{"id": "9685744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9685744", "title": "2006 Arctic Winter Games", "text": "2006 Arctic Winter Games\n\nApproximately 2,000 athletes, coaches, team staff and officials participated in the 2006 Arctic Winter Games on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska in the United States. The 2006 games took place from March 5 through March 11. Events were held mostly in the larger towns of Soldotna and Kenai, along with Homer (curling) and the Alyeska Ski Resort in Girdwood (alpine skiing and snowboarding.) Soldotna, Kenai, Homer, and the town of Seward also hosted cultural events. This was the fifth time Alaska had hosted the games.\n\n\nThe 2008 Arctic Winter Games were held in Yellowknife, Northwest Territories.\n\nCompetition was held in alpine skiing, badminton, basketball, biathlon, cross-country skiing, curling, Dene games (see Dene), dog mushing, figure skating, gymnastics, ice hockey, indoor soccer, Inuit games (see Inuit), short track speed skating, snowboarding, snowshoe biathlon, snowshoeing (see Snowshoe), speed skating, table tennis, volleyball, and wrestling.\n\n"}
{"id": "4467309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4467309", "title": "2006 Central American and Caribbean Games", "text": "2006 Central American and Caribbean Games\n\nThe 20th edition of the Central American and Caribbean Games was held in the city of Cartagena, Colombia. The tournament began on July 15 and ended on July 30.\n\n\nThere were a total of 39 sports at the games. \n\n\n<br>\n\n \n"}
{"id": "58902291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58902291", "title": "2018 African Women's Handball Championship", "text": "2018 African Women's Handball Championship\n\nThe 2018 Asian Women's Handball Championship is the 23rd edition of the African Women's Handball Championship, which takes place from 2 to 12 December 2018 in Brazzaville, Congo. The tournament is being held under the aegis of African Handball Confederation and acts as the African qualifying tournament for the 2019 World Women's Handball Championship.\n\nThe draw was held on 11 August 2018.\n\nThe schedule was announced on 19 November 2018.\n\n\"All times are local (UTC+1).\"\n"}
{"id": "1527079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1527079", "title": "678 BC", "text": "678 BC\n\nThe year 678 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 76 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 678 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n"}
{"id": "8970607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8970607", "title": "Argentino hasta la muerte", "text": "Argentino hasta la muerte\n\nArgentino hasta la muerte (English language: Argentine Until Death) is a 1971 Argentine drama film set during the Paraguayan War (1864-1870), directed and written by Fernando Ayala with Félix Luna. The film premiered on 6 May 1971 in Buenos Aires.\n\n"}
{"id": "39074547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39074547", "title": "Calf 269", "text": "Calf 269\n\nCalf 269 is a bull (still alive today) who was rescued as a calf by anonymous activists, days before his planned slaughter. He was born at an Israeli facility in the vicinity of Azor, a town on the outskirts of Tel Aviv. The slaughter was scheduled for June 2013. He is described as sweet-tempered and white-headed, and his ear carried a tag numbered 269, indicating he was destined for slaughter. The Israeli protests regarding the calf were followed by protests in the U.K. and other places across the world. The protests aimed at conveying that animal parts eaten as food by humans once belonged to a living individual, who lived a tortured life and faced a brutal death, after which his or her carcass was processed into human food. The significance of the event led to the creation of \"269 life\", an animal liberation movement founded in October 2012.\n\nOn the occasion of World Farm Animals Day, (Gandhi's birthday) 2 October 2012, two Israelis, Zohar Gorelik and Sasha Boojor, and one Russian activist, Oleg Ozerov, had the number 269 branded on their skin with a hot-iron branding tool. Haaretz reports that this branding was an act of fellowship with Calf 269. The branding incident took place at Tel Aviv's Rabin square. The action is considered an attempt to bring to light the mistreatment of animals in the farming sector. According to Haaretz the treatment of animals would require terminologies applied to the Holocaust in order to adequately describe the situation. According to Netta Ahituv writing in the Haaretz, the calf's story has inspired a worldwide tattoo movement. At least a thousand individuals have had themselves branded or tattooed with the number 269. In a testimony a tattooed individual who was a tow truck driver narrated that the tattoo reminded one passenger of his grandmother's stories of German concentration camps. The website \"269life.com\" was created by Boojor following this protest. The protests were an attempt to end the anonymity of millions of animals butchered for human consumption. The website declares, \"This anonymous male calf will be forever immortalized on our bodies, and hopefully this message of solidarity will somehow bring a new way of looking at non-human animals.\"\n\nIn the U.K., campaigners, motivated by this action of the Israelis, decided to brand themselves on their chest with the number 269. This took place in front of a Kentucky Fried Chicken outlet in Leeds a day before their scheduled protest at the Leeds city centre. One protester was jailed, the police allegedly took away cameras and erased memory cards. A protester who was interviewed justified the protest as a reaction to the extreme cruelty perpetrated by the dairy industry such as shooting calves at birth. Protests in London were organised by Becky Folkard. Folkard said that although the protest might be considered extreme, other methods such as fastening oneself to railings and stopping horses by standing in their way were used by women to force authorities to give them a right to vote. PETA's spokesperson in a statement of support pointed that the suffering endured by non-human animals such as cows, chickens or pigs when they are branded, have their testicles, beaks or horns cut, is no less than that of humans in a similar situation. Folkard said that the protests would be considered worthwhile even if one person turned vegan in reaction. Folkard's planned protests have been described as a disturbing community agitation opposing barbarity inflicted on industrial dairy animals.\n\nOn September 26, 2015 another hot-iron branding was held in Birmingham.\n\nJoseph Keating, life-stock adviser of the National Farmers Union is quoted in a Guardian story as expressing surprise in response to the English protests. According to Keating, branding of animals has been banned in England for many years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23450837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23450837", "title": "Collapse of Lotus Riverside Block 7", "text": "Collapse of Lotus Riverside Block 7\n\nThe collapse of Block 7 at Lotus Riverside (a 13-story apartment building) in 2009 is an accident that killed one person.\n\nLotus Riverside () is a residential apartment complex located in Minhang District, Shanghai, China.\n\nOn June 27, 2009 at 5:30 Am UTC+8, Block 7, one of the eleven 13-story buildings of the apartment complex, collapsed, killing one worker named Xiao Dekun.\n\nAccording to the Wall Street Journal, which referenced Shanghai Daily:\n\n\"According to Shanghai Daily, initial investigations attribute the accident to the excavations for the construction of a garage under the collapsed building. Large quantities of earth were removed and dumped in a landfill next to a nearby creek; the weight of the earth caused the river bank to collapse, which, in turn, allowed water to seep into the ground, creating a muddy foundation for the building that toppled.\"\n"}
{"id": "16547955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16547955", "title": "Countersurveillance", "text": "Countersurveillance\n\nCountersurveillance refers to measures undertaken to prevent surveillance, including covert surveillance. Countersurveillance may include electronic methods such as bug sweeping, the process of detecting surveillance devices, including covert listening devices, visual surveillance devices as well as countersurveillance software to thwart unwanted attempts by cyber crooks to access computing and mobile devices for various nefarious reasons (e.g. theft of financial, personal or corporate data). More often than not, countersurveillance will employ a set of actions (countermeasures) that, when followed, reduce the risk of surveillance. Countersurveillance should not be confused with sousveillance (inverse surveillance) as the latter does not necessarily aim to prevent or reduce surveillance.\n\nMost bugs emit some form of electromagnetic radiation, usually radio waves. The standard counter-measure for bugs is therefore to \"sweep\" for them with a receiver, looking for the radio emissions. Professional sweeping devices are very expensive. Low-tech sweeping devices are available through amateur electrical magazines, or they may be built from circuit designs on the Internet.\n\nSweeping is not foolproof. Advanced bugs can be remotely operated to switch on and off, and some even rapidly switch frequencies according to a predetermined pattern in order to make location with sweepers more difficult. A bug that has run out of power may not show up during a sweep, which means that the sweeper will not be alerted to the surveillance. Also some devices have no active parts, an example is the Great Seal given to the US Ambassador to Moscow which hid a device (the Thing).\n\nAmidst concerns over privacy, software countermeasures have emerged to prevent cyber-intrusion, the un-authorized act of spying, snooping, and stealing personally identifiable information or other proprietary assets (e.g. images) through cyberspace.\n\nPopular interest in Countersurveillance and has been growing given media coverage of privacy violations: \n\nMost surveillance, and most countersurveillance, involves human rather than electronic methods since people are generally more vulnerable and more capable of reacting creatively to surveillance situations.\n\nHuman countermeasures include:\n\nSuch activities make it harder to track surveillance subjects. Following steady, easy-to-predict schedules before employing aforementioned countermeasures may make the surveillance detail complacent and thus easier to lose.\n\nTSCM (technical surveillance counter-measures) is the original United States Federal government abbreviation denoting the process of bug-sweeping or electronic countersurveillance. It is related to ELINT, SIGINT and electronic countermeasures (ECM).\n\nThe United States Department of Defense defines a TSCM survey as a service provided by qualified personnel to detect the presence of technical surveillance devices and hazards and to identify technical security weaknesses that could aid in the conduct of a technical penetration of the surveyed facility. A TSCM survey will provide a professional evaluation of the facility's technical security posture and normally will consist of a thorough visual, electronic, and physical examination in and about the surveyed facility.\n\nThis definition is however lacking some of the technical scope involved. COMSEC (communications security), ITSEC (information technology security) and physical security are also a major part of the work in the modern environment. The advent of multimedia devices and remote control technologies allow huge scope for removal of massive amounts of data in very secure environments by the staff employed within, with or without their knowledge.\n\nTechnical Surveillance Countermeasures (TSCM) can best be defined as The systematic physical and electronic examination of a designated area by properly trained, qualified and equipped persons in an attempt to discover electronic eavesdropping devices, security hazards or security weaknesses.\n\nMost bugs transmit information, whether data, video, or voice, through the air by using radio waves. The standard counter-measure for bugs of this nature is to search for such an attack with a radio frequency (RF) receiver. Lab and even field-quality receivers are very expensive and a good, working knowledge of RF theory is needed to operate the equipment effectively. \nCounter-measures like burst transmission and spread spectrum make detection more difficult.\n\nThe timing of detection surveys and location scans is critical to success, and varies with the type of location being scanned. For permanent facilities, scans and surveys must take place during working hours to detect remotely switchable devices that are turned off during non-working hours to defeat detection.\n\nInstead of transmitting conversations, bugs may record them. Bugs that do not emit radio waves are very difficult to detect, though there are a number of options for detecting such bugs.\n\nVery sensitive equipment could be used to look for magnetic fields, or for the characteristic electrical noise emitted by the computerized technology in digital tape recorders; however, if the place being monitored has many computers, photocopiers, or other pieces of electrical equipment installed, it may become very difficult. Items such as audio recorders can be very difficult to detect using electronic equipment. Most of these items will be discovered through a physical search.\n\nAnother method is using very sensitive thermal cameras to detect residual heat of a bug, or power supply, that may be concealed in a wall or ceiling. The device is found by locating a hot spot the device generates that can be detected by the thermal camera.\n\nA method does exist to find hidden recorders, as these typically use a well known frequency for the clock which can never be totally shielded. A combination of existing techniques and resonance sweeps can often pick up even a defunct or \"dead\" bug in this way by measuring recent changes in the electromagnetic spectrum.\n\nTechnology most commonly used for a bug sweep includes but is not limited to:\n\n\nIn 2011, Defence Minister Peter MacKay authorized a program to search telephone and internet usage for suspicious activities. This program searches for and collects meta-data of Canadians across the country.\n\nThere are minimal anti-surveillance movements specifically targeted in Canada at present.\n\nTransparent Lives is a prominent Canadian organization that aims to \"demonstrate dramatically just how visible we have all become to myriad organizations and what this means—for better or for worse—for how we conduct our everyday lives.\" \n\nAmnesty International runs a campaign called #UnfollowMe that \"calls on governments to ban mass surveillance and unlawful intelligence sharing\", inspired by Edward Snowden leaking thousands of NSA documents that revealed information about mass surveillance in the U.S. This campaign is active worldwide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19005719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19005719", "title": "Cyberstalking", "text": "Cyberstalking\n\nCyberstalking is the use of the Internet or other electronic means to stalk or harass an individual, group, or organization. It may include false accusations, defamation, slander and libel. It may also include monitoring, identity theft, threats, vandalism, solicitation for sex, or gathering information that may be used to threaten, embarrass or harass.\n\nCyberstalking is often accompanied by realtime or offline stalking. In many jurisdictions, such as California, both are criminal offenses. Both are motivated by a desire to control, intimidate or influence a victim. A stalker may be an online stranger or a person whom the target knows. He may be anonymous and solicit involvement of other people online who do not even know the target.\n\nCyberstalking is a criminal offense under various state anti-stalking, slander and harassment laws. A conviction can result in a restraining order, probation, or criminal penalties against the assailant, including jail.\n\nThere have been a number of attempts by experts and legislators to define cyberstalking. It is generally understood to be the use of the Internet or other electronic means to stalk or harass an individual, a group, or an organization. Cyberstalking is a form of cyberbullying; the terms are often used interchangeably in the media. Both may include false accusations, defamation, slander and libel. Cyberstalking may also include monitoring, identity theft, threats, vandalism, solicitation for sex, or gathering information that may be used to threaten or harass. Cyberstalking is often accompanied by real-time or offline stalking. Both forms of stalking may be criminal offenses.\n\nStalking is a continuous process, consisting of a series of actions, each of which may be entirely legal in itself. Technology ethics professor Lambèr Royakkers defines cyberstalking as perpetrated by someone without a current relationship with the victim. About the abusive effects of cyberstalking, he writes that:\n[Stalking] is a form of mental assault, in which the perpetrator repeatedly, unwantedly, and disruptively breaks into the life-world of the victim, with whom he has no relationship (or no longer has), with motives that are directly or indirectly traceable to the affective sphere. Moreover, the separated acts that make up the intrusion cannot by themselves cause the mental abuse, but do taken together (cumulative effect).\n\nIt is important to draw a distinction between cyber-trolling and cyber-stalking. Research has shown that actions that can be perceived to be harmless as a one-off can be considered to be trolling, whereas if it is part of a persistent campaign then it can be considered stalking.\n\nCyberstalking author Alexis Moore separates cyberstalking from identity theft, which is financially motivated. Her definition, which was also used by the Republic of the Philippines in their legal description, is as follows:\nCyberAngels has written about how to identify cyberstalking:\n\nWhen identifying cyberstalking \"in the field,\" and particularly when considering whether to report it to any kind of legal authority, the following features or combination of features can be considered to characterize a true stalking situation: malice, premeditation, repetition, distress, obsession, vendetta, no legitimate purpose, personally directed, disregarded warnings to stop, harassment and threats.\n\nA number of key factors have been identified in cyberstalking:\n\n\nAccording to \"Law Enforcement Technology\", cyberstalking has increased exponentially with the growth of new technology and new ways to stalk victims. \"Disgruntled employees pose as their bosses to post explicit messages on social network sites; spouses use GPS to track their mates' every move. Even police and prosecutors find themselves at risk, as gang members and other organized criminals find out where they live — often to intimidate them into dropping a case.\"\n\nIn January 2009, the Bureau of Justice Statistics in the United States released the study \"Stalking Victimization in the United States,\" which was sponsored by the Office on Violence Against Women. The report, based on supplemental data from the National Crime Victimization Survey, showed that one in four stalking victims had been cyberstalked as well, with the perpetrators using internet-based services such as email, instant messaging, GPS, or spyware. The final report stated that approximately 1.2 million victims had stalkers who used technology to find them. The Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network (RAINN), in Washington D.C. has released statistics that there are 3.4 million stalking victims each year in the United States. Of those, one in four reported experiencing cyberstalking.\n\nAccording to Robin M. Kowalski, a social psychologist at Clemson University, cyberbullying has been shown to cause higher levels of anxiety and depression for victims than normal bullying. Kowalksi states that much of this stems from the anonymity of the perpetrators, which is a common feature of cyberstalking as well. According to a study by Kowalksi, of 3,700 bullied middle-school students, a quarter had been subjected to a form of harassment online.\n\nAccording to Joey Rushing, a District Attorney of Franklin County, Alabama, there isn't a single definition of a cyberstalker - they can be either strangers to the victim or have a former/present relationship. \"[Cyberstalkers] come in all shapes, sizes, ages and backgrounds. They patrol Web sites looking for an opportunity to take advantage of people.\"\n\nHarassment and stalking because of gender online is common, and can include rape threats and other threats of violence, as well as the posting of the victim's personal information. It is blamed for limiting victims' activities online or driving them offline entirely, thereby impeding their participation in online life and undermining their autonomy, dignity, identity, and opportunities.\n\nCyberstalking of intimate partners is the online harassment of a current or former romantic partner. It is a form of domestic violence, and experts say its purpose is to control the victim in order to encourage social isolation and create dependency. Harassers may send repeated insulting or threatening e-mails to their victims, monitor or disrupt their victims' e-mail use, and use the victim's account to send e-mails to others posing as the victim or to purchase goods or services the victim does not want. They may also use the Internet to research and compile personal information about the victim, to use in order to harass him or her.\n\nProfiling of stalkers shows that almost always they stalk someone they know or, via delusion, think they know, as is the case with stalkers of celebrities or public persons in which the stalkers feel they know the celebrity even though the celebrity does not know them. As part of the risk they take for being in the public eye, celebrities and public figures are often targets of lies or made-up stories in tabloids as well as by stalkers, some even seeming to be fans.\n\nIn one noted case in 2011, actress Patricia Arquette quit Facebook after alleged cyberstalking. In her last post, Arquette explained that her security warned her Facebook friends to never accept friend requests from people they do not actually know. Arquette stressed that just because people seemed to be fans did not mean they were safe. The media issued a statement that Arquette planned to communicate with fans exclusively through her Twitter account in the future.\n\nWeb 2.0 technologies have enabled online groups of anonymous people to self-organize to target individuals with online defamation, threats of violence and technology-based attacks. These include publishing lies and doctored photographs, threats of rape and other violence, posting sensitive personal information about victims, e-mailing damaging statements about victims to their employers, and manipulating search engines to make damaging material about the victim more prominent. Victims frequently respond by adopting pseudonyms or going offline entirely.\n\nExperts attribute the destructive nature of anonymous online mobs to group dynamics, saying that groups with homogeneous views tend to become more extreme. As members reinforce each others' beliefs, they fail to see themselves as individuals and lose a sense of personal responsibility for their destructive acts. In doing so they dehumanize their victims, becoming more aggressive when they believe they are supported by authority figures. Internet service providers and website owners are sometimes blamed for not speaking out against this type of harassment.\n\nA notable example of online mob harassment was the experience of American software developer and blogger Kathy Sierra. In 2007 a group of anonymous individuals attacked Sierra, threatening her with rape and strangulation, publishing her home address and Social Security number, and posting doctored photographs of her. Frightened, Sierra cancelled her speaking engagements and shut down her blog, writing \"I will never feel the same. I will never be the same.\"\n\nCorporate cyberstalking is when a company harasses an individual online, or an individual or group of individuals harasses an organization. Motives for corporate cyberstalking are ideological, or include a desire for financial gain or revenge.\n\nMental profiling of digital criminals has identified psychological and social factors that motivate stalkers as: envy; pathological obsession (professional or sexual); unemployment or failure with own job or life; intention to intimidate and cause others to feel inferior; the stalker is delusional and believes he/she \"knows\" the target; the stalker wants to instill fear in a person to justify his/her status; belief they can get away with it(anonymity); intimidation for financial advantage or business competition; revenge over perceived or imagined rejection.\n\nPreliminary work by Leroy McFarlane and Paul Bocij has identified four types of cyberstalkers: the vindictive cyberstalkers noted for the ferocity of their attacks; the composed cyberstalker whose motive is to annoy; the intimate cyberstalker who attempts to form a relationship with the victim but turns on them if rebuffed; and collective cyberstalkers, groups with a motive. According to Antonio Chacón Medina, author of \"Una nueva cara de Internet, El acoso\" (\"A new face of the Internet: stalking\"), the general profile of the harasser is cold, with little or no respect for others. The stalker is a predator who can wait patiently until vulnerable victims appear, such as women or children, or may enjoy pursuing a particular person, whether personally familiar to them or unknown. The harasser enjoys and demonstrates their power to pursue and psychologically damage the victim.\n\nCyberstalkers find their victims by using search engines, online forums, bulletin and discussion boards, chat rooms, and more recently, through social networking sites, such as MySpace, Facebook, Bebo, Friendster, Twitter, and Indymedia, a media outlet known for self-publishing. They may engage in live chat harassment or flaming or they may send electronic viruses and unsolicited e-mails. Cyberstalkers may research individuals to feed their obsessions and curiosity. Conversely, the acts of cyberstalkers may become more intense, such as repeatedly instant messaging their targets.\n\nMore commonly they will post defamatory or derogatory statements about their stalking target on web pages, message boards, and in guest books designed to get a reaction or response from their victim, thereby initiating contact. In some cases, they have been known to create fake blogs in the name of the victim containing defamatory or pornographic content.\n\nWhen prosecuted, many stalkers have unsuccessfully attempted to justify their behavior based on their use of public forums, as opposed to direct contact. Once they get a reaction from the victim, they will typically attempt to track or follow the victim's internet activity. Classic cyberstalking behavior includes the tracing of the victim's IP address in an attempt to verify their home or place of employment.\n\nSome cyberstalking situations do evolve into physical stalking, and a victim may experience abusive and excessive phone calls, vandalism, threatening or obscene mail, trespassing, and physical assault. Moreover, many physical stalkers will use cyberstalking as another method of harassing their victims.\n\nA 2007 study led by Paige Padgett from the University of Texas Health Science Center found that there was a false degree of safety assumed by women looking for love online.\n\nLegislation on cyberstalking varies from country to country. Cyberstalking and cyberbullying are relatively new phenomena, but that does not mean that crimes committed through the network are not punishable under legislation drafted for that purpose. Although there are often existing laws that prohibit stalking or harassment in a general sense, legislators sometimes believe that such laws are inadequate or do not go far enough, and thus bring forward new legislation to address this perceived shortcoming. In the United States, for example, nearly every state has laws that address cyberstalking, cyberbullying, or both.\n\nIn countries such as the US, in practice, there is little legislative difference between the concepts of \"cyberbullying\" and \"cyberstalking.\" The primary distinction is one of age; if adults are involved, the act is usually termed \"cyberstalking,\" while among children it is usually referred to as \"cyberbullying.\" However, this distinction is one of semantics, and many laws treat \"bullying\" and \"stalking\" as much the same issue.\n\nIn Australia, the Stalking Amendment Act (1999) includes the use of any form of technology to harass a target as forms of \"criminal stalking.\"\n\nIn 2012, there was a high-profile investigation into the death of Amanda Todd, a young Canadian student who'd been blackmailed and stalked online before committing suicide. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police were criticized in the media for not naming one of her alleged stalkers as a person of interest.\n\nIn the Fifteenth Congress of the Republic of the Philippines, a cyberstalking bill was introduced by Senator Manny Villar. The result was to \"urge the Senate Committees on Science and Technology, and Public Information and Mass Media to conduct an inquiry, in aid of legislation, on the increasing occurrence of cyber stalking cases and the modus operandi adopted in the internet to perpetuate crimes with the end in view of formulating legislation and policy measures geared towards curbing cyber stalking and other cyber crimes and protect online users in the country. \"\n\nCyberstalking is a criminal offense under American anti-stalking, slander, and harassment laws.\n\nA conviction can result in a restraining order, probation, or criminal penalties against the assailant, including jail. Cyberstalking specifically has been addressed in recent U.S. federal law. For example, the Violence Against Women Act, passed in 2000, made cyberstalking a part of the federal interstate stalking statute. The current US Federal Anti-Cyber-Stalking law is found at .\n\nStill, there remains a lack of federal legislation to specifically address cyberstalking, leaving the majority of legislative at the state level. A few states have both stalking and harassment statutes that criminalize threatening and unwanted electronic communications. The first anti-stalking law was enacted in California in 1990, and while all fifty states soon passed anti-stalking laws, by 2009 only 14 of them had laws specifically addressing \"high-tech stalking.\" The first U.S. cyberstalking law went into effect in 1999 in California. Other states have laws other than harassment or anti-stalking statutes that prohibit misuse of computer communications and e-mail, while others have passed laws containing broad language that can be interpreted to include cyberstalking behaviors, such as in their harassment or stalking legislation.\n\nSentences can range from 18 months in prison and a $10,000 fine for a fourth-degree charge to ten years in prison and a $150,000 fine for a second-degree charge.\n\n\nWhile some laws only address online harassment of children, there are laws that protect adult cyberstalking victims. While some sites specialize in laws that protect victims age 18 and under, current and pending cyberstalking-related United States federal and state laws offer help to victims of all ages.\n\nMost stalking laws require that the perpetrator make a credible threat of violence against the victim; others include threats against the victim's immediate family; and still others require the alleged stalker's course of conduct constitute an implied threat. While some conduct involving annoying or menacing behavior might fall short of illegal stalking, such behavior may be a prelude to stalking and violence and should be treated seriously.\n\nOnline identity stealth blurs the line on infringement of the rights of would-be victims to identify their perpetrators. There is a debate on how internet use can be traced without infringing on protected civil liberties.\n\nThere have been a number of high-profile legal cases in the United States related to cyberstalking, many of which have involved the suicides of young students. In thousands of other cases, charges either weren't brought for the cyber harassment or were unsuccessful in obtaining convictions. As in all legal instances, much depends on public sympathy towards the victim, the quality of legal representation and other factors that can greatly influence the outcome of the crime – even if it will be considered a crime.\n\nIn the case of a fourteen-year-old student in Michigan, for instance, she pressed charges against her alleged rapist, which resulted in her being cyberstalked and cyberbullied by fellow students. After her suicide in 2010 all charges were dropped against the man who allegedly raped her, on the basis that the only witness was dead. This is the despite the fact that statutory rape charges could have been pressed.\n\nIn another case of cyberstalking, college student Dharun Ravi secretly filmed his roommate's sexual liaison with another man, then posted it online. After the victim committed suicide, Ravi was convicted in of bias intimidation and invasion of privacy in \"New Jersey v. Dharun Ravi\". In 2012 he was sentenced to 30 days in jail, more than $11,000 in restitution and three years of probation. The judge ruled that he believes Ravi acted out of \"colossal insensitivity, not hatred.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28802705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28802705", "title": "East Pakistan Renaissance Society", "text": "East Pakistan Renaissance Society\n\nThe East Pakistan Renaissance Society was a political organisation formed to articulate and promote culturally and intellectually the idea for a separate Muslim state for Indian Muslims and specifically for the Muslims of Bengal. The organisation's founders and leaders included Abul Kalam Shamsuddin, the society president, Habibullah Bahar Chowdhury and Mujibur Rahman Khan.\n\nThe \"Two-Nation Theory\", which argued that the Hindus and Muslims of India were not a common nation and could not live together as a nation, had been propagated by Muslim politicians and intellectuals such as Sir Muhammad Iqbal, Choudhary Rahmat Ali and Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the president of the All India Muslim League. The demand for a separate state for Indian Muslims took definite shape when the All India Muslim League adopted the Lahore Resolution (also known as the Pakistan Resolution) on 23 March 1940. The resolution called for the Muslim-majority provinces of British India to be constituted as separate, independent states – it did not specify a single state.\nAt a meeting held on 30 August 1942, at the offices of the Azad newspaper in Kolkata, Bengali Muslim activists decided to form the East Pakistan Renaissance Society as a platform to advocate the idea of a Muslim state on a cultural and intellectual basis. The society held regular weekly meetings where articles would be presented and different issues discussed. Despite the focus on Islam, the meetings were not restricted to Muslims. Manabendranath Roy delivered a speech on \"Pakistan and Democracy\", which highlighted the inevitability of self-rule for Indian Muslims. In September 1944, Mujibur Rahman Khan along with economist M Sadeq, published a booklet, \"Eastern Pakistan: Its Population, Delimitation and Economics\" which This contained a description of the government, economy, population, geographic boundary and security of a future state of East Pakistan.\n\nThe society held its first council at the Islamia College in Kolkata in July 1944. Among those present at the inaugural occasion were Khwaja Nazimuddin, Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy, Hasan Suhrawardy, Nurul Amin, Mohammad Akram Khan, A K Fazlul Huq, Abul Quasem, Maulvi Tamizuddin Khan, Shahadat Hossain, Golam Mostofa, S Wajid Ali, Abu Jafar Shamsuddin, Abul Hussain, Golam Kuddus, Subhas Mukhopadhyay, Gopal Halder.\n\nThe Muslim League and most other advocates of Pakistan had demanded a single state of Pakistan consisting of the British Indian provinces of Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (then Northwest Frontier Province), Sindh, Balochistan and Bengal, and sought the Urdu language to be the only official language and \"lingua franca\" of Muslims. However, the East Pakistan Renaissance Society not only argued that Muslims were a separate nation from Hindus, it also advocated that the Bengali Muslims were distinct from the Muslims of other parts of India, on an ethnic, cultural and geographical basis. Unlike religion, the society argued that ethnicity and cultural differences cannot cross geographic boundaries. The society and its supporters in the Bengal Muslim League asserted that Bengali Muslims should constitute an independent state, as an \"Eastern Pakistan\" rather than part of a single state of Pakistan. The society asserted the importance of the Bengali culture and language, which many advocates of Pakistan criticised as being \"Hinduised\" and \"Sanskritised.\"\n\nThe society dissolved after the partition of India in 1947, which also partitioned Bengal to create the Muslim-majority East Bengal (also known as East Pakistan), which became part of Pakistan; Hindu-majority West Bengal and Assam became part of India. Several of the society's leaders were leading activists in the Bengali language movement (1953–1956), which was a mass struggle in East Pakistan for the recognition of the Bengali language as the second official language of Pakistan, along with Urdu.\n"}
{"id": "1595817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1595817", "title": "Energy demand management", "text": "Energy demand management\n\nEnergy demand management, also known as demand-side management (DSM) or demand-side response (DSR), is the modification of consumer demand for energy through various methods such as financial incentives and behavioral change through education. \n\nUsually, the goal of demand-side management is to encourage the consumer to use less energy during peak hours, or to move the time of energy use to off-peak times such as nighttime and weekends. Peak demand management does not necessarily decrease total energy consumption, but could be expected to reduce the need for investments in networks and/or power plants for meeting peak demands. An example is the use of energy storage units to store energy during off-peak hours and discharge them during peak hours. A newer application for DSM is to aid grid operators in balancing intermittent generation from wind and solar units, particularly when the timing and magnitude of energy demand does not coincide with the renewable generation.\n\nThe American electric power industry originally relied heavily on foreign energy imports, whether in the form of consumable electricity or fossil fuels that were then used to produce electricity. During the time of the energy crises in the 1970s, the federal government passed the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA), hoping to reduce dependence on foreign oil and to promote energy efficiency and alternative energy sources. This act forced utilities to obtain the cheapest possible power from independent power producers, which in turn promoted renewables and encouraged the utility to reduce the amount of power they need, hence pushing forward agendas for energy efficiency and demand management.\n\nThe term DSM was coined following the time of the 1973 energy crisis and 1979 energy crisis. Governments of many countries mandated performance of various programs for demand management. An early example is the National Energy Conservation Policy Act of 1978 in the U.S., preceded by similar actions in California and Wisconsin. Demand-side management was introduced publicly by Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) in the 1980s. Nowadays, DSM technologies become increasingly feasible due to the integration of information and communications technology and the power system, new terms such as integrated demand-side management (IDSM), or smart grid.\n\nElectricity use can vary dramatically on short and medium time frames, depending on current weather patterns. Generally the wholesale electricity system adjusts to changing demand by dispatching additional or less generation. However, during peak periods, the additional generation is usually supplied by less efficient (\"peaking\") sources. Unfortunately, the instantaneous financial and environmental cost of using these \"peaking\" sources is not necessarily reflected in the retail pricing system. In addition, the ability or willingness of electricity consumers to adjust to price signals by altering demand (elasticity of demand) may be low, particularly over short time frames. In many markets, consumers (particularly retail customers) do not face real-time pricing at all, but pay rates based on average annual costs or other constructed prices.\n\nEnergy demand management activities attempt to bring the electricity demand and supply closer to a perceived optimum, and help give electricity end users benefits for reducing their demand. In the modern system, the integrated approach to demand-side management is becoming increasingly common. IDSM automatically sends signals to end-use systems to shed load depending on system conditions. This allows for very precise tuning of demand to ensure that it matches supply at all times, reduces capital expenditures for the utility. Critical system conditions could be peak times, or in areas with levels of variable renewable energy, during times when demand must be adjusted upward to avoid over-generation or downward to help with ramping needs.\n\nIn general, adjustments to demand can occur in various ways: through responses to price signals, such as permanent differential rates for evening and day times or occasional highly priced usage days, behavioral changes achieved through home area networks, automated controls such as with remotely controlled air-conditioners, or with permanent load adjustments with energy efficient appliances.\n\nDemand for any commodity can be modified by actions of market players and government (regulation and taxation). Energy demand management implies actions that influence demand for energy. DSM was originally adopted in electricity, but today it is applied widely to utilities including water and gas as well.\n\nReducing energy demand is contrary to what both energy suppliers and governments have been doing during most of the modern industrial history. Whereas real prices of various energy forms have been decreasing during most of the industrial era, due to economies of scale and technology, the expectation for the future is the opposite. Previously, it was not unreasonable to promote energy use as more copious and cheaper energy sources could be anticipated in the future or the supplier had installed excess capacity that would be made more profitable by increased consumption.\n\nIn centrally planned economies subsidizing energy was one of the main economic development tools. Subsidies to the energy supply industry are still common in some countries.\n\nContrary to the historical situation, energy prices and availability are expected to deteriorate. Governments and other public actors, if not the energy suppliers themselves, are tending to employ energy demand measures that will increase the efficiency of energy consumption.\n\n\nBroadly, demand side management can be classified into four categories: national scale, utility scale, community scale, and individual household scale.\n\nEnergy efficiency improvement is one of the most important demand side management strategies. Efficiency improvements can be implemented nationally through legislation and standards in housing, building, appliances, transport, machinaries etc.\n\nDuring peak demand time, utilities are able to control storage water heaters, pool pumps and air conditioners in large areas to reduce peak demand, e.g. Australia and Switzerland. One of the common technologies is ripple control: high frequency signal (e.g. 1000 Hz) is superimposed to normal electricity (50 or 60 Hz) to switch on or off devices. \nIn more service based economy, such as Australia, electricity network peak demand often occurs in the late afternoon to early evening (4pm to 8pm). Residential and commercial demand are the most significant part in these types of peak demand . Therefore, it makes great sense for utilities (electricity network distributors) to manage residential storage water heaters, pool pumps and air conditioners.\n\nOther names can be neighborhood, precinct, or district. Community central heating systems have been existing for many decades in regions of cold winters. Similarly, peak demand in summer peak regions need to be managed, e.g. Texas & Florida in the U.S., Queensland and New South Wales in Australia. Demand side management can be implemented in community scale to reduce peak demand for heating or cooling.Another aspect is to achieve Net Zero Energy Building or community.\n\nManaging energy, peak demand and bills in community level may be more feasible and viable, because of the collective purchasing power, the bargaining power, more options in energy efficiency or storage , more flexibility and diversity in generating and consuming energy at different times, e.g. using PV to compensate day time consumption or for energy storage.\n\nIn areas of Australia, more than 30% (2016) of households have rooftop photo-voltaic systems. It is useful for them to use free energy from the sun to reduce energy import from the grid. Further, demand side management can be helpful when a systematic approach is considered: the operation of photovoltaic, air conditioner, battery energy storage systems, storage water heaters, building performance and energy efficiency measures.\n\nThe utility companies in the state of Queensland, Australia have devices fitted onto certain household appliances such as air conditioners or into household meters to control water heater, pool pumps etc. These devices would allow energy companies to remotely cycle the use of these items during peak hours. Their plan also includes improving the efficiency of energy-using items, encouraging the use of oil instead of electricity, and giving financial incentives to consumers who use electricity during off-peak hours, when it is less expensive for energy companies to produce.\n\nAnother example is that with demand side management, Southeast Queensland households can use electricity from rooftop photo-voltaic system to heat up water.\n\nIn 2008, Toronto Hydro, the monopoly energy distributor of Ontario, had over 40,000 people signed up to have remote devices attached to air conditioners which energy companies use to offset spikes in demand. Spokeswoman Tanya Bruckmueller says that this program can reduce demand by 40 megawatts during emergency situations.\n\nCalifornia has several demand side management programs, including automated and critical peak pricing demand response programs for commercial and industrial customers as well as residential consumers, energy efficiency rebates, non-event based time-of-use pricing, special electric vehicle charging rates, and distributed storage. Some of these programs are slated to be added into the wholesale electricity market to be bid as \"supply side\" resources that can be dispatched by the system operator. Demand side management in the state will be increasingly important as the level of renewable generation approaches 33% by 2020, and is expected to be increased beyond that level in the long-term.\n\nThe Aloca's Warrick Operation is participating in MISO as a qualified demand response resource, which means it is providing demand response in terms of energy, spinning reserve, and regulation service.\n\nDemand-side management can apply to electricity system based on thermal power plants or to systems where renewable energy, as hydroelectricity, is predominant but with a complementary thermal generation, for instance, in Brazil.\n\nIn Brazil’s case, despite the generation of hydroelectric power corresponds to more than 80% of the total, to achieve a practical balance in the generation system, the energy generated by hydroelectric plants supplies the consumption below the peak demand. Peak generation is supplied by the use of fossil-fuel power plants. In 2008, Brazilian consumers paid more than U$1 billion for complementary thermoelectric generation not previously programmed.\n\nIn Brazil, the consumer pays for all the investment to provide energy, even if a plant sits idle. For most fossil-fuel thermal plants, the consumers pay for the \"fuels\" and others operation costs only when these plants generate energy. The energy, per unit generated, is more expensive from thermal plants than from hydroelectric. Only a few of the Brazilian's thermoelectric plants use natural gas, so they pollute significantly more. The power generated to meet the peak demand has higher costs—both investment and operating costs—and the pollution has a significant environmental cost and potentially, financial and social liability for its use. Thus, the expansion and the operation of the current system is not as efficient as it could be using demand side management. The consequence of this inefficiency is an increase in energy tariffs ... passed on to the consumers.\n\nMoreover, because electric energy is generated and consumed almost instantaneously, all the facilities, as transmission lines and distribution nets, are built for peak consumption. During the non-peak periods their full capacity is not utilized.\n\nThe reduction of peak consumption can benefit the efficiency of the electric systems, like the Brazilian system, in some senses: as deferring new investments in distribution and transmission networks, and reducing the necessity of complementary thermal power operation during peak periods, which can diminish both the payment for investment in new power plants to supply only during the peak period and the environmental impact associated with greenhouse gas emission.\n\nSome people argue that demand-side management has been ineffective because it has often resulted in higher utility costs for consumers and less profit for utilities.\n\nOne of the main goals of demand side management is to be able to charge the consumer based on the true price of the utilities at that time. If consumers could be charged less for using electricity during off-peak hours, and more during peak hours, then supply and demand would theoretically encourage the consumer to use less electricity during peak hours, thus achieving the main goal of demand side management.\n\nAnother problem of DSM is privacy, as consumers have to provide some information about their usage of electricity to their electricity company. This is less of a problem now as people are used to suppliers noting purchasing patterns through mechanisms such as \"loyalty cards\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927905", "title": "European Championship (auto racing)", "text": "European Championship (auto racing)\n\nThe European Drivers' Championship was an annual competition in auto racing that existed prior to the establishment of the Formula One world championship in 1950. It was established in 1931 and ran until the end of 1939 with a hiatus from 1933–34, and awarded points to drivers based on the results of selected Grand Prix races, the so-called \"Grandes Épreuves\" (this term had been used for the most prestigious races since the 1920s; in 1931 and 1935, some significant Grands Prix which did not count towards the European Championship were still called Grandes Épreuves). The championship was discontinued because of the outbreak of World War II in 1939, and no champion was officially declared for the last season.\n\nThe championship was run by the Association Internationale des Automobile Clubs Reconnus (AIACR), the forerunner to the FIA who are today's world governing body of motorsport.\n\nThe 1931 and 1932 seasons were run to existing Formula Libre regulations, with a minimum car weight of 900 kg. The calendar consisted of the Italian Grand Prix, the French Grand Prix and the Belgian Grand Prix.\n\nIn 1934, the AIACR introduced a maximum weight limit of 750 kg for Grand Prix cars. Already in 1933, new chancellor Adolf Hitler had announced that he would provide 450,000 reichsmarks to German companies to build Grand Prix cars. Eventually, the money was split between bidders, Mercedes-Benz and the newly formed Auto Union. Auto Union took over the P-Wagen concept of Ferdinand Porsche and put the engine behind the driver. Both German manufacturers proved dominant in nearly all races they entered. These cars proved to be the bases for the two companies entries in the first year of the European Championship. Other entries came from manufacturers including Alfa Romeo, whose team were being run by Scuderia Ferrari, Maserati, and Bugatti.\n\nThe 750 kg formula lasted until the end of 1937. By then, the German cars had over 600 hp, more than twice the rule makers had expected to be possible with that weight limit. For 1938, a new formula was introduced, limiting also engine sizes. Cars with a supercharger were permitted to have an engine size between 666 cc and 3000 cc, whereas normally aspirated cars were allowed between 1000 cc and 4500 cc. The cars had to weigh between 400 kg and 850 kg; the exact minimum weight specified in the regulations was dependent on a car's engine capacity and followed a linear scale.\nAt the AIACR's end of season meeting towards the end of 1938, it was expressed that some were not content using the then current points system. Belgium's representative, Mr. Langlois, was asked to come up with an alternative system for 1939. Langlois took several months to propose a new system and there is no evidence to suggest that the previous scoring system was rescinded.\n\nIn 1939, war broke out and the AIACR could not meet to publish an official set of championship results. Hermann Lang was declared European champion by Korpsführer Adolf Hühnlein of the NSKK, who was also president of Germany's highest racing organisation, Oberste Nationale Sportbehörde für die Deutsche Kraftfahrt. Hühnlein's declaration was published as a statement in the Völkischer Beobachter, the official Nazi Party newsletter. Hühnlein suggested that Lang had finished the season on 23 points, but this conflicts with the official scoring system, under which Hermann Paul Müller would have been the champion.\n\nUnlike the modern Formula One points system, the championship awarded fewer points for higher finishes; the champion would be the driver who ended the season on the lowest points score. The championship awarded one, two and three points to first, second and third places respectively. Other competitors were awarded points based on the percentage of the race distance they completed, as follows.\nNot entering, or failing to start the race, earned the driver eight points. Drivers only scored points with the car they entered the race with. In 1931, co-drivers were eligible to score championship points, but only from the car they were assigned to at the start, and provided that they had completed a stint in the car during the race. From 1932 onwards, if a driver handed his car over to another driver mid-race, only the original driver would score points from the car's final position.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1634961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1634961", "title": "Fakelore", "text": "Fakelore\n\nFakelore or pseudo-folklore is inauthentic, manufactured folklore presented as if it were genuinely traditional. The term can refer to new stories or songs made up, or to folklore that is reworked and modified for modern tastes. The element of misrepresentation is central; artists who draw on traditional stories in their work are not producing fakelore unless they claim that their creations are real folklore. Over the last several decades the term has generally fallen out of favor in folklore studies because it places an emphasis on origin instead of ongoing practice to determine authenticity.\n\nThe term \"fakelore\" was coined in 1950 by American folklorist Richard M. Dorson. Dorson's examples included the fictional cowboy Pecos Bill, who was presented as a folk hero of the American West but was actually invented by the writer Edward S. O'Reilly in 1923. Dorson also regarded Paul Bunyan as fakelore. Although Bunyan originated as a character in traditional tales told by loggers in the Great Lakes region of North America, James Stevens, an ad writer working for the Red River Lumber Company, invented many of the stories about him that are known today. According to Dorson, advertisers and popularizers turned Bunyan into a \"pseudo folk hero of twentieth-century mass culture\" who bore little resemblance to the original.\n\n\"Folklorismus\", anglicized to folklorism, also refers to the invention or adaptation of folklore. Unlike fakelore, however, folklorism is not necessarily misleading; it includes any use of a tradition outside the cultural context in which it was created. The term was first used in the early 1960s by German scholars, who were primarily interested in the use of folklore by the tourism industry. However, professional art based on folklore, TV commercials with fairy tale characters, and even academic studies of folklore are all forms of folklorism.\n\nThe term \"fakelore\" is often used by those who seek to expose or debunk it, including Dorson himself, who spoke of a \"battle against fakelore\". Dorson complained that popularizers had sentimentalized folklore, stereotyping the people who created it as quaint and whimsical – whereas the real thing was often \"repetitive, clumsy, meaningless and obscene\". He contrasted the genuine Paul Bunyan tales, which had been so full of technical logging terms that outsiders would find parts of them difficult to understand, with the commercialized versions, which sounded more like children's books. The original Paul Bunyan had been shrewd and sometimes ignoble; one story told how he cheated his men out of their pay. Mass culture provided a sanitized Bunyan with a \"spirit of gargantuan whimsy [that] reflects no actual mood of lumberjacks\". Daniel G. Hoffman said that Bunyan, a folk hero, had been turned into a mouthpiece for capitalists: \"This is an example of the way in which a traditional symbol has been used to manipulate the minds of people who had nothing to do with its creation.\"\n\nOthers have argued that professionally created art and folklore are constantly influencing each other, and that this mutual influence should be studied rather than condemned. For example, Jon Olson, a professor of anthropology, reported that while growing up he heard Paul Bunyan stories that had originated as lumber company advertising. Dorson had seen the effect of print sources on orally transmitted Paul Bunyan stories as a form of cross-contamination that \"hopelessly muddied the lore\". For Olson, however, \"the point is that I personally was exposed to Paul Bunyan in the genre of a living oral tradition, not of lumberjacks (of which there are precious few remaining), but of the present people of the area.\" What was fakelore had become folklore again.\n\nIn addition to Paul Bunyan and Pecos Bill, Dorson identified the American folk hero Joe Magarac as fakelore. Magarac, a fictional steelworker, first appeared in 1931 in a \"Scribner's Magazine\" story by the writer Owen Francis. He was a literal man of steel who made rails from molten metal with his bare hands; he refused an opportunity to marry in order to devote himself to working 24 hours a day, worked so hard that the mill had to shut down, and finally, in despair at enforced idleness, melted himself down in the mill's furnace in order to improve the quality of the steel. Francis said he heard this story from immigrant steelworkers in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; he reported that they told him the word \"magarac\" was a compliment, then laughed and talked to each other in their own language, which he did not speak. The word actually means \"jackass\" in Serbo-Croatian. Since no trace of the existence of Joe Magarac stories prior to 1931 has been discovered, Francis's informants may have made the character up as a joke on him. In 1998, Gilley and Burnett reported \"only tentative signs that the Magarac story has truly made a substantive transformation from 'fake-' into 'folklore'\", but noted his importance as a local cultural icon.\n\nOther American folk heroes that have been called fakelore include Old Stormalong, Febold Feboldson, Big Mose, Tony Beaver, Bowleg Bill, Whiskey Jack, Annie Christmas, Cordwood Pete, Antonine Barada, and Kemp Morgan. Marshall Fishwick describes these largely literary figures as imitations of Paul Bunyan.\n\nAdditionally, scholar Michael I. Niman describes the Legend of the Rainbow Warriors - a belief that a \"new tribe\" will inherit the ways of the Native Americans and save the planet - as an example of fakelore.\n\n"}
{"id": "49472908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49472908", "title": "Festival de Baía das Gatas", "text": "Festival de Baía das Gatas\n\nThe Festival de Baía das Gatas or the Baía das Gatas Festival and the Baía das Gatas Music Festival takes place on a full moon weekend in August in Baía das Gatas, a village and a bay in the northeastern part of the island of São Vicente, Cape Verde. It is the most popular music festival in Cape Verde and are likely being the first, in its early years, it was the only music festival in the country until the Festival de Gamboa which was established in 1992 in Praia in the island of Santiago. It is nicknamed the Woodstock of Africa.\n\nThe festival was created in 1984 by musician and composer Vasco Martins and his friends, it was done at a budget of 180 million escudos and equipment limited to 150 watts., also it was founded by Djô d'Eloy whose actual name was José Rodrigues Silva In the first year, musicians came from Mindelo, it would draw people from other islands in Cape Verde and the diaspora. In the 1990s, foreigners and outsiders would visit the festival. Since that time, the budget has increased twenty times and more than 15,000 people took part each year. The most popular guest was Cesária Évora, native of the island, the greatest contributor to the event. Manuel de Novas appeared several times, his most notable was in 2003. The 28th edition held in 2012 had several artists including Val and his son Roberto singing songs in memory of Cesária Évora, the greatest Cape Verdean singer.\n\nIn 2004, a documentary film directed by Alexis Tsafas titled \"The Music Cape\" was released and is about the music festival that went in Baia das Gatas up to 2004.\n\nThe festival takes part in a full moon weekend in August and is held for three days. It is organized by the island mayor, unlike other music festivals, the admissions are free.\n\nMusic events are complemented with horse racing, water sports and dances and the election of \"Miss Baía\".\n\nIn recent years, parts of the music festival are broadcast on TCV.\n\nThe following is a list of selected festival that featured famous musicians:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "375674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375674", "title": "First ascent", "text": "First ascent\n\nIn mountaineering, a first ascent (abbreviated to FA in guidebooks) is the first successful, documented attainment of the top of a mountain, or the first to follow a particular climbing route. First mountain ascents are notable because they entail genuine exploration, with greater risks, challenges, and recognition than climbing a route pioneered by others. The person who performs the first ascent is called the first ascensionist. \n\nIn free climbing, a first ascent (or first free ascent, abbreviated FFA) of a climbing route is the first successful, documented climb of a route without using equipment such as anchors or ropes for aiding progression or resting. \n\nThe details of the first ascents of even many prominent mountains are scanty or unknown; sometimes the only evidence of prior summiting is a cairn, artifacts, or inscriptions at the top. Today, first ascents are generally carefully recorded and usually mentioned in guidebooks.\n\nOverwhelmingly, the idea of a \"first ascent\" is a modern one, especially in places such as Africa and the Americas with a history of colonialism. There may be little or no physical evidence or documentation about the climbing activities of indigenous peoples living near the mountain. For example, the volcano Llullaillaco on the border of Argentina and Chile is known to have been climbed in the prehistoric period due to the presence of Incan artifacts at the summit, yet credit for the first recorded ascent is given to Chilean climbers Bión González and Juan Harseim, who summited in 1952.\n\nThe term is also used when referring to ascents made using a specific technique or taking a specific route, such as via the North Face, without ropes or without oxygen.\n\nIn rock climbing, some of the earlier first ascents, particularly for difficult routes, involved a mix of free and aid climbing. As a result, purist free climbers have developed the designation first free ascent (FFA) to acknowledge ascents intentionally made more challenging by using equipment for protection only.\n\nSecond ascents are also noteworthy in climbing circles, frequently involving improving on a pioneering route through lessons learned from it, experience which may span from technical improvements to having a better understanding of how much gear and provisions to take.\n\nSome other \"first ascents\" could be recorded for particular mountains or routes. One is the First Winter Ascent, which is, as the name easily suggests, the first ascent made during winter season. This is most important where the climate of winter is a factor in increasing the difficulty grade of the route (higher elevation, polar latitudes). In the Northern Hemisphere conventional winter ascents are made between December 21 and March 21 and are not related to the conditions. Also in the Himalayan area, although Nepal and China's winter season permits start on December 1, the conventional winter ascents begin on December 21.\n\nAnother is the First Solo Ascent, which is the first ascent made by a single climber. This is most important on high-level rock climbing, when the climber has to provide his own security (self-belaying) or even when climbing without any protection at all (often recorded as First Free Solo Ascent). Another type of ascent, also known as FFA (not to be confused with First Free Ascent as listed above) is the first female ascent. While not generally considered as important, this designation remains significant on some difficult, limit-pushing climbs, where the first female ascent may not happen until well after the FA, due to possible difficulties encountered by female physicality.\n\nThe term last ascent has been used to refer to an ascent of a mountain or face that has subsequently changed to such an extent – often because of rockfall – that the route no longer exists (e.g., the south-west face of the Aiguille du Dru in the Alps). It can also be used facetiously to refer to a climb that is so unpleasant or unaesthetic (due to loose rock, excessive brush, poor route selection, etc.) that no one would ever willingly repeat the first ascent party's ordeal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33018643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33018643", "title": "Forgery Act 1870", "text": "Forgery Act 1870\n\nThe Forgery Act 1870 (33 & 34 Vict c 58) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The whole Act, so far as unrepealed, was repealed by section 33(3) of, and Part I of Schedule 3 to, the Theft Act 1968. This Act was repealed for the Republic of Ireland by sections 1 and 2 of, and Part 4 of the Schedule to, the Statute Law Revision (Pre-1922) Act 2005.\n\nThis section authorised the citation of this Act by its short title.\n\nThis section provided that this Act had effect as one Act with the Forgery Act 1861, except that this Act extended to the United Kingdom.\n\nThis section was repealed by section 20 of, and Part I of the Schedule to, the Forgery Act 1913.\n\nThis section was repealed by section 20 of, and Part I of the Schedule to, the Forgery Act 1913.\n\nThis section was repealed by section 20 of, and Part I of the Schedule to, the Forgery Act 1913.\n\nThis section extended sections 2 and 4, and all provisions relative thereto, of the Forgery Act 1861 and all enactments amending those sections or provisions, or any of them, to Scotland.\n\nThe Schedule read:\n\nThe Act referred to was the Forgery Act 1861 (which did not have a short title when this Act was passed).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4370018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4370018", "title": "Hadron epoch", "text": "Hadron epoch\n\nIn physical cosmology, the hadron epoch was the period in the evolution of the early universe during which the mass of the universe was dominated by hadrons. It started approximately 10 seconds after the Big Bang, when the temperature of the universe had fallen sufficiently to allow the quarks from the preceding quark epoch to bind together into hadrons. Initially the temperature was high enough to allow the formation of hadron/anti-hadron pairs, which kept matter and anti-matter in thermal equilibrium. However, as the temperature of the universe continued to fall, hadron/anti-hadron pairs were no longer produced. Most of the hadrons and anti-hadrons were then eliminated in annihilation reactions, leaving a small residue of hadrons. The elimination of anti-hadrons was completed by one second after the Big Bang, when the following lepton epoch began.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18124033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18124033", "title": "Hyena-baiting", "text": "Hyena-baiting\n\nHyena-baiting is a blood sport involving the baiting of hyenas. \n\nThe striped hyena has historically been the most frequently used species. Hyenas can be challenging opponents for dogs, as their jaws are exceedingly powerful. A single bite from a hyena lasting a few seconds without holding on is sufficient to kill a large dog. Hyenas apparently fight dogs by trying to cripple them by biting at their legs. \n\nThe Qalandar and the Thori in southern Punjab, Kandahar and Quetta, catch striped hyenas in order to pit them against specially trained dogs. The hyenas are restrained with ropes in order to pull them away from the dogs if necessary.\nIn Baluchistan, captured hyenas sometimes had bridles placed in their mouths in order to prevent them from injuring the dogs. This was done in order to train the dogs into not fearing the animal.\nIt is known that a Dogue de Bordeaux bitch named Megre was pitted against hyenas in 1895, though the exact species was not identified.\n\n"}
{"id": "42442465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42442465", "title": "If I Loved You: Gentlemen Prefer Broadway", "text": "If I Loved You: Gentlemen Prefer Broadway\n\nIf I Loved You: Gentlemen Prefer Broadway — An Evening of Love Duets is a show conceived and directed by American-Canadian singer-songwriter Rufus Wainwright, which premiered on June 14, 2014 during Luminato in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The concert featured men singing classic love songs to one another, and included a full orchestra and performances by Wainwright and special guests Boy George, David Byrne, Josh Groban and Steven Page. Countertenor Brennan Hall, Brent Carver, Glen Hansard, Ezra Koenig and Andrew Rannells also appeared. The program featured songs written by gay men, including Noël Coward, Lorenz Hart, Jerry Herman and Cole Porter.\n\nIn 2012, having been together for seven years, Wainwright married Jörn Weisbrodt, who became artistic director of Luminato in 2011. Wainwright began appearing at Luminato in 2010, when he performed in support of his album \"\" (2010) and presented the North American premiere of his first opera, \"Prima Donna\" (2009). Since then, Wainwright has performed at Luminato regularly. In 2012, he and his sister Martha Wainwright paid tribute to their mother (Kate McGarrigle), who died in 2010, with a program called \"Love Over and Over\".\n\nIn 2014, Weisbrodt said of his association with both Luminato and Wainwright, \"I think the primary purpose of my job is to love artists. Of course the relationship with my husband Rufus Wainwright is special but I feel if someone is more talented and deserves more to be associated with this festival it is him rather than me.\" For the 2014 festival, Wainwright conceived, created and directed a program called \"If I Loved You: Gentlemen Prefer Broadway\", which will feature \"guys singing classic love songs to other guys\".\n\nThe Canadian Broadcasting Corporation described the program as \"male singers putting a new spin on dozens of love songs traditionally performed by a man and a woman, or by a man singing about a woman\". It premiered on June 14, 2014 at the Sony Centre for the Performing Arts, during Luminato's closing weekend, and was billed as a \"prelude\" to Toronto's WorldPride event, which took place during June 20–29 and replaced annual Pride Week events for the year. WorldPride also serves a concert partner.\n\nThe concert was officially confirmed on April 8, 2014 by Weisbrodt during a news conference about the festival. Wainwright and Weisbrodt had previously announced the show during an exclusive party they hosted. In promoting the concert, Weisbrodt said:\n\nLuminato promoted the event with the following description:\nIn a press release also issued on April 8, a spokesperson for WorldPride said, \"You can never underestimate the power of seeing yourself reflected in art, and how important that is to a feeling of belonging. WorldPride 2014 Toronto will showcase a rich range of LGBTQ art and voices from across the world in a once-in-a-lifetime event. We are delighted to partner with a cultural icon like the Luminato Festival to celebrate Toronto’s vibrant arts community and bring focus on global LGBTQ struggles and triumphs.\" Tickets went on sale the week of news conference. Boy George's participation was confirmed on his official website, which also noted that the concert would take place on his birthday.\n\nThe show included a full Broadway orchestra, conducted by music director Stephen Oremus, and performances by Wainwright and special guests Boy George, David Byrne, Josh Groban and Steven Page. Also scheduled to appear are counter-tenor Brennan Hall, Brent Carver, Glen Hansard, Ezra Koenig and Andrew Rannells. Some of the songs were written by gay men, including Noël Coward, Lorenz Hart, Jerry Herman and Cole Porter.\n\nIncluded were the songs \"If I Loved You\" from \"Carousel\" (1945), \"Some Enchanted Evening\" from \"South Pacific\" (1949), and \"We Kiss in a Shadow\" from \"The King and I\" (1951), all written by Rodgers and Hammerstein, as well as songs by Stephen Sondheim.\n\nPrior to the concert, the \"Toronto Star\" said, \"One thing we can be sure of is that, to borrow a phrase from one famous song, this could be the start of something big... After its Toronto premiere, it’s safe to assume \"If I Loved You\" will head for New York, the Hollywood Bowl and London\". The paper's entertainment contributor Martin Knelman predicted that the concert would sell out \"in record time\".\n"}
{"id": "15839601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15839601", "title": "Jesse James (Lucky Luke)", "text": "Jesse James (Lucky Luke)\n\nJesse James is a Lucky Luke comic written by Goscinny and illustrated by Morris. The original French edition was printed in 1969 by Dargaud. English editions of this French series have been published by Dargaud, Cinebook. Brockhampton Press and Tara Press. It is based on the true story of Jesse James (1847–1882).\n\nIn 1880, the story begins with Jesse James, who idolizes and tries to emulate Robin Hood, but somehow he is not able to clearly define the line between the rich he is supposed to rob and the poor he is supposed to help. With the help of his Shakespeare aficionado brother Frank, he therefore simply redefines the term \"poor\" for his own benefit, and along with Cole Younger the two begin robbing trains en masse, forcing Lucky Luke to move out and stop them with the somewhat inept assistance of two Pinkerton detectives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31148452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31148452", "title": "Ken Ring (writer)", "text": "Ken Ring (writer)\n\nKen Ring is a writer from Auckland, New Zealand, who asserts that he can use lunar cycles to predict weather and earthquakes. He terms his predictions \"alternative weather\" and has authored books about the weather and climate. Ring publishes almanacs each year for New Zealand, Australia and Ireland in which he provides weather predictions for the entire year. His New Zealand almanac covers 64 towns. Ring's methods are unscientific and have been widely criticised as fake and pseudoscience by many scientists in the fields of meteorology and geology.\n\nRing says he predicted the 4 September 2010 Christchurch earthquake and the deadly 22 February 2011 Christchurch earthquake. He also said there would probably be an earthquake in Marlborough or north Canterbury \"just before noon\" on 20 March 2011. This caused some residents to leave Christchurch and led to criticism from scientists and sceptics. Further research into his predictions showed that his forecasting record did not hold up under scrutiny.\n\nKen Ring has been a mathematics teacher, musician, actor, clown, speech therapist, private tutor to children with learning difficulties, teacher of English as a second language, and part-time teacher's college lecturer. He has used magic to teach children about mathematics, performing under the name \"Mathman\", and has written books on mathematics, magic, teaching and music. He also co-wrote a book on reading cats' paws, which he says was a joke.\n\nRing is known for attempting to predict weather and authors books on \"how the moon affects the weather\", which include an almanac each year for New Zealand (since 1999), Australia (since 2006) and Ireland (since 2010). He believes that the cycle of weather follows a lunar pattern and can be used to predict weather many years in advance. The lunar cycle occurs every 9 years, while the solar cycle repeats at 11 year intervals and by assessing the two Ring believes that the weather recycles through a 355-day cycle, a 19-year cycle, and a 36-year cycle. According to his website it is not an exact science - it's not scientific at all - and is opinion-based similar to economics or political science or astrology and his rainfall predictions can be out by 24 hours and a radius of .\n\nHis New Zealand almanac covers 64 towns. He also writes columns for farming and fishing publications and is an on-call weather reporter for Channel 7's Today Tonight show. He says he has provided forecasts for specific events including the Melbourne Cup, Ellerslie Flower Show and the Auckland Santa Parade. Ring speaks at various business and media events and has produced long range weather predictions for the Gisborne City Council through to 2020.\n\nHe terms his predictions \"alternative weather\" and they are not supported by real science. Author of the New Zealand Weather Book and MetService employee Erick Brenstrum, wrote a column in the New Zealand Geographic analysing his 2005 predictions. He compared two weather systems (the northwest winds that bring rain to the west coast and lows that bring rain to the east coast) and has stated that out of 40 occurrences only 1 matched with Ring's predictions. Ken replied accusing Brenstrum of bullying and insists he has proof of an 85 percent success rate, to which the editor responded with: \"...once you publish a book, you're fair game for public scrutiny of its content and your own competence.\" Retired schoolteacher and amateur astronomer Bill Keir believes Ring makes a genuine attempt at scientific discourse, but doesn't understand the science or changes it to fit with his own theories. Keir published articles in the Auckland Astronomical Society journal that examine and critique Ring's theories.\n\nRing says that a former client and member of the All Blacks management approached him in 2007 for forecasts on days when the team was playing, reportedly to aid in team selections. Ian Ferguson, a former Olympian and now an events organiser says he consults with Ring before any big event and has never had to cancel. Ring uses similar methods (moons position and phase) to predict when fish will bite, publishing his predictions in the NZ Fishing World magazine. Ring denies global warming, stating that it is a \"motivated power grab by politicians and the far left\" and \"full of bad science\". During the launch of his 2008 almanac he said that \"we have a responsibility to create global warming\" as \"life likes warmth\".\n\nRing predicts earthquakes based on the position of the moon. On his website he says that when the moon (in particular the new moon) is at perigee (closest to the earth) it may affect the Earth's mantle and alter the magnetic field. It may also draw the Van Allen Belt closer, attracting radioactively charged particles towards Earth. Ring believes this combination may be responsible for earthquakes and volcanoes. Ring has predicted 221 days of increased earthquake risk for New Zealand in 2011 and more than half of the time between the start of January and the end of March as earthquake risk.\n\nOn his weekly Radio Waatea broadcast on 3 September 2010 he said \"you’ll be reading about floods and winds and earthquakes and snow over the next week or so, particularly the South Island\". Early the next morning a 7.1 magnitude earthquake struck Christchurch.\n\nOn 7 September 2010 he wrote on his website that there would \"probably be an east/west faultline event\" in Marlborough or north Canterbury \"just before noon\" on 20 March 2011. The next day he wrote on Twitter, \"The Christchurch earthquake was predictable. And there's another coming in 6 months.\" He directed readers to his website to find out just when it would be. Another two days later in a Radio Live interview, he told Marcus Lush that \"the next one\" would be \"round about lunchtime on the 20th of March\" and that \"the South Island is going to be right in the firing line\".\n\nOn 14 February 2011 Ring tweeted \"Potential earthquake time for the planet between 15th–25th, especially 18th for Christchurch, +/- about 3 days.\" A deadly 6.3 magnitude aftershock struck Christchurch on 22 February.\n\nFollowing the earthquakes Ring received a lot of media attention. John Campbell interviewed Ring on \"Campbell Live\" on 28 February and was criticised for being arrogant and not giving Ring a fair chance to speak. Campbell later apologised, but his interview may have unintentionally generated sympathy for Ring. Prior to 20 March 2011, Cabinet minister Nick Smith, who has a PhD in geotechnical engineering, said Ring's predictions were \"reckless and irresponsible\" and suggested that Ring should be \"held to account for his predictions of a further earthquake in Christchurch\". Smith added that \"the last thing needed by thousands of traumatised people in Canterbury, including elderly and children, is junk science and made-up predictions of future major quakes.\" Smith described Ring as \"scaremongering\" and attended a lunch on 20 March at the Sign of the Kiwi, close to the epicentre of the 22 February earthquake, organised by the New Zealand Skeptics organisation. After the widespread death and destruction caused by the earlier earthquakes counsellors say his prediction for 20 March terrified \"even the most rational\" of people. 18 March had been made a special public holiday for Christchurch, and some residents left the city for the three-day weekend of 18–20 March, citing a mix of doubt and concern over the prediction, as well as wishing to have a break from the aftershocks and to take advantage of the long weekend. A 5.1 magnitude aftershock occurred at 9:47 pm (NZDT) on 20 March, and according to his supporters validated Ring's prediction. Scientists contend there is no link with Ring's predictions, and with a quake measuring 5 or higher occurring once every 11 days since 4 September, it was within the range expected in the ongoing aftershock pattern.\n\nDavid Winter, a PhD student in evolutionary genetics, analysed Ring's predictions and noted that the moon only explains a 2% variation in earthquake activity and wrote that cognitive and hindsight bias are possible reasons for so many people believing his predictions. New Zealand's TV3 news channel says they have not been able to \"find a single scientist, geologist or seismologist which believes in Ken Ring's theories\". Alison Campbell, a lecturer in science education at the University of Waikato, criticised Ring's predictions for \"imprecision\", \"inconsistencies\", and being \"vaguely worded\", and described Ring as \"hedging his bets.\"\n\nOne such example of confirmation bias is a Ring prediction from 2011, which was reported in an article for local Wellington newspaper, the Upper Hutt Leader. On 14 November 2016, Kaikoura and Wellington city experienced a M7.8 earthquake. Ring was quoted in 2011 as saying \"I do expect earthquake activity exceeding 7 on the Richter to come about every 11 to 13 years, as they have done in Wellington in February 1893, August 1904, August 1917, July 1929, August 1942, May 1968 and May 1992. As the last in the series of above-7s was in 1992 we can reasonably expect a 7 mag between 2013 and 2016,\" allowing a full four-year window for an earthquake to occur, making the \"prediction\" useless.\n\n"}
{"id": "24951664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24951664", "title": "Kolodzei Art Foundation", "text": "Kolodzei Art Foundation\n\nThe Kolodzei Art Foundation, Inc. promotes the contemporary art of Russia and the former Soviet Union. The Kolodzei Art Foundation often utilizes the artistic resources of the Kolodzei Collection of Russian and Eastern European Art, one of the world's largest private collections, with over 7,000 artworks by over 300 artists from Russia and the former Soviet Union.\n\nThe Foundation has held exhibitions at such museums as the Hermitage Museum, the State Tretyakov Gallery, the State Russian Museum, the Central House of Artists, National Center for Contemporary Art, Harriman Institute at Columbia University, MARS Contemporary Art Center, the Chelsea Art Museum, the Leepa-Rattner Museum of Art, the Bergen Museum of Art and Science, the MADI Museum, and elsewhere.\n\nThe Kolodzei Art Foundation, founded in 1991, arranges art exhibitions in museums, universities and cultural centers throughout the United States, Russia and Europe. Its Board of Directors includes distinguished business, diplomatic and cultural figures in US-European-Russian relations. The Kolodzei Art Foundation also arranges Russian-American cultural exchanges, grants financial stipends to artists for the purpose of studying and working in the United States, provides art supplies to artists in Russia and the former Soviet Union, and publishes books on Russian art. It is a US-based public foundation (501(c)3 status).\n\nThe Kolodzei Art Foundation often utilizes the artistic resources of the Kolodzei Collection of Russian and Eastern European Art. The Kolodzei Collection of Russian and Eastern European Art is now one of the world's largest private art collections, containing over 7,000 works by over 300 artists, including paintings, sculptures, prints, photographs and videos, all from Russia and the former Soviet Union from the 1950s through today. The Collection was started by Tatiana Kolodzei in Moscow during the late 1960s at the height of the Cold War. In 2006, the Kolodzei Collection of Russian and Eastern European Art was recognized by \"Art and Antiques Magazine\" as one of the top 100 collectors in the United States (\"Art and Antiques\", March 2006, pp. 101–102).\n\nThere are now over 300 artists in the Kolodzei Collection of Russian and Eastern European Art. The Collection includes works by such well known artists of the 1960s and 1970s as Ilya Kabakov, Komar and Melamid, Eduard Shteinberg, Vladimir Nemukhin, Pyotr Belenok, Erik Bulatov, Ivan Chuikov, Francisco Infante, Viacheslav Koleichuk, Bela Levikova, Mikhail Shvartsman, Oleg Vassiliev, Vladimir Yankilevsky, Leonid Lamm, Valeri Yurlov, Dmitri Krasnopevtsev, Anatoly Zverev, Eduard Gorokhovsky, Dmitri Plavinsky, Rimma Gerlovina and Valeriy Gerlovin, , Ernst Neizvestny, and many others. There are artists of the 1980s and 1990s such as Igor Novikov, Andrei Budaev, Shimon Okshteyn, Dimitry Gerrman, Farid Bogdalov, Asya Dodina, Slava Polishchuk, Olga Bulgakova, Valerii and Natasha Cherkashin, Irina Danilova, Genia Chef, Leonid Borisov, Andrei Karpov, Evgenii Gorokhovskii, Sergei Volokhov, Valery Koshlyakov, Sergei Mironenko, Andrei Filipov, Semen Agroskin, Mamut Churlu, Tatiana Antoshina, and others.\n\nTatiana Kolodzei, along with supporters from the US and Europe (including Norton Dodge), formed the Kolodzei Art Foundation shortly before the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. Tatiana's daughter, Natalia Kolodzei (an Honorary Member of the Russian Academy of Arts), is the Executive Director. \"Robb Report\" called Natalia Kolodzei \"the person to know\" regarding Russian art, and \"one of the most influential of Russia's young cultural figures.\" In 2015, Natalia Kolodzei was featured in The Robb 50 Connoisseurs: Art; Robb Report, October 2015.\n\nPersonal Spaces – Interactive Multimedia Works by Anna Frants, Carla Gannis, Alexandra Dementieva, Elena Gubanova and Ivan Govorkov. National Arts Club, 15 Gramercy Park South, New York, 2018.\n\n\"This Leads to Fire: Russian Art from Non-Conformism to Global Capitalism. Selections from the Kolodzei Art Foundation\", Neuberger Museum of Art, Purchase College, Purchase, NY, September 14, 2014 to January 11, 2015.\n\n\"Finding Freedom in Russian Art, 1961-2014. Selections from the Kolodzei Art Foundation and the Collection of Dr. Wayne F. Yakes.\" Paul and Lulu Hilliard University Art Museum, University of Louisiana at Lafayette, Lafayette, LA, 2014.\n\n\"Concerning the Spiritual In Russian Art, 1965-2011. Selections from \nthe Kolodzei Art Foundation.\" The Museum of Russian Art, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 2013.\n\n\"Concerning the Spiritual Tradition in Russian Art. Selections from the Kolodzei Art Foundation Collection of Russian and Eastern European Art.\" Curated by Natalia Kolodzei. Chelsea Art Museum - Home of Miotte Foundation, New York, 2011\n\n\"Not Toys?!\" State Tretyakov Gallery in conjunction with 3rd Moscow Biennale) 2009\n\n\"From Non-Conformism to Feminisms: Russian Women Artists from the Kolodzei Art Foundation.\" Chelsea Art Museum - Home of the Miotte Foundation, New York 2008\n\n\"Moscow - New York = Parallel Play. From the Kolodzei Art Foundation Collection of Russian and Eastern European Art.\" National Center for Contemporary Art (NCCA), 2007, and Chelsea Art Museum - Home of the Miotte Foundation, New York, 2008\n\n\"Olga Bulgakova and Alexander Sitnikov. Paintings. Objects.\" State Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow, 2007\n\n\"Shimon Okshteyn. Dialogue with Objects.\" Contemporary Art Center MARS and State Russian Museum, Saint Petersburg 2007\n\n\"Vadim Voinov. The State Hermitage under a Full Moon.\" The State Hermitage Museum, St. Petersburg, 2005-2006\n\n\"Works on Paper: Soviet and Russian Art 1955-2005 from the Kolodzei Collection of Russian and Eastern European Art.\" Brooklyn College of the City University of New York, Brooklyn, New York, 2006\n\n\"Historic MADI: Its Roots. Artists from Russia through Uruguay to Argentina in 20th Century\". MADI Museum, Dallas, Texas, 2006\n\n\"Moscow Grafika: Artists' Prints 1961 – 2005. Selections from the Kolodzei Collection of Russian and Eastern European Art.\" International Print Center New York, 2005. The exhibition was also presented during Russian Nights Festival in Los Angeles 2006.\n\n\"Perestroika + 20: Selections from the Kolodzei Collection of Russian and Eastern European Art.\" Harriman Institute, Columbia University, New York. 2005-2006.\n\n\"Young American Artists of Today. Festival of American Contemporary Culture American Autumn in Moscow\". Central House of Artists, Moscow, 2005 and Bergen Museum of Art and Science, Paramus, New Jersey. 2006 (article NYT, January 29, 2006).\n\n\"Finding Freedom: Forty Years of Soviet and Russian Art\". Bergen Museum of Art and Science, Paramus, NJ and Leepa-Rattner Museum of Art, Tarpon Springs, Florida. 2004.\n\n\"Oleg Vassiliev: Memory Speaks (Themes and Variations).\" State Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow, and the State Russian Museum, St. Petersburg, Russia 2004-2005.\n\n\"Dmitri Plavinsky—A Retrospective: Paintings, Works on Paper and Installations\". State Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow. 2004\n\nThe Kolodzei Art Foundation lent artworks to the exhibition Abstract Art XXth Century, State Russian Museum, St. Petersburg, Russia. 2001-2002\n\n\"Hurricane of Time: Selections from the Kolodzei Collection\" Villa Ormond, Sanremo, Italy. 2000\n\n\"Works on Paper: Selections from the Kolodzei Collection\", Oklahoma Art Center, Oklahoma City. 1994, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY (1999), Bergen Museum of Art (2000)\n\n\"100 Artists from Tatiana & Natalia Kolodzei Collection\", State Museum of Fine Arts of Uzbekistan in Tashkent. 1989\n\n\n\nBrown, Heidi. \"Nonconformists: Hot though Russian art may be, the Kolodzeis aren't selling theirs.\" \"Forbes\", June 2, 2009.\n\nSmith, Jack. \"Bear Essentials.\" \"Robb Report\", January 2009.\n\nRussian Academy of Arts\n\nHodara, Susan, Artistic Expression in a Repressive State, New York Times, November 30, 2014 https://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/30/nyregion/in-purchase-ny-an-exhibition-of-artwork-by-artists-who-worked-in-the-soviet-union.html?_r=0\n\n"}
{"id": "24160593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24160593", "title": "Lindsey Creek tree", "text": "Lindsey Creek tree\n\nThe Lindsey Creek French Tree is the largest single-stem organism (tree) thus far known to have existed historically. It was a coast redwood (also known as California redwood), a member of the species \"Sequoia sempervirens\". It grew in Fieldbrook, California, along the Lindsey Creek, which feeds into the Mad River. When it was uprooted and felled by a storm in 1905, its mass was at least 3,630 short tons, 3.3 million kilograms, or 7.26 million pounds; and its trunk volume was at least 2,550 cubic meters (90,000 cubic feet). In terms of volume, this would make it close to twice the size of the largest living single-stem tree, the giant sequoia known as General Sherman.\n\nSkip Johnson, a Fieldbrook logger interviewed in 1971, testified that he witnessed the Lindsey Creek Tree after it was lying on the ground. He reported it as the tallest tree in Fieldbrook. He stated that a family member measured its diameter at 19 feet at 130 feet off the ground, and 9.5 feet at 260 feet off the ground, and its total height slightly exceeded 390 feet. If true, it was taller than any other known tree. Hyperion, another coast redwood (Sequoia sempervirens), currently the world's tallest tree, is no less than 115.72 m (379.7 feet) tall.\n\n"}
{"id": "640153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=640153", "title": "List of Mongol and Tatar attacks in Europe", "text": "List of Mongol and Tatar attacks in Europe\n\nThe Mongol invasion of Europe from the east took place over the course of three centuries, from the Middle Ages to the early modern period.\n\nThe terms \"Tatars\" or \"Tartars\" are applied to nomadic Mongolic peoples who, themselves, were conquered by Mongols and incorporated into their horde. They were mainly composed of Kipchaks-Cuman people.\n\nMongol-Tatar Golden Horde forces led by Batu Khan, (a grandson of Genghis Khan), began attacking Europe in 1223, starting with Cumans, Volga Bulgaria and Kievan Rus. They destroyed many Rus cities including Kiev, Vladimir and Moscow in the process, sparing Novgorod and Pskov however. They originally planned to continue all the way to the shores of the \"Great Sea\" (Atlantic Ocean). However, upon learning of the death of Ögedei Khan (third son of Genghis Khan, uncle of Batu Khan) in 1241 they returned eastwards to their steppe homelands. This, it could be argued, saved the rest of Europe from suffering the catastrophes that befell the armies and towns of Poland and Hungary, although over-stretched lines of communication and the lack of vast open tracts of pasture land might well have proved the undoing of such a venture.\n\n\nThe Tatars succeeded in establishing control over Rus principalities. It included both pillaging and bloody massacres in Russian cities.\n\n1552 Russian Moscow state 110,000 army with Kasym state 40,000 army occupied Kazan kahanate 30,000 army.\n\nFrom 1599 the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth suffered a series of Tatar invasions, the goal of which was to loot, pillage and capture slaves into jasyr. The borderland area to the south-east was in a state of semi-permanent warfare until the 18th century. Some researchers estimate that altogether more than 3 million people, predominantly Ukrainians but also Circassians, Russians, Belarusians and Poles, were captured and enslaved during the time of the Crimean Khanate. A constant threat from Crimean Tatars supported the appearance of Cossackdom.\n\nFor years the Khanates of Kazan and Astrakhan routinely raided Rus principalities for slaves and to plunder towns. Russian chronicles record about 40 raids of Kazan Khans on the Russian territories in the first half of the 16th century. Muscovy was also being invaded by the Nogai Horde and Crimean Khanate which were successors of the Golden Horde.\n\nIn the beginning of the 16th century the wild steppe began near old Ryazan on the Oka River and Elets on the Sosna, inflow of the Don. Crimean Tatars chose to proceed along watersheds for their incursions. The main way to Moscow was \"Muravski shliach\", from the Crimean Perekop up to Tula between the rivers of two basins, Dnieper and Northern Donets. Having penetrated deep in the populated areas about 100-200 kilometers, the Tatars turned back and, having unwrapped wide wings, looted and captured slaves. Until the early 18th century, the khanate maintained a massive slave trade with the Ottoman Empire. Captives were sold to Turkey and the Middle East. In Crimea, about 75% of the population consisted of slaves. The Crimean city of Caffa was the main slave market.\n\nAnnually, Moscow mobilized in the spring up to 65,000 soldiers for boundary service. The defensive lines were applied, consisting of a circuit of fortresses and cities. Cossacks and young noblemen were organized into sentry and patrol services that observed Crimean Tatars and nomads of Nogai Horde on the steppe. About 30 major Tatar raids were recorded into Muscovite territories between 1558-1596.\n\nTo protect from the invasions of the Nogai Horde between the Volga and Irtysh rivers, the Volga cities of Samara in 1586, Tsaritsyn in 1589, Saratov in 1590 were founded.\n\nThe Crimean Khanate was one of the strongest powers in Eastern Europe until the 18th century. The Russian population of the borderland suffered annual Tatar invasions and tens of thousands of soldiers were required to protect the southern boundaries. This was a heavy burden for the state, and slowed its social and economic development. Since Crimean Tatars did not permit settlement of Russians to southern regions where the soil is better and the season is long enough, Muscovy had to depend on poorer regions and labour-intensive agriculture. Poland-Lithuania, Moldavia and Wallachia were also subjected to extensive slave raiding. The Crimean Khanate was conquered by the Russian Empire in 1783, bringing an end to Mongol and Tatar rule in Europe. \nThe Turkic invasion in Anatolia (previously populated by some European nations), Cyprus and the Balkans remains unchanged.\n\nHistorians estimate that up to half of Hungary's two million population at that time were victims of the Mongol invasion of Europe. About half of the Russian population may have died during the Mongol invasion of Rus'. Colin McEvedy (\"Atlas of World Population History, 1978\") estimates the population of Russia-in-Europe dropped by 500,000 people, from 7.5 to 7 million in 1300. In some areas of Poland more than 70% of the population was slaughtered, e.g. at the silver mines of Rosperk (Rozbark), next to Bytom while one of the (at least) two raids around 75% were killed and the looted silver was used to build the massive Silver Tree fountain of Karakorum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42991317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42991317", "title": "Maroc Hebdo", "text": "Maroc Hebdo\n\nMaroc Hebdo is a French-language weekly political magazine issued in Morocco. \n\n\"Maroc Hebdo\" was established in 1991 by Mohammed Selhami in Casablanca. Mohammed Selhami also edited it. In January 2005, it changed to the magazine format.\n\nThe editorial stance of \"Maroc Hebdo\" is pro-government. In 2013 the magazine sold 6,265 copies.\n\nOn 12 June 2015, it published an issue with a homophobic cover saying, \"Shall we burn homosexuals?\". Due to ensuing global outrage at the incitement of hatred, all copies were recalled.\n"}
{"id": "735163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=735163", "title": "May Week", "text": "May Week\n\nMay Week is the name used in the University of Cambridge to refer to a period at the end of the academic year. Originally May Week took place in the week during May before year-end exams began. Nowadays, May Week takes place in June after exams, and is a cause for great celebration amongst the students of the University. Highlights of the week include Bumps races, May Balls, June Events and garden parties.\n\nMay Week festivities were originally held in May, in the final week before exams; however, the May boat races, also known as the May Bumps, moving toward June, right after exams to celebrate the year end.\n\n\"Suicide Sunday\" is the name used at Cambridge University to refer to the Sunday immediately after the end of the spring term (known as Easter Term). By this Sunday, all students have finished exams but most of the results have not been published, so it is traditionally a period of nerves and suspense. The name, however, refers to the celebration that students haven't committed suicide due to stress of exams. The event is for current students of the University of Cambridge but is frequented by former students that indulge in the student lifestyle. A student-led campaign in 2015 encouraged use of the name \"MayWeek Sunday\" instead, though \"Suicide Sunday\" continues to persist among some students and the public.\n\nThe Cardboard Boat Race is a main attraction to Suicide Sunday, offering an alternative to the many garden parties and more serious boating. The first race was in 2010, with three boats from Magdalene College (The Galleon - Graham Forrest, Konrad Newton and Peter O'Brien; The Canoe - Doug Byatt, Matthew Schabas and Dominic White; Skippy - Ian Drummond, Julian Wesolowski and Tom Wilson). In 2011, the race was opened to other colleges.\n"}
{"id": "58236109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58236109", "title": "Miss Multinational 2018", "text": "Miss Multinational 2018\n\nMiss Multinational 2018 will be the 2nd edition of the Miss Multinational pageant which will take place in New Delhi, India from January 9th to January 21, 2019. More than 20 contestants around the world will be participating in the pageant. Sophia Señoron of the Philippines will crown her successor at the end of the pageant.\n\n19 contestants have been confirmed:\n"}
{"id": "41903782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41903782", "title": "Molokai Ka Hula Piko", "text": "Molokai Ka Hula Piko\n\nMolokai Ka Hula Piko is an annual festival of the hula, held for three days every spring in Kaana, Molokai. \"Ka Hula Piko\" in Hawaiian means the \"center of the hula dance\".\n\nThe first festival was in 1991 by the Molokai Visitors Association and John Kaimikaua, a Kumu Hula. It is currently organized by the Halau Hula o Kukunaokala.\n\nIt is held in annually in Kaana because according to Hawaiian legend, Laka, now regarded as the goddess of hula, created hula at Pu'u Nana, a sacred hill in Kaana, before spreading the art form across the islands.\n\nThe festival begins with an early-morning ceremony at Puʻu Nana. It then continues with a ho'olaule'a, lectures, and other activities intended to educate and spread awareness of hula as an art form.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1621684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1621684", "title": "Murder of Jessica Lunsford", "text": "Murder of Jessica Lunsford\n\nJessica Marie Lunsford (October 6, 1995 – February 27, 2005) was an American nine-year-old girl from Homosassa, Florida, who was murdered in February 2005. Lunsford was abducted from her home in the early morning of February 24, 2005, by John Couey, a 46-year-old convicted sex offender who lived nearby. Couey held her captive over the weekend, during which she was raped and later murdered by being buried alive. The media extensively covered the investigation and trial of Couey. \n\nLunsford's murder became a \"cause célèbre\" that influenced the introduction of legislation in Florida known as Jessica's Law, designed to protect potential victims and reduce a sexual offender's ability to re-offend, which has since influenced similar legislation in forty-two other states.\n\nOn August 24, 2007, a judge in Inverness convicted Couey for the kidnapping, sexual battery, and first degree murder of Lunsford, and sentenced him to death. However, Couey died of natural causes in 2009, before his sentence could be carried out.\n\nJessica Lunsford disappeared in the night on February 24, 2005, from her home in Homosassa, Florida, and after approximately three weeks of intense searching for her around the area of her home, John Evander Couey was arrested in Savannah, Georgia, for an outstanding warrant of cannabis possession, but was released after questioning because it was only a local warrant. Couey was a 46-year-old long-time resident of Homosassa with an extensive criminal record, listing dozens of arrests for burglary and was a convicted child sex offender. Due to the laws at the time, Couey received only short sentences and was not monitored after release, despite his record of being an experienced trespasser and his repeated sexual offenses against children.\n\nOn March 12, Couey was arrested in Augusta, Georgia, at the request of the Citrus County Sheriff's Office, for questioning about Lunsford's disappearance due to his residence on West Snowbird Court in Homosassa, only 65 yards from Lunsford's home, and his criminal record. Couey stated he did not have anything to do with the girl's disappearance and had moved to Georgia to find a job, only knowing about it from the television news. He was released from police custody after being interviewed.\n\nOn March 14, Couey's half-sister Dorothy Dixon gave permission to police to search her trailer at West Snowbird Court in Homosassa. Couey had lived at the West Snowbird Court residence with Dixon, her boyfriend Matt Dittrich, her daughter and son–in-law, Madie and Gene Secord, and her two-year-old grandson, Joshua. During the search a blood-stained mattress and pillows were found in Couey's closet in his room, and forensic analysis discovered both Couey's and Lunsford's DNA on the mattress. \n\nOn March 17, Couey was arrested and charged with the murder of Jessica Lunsford, and transported to the Citrus County jail in Florida.\n\nOn March 18, 2005, Couey made an audio-recorded and videotaped confession to having kidnapped, raped and murdered Lunsford.\n\nIn his confession, Couey said that he had previously seen Lunsford playing in her yard and thought she was \"about six years\nold.\" On the night of the abduction, Couey had intended to just burglarize the Lunsford's home, but saw Jessica and \"acted on impulse and he took her.\" He entered Lunsford's house at about three o'clock in the morning through an unlocked door, awakened Lunsford, told her \"Don't yell or nothing\", and told her to follow him out of the house. He occupied a trailer along with two women, some away, at the time of Lunsford's abduction. Couey admitted to raping Lunsford in his bedroom, keeping her in his bed that evening, where he raped her again in the morning. Couey put her in his closet and ordered her to remain there, which she did as he reported for work at \"Billy's Truck Lot\". Three days after he abducted her, Couey tricked Jessica into getting into two garbage bags by saying he was going to \"take her home\". He instead buried her alive as he decided he could do nothing else with the girl. He said he \"Didn't want people seeing him and Lunsford across the street.\"\n\nOn March 19, police found Lunsford's body at the residence on West Snowbird Court in Homosassa, buried in a plastic bag in a hole approximately 2½' deep and 2' circular, covered with leaves. Lunsford's body was removed from the ground and transported to the coroner's office, where it was recorded to had undergone \"moderate\" to \"severe\" decomposition. According to the publicly released autopsy reports, Lunsford had poked two fingers through the bags before suffocating to death, and the fingers had skeletonized. The coroner ruled that death would have happened even in best circumstances within 2–3 minutes from lack of oxygen.\n\nAfter the discovery of Lunsford's body at the residence, Dixon stated that a week earlier she had given Couey money for a bus ticket, and he had telephoned her to say he had moved to Savannah, Georgia. Additionally, Dixon and the other residents of the trailer claimed to have never seen Lunsford at the home or noticed anything strange from Couey's room, which had not been used since he was last there.\n\nOn June 30, 2006, a judge ruled that Couey's confession was inadmissible in court because when it was recorded police had not granted Couey's requests for a lawyer, thereby rendering the confession invalid and unreliable under the Fifth and Sixth Amendments of the United States Constitution. Over Couey's objection, the trial court ruled that all evidence collected after the confession, including the recovery of Lunsford's body, would be admitted, as would incriminating statements allegedly made by Couey to investigators and a jail guard.\n\nOn March 7, 2007, Couey was found guilty in Florida of all charges in relation to Lunsford's death, including first degree murder, kidnapping, and capital sexual battery. On March 14, 2007, the jury unanimously recommended the death penalty. The case was appealed to the Florida Supreme Court.\n\nOn August 24, 2007, Couey was sentenced to death, in addition to three consecutive life sentences. However, on September 30, 2009, before the sentences could be carried out, Couey died of natural causes.\n\nFollowing her death, her father, Mark Lunsford, pursued new legislation to provide more stringent tracking of released sex offenders. The Jessica Lunsford Act was named after her. It requires tighter restrictions on sex offenders (such as wearing electronic tracking devices) and increased prison sentences for some convicted sex offenders. \"Jessica's Law\" refers to similar reform acts initiated by other states.\n\nOn February 19, 2008, almost three years to the day after her kidnapping and murder, Jessica's father was represented by Jacksonville, Florida lawyers in a pre-trial brief filed against the Citrus County Sheriff's Office and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. After receiving notice of the pending suit, Citrus County Sheriff Jeff Dawsy stated that he believed the case to be \"baseless... There is only one person in the world that should be held responsible for Jessica Lunsford's death and that's John Couey.\"\n\nFollowing complaints and suggestions from Citrus County residents that the pending litigation was being pursued out of greed and that had he been a better father his child may still be alive, Mark Lunsford and Jacksonville-based attorneys Eric Block and Mark Gelman held a news conference in Jacksonville, where it was stated that the pending litigation was \"not for the money... but for change.\" Lunsford stated that changes were needed in procedures and policies. It is alleged that Couey had Jessica Lunsford alive in the trailer while Citrus County officials visited the trailer, that police dogs indicated Jessica was being held in the direction of the trailer and were ignored, that Citrus County officials actively pursued Mark Lunsford's father as their prime suspect while evidence pointed elsewhere, and that had Citrus County officials followed up on an outstanding warrant issued by Georgia, that Citrus County officials could have entered Couey's residence and possibly saved the child.\n\nMark Lunsford's transformation to a child activist after the murder of his daughter Jessica is the subject of the 2011 documentary film, \"Jessie's Dad\".\n\nThe abduction of Jessica Lunsford was covered in 2013 on the TV series \"FBI: Criminal Pursuit\" in the episode \"Lurking Menace\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3270236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3270236", "title": "National Debutante Cotillion and Thanksgiving Ball", "text": "National Debutante Cotillion and Thanksgiving Ball\n\nThe National Debutante Cotillion and Thanksgiving Ball of Washington, D.C. is an annual dance and formal debutante presentation of young women. It is one of the largest debutante balls in the United States and has been described as one of the nation's most prestigious social events. It is held during Thanksgiving week each year and benefits the Children's National Medical Center.\n\nThe Cotillion was founded in 1949 by Mary-Stuart Montague Price, daughter of Captain Allen Ingram Price, U.S. Naval Academy Class of 1917. She and Elizabeth Stuart are co-chairmen of the event; regional chairmen from many states including California, South Carolina, New York, North Carolina, Ohio and Texas recommend young women and their families for participation.\n\nThe ball is the subject of the 1989 documentary film 'Coming Out'. In his review, the \"New York Times\" critic Vincent Canby stated that it has \"little to do with the kind of old-fashioned 'coming out' rituals and debutante 'seasons' that once so fascinated the social outsiders Scott Fitzgerald wrote about\" and that \"the escorts for the ball are ... bussed in from nearby military camps and from West Point with the promise of a free meal\". \n\n"}
{"id": "40095115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40095115", "title": "National Prize of Plastic Arts of Venezuela", "text": "National Prize of Plastic Arts of Venezuela\n\nNational Prize of Plastic Arts of Venezuela is an annual award given to various artists from that country, specifically the field of drawing, printmaking and drawing pictorial. It is one of the National Culture Awards.\n\nThe reward is delivered continuously since 1947. In 1952 awarding paused for about 19 years, resumed in 1971. The granting is made on an annual basis since its first edition until 2001, when it turned biennial. An exception to this rule was 2003, when it waited three years to give the next award, and then return to biennial delivery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53665036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53665036", "title": "Palnati Yudham (History)", "text": "Palnati Yudham (History)\n\nThis is a battle that took place sometime in the years 1178-1182 AD between Nalagamaraju, a Haihaya Kshatriya king who ruled the area of Palnadu in Guntur District, and his step brother Malidevaraju. Nalagamaraju was supported by the Reddy lady Nagamma while Malidevaraju was supported by Recherla Brahmanaidu who was a social reformer.\n\nPalnadu is the region located in the south-western area of Guntur district and covering some part of Prakasam district. It is spread over the revenue divisions of Narsaraopet and Gurazala in Guntur district and Markapur in Prakasam district.\n\nWhen Anuguraju of the Haiahays migrated to the Andhra area from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh, he clashed with the Velanati Chodas of Velnadu who ruled from Chandavolu. Velanati Gonkaraju installed Anuguraju as king of Palnadu at Gurajala after giving his daughter Mailama Devi to him in marriage. As Anuguraju is non Telugu speaking and has migrated to Andhra area only at that time, and is unfamiliar with the local people, Gonkaraju appointed Dodda Naidu of Recherla Gotra as his minister to guide him. Anugu Raju had 2 more wives, Viravidya Devi and Bhoorama Devi. Anuguraju was however childless and adopted the eldest son of his minister Dodda Naidu. Soon after this Mailama Devi gave birth to a son called Nalagamaraju. Disillusioned with the turn of events Dodda Naidu stepped down as minister of Anuguraju and made his younger son Brahma Naidu as a minister instead. Nalagamaraju became king after Anuguraju. \n\nNalagamaraju had a step brother called Malidevaraju who married a princess from the Kalachuris of Kalyanadurga in Karnataka. \nBrahma Naidu was highly respected in his time and is a warrior, scholar and reformer. Brahmanaidu captured the fort of Shimoga from the Veera Saivaites on the request of the Kalyani Chalukyan King of Kalyani. The king in turn gave his daughter Sirimadevi in marriage to Malidevaraju. Brahma Naidu was a staunch Vaishnavaite and founded a new sect called Veera Vaishnavism as against Veera Saivism which was prevalent then and which allowed the Sudras into its fold but not untouchables. Brahma Naidu allowed equal status to the untouchables. The social reforms like Chapa Koodu (having food sitting side by side on a mat irrespective of caste) initiated by Brahma Naidu have antagonized the conservatives of the Palnadu society. Brahma Naidu did not stop with Chapakoodu and in this he is centuries, nay 800 years ahead of the present day social reformers. He had all castes including the scheduled Castes in his army. In fact Kannamanedu from the Scheduled caste was treated almost like Brahma Naidus own son and was made the commander of his army. \n\nThe conservatives found an able leader in one reddy lady named Nagamma who is known as Nayakuralu. Nagamma joined the court of Nalagamaraju and gained his confidence. Thereafter, she made Nalagamarju displace Brahma Naidus men from key positions. The differences in the court and the royal family grew which led to the division of the Kingdom. \n\nNalagamaraju’s half brother Malidevarju moved to Macherla and set up a separate kingdom there. Brahma Naidu moved to Macherla along with Malidevaraju. \n\nMutual suspicion between the two kingdoms grew and Nagamma under the pretext of Malidevas defeat in a cockfight exiled them for 7 years from Palnadu. After the exile Brahma Naidu sent Alaraju the brother in law of Malidevaraju to claim Malidevaraju’s share. The demand was turned down and Alaraju was poisoned in Cherlagudipadu by the orders of Nagamma. His wife Perindevi committed Sati with Alaraju. This enraged Malidevaraju and Kommaraju who was the father of Alaraju. Brahma Naidu then declared war on Gurajala. \n\nThe battle was fought at Karempudi on the banks of the river Naguleru. Nalagamaraju was supported by the Kakatiyas, Hoysalas and Paricchedis. Malidevaraju was supported by the Kalachuris of Kalyanadurga. \n\nNalagamarajus side was victorious in the battle and Malidevaraju died fighting. Brahma Naidu was forced to reinstate Nalagamarju. Balachandrudu the valiant son of Brahma Naidu died in this battle along with his wife Manchala. A whole generation of Andhra warriors perished in the battle. This battle weakened the Velnati Chodas, and this later helped the Kakatiyas to take over their domain.\n\n\"Palnati Veeracharitra \" written by the famous poet Srinatha in the Telugu language.\n\nhttps://archive.org/details/palnativeerachar022033mbp\n\nhttp://www.dli.ernet.in/handle/2015/395163\n"}
{"id": "58684925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58684925", "title": "Prisión Fatal (January 2017)", "text": "Prisión Fatal (January 2017)\n\nPrisión Fatal (2017) was a professional wrestling major event, scripted and produced by the Mexico based International Wrestling Revolution Group (IWRG) professional wrestling promotion. The event took on January 1, 2017, at \"Arena Naucalpan\" in Naucalpan, State of Mexico, IWRG's main venue. The show was also the IWRG 21st Anniversary Show, marking the creation of IWRG on January 1, 1996. It was the seventh time IWRG held a Prisión Fatal event, all of which featured the eponymous Prisión Fatal (Spanish for \"Deadly Prison\") Steel cage match as the main event. In the Prisión Fatal match the last person remaining in the cage is forced to unmasked as per the match stipulation.\n\nFor this version of the Prisión Fatal steel cage match IWRG booked Golden Magic, Imposible, Pirata Morgan Jr. and Relámpago, who all risked their wrestling mask. During the match both Golden Magic and Relámpago escaped the cage, leading to Imposible pinning Pirata Morgan Jr. to win the match. Afterward, Pirata Morgan Jr. unmasked and revealed that his real name was Pedro Ortiz Soto, 35 years old at the time and that he had been a professional wrestler for 15 years. The show featured four additional matches\n\nIn the 1960s, wrestler Adolfo \"Pirata\" Moreno began promoting wrestling shows in his native Naucalpan, State of Mexico, Mexico, bringing in wrestlers from Empresa Mexicana de Lucha Libre (EMLL) to Naucalpan to work shows with local wrestlers from the Mexican independent circuit. Initially he ran sporadic shows, but later on began promoting regular shows at \"Arena KO Al Gusto\". In the 1970s he served as the local Universal Wrestling Association (UWA) promoter under the name Promociones Moreno efforts. In 1977 Moreno bought Arena KO Al Gusto instead of renting it. After buying the old arena it was demolished to make way for a new arena, Arena Naucalpan, an arena designed specifically for wrestling shows, with a maximum capacity of 2,400 spectators. Arena Naucalpan became the permanent home for Promociones Moreno.\n\nIn late 1995 Adolfo Moreno decided to create his own promotion, using a regular core roster supplemented with wrestlers from Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL, formerly EMLL), creating the International Wrestling Revolution Group (IWRG; sometimes referred to as Grupo Internacional Revolución in Spanish) on January 1, 1996. From that point on Arena Naucalpan became the main venue for IWRG, hosting the majority of their weekly shows and all of their major shows as well. The first IWRG Anniversary Show was held on January 1, 1997 with all subsequent shows being held on or right after January 1 each year, all at Arena Naucalpan. Posters for the January 1 show mistakenly lists it as the 20th anniversary show, but also bills it as a Prisión Fatal (\"Deadly Prison\") show.\n\nStarting as far back as at least 2000, the Mexican wrestling promotion International Wrestling Revolution Group (IWRG; Sometimes referred to as \"Grupo Internacional Revolución\" in Spanish) has held several annual events where the main event was a multi-man steel cage match where the last wrestler left in the cage would be forced to either remove their wrestling mask or have their hair shaved off under \"Lucha de Apuestas\", or \"bet match\", rules. From 2012 IWRG has promoted a variation of the steel cage match under the moniker Prisión Fatal at least once a year since its inception. The Prisión Fatal has the added twist that each competitor is chained by the wrist to the cage with a long steel chain and to escape they fight have to get a key to unlock their chain before they are able to escape. The added chain helps to distinguish it from other Steel cage matches held throughout the year such as the IWRG Guerra del Golfo (\"Gulf War\"), IWRG Guerra de Sexos (\"War of the Sexes\") or IWRG El Castillo del Terror (\"The Tower of Terror\") shows. The Prisión Fatal shows, as well as the majority of the IWRG shows in general, are held in \"Arena Naucalpan\", owned by the promoters of IWRG and their main arena. The 2017 Prisión Fatal show was the seventh time that IWRG promoted a show under that name and the third time the loser would unmask as a result.\n\nThe \"Prisión Fatal\" event featured five professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nFor the main event of the show, Golden Magic, Imposible, Pirata Morgan Jr. and Relámpago all had individual chains tied to their wrist, secured with a padlock. The chains were long enough to allow the wrestlers to move around the cage, but not long enough to allow them to escape. The first three wrestlers who managed to climb up a ladder and get a key could unlock their change and climb out. During the first portions of the match Relámpago and Impossible focused on each other, while Pirata Morgan Jr. and Golden Magic fought each other, pairing up based on the storyline feuds that had led up to the cage match. Golden Magic was the first wrestler to escape the cage, followed by Relámpago. In the closing moments of the match, it looked like Pirata Morgan Jr. would escape the match, but as he climbed the cage Golden Magic returned to the arena and his rival over the head with a steel chair. Moments later Relámpago tried to prevent Imposible to escape, but Golden Magic prevented it, allowing Imposible to climb out of the cage.\n\nAfter the match was finished Pirata Morgan Jr. stood in the middle of the ring, removing his torn, blood-soaked mask and announced that his real name was Pedro Ortiz Soto, legitimately the son of Pirata Morgan (Pedro Ortiz Villanueva). Then stated that he was 35 years old and had been a luchador for 15 years.\n"}
{"id": "24254916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24254916", "title": "Record years", "text": "Record years\n\nThe record years () describes the economy of Sweden during the international post–World War II economic expansion, until the 1973 oil crisis, and largely coinciding with the mandates of prime ministers Tage Erlander and earliest years of Olof Palme. The original use was a satirical left-wing description of the years 1968-70.\n\nSweden had maintained neutrality during both world wars, and entered the post-war boom with industrial and demographic advantages. Sweden also received aid from the Marshall Plan. Between 1947 and 1974, the Swedish economy grew at an average rate of 12.5% annually. The urban population, living in towns of over 15,000 people, grew from 38% of the total population in 1931 to 74% by 1973. Sustained by an export boom of automobiles, heavy machinery, electronics, ship-building, and heavy weapons, the per capita income increased by as much as 2000%. Sweden had successfully moved into the high-income group of countries by 1955-56.\n\n"}
{"id": "46230881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46230881", "title": "Relief (military)", "text": "Relief (military)\n\nRelief, as a military term, refers to the breaking of a siege or an encirclement by an outside force. Relief may occur in conjunction with a breakout. It is one of four possible conclusions of investment, the others being a breakout, surrender or reduction. The force that effects relief is known as the \"relieving force\". Following relief, the town or fortification is said to have been \"relieved\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42120287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42120287", "title": "Rey de Reyes (2014)", "text": "Rey de Reyes (2014)\n\nRey de Reyes (Spanish for \"King of Kings\") was a professional wrestling event produced by the Lucha Libre AAA World Wide (AAA) promotion, which took take place on March 16, 2014, at Plaza de Toros Monumental Lorenzo Garza in Monterrey, Nuevo León, Mexico. The event was the 18th event produced under the Rey de Reyes name and also the 18th time that the Rey de Reyes tournament was held.\n\nStarting in 1997 and every year since then the Mexican \"Lucha Libre\", or professional wrestling, company Lucha Libre AAA World Wide (AAA, or Triple A) has held a Rey de Reyes (Spanish for \"King of Kings') show in the spring. The 1997 version was held in February, while all subsequent Rey de Reyes shows were held in March. As part of their annual Rey de Reyes event AAA holds the eponymious Rey de Reyes tournament to determine that specific year's \"Rey\". Most years the show hosts both the qualifying round and the final match, but on occasion the qualifying matches have been held prior to the event as part of AAA's weekly television shows. The traditional format consists of four preliminary rounds, each a Four-man elimination match with each of the four winners face off in the tournament finals, again under elimination rules. There have been years where AAA has employed a different format to determine a winner. The winner of the Rey de Reyes tournament is given a large ornamental sword to symbolize their victory, but is normally not guaranteed any other rewards for winning the tournament, although some years becoming the Rey de Reyes has earned the winner a match for the AAA Mega Championship. From 1999 through 2009 AAA also held an annual \"Reina de Reinas\" (\"Queen of Queens\") tournament, but later turned that into an actual championship that could be defended at any point during the year, abandoning the annual tournament concept. The 2014 show was the 18th Rey de Reyes show in the series.\n\nThe Rey de Reyes show featured seven professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing, scripted feuds, plots, and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n"}
{"id": "7907901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7907901", "title": "Roger Sutton", "text": "Roger Sutton\n\nRoger Sutton (born ) is a business leader in Christchurch, New Zealand. He was chief executive of power lines company Orion New Zealand Limited from 2003 until 13 June 2011, when he commenced as CEO of the Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Authority. He resigned in 2014 after being found guilty of serious misconduct by the State Services Commission.\n\nSutton grew up in Wellington, Gisborne and Hamilton. He graduated in 1986 from the University of Canterbury with a Bachelor of Engineering (Mechanical).\n\nMr Sutton commenced his career with the Electricity Corporation of New Zealand (ECNZ) as a mechanical engineer at New Plymouth Power Station in 1987. From 1988 to 1989, he worked for ECNZ as a business analyst. From 1996 to 1998, he was general manager trading at Southpower, the electricity generation and distribution arm of Christchurch City Council.\n\nAs a consequence of Max Bradford's reform of the electricity sector, Southpower had to be split, and Sutton remained with the energy distribution part of one of its successors, Orion New Zealand Ltd, majority-owned by Christchurch City Holdings. From 1998 to 2002, he was general manager commercial at Orion. In December 2002, he was appointed general manager operations. In early March 2003, he became acting CEO of Orion, and took the position of CEO on 1 May 2003, being responsible for 500 staff. In 2011, his salary was $700k. , he is chairman of Connetics, a fully owned Orion subsidiary. He is chair of the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Authority.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Sutton was a member of the New Zealand Energy Market rules committee and the market rules structure groups. During 2001, Sutton was seconded to the office of the Minister of Energy, Pete Hodgson, during the country's electricity crisis.\n\nOn 12 May 2011, Earthquake Recovery Minister Gerry Brownlee announced Sutton as the first permanent CEO of the Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Authority (CERA). The appointment is for a five-year period. Sutton replaced the interim CEO John Ombler. On 13 June 2011, Sutton commenced the new role, which has a remuneration of $500k. The new role, where he has a staff of about 50, pays $200k less than his previous role at Orion.\n\nSutton's appointment was widely praised and welcome from all sectors of society, with the popularity gained by Sutton's reaction to the way power was restored, staff praised and information communicated after the February 2011 Christchurch earthquake. Christchurch mayor Bob Parker said that Sutton \"would be very popular\". The CEO of the Canterbury Employers' Chamber of Commerce, Peter Townsend, said it was the \"most important Government appointment of the year\" and that Sutton had all the right attributes for the job. The Central City Business Association manager Paul Lonsdale said that Sutton had shown through his reaction to three earthquakes (this counts the Boxing Day aftershock as a separate event) that he is very pragmatic.\n\nThe chairman of the Canterbury Communities' Earthquake Recovery Network (CanCERN), Tom McBrearty, said that Sutton \"brings two key ingredients – leadership around business and emphatic values around the community.\" Labour MP Ruth Dyson, whose Port Hills electorate covers the area in east Christchurch worst affected by the last earthquake, said that Sutton was the perfect choice and gave him \"12 out of 10\".\n\nSutton was first suggested to lead the city's rebuild by former mayor Garry Moore and Wigram MP Jim Anderton in early March 2011. In 2011 he was an award winner at the Energy Excellence Awards for outstanding contribution to the sector.\n\nSutton resigned as CEO of CERA on 17 November 2014, after a complaint from a female staffer about inappropriate behaviour. An investigation by the States Services Commission found Sutton guilty of 'serious misconduct' but did not recommend that he should be dismissed. State Services Commissioner Iain Rennie subsequently came under fire for his handling of the investigation. He allowed Sutton to give his version of events at a press conference announcing his resignation - even though Sutton and the complainant were both bound by a confidentiality agreement. Several high-level Government officials also attended the press conference giving the impression that the Government supported Sutton.\n\nEqual Employment Opportunities Commissioner, Dr Jackie Blue, wrote to Mr Rennie about his handling of the allegations against Mr Sutton including the breach of confidentiality saying: \"I am concerned about the chilling effect the current situation will have on anyone else in the public sector who is being sexually harassed and wants to make a complaint about that harassment.\"\n\nSutton is married to the former journalist Jo Malcolm. They have three sons. Actress Robyn Malcolm is his sister in law.\n"}
{"id": "2172482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2172482", "title": "Saeftinghe", "text": "Saeftinghe\n\nSaeftinghe or Saaftinge was a town in the southwest Netherlands, located in eastern Zeelandic Flanders, near Nieuw-Namen. It existed until 1584. It is now a swamp known as the Drowned Land of Saeftinghe (\"\") and an official nature reserve area. The land is a crosspoint where the river Scheldt meets the salty waters of the North Sea in the estuary Western Scheldt. It is a treacherous place where the tides easily consume large stretches of land in a matter of seconds and must not be explored without an experienced guide.\n\nSaeftinghe was drained in the 13th century under the management of the abbey of Ter Doest. Willem van Saeftinghe was one of the best known occupants of the abbey and gave his name to the stretch of land claimed from the sea. Up to 1570, the land was very fertile polder. Agriculture, peat burning and trade turned Saeftinghe into one of the most prosperous places in the region. There were three additional settlements nearby: Namen, Sint-Laureins, and Casuwele.\n\nMost of the land around the town was lost in the All Saint's flood of 1570 (the \"Allerheiligenvloed\"). Four years later the drowned land reached into what is now Belgium. Only Saeftinghe and some surrounding land managed to remain dry.\n\nIn 1584, during the Eighty Years' War, Dutch soldiers found themselves forced to destroy the last intact dike and Saeftinghe sunk into the waters of the Scheldt. Attempts to reclaim the area were made throughout history; the most serious project taking place in 1907, but even then only the was conquered from the sea. Nowadays a hamlet is located within the reclaimed portions of land, called .\nSaaftinge itself has never been retrieved.\nIn 1970, all of the area was incorporated into the municipality of Hulst, when Graauw en Langendam and Clinge ceased to exist.\n\nWithin the historical municipal limits, Saaftinge today has a population of 55. The flag consists of a blue lion rampant on a white field. The lion originates from the personal shield of Willem van Saeftinghe.\n\nA legend of Saeftinghe attributes the All Saint's flood to capturing a mermaid and not setting her free. This caused the region to be cursed by the merman, and led to the flood that destroyed the towns of Sint-Laureins, Namen and Casuwele, killing all inhabitants. The legend holds that a tower bell calls for help from the sunken town.\n\nA visitor centre opened in Emmadorp in 1997, from where excursions to the nature reserve depart. From 1997 to 2007, an average of around 12,000 visitors per year went on excursions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49797838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49797838", "title": "Six Days of Berlin", "text": "Six Days of Berlin\n\nThe Six Days of Berlin is a six-day track cycling race held annually in Berlin, Germany. The event was first held in 1909. Klaus Bugdahl holds the record of victories with nine.\n"}
{"id": "352835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352835", "title": "Soviet ballroom dances", "text": "Soviet ballroom dances\n\nCompetitions in Ballroom dancing in the former Soviet Union were held in three dance categories:\n\n\"Standard dances\", \"Latin dances\", and Soviet dances (\"Советская программа\").\n\nThe Soviet category comprised\n\nWith the exception of Polka, these dances were choreographed basing on some folk dances of Soviet republics.\n\nThe former three are \"fast\" or \"rhythmic\" dances, the latter two are \"slow\" or \"lyrical\" ones.\n\nAll of them had distinctive basic techniques. The meter was or for all of them. The hold was either open or loose, without body contact. Polka had the tightest hold. Polka, Sudarushka and Russian Lyrical were progressive dances, i.e., moving along the line of dance. Rylio and Varu-Varu were of \"stationary\" type.\n\nSoviet ballroom dances were a relatively new creation. This dance category was introduced with the stated agenda to counterbalance the influence of Western culture (i.e., Ballroom dancing, rock music, the Beatles, etc.). During the relatively short existence of Soviet Ballroom, only the first three had a chance of becoming true Ballroom/Social dances, judging by the flexibility and spontaneity of choreography, willingness of dancers to dance them during practice hours, etc. Rylio had all chances to repeat the evolution of Swing dances: it was danced quite differently in Baltic republics (smoothly), in Belarus (jumpy), and in Moscow. On the contrary, a heat of Sudarushka during a ballroom competition often looked like a performance of a formation team, all competitors dancing almost the same routine. \n\nAt the peak of popularity some huge ball rooms of Moscow Palaces of Culture crowded parties of several hundred of ballroom couples in 4-5 concentric circles of Sudarushka.\n\nToday the category is obsolete, but the dances themselves survived, moved back to the category of folk dances. At some dance events, such as \"Neva Cup\" (Невский кубок) in St. Petersburg, balls of Esta-Mephi club, Moscow, or \"Russian Formation Cup-2007\" held in Tyumen these dances comprise the competition category of \"Homeland Dances\" (Отечественные танцы).\n\nThe count cues could be any of 12345678, 12341234, 1&2&3&4& or 1&2&1&2&.\n\nAll steps/taps are in place, with slight one-foot skipping action. Author - choreographer - Adomas Gineitis\n\nThe dance is based on simple steps and jumpy movements created in 1950s in Latvia. It may be danced with any in 4/4 time disco music.\n\nThe dance is based on Russian \"khorovod\" dances. the dance is of vivid and light character, of medium to faster tempo in 2/4 time.\n\nThe dance is based on Russian folk tunes. It has a soft and smooth character, danced at medium tempo in 2/4 or 4/4 time.\n\nThe recommended tunes are \"Русский лирический\" (\"Russian Lyrical\") or \"Подмосковные вечера\" (\"Moscow Nights\")\n\nBallroom dance manuals of Soviet times list quite a few other Soviet dances promoted to counter the influence of the \"Western way of life\", created basing on folk dances of the peoples of the Soviet Union and Soviet Bloc:\n\n"}
{"id": "49151270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49151270", "title": "Soviet grain procurement crisis of 1928", "text": "Soviet grain procurement crisis of 1928\n\nThe Soviet grain procurement crisis of 1928, sometimes referred to as \"the crisis of NEP,\" was a pivotal economic event which took place in the Soviet Union beginning in January 1928 during which the quantities of wheat, rye, and other cereal crops made available for purchase by the state fell to levels regarded by planners as inadequate to support the needs of the country's urban population. Failure of the state to make successful use of the price system to generate sufficient grain sales was met with a regimen of increasingly harsh administrative sanctions against the Soviet peasantry. The state of national emergency which followed led to the termination of the New Economic Policy and spurred a move towards the collectivization of agriculture in 1929.\n\nThe Russian Revolution of November 1917 ushered in a period of civil war and economic dislocation, in which the ruling All-Union Communist Party (bolsheviks) (VKP) made use of forced grain requisitions ( \"prodrazvyorstka),\" trading to the peasantry a mix of virtually worthless paper currency and an altogether insufficient quantity of consumer goods in exchange for each household's marketable surplus — effectively a seizure. Viewed by most Soviet contemporaries as a temporary wartime expedient, this system of \"War Communism\" was extremely unpopular with Russia's grain-producing peasantry and the cause of a massive wave of unrest and revolts that threatened to fatally destabilize the government.\n\nThis force-based system of War Communism was abandoned in the spring of 1921 with the adoption of the so-called \"New Economic Policy\" (NEP), under which a stable, gold-based currency was restored and a return made to the market system. Instead of forced requisitions of all marketable surpluses, a food tax ( \"prodnalog)\" was implemented which necessitated peasant households providing a limited portion of their production to the state, after which households would be free to sell its remaining surplus not needed for household survival on the open market. By 1924 this system of \"prodnalog\" had been replaced by a money tax, with Soviet state grain requisitions accomplished via buying and selling.\n\nAlthough the return to the market system in agriculture was ideologically problematic for many Bolsheviks, the years from 1922 to 1926 were successful in practical terms, with total agricultural production by the peasant-based economy fully returning to pre-revolutionary levels. Production of cereal grains approximated pre-war figures, potato production greatly exceeded such figures, and livestock populations, gravely impacted during the war, returned to normalcy for pigs and sheep while the count of horses was slowly and steadily restored.\n\nThe period of War Communism saw Soviet cities largely depopulated when former peasants returned \"en masse\" to their native villages amidst the ongoing economic collapse. This trend was reversed under NEP and industrial facilities were restored and restarted, approaching the pre-war levels of output during the second half of the 1920s. Further growth of the economy and improvement of living conditions, it was felt by Soviet planners, would require new investment in factory facilities and capital goods. With access to world capital markets severely restricted to the revolutionary Soviet regime, these funds that would need to be generated by the state either through a loosening of the backing of the gold-based currency, a raising in the level of taxation of the largely rural population, or some combination of these factors.\n\nCommunist Party penetration of the countryside remained weak, amounting to an average of 1 rural Communist for every 6 village soviets — a mere 0.52% of the rural population vs. 1.78% of the total population in 1927. Moreover, these rural Communists, who took leading roles in village soviets and cooperatives, included a disproportionate number of comparatively well-to-do peasants — a social group, party and non-party, which dominated local administration. This persistent strength of so-called \"kulaks\" in the Soviet countryside further contributed to the dissatisfaction with the economic status quo on the part of many members of the largely urban Communist Party.\n\nFrom the end of 1926 demand among planners and party activists for a new program of mass industrialization that would modernize the largely peasant country. Although NEP was seen at the time as a permanent structure throughout 1927, the 15th Congress of the VKP(b), held in Moscow in December 1927, acceded to this sentiment, approving a new program for the industrialization of the USSR — an acceleration which would ultimately prove incompatible with a small peasantry freely exchanging a comparatively small fraction of its production in the marketplace.\n\nCollectivization of agriculture was held by the Communists to be the essential corollary of any successful industrial campaign, it being faithfully maintained that collective organization would eliminate the inefficiencies inherent in capitalist agriculture, thereby expanding production and making a greater quantity of grain available to the state for conversion to capital goods.\n\nThroughout the early years of the Russian revolution the peasantry faced a shortage of basic farm and household items, including agricultural implements, construction material, cloth, and finished consumer goods. This marked a continuation of the wartime situation, in which industrial production had been moved from a consumer orientation to fulfillment of the military needs of the state in the war against the German empire. The Bolshevik regime had never been able to catch up with pent up demand, and state and cooperative supplies remained spotty, while the prices demanded by private traders remained high.\n\nA so-called Scissors Crisis had developed in the early years of the New Economic Policy as prices of consumer goods escalated while market prices of agricultural products fell. Early in 1927 the Communist Party decided to address the disparity by lowering the selling prices of industrial goods by approximately 10%. Although this pricing decision was meant to undercut the high prices charged by private traders, in practice it only exacerbated the miserable supply situation as goods were snapped up from the market, leaving the inventories of state supply agents barren. Those goods which were available tended to be committed to larger towns, located along railway lines, rather than to smaller villages deep in the countryside.\n\nThe net result of this situation was a goods famine that provided an inadequate incentive for peasants to participate in grain sales to state grain purchasing agents, who had little of practical value to offer the peasantry in exchange.\n\nThe Soviet economic year (October 1 to September 30) 1925/26 had generated state grain procurement of 8.4 million tons. This was far exceeded in 1926/27, when a post-revolutionary record harvest of 76.8 million tons resulted in a state procurement of 10.6 million tons at stable prices. No upward price adjustment had been necessary owing to the massive size of the harvest, which resulted in a supply glut. Expectations for the coming year were raised accordingly, with planned procurement for the coming economic year 1927/28 exceeding quantities obtained during the previous year of record harvest.\n\nIn addition to planned establishment of a new state grain reserve of 819,000 tons, economic planners sought increased quantities of grain for export to the European market as a means of generating the foreign currency needed for purchase of capital goods from abroad.\n\nCalls for an official policy of centrally-planned industrialization had emanated from the Left Opposition headed by Leon Trotsky throughout the middle 1920s, with an explicit criticism levied in a September 1927 program of a \"frank and open drift to the Right,\" to accommodation with the most wealthy segment of the peasantry to the detriment of national industrialization and further development of a socialist economy. This demand was easy to ignore when grain was readily available to the state on the market and unused factory capacity remained to be restarted. However, late in 1927 the pervasive optimism associated with the boom period of NEP began to dissipate.\n\nA severe slump in state grain collections began in October 1927, following the new harvest of wheat and rye. This trend continued in November and December, with planned total procurements for the quarter of 7 million tons missed by a massive 2.1 million tons. This quantity was not only insufficient for creation of the planned grain reserve and the meeting of export targets, but was viewed by planners as insufficient for the feeding of the nation's cities and the members of the Red Army.\nReasons for the decline set off a fierce debate in the ranks of the VKP(b). Party leader Joseph Stalin depicted the shortfall as political in nature, the result of \"sabotage\" by the rich peasantry in an effort to force the state to raise grain procurement prices. This Stalin likened to blackmail — forcing the state to abandon its industrialization plans in favor of filling their own pockets with the proceeds of sales to the market. Stalin's joint leader of the party during previous years, Nikolai Bukharin, regarded this perspective as a \"fairy tale,\" instead arguing that rather than hoarding and speculation the cause of grain supply difficulties was a poor harvest, combined with insufficiently attractive procurement prices that deterred sales to state grain collectors.\n\nThe crisis in grain collections caused a split of the top leadership of the Communist Party, with a majority of party activists rallying around Stalin, who had now begun vigorously espousing the virtues of rapid industrialization previously associated with Trotsky and the Left Opposition. Only a minority supported Bukharin and his call for continued social peace between the state and the peasantry and his criticism of those who would \"neglect a sense of moderation, to skip over necessary stages\" on the slow and measured path to industrial development.\n\nStalin and the rapid industrializers retained effective control over the VKP(b), controlling 6 of 9 seats of the party's Political Bureau, which handled matters of day-to-day governance, with Bukharin able to muster the support of Alexei Rykov and Mikhail Tomsky in favor of a moderate pace of industrialization and social peace. Behind the scenes Stalin organized diligently, obliquely criticizing moderates in speeches to groups of party activists and with his new right-hand man, Viacheslav Molotov maintaining effective control of the official party daily newspaper, \"Pravda,\" and efforts being made to take over editorial control of the party's monthly theoretical magazine, \"Bolshevik.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17769243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17769243", "title": "Steve Pisanos", "text": "Steve Pisanos\n\nSteven Nicholas Pisanos (born Spiros Pisanos (); November 10, 1919 – June 6, 2016) was a Greek-American aviator and flying ace who served as a fighter pilot with the British Royal Air Force (RAF) and later the United States Army Air Forces in World War II. He was credited with shooting down 10 enemy aircraft while flying with the American 4th Fighter Group. Post-war, he achieved the rank of colonel in the United States Air Force, flew in the Vietnam War and, by the end of his career in 1974, had received 33 decorations and distinctions. His autobiography, \"The Flying Greek\", was published in April 2008.\n\nPisanos was born in Metaxourgeio, Athens, Greece. The son of a railroad engineer, he was fascinated as a young boy by the sight of a Greek biplane maneuvering over his head in Kolonos and became obsessed by the wish to become a flyer. For the time being, he had to settle for frequent trips to a military aerodrome in the north of Athens, Dekelia (Tatoi), to watch the planes up close. Eventually, he became known to the personnel there who allowed him to wander in the hangars and sit in the planes. When he left school he searched for a chance to go to the United States where he knew he could take private flying lessons. In 1938 he was employed as a navy merchant seaman but at first chance he fled his ship to the docks of Baltimore and then to New York where he started working as a clandestine immigrant in US.\n\nStarting with only a few dollars in his pocket he worked in a bakery, then as a tray boy in Plainfield, New Jersey and spent most of his income for English and flying lessons, finally earning a private pilot's license in 1939. His popularity at work and at home enabled him to convert from an illegal alien to a lawful immigrant worker in the United States. For convenience people started calling him ‘Steve’ a short name that was later to replace his original Greek name.\n\nAfter the war broke out and Greece was attacked in 1940, he tried to join the United States Army Air Forces but he was denied due to US neutrality. However, the Royal Air Force (RAF) was informally recruiting aviators in English-speaking countries; Britain, being an ally of Greece, accepted him. Candidates were evaluated in an airfield in California, where Pisanos was chosen as a pilot officer candidate for the RAF. After initial training in Canada and England, Pisanos joined the American-manned No. 71 Eagle Squadron while still a Greek citizen. He mainly flew the Spitfire Vb on low-level strafing attack missions over occupied Europe. He was again a very popular person and pilot within his group.\nPisanos' lack of American citizenship prevented him from joining a purely American combat unit (i.e. one commanded by American officers). At the same time, the Greek government-in-exile was recruiting him for one of its new squadrons created in North Africa. Pisanos' comrades decided the solution was to convince the United States government to grant him citizenship under the name of 'Steve Pisanos', which it did on May 3, 1942, with the help of his commander, Squadron Leader Chesley G. Peterson. Pisanos became the first American citizen naturalized while on foreign soil.\n\nWhen the United States entered World War II and started establishing air bases in England, the pilots in the three ‘Eagle Squadrons' were the only combat-experienced American pilots in Europe. A decision was made to integrate them into the US Army Air Forces. However, the pilots had developed strong links between them and preferred to stay in the same units with their present composition as pilots of the newly established 4th Fighter Group. Thus, Pisanos' unit, No. 71 Squadron RAF, became the 334th Fighter Squadron in September 1942.\n\nIn March 1943, the 4th Fighter Group started flying the new P-47 Thunderbolt fighter. As a member of the 334th Fighter Squadron, Pisanos' plane (P-47D-23-AAF Serial Number 42-27945) was coded QP-D and had an emblem of ‘Miss Plainfield’ painted on it as nose art He scored his first 2 confirmed victories over northeastern Belgium escorting US bombers while he had another 2 non-confirmed ones around the same time. He was soon promoted to the rank of Flight Lieutenant. He participated in more sorties in a variety of fighter tasks mainly over northwestern France, achieving another 4 confirmed kills against Messerschmitt Bf 109 and Focke Wulf Fw 190 fighters. Back in New Jersey people who knew him and heard the news of his successes prompted the local press to write an article. The title of the first one was 'The Flying Greek'. This title influenced him, and some 60 years later he named his book after it.\n\nAt the end of 1943, Pisanos had 6 confirmed and 2 probable air victories. In January 1944, the 4th Fighter Group received the new P-51 Mustang fighter. Pisanos' new plane (P-51B-7-NA, AAF Serial Number 43-6798) was also coded QP-B. On a mission over southern France on May 5, 1944, when the squadron escorted B-17 bombers to Bordeaux, he scored another 2 confirmed victories. On his return his engine began running rough, and he had to belly-land between Le Havre and Évreux in France. Although initially blamed on a spark plug malfunction, it is more likely due to use of 150-octane fuel. Once the USAAF switched to 100-octane fuel, problems with spark plug burn-out ceased. On this very mission, on the same day, Charles ‘Chuck’ Yeager was downed as well, near the Pyrenees, and was able to escape to Spain.\n\nPisanos was helped by the French Resistance to hide from the Germans and was then given a false identity to pass as a distant family member to escape via Spain. Instead, he stayed in the French Resistance and was later moved to Paris. From there he established contact with agents of the OSS, collecting information about German traffic movement in the area, and participated in a number of local fights alongside the French until the liberation of Paris. Nearly all downed American pilots who evaded capture were returned home to the United States for fear of being recaptured by the Germans and succumbing to torture that could reveal the French helpers and their Resistance networks. After Pisanos was moved back to the US, he was given the task of flight-testing captured enemy aircraft to analyze their performance.\n\nAfter World War II, Pisanos flew the first operational United States jet fighter, the P-80 Shooting Star. After having a short career as a commercial pilot of 4-engined airliners with TWA, he returned to the United States Air Force due to his jet-flying experience as a Captain. Pisanos attended the USAF Flight Performance School (now the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School) and graduated with class 45D. Major Pisanos was tasked with testing advanced jet fighters, namely the F-102 Delta Dagger, with which he often flew at the supersonic speed of Mach 1.5 at an altitude of 50,000 feet. He continued serving with other units, testing new weapons development. He also served in Vietnam and near the end of his career as a Colonel, and a member of JUSMAAG, helped the Hellenic Air Force to integrate the F-4E Phantom II jet fighter. In 1974, he retired from the Air Force and lived in San Diego, California, with his wife Sofia.\n\nIn 2008, Pisanos was inducted into the International Air & Space Hall of Fame at the San Diego Air & Space Museum. In 2010, Pisanos was awarded the French Legion of Honor, the French Republic's highest decoration, in a ceremony at the San Diego Air & Space Museum. The award, presented by the Consul General of France in Los Angeles, recognized Pisanos' outstanding achievements in World War II as a fighter pilot and in support of the French Resistance.\n\nPisanos died on June 6, 2016 from heart failure at his home in Rancho Bernardo, San Diego, California, aged 96.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40318083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40318083", "title": "Timeline of the Peninsular War", "text": "Timeline of the Peninsular War\n\nThe following table shows the sequence of events of the Peninsular War (1807–1814). It includes major battles, smaller actions, uprisings, sieges and other related events that took place during that period.\n\nFor ease of reference using modern maps, the provinces/regions given for Spain and Portugal are those that correspond to the 20th century, that is, resulting from the 1976 Constitution of Portugal and the processes of devolution of Spain's transition to democracy (1979), which created 17 autonomous communities (regions) and 2 autonomous cities. This affects, in particular, the historical regions and provinces of León and Old Castile (Spanish: \"Castilla la Vieja\"), constituted in 1983 as Castile and León. Events in Portugal and France are specified.\n\nThe Peninsular War was a military conflict for control of the Iberian Peninsula during the Napoleonic Wars, waged between France and the allied powers of Spain, the United Kingdom and Portugal. It started when French and Spanish armies, then allied, occupied Portugal in 1807, and escalated in 1808 when France turned on Spain, its former ally. The war on the peninsula lasted until the Sixth Coalition defeated Napoleon in 1814, and is regarded as one of the first wars of national liberation, and significant for the emergence of large-scale guerrilla warfare. British and Portuguese forces eventually secured Portugal, using it as a safe position from which to launch campaigns against the French army, while both Spanish and Portuguese guerrillas weakened the occupying forces.\n\nThe Peninsular War overlaps with what the Spanish-speaking world calls the \"Guerra de la Independencia Española\" (Spanish War of Independence), which began with the Dos de Mayo Uprising on 2 May 1808 and ended on 17 April 1814. Although Spain had been in upheaval since at least the Mutiny of Aranjuez (March 1808), May 1808 marks the start of the Spanish War of Independence. The French occupation destroyed the Spanish administration, which fragmented into quarrelling provincial \"juntas\". In 1810, a reconstituted national government, the Cádiz Corteseffectively a government-in-exilefortified itself in Cádiz but could not raise effective armies because it was besieged by up to 70,000 French troops. The combined efforts of regular and irregular forces throughout the peninsula prevented Napoleon's marshals from subduing the rebellious Spanish provinces, and the war continued through years of stalemate.\n\nThe final stages of the Peninsular War were fought on French soil, as the French army was pushed further back across the Pyrenees.\n\n"}
{"id": "7218603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7218603", "title": "Valor Ecclesiasticus", "text": "Valor Ecclesiasticus\n\nThe Valor Ecclesiasticus (Latin: \"church valuation\") was a survey of the finances of the church in England, Wales and English controlled parts of Ireland made in 1535 on the orders of Henry VIII.\n\nIn 1534, King Henry parted with the Pope and the Catholic religion and by the Act of Supremacy made himself the supreme head of the church in his lands. One of his first actions in his new role was to impose taxes on the clergy. Taxes traditionally paid by clerics to the Pope were now to be given to him, and Henry also decided in late 1534 to create a new annual income tax of 10% on the income from all church lands and offices. To properly assess the new tax a survey of all church property and revenues had to be made.\n\nIn January 1535, the government appointed commissions throughout the country to conduct the survey. All clergymen, parish priests, heads of monasteries, colleges, hospitals and other institutions under church auspices were commanded to give sworn testimony before their local commissioners as to their income, the lands their establishments owned and the revenues they received from all other sources. The commissioners were to examine documents and account books and from these and the testimony provide a full financial statement for every religious institution. The work of collecting the information was ordered to be completed by 30 May 1535 and the results sent in to the Exchequer in London.\n\nThe commissioners were unpaid and untrained, mostly local gentry, mayors, magistrates, bishops and sheriffs, but they approached the vast task with speed and, by the summer of 1535, the government had in its hands a detailed accounting of the property and wealth of the church. Most of their work survives, preserved in 22 Latin volumes and three folders at The National Archives in Kew. Two of the volumes are illuminated manuscripts and seem to be a summary made for King Henry's personal use.\n\nThe commissioners had no particular reason to be partial to the clergy and they applied themselves to the task with much diligence. Where the figures can be checked, for example against the financial records of the king's officials in charge of dissolving monasteries in the later 1530s, they are shown to be broadly accurate though on the low side, in some cases by as much as 15%. There is, particularly in the north, a tendency to underestimate the value of some important classes of asset, especially agricultural land held in desmesne and woodland with standing timber. One theory to account for this is the natural tendency of taxpayers to make conservative estimates combined with the rushed nature of the work, which encouraged the commissioners to give the benefit of the doubt. Standing timber moreover, by its nature, provides a resource of occasional exceptional income, rather than a steady annual income stream, and hence was commonly ignored in income assessments for 16th century inventories of landed assets.\n\nIn a few instances the discrepancy is of so large a scale as to suggest deliberate fraud in the returns in the \"Valor Ecclesiasticus\"; as was the case for example of Norton Priory, where the submitted figure was so low as to render the abbey liable for suppression under the first (1536) statute for the dissolution of lesser religious houses.\n\nThe \"Valor\" gave the government for the first time a solid understanding of the scale of the wealth of the church as a whole and particularly of the monasteries. It was not long before King Henry began planning ways of seizing much of these riches for himself, starting with the smaller religious houses. Figures from the \"Valor\" were a vital part of the process of the Suppression of Religious Houses Act 1535, Henry's first move in the dissolution of the monasteries, which dissolved all monasteries with a declared income of less than £200 per year.\n\nThe \"Valor\" is a document of the first importance for historians of the later mediæval and Tudor church, the English Reformation, and the Dissolution. It is also valuable to economic historians of the period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39728158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39728158", "title": "Waves Vienna", "text": "Waves Vienna\n\nThe Waves Vienna – Music Festival & Conference is a yearly international showcase festival for pop music in Vienna, Austria. The line-up is mainly focused on alternative music and indie music. The festival takes place in a series of music venues in Vienna such as the Fluc, Flex and Odeon.\n\nArtists: Agent Cooper (AT), Allen Alexis (AT), Andrew Hung (GB), Andrew Weatherall (GB, abgesagt), Brasstronaut (CA), Bilderbuch (AT), Black Shampoo (AT), British Sea Power (GB), Cherry Sunkist (AT), Clara Luzia (AT), D.I.M. (DE), Destroy, Munich (AT), Die Eternias (AT), Dikta (IS), DJ Phono (DE), Emily Barker (US), Ewert and the Two Dragons (EE), Figurines (DK), Film (GR), Haight-Ashbury (GB), Ian Fisher (US), Instrumenti (LV), Is Tropical (GB), Jacek Sienkiewicz (PL), Jamie Woon (GB), Jana Vébrová (CZ), Jellybeat (AT), Ken Hayakawa (AT), Kenton Slash Demon (DK), Killed by 9V Batteries (AT), Kreatiivmootor (EE), Kyst (PL), Little Scream (CA), Longital (SK), M185 (AT), Ogris Debris (AT), Peterlicker (AT), Petrol (RS), Photek (GB), Plastic Swans (SK), Resorts (CA), Retro Stefson (IS), Rubik (FI), SAEDI (AT), School is Cool (BE), Sheila She Loves You (CH), Sin Fang (IS), Slap In The Bass (HU), Svavar Knútur (IS), Sweet Sweet Moon (AT), Tempelhof (CZ), The Beth Edges (AT), The Duke Spirit (GB), The Uniques (SK), Totally Enormous Extinct Dinosaurs (GB, abgesagt), Touchy Mob (DE), When Saints Go Machine (DK), WhoMadeWho (DK), Wolfram (AT), Woody Alien (PL), Zola Jesus (US)\nArtists: 1984 (F), Absynthe Minded (BE), Addison Groove (UK), Anna Aaron (CH), Aeromaschine (RO), Agent Side Grinder (S), And The Golden Choir (DE), The Bianca Story (CH), Birgit Bidder (S), Bloom (band) (SK), Botibol (F), Bottled In England (DK), Didi Bruckmayr & Mussurunga (AT), Bunny Lake (AT), Sera Cahoone (US), Charlie Straight (band) (CZ), Colt Silvers (F), Concrete Knives (F), Dena (BG), Dillon (BR/DE), Dorn (AT), Dust Covered Carpet (AT), DZA (Musiker) (RU), Electric Suicide Club (F), Eloui (AT), Esteban's (AT), Fenster (DE), B. Fleischmann (AT), Friedrich & Ludwig (AT), Frostfelt (FO), Ghostpoet (UK), Gold Panda (UK), Got Blue Balls (SK), Gravenhurst (UK), Hal Flavin (UK), Honig (DE), HVOB (AT), Inborn (LU), Juveniles (F), Kamp! (PL), Kavinsky (F), Kidcat Lo-fi (AT), Björn Kleinheinz (S), Konea Ra-Phekt-Luma.Launisch (AT), Luise Pop (AT), Mario & Vidis (LT), Me and My Drummer (DE), Mieux (F), mile me deaf (AT), Milk+ (AT), Miloopa (PL), MKID (AT), Mopedrock!! (AT), La Mort De Darius (F), Mujuice (RU), Murmansk (FI), Neodisco (AT), Nive Nielsen & The Deer Children (DK), Nova Heart (CN), Novika and Lex (PL), Orka + Budam (FO), Őszibarack (PL), Pantha du Prince (DE), Violetta Parisini (AT), Paula i Karol (PL), The Pharmacy (US), Plus Guest (F), Poétique Électronique (DE), Mike Polinary (PL), Professor Leopard (CZ), Rangleklods (DK), Rats on Rafts (NL), The Raw Men Empire (IL), Rocketnumbernine (UK), Lucy Rose (UK), Rue Royale (UK), Rustie (UK), Sakaris (FO), Sea & Air (DE), Sex Jams (AT), SLG (PL), The Soundtrack of Our Lives (S), Stereoface (AT), Stranded Horse (F), Einar Stray (NO), The Suicide Of Western Culture (ES), Sun Glitters (LU), Swearing At Motorists (US), Talking To Turtles (DE), Team Me (NO), Thomalla (DE) & Martin Riegelnegg (AT), A Thousand Fuegos (AT), Too Tangled (BE), Toy (UK), Tu Fawning (US), Twilite (PL), UMA (DE), Vierkanttretlager (DE), Vinnie Who (DK), The Wave Pictures (UK), The Wedding Present (UK), Wolfram (AT), Wrongkong (DE/CND) und Zebra Dots (HR).\n\nThe third Waves festival is planned from October 3rd till Oct 6th.\n\nArtur8 (PL), Ash My Love (AT), CSS (BR), Electric Soft Parade (UK), Farewell Dear Ghost (AT), Go! Go! Gorillo (AT), Hurricane Dean (DE), Frida Hyvönen (SE), Julian & der Fux (AT), Kreisky (AT), Yuri Landman Ensemble (NL), Lovely Quinces (HR), Touristen Tempo (AT), Wandl (AT), A.G.Trio (at), Amatorski (be), Kari Amirian (PL), Anika (de), Au Revoir Simone (us), The Beth Edges (at), Marla Blumenblatt (de), BRNS (be), Charli XCX (uk), Cid Rim (at), The Clonious (at), Cold Mailman (no), Compuphonic (be), Crunch 22 (il), Dans Dans (be), Deadnote Danse (at), Lenka Dusilova (cz), The End Band (at), Ernesty International (at), Exclusive (de), Fijuka (at), Filou (at), Float Fall (be), Flying Horseman (be), Fuckhead (at), The GFs (cz), Ghost Capsules (at), Girls In Hawaii (be), Ian Green (si), Grimus (ro), Hella Comet (at), I-Wolf & The Chainreactions (at), Illute (de), It’s Everyone Else (si), Japanther (us), Alise Joste (lv), Kabul Dreams (af), Kate Boy (se), Kieslowski (cz), Kill Kenny (si), Kingsfoil (us), Kristoffer & The Harbourheads (se), Krystal Klear (uk), Leure (au), Milk Drinkers (si), Mmoths (i.e.), Mozes & The Firstborn (nl), Múm (is), My Heart Belongs To Cecilia Winter (ch), Napravi Mi Dete (si), New Wave Syria (si), Nowhere Train (at), Oscar and the Wolf (be), The Ringo Jets (tr), Say Yes Dog (lu), Sex On The Beach (at), Skream (uk), Slut (de), Sohn (uk), Soldout (be), Trains Of Thoughts (at), The Touch (se), The Toronto Drug Bust (si), Velvet Two Stripes (ch), Mika Vember (at), Vortex Rex (at), Werefox (si)\n\n"}
{"id": "15702882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15702882", "title": "Whistler Sliding Centre", "text": "Whistler Sliding Centre\n\nThe Whistler Sliding Centre () is a Canadian bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton track located in Whistler, British Columbia, that is north of Vancouver. The centre is part of the Whistler Blackcomb resort, which comprises two ski mountains separated by Fitzsimmons Creek. Located on the lowermost slope of the northern mountain (Blackcomb Mountain), Whistler Sliding Centre hosted the bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton competitions for the 2010 Winter Olympics.\n\nDesign work started in late 2004 with construction taking place from June 2005 to December 2007. Bobsledders Pierre Lueders and Justin Kripps of Canada took the first run on the track on 19 December 2007. Certification took place in March 2008 with over 200 runs from six different start houses (the place where the sleds start their runs), and was approved both by the International Bobsleigh and Tobogganing Federation (FIBT) and the International Luge Federation (FIL). Training runs took place in late 2008 in preparation for the World Cup events in all three sports in early 2009. World Cup competitions were held in February 2009 for bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton. The top speed for all World Cup events set by German luger Felix Loch at . In late 2009, more training took place in preparation for the Winter Olympics.\n\nOn 12 February 2010, the day of the Olympic opening ceremonies, Georgian luger Nodar Kumaritashvili was killed during a training run while reportedly going . This resulted in the men's singles event being moved to the women's singles and men's doubles start house while both the women's singles and men's doubles event were moved to the junior start house. During actual luge competition at the 2010 Winter Olympics, there were only two crashes, which resulted in one withdrawal. Skeleton races on 18–19 February had no crashes though two skeleton racers were disqualified for technical reasons. Bobsleigh competitions had crashes during all three events. This resulted in supplemental training for both the two-woman and the four-man event following crashes during the two-man event. Modifications were made to the track after the two-man event to lessen the frequency of crashes as well. A 20-page report was released by the FIL to the International Olympic Committee (IOC) on 12 April 2010 and to the public on FIL's website on 19 April 2010 regarding Kumaritashvili's death. Safety concerns at Whistler affected the track design for the Sliding Center Sanki that was used for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. This included track simulation and mapping to reduce top speeds by for the Sochi track.\n\nConstructed on part of First Nations spiritual grounds, the track won two provincial concrete construction awards in 2008 while the refrigeration plant earned Canada's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design \"gold\" certification two years later.\n\nAt the 115th IOC Session held at Prague in 2003, Vancouver was chosen to host the 2010 Winter Olympics over Pyeongchang, South Korea, and Salzburg, Austria. On 15 November 2004, it was announced that Stantec Architecture Limited, which designed the 2002 Winter Olympic bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton track in Park City, Utah, in the United States, would provide detail design and site master plan of the track. The company was advised by the German track engineering firm IBG. IBG had designed the tracks used in Oberhof, Germany, the 1988 Winter Olympics in (Calgary) and the 2006 Winter Olympics (Cesana Pariol). The German firm is also the designer of the Russian National Sliding Centre, the venue for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi.\n\nSite construction of the facility began on 1 June 2005 following environmental approval from the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act. Safety and security was then put in place on the site. During its peak of construction activities in the summer of 2006, more than 500 workers were involved both at the Sliding Centre and at the Whistler Nordic Venue (now Whistler Olympic Park). A core group of 60 workers was involved with track construction from June 2005 to December 2007. Basic track construction was completed in November 2007 though fit-out and testing continued into 2008.\n\nThe first run was on 19 December 2007 with Canadian bobsledder Pierre Lueders and his brakeman Justin Kripps starting at the Junior Start house (Location where the sliders start their run on the track) down the track. A total of six runs were made under the auspices of the FIBT. The Canadian Luge Association opened a branch at the track in February 2008. Luge tests occurred in late February 2008 and among the participants were Tatjana Hüfner (Germany), Erin Hamlin (United States), Armin Zöggeler (Italy), and Regan Lauscher (Canada). Bobsleigh participants during certification in March 2008 included Sandra Kiriasis (Germany), Lueders (Canada), and Shauna Rohbock (United States) while skeleton participants included Kristan Bromley (Great Britain), Kerstin Jürgens (Szymkowiak since summer 2008 – Germany), and Jon Montgomery (Canada). Over 200 runs were taken from six different starting positions on the track.\n\nPraise was given both by the FIBT and the FIL over the successful certification of the track. The Vancouver Organizing Committee (VANOC) reviewed the recommendations made from both the FIBT and the FIL to fine tune the track. Canadian teams continued testing and training at the track until 20 March 2008. A total of 2155 runs (335 bobsleigh, 1077 luge, and 743 skeleton) took place at the track with a total of 15 crashes. Final track inspection by the FIL Executive Board took place 25–27 September 2008 before the International Training Week later that year.\n\nInternational Training Week for luge took place at the track 7–15 November 2008. A total of 2482 runs took place during the training with several injuries occurring, most notably Loch, the 2008 men's singles world champion, who injured his shoulder. In a 9 December 2008 press release, the Centre was continuing certification by adding protections on the track against crashes and weather. FIL President Josef Fendt stated that the track's speed was too high with top speeds reaching during training. From the 2482 runs executed during the International Training week for luge, there were 73 crashes, a crash rate of three percent which was normal during new track testing. Three lugers, including Loch, were sent to the hospital, but were later released. Italy's Zöggeler stated that \"The track can be tackled.\" and \"does not see big problems for the athletes\" while Fendt called for the top track speed for future tracks to be lowered to where possible. For the 2008–09 World Cup season at the Centre, 15115 runs were made for bobsleigh (2153), luge (9672), and skeleton (3290). After the World Cup event on 20–21 February 2009, Austria's Andreas Linger described the track as \"fast, incredibly fast.\"\n\nLoch stated that luge speeds for men's singles reached before turn three at the women's singles and men's doubles' start house. A total of 2818 runs for bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton were made at the track during the four-week time period for the World Cup events. FIL President Fendt stated that \"[my] technical delegate told me this week that the Games could start tomorrow and the track would be ready.\" and he appreciated the whole Whistler Sliding Centre At the 2008–09 World Cup season finale, 135 athletes participated (67 men, 42 women, and 26 doubles) though 144 athletes from 23 nations were registered. During the Luge World Cup event that weekend, 186 runs took place with 16 crashes.\n\nThe first bobsleigh and skeleton training week took place on 25–31 January 2009 to prepare for their respective World Cup events on 5–7 February 2009. A total of 250 competitors from 24 nations took part in the World Cup practice for all five events (Bobsleigh two-man, bobsleigh two-woman, bobsleigh four-man, and men's and women's skeleton). Competition and weather affected testing and World Cup runs for the two-week time period. A team of 118 personnel and 276 volunteers worked consecutive weeks at the Training Week and World Cup events. Track director Craig Lehto stated that the volunteer efforts were similar to what he had seen both at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City and the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary. The final two days of competition had 3000 total spectators. Medical services, led by VANOC and FIBT medical director Dr. David McDonagh, tested themselves with first responder care and mock scenarios that included athlete extraction from the sled if the accident was severe enough. These services were tested again during the Luge World Cup competition on 20–21 February 2009. A total of 15,000 spectators attended all five days for the bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton World Cup events, all sold out. FIBT President Robert H. Storey stated that the Centre \"... is fast, technical, demanding, and interesting.\". A total of 235 athletes participated in the 2008–09 World Cup event (92 four-man, 54 two-man, 40 two-woman, 28 men's skeleton, and 21 women's skeleton).\n\nA paid training session took place 27 October – 7 November 2009 at the Centre for bobsleigh teams in preparation for the 2010 Games. On 9–15 November 2009, a second International Training Week for luge took place in preparation for the 2010 Games with the participation of 156 athletes from 27 nations. Venezuela's Werner Hoeger was knocked unconscious during a practice run on 13 November 2009 and was denied any further make-up runs. During training that week, Hoeger expressed concern about the safety of the track. These concerns called for the resignation of track director Ed Moffat, father of lugers Chris and Mike, to offer equal runs to all lugers in future events, to have Canada forfeit any extra training runs that were negotiated for the 2014 Winter Olympics, and for the Canadian Luge Association be reprimanded for unethical actions and not providing a safe sliding environment, especially after speeds were higher than expected. Canadian Luge Association officials declined to comment though they stated to the \"New York Times\" that the lugers received up to three times the amount of training runs offered in the run-up to the 2006 Winter Olympics at Cesana Pariol.\n\nTeam Canada (luge) did not participate in the World Cup event in Lillehammer, Norway during 12–13 December 2009 to train at the Sliding Centre and to compete at the Canadian National Championships that took place on 17 December 2009. A training restriction went into effect on 31 December 2009 where only host nation Canada and athletes from developing nations were allowed to train before the 2010 Games. For the 2009–10 season, there were a total of 15736 runs among bobsleigh (2512), luge (8794), and skeleton (4070) with a total of 115 crashes among the three sliding disciplines.\n\nThe Centre's official website was launched in late June 2008. Public self-guided walking tours ran from 3 July through 31 August 2008. The cost to the public was 5 Canadian dollars (C$5) with children under 12 admitted free. World Cup competition for bobsleigh and skeleton took place on 2–8 February 2009 while luge took place on 20–21 February 2009. The track was a finalist for the 2012 FIL World Luge Championships along with Altenberg, Germany, at the 2008 FIL Congress in Calgary, Alberta, but the track withdrew its bid before the 28 June 2008 selection. During a 4–5 April 2009 weekend meeting of the FIL Commission at St. Leonhard, Austria, it was recommended that the Centre be host for the 2013 FIL World Luge Championships. This was confirmed on 19–20 June 2009 at the 57th FIL Congress meeting in Liberec, Czech Republic.\n\nPost-Olympic usage is a responsibility of the Whistler 2010 Sports Legacies which operates the Sliding Centre, Whistler Olympic Park, and the Whistler Olympic and Paralympic Village. The goal of this organization is to promote the legacy of the 2010 Winter Olympics and 2010 Winter Paralympics, promote healthy lifestyles and tourism in the British Columbia province, and offer revenue for the maintenance of the three facilities.\n\nOn 12 February 2010, hours before the opening ceremony for the 2010 Winter Olympics, Georgian luger Nodar Kumaritashvili suffered a crash during a training run exiting out of turn 16. Kumaritashvili was injured when he flew off the track and collided with a steel pole. He was going at the time of the crash. He died later that day from the injuries sustained in that crash. His accident came after other crashes during that week. This reignited concerns about the track's safety. Kumaritashvili was the first Olympic athlete to die at the Winter Olympics in training since 1992 and the first luger to die in a practice event at the Winter Olympics since Kazimierz Kay-Skrzypeski of Great Britain was killed at the luge track used for the 1964 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck. It was also luge's first fatality since 10 December 1975 when an Italian luger was killed. A joint statement was issued by the FIL, the IOC, and VANOC over Kumaritashvili's death. Training was suspended for the rest of that day. According to the Coroners Service of British Columbia and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Kumaritashvili's death was an accident caused by a \"convergence of several factors\", including the high speed of the track, its technical difficulty, and the athlete's relative unfamiliarity with the track.\n\nAs a preventive measure, an extra of wall was added after the end of Turn 16, and the ice profile was changed. Also, the men's singles luge event start was moved from its start house to the one for both the women's singles and men's doubles event. Women's singles and men's doubles start was moved to the Junior start house of the track, located after turn 5. Germany's Natalie Geisenberger complained that it was not a women's start but more of a \"Kinder\" (\"children\" in ) start. Her teammate Hüfner, who had the fastest speed on the two practice runs at , stated that the new start position \"does not help good starters like myself.\" American Erin Hamlin, the 2009 women's singles world champion, stated the track was still demanding even after the distance was lessened from and one was still hitting .\n\nDuring a 14 February 2010 interview with Reuters, FIL Secretary-General Svein Romstad stated that the federation considered cancelling the luge competition in the wake of Kumaritashvili's death two days earlier. Romstad stated that \"[Kumaritashvili] ... made a mistake\" on the crash though \"any fatality is unacceptable\". Additionally, Romstad stated that the start houses were moved to their current locations \"mostly for an emotional reason\". Because of Kumaritashvili's death, the FIL worked with the Sochi 2014 Olympic Organizing Committee to make the Russian National Sliding Centre in Rzhanaya Polyana slower in speed. Canada's Alex Gough commented on 14 February (two days after Kumaritashvili's death) that \"We’ve got the world championships here in a few years (2013) so hopefully we can actually have a race\" instead of the start at the Junior start house.\n\nOn 18 February 2010, FIL President Fendt issued the following statement:\n\nKumaritashvili was buried in his hometown of Bakuriani, on 20 February 2010. Georgian National Olympic Committee president Gia Natsvlishvili and Georgia president Mikheil Saakashvili raised concern and anger toward the Sliding Centre's organizers that the safety concerns were not addressed.\n\nOn 11 February 2010, Romania's Violeta Strămăturaru was knocked unconscious after hitting several walls during a training run. She was strapped to a backboard and placed on a stretcher though her arms were moving. Strămăturaru withdrew before the women's singles event.\n\nIn the first run of the men's doubles luge competition on 17 February 2010, Austria's team of Tobias Schiegl and Markus Schiegl survived a crash on turn 16 where they came in at too high of an elevation. Tobias tried to correct the oversteer only to have the cousins collide on the opposite side of the ice wall, causing both to go airborne momentarily. Neither suffered any injury.\n\nMihaela Chiras of Romania suffered the only crash of ten actual competitive runs (four men single, four women single, and two doubles), and that was during the second run of the women's singles event. Each of the five days of luge competition was attended by a sold-out crowd of 12,000 spectators.\n\nEvent winners were Germany's Loch in men's singles, Germany's Hüfner in women's singles, and Austria's Andreas and Wolfgang Linger in doubles.\n\nThe first skeleton practice began down the full length of the track on 15 February 2010. It was the first time that had been done since Kumaritashvili's death three days earlier. Britain's Shelley Rudman stated that \"The IOC and VANOC have done all they can to make it a safe environment\". Canada's Mellisa Hollingsworth had the fastest women's practice runs while her teammate Montgomery had the fastest men's practice runs. Montgomery and Hollingsworth also had the fastest practice times on both the 16th and the 17th. No crashes occurred during the two days of skeleton competitions.\n\nEvent winners were Montgomery in the men's and Britain's Amy Williams in the women's.\n\nBobsleigh practice began on 17 February 2010 with the two-man event. Eight crashes among 57 runs took place that day. Three crashes occurred during the two-man practice session on 18 February 2010. Supplemental practice was offered on 19 February 2010 to both the two-woman and four-man events out of caution, and further preparation for both events that took place the following week.\n\nFor the first run on 20 February 2010, a sled from Australia crashed out and did not finish, while a sled from Great Britain was disqualified when the sled's brakeman was ejected during the first run. Liechtenstein's sled crashed out during the first run and finished, but did not start the second run. During the two-man event, runs three and four on 21 February 2010 were rescheduled to 16:00 PST (00:00 UTC on 22 February) for run three and 17:35 PST (01:35 UTC on the 22nd) for run four due to unseasonable warm weather. Temperatures reached on the afternoon of the 20th and were expected to reach on the afternoon of the 21st. No crashes occurred in the final two runs of the event. Germany's André Lange and Kevin Kuske won the two-man event.\nReactions from bobsledders about the track during the two-man event varied from exciting to anxious to dangerous. The Associated Press spoke to 13 of the 21 drivers who competed at the two-woman event on 23–24 February 2010 and the only one who did not feel safe on the track was Erin Pac of the United States. The three German drivers who competed in the two-woman event stated through a team spokeswoman that they had no safety concerns about the track.\nMinor changes were made to the track on 22 February 2010 after bobsleigh four-man teams from Latvia and Croatia rolled over in supplementary practice. Following a meeting with 11 team captains, practice runs were postponed by the FIBT until later that day to adjust the shape of turn 11 so it would be easier for sleds to get through the rest of the track without crashing. FIBT spokesman Don Krone also stated that it was common that turn profiles were changed when it was being used by other sliding disciplines such as luge and skeleton.\n\nAfter track alterations were done on 23 February 2010, the two fastest four-man practice times were done by Germany's Lange and the United States' Steven Holcomb. Australia withdrew its four-man team on 23 February 2010 after two of its crew members suffered concussions from crashes sustained during track practice. Australia's chef de mission Ian Chesterman stated that the decision was not taken lightly and was done on the side of safety.\nIn the two-woman event, defending world champion Nicole Minichiello of Britain had her sled flip over after turn 12 during the third run, but both Minichiello and her brakeman Gillian Cooke walked away from the crash. Minichiello and Cooke decided not to start the final run. In the final run, Russia-2's sled crashed which kept them at their finishing position of 18th. Meanwhile, the Germany-2 sled of Cathleen Martini and Romy Logsch was in fourth place after the third run, but was disqualified after Martini crashed in turn 13 of the final run, causing Logsch to be ejected from the sled. Both Martini and Logsch walked away from the crash by themselves. Before this incident, Martini had never crashed before in her career. Canada's Kaillie Humphries and Heather Moyse won the event.\n\nLange had the fastest practice times in the four-man event on the 24th with the final two practices taking place on the 25th.\n\nFor the four-man event's first two runs on 26 February, defending world champion Holcomb recorded the fastest track times in both runs while defending Olympic champion Lange had the fastest start times. Russia-2 driven by Alexandr Zubkov, the defending four-man silver medalist and bronze medalist in the two-man event at these Games, crashed out in the first run when one of his steering ropes broke. Austria-1 and Slovakia-1 also crashed out in the first run, and neither sled started the second run with Russia-2. Second run crashes involved USA-2, Great Britain-1, and Japan-1. USA-2 did not start the third run. There were no crashes in the final two runs of the event. America's team of Holcomb, Steve Mesler, Curtis Tomasevicz, and Justin Olsen won the event.\n\nKumaritashvili's death raised concerns about athlete safety at the Winter Olympics. As of 21 February 2010, there were 30 crashes in bobsleigh and luge at the Sliding Centre. Debate was raised on tightening qualification standards in weeding out unqualified athletes, in requiring a large number of training runs, in slowing down the sliding tracks, or in combining the three. Organizers of the 2014 Winter Olympics said that the Russian National Sliding Centre was designed to be slower than the Whistler Sliding Centre. Sochi's Sliding Centre was to be monitored via 3-D computer graphics and simulation. The IOC has improved safety standards over the years such as lowering obstacles for the equestrian three-day event, requiring protective head gear for boxing and ice hockey, and tightening qualification standards to preclude athletes not qualified for the event. FIBT President Storey wanted to wait to review safety of bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton until after the 2010 Games, stating that track designers needed to find a balance between challenges and dangers on the track. Track designer Gurgel told \"Sport Bild\" that perhaps track walls should be raised on future courses though a risk-proof course may not be possible. According to VANOC, over 30,000 runs were made prior to the games with neither the FIBT nor the FIL issuing public danger warnings about the track. IOC President Jacques Rogge stated that he \"will do everything in my power that this should not happen again in the future\".\n\nThe FIL published their reports in regards to Kumaritashvili's death following the FIL Commissions Meeting in St. Leonhard, for both sport and technical commissions on 9–11 April 2010. This report was prepared by Romstad and Claire DelNegro, FIL Vice-President Sport Artificial Track. The 20-page report was released by the FIL to the IOC on 12 April 2010 and was released on FIL's website to the public on 19 April 2010. Documents released in February 2011 showed that the speed of the course was a concern for several years before Kumaritashvili's death.\n\nThis venue was constructed on a First Nations designated site. According to the Squamish, the area is referred to as a \"Wild Spirit Place\" or \"Kwekwayex Kwelh7aynexw\" while the Lil'oet call the area \"A7x7ulmecw\" or \"Spirited Ground\". It represents the beating of the Thunderbird's huge wings filled with thunder in the air.\n\nOriginally budgeted for C$55 million, the track's actual costs were C$105 million (€68 million). The track is made of of reinforced concrete that was applied using pressurized spraying to reach a maximum thickness of . Additionally, the track contains of steel conduit, 600 awnings, and 700 lights. A total of 350 track footings were used to set the track on its proper foundation. Forty percent of those footings were completed by July 2006. There are over of ammonia refrigeration piping used to keep the track frozen. Sloping and curves were contoured to within of the planned design course. Ice thickness is that is maintained by hand. There are 36 on-track video cameras and 42 \"timing eyes\" located at the Sliding Centre. The track also includes a control tower and administration buildings. There are two spectator overpasses (between turns 1 and 2, and turns 6 and 7) and three spectator underpasses (between turns 8 and 9, turns 11 and 12, and turns 15 and 16). It seated 11,650 spectators during the 2010 Games.\n\nTo promote sustainability, the site was selected directly adjacent to an already used part of a major ski area. It was also designed to minimize vegetation and the ecological footprint in the area. For energy efficiency, trees were retained to cast shade with weather protection and a shading system used to cover parts of the track. The track itself is painted white to maintain low temperatures while minimizing energy demand on the refrigeration system. Waste heat from the refrigeration plant is captured and reused to heat buildings on-site, and could provide other heat uses in the future. Any wood waste created from site clearing activities during venue construction was composted for reuse. Other on-site buildings also followed similar green building design principles.\n\nIn 2008, the Sliding Centre received two British Columbia Ready-Mixed Concrete Association Awards for Excellence in Concrete Construction. The first award was for Public Works while the second one was for the Century Award.\n\nOn 22 August 2006, VANOC targeted Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Canada by applying for \"silver\" green building certification for the refrigeration plant building. The refrigeration plant received \"gold\" certification level on 2 February 2010.\n\nTurn names for 4–6 and 8 were not given.\n\nTrack g-forces were expected to reach up to 5.02 for men's singles luge. Maximum speed was reached at in four-man bobsleigh during the certification process.\n\nThe luge track records shown were set at the men's singles start house and women's singles/men's doubles start houses during the World Cup competition in February 2009. After Kumaritashvili's death on 12 February 2010, the competition for men's singles was moved to the women's singles/men's doubles start house while the competition for women's singles/ men's doubles was moved to the junior start house. The fastest runs set during the 2010 Winter Olympics are not on this list until an issue between the Whistler 2010 Sports Legacies and the FIL is resolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "22035447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22035447", "title": "Wolverhampton Metropolitan Borough Council election, 1984", "text": "Wolverhampton Metropolitan Borough Council election, 1984\n\nThe Council elections held in Wolverhampton on Thursday 3 May 1984 were one third, and 20 of the 60 seats were up for election.\n\nDuring the 1984 election the Conservatives gained the Bushbury seat from Labour whilst Labour gained the Wednesfield South, Oxley and Fallings Park seats from the Conservatives, the SDP/Liberal Alliance gained a Council seat beating Labour in Spring Vale.\n\nPrior to the election the constitution of the Council was:\n\nVacant 1\n\nFollowing the election the constitution of the Council was:\n\n"}
{"id": "438443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=438443", "title": "Workplace politics", "text": "Workplace politics\n\nWorkplace politics is the process and behavior in human interactions involving power and authority. It is also a tool to assess the operational capacity and to balance diverse views of interested parties. It is also known as office politics and organizational politics.\nIt is the use of power and social networking within an organization to achieve changes that benefit the organization or individuals within it. Influence by individuals may serve personal interests without regard to their effect on the organization itself. Some of the personal advantages may include access to tangible assets, or intangible benefits such as status or pseudo-authority that influences the behavior of others. On the other hand, organizational politics can increase efficiency, form interpersonal relationships, expedite change, and profit the organization and its members simultaneously.\nBoth individuals and groups may engage in office politics which can be highly destructive, as people focus on personal gains at the expense of the organization. \"Self-serving political actions can negatively influence our social groupings, cooperation, information sharing, and many other organizational functions.\" Thus, it is vital to pay attention to organizational politics and create the right political landscape. \"Politics is the lubricant that oils your organization's internal gears.\" Office politics has also been described as \"simply how power gets worked out on a practical, day-to-day basis.\"\n\nPsychologist Oliver James identifies the dark triadic personality traits (psychopathy, narcissism and Machiavellianism) to be of central significance in understanding office politics.\n\nPolitical landscape is a set of hierarchies that link the political players together. In other words, political landscape is what defines relationships between colleagues at a given time. Drafting of this landscape begins with the leaders of the organization influencing the \"formal hierarchy\"; which defines the reporting structure and indicates the political setup of the organization as it was initially intended. Organizational hierarchies, each with its own unique political challenges, depend on many factors of the given organization. Said factors include organizational goals, size of the organization, number of resources available and the type of leaders within the organization. Political landscape will change as individuals are introduced into the organizational mix. \nDuring the process of working together an \"informal hierarchy\" is established. The main link between individuals on a political landscape is the access to-in addition to-the flow of information. This hierarchy can be identified by applying numerical values to relationships in proportion to how much two individuals rate and value one another. The sum value of these relating to an individual establishes the place on the hierarchy. Two or more people estimating relationships and merging results can produce more certain results. People quickly realize who the boss is, whom they depend on for valuable information, and who knows all the office gossip. It is very important to recognize where you fit in this landscape and what power and influence you have within the organization. It is important not only to use that power in pursuit of the organization's goals, but also to ensure others do not abuse it. \"Each player in the organization has a role in the politics that grease the wheels of getting things done.\" \n\nOffice politics differs from office gossip in that people participating in office politics do so with the objective of gaining advantage, whereas gossip can be a purely social activity. However, the two are somewhat related. Office gossip is often used by an individual to place themselves at a point where they can control the flow of information, and therefore gain maximum advantage. The secretive nature of organizational politics differentiates it from public gossip and thus, may be more harmful to the organization. Both can cause one to doubt the intentions of co-workers, which creates a hostile work environment. Office politics also refers to the way co-workers act among each other. Employee interaction holds the potential to be either positive or negative (i.e. cooperative or competitive).\n\nAt the root of office politics is the issue of manipulation. Manipulation can be present in any relationship where one or more of the parties involved uses indirect means to achieve their goals. In the workplace, where resources are limited, individuals often have an incentive to achieve their goals at the expense of their colleagues. For example, if six people apply for one promotion, they might expect the selection to be made purely on merit. If one of the candidates were to believe that this would put them at a disadvantage, they may use other means of coercion or influence to put themselves into an advantageous position. When those who have fallen subject to the manipulation begin to talk to each other directly—or when other evidence comes to light such as financial results—the manipulator will have an explanation ready but will already be planning their exit, as they are driven to stay in control, not to face a revelation which would expose their behavior.\n\nThe aims of office politics or manipulation in the workplace are not always increased pay or a promotion. Often, the goal may simply be greater power or control for its own end; or to discredit a competitor. Office politics do not necessarily stem from purely selfish gains. They can be a route towards corporate benefits, which give a leg up to the company as a whole, not just an individual. \"A 'manipulator' will often achieve career or personal goals by co-opting as many colleagues as possible into their plans.\" Despite the fact that the hidden agenda is a personal victory, allying with unsuspecting co-workers strengthens the manipulator's personal position and ensures that they will be the last person accused of wrongdoing.\n\nOffice politics is a major issue in business because the individuals who manipulate their working relationships consume time and resources for their own gain at the expense of the team or company.\n\nIn addition to this problem, the practice of office politics can have an even more serious effect on major business processes such as strategy formation, budget setting, performance management, and leadership. This occurs because when individuals are playing office politics, it interferes with the information flow of a company. Information can be distorted, misdirected, or suppressed, in order to manipulate a situation for short-term personal gain.\n\nOne way of analyzing office politics in more detail is to view it as a series of games. These games can be analyzed and described in terms of the type of game and the payoff. Interpersonal games are games that are played between peers (for example the game of \"No Bad News\" where individuals suppress negative information, and the payoff is not risking upsetting someone); leadership games are played between supervisor and employee (for example the game of \"Divide and Conquer\" where the supervisor sets his employees against each other, with the payoff that none threatens his power base); and budget games are played with the resources of an organization (for example the game of \"Sandbagging\" where individuals negotiate a low sales target, and the payoff is a bigger bonus).\n\nOrganizational politics is itself similar to a game, one that requires an assumption of risks just like any contact sport. \"It must be played with diligence and a full understanding of the landscape, players and rules.\" \"The dynamics of the situation should always dictate a reexamination of the players and how they fit into the landscape.\" One must be careful relying on alliances made on previous circumstances; once the situation changes, alliances need to be reassessed. Building strong alliances will maximize the efficiency of the collective political radar and alert you before conflicts arise. In time of conflict, data-driven employees who rely on hard facts will have an easier time diffusing political conflicts. Always looking out for the best interests of your company is a certain way to ensure that your motivation will remain unquestioned. L.A. Witt, from the University of New Orleans, through his findings, believes that if supervisors were to mold employee values to match their own, it would protect employees from the negative effects of organizational politics and help improve their performance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24394286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24394286", "title": "World Tamil Conference", "text": "World Tamil Conference\n\nThe World Tamil Conference () is a series of occasional conferences to discuss the social growth of the Tamil language. Each conference is attended by thousands of Tamil enthusiasts around the world. Conferences are hosted in various cities in India, as well as world cities with a significant Tamil population. The conference aims in promoting the heritage of Tamil language.\n\nA similar conference called World Classical Tamil Conference 2010, unapproved by the International Association for Tamil Research, was held in Tamil Nadu conducted by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam under the leadership of M. Karunanidhi. Not all agreed with the academic and intellectual rigour of the latter event. Despite these criticisms upholding such a huge event portraying the value of Tamil language and culture is being appreciated vastly and credited to the DMK supremo as commonly believed by the people in the state of Tamil Nadu. \n\nThe next conference will be held on July 3-7, 2019 in Chicago. The 10th conference will be jointly hosted by Federation of Tamil Sangams in North America (FeTNA) and Chicago Tamil Sangam (CTS).\n"}
{"id": "18507906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18507906", "title": "World Youth Day 2011", "text": "World Youth Day 2011\n\nWorld Youth Day 2011 was the 2011 occurrence of World Youth Day, a Catholic event held from August 16–21, 2011 in Madrid, Spain focused on youth. Media estimated the event's attendance as over a million or 1.5 million.\n\nPope Benedict XVI revealed the location of the event at the final Mass in Australia at Sydney's Royal Randwick Racecourse during World Youth Day 2008.\n\nIt was the second time that Spain hosted the event. World Youth Day 1989 was held from August 15–20 1989 at Santiago de Compostela.\n\nSpanish bishops, including Madrid's Metropolitan Archbishop, Cardinal Antonio Maria Rouco Varela, and the coordinator of the World Youth Day 2011, Madrid Auxiliary Bishop César Franco Martínez, urged Pope Benedict XVI to name patrons for the event. Saint Rafael Arnáiz Barón, Saint Francis Xavier, Saint Isidore the Laborer, Saint Maria Torribia, Saint Teresa of Avila, Saint Ignatius of Loyola, Saint John of Avila, Saint Rose of Lima, Saint John of the Cross, and Pope John Paul II were all designated as co-patrons of World Youth Day 2011.\n\nThis was Pope Benedict XVI's last World Youth day.\n\nThe event is self-financed by contributions from pilgrims (70%) along with companies and individuals (30%). The state's estimated cost for security and infrastructure is €50 million, while officials estimated that the event would generate as much as €150 million in tourist revenue. Three months after the World Youth Day, the accountancy firm PriceWaterhouseCoopers released a report estimating that the economic impact of this event was about 354 million Euros in Spain.\n\nThe theme for 2011′s World Youth Day is \"Rooted and Built Up in Jesus Christ, Firm in the Faith\" (cf Col 2:7).\n\nThe official song for World Youth Day 2011 in Madrid was \"Firmes en la fe\" (\"Firm in the faith\") The song, was composed by Father Enrique Castro, with lyrics by Auxiliary Bishop Cesar Franco of Madrid.The seven verses of the hymn refer to Christ's closeness to young people through his humanity. It was composed based on the WYD 2011 theme, \"Planted and built up in Jesus Christ, firm in the faith,\" taken from St. Paul's letter to the Colossians.\n\nThe Cuatro Vientos Airport provided the location for vigil and final mass.\n\n\nThe number of people attending exceeded expectations, which means more land had to be found round the edges to accommodate the people. An estimated 1,000,000 were in the aerodrome at seven o'clock in the evening, which made this the largest Catholic event ever staged in Spain. Many pilgrims walked from the centre of Madrid (12.6 km), although extra public transport was put on.\n\nThe Pope arrived and a cross was carried in procession to the altar. Several young people were picked to ask questions to the Pope, but a sudden thunderstorm and high winds, meant that the Pope's address had to be communicated to the crowd in written form.\n\nThe Pope resumed the adoration of the Eucharist, after the rain, although with a shortened programme. A mass with distribution of the Eucharist to many in the crowd had to be reduced in dimension.\n\nMany stayed during the night, and the Sunday morning mass took on a larger dimension to make up for the day before.\n\n\nOn August 17 a demonstration against public funding of the World Youth Day and for a Spanish secular state took place in Madrid. The protesters were confronted by riot police with truncheons. Eight people were arrested and eleven were injured.\n\nProtests centred on the Pope and the number of protestors never reached beyond a few thousand. No WYD events were interrupted by their demonstrations. There were a few scuffles between pilgrims and the protestors.\n\nOn 21 August 2011, at the closing Mass, the Pope revealed that the next event will be held in 2013 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The location was leaked a few months before this however. World Youth Day 2013 was held 2 years later, due to Brazil's hosting of the 2014 FIFA World Cup and 2016 Summer Olympics.\n\n"}
