{"id": "49691056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49691056", "title": "Alice Wong (activist)", "text": "Alice Wong (activist)\n\nAlice Wong (born 1974) is a disability rights activist based in San Francisco, CA.\n\nAlice Wong is the founder and Project Coordinator of the Disability Visibility Project, a project collecting oral histories of people with disabilities in the United States that is being run in coordination with StoryCorps. The Disability Visibility Project was created on the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.\n\nWong also serves as an advisory board member for APIDC, Asians and Pacific Islanders with Disabilities of California. She is also a Presidential appointee to the National Council on Disability an independent federal agency which advises the President, Congress, and other federal agencies on disability policies, programs, and practices.\n\nIn 2015, Wong attended the reception at the White House for the 25th anniversary of the Americans With Disabilities Act via telepresence robot. She was the first person to visit the White House and the President by robot presence.\n\nWong has spinal muscular atrophy, a neuromuscular disorder.\n\nFor her leadership on behalf of the disability community, Wong received the Mayor’s Disability Council Beacon Award in 2010, the first-ever Chancellor’s Disability Service Award in 2010, and the 2007 Martin Luther King, Jr. Award at UCSF.\n"}
{"id": "26834292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26834292", "title": "Arnold Frutkin", "text": "Arnold Frutkin\n\nArnold Frutkin (born November 30, 1918) was the Deputy Director of the NASA international programs office between 1957 and 1978, and later, the associate administrator for external relations. He was the NASA Deputy Director for international affairs during the Space Race between the United States and the Soviet Union.\n\nFrutkin first started working for NASA when he was hired as deputy director for the U.S. National Committee during the International Geophysical Year, July 1, 1957, to December 31, 1958. This title later changed to assistant administrator for international affairs in 1963. Frutkin was employed by NASA as deputy director of the international programs office during the space race between the United States and the Soviet Union. After retiring, Frutkin commented although he had always disliked the space race, he had nonetheless felt disappointed by the success of Sputnik 1. In 1970, Frutkin and Thomas Paine held discussions with the Soviets that would later become the base for the ASTP.\n\nFrutkin wrote a letter asking the French space program to reaffirm their pledge not to launch commercial communications satellites under the Intelsat project's agreement that no other communications satellites besides Intelsat would be launched for commercial purposes. France had requested that NASA launch a French satellite which they identified as a research instrument. NASA gave the project the go ahead, but later, some French officials started to claim that the satellite would be used for commercial purposes and the launch of the satellite was cancelled. Lebeau, an employee of the French space program, claimed that Frutkin had refused to launch the French satellite, a comment that resulted in Frutkin barring him from his office. Frutkin took a copy of the letter he wrote with him when he went to meetings in Europe, so as he could produce it when he was queried as to why he supposedly refused the French project.\n\nFrutkin believed that the USA had never lost the Korean War as the aim of the USA had been to prevent North Korea from taking over South Korea, in which they had been successful. This opinion went against what many of his colleagues at the time, including Thomas Paine, believed. Nonetheless, in 1973, Frutkin was awarded the NASA Distinguished Service Medal by Thomas Paine, and Frutkin commented that Paine had always been \"wonderful\" to him.\n\nIn 1978 Frutkin was appointed as the associate administrator for external relations for NASA. He held this post until his retirement in 1979.\n"}
{"id": "42703866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42703866", "title": "Arthur D. Ferguson", "text": "Arthur D. Ferguson\n\nArthur D. Ferguson FRMS (1869 – 24 May 1928) was a banker with the British Guiana Bank and a philatelist who signed the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1923. Ferguson was an expert in the stamps of British Guiana about which he wrote in \"The British Guiana Philatelic Journal\". He was the founder (1903) and Secretary of the British Guiana Philatelic Society.\n\nHe was a non-resident Fellow of the Royal Colonial Institute, now the Royal Commonwealth Society, elected 1909.\n"}
{"id": "24747742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24747742", "title": "Aurelio Martínez", "text": "Aurelio Martínez\n\nAurelio Martínez, professionally known as Aurelio, is a Honduran musician and politician. He is a singer, percussionist, and guitarist known for his Garifuna music and is considered a Cultural Ambassador of the Garifuna people. According to the Guardian, he became the leading Garifuna performer after the death of musician Andy Palacio.\n\nFrom 2006-2010, Martinez served as a congressman for the National Congress of Honduras, becoming its first black member.\n\nSinger-songwriter, guitarist and percussionist, Aurelio Martinez aka AURELIO (born 1969), is one of Central America’s most gifted performers. Born in Honduras, the artist is known for his powerful and evocative voice. He is a major tradition-bearer of the Garifuna culture and music and he is considered nowadays as the Cultural Ambassador of the Garifuna nation.\n\nThe Garinagu, commonly known as the Garifuna are people of Amerindian and West African descents who live along the coasts of Belize, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The original home of the Garifuna is St. Vincent (one of the windward islands in the West Indies) from which they were deported in 1796 by the British government and landed on Roatan island, situated in the Bay Islands of Honduras.\n\nAurelio grew up in a small Caribbean village called Plaplaya, surrounded by a family of talented musicians. His father was a well-known local troubadour who improvised Paranda songs containing Garifuna roots rhythms and Latin sounds. Following the influence of his uncles and grandfather, he became a brilliant drummer in his early childhood. From his vocally gifted mother, he learned to sing and picked up many songs she crafted. Actually, Aurelio began performing at Garifuna ceremonies when just a boy, even at the most sacred events where children were usually not even allowed. At the age of 14, the young man became a respected musician with a firm grounding in Garifuna rhythms, rituals and songs.\n\nWhile attending secondary school at the provincial capital of La Ceiba, Aurelio dove into diverse and innovative musical projects that took him outside the traditional sphere of performance. By this time, he played professionally with popular Latin ensembles and refined his musical skills.\n\nIn the late 80’s, he created his first group called Lita Ariran, who was one of the first Garifuna traditional music and dance group to appear on the international scene and most specifically in Japan. His first album was produced by his friend Akira Tomita with the Japanese company JVC World Sounds (Grupo Garifuna de Honduras, LITA ARIRAN (JVC Records, 1995). Later, Aurelio received the award for the Best singer of Garifuna music and his group Lita Ariran was rewarded for the Best cultural group of the year at the Garifuna World Music Awards, in New York (1998). The less we could say is that Lita Ariran‘s first and unique album remains most certainly a legendary treasure of the Garifuna music nowadays.\n\nIn 1997, Aurelio meets his Belizean friend and fellow musician Andy Palacio. The two artists struck up a decades-long friendship thanks in part to their shared hopes for the future of Garifuna music and culture. Through Palacio, Aurelio met Ivan Duran, the tireless producer behind Belize’s Stonetree Records. The same year, the young artist participated in a paranda project, including the King of Paranda Paul Nabor “Nabi”, Junie Aranda, Jursino Cayetano, Andy Palacio, among others. Critics around the world acknowledge PARANDA: AFRICA IN CENTRAL AMERICA (Stonetree Records, 1999) as being one of the best albums to come out of this part of the world. It is in fact a very rich collection of three generations of paranderos with a depth and range that grows with each listen. From the haunting, bluesy exuberance of Paul Nabor's \"Naguya Nei\" to the fresh sounds of Aurelio’s \"Africa\", this album takes the listener through the tapestry of feeling and soulful striving that lies at the heart of the Garifuna culture.\n\nIn 2004, Aurelio releases his first solo album called GARIFUNA SOUL produced by his friend and long time collaborator Ivan Duran (Stonetree Records, 2004), backed by some of Belize’s and Honduras’ best studio musicians who improvised adeptly on Garifuna percussion, saxophone, electric and bass guitars. Undoubtedly, the artist takes the music into the future without compromising whatsoever the cultural foundations of his inspiration. Aurelio's rich resonant voice and soulful acoustic songs caught the attention of the global music press and saw him as a tradition-bearer with an innate musicality and subtle innovative streak. Indeed, AfroPop Worldwide names him “Newcomer of the year”.\n\nTwo years later (2006), Aurelio, a new born gifted musician takes on another role as a politician in the Honduran National Congress, becoming this way the first Garifunacongressman of his region in the country’s history. For this occasion, the politician’s main goal was to represent and support the Garifuna people through concrete manifestations that would protect their integrity as a whole. Precisely, the idea was to lead innovative actions to improve the daily life of this population as well as to feed and preserve their cultural treasures.\n\nIn the mean time, the Spanish public television (RTVE) produces: Honduras y Belice: la Aventura Garifuna, an original documentary that features simultaneously, the encounter between old paranda’s singers and the Garifuna’s way of life of yesterday and today’s generations. Aurelio is the star of this journey: a very popular young musician who later becomes known as one of the best paranderos. Thanks to its richness, this documentary is definitely an interesting audiovisual reference to introduce oneself into the surrounding world of the artist.\n\nIn 2007, Aurelio was invited to participate in the album WATINA (Stonetree Records, Cumbancha, 2007) featuring Andy Palacio and The Garifuna Collective who received the prestigious WOMEX Award, a respected acknowledgment from the world music industry. Additionally, the album Watina was declared the Greatest World Music Album of All Times by Amazon.com in 2010.\n\nAndy Palacio passed away unexpectedly at the young age of 48, leaving the Garifuna community stunned and bereft. ”Aurelio was still a congressman, but he left the congress session to go to Belize for the funeral,” Duran recalls. “He hadn’t been playing guitar for months because of his intense political commitments. But after Andy’s passing, he gave a few concerts and he knew he needed to start recording right away.”\n\nTogether with Ivan Duran, several veteran Garifuna musicians, and the occasional local ensemble dropping into the studio, Aurelio began laying down the tracks for this recording in a cabana on the beach. Laru Beya was not only a way of honoring Andy Palacio as a person; it was a means for continuing his mission of uplifting and expanding what it meant to be a Garifuna artist.\n\nBy the year 2008, Aurelio was selected worldwide musician by the Afropop legend Youssou N’Dour, within the Rolex Mentor and Protégé Arts Initiative. Most definitely, this was a major event allowing Aurelio and the Garifuna music to open up for the first time to African famous musicians. With no doubt, this opportunity of sharing was another main step in the artist’s developing career. Aside of exchanging valuable points of view about the former it gave him new ideas about musical technical features as well as an exciting possibility to share the stage with Youssou N’ Dour in places such as Senegal, New York (Nokia Theater) and Vienna (Vienna Jazz Festival). At the end of this journey, Aurelio’s dream of traveling one day to the African continent finally became true.\n\nThree years later, as part of a result of Youssou N’Dour’s collaboration, Aurelio releases his second album LARU BEYA (Stonetree Records, Real World Records, SUBPOP, 2011), a compilation of soulful songs linking back to the African roots. N’Dour adds his stirring vocals to two of its songs, while elsewhere there is backing from those great veterans of the Afro-Cuban scene, Orchestra Baobab, and from Senegalese rapper Sen Kumpé. Laru Beya wins sixth place in the Top 20 World Music Albums of 2011 in the WorldMusic.co.uk Award. “Aurelio is a highly talented musician, conscious composer and passionate performer with an excellent band behind him, as well as being the prime advocate for a unique culture. If anyone is going to put the Garifuna culture onto the map, it is Aurelio Martinez”, wrote the WorldMusic.co.uk website.\n\nAfter his debut in the African scene, Aurelio makes a return to his musical roots with his third album LANDINI, (Stonetree Records, Real World Records, 2014). This last composition draws a traditional scenario of the Garifuna community way of life. Most specifically, the album shows a gentle picture of the paranda musical environment in Plaplaya, the artist’s dear hometown. Traditionally, after a long day of fishing, villagers return into their boats to the river landing and gather for a convivial paranda session. This symbolic image leads us to the album’s present name: “landini”, from the English word: “landing”.\n\nAccording To Aurelio, \"I consider this album to be the sound of my Garifuna people. On the previous album [Laru Beya] we experimented and collaborated with other artists to reconnect what was lost between Africa and America. This album is purely Garifuna, and the entire spirit of the music reflects the Garifuna experience. My mother is the sole inspiration for this album. She sees herself reflected in me, to a large degree, the only one of the family who could fulfill her dream of singing professionally. She's the best example I have in my life of what a human being should be, my main consultant and confidante.\"\n\nLándini was named to multiple 2014 year-end critics lists, including: #3 on The Sunday Times Ten Best World Music Albums of 2014, #3 on fRoots Critic's Poll New Albums of 2014, #2 World Music Central Best World Music Albums 2014, Songlines 10 Best Albums of the Year 2014, Curious Animal's Best Albums of 2014, #1 Songlines 50 Greatest World Music Albums of the Last Years.\n\nThe Garifuna community of New York honored Aurelio in March 2015 with a special musical tribute and concert to celebrate the 30th anniversary of his career.\n\nIn January 17, Aurelio launched his new album DARANDI, a collection of Aurelio’s favorite songs from his career recorded to capture the sound of his incendiary live performances accompanied by some of the Garifuna world’s brightest musical talents.\n\nThe album has been receiving great reviews by the press: “The Garifuna have a history of escaping slavery … That experience informs the indomitable spirit and characteristic joie de vivre of their music, expressed via the paranda, a unique up-tempo rhythm and melodies that are as listenable as they are danceable to. ***** ” (Morning Star). “This is his best album to date … Recording with his band 'as live' in the studio, he brings new energy and emotion to favorites that range from the charming and slinky 'Laru Beya' to the lament 'Yange,' or a fresh version of 'Dondo,' a paranda classic driven on by tremolo electric guitar lines from Guayo Cedeño. **** ” (The Guardian). fRoots named Aurelio as “the finest living exponent of the music of the Garifuna people” and London Evening Standard called him “one of the great artists of Latin America.\"\n\n“We’re not going to let this culture die. I know I must continue my ancestors’ legacy and find new ways to express it. Few people know about it, but I adore it, and it’s something I must share with the world.” Aurelio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3041001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3041001", "title": "Carmit Bachar", "text": "Carmit Bachar\n\nCarmit Bachar (; born September 4, 1974) is an American-Israeli singer, dancer, model, actress and showgirl. She was a member of the successful pop/R&B group, the Pussycat Dolls and one of the main vocalists of the group, along with Nicole Scherzinger and Melody Thornton. Bachar left the group in February 2008. She is currently engaged to longtime partner Keith Whitaker and gave birth to a girl named Keala Rose on September 18, 2011. She is currently a member of electro/pop duo called LadyStation.\n\nBachar was born in Los Angeles, her father is of Jewish Israeli descent and her mother is of Indonesian, Dutch and Chinese descent. She was born with a cleft lip and cleft palate. She was raised in Encino, California. Both parents were dancers; her mother worked as a dance teacher at Bancroft Middle School of Performing Arts and her father worked with Elvis Presley and Marcel Marceau. Bachar competed internationally as a rhythmic gymnast for 10 years, and placed 5th in the U.S. Olympic trials in 1992. During her career competing on the U.S. National Team, she attended Hamilton Academy of Music in Los Angeles, studying music, dance, piano and viola. But throughout the years of talent, she endured the years of cleft surgery and was also the victim of bullying.\n\nBachar joined the Pussycat Dolls in 1995 while they were a burlesque show. In 2002, she brought her friend Gwen Stefani to perform at the Pussycat Dolls show. Stefani brought along Interscope's Ron Fair and Jimmy Iovine. Later, the Dolls got signed at Interscope Records.\n\nCarmit was a member of the Pussycat Dolls longer than any other performer being that she started in 1995 with the Burlesque show and left in 2008 after seven years with the recording group. She was also the first doll to be signed into the recording group in 2001. Most of the then members, including lead singer Nicole Scherzinger and back-up singer Melody Thornton, were cast by co-founder Robin Antin in 2002 and 2003, when the group was being transformed into pop recording artists.\n\nIn 2006 and 2007, she toured with the Dolls in support of their multi-million selling album \"PCD\". She was one of the three lead vocalists in the group, and had lead parts in the songs \"Beep\", \"Buttons\", \"I Don't Need a Man\", \"Hot Stuff (I Want You Back)\", \"Right Now\" and \"Tainted Love\", \"Fever\", \"Whole Lotta Love\", among others.\n\nIn February 2008, reports surfaced that she was leaving the Pussycat Dolls to pursue solo projects. On March 8, 2008, Bachar officially announced her departure from the Pussycat Dolls on the group's official website.\n\nThornton gave Bachar special thanks in the 'Thank You' section of the Pussycat Dolls' second album \"Doll Domination\".\n\nBachar has appeared in several films, including \"13 Going on 30\", \"Along Came Polly\", \"The Scorpion King\" and 2003's \"\" featuring the Pussycat Dolls.\n\nIn 1997, Bachar was credited as a dancer in the Nickelodeon Movies film, \"Good Burger\".\n\nAs a freelance dancer she has toured or appeared live with several rock/pop acts. In 1999 and 2000, she was the \"Livin' La Vida Loca\" woman in Ricky Martin's world tour. In 2003 No Doubt's world tour, and appears on stage with Gwen Stefani during \"Bathwater\" in No Doubt's DVD \"Rock Steady Live\". In 2001, she was a dancer for Aaliyah's music video \"Rock the Boat\". In 2004 she was a back-up dancer for Janet Jackson during the infamous Super Bowl half-time show. In 2004, she was a dancer for Beyoncé's tours and appears on Her 2004 DVD \"Live at Wembley\". She appeared in more than 21 music videos including Macy Gray's \"Sexual Revolution\", Jennifer Lopez's \"Ain't It Funny\", Wyclef Jean's \"Perfect Gentleman\", the Black Eyed Peas's \"Shut Up\", Michael Jackson's \"Blood On The Dance Floor\", Aaliyah's \"Rock the Boat\", the Offspring's \"Why Don't You Get a Job?\", and also Beyoncé's \"Crazy in Love\" and \"Baby Boy\".\n\nIn 2001 in Los Angeles, Bachar, Lee Cherry, Scarlett Cherry and others started an 'underground' nightclub called Freedom. This became the occasional \"multi-genre cabaret\" which was first held at the Hollywood Athletic Club, then The Key Club. As of 2006, Bachar is still co-producing the event, which is now called The Zodiac Show. In August 2008 it was reported that Bachar will be doing another Zodiac Show, which she described as \"a rock 'n' roll version of Cirque Du Soleil\". The 2008 show was a success and The Zodiac Show may tour outside of the US.\n\nIt has been reported that she wishes to form a non-profit organization called \"Smile With Me\": \"I want to have my own charity for children and adults who are born with a cleft palate. I was born with one and I want to educate and inspire people by saying that inner beauty is more important than looks.\"\n\nBachar is an ambassador of \"Operation Smile\", a worldwide children’s medical charity that helps improve the health and lives of children and young adults born with facial deformities. In November 2007, she participated in an Operation Smile international medical mission in Bolivia, where she and her team organized creative stations for the kids like face and body painting, bookmaking, music and dance.\n\nBachar is featured in the 2007 song \"Lo-Down\" by Storm Lee on his album \"Soulfillapopkilla\". Meanwhile, she recorded background vocals for Macy Gray's album \"Big\". She also collaborated with Vikter Duplaix on an upcoming song of his.\n\nBachar recorded background vocals for a single by Macy Gray, called \"Beauty in the World\".\n\nIn an interview with \"E!\" from March 2008, she mentioned that she wants to release a solo album in the future. In another interview with Savvy.com she said she worked with Macy Gray and that her album will be released in 2009. In June 2008, a song called \"Carmasutra\" appeared on Bachar's MySpace. She confirmed in her blog that it's an older demo song. In December 2008, an unfinished version of \"Overrated\" was leaked. In June 2009, she performed a new song called \"Fierce\" in nightclubs. It was produced by Jared Lee Gosselin, and written by Carmit Bachar, Kay Cola and Che'Nelle. Other producers she worked with are among others Justin Michael, Phillipe Bianco, Leo Mellace and Steve Catizone. Bachar's album was set to be released in early or mid-2010.\n\nIn the September 2009 issue of \"Kee Magazine\", Bachar revealed that her album will be titled \"Formerly Of...\". \nOn 18. March 2010, rapper Detroit Diamond released an EP which featured a track with Bachar titled \"Something 'Bout You\", as well as her solo songs \"Fierce\" and \"Cream\". The EP, produced by Jared Lee Gosselin, is available on HMV.com.hk and also on iTunes and Amazon as digital download.\nA music video for the song \"Keep On Smiling\" will be released in 2012.\n\nWith the LadyStation she released their debut song \"Body In Motion\" in 2011. In July 2012, the duo released a single \"Motivation\" with DJ Paul Thomas.\n\nOn 2017, February 24. Bachar release her first official single \"It's Time\" under her stage name \"Carmit\" (not including her last name.)\n\n"}
{"id": "7037393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7037393", "title": "Charles Logan (24 character)", "text": "Charles Logan (24 character)\n\nCharles Logan is a fictional character played by Gregory Itzin in the television series \"24\". During the show's fourth season, Logan is the Vice President of the United States who is sworn into office as President of the United States when former President is critically injured in a terrorist attack. Subsequently, Logan's administration fell into corruption. The show's fifth season sees him engage in a massive conspiracy to solidify United States oil interests. Logan appears in the fifth and eighth seasons as the primary antagonist.\n\nFor the role, Itzin received two Primetime Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series in 2006 and Outstanding Guest Actor in a Drama Series in 2010.\n\nCharles Logan has a Bachelor of Arts degree in History from Princeton University. Prior to his vice-presidency, he served as the CEO of Western Energy Coal & Reserve; he also served in the California State Legislature, as Lieutenant Governor of California and as a United States Senator.\n\nLogan possesses several characteristics that diminish his capacity to serve as president. In contrast to Palmer, Logan is seemingly incapable of making hard decisions independently, relying on the recommendations of his advisors. If none are available, Logan tries to withdraw himself from the situation entirely. Additionally, his resolve is weak, as he rarely stands behind the decisions he makes. Furthermore, he boasts of his achievements after a crisis is over, even if his claims do not reflect the reality of the situation.\n\nAfter Day 5 revealed that Logan was behind the backfiring conspiracy, show executive producer Evan Katz said that the President was more of a man hiding a secret and was just being a little smarter about how he projects himself. Star Kiefer Sutherland also noted that people like Logan who are underestimated can become very dangerous because it gives them a sort of cover.\n\nIn the commentary for the show's fifth season DVD, Itzin mentions how he, with the help of Jean Smart, who played his wife Martha, developed an extensive backstory for Logan to help focus his performance. Among other things, he decided that Logan was the son of a distinguished military and political leader. Logan's father physically abused him as a child, which Logan references twice in the finale; first when he tells Jack that he's a lot tougher than he appears to be, then again when he warns Martha that she doesn't know what pain is.\n\nThe backstory also included the Logans' son, who died in his twenties several years ago (which might have been the cause of Martha's mental breakdown). Throughout the day, Logan carried a small chain in his pocket which had been a gift from his son, though most shots that show the chain (such as when his pockets are emptied when Jack interrogates him) were cut for time. Itzin also commented that David Palmer was also a friend to Logan's son and visited him extensively.\n\nLogan's reappearance in the sixth season show a man who is deeply sorry about his actions in the previous season. Logan has all but stated he is now a born again Christian and is searching for redemption. A scene of Logan in private confirms this, showing him grasping a Bible and quoting a passage for comfort. While he showed no ulterior motives, both President Wayne Palmer and Logan's ex-wife Martha understandably showed doubt as to whether Logan has truly changed.\n\nItzin has acknowledged a physical resemblance between himself and President Richard Nixon: \"I have the hairline, and my posture’s mediocre.\"\n\nLogan is first contacted by President when it is discovered that Mitch Anderson commandeered a stealth fighter with the intent to shoot down Air Force One. Efforts to neutralize the stealth fighter fail, and Air Force One is shot down. As a result, the incapacitated Keeler was deemed unable to serve as president, and Logan was appointed president as a result of the 25th Amendment.\n\nAfter being sworn in, Logan is informed by one of his senior advisors, Mike Novick, that Marwan and his terrorist organization have managed to recover several codes to the nation's nuclear arsenal. While Marwan's people manage to steal a nuclear warhead and successfully launch it on board a missile, CTU Los Angeles desperately attempts to track him.\n\nUnfortunately, Logan proves unprepared for both the office and the crisis. When CTU arrests an American civilian named Joe Prado due to his employment under Marwan, Logan is hesitant to face the political risk of detaining Prado without charge. Logan is slow to act, even though CTU and Novick point out that Prado is their only means of finding Marwan in time.\n\nUnwilling to let Logan waste precious time, CTU agent Jack Bauer convinces his superiors to release Prado; afterwards he tortures Prado into revealing one of Marwan's hideouts. Logan, furious that Bauer has acted without his approval, dispatches the Secret Service to arrest him. However, the Secret Service disrupts Bauer's operation to capture Marwan, allowing him to escape.\n\nLogan begins to doubt his ability to govern during the crisis. In response, Novick recruits David Palmer as an advisor, due to the crises he has faced as president. Though Logan initially welcomes Palmer's counsel, he becomes increasingly isolated as Palmer and Novick assume a more active role in leading the search for Marwan.\n\nEventually, CTU locates Marwan. Although he kills himself to avoid capture, CTU manages to use Marwan's equipment to track the missile and shoot it down before it reaches its target. Despite his lack of leadership during the crisis, Logan quickly accepts credit for his presumed handling of the situation. His only concession to Palmer is a private statement that he had \"played a role\".\n\nIn the midst of the hunt for Marwan, Palmer authorizes a covert CTU operation led by Bauer to extract Lee Jong, an associate of Marwan's, from the Chinese consulate in Los Angeles. During the incident, the Chinese Consul is killed by friendly fire. Chinese officials eventually link the operation to Bauer and demand his extradition.\n\nWalt Cummings, Logan's aide, suggests arranging Bauer's murder to prevent his knowledge from being exploited by the Chinese. Though Logan vocally rejects this proposal, Novick later overhears a phone conversation in which Cummings orders a Secret Service agent to kill Bauer before he is turned over to Chinese authorities.\n\nPalmer informs Logan of Cumming's actions, but the president disbelieves the story and refuses to take action. Palmer warns Bauer of the threat on his life, causing Bauer and his CTU colleagues to fake his death. While Bauer goes into hiding, Logan remains unaware of the truth, believing that the situation has been resolved.\n\nLogan prepares to meet Russian president Yuri Suvarov to sign an anti-terrorism defense treaty, seeing the event as the highlight of his presidency. He is startled by the news of David Palmer's assassination, which takes place the morning the treaty is to be signed. First Lady Martha Logan insists that Palmer had previously contacted her, warning of a possible terrorist attack. Logan, while seemingly sympathetic, is skeptical given her history of mental illness. Meanwhile, Eastern European separatists take hostages at an airport in opposition to the treaty. Logan orders CTU to organize a rescue, allowing the treaty to be signed as planned.\n\nWalt Cummings comes to Logan and admits his complicity in Palmer's murder and the airport incident, and further confesses his involvement in an imminent terrorist attack involving the dispersal of nerve gas. Cummings claims that the attack will justify a stronger U.S. presence in Asia, and promote a greater acquisition of oil from the region. He also says that the American agent monitoring the attack has gone dark and is now beyond Cummings' reach. Logan is apparently appalled by Cummings' actions.\n\nMeanwhile, Bauer, who has emerged from hiding to investigate Palmer's assassination, discovers that Cummings knows more about the plot than what he let on to Logan. After convincing Secret Service agent Aaron Pierce to let him speak with Logan, Bauer confronts Cummings and forces him to confess. Logan promptly orders Cummings arrested. Unfortunately, when government forces move in on the location of the nerve gas, they find it missing and the American agent dead. The terrorists had apparently discovered Cummings' plan.\n\nShortly after reinstating Bauer at CTU, Logan learns that Cummings has committed suicide. Meanwhile, the terrorists plan to release the nerve gas in a Los Angeles shopping mall. CTU head Lynn McGill urges Logan to allow the terrorists to succeed—potentially killing up to nine-hundred Americans—in the hopes of catching them and safeguarding the remaining canisters. Despite Audrey Raines' insistence that such a decision would be immoral, Logan agrees to McGill's plan. However, due to Bauer's last-minute intervention, the attack only kills eleven people.\n\nImmediately thereafter, separatist leader Vladimir Bierko gives an ultimatum to Logan, demanding President Suvarov's motorcade route or else face the release of the remaining nerve gas. Ultimately, Logan caves to their demands. Unbeknownst to Logan, Martha joins Suvarov's motorcade in a successful attempt to have the route changed. After CTU thwarts the planned attack, Logan's vice president, Hal Gardner, suggests that he declare martial law until the end of the crisis. Logan does so, much to the dismay of Martha and Novick.\n\nIt is revealed that Logan has collaborated with former CTU agent Christopher Henderson in orchestrating the day's attacks. When CTU finally defeats the terrorists, Logan turns his full attention to eliminating all evidence of his crimes, ordering Henderson to stop Bauer and Wayne Palmer from retrieving an audio tape incriminating him in David Palmer's assassination. Logan has Bauer framed for the murder and issues an executive warrant for his arrest. When questioned, Logan claims to have evidence which he will disclose after Bauer is in custody.\n\nOnce Jack retrieves the tape, he heads to Van Nuys Airport to hand it off to Secretary of Defense James Heller, with the intent to bring down Logan. Once Heller is in possession of the recording, he attempts to cut a deal with Logan, requesting he step down quietly, and in return the recording will never see the light of day. Logan prepares to sign his resignation with Gardner being his witness before Henderson reveals he has retrieved the recording from Heller's men and Jack. Logan then asks Heller to tender his resignation.\n\nLater, Logan is told by one of his co-conspirators, Graem, that Martha must be silenced. Logan confesses to Martha his culpability in Palmer's death and implores her to remain quiet for the good of the country. Logan tries one final time to control the situation, when Bauer hijacks a 727 plane being co-piloted by the man who has the recording. Graem fakes a distress signal from the plane, giving Logan the pretext to shoot it down. When the plane makes an emergency landing, Novick talks Logan out of shooting it down. Jack escapes with the tape.\n\nLogan and Graem agree that the president must commit suicide, reasoning that his trial would do irreparable damage to the country. After apologizing to Martha, Logan prepares to shoot himself. Before he can, Logan receives a call from Miles Papazian, telling him that he will prevent the U.S. Attorney General from hearing the tape. Once he learns that Papazian has erased the tape, he cancels Bauer's arrest warrant. Logan meets with Aaron Pierce, whom he had taken prisoner before he could meet with Martha several hours earlier. Pierce refuses any deal with Logan, and Logan orders Adams to kill Pierce, although Pierce subsequently escaped with help from Martha and Mike Novick.\n\nAt 5:59:03 a.m., Martha stalls the president by sleeping with him, allowing Bauer to sneak aboard Marine One. Once he is aboard, the president is kidnapped and interrogated by Bauer. Jack is unable to extract a confession from Logan, and is arrested by authorities. However, unbeknownst to Logan, Jack secretly placed a microtransmitter which later records him confessing his deeds to Martha. Logan is consequently arrested by U.S. Marshals during his eulogy of David Palmer, and is led away while Martha and Novick look on.\n\nKaren Hayes speculates that Logan may be granted clemency for his actions in exchange for his immediate resignation in order to protect the country from the embarrassment of a trial. Hal Gardner was then expected to be sworn in as the new president. It was revealed during Day 6 that Logan resigned from office after pleading guilty to obstructing justice, and was placed under house arrest. His role in Palmer's assassination and the events of Day 5 were not publicized.\n\nWhen Jack Bauer is left a phone number by his father, Phillip, his call is answered by Logan, who has been placed under house arrest since Day 5. Logan agrees to help Bauer find Dmitri Gredenko, a Russian national who has supplied Islamic terrorists with Soviet-made nuclear weapons. Logan reveals that one of Gredenko's supporters, Anatoly Markov, was involved in the conspiracy during Day 5, and that Logan intends to use this knowledge as leverage in order to gain information on Gredenko. He insists that he is looking for redemption, but Bauer and President Wayne Palmer remain deeply distrustful. Palmer reluctantly grants Logan a temporary release in order to confront Markov.\n\nLogan enters a Russian consulate to confront Markov, threatening to implicate him in the Day 5 conspiracy unless he gives up Gredenko. Markov claims not to know anything. Logan leaves the consulate convinced that Markov is lying, prompting Jack to sneak into the consulate alone to extract information from Markov.\n\nWhen Jack is in their custody, Logan requests he speak to Martha, who is now institutionalized. During the visit, Martha is disgusted by Logan's presence. Just when it is agreed that Martha would make the call, in a sudden fit of rage she stabs him in the shoulder with a kitchen knife, severing an artery. Logan is rushed to the hospital, but begins to flatline en route, with his last words, \"Martha\" before losing consciousness. He is not heard from for the rest of the season.\n\nCharles Logan makes his first appearance in the season when he offers to help President Taylor with the Russian government, who are attempting to back out of a peace treaty following the assassination of President Omar Hassan. The Russians' explanation is they do not believe the new President of the IRK, Hassan's wife Dalia, will be able to hold up the peace agreement; therefore they wish to drop out and have no part in it. Also during this episode it is learned that Logan was granted a presidential pardon from President Daniels.\n\nLater, Jack Bauer learns of Logan's involvement in the government cover-up of Russian involvement in the death of President Hassan when he checks the recent calls of the assassin of Renee Walker. In the following hours, Logan attempts to prevent information about Russian involvement in Hassan's death being released, in order to protect himself and to prevent it undermining the treaty. As in his final hours as President, Logan is willing to go to any lengths to protect himself, including sanctioning murder, torture and press censorship. Logan persuades Taylor to have CTU mole quietly tortured for the location of the evidence by men hired by him rather than grant her a pardon, and arrest journalist Meredith Reed to prevent her publishing the evidence given to her by Bauer. He also has Taylor place his aide Jason Pillar in charge of the hunt to find Jack Bauer, allowing Pillar to pass on information to Russian agents who will then kill Bauer. Numerous attempts to kill Bauer prove unsuccessful, however, increasing the pressure on Logan.\n\nIn the meantime Logan's private escort is attacked by Bauer, who kidnaps him and takes him underground. Bauer threatens to kill Logan unless he gives up the names of those behind the day's events: Logan names Novakovich, the Russian foreign minister. Unbeknown to Logan, Bauer also places a microtransmitter on him; Bauer listens in as Logan incriminates himself further in a conversation with Russian President Yuri Suvarov. Bauer leaves him there unconscious, only fifteen minutes before Novakovich is found dead. Logan is in a hospital bed when the episode ends. Bauer later finds Logan again, intending to use him to lure Suvarov into a trap so Bauer can assassinate him, although he then abandons the plan.\n\nWhen Bauer is eventually captured, Logan makes arrangements for him to be murdered, taking President Taylor's silence as tacit approval. However, at the last moment she refuses to sign the peace treaty and rescinds the order for Bauer's death. Realizing that his plans to kill Jack Bauer and return to political power have failed, Logan murders his right-hand man Jason Pillar and then shoots himself in the head. However, he survives. EMTs responding to the scene believe that he will suffer permanent brain damage.\n\nGregory Itzin was commended for his portrayal of a weak President, with some critics commenting that the character was partly inspired by Richard Nixon.\n\nIn 2006, Itzin was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series. In 2010, Itzin was also nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Drama Series for his appearance in the eighth season for the episode \"Day 8: 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.\"\n"}
{"id": "18719599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18719599", "title": "Chipita Rodriguez", "text": "Chipita Rodriguez\n\nJosefa \"Chipita\" Rodriguez (December 30, 1799 – November 13, 1863) was convicted of murder and hanged in San Patricio County, Texas, at the age of 63. A century later, on June 13, 1985, the Texas Legislature passed a resolution noting that Rodriguez did not receive a fair trial. She has been the subject of two operas, numerous books, newspaper articles, and magazine accounts.\n\nRodriguez was reportedly born December 30, 1799, in Mexico. She was a Mexican-American woman from the South Texas town of San Patricio who furnished travelers with meals and a cot on the porch of her lean-to on the Nueces River. She was accused of robbing and murdering a trader named John Savage with an axe. However, the $600 of gold stolen from him was found down river, where Savage's body was discovered in a burlap bag. She and Juan Silvera (who was possibly her illegitimate son) were indicted on circumstantial evidence and tried before 14th District Court judge Benjamin F. Neal at San Patricio. Although Rodriguez maintained her innocence, she refused to testify in her defense and remained silent throughout the trial, perhaps, some have speculated, to protect her guilty son. Although the jury recommended mercy, Neal ordered her executed. She was hanged on Friday, November 13, 1863. She was 63 at the time of her death. Her last words were quoted as being, \"No soy culpable\" (I am not guilty).\nAt least one witness to the hanging claimed to have heard a moan from the coffin, which was placed in an unmarked grave. Her ghost is said to haunt San Patricio, especially when a woman is to be executed. Rodriguez is depicted as a spectre with a noose around her neck, riding through the mesquite trees or wailing from the riverbottoms.\n\nChipita Rodriguez has become a folk legend, and since the 1930s, there have been numerous alleged sightings of her ghost along the Nueces River where she was hanged.\n\nRodriguez has been the subject of numerous books and newspaper articles. Rachel Bluntzer Hebert’s epic-length poem \"Shadows on the Nueces\" and Teresa Palomo Acosta's poem \"Chipita\" both portray Rodriguez as a heroine. In 1993, the University of Texas music department performed the opera \"Chipita Rodriguez\", composed by Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi professor Lawrence Weiner. In 2010 a screenplay was written by Del Mar College and Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi student screenwriter Cary Cadena.\n\n"}
{"id": "1586607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1586607", "title": "Danny McGrain", "text": "Danny McGrain\n\nDaniel Fergus McGrain (born 1 May 1950) is a Scottish former professional footballer, who played for Celtic, Hamilton Academical and the Scotland national team as a right back. McGrain is regarded as one of Scotland's greatest players; sports writer Hugh McIlvanney commented, \"Anybody who saw him at his best had the unmistakable impression of watching a great player, probably one who had no superior anywhere in the world.\"\n\nMcGrain began his career at Celtic and was one of the \"Quality Street Gang\", a group of young players that emerged in the late 1960s. He progressed to the first team and went on to play 659 competitive games for Celtic between 1970 and 1987, winning seven League Championships, five Scottish Cups and two Scottish League Cups. He spent his final season of his career with Hamilton, where he helped win them promotion to the Premier Division. McGrain played in the 1974 and 1982 World Cups for Scotland. His 62 caps earned him a place in the Scotland national football team roll of honour and he was inducted to the Scottish Football Hall of Fame in 2004.\n\nAfter retiring from playing, McGrain had a spell as manager of Arbroath in the early 1990s, and is now currently part of the coaching staff at Celtic.\n\nBorn in Glasgow and raised in the city's Drumchapel area, McGrain played for Queen's Park Strollers and also featured for the Scotland Schools team, where he was scouted and signed for Celtic in May 1967, aged 17. He became one of the so-called 'Quality Street Gang', the great Celtic reserve team that also included players such as Kenny Dalglish, Lou Macari, Davie Hay and George Connelly, who eventually took the places of the ageing Lisbon Lions. At first, McGrain was regarded as a midfielder but was utilised in a variety of roles in the reserve side before becoming established as a right-back. He had a spell at Junior club Maryhill to gain experience playing with adults, and also made a fruitless attempt at a college course in engineering prior to becoming a full-time professional.\n\nHaving been chosen to accompany the main squad to the 1970 European Cup Final along with Dalglish, McGrain made his first-team debut for Celtic as a substitute in a Scottish League Cup tie against Dundee United at Tannadice on 26 August 1970. He then went on and made his league debut three days later in the opening fixture against Morton at Celtic Park. McGrain was used sparingly by manager Jock Stein in his first couple of seasons in the first team, but the young full-back played well in these games.\n\nHaving made only 10 league appearances, McGrain suffered the first serious set-back of his career on 25 March 1972. He sustained a fractured skull during a match at Brockville against Falkirk after a clash of heads with forward Doug Somner. McGrain, however, made a full recovery and began the following season, 1972–73, as Celtic's first-choice right-back in place of Jim Craig who had left the club at the end of the previous season. McGrain now became a first-team regular and made 30 league appearances that season. He also rose through the ranks at international level, making two appearances for the Scotland Under 23 side in the spring of 1973 before finally making his debut at full international level for Scotland in May 1973 against Wales at Wrexham. McGrain picked up his first winner's medal at the end of the season when Celtic clinched their eighth successive league championship title.\n\nBy the mid 1970s, McGrain was considered by many to be one of the best full-backs in the world. He played as what is known today as an attacking full-back and contributed significantly in both attacking moves as well as in defence. His abilities included a burst of speed, skill and control on the ball, vision and anticipation and, when required, a strong but fair sliding tackle. He won a further league championship title and a Scottish Cup in 1974 and played in the World Cup for Scotland that same year. However, McGrain was diagnosed with diabetes immediately after the World Cup, but with the benefit of medication and a controlled diet and lifestyle, continued to play without adverse effect.\n\nIn 1977 McGrain won his second league and cup double. He was also voted Player of the Year by the Scottish Football Writers' Association. McGrain became captain of Celtic at the start of season 1977-78 in the wake of Kenny Dalglish's departure to Liverpool. However, a troublesome foot injury that medical staff struggled to identify or treat adequately saw McGrain miss most of the season with Celtic. He also missed the 1978 World Cup for Scotland. Celtic finished the season trophy-less and failed to qualify for European competition for the first time since the early 1960s. McGrain eventually recovered from his mystery foot injury and after a tentative re-introduction into the Celtic team, now managed by Billy McNeill, played in the club's last 18 league fixtures of the season in the spring of 1979. On his return from injury, a change in his style of play was apparent. There was a noticeable reduction of pace, which in turn was compensated for by a greater reliance on anticipation of play and distribution of the ball. McGrain went on to pick up his fourth league championship medal at the end of that season as Celtic clinched the title with a dramatic 4–2 win over Rangers in their final game of the season.\n\nMcGrain continued to be a mainstay of the Celtic side during the early to mid 1980s; captaining them to a further three league championships, two Scottish Cups and one Scottish League Cup, despite also suffering a broken leg in 1981. He made his 600th competitive appearance for Celtic in a 2–0 win over St Mirren in October 1985. Manager Davie Hay described him as a \"superb player and professional\" and said he was \"the best tackler on the field\" in the match against St Mirren. In the summer of 1986, Airdrie made an approach for McGrain to become their player-manager. Negotiations reached an advanced stage until a last-minute change of heart by the Airdrie board. McGrain remained at Celtic for a further year; playing regularly at the age of 36: he missed only two games in the second half of the season. He played his final game for Celtic on 9 May 1987, a league fixture away against Hearts.\n\nIn May 1987, McGrain was given a free transfer by Celtic. He joined Hamilton Accies in the summer and helped them win promotion to the Premier Division before finally retiring from playing.\n\nHis international career began at Scotland Under 23 level on 13 February 1973 with a game against England at Kilmarnock. McGrain played alongside Alan Rough and Asa Hartford in a 1–2 defeat. He won a second cap at Under 23 level a month later away to Wales, winning 2–1.\n\nMcGrain made his full international debut for Scotland on 12 May 1973 in a British Home Championship tie against Wales at Wrexham, winning 2–0. He won a further two caps over the following week in Home Championship ties against Northern Ireland and England. The game against England saw McGrain fielded in an unfamiliar role at left-back to accommodate another highly rated right-back, Sandy Jardine of Rangers. McGrain would go on to play at left-back for many of his Scotland appearances in the 1970s in order to accommodate the Rangers player, still able to play to the abilities he displayed in his normal role.\n\nMcGrain played in eight consecutive internationals for Scotland and was selected by Willie Ormond for the 22 man squad travelling to West Germany for the 1974 World Cup. McGrain played in all three World Cup group matches (Zaire, Brazil and Yugoslavia), but despite being undefeated Scotland returned home having failed to qualify for the next phase. This early-exit from the tournament proved fortunate for McGrain, who had been suffering from extreme thirst all through the tournament and had lost 2 stone (12 kg) in weight. On his return to Glasgow, McGrain was diagnosed as being diabetic. Had there been any further delay in identification and treatment of his condition, the consequences could have proved fatal. With his illness now being managed, McGrain was able to continue playing football.\n\nMcGrain continued to play regularly for Scotland, now being fielded in his more familiar position at right-back, but missed Scotland's ill-fated 1978 World Cup campaign in Argentina through injury.\n\nOn his recovery from injury in 1979, McGrain regained his place in the Scotland team. He made 16 consecutive international appearances in the run up to the 1982 World Cup in Spain. Now captain of the side, McGrain was named in Jock Stein's 22 man squad travelling to Spain. He played in Scotland's opening game against New Zealand but was dropped for the next match against Brazil. McGrain came on as a substitute for Gordon Strachan in Scotland's third game, against the Soviet Union. This transpired to be his final game for Scotland.\n\nMcGrain is a member of the Scotland national football team roll of honour, courtesy of the 62 caps he won during his career.\n\nAfter retiring from playing, McGrain had a brief spell coaching at Clydebank in 1989.\n\nIn November 1992 McGrain was appointed manager of Scottish Second Division side Arbroath. That season, McGrain led Arbroath to the quarter-finals of the Scottish Cup, losing 0–3 at home to eventual winners Rangers. The following season Arbroath played McGrain's former club Celtic in a Scottish League Cup tie and lost 1–9, a record defeat for the club. McGrain resigned in January 1994 due to illness. In his 14 months at Gayfield Park, McGrain became popular with their fans and was followed by a group of supporters known as 'Danny McGrain's Bearded Army'. These supporters attended games wearing tribute T-shirts and stick-on beards, affectionately mimicking McGrain's own trademark beard.\n\nIn August 1997 McGrain joined the backroom staff at Celtic, working under Wim Jansen. After a spell coaching the under-21 side, he was made first team coach after being promoted by Neil Lennon in October 2012 from the Development Squad.\n\nMcGrain is married to Laraine, and the couple have three daughters. His younger brother Tommy was also a footballer who trained with Celtic as a teenager, but he did not break through to the first team and subsequently played for Dumbarton. \n\nMcGrain supported Rangers (Celtic's Glasgow rivals) as a boy. He wrote two autobiographies, one when his career was at its peak and another shortly after he retired. In both, McGrain (a Protestant) told how he had been spotted by someone doing some scouting for Rangers when he was still a boy but the scout did not recommend him to Rangers, wrongly assuming from his name – Daniel Fergus McGrain – that he was a Catholic and that Rangers would not sign him because of this. However, McGrain has since stated, \"I don't know if that story's true. Over the years that followed nobody from Rangers ever told me they wanted to sign me\".\n\nIn the summer of 1974, McGrain was diagnosed as suffering from diabetes. He had just returned home from playing for Scotland in the World Cup in West Germany, where he had displayed an excessive thirst and lost 2 stones (12 kg) in weight. Despite his condition, McGrain was able to continue playing top-level football. In March 2002 McGrain was found by Police in the south side of Glasgow, slumped unconscious in the driver's seat of his car. He had entered a hypoglycaemic state, where the brain is drained of sugar and causes the body to shut down to conserve what little there is left. The officers revived McGrain and fed him a sugary sweet. Had McGrain not been found in time he would have suffered brain damage and possibly died. However, he made a full recovery and commented \"There was no harm done in the end.\" \n\nIn 2002, Celtic supporters voted for what they considered to be the greatest Celtic XI of all time. McGrain was voted into the team, which was; Simpson, McGrain, Gemmell, Murdoch, McNeill, Auld, Johnstone, P McStay, Dalglish, Larsson and Lennox. He was an inaugural inductee to the Scottish Football Hall of Fame in 2004, \n\nMcGrain is the Vice Patron of Football Aid, a Scottish charity fund-raising organisation. He has been involved with them since their inception in 2000, and was appointed Vice Patron in 2004.\n\nIn 1996, Glasgow rock band Big Wednesday immortalised Danny in music in their single \"Sliding in like McGrain\". Danny appeared on television with the group as part of the promotional activities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7156663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7156663", "title": "Early life of George W. Bush", "text": "Early life of George W. Bush\n\nGeorge W. Bush, (1946-) was the oldest child in a family of six children was born in the city of New Haven, Connecticut, grew up in the Texan cities of Midland and Houston. He studied at Yale University and the Harvard Business School before serving in the Texas Air National Guard. Bush would later be part owner and managing partner of the Texas Rangers baseball franchise, become governor of Texas and eventually become the 43rd President of the United States. His father died on November 30, 2018 due to a yet unknown cause.\n\nGeorge Walker Bush, the oldest son of George Herbert Walker Bush and Barbara Bush, was born in New Haven, Connecticut, on July 6, 1946. Some of his paternal ancestors had emigrated from Somerset in the West Country of England to North America in the seventeenth century. They were connected with the Salem witch trials: Mary Parker, executed for witchcraft, was an 8th great-grandmother, and Bush descended from, or was otherwise related to, as many as 217 people involved in the trials.\n\nWhen Bush was just two years old, his father moved the family from New Haven to the town of Odessa in West Texas to begin a career in the oil industry. According to George W., then age two, the family lived in one of the few duplexes in Odessa with an indoor bathroom, which they \"shared with a couple of hookers\". He was subsequently raised in Midland and Houston, Texas, with siblings Jeb, Neil, Marvin, and Dorothy. A younger sister, Robin, died of leukemia in 1953 at the age of three, when Bush was 7. His parents came to pick him up from school two days after her death; Bush ran up to their car hoping to see Robin with them, and they told him the news. Bush understood that his sister had died, but his younger brother Jeb did not. The family spent the summers and most holidays at the Bush Compound in Maine.\nBush attended Sam Houston Elementary School and San Jacinto Junior High School in Midland, Texas. He later moved to The Kinkaid School in Piney Point Village, Texas for two years. Afterward, like his father, Bush attended Phillips Academy (September 1961–June 1964 and later Yale University (September 1964–May 1968). At Yale, he joined Delta Kappa Epsilon, of which he was from October 1965 until graduation, and the Skull and Bones secret society; Bush's father George H. W. Bush (1948) and grandfather Prescott S. Bush (1917) were also members of Skull and Bones. Bush was also in the Yale First XV rugby union team in 1968. He was a C student, scoring 77% (with no As and one D, in astronomy) with a grade point average of 2.35 out of a possible 4.00. Bush joked that he was known more for his social life than for his grades. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in history in 1968. The entire entry from his yearbook read:\n\nBush's 1970 application to the University of Texas School of Law was rejected, and after his service in the Texas Air National Guard he entered Harvard Business School in 1973. He graduated with a Masters of Business Administration (MBA) degree in 1975, the first U.S. president with an MBA.\n\nBush was a keen rugby union player, during high school and Yale University. He played at the position of fullback for Yale's 1st XV, and in 1968 was in the Yale team that dramatically defeated Harvard.\n\nAfter graduating from Yale University, Bush joined the Texas Air National Guard on May 27, 1968, during the Vietnam War, with a commitment to serve until May 26, 1974. He was promoted to first lieutenant on the November 1970 recommendation of Texas Air National Guard commander Lt. Col. Jerry B. Killian. He served as an F-102 pilot until 1972. Bush was discharged from the Texas Air National Guard and transferred to inactive duty in the Air Force Reserve. He was honorably discharged from the Air Force Reserve on November 21, 1974, at the end of his six-year service obligation.\n\nBush had described his days before his religious conversion in his 40s as his nomadic period and irresponsible youth. Although Bush states that he was not an alcoholic, he has acknowledged that he was \"drinking too much\".\n\nOn September 4, 1976, Bush was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol near his family's summer home in Kennebunkport, Maine. He admitted his guilt, was fined US$150, and had his driving license in the state briefly suspended.\n\nDuring the 2000 presidential campaign, Bush said that he gave up drinking after waking up with a hangover after his 40th birthday celebration: \"I quit drinking in 1986 and haven't had a drop since then.\" He ascribed the change in part to a 1985 meeting with Reverend Billy Graham, after which he began serious Bible study, as well as to gentle but persistent pressure from his wife, Laura.\n\nBush married Laura Welch in 1977. They have fraternal twin daughters, Barbara Pierce Bush and Jenna Welch Bush Hager, born in 1981.\n\n"}
{"id": "4531973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4531973", "title": "Ed Porray", "text": "Ed Porray\n\nEdmund Joseph Porray (December 5, 1888 – July 13, 1954) was a major league pitcher. A right-handed pitcher who had a brief Major League career in which he pitched in 3 games for the Buffalo Buffeds of the Federal League, compiling a 0–1 record with a 4.35 earned run average in 10 innings pitched.\n\nToday, Porray is best remembered for his unusual birthplace, as he is the only Major League Baseball player to have been born at sea. His birth certificate lists \"At sea, on the Atlantic Ocean\" as his birthplace.\n\nPorray died at the age of 65 in Lackawaxen, Pennsylvania, and is interred at the Odd Fellows Cemetery in that town.\n"}
{"id": "5199047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5199047", "title": "Edward H. Simpson", "text": "Edward H. Simpson\n\nEdward Hugh Simpson CB (born 10 December 1922) is a retired British civil servant and former statistician best known for describing Simpson's paradox along with Udny Yule.\n\nEdward Hugh Simpson was introduced to the thinking of mathematical statistics as a cryptanalyst at Bletchley Park (1942–45). He wrote the paper \"The Interpretation of Interaction in Contingency Tables\" while a postgraduate student at the University of Cambridge in 1946 with Maurice Bartlett as his tutor; and published it in the \"Journal of the Royal Statistical Society\" in 1951 at Bartlett's request because Bartlett wanted to refer to it.\n\nThe paradox is used in mathematical statistics teaching to illustrate the care statisticians need to take when interpreting data. It figured in a 2009 episode of the US television crime-solving series \"Numb3rs\".\n\nSimpson entered the civil service administrative class in the UK Ministry of Education in 1947 and subsequently worked also in the Treasury, the Commonwealth Education Liaison Unit, as Private Secretary to Lord Hailsham as Lord President of the Council and Lord Privy Seal, and in the Civil Service Department. He was a Commonwealth Fund (Harkness) Fellow in the USA (1956–57). At one point a useful observation of his on the aggregate behaviour of teachers' pay was labelled \"Simpson's Drift\". He retired from the Department of Education and Science as a Deputy Secretary and Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1982 and now lives in Oxfordshire.\n\nIn 2017, Simpson contributed two chapters on the cryptanalytic process Banburismus, developed by Alan Turing at Bletchley Park during World War II.\n"}
{"id": "1804363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1804363", "title": "Ernie Sigley", "text": "Ernie Sigley\n\nErnest William Sigley (born 2 September 1938, in Footscray, Australia) is a Gold Logie winning Australian television host, radio presenter and singer. Sigley is often styled as a \"little Aussie battler\" with a larrikin sense of humour.\n\nAfter completing his education at Williamstown High School, Sigley's career began in 1952 as a turntable operator on Danny Webb's breakfast program at radio station 3DB (Melbourne). Television started in Australia in 1956, and Sigley made his TV debut as host of \"Teenage Mailbag\" on HSV-7 in 1957. Shortly after this, he decided to try his luck in London, gaining some work experience at the BBC. But a bigger break was to come with a three-year stint at Radio Luxembourg, where he performed under the name 'Ernie Williams'.\n\nSigley is remembered by some for his 1964 association with the Adelaide leg of The Beatles tour of Australia. In one press conference, Sigley's questioning of The Beatles about their rock influences, and being able to discuss them (e.g. Buddy Holly), brought about an enthusiastic response from John Lennon, which contrasted strongly from all the questions asked by other interviewers during the conference.\n\nSigley was host of the afternoon program on Melbourne's 3AW from 1996 until his retirement on Friday 7 November 2008. Regular fill-in presenter Denis Walter replaced Sigley from Monday 10 November 2008.\n\nSigley then took on a part-time role at the station replacing Paul Cronin as the fill in host on Nightline. Sigley partnered either Bruce Mansfield or Philip Brady in the Friday night slot. Sigley ended his radio career in January 2009 after a 57-year association with the industry, when it is believed he stormed out of a heated meeting with 3AW management.\n\nIn the 1960s and early 1970s, Sigley hosted the prime time Adelaide variety show, Adelaide Tonight on NWS-9 and he was the original host of the Australian version of the popular game show, \"Wheel of Fortune\", from 1981 to 1984. In 1982, he presented the regional variety program \"Six Tonight\" from BTV-6 Ballarat, and the daytime talent show \"Pot Luck\" in 1987.\n\nAfter a break from television, Sigley returned in 1989 with Denise Drysdale, hosting GTV-9's morning program \"In Melbourne Today\".\n\nFrom 1974–1976, Sigley was the host of the national Nine Network variety show, \"The Ernie Sigley Show\", featuring notable Australian media personalities such as Denise Drysdale, Noni Hazlehurst, Pete Smith and Joy Westmore. The program was abruptly axed after an off-air outburst by Sigley, directed at station owner Kerry Packer and producer Peter Faiman, when the network cut short his first show for 1976, to accommodate a network sports awards telecast. Packer heard about the incident and flew to Melbourne from Sydney the next day with Don Lane. He dismissed Sigley in person, effective immediately, and replaced him with Lane.\n\nAfter his dismissal in 1976, Sigley moved to ATV-0 and hosted the early evening variety show \"Ernie\" and then in 1979, \"Saturday Night Live\" on HSV-7 co-hosting with Mary Hardy.\n\nSigley was involved in an infamous stoush with fellow TV star Don Lane at a Logies Ceremony in the 1990s. Lane claims that Sigley allegedly made insulting remarks about Lane's partner, Lane then allegedly punched at Sigley.\n\nSigley began singing in the 1950s, and was a regular on the local Town Hall circuit. In 1957, his first record, \"Love Is A Golden Ring\", was released by W & G Records. This record was described by Sigley as being the last 78rpm release in Australia.\n\nIn 1974, Sigley, with Denise Drysdale, recorded the popular duet, \"Hey Paula\", released by Festival Records, Australia and produced at Armstrong Studios, Melbourne. This song went on to be a No. 1 best-selling hit for them in Australia.\n\nSigley regularly performed around Australia on the club circuit, often with his television partner, Denise Drysdale. More recently he has teamed up with fellow broadcaster and singer, Denis Walter.\n\nSigley won the TV Week Gold Logie Award for Most Popular Personality on Australian Television in 1975. The award was presented to him by one of his idols, John Wayne.\n\nSigley, along with his wife, Glenys, supports CBM, a charity working with people experiencing a disability and poverty.\n\nAs a boy, Sigley was a choir boy at St Paul's Cathedral, Melbourne.\n\nThree times married and twice divorced, Sigley is married to Glenys (formerly Glenys O'Brien), a multi-Logie award-winning former television personality. They live in the eastern suburbs of Melbourne and have four adult children.\n\nSigley is also a passionate supporter of the Western Bulldogs (formerly known as the Footscray Football Club).\nHis family announced in October 2016 that Ernie is living with Alzheimer's disease\n"}
{"id": "350596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350596", "title": "Galton–Watson process", "text": "Galton–Watson process\n\nThe Galton–Watson process is a branching stochastic process arising from Francis Galton's statistical investigation of the extinction of family names. The process models family names as patrilineal (passed from father to son), while offspring are randomly either male or female, and names become extinct if the family name line dies out (holders of the family name die without male descendants). This is an accurate description of Y chromosome transmission in genetics, and the model is thus useful for understanding human Y-chromosome DNA haplogroups, and is also of use in understanding other processes (as described below); but its application to actual extinction of family names is fraught. In practice, family names change for many other reasons, and dying out of name line is only one factor, as discussed in examples, below; the Galton–Watson process is thus of limited applicability in understanding actual family name distributions.\n\nThere was concern amongst the Victorians that aristocratic surnames were becoming extinct. Galton originally posed the question regarding the probability of such an event in an 1873 issue of \"The Educational Times\", and the Reverend Henry William Watson replied with a solution. Together, they then wrote an 1874 paper entitled \"On the probability of the extinction of families\" in the Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland (now the Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute). Galton and Watson appear to have derived their process independently of the earlier work by I. J. Bienaymé; see Heyde and Seneta 1977. For a detailed history see Kendall (1966 and 1975).\n\nAssume, for the sake of the model, that surnames are passed on to all male children by their father. Suppose the number of a man's sons to be a random variable distributed on the set { 0, 1, 2, 3, ... }. Further suppose the numbers of different men's sons to be independent random variables, all having the same distribution.\n\nThen the simplest substantial mathematical conclusion is that if the average number of a man's sons is 1 or less, then their surname will almost surely die out, and if it is more than 1, then there is more than zero probability that it will survive for any given number of generations.\n\nModern applications include the survival probabilities for a new mutant gene, or the initiation of a nuclear chain reaction, or the dynamics of disease outbreaks in their first generations of spread, or the chances of extinction of small population of organisms; as well as explaining (perhaps closest to Galton's original interest) why only a handful of males in the deep past of humanity now have \"any\" surviving male-line descendants, reflected in a rather small number of distinctive human Y-chromosome DNA haplogroups.\n\nA corollary of high extinction probabilities is that if a lineage \"has\" survived, it is likely to have experienced, purely by chance, an unusually high growth rate in its early generations at least when compared to the rest of the population.\n\nA Galton–Watson process is a stochastic process {\"X\"} which evolves according to the recurrence formula \"X\" = 1 and\n\nwhere formula_2 is a set of independent and identically-distributed natural number-valued random variables.\n\nIn the analogy with family names, \"X\" can be thought of as the number of descendants (along the male line) in the \"n\"th generation, and formula_3 can be thought of as the number of (male) children of the \"j\"th of these descendants. The recurrence relation states that the number of descendants in the \"n\"+1st generation is the sum, over all \"n\"th generation descendants, of the number of children of that descendant.\n\nThe extinction probability (i.e. the probability of final extinction) is given by\n\nThis is clearly equal to zero if each member of the population has exactly one descendant. Excluding this case (usually called the trivial case) there exists\na simple necessary and sufficient condition, which is given in the next section.\n\nIn the non-trivial case the probability of final extinction is equal to one if \"E\"{\"ξ\"} ≤ 1 and strictly less than one if \"E\"{\"ξ\"} > 1.\n\nThe process can be treated analytically using the method of probability generating functions.\n\nIf the number of children \"ξ \" at each node follows a Poisson distribution with parameter λ, a particularly simple recurrence can be found for the total extinction probability \"x\" for a process starting with a single individual at time \"n\" = 0:\n\ngiving the above curves.\n\nIn the classical Galton–Watson process described above, only men are considered, effectively modeling reproduction as asexual. A model more closely following actual sexual reproduction is the so-called \"bisexual Galton–Watson process\", where only couples reproduce. (\"Bisexual\" in this context refers to the number of sexes involved, not sexual orientation.) In this process, each child is supposed as male or female, independently of each other, with a specified probability, and a so-called \"mating function\" determines how many couples will form in a given generation. As before, reproduction of different couples are considered to be independent of each other. Now the analogue of the trivial case corresponds to the case of each male and female reproducing in exactly one couple, having one male and one female descendant, and that the mating function takes the value of the minimum of the number of males and females (which are then the same from the next generation onwards).\n\nSince the total reproduction within a generation depends now strongly on the mating function, there exists in general no simple necessary and sufficient condition for final extinction as it is the case in the classical Galton–Watson process. However, excluding the non-trivial case, the concept of the averaged reproduction mean (Bruss (1984)) allows for a general sufficient condition for final extinction, treated in the next section.\n\nIf in the non-trivial case the averaged reproduction mean per couple stays bounded over all generations and will not exceed 1 for a sufficiently large population size, then the probability of final extinction is always 1.\n\nCiting historical examples of Galton–Watson process is complicated due to the history of family names often deviating significantly from the theoretical model. Notably, new names can be created, existing names can be changed over a person's lifetime, and people historically have often assumed names of unrelated persons, particularly nobility. Thus, a small number of family names at present is not in itself evidence for names having become extinct over time, or that they did so due to dying out of family name lines – that requires that there were more names in the past \"and\" that they die out due to the line dying out, rather than the name changing for other reasons, such as vassals assuming the name of their lord.\n\nChinese names are a well-studied example of surname extinction: there are currently only about 3,100 surnames in use in China, compared with close to 12,000 recorded in the past, with 22% of the population sharing the names Li, Wang and Zhang (numbering close to 300 million people), and the top 200 names covering 96% of the population. Names have changed or become extinct for various reasons such as people taking the names of their rulers, orthographic simplifications, taboos against using characters from an emperor's name, among others. While family name lines dying out may be a factor in the surname extinction, it is by no means the only or even a significant factor. Indeed, the most significant factor affecting the surname frequency is other ethnic groups identifying as Han and adopting Han names. Further, while new names have arisen for various reasons, this has been outweighed by old names disappearing.\n\nBy contrast, some nations have adopted family names only recently. This means both that they have not experienced surname extinction for an extended period, and that the names were adopted when the nation had a relatively large population, rather than the smaller populations of ancient times. Further, these names have often been chosen creatively and are very diverse. Examples include:\n\nOn the other hand, some examples of high concentration of family names is not primarily due to the Galton–Watson process:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2340111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2340111", "title": "George Alagiah", "text": "George Alagiah\n\nGeorge Maxwell Alagiah ( born 22 November 1955) is a British newsreader, journalist and television news presenter.\n\nSince 3 December 2007, he has been the presenter of the \"BBC News at Six\" and has also been the main presenter of \"GMT\" on BBC World News since its launch on 1 February 2010. He is also the main relief presenter for the \"BBC Ten O'Clock News\" and has held this role since its launch in 2000, making him the longest serving presenter of the flagship news programme.\n\nAlagiah was born in Colombo, Ceylon. His parents, Donald Alagiah, an engineer, and Therese, were Sri Lankan Tamil. In 1961, his parents moved to Ghana in West Africa, where he had his primary education at Christ the King International School. His secondary education took place at St John's College, an independent Roman Catholic school in Portsmouth, England, after which he read politics at Van Mildert College, Durham University. Whilst at Durham, he wrote for and became editor of the student newspaper \"Palatinate\" and was a sabbatical officer of Durham Students' Union. He worked on \"South Magazine\" from 1982 until joining the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), where he was the Developing World correspondent based in London and then Southern Africa correspondent in Johannesburg.\n\nIn 2004, he returned to his grandfather's original home in Sri Lanka in the aftermath of the Asian tsunami to survey the damage. The family's former home had been destroyed, but he was able to recognise an old well where he had played with his sisters, although the well was unsalvageable.\n\nAlagiah joined the BBC in 1989 after seven years in print journalism with \"South Magazine\". Before going behind the studio desk, he was one of the BBC's leading foreign correspondents, reporting on events ranging from the genocide in Rwanda to the plight of the Marsh Arabs in southern Iraq to the civil wars in Afghanistan, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Somalia.\n\nHe was the presenter of \"BBC Four News\" from its launch in 2002; the programme was later relaunched as \"The World\". In January 2003 he joined the \"BBC Six O'Clock News\", which he co-presented with Sophie Raworth until October 2005, and with Natasha Kaplinsky until October 2007. Since 3 December 2007, he has been the sole presenter of the \"Six O'Clock News\". Prior to that, he had been the deputy anchor of the \"BBC One O'Clock News\" and \"BBC Nine O'Clock News\" from 1999. Since 3 July 2006, he has presented \"World News Today\" on BBC World News and BBC Two, which was rebranded \"GMT\" on 1 February 2010. He is also a relief presenter on \"BBC News at Ten\" presenting mainly Monday to Thursday when Fiona Bruce is unavailable.\n\nA specialist on Africa and the developing world, Alagiah has interviewed, among others, Nelson Mandela, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, former Secretary-General of the United Nations Kofi Annan and President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe. His other documentaries and features include reports on why affirmative action in America is a 'Lost Cause', for the \"Assignment\" programme, Saddam Hussein's genocidal campaign against the Kurds of northern Iraq for the BBC's \"Newsnight\" programme and a report on the last reunion of the veterans of Dunkirk.\n\nHe earns £250,000 - £299,999 as a BBC presenter.\n\nIn 2000, Alagiah was part of the BBC team which collected a BAFTA award for its coverage of the Kosovo conflict. He has won numerous awards including \"Best International Report\" at the Royal Television Society in 1993 and in 1994 was the overall winner of the Amnesty International UK Media Awards. He was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2008 New Year Honours.\n\nHis appearances at literary festivals include Cheltenham, Keswick, Hay-on-Wye and London, and he has spoken at the Royal Geographical Society, the Royal Society of Arts and at the Royal Overseas League. He is on the Board of the Royal Shakespeare Company.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2009, Alagiah was a patron of the Fairtrade Foundation from which in July 2009, he was obliged to resign by BBC Management who claimed professional conflict of interest. Complaints were received at the BBC from the public who were unhappy that Alagiah had been asked to step down. The BBC responded that in keeping with its principles of impartiality, it would be inappropriate for one of its leading journalists to be seen supporting a movement that clearly represents a controversial view of global trade. He has also been actively involved in supporting microfinance as a tool for development, including recent appearances in support of Opportunity International. He has been a patron of Parenting UK since 2000.\n\nIn 2010, he received the Outstanding Achievement in Television award at the Asian Awards.\n\nHe is married to Frances Robathan, whom he met at Durham University. The couple have two children, Adam and Matthew. \nOn 17 April 2014, it was announced that Alagiah was being treated for colorectal cancer. A statement from the BBC said: \"He is grateful for all the good wishes he has received thus far and is optimistic for a positive outcome.\" On 28 June, Alagiah announced on Twitter that he was making \"encouraging progress\". Finally, in late October 2015, he announced on Twitter that the treatment was officially over and he subsequently returned to the BBC on 10 November. However, in January 2018 it emerged that the cancer had returned and he would undergo further treatment. \n\nIn March 2018, in an interview with \"The Sunday Times\", Alagiah noted that his cancer was terminal and could have been caught earlier if the screening programme in England, which is automatically offered from the age of 60, was the same as that in Scotland, where it is automatically offered from the age of 50.\n\n"}
{"id": "19380222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19380222", "title": "Ghede Nibo", "text": "Ghede Nibo\n\nGhede Nibo is a loa who is leader of the spirits of the dead in Haitian Vodou. Formerly human, Ghede Nibo was a handsome young man who was killed violently. After death, he was adopted as a loa by Baron Samedi and Maman Brigitte. He is envisioned as an effeminate, nasal dandy. Nibo wears a black riding coat or drag. When he inhabits humans they are inspired to lascivious sexuality of all kinds.\n\nBrav Ghede Nibo is a rada spirit, considered a great healer. He is seen carrying a bottle of white rum infused with medicinal herbs. Often he also carries a staff and smokes a cigar. Nibo is the special patron of those who die young, and as such is often conflated with the Catholic saint Gerard Majella, who is depicted with a skull. He is a psychopomp, an intermediary between the living and the dead. He gives voice to the dead spirits that have not been reclaimed from \"below the waters\". He is the guardian of the graves of those who died prematurely, particularly those whose final resting place is unknown. His \"chevals\" (\"horses\", possessed devotees) can give voice to the dead spirits whose bodies have not been found or that have not been reclaimed from \"below the waters\".\n\nPurple is considered his sacred color, and usual offerings include black goats, black roosters, calabash, cigars, coconut, fried plantains, pistachios, smoked herrings, sweet sesame balls, and white rum spiced with African bird pepper.\n\nUntil recently, Haitian farmers would perform a praise song to Ghede Nibo each November. It involved phallic thrusts and other erotic gestures and was named \"Massissi\", a Haitian term for a \"homoerotically inclined male\".\n\nThe Disney villain character Dr. Facilier in the animated fim \"The Princess and the Frog\" is loosely modelled on Ghede Nibo.\n\n"}
{"id": "57955744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57955744", "title": "Guns, goons, and gold", "text": "Guns, goons, and gold\n\nThe phrase \"guns, goons, and gold\", sometimes referred to as the \"Three Gs of Philippine Politics\" was a catchphrase coined by media to describe the violence and vote-buying which characterized the political campaign period in the Philippines, beginning with the presidential reelection campaign of 1969, declining only with the advent of electronic voting machines during the elections of 2010.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "36967572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36967572", "title": "Günter Hermann Ewen", "text": "Günter Hermann Ewen\n\nGünter Hermann Ewen (1962 – May 18, 1999) was a German mass murderer who killed four people and wounded at least nine others in Dillingen, Germany on May 16, 1999, before escaping to Sierck-les-Bains, France, where he killed another person, and wounded two more. Hunted by German and French police, he eventually committed suicide in a hotel in Strassen, Luxembourg on May 18.\n\nEwen was born in Dillingen in 1962, being the youngest and only boy among five siblings, and suffered from asthma from childhood. He showed little interest at school, had to repeat two grades and left Hauptschule after grade seven, whereupon he started an apprenticeship as a paver, which he quit after two years due to his ailment. Up to the age of 30 he lived with his parents and mostly worked odd jobs to earn money.\n\nAccording to conflicting reports Ewen began to consume alcohol excessively either at the age of twelve or eighteen, animated by one of his sisters' boyfriends, whom he admired for his rather wasteful lifestyle. As a youth he was arrested for theft, fraud, and battery, and starting in 1982 he was caught numerous times while driving under the influence of alcohol, which resulted in a three-month prison term when he was 26. Since 1990 he was arrested for acts of voyeurism and exhibitionism, and in February 1991 he was fined after masturbating in front of women at a tennis club. Six months later Ewen, in drunk condition, twice broke into a home for mentally disabled women and sexually molested them in their beds. One hour after the second such incident he raped a woman in her home.\n\nIn February 1993 Ewen was convicted for rape and sexual assault in three cases, and sentenced to a prison term of five years and six months. A psychologist found him to be a narcissist, who, in his infantile egocentrism, ruthlessly tried to satisfy his own needs, especially when under the influence of alcohol. In prison he was in therapy concerning his sex offences and was eventually released in October 1996, after serving two third of his sentence.\n\nOut of prison Ewen started his own business, but in August 1998 he was accused by his friend Robert Fisne of six counts of burglary, whereupon he was again arrested. He remained in remand until January 1999, when he was acquitted, since no incriminating evidence could be found and the testimony of Fisne, the only witness in the case, was vague and contradictory. Even though he left prison cleared of these accusations, the arrest turned out to be devastating to Ewen's personal life, as during this time his business went bankrupt, he lost his home, his girlfriend left him and he had accumulated DM 60,000 in debt, while the DM 3,000 granted as compensation for his wrongful imprisonment were barely enough to pay his attorney.\n\nEwen eventually found shelter at the home of his sister and brother-in-law in Beckingen where he lived up to the day of the shooting and helped renovating the building.\n\n"}
{"id": "7985846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7985846", "title": "Hacienda Nápoles", "text": "Hacienda Nápoles\n\nHacienda Nápoles (Spanish for \"Naples Estate\") was the luxurious estate built and owned by Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar in Puerto Triunfo, Antioquia Department, Colombia, approximately east of Medellín and northwest of Bogotá. The estate covers about of land. Following Escobar's death in 1993, many of the original buildings on the property were demolished or reconditioned for other uses.\n\nThe estate included a Spanish colonial house, a sculpture park, and a complete zoo that included many kinds of animals from different continents such as antelope, elephants, exotic birds, giraffes, hippopotamuses, ostriches, and ponies. The ranch also boasted a large collection of old and luxury cars and bikes, a private airport, a bullring, and even a kart-racing track. Mounted atop the hacienda's entrance gate is a replica of the Piper PA-18 Super Cub airplane (tail number HK-617-P) which transported Escobar's first shipment of cocaine to the United States.\n\nAfter Escobar was shot and killed by Colombian police in 1993, his family entered a legal struggle with the Colombian government over the property. The government prevailed, and the neglected property is now managed by the Municipality of Puerto Triunfo. The cost of maintenance for the zoo and the animals was too expensive for the government, so it was decided that most of the animals would be donated to Colombian and international zoos.\n\nOther original features include dinosaur statues built with bones in a section of the estate, along with prehistoric animal statues (such as the mammoth) that children can climb and play on, as well as decommissioned military vehicles and a giant hand sculpture.\n\nIn September 2006, there was a rumor about building an anti-crime museum about Pablo Escobar, a jail, and a theme park. The jail is currently under construction, and the dinosaur park has been restored.\nBy November 2006, ownership of the property had passed to the Colombian government and was valued at 5 billion Colombian pesos (approximately $2.23 million). The hacienda's zoo still hosts bison, a rare goat, one ostrich, and zebras. Escobar's hippopotamuses have escaped and become feral, living in at least four lakes in the area and spreading into neighbouring rivers. Contact between the hippos and local fishermen have led to calls for the hippo population to be culled. By 2011, there were at least 30 animals roaming wild in the countryside; the large number of hippos makes it difficult to find zoos into which they can be resettled. There are also reportedly 40 hippopotamuses living on the grounds of the hacienda itself; as of June 2014, the park's mascot, a live female hippo named Vanessa (who responds to her name), remains at the site.\n\nIn 2014, a \"Jurassic Park\"-style African theme park was operating on the grounds, which have been rented by a private company. \"Parque Temático Hacienda Nápoles\" comes complete with a water park, a guided safari attraction, aquariums, and a replica of the caves in Colombia's Cueva de los Guácharos National Park. In April 2014, a day ticket to the park cost 32,000 pesos (around $15). The Escobar museum, his burned private car collection, and the abandoned \"ruins\" of his house are still publicly accessible, but are reported to have collapsed in February 2015.\n\nEscobar kept four hippos in a private menagerie at Hacienda Nápoles. They were deemed too difficult to seize and move after Escobar's death, and hence left on the untended estate. By 2007, the animals had multiplied to 16 and had taken to roaming the area for food in the nearby Magdalena River. The National Geographic Channel produced a documentary about them titled \"Cocaine Hippos\". A report published in a Yale student magazine noted that local environmentalists are campaigning to protect the animals, although there is no clear plan for what will happen to them. In 2018, National Geographic published another article on the hippos which found disagreement among environmentalists on whether they were having a positive or negative impact, but that conservationists and locals - particularly those in the tourism industry - were mostly in support of their continued presence.\n"}
{"id": "953332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=953332", "title": "Haji Gokool Meah", "text": "Haji Gokool Meah\n\nHaji Gokool Meah (1847–1939) was a Kashmiri Indo-Trinidadian and Tobagonian industrialist and philanthropist. He was born into a Kashmiri Muslim family in Kashmir which then was part of the Princely State of Jammu and Kashmir at that time. He was originally named Modhoo. His father died shortly before his birth and his mother remarried.\n\nAs a small child, his family left Kashmir and ended up in Calcutta where in 1852 they signed up as indentured labourers bound for the sugarcane fields of Trinidad and Tobago. On January 25, 1853 they arrived in Trinidad aboard the \"Benares\". They were indentured at the Concord Estate in Pointe-à-Pierre. After three months, his mother died of malaria and his stepfather took little interest in him. He was informally adopted by a Hindu couple who gave him the name Gokool.\n\nOnce he was old enough, Gokool secured his own indentureship contract with the Concord Estate. He renewed his contract once it expired, and then went out on his own. He purchased a donkey cart and made a living hauling sugarcane to the factory at Usine Sainte Madeline, then the second largest sugar refinery in the world. After a few years of this trade, he sold his cart and established a shop in Danglade Village on the road to San Fernando (now part of the Petrotrin oil refinery at Pointe-à-Pierre). Gokool was a true entrepreneur who started off in the cane-cart business and then was a shopkeeper. By 1892, Gokool was able to purchase Diamond, Greenhill and River Estates, comprising almost the whole Diego Martin valley, which he developed as cocoa plantations.\n\nHe married Rojan and had 17 children, 11 of whom survived. From shopkeeping he moved on to cocoa cultivation, establishing one of the early cocoa plantations in the Diego Martin valley. From cocoa he moved on the real estate, by 1918, Gokool took advantage of recession prices in the wake of World War I and brought several properties in Port-of-Spain. This turned out to be a masterstroke in the long-run, becoming one of the major landlords in Port of Spain. In 1933, he also established himself as a cinema magnate, establishing the Metro cinema in collaboration with MGM. Gokool opened the cinema at the corner of St Vincent and Park Streets, called Green Corner, and called it the Metro Cinema. The ornate faux classical-style building, with its plush red-carpeted walls, could seat over 1,000 people in balcony and pit, and cost over $80,000 to construct. By comparison, in those days you could buy the whole of Aranguez for $22,000. The cinema was as big a hit as its films. He later split with MGM and renamed his cinema the Globe Cinema, eventually operating a string of five cinemas in Port of Spain and San Fernando. He also opened other Globe cinemas in Princes Town and Chaguanas. Gokool died in 1940, aged 92, leaving behind the cinemas he founded.\n\nIn 1922 he performed the Haj (Muslim pilgrimage to Mecca) with his son Noor. In 1927, he built a masjid in St James which stands to this day. In his will, he established the Haji Gokool Meah Trust, a trust to continue the charitable works which had earned him the title \"Meah\" (benefactor).\n\n"}
{"id": "37086780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37086780", "title": "James McGregor Stewart", "text": "James McGregor Stewart\n\nJames McGregor Stewart, (June 30, 1889 – February 11, 1955) was a corporate lawyer in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. Using crutches as a result of polio at age two, Stewart served as head of a Halifax law firm that became the largest law firm in Atlantic Canada and today bears his name, Stewart McKelvey. He also served as the President of the Canadian Bar Association in 1941-42. In 2000, Canadian Lawyer magazine named him one of Canada's ten greatest lawyers.\n\nStewart was a graduate of Pictou Academy in 1906 and a gold medalist at Dalhousie University in 1909. He graduated from Dalhousie Law School in 1914 at the top of his class where he was also President of the Students' Council. He was shortlisted for the Rhodes Scholarship but was not successful. The faculty senate at Dalhousie voted in 1910 not to appoint Stewart because he had had polio as a boy and walked with crutches. The motion proposed by Dean Richard Chapman Weldon read: \"Serious physical defects should be considered as rendering a candidate ineligible for the Rhodes Scholarship.\" \n\nStewart concluded his articles at a firm then known as Harris, Henry, Rogers & Harris and made partner within a year. He taught Real Property part-time at Dalhousie Law School and became head of his firm in 1927.\n\nHe served as the first Nova Scotian to be President of the Canadian Bar Association (CBA), elected as its thirteenth president in 1941. Stewart cancelled the 1942 meeting of the CBA at the government's request to avoid interference with the movement of wartime troops and supplies. He was honoured posthumously at a 1955 meeting of the CBA in Ottawa, along with Sir Lyman Duff and others.\n\nHe was a businessman, serving as a director of the board of many firms including Royal Bank of Canada, Sun Life, and Montreal Trust. He was also a President of Acadia Sugar Refining for many years and served as a lawyer to financier, Izaak Walton Killam and the Royal Securities Corporation where he played a role in the consolidation of the Nova Scotia fishing industry Stewart also played a role in the deal that established the seventeen million dollar Mersey paper mill. He also acted as a mentor to Frank Manning Covert who became a lawyer in his own right.\n\nHe appeared several times before the Supreme Court of Canada and Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC). In 1939, he participated in a radio debate on the CBC with Dean Frederick Cronkite of the University of Saskatchewan College of Law on the merits of appeals to the JCPC. Stewart argued in favour of continuing such appeals, praising the quality of the lords of appeal in ordinary who sat on the JCPC.\n\nHe served as Coal Controller during World War II for the Wartime Prices and Trade Board (WPTB) as a dollar-a-year man but was eventually asked to resign by C.D. Howe. In 1944, he was awarded the Commander of the Order of the British Empire, Civil Division for his distinguished wartime service.\n\nHe also was extremely active in the governance of Dalhousie University. He joined the Board of Governors in 1929 and was elected as chair of its Board of Governors in 1937. He actively sought the removal of its president, Carleton Stanley in the 1940s.\n\nStewart was also a collector of writings by Rudyard Kipling and met Kipling at his home in Sussex in 1932. A 673-page catalogue of Kipling's writings authored by Stewart was published posthumously in 1959 by Dalhousie University Press. Stewart donated the published portion of his Kipling Collection to Dalhousie University in 1954.\n\nA disability rights organization is named after Stewart, the James McGregor Stewart Society, and is active in the Halifax, Nova Scotia area.\n\n"}
{"id": "52381011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52381011", "title": "Jean-Claude Guillebaud", "text": "Jean-Claude Guillebaud\n\nJean-Claude Guillebaud (21 May 1944, Algiers) is a French writer, essayist, lecturer and journalist.\n\nA journalist at the daily \"Sud Ouest\", then at the newspaper \"Le Monde\" and the weekly \"Le Nouvel Observateur\", Jean-Claude Guillebaud also directed the organisation Reporters Without Borders. In 1972 he was the recipient of the Prix Albert-Londres. \nHe is a member of the sponsorship committee of the of the culture of peace and non-violence. In 2005, Guillebaud published \"\". He kept a weekly column on the life of the media in the television supplement of \"Le Nouvel Observateur\" before replacing Jacques Julliard as columnist at \"Le Nouvel Observateur\" from November 2010. He also keeps a chronicle of observation of French society and politics in the Catholic weekly \"La Vie\". Since June 2008, he has been a member of the supervisory board of the press group \"Bayard Presse\".\n\nIn 2016, he presided the 23rd \"Prix Bayeux-Calvados des correspondants de guerre\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1444920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1444920", "title": "John Fletcher (playwright)", "text": "John Fletcher (playwright)\n\nJohn Fletcher (1579–1625) was a Jacobean playwright. Following William Shakespeare as house playwright for the King's Men, he was among the most prolific and influential dramatists of his day; during his lifetime and in the early Restoration, his fame rivalled Shakespeare's. Though his reputation has been far eclipsed since, Fletcher remains an important transitional figure between the Elizabethan popular tradition and the popular drama of the Restoration.\n\nFletcher was born in December 1579 (baptised 20 December) in Rye, Sussex, and died of the plague in August 1625 (buried 29 August in St. Saviour's, Southwark). His father Richard Fletcher was an ambitious and successful cleric who was in turn Dean of Peterborough, Bishop of Bristol, Bishop of Worcester and Bishop of London (shortly before his death), as well as chaplain to Queen Elizabeth. As Dean of Peterborough, Richard Fletcher, at the execution of Mary, Queen of Scots at Fotheringay. \"knelt down on the scaffold steps and started to pray out loud and at length, in a prolonged and rhetorical style as though determined to force his way into the pages of history\". He cried out at her death, \"So perish all the Queen's enemies!\"\n\nRichard Fletcher died shortly after falling out of favour with the Queen, over a marriage she had advised against. He appears to have been partly rehabilitated before his death in 1596 but he died substantially in debt. The upbringing of John Fletcher and his seven siblings was entrusted to his paternal uncle Giles Fletcher, a poet and minor official. His uncle's connexions ceased to be a benefit and may even have become a liability after the rebellion of Robert Devereux the Earl of Essex, who had been his patron. Fletcher appears to have entered Corpus Christi College, Cambridge University in 1591, at the age of eleven. It is not certain that he took a degree but evidence suggests that he was preparing for a career in the church. Little is known about his time at college but he evidently followed the path previously trodden by the University wits before him, from Cambridge to the burgeoning commercial theatre of London.\n\nIn 1606, he began to appear as a playwright for the Children of the Queen's Revels, then performing at the Blackfriars Theatre. Commendatory verses by Richard Brome in the Beaumont and Fletcher 1647 folio place Fletcher in the company of Ben Jonson; a comment of Jonson's to Drummond corroborates this claim, although it is not known when this friendship began. At the beginning of his career, his most important association was with Francis Beaumont. The two wrote together for close on a decade, first for the children and then for the King's Men. According to an anecdote transmitted or invented by John Aubrey, they also lived together (in Bankside), sharing clothes and having \"one wench in the house between them\". This domestic arrangement, if it existed, was ended by Beaumont's marriage in 1613 and their dramatic partnership ended after Beaumont fell ill, probably of a stroke, the same year.\n\nBy this time, Fletcher had moved into a closer association with the King's Men. He collaborated with Shakespeare on \"Henry VIII\", \"The Two Noble Kinsmen\" and the lost \"Cardenio\", which is probably (according to some modern scholars) the basis for Lewis Theobald's play \"Double Falsehood\". A play he wrote singly around this time, \"The Woman's Prize or the Tamer Tamed\", is a sequel to \"The Taming of the Shrew\". In 1616, after Shakespeare's death, Fletcher appears to have entered into an exclusive arrangement with the King's Men similar to Shakespeare's. Fletcher wrote only for that company between the death of Shakespeare and his death nine years later. He never lost his habit of collaboration, working with Nathan Field and later with Philip Massinger, who succeeded him as house playwright for the King's Men. His popularity continued throughout his life; during the winter of 1621, three of his plays were performed at court. He died in 1625, apparently of the plague. He seems to have been buried in what is now Southwark Cathedral, although the precise location is not known; there is a reference by Aston Cockayne to a common grave for Fletcher and Massinger (also buried in Southwark). What is more certain is that two simple adjacent stones in the floor of the Choir of Southwark Cathedral, one marked 'Edmond Shakespeare 1607' the other 'John Fletcher 1625' refer to Shakespeare's younger brother and the playwright. His mastery is most notable in two dramatic types, tragicomedy and comedy of manners.\n\nFletcher's early career was marked by one significant failure, of \"The Faithful Shepherdess\", his adaptation of Giovanni Battista Guarini's \"Il Pastor Fido\", which was performed by the Blackfriars Children in 1608. In the preface to the printed edition of his play, Fletcher explained the failure as due to his audience's faulty expectations. They expected a pastoral tragicomedy to feature dances, comedy and murder, with the shepherds presented in conventional stereotypes—as Fletcher put it, wearing \"gray cloaks, with curtailed dogs in strings\". Fletcher's preface in defence of his play is best known for its pithy definition of tragicomedy: \"A tragicomedy is not so called in respect of mirth and killing, but in respect it wants [i.e., lacks] deaths, which is enough to make it no tragedy; yet brings some near it, which is enough to make it no comedy\". A comedy, he went on to say, must be \"a representation of familiar people\" and the preface is critical of drama that features characters whose action violates nature.\n\nFletcher appears to have been developing a new style faster than audiences could comprehend. By 1609, however, he had found his voice. With Beaumont, he wrote \"Philaster\", which became a hit for the King's Men and began a profitable connexion between Fletcher and that company. \"Philaster\" appears also to have initiated a vogue for tragicomedy; Fletcher's influence has been credited with inspiring some features of Shakespeare's late romances (Kirsch, 288–90) and his influence on the tragicomic work of other playwrights is even more marked. By the middle of the 1610s, Fletcher's plays had achieved a popularity that rivalled Shakespeare's and cemented the pre-eminence of the King's Men in Jacobean London. After Beaumont's retirement and early death in 1616, Fletcher continued working, singly and in collaboration, until his death in 1625. By that time, he had produced or had been credited with, close to fifty plays. This body of work remained a big part of the King's Men's repertory until the closing of the theatres in 1642.\n\nDuring the Commonwealth, many of the playwright's best-known scenes were kept alive as drolls, the brief performances devised to satisfy the taste for plays while the theatres were suppressed. At the re-opening of the theatres in 1660, the plays in the Fletcher canon, in original form or revised, were by far the most common fare on the English stage. The most frequently revived plays suggest the developing taste for comedies of manners. Among the tragedies, \"The Maid's Tragedy\" and especially, \"Rollo Duke of Normandy\" held the stage. Four tragicomedies (\"A King and No King\", \"The Humorous Lieutenant\", \"Philaster\" and \"The Island Princess\") were popular, perhaps in part for their similarity to and foreshadowing of heroic drama. Four comedies (\"Rule a Wife And Have a Wife\", \"The Chances\", \"Beggars' Bush\" and especially \"The Scornful Lady\") were also popular. Fletcher's plays, relative to those of Shakespeare and to new productions, declined. By around 1710, Shakespeare's plays were more frequently performed and the rest of the century saw a steady erosion in performance of Fletcher's plays. By 1784, Thomas Davies asserted that only \"Rule a Wife\" and \"The Chances\" were still on stage. A generation later, Alexander Dyce mentioned only \"The Chances\". Since then Fletcher has increasingly become a subject only for occasional revivals and for specialists. Fletcher and his collaborators have been the subject of important bibliographic and critical studies but the plays have been revived only infrequently.\n\nBecause Fletcher collaborated regularly and widely, attempts to separate Fletcher's work from this collaborative fabric have experienced difficulties in attribution. Fletcher collaborated most often with Beaumont and Massinger but also with Nathan Field, Shakespeare and others. Some of his early collaborations with Beaumont were later revised by Massinger, adding another layer of complexity to the collaborative texture of the works. According to scholars such as Hoy, Fletcher used distinctive mannerisms that Hoy argued identify his presence. According to Hoy's figures, he frequently uses \"ye\" instead of \"you\" at rates sometimes approaching 50 per cent. He employs \"'em\" for \"them\", along with a set of other preferences in contractions. He adds a sixth stressed syllable to a standard pentameter verse line—most often \"sir\" but also \"too\" or \"still\" or \"next\". Various other habits and preferences may reveal his hand. The detection of this pattern, a Fletcherian textual profile, has persuaded some researchers that they have penetrated the Fletcher canon with what they consider success—and has in turn encouraged the use of similar techniques in the study of literature. [See: stylometry.] Scholars such as Jeffrey Masten and Gordon McMullan, have pointed out limitations of logic and method in Hoy's and others' attempts to distinguish playwrights on the basis of style and linguistic preferences.\n\nBibliography has attempted to establish the writers of each play. Attempts to determine the exact \"shares\" of each writer (for instance by Cyrus Hoy) in particular plays continues, based on patterns of textual and linguistic preferences, style and idiosyncrasies of spelling.\n\nThe list that follows gives a tentative verdict on the writing of the plays in Fletcher's canon, with likeliest composition dates, dates of first publication and dates of licensing by the Master of the Revels, where available.\n\n\nWith Francis Beaumont:\n\nWith Beaumont and Massinger:\n\nWith Massinger:\n\nWith Massinger and Field:\n\nWith Shakespeare:\n\nWith Middleton and Rowley:\n\nWith Rowley:\n\nWith Field:\n\nWith Massinger, Jonson, and Chapman:\n\nWith Shirley:\n\nUncertain:\n\n\"The Nice Valour\" may be a play by Fletcher revised by Thomas Middleton; \"The Fair Maid of the Inn\" is perhaps a play by Massinger, John Ford and John Webster, either with or without Fletcher's involvement. \"The Laws of Candy\" has been variously attributed to Fletcher and to John Ford. \"The Night-Walker\" was a Fletcher original, with additions by Shirley for a 1639 production. Some of the attributions given above are disputed by scholars, as noted in connexion with \"Four Plays in One\". \"Rollo Duke of Normandy\", an especially difficult case and source of much disagreement among scholars, may have been written around 1617 and later revised by Massinger.\n\nThe first Beaumont and Fletcher folio of 1647 collected 35 plays, most not published before. The second folio of 1679 added 18 more, for a total of 53. The first folio included \"The Masque of the Inner Temple and Gray's Inn\" (1613) and the second \"The Knight of the Burning Pestle\" (1607) are widely considered to be solo works, although the latter was in early editions attributed to both writers. \"Sir John Van Olden Barnavelt\", existed in manuscript and was not published till 1883. In 1640 James Shirley's \"The Coronation\" was misattributed to Fletcher upon its initial publication and was included in the second Beaumont and Fletcher folio of 1679.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54600476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54600476", "title": "John Moffatt (physicist)", "text": "John Moffatt (physicist)\n\nJohn Moffatt (12 October 1922 – 23 December 2013) was a British physicist and academic. He was the Provost of The Queen's College, Oxford from 1987 to 1993.\n\nMoffatt was born on 12 October 1922 to Jacob and Ethel Moffatt. He was educated at Keighley Boys' Grammar School, an all-boys grammar school in Keighley, Yorkshire. He studied at Magdalen College, Oxford, and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts (BA), later promoted to Master of Arts (MA Oxon) degree, and a Doctor of Philosophy (DPhil) degree.\n\nFrom 1942 to 1946, Moffatt was involved in radar research with British Thomson-Houston. Having joined the University of Oxford, he worked as a senior research officer at its Clarendon Laboratory. In 1950, he was elected a fellow and praelector in physics. He was also a lecturer in the Department of Nuclear Physics from 1965 and served as senior tutor of his college from 1972 to 1976. He served as Provost of The Queen's College, Oxford between 1987 and 1993. He retired from academia in 1993 and was appointed an honorary fellow.\n\nIn 1949, Moffatt married Una Lamorna Morris; she predeceased him, dying in 1992. Together they had one daughter.\n\nMoffatt died on 23 December 2013, aged 91 years.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "27081068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27081068", "title": "Joseph Entulu Belaun", "text": "Joseph Entulu Belaun\n\nDatuk Joseph Entulu Belaun (born 8 June 1954) is a Malaysian politician. He was a Minister in the Prime Minister's Department and a Member of Parliament of Malaysia for the Selangau constituency in Sarawak, representing the Sarawak People's Party (PRS) from 2004 until the dissolution of the Parliament on 7 April 2018.\n\nEntulu was elected to Parliament in the 2004 general elections. Before his election, he was Assistant Minister to the Chief Minister of Sarawak. He was first elected to Parliament as a member of the Sarawak Native People's Party (PBDS), but joined the PRS after the PBDS was deregistered in 2004. He was the Deputy President of the PRS until his sacking in April 2018, which was announced by the PRS President Dr. James Jemut Masing.\n\nEntulu was re-elected unopposed to Parliament in the 2008 general elections. In October 2008, he was conferred the title of \"Datuk\".\n\nImmediately after his election in 2004, Entulu was appointed to the federal level as Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister's Department. After the 2008 general elections he became Deputy Minister of Rural and Regional Development, and after the 2013 general elections was promoted as a full minister as a Minister in the Prime Minister's Department.\n\nHe has spoken out against the use of the term \"Dayak\" as a generic descriptor of Sarawak's indigenous non-Muslim residents, preferring instead specific terms for each community.\n\nOn 13 May 2018, People's Justice Party (PKR) Women chief Zuraida Kamaruddin announced that Entulu has joined its ranks as a party member in a press conference in Cheras.\n\n"}
{"id": "11032294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11032294", "title": "Lady Florence Dixie", "text": "Lady Florence Dixie\n\nLady Florence Caroline Dixie (née Douglas; 25 May 18557 November 1905), was a Scottish traveller, war correspondent, writer and feminist. Her account of travelling \"Across Patagonia\", her children's books \"The Young Castaways\" and \"Aniwee, or, The Warrior Queen\", and her feminist utopia \"Gloriana, or the Revolution of 1900\" all deal with feminist themes related to girls, women, and their positions in society.\n\nBorn in Cummertrees, Dumfries, Scotland on 25 May 1855, Lady Florence Douglas was the daughter of Caroline Margaret Clayton (1821–1904), daughter of General Sir William Clayton, 5th Baronet (1786–1866), Member of Parliament for Great Marlow and Archibald Douglas (18 April 1818 – 6 August 1858) 8th Marquess of Queensberry.\n\nShe had a twin brother, Lord James Edward Sholto Douglas (d. 1891), an older sister, Lady Gertrude Douglas (1842–1893), and three older brothers: John, Viscount Drumlanrig (1844–1900), later 9th Marquess of Queensberry, Lord Francis Douglas (1847–1865), and Reverend Lord Archibald Edward Douglas (1850–1938).\n\nFlorence has been described as a tomboy who tried to match her brothers in physical activities, whether swimming, riding, or hunting. She rode astride, wore her hair short in a boyish crop, and refused to conform to fashion when being presented to Queen Victoria. She and her twin brother James were particularly close during childhood, calling each other \"Darling\" (Florence) and \"Dearest\" (James). She was also close to her older brother John, whom she resembled in temperament, both being \"fearless, dynamic and opinionated\".\n\nHer childhood was marked by a number of dramatic and even tragic events. On 6 August 1858, when she was 3, Lady Florence's father died in what was reported as a shooting accident, but was widely believed to have been suicide. In 1862 his widow Caroline acted upon a long-formed conviction and converted to Catholicism. She took her youngest children, Archibald (12), Florence and James (7) to France, where she could educate them as she wished. This led the children's guardians to threaten Lady Queensberry with the loss of her children under English law. The three were too young to choose a guardian under Scottish law. They remained in France for two years. Falconer Atlee, British Consul at Nantes, offered them a place of safety when their first location was discovered, and Emperor Napoleon III eventually extended her his protection, ensuring that she could retain custody of the children. Archibald converted and took holy orders, becoming a Roman Catholic priest. Caroline's older daughter, Gertrude, also became Catholic. When her Protestant fiancé would not agree to raise their children in the Catholic faith, Gertrude's engagement was broken off. She entered a convent in Hammersmith and completed her novitiate to become a Sister of the Black Veil in 1867, but later left the order.\n\nEventually, it was agreed that Caroline would retain custody of the children, and they returned to England. Lady Florence was originally educated at home by a governess, but is described as \"defiant, rebellious and restless\". After returning from France at age 9, the twins were separated. James was sent to a Catholic boarding school, and Florence to a convent school, which she hated. She apparently found some consolation in writing poetry: her childhood verses were published much later as \"The songs of a child, and other poems\", under the pseudonym 'Darling'.\n\nAnother tragedy struck the family just days before Florence's eldest brother, John Douglas, was to assume his majority as 9th Marquess of Queensberry. As guests gathered for a lavish celebration, word came that on 14 Jul 1865, 18-year-old Lord Francis Douglas had fallen to his death with three others, after achieving the first successful ascent of the Matterhorn. Queensberry travelled post-haste to Zermatt with the intention of bringing home his brother's body, but nothing had been found of Lord Francis but some tattered shreds of his clothing. Queensberry, alone, without a guide, and starting by moonlight, attacked the Matterhorn himself and made it as far as \"the Hut\". It was largely a matter of chance that two guides found and rescued him before he died of cold. He wrote apologetically to Florence, \"I thought and thought where he was, and called him, and wondered if I should ever see him again. I was half mad with misery, [Florence], and I could not help it.\" \"Exceedingly amiable and talented\" Francis' loss was deeply felt by his family. In 1876, Florence would accompany Queensbury on his return to Zermatt, and he would show her the slopes where Francis had died. Beyond the family, the tragedy was a long-running sensation, reported by newspapers all over the world, often in tones both sensational and denunciatory.\n\nOn 3 April 1875, at the age of nineteen, Douglas married Sir Alexander Beaumont Churchill Dixie, 11th Baronet (1851–1924), known as \"Sir A.B.C.D.\" or \"Beau\". Beau, who had succeeded his father as the 11th baronet on 8 January 1872, had an income of £10,000 per year, a seat at Bosworth Hall, near Market Bosworth, Leicestershire, and a London townhouse in the fashionable residential district of Mayfair. He served as High Sheriff of Leicestershire for 1876. Though Florence was only five feet tall, while Beau stood 6′ 2″, Florence became the dominant partner in the marriage, reportedly ruling her husband \"with a rod of iron\".\n\nThe young couple had two sons, George Douglas (born 18 January 1876), who later became the 12th baronet, and Albert Edward Wolstan (born 26 September 1878, died 1940), whose godfather was the Prince of Wales.\n\nBoth husband and wife shared a love of adventure and the outdoor life, and are generally considered to have had a happy marriage, certainly the happiest of the Douglas siblings. Nonetheless, Beau's habits of drinking and of gambling for high stakes had catastrophic consequences for the family. The couple were reportedly referred to by contemporaries as \"Sir Always and Lady Sometimes Tipsy\". In 1885 Beau's ancestral home and estate at Bosworth were sold to pay his debts.\n\nFollowing loss of the estate, the couple moved to Glen Stuart, Annan, Dumfriesshire, Scotland. One of the houses on Lord Queensberry's Scottish estate of Kinmount, it had previously been the home of Lady Florence's mother, the Dowager Marchioness.\n\nIn 1877, Lady Florence published her first novel, \"Abel Avenged: a Dramatic Tragedy\". A number of Dixie's books, particularly her children's books \"The Young Castaways, or, The Child Hunters of Patagonia\" and \"Aniwee, or, The Warrior Queen\", and her adult novels \"Gloriana, or the Revolution of 1900\" and \"Isola, or the Disinherited: A Revolt for Woman and all the Disinherited\" develop feminist themes related to girls, women, and their positions in society. Her final novel, a semi-autobiographical work entitled \"The Story of Ijain, or the Evolution of a Mind\" appeared in 1903.\n\nAlthough she published fiction for both adults and children, Dixie is best remembered for her travel books, \"Across Patagonia\" (1880) and \"In the Land of Misfortune\" (1882), both of which are still reprinted. In these books Dixie presents herself as the protagonist of the story. By doing so she defies the male tradition of quoting other travel writers who have visited and written on the area, and creates a unique feminine style of travel writing in the nineteenth century.\n\nIn December 1878, two months after the birth of their second son, Edward, Dixie and her husband left their aristocratic life and their children behind them in England and traveled to Patagonia. She was the only female in her traveling party. She set out accompanied by her brothers, Lord Queensberry and Lord James Douglas, her husband Sir Alexander Beaumont Churchill Dixie, and Julius Beerbohm. Beerbohm, a family friend, was hired as the group's guide because of his previous experience in Patagonia. Dixie debated going elsewhere, but chose Patagonia because few European men, and no European women, had ever set foot there. (Although reasonably accurate in terms of travelers' accounts, this claim ignores Britain's active economic involvement in the region.)\n\nOnce in Patagonia, Dixie paints a picture of the landscape using techniques reminiscent of the Romantic tradition of William Wordsworth and others, using emotion and physical sensation to connect to the natural world. While she describes the land as \"uninviting and feared territory\", Dixie's actions demonstrate that survival in a wild land requires both strength and agency.\nDuring her travels in Patagonia, Dixie is \"active, hardy, and resilient\", rejecting Victorian gender constructs that depicted women as weak and in need of protection. Furthermore, in writing \"Across Patagonia\" (1880), Dixie never mentions her husband by name or title (simply referring to him as \"my husband\"), and presents herself as the expedition hero rather than the men being the heroes of the story. She recounts times where she outsmarts or outlasts the men or remains their equal.\n\nWhile social issues such as European women's suffrage can be seen in her narrative, she says little about the natives of Patagonia. She has been criticized by Monica Szurmuk for not addressing the military campaigns of General Julio Argentino Roca against indigenous people of the time. However, Szurmuk also notes that Dixie's writing has a transgressive quality that acknowledges mutuality:\n\nLady Dixie shared her observations of Patagonia with Charles Darwin. She took issue with Darwin's description of the Tuco-tuco in his \"Journal of Researches\" (1839). While Darwin had suggested that the Tuco-tuco were nocturnal creatures that lived almost entirely underground, Lady Dixie had seen the Tuco-tuco out during the daytime. She sent Darwin a copy of \"Across Patagonia\"; Darwin's copy of this book is part of the Library of Charles Darwin located in the Rare Books Room of Cambridge University Library.\n\nWhen she returned from Patagonia, Dixie brought home with her a jaguar, which she called Affums and kept as a pet. Affums killed several deer in Windsor Great Park and had to be sent to a zoo.\n\nA hotel at Puerto Natales in the Chilean part of Patagonia is named the \"Hotel Lady Florence Dixie\" in her honor.\n\nHer experiences in Patagonia inspire much of her later work, both her writing for children, and her work with the women's suffrage movement. Her two children's books, \"The Young Castaways\" and its sequel \"Aniwee\", are set in Patagonia and depict strong female characters.\n\nIn 1881, Dixie was appointed as a field correspondent of the \"Morning Post\" of London to cover the First Boer War (1880–1881) and the aftermath of the Anglo-Zulu War. She and her husband traveled to South Africa together. In Cape Town, she stayed with the Governor of the Cape Colony. She visited Zululand, and on her return interviewed the Zulu king Cetshwayo, being held in detention by the British.\n\nHer reports, followed by her \"A Defence of Zululand and Its King from the Blue Book\" (1882) and \"In the Land of Misfortune\" (1882), were instrumental in Cetshwayo's brief restoration to his throne in 1883. In Dixie's \"In the Land of Misfortune\", there is a struggle between her individualism and her identification with the power of the British Empire, but for all of her sympathy with the Zulu cause and with Cetshwayo, she remained at heart an imperialist.\n\nDixie held strong views on the emancipation of women, proposing that the sexes should be equal in marriage and divorce, that the Crown should be inherited by the monarch's oldest child, regardless of sex, and even that men and women should wear the same clothes. She was a member of the National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies, and her obituary in the \"Englishwoman's Review\" emphasized her support for the cause of women's suffrage (i.e. the right to vote): \"Lady Florence... threw herself eagerly into the Women's Movement, and spoke on public platforms.\" \n\nIn 1890, Dixie published a utopian novel, \"Gloriana, or the Revolution of 1900\", which has been described as a feminist fantasy. It also interweaves elements of romance and detective fiction. In it, women win the right to vote, as the result of the protagonist, Gloriana, posing as a man, Hector D'Estrange, and being elected to the House of Commons. The character of D'Estrange is reflective of Oscar Wilde, but perhaps even more so of Dixie herself. Another of the many active, competent and powerful women characters in the book is Scottish Lady Flora Desmond (who, as \"The Athenaeum\" pointed out, has a name very similar to the author). Flora helps to organize a 200,000 member Women's Volunteer force, and herself leads their elite mounted White Regiment. A host of women characters are instrumental to the plot, both in supporting and opposing the hero/heroine: as noted by Walker, the adventures in \"Gloriana\" occur to women rather than to men.\n\nThe book ends in the year 1999, with a description of a prosperous and peaceful Britain whose government has deeply benefited from the engagement of women. In the preface to the novel, Dixie proposes not only women's suffrage, but that the two sexes should be educated together and that all professions and positions should be open to both. In the novel, she goes farther and says:\n\nDixie played a key role is establishing the game of women's association football, organizing exhibition matches for charity, and in 1895 she became President of the British Ladies' Football Club, stipulating that \"the girls should enter into the spirit of the game with heart and soul.\" She arranged for a women's football team from London to tour Scotland.\n\nDuring her early life and travels, Dixie was an enthusiastic sportswoman, an intrepid rider and shot. As the following reminiscence shows, part of the appeal of hunting in Leicestershire was the opportunity to compete on an equal footing with active male peers:\n\nDixie's skills on horseback were sufficient to be mentioned in sporting magazines. The following account gives a vivid idea of the risks involved in a fox hunt:\n\nIn Patagonia, survival of the party as a whole depended on the equal participation of all those within it. Dixie shared the responsibility and the dangers of necessary tasks such as hunting for food for the party.\n\nHowever, she was also \"haunted by a sad remorse\" for the death of a beautiful golden deer of the Cordilleras, which was exceedingly tame and trusting. During the 1890s, Dixie's views on field sports changed dramatically, and in her book \"The Horrors of Sport\" (1891) she condemned blood sports as cruel.\n\nDixie was an enthusiastic writer of letters to newspapers on liberal and progressive issues, including support for Scottish and Irish Home Rule. \nHer article \"The Case of Ireland\" was published in \"Vanity Fair\" on 27 May 1882.\n\nNevertheless, she was critical of the Irish Land League and the Fenians, who reportedly made an unsuccessful attempt to attack her in March 1883.\n\nReports were published of an attempt to assassinate Lady Florence Dixie at her residence, the Fishery, situated near the Thames, and about two and a half miles from Windsor. Lady Florence Dixie gave the following account to the newspapers:\n\nQuestions were raised in the House of Commons on 19 and 20 March,\n\nand again on the 29th, about the investigation, but Lady Dixie's account was not supported by others, and was dismissed.\nIn her obituary, printed 8 November 1905, \"The New York Times\" suggested that Dixie had claimed to be kidnapped by Irish agitators.\n\nLady Florence Dixie died of diphtheria on 7 November 1905. \"The New York Times\" reported that the \"Author, Champion of Woman's Rights, and War Correspondent\" had died on 7 November at her home in Glen Stuart, Dumfriesshire.\n\nA monochrome lithograph of Dixie by Andrew Maclure was published in 1877. She is seated on horseback and holding a riding crop. A copy is in the National Portrait Gallery.\n\nA more significant lithograph, by Théobald Chartran, printed in colour, appeared in \"Vanity Fair\" in 1884 and is one of the long series of caricatures published in the magazine between 1868 and 1914. These were all coloured illustrations featuring notable people of the day, and each was accompanied by a short (usually adulatory) biography. Of more than two thousand people so honoured, only eighteen were women. Featured in the magazine on 5 January 1884, she joined this small band, which included Queen Isabella II of Spain (1869), Sarah Bernhardt (1879), the Princess of Wales (1882) and Angela Burdett-Coutts, 1st Baroness Burdett-Coutts (1883). Victoria, Princess Royal, and Elizabeth, Empress of Austria, followed later in 1884.\n\nThe published works of Lady Florence Dixie include:\n\n\n\nUnpublished works include:\n\n\n\nLady Florence Dixie's eldest son, George Douglas Dixie (18 January 1876 – 25 December 1948) served in the Royal Navy as a midshipman and was commissioned into the King's Own Scottish Borderers in 1895. On 26 November 1914, he was promoted a temporary captain in the 5th Battalion the KOSB. He married Margaret Lindsay, daughter of Sir Alexander Jardine, 8th Baronet, and in 1924 succeeded to his father's title and was known as Sir Douglas Dixie, 12th Baronet.\n\nWhen he died in 1948, Sir Douglas was succeeded by his son, Sir (Alexander Archibald Douglas) Wolstan Dixie, 13th and last Baronet (8 January 1910 – 28 December 1975). The 13th Bt. married Dorothy Penelope King-Kirkman in 1950, as his second wife. They had two daughters; 1) Eleanor Barbara Lindsay; and 2) Caroline Mary Jane. Both daughters have issue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27905125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27905125", "title": "Les Brown (speaker)", "text": "Les Brown (speaker)\n\nLeslie Calvin \"Les\" Brown (born February 17, 1945) is an American motivational speaker, author, radio DJ, former television host, and former politician. As a politician, he is a former member of the Ohio House of Representatives. As a motivational speaker, he uses the catch phrase \"it's possible!\" and teaches people to follow their dreams as he learned to do. He was the host of \"The Les Brown Show\".\n\nBrown was born with his twin brother, Wesley, in an abandoned building in Liberty City, a low-income section of Miami, Florida. He was subsequently given up for adoption and adopted by Mamie Brown, a 38-year-old single woman who worked as a cafeteria attendant and domestic assistant. He was declared \"educable mentally retarded\" while in grade school. Despite the self-esteem and confidence loss issues this created, he learned how to reach his full potential with the encouragement of his mother and assistance from a helpful teacher in high school, a key point in many motivational speeches he gives.\n\nAccording to many of Brown's speeches, he first decided to get into public radio and kept returning to the same radio station time and time again looking for a break. It wasn't until the on-air failures of the afternoon DJ that he took his break in radio into his own hands and was hired full-time as on-air talent. Upon his termination from the radio station, he ran for election in the Ohio House of Representatives and won. After leaving the Ohio state legislature, he decided to get into television and eventually ended up on PBS. He also formed Les Brown Enterprises in order to support his newest career as a motivational speaker and was on KFWB in California on a daily syndicated radio program from 2011 to 2012. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, he also won many local and national awards for excellence and he has an Emmy to his name. Brown was a member of the Peabody Awards Board of Jurors from 1982 to 1988.\n\nIn 1993, he began hosting a new talk show, \"The Les Brown Show\", which began airing on September 6, 1993. After nearly four months, it went on hiatus on December 3, 1993, and on January 17, 1994, King World Productions replaced this with \"Rolonda\", a show hosted by Rolonda Watts.\n\nLes collaborated with John C. Maxwell and The John Maxwell Team for a candid look into the lives of professional speakers called \"The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly\".\n\nBrown married Gladys Knight in 1995; they divorced in 1997. He has ten children: Calvin, Patrick, John Andrew, Ona, Ayanna, Tayloria, Thad, Sumaya, Serena and John-Leslie. He also has 15 grandchildren and two great grandchildren.\n\nCouncil of Peers Award of Excellence, National Speakers Association, 1989; regional Emmy Award (Chicago), 1991, for the program You Deserve with Les Brown; selected as one of America’s top five speakers, Toastmasters International, 1992.\n"}
{"id": "36556337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36556337", "title": "List of The Glass House season 1 contestants", "text": "List of The Glass House season 1 contestants\n\nThe first season of \"The Glass House\" featured 14 contestants also known as The Players. When the original fourteen players were revealed, a woman named Melissa was included. Days after the announcement, however, she was removed from ABC's website, and had been replaced with Holly. ABC has yet to confirm why Melissa did not participate on the show. The original fourteen players entered the house on June 10.\n\nAlex Stein is a 25-year-old bail bondsman from Dallas, Texas. Alex often referred to himself as \"Primetime 99\" both inside and outside of the house, with the 99 standing for his jersey number when he played football in high school. In the first week, Alex asked the viewers whether he should be the villain of the house or not, with the fans giving him the answer \"yes\". Following numerous personal attacks towards the other contestants, Alex was voted into limbo, receiving a total of ten votes against him. On Day 9, Alex was officially eliminated from the show, with the viewers choosing for him not to return. He later revealed to Rob Cesternino during a live podcast that the vote was \"very close\". Alex returned to the house on Day 33 to deliver the \"fanswers\" of the week, and left minutes later. He also appeared on the 4th season of \"Worst Cooks in America\" on Bobby Flay's team and was eliminated in the 3rd week. He later appeared as one of the bachelors on the CMT reality dating show, \"Sweet Home Alabama.\"\n\nAndrea Clark is a 31-year-old bookkeeper from Valencia, California. Shortly after the cast reveal, a photo of Andrea, her husband, and her children holding up signs in support of Proposition 8 appeared online, causing controversy. The topic would later be brought up in the house, causing Andrea to engage in numerous arguments with openly gay contestant Jeffrey. In the third week, after numerous arguments over the subject of gay marriage, Jeffrey began campaigning for the house to send Andrea to limbo along with Robin. On Day 19, however, the vote came down to a five to five tie with Andrea and Erica, with Robin later choosing to take Erica to limbo with her. On Day 33, Andrea was sent to limbo, receiving four votes from the other contestants. She later returned to the house, with Holly being eliminated. On Day 46, Andrea won a total of $623 in an aquatic themed activity. She was sent into limbo for a second time in Week 7, along with Joy. Andrea later returned to the house, making her the first contestant to successfully escape limbo twice. She came in 3rd place overall.\n\nApollo Poetry is a 28-year-old poet and magician from Phoenix, Arizona. Apollo was a cast member in House of Glass: The first week, he stated his plan on choosing on who to send to limbo would involve all eligible contestants drawing a card, with the person who drew the four card being Apollo's choice on who to send to limbo. The strategy annoyed several of his fellow contestants. On Day 9, Apollo was announced as one of the team captains, along with Ashley. After losing the team competition, Apollo was sent to limbo on Day 11, along with Holly. He was eliminated on Day 16, receiving fewer votes to stay than Holly.\n\nAshley Forrestier is a 30-year-old paralegal from New Orleans, Louisiana. Before entering the game, Ashley released her debut extended play \"The Creole1Queen\". Ashley celebrated her birthday on Day 9 in the house. She often clashed with Erica and Jeffrey in the house following the debate over gay marriage. Ashley was voted as Team Captain by the viewers for three weeks in a row, winning the team challenge the first two weeks and being sent to limbo the third. On Day 30, Ashley was eliminated from the house.\n\nErica Russell is a 27-year-old cocktail waitress from Denver, Colorado. Upon entering the house, Erica formed an immediate friendship with Jeffrey, and also has close relationships with Joy and Stephanie in the house. While in the house, Erica and Kevin had a somewhat romantic relationship in the house, in which the two drunkenly shared a kiss. Following the kiss, Erica admitted she had feelings for Kevin, which he stated he did not reciprocate. In the first few weeks, Erica and fellow contestant Holly had several arguments, beginning after Holly chose to send Erica to limbo the first week. Holly would go on to vote for Erica three weeks in a row, causing a further division between the two. Erica was sent to limbo during the third week along with Robin, but later returned. She was sent to limbo for a second time on Day 54, along with Gene. On Day 58, Erica returned to the house after receiving more votes to stay. She came in 2nd place overall.\n\nGene \"Hollywood\" is a 28-year-old stuntman from Chicago, Illinois. While in the house, Gene had a romantic relationship with fellow contestant Joy. Throughout his stay, many contestants grew annoyed with him playing all sides of the house and his supposed cockiness. He was a Team Captain in week 8, and was sent to limbo with Erica after losing the challenge. On Day 58, he was eliminated from the house, with Erica receiving more votes to stay.\n\nHolly Yako is a 21-year-old who works in retail sales from Detroit, Michigan. Holly didn't get along with several of the female contestants, and she later revealed that she felt it was because they were \"jealous\" of her. Holly also had an ongoing feud with fellow contestant Erica, beginning after Holly chose to send Erica to limbo three consecutive weeks. Holly was sent to limbo on Day 11, after admitting to have lied about her occupation. She later returned after Apollo was eliminated. She was a Team Captain in the fourth week, but her team won the team challenge for the week. The following week she was Team Captain again, and lost the challenge. She was sent to limbo with Andrea. On Day 37, Holly was eliminated from the house.\n\nJacob Weston is a 28-year-old cook from Coos Bay, Oregon. While in the house, Jacob had a close friendship with fellow contestant Alex. He was the team captain of the losing team on Day 2 in the game, and was later sent to limbo on Day 5. Later that day, it was revealed Jacob had chosen to walk from the game. Following his decision to leave the game, it was revealed he had previously done work in the porn industry.\n\nJeffrey Marx is a 35-year-old receptionist from Brooklyn, New York. Jeffrey is openly gay, a fact which caused several arguments with fellow contestant Andrea over whether gay marriage should be legal or not. Jeffrey had a close friendship with Erica while in the house. He elected to be Team Captain on Day 2, though his team later won the competition. In the sixth week, Jeffrey asked to be sent to limbo, in order to be exempt from being Team Captain the following week. He was then sent to limbo with Mike in a unanimous seven to zero vote, and later returned. In Week 8, Jeffrey was a Team Captain, though he later won the team competition and saved himself for the week. He came in 4th place overall.\n\nJoy Glass is a 27-year-old nurse from Fredericksburg, Virginia. Joy admitted to posing nude for Playboy six times before entering the house. While in the house, Joy had a romantic relationship with fellow contestant Gene. She had frequent arguments with Mike while in the house, after he accused her of playing Gene to advance in the game. After being chosen as team captain, her team lost and she was sent into limbo with Andrea. Joy was eliminated on Day 51. After her elimination, she was put into a poll with Mike to see who the fans would like to see back into the house, possibly stating whoever gets the most votes will return to the house. She ultimately lost to Mike, who returned to the game.\n\nKevin Braun is a 33-year-old police sergeant from Toledo, Ohio. While in the house, Kevin had a strong friendship with Mike. Kevin also had a somewhat romantic relationship with Erica, with the two drunkenly sharing a kiss. Erica later expressed that she had feelings for him, though he did not reciprocate them. In the fourth week, Kevin was voted into limbo by his fellow contestants, though he later returned. He came in 1st place and won the 250,000 dollars.\n\nMike McCarthy is a 48-year-old DJ from Pembroke, Massachusetts. While in the house, he had a close friendship with Kevin. He had frequent arguments with Joy while in the house, and later accused her of using Gene to advance further in the game. In the sixth week, viewers voted Mike as the \"bully\" of the house when giving out high school persona's. He was Team Captain in the fifth week, but won the team challenge for the week. He was Team Captain again the following week, and was later sent to limbo. He was eliminated on Day 44. After his elimination, he was put into a poll with recently eliminated Joy to see who the fans would like to see back into the house, possibly stating whoever gets the most votes will return to the house. On Day 51, he returned to the house officially. He was eliminated in the 10th week, when he received less votes than Erica to stay. He ended in 5th place.\n\nRobin Ann is a 43-year-old sex blogger from Washington, DC. Robin was frequently referred to as \"Aunt Robin\" while in the house, though as her behavior changed, she was referred to as \"Crazy Aunt Robin\". Joy and Stephanie later found that Robin had written quotes in the inside of her jeans, and they suspected she had planted the jeans for the others to find. She was sent to limbo during the third week, after viewers voted her as a Team Captain. She was eliminated on Day 23, with Erica receiving more votes to stay.\n\nStephanie Link is a 32-year-old scientist from Boston, Massachusetts. Early on in the show, Stephanie revealed her previous husband had died. Stephanie had a close friendship with Erica, Joy, and Jeffrey while in the house. She was Team Captain in both the sixth and seventh week in the house, but won the team challenge both times. On Day 53, Stephanie chose to walk from the game after the contestants were offered a cash prize to quit. Mike, a previously eliminated contestant, returned to the game in her place.\n"}
{"id": "14793819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14793819", "title": "List of religious leaders convicted of crimes", "text": "List of religious leaders convicted of crimes\n\nThis is a list of religious leaders who have been convicted of serious crimes before, during or after their period as a religious leader.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21356027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21356027", "title": "Margaret Skinnider", "text": "Margaret Skinnider\n\nMargaret Skinnider (28 May 1892 – 10 October 1971) was a revolutionary and feminist born in Coatbridge, Scotland. She fought during the 1916 Easter Rising in Dublin as a sniper, among other roles, and was the only female wounded in the action. She was mentioned three times for bravery in the dispatches sent to the Dublin GPO. Sadhbh Walsche in \"The New York Times\" refers to her as \"the schoolteacher turned sniper.\"\n\nSkinnider was born in 1893 to Irish parents in the Lanarkshire town of Coatbridge. She trained as a mathematics teacher and joined Cumann na mBan in Glasgow, she was also involved in the women's suffrage movement. Ironically she had learned to shoot in a rifle club which had originally been set up so that women could help in defence of the British Empire. During her trips to Ireland Skinnider came under the influence of Constance Markievicz and became active in smuggling detonators and bomb-making equipment into Dublin (in her hat) in preparation for the 1916 Easter Rising. She along with Madeleine ffrench-Mullen spent time in the hills around Dublin testing dynamite.\n\nWhen Skinnider was shown \"the poorest part of Dublin\" by Constance Markievicz, she wrote; \"I do not believe there is a worse place in the world.\" The street was \"a hollow full of sewage and refuse\", and the building \"as full of holes as if it had been under shellfire\".\n\nOperating variously as a scout, message runner (often dressed as a boy) and sniper Skinnider\ntook part in action against the British Army at the Garrison at the College of Surgeons and St. Stephen's Green under\nthe Command of General Michael Mallin and Constance Markievicz. Skinnider was reportedly an excellent markswoman. She was seriously wounded when she was shot three times attempting to burn down houses on Harcourt Street to try to cut off the retreat of British soldiers who had planted a machine gun post on the roof of the University Church.\n\nNora Connolly O'Brien describes Skinnider's leading role in this action;\n\nIn her autobiography \"Doing my bit for Ireland\" (New York – Century, 1917) Skinnider herself vividly describes her role as a sniper at St. Stephen's Green in the Easter Rising:\n\nIn terms of her role as a woman taking part in military action Skinnider comments:\n\nThe current president of Sinn Féin, Gerry Adams, quoted Skinnider's stirring words in his 2006 address to the Sinn Féin Ard Feis.\n\nInitially imprisoned and seriously injured, Skinnider spent several weeks in hospital before she contrived to escape whilst awaiting medical treatment and obtained a travel permit from Dublin Castle to enable her to return to her native Scotland.\n\nSkinnider returned to Dublin later that year before fleeing to the United States in fear of internment. Whilst in America, she collected funds for the republican cause and lectured with other women who had fought in the Easter Rising. Skinnider also wrote and published her autobiography in New York – \"Doing my Bit for Ireland\". Skinnider later returned to Ireland and took up a teaching post in Dublin in 1917. During the War of Independence she was arrested and imprisoned. In the civil war she became Paymaster General of the Irish Republican Army until she was arrested in 1923 and held at North Dublin Union. There she became Director of Training for the prisoners. (James Connolly's daughter Nora took over her role)\n\nAfter her release from prison, she worked as a teacher at Kings Inn Street Sisters of Charity Primary School in Dublin until her retirement in 1961. She was a member of the Irish National Teachers' Organisation (INTO) throughout her teaching career. She became its President in 1956. During her tenure she represented Ireland at the World Conference of the Organisation of the Teaching Professions in Manila, Philippines. She fought in particular for the rights of women – this agitation resulted in the introduction of common incremental salary sales for women and single men in 1949. She sat on the Committee that advised on the 50th anniversary commemorations of the 1916 rising. She lived her last years in Glenageary, County Dublin. She died on 10 October 1971 and was buried next to Countess Markievicz in the Republican plot in Glasnevin Cemetery, Dublin.\n\n"}
{"id": "756514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756514", "title": "Miloš Obrenović", "text": "Miloš Obrenović\n\nMiloš Obrenović (; ; 18 March 1780 – 26 September 1860) born Miloš Teodorović (Милош Теодоровић) was Prince of Serbia from 1815 to 1839, and again from 1858 to 1860. He participated in the First Serbian Uprising, led Serbs in the Second Serbian Uprising, and founded the House of Obrenović. Under his rule, Serbia became an autonomous principality within the Ottoman Empire. Prince Miloš ruled autocratically, permanently refusing to share power. During his rule, he was the richest man in Serbia and one of the richest in the Balkans.\n\nMiloš Teodorović () was the son of Teodor \"Teša\" Mihailović (died 1802) from Dobrinja, and Višnja (died 18 June 1817). This was the second marriage of his mother Višnja, from which also sprung Jovan (1787–1850) and Jevrem (1790–1856). From Višnja's first marriage, with Obren Martinović (died 1780) from Brusnica, Miloš had half-brothers Jakov (died 1811) and Milan (died 1810), and half-sister Stana. After the death of Obren, Višnja moved from Brusnica and married Teodor in Dobrinja. After the death of his brother Milan, a famed revolutionary with great reputation among the people, Miloš adopted the surname Obrenović. In official documents, his name was sometimes written Miloš Teodorović Obrenović.\n\nMiloš fought in the First Serbian Uprising until its very end in 1813. His half-brother Milan also took part in the Uprising, rising to become the \"vojvoda\" (commander, duke) of the Rudnik district, until his death in 1810. After Milan's death, Miloš adopted the surname of his half-brother, Obrenović. This name was the patronymic which his half-brother derived from Obren, the first name of his own father (Miloš's step-father). After the rebellion collapsed, Miloš was among the few of its leaders that remained in Serbia to face the returning Ottomans.\n\nIn April 1815, Prince Miloš organized and led the Second Serbian Uprising. After defeating the Turks, and Napoleon's defeat in Russia, the Turks agreed to the terms of the agreement from 1815. After the killing of Karađorđe Petrović, in 1817, Obrenović became the leader of the Serbs. As a result of the agreement, Serbia gained some autonomy, but remained under Ottoman sovereignty. Miloš Obrenović was left in power as its absolute ruler.\n\nBetween the end of 1828 and the autumn of 1830, Prince Miloš created a so-called \"legislative commission\" to translate the Code Napoléon into Serbian and codify the laws and customs of the country. After discussing the commission, Miloš invited two distinguished legal specialists to come from Hungary to prepare a more suitable criminal and civil code of laws for Serbia. They were Vasilije Lazarević, \"Bürgermeister\" (mayor) of Zemun, and Jovan Hadžić, lawyer, poet, and member of the municipal senate of Novi Sad.\n\nIn January 1831, Prince Miloš informed a great national assembly that he had obtained an imperial edict from the Sultan ending all direct obligations of Serbian peasants to their former Turkish lords, guaranteeing Ottoman recognition of Serbian autonomy in most matters of internal administration, and offering Serbia the prospect of territorial aggrandizement, as well as the express right to institute schools, courts, and a governmental administration of her own. The Sultan's decrees of 1830 and 1833 expanded the same rights to a larger territory, and made Serbia a sovereign principality, with Miloš Obrenović as hereditary prince. A Metropolitanate of Serbia was established in Belgrade as an autonomous unit of the Patriarchate of Constantinople. Russia's status as the guarantor of Serbia's autonomy was also recognized.\n\nThe supporters of the rule of law often rebelled against Miloš's government. Following one such rebellion, he agreed to adopt a constitution, the \"Sretenje\" or Candlemas constitution, in 1835. The move was opposed by neighboring Austria, the ruling Ottoman Empire and Russia. It is believed that the three great empires saw the constitution as a danger to their own autocratic systems of government. Metternich's Austria particularly ridiculed the fact that Serbia had its own flag and foreign ministry. Miloš abolished the constitution at the demand of Russia and Turkey, and it was replaced by the \"Turkish\" Constitution of 1838.\n\nMiloš abdicated in 1839 in favor of his sons—Milan, who died a few weeks later, and Mihailo, who then became prince. Mihailo was deposed in 1842, and the family was out of power until 1858, when it returned with Miloš restored as prince for the last two years of his life.\n\nMiloš Obrenović was given the epithet \"the Great\". He was proclaimed \"Father of the Fatherland\" by the National Assembly.\n\n\nIn 1805, Miloš married Ljubica Vukomanović (September 1785 – Vienna, 26 May 1843). The couple had eight children whose names are known. It is speculated that Ljubica had other pregnancies that resulted in miscarriages, stillbirths, or children who died shortly after birth, with some sources giving a number as high as 17 pregnancies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56798286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56798286", "title": "Mireille Miller-Young", "text": "Mireille Miller-Young\n\nMireille Miller-Young is a feminist and an associate professor of feminist studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Her research explores race, gender, and sexuality in visual culture and sex industries in the United States.\nMiller-Young holds a PhD in American History from New York University.\nShe describes herself as an \"academic pornographer\", a term originally adopted by Sander Gilman.\n\nMiller-Young is currently working on a documentary film on black women in the porn industry.\n\nMiller-Young's 2004 PhD dissertation examines the history of black women in pornography with ethnographic methods. Called \"A Taste for Brown Sugar: The History of Black Women in American Pornography\", the dissertation was hailed as \"pioneering\"\nand was published as a book in 2014.\nReviewers have described the book as \"masterful\"\nand lauded its \"rigorous scholarship\".\nIt has been described as \"a remarkable text that applies critical race studies, feminist studies, sexuality studies, and film studies to Black women in pornography\" and as a \"must read\" that is \"deftly building\" on the work of feminist scholars such as Angela Davis, Saidiya Hartman, and Celine Parrenas Shimizu.\nIt won National Women's Studies Association and American Studies Association book awards in 2015.\n\nMiller-Young became known to a wider audience in 2014 when she accosted a pair of teenage anti-abortion activists on campus, stealing and later destroying one of their signs. In her interview with police, Miller-Young said she felt \"triggered\" by the sign and had a \"moral right\" to remove the material from sight.\nMiller-Young was charged with grand theft, battery, and vandalism. She pleaded no contest and was sentenced to 108 hours of community service and three years of probation. She was also ordered to pay restitution and attend anger management classes.\n\nThe case attracted widespread attention and precipitated think pieces from all over the political spectrum.\nThe UCSB Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs, Michael Young, published a letter on the incident that was interpreted as a rebuke to both sides involved in the altercation.\nMore than 30 professors from universities across the nation signed a letter of support for Miller-Young, describing her as a \"gentle, brilliant mentor\" who was a \"victim of the cultural legacy of slavery\"; she \"fell victim to the graphic nature of the anti-abortion display [because] she [was] pregnant\".\nA column in the Los Angeles Times called Miller-Young a \"sucker\" who had walked into an obvious trap.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10523144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10523144", "title": "Murder of Bobby Äikiä", "text": "Murder of Bobby Äikiä\n\nThe murder of Bobby Äikiä (12 March 1995 – 14 January 2006) occurred in Sweden, when Äikiä, a 10-year-old Swedish boy, was murdered by his mother and stepfather. He suffered from Fragile X syndrome. Äikiä was left to freeze after being tied to a chair and thrown out of his house by his stepfather Eddy Larsson. He was reported missing by his mother Niina Äikiä, who claimed he had disappeared after a visit to the Bäckebol shopping centre near Gothenburg. Soldiers from the Swedish Armed Forces searched for Äikiä, but when a body could not be found, suspicion turned towards his mother. Äikiä's body was found under the ice of a nearby lake following his mother's confession. Both parents were sentenced to ten years' imprisonment in June 2006 for involuntary manslaughter and mistreating a child. The murder and the following debate led to \"Lex Bobby\", a law that requires a child protection investigation when a child has died as a result of violence.\n\nIn February 2008, Niina Äikiä received 54,000 kronor in compensation after being attacked and cut in the face inside the prison.\n"}
{"id": "1444069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1444069", "title": "Nancy Hopkins (aviator)", "text": "Nancy Hopkins (aviator)\n\nNancy Hopkins Tier (May 16, 1909 – January 15, 1997) was an aviator. She was the president of the International Women's Air and Space Museum and a member of United Flying Octogenarians.\n\nShe was born as Nancy Hopkins on May 16, 1909 in Washington, D.C.. Her father was Alfred Francis Hopkins I (1879–1955) who was born in Wayne, Pennsylvania and worked as an antique salesman. Alfred was said to be related to the Hopkins family that started Johns Hopkins University; Alfred's father was from Maryland, and his mother from Maine. Nancy's mother was Anne DeWolf Gibson (1877–1963). Nancy had a brother, Alfred Francis Hopkins II (1914–1988), an illustrator, and two sisters, Frances and Betty. She was a niece of Lady Nancy Astor and her uncle, Charles Dana Gibson (1867–1944), was the creator of the Gibson Girl.\n\nIn November 1927 she had her first flight from Hoover Field in Arlington, Virginia, and in 1929 she received limited commercial license #5889 at Roosevelt Field in New York. In 1930 she listed her occupation as \"aviation air pilot\". That same year her father was working as an \"antique salesman\" and her mother was not listed as living in the household.\n\nIn 1930 she entered the Women's Dixie Derby, 2,000 mile air race from Washington, District of Columbia to Chicago, Illinois. She flew her Viking Kitty Hawk B4 biplane, NC30V. That same year she was one of four women in the 5,000-mile Ford National Reliability Air Tour, and the only woman pilot.\n\nShe married Irving Vanderroest Tier (1902–1978) on February 24, 1931 in Connecticut.\n\nOn a ride during the winter of 1931 her plane was in a flat spin and would have crashed. She climbed out of the cockpit preparing to parachute but her weight on the wing tilted the aircraft enough to take her out of the spin. She climbed back into the cockpit and regained control at 200 feet. This got her a job at Viking as a spokeswoman. In 1931 she also received her transport license.\n\nShe joined the Connecticut Civil Air Patrol in 1942 and rose to the rank of Colonel.\n\nShe died in Sharon, Connecticut on January 15, 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13246290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13246290", "title": "Nhial Deng Nhial", "text": "Nhial Deng Nhial\n\nLieutenant General Nhial Deng Nhial is a South Sudanese politician and a member of the ruling Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM). He was appointed the Minister of Foreign Affairs on 26 August 2011 after having served as the caretaker Minister of Defense since 10 July 2011. Prior to that he served as the pre-independence South Sudanese Minister of SPLA and Veteran Affairs, from 22 December 2008 until 9 July 2011.\n\nNhial Deng is a Dinka from the Bahr el Ghazal region of Southern Sudan. He is the son of the famous late leader William Deng Nhial who was assassinated in 1968 before the Addis Ababa Agreement was signed between Sudan and South Sudan in Ethiopia, in 1972. William Deng Nhial was as thoughtful as John Garang was. His son Nhial Deng Nhial did not join the movement as a member of an average Southern Sudanese family, he came from a home of a politician and was familiar with the grief of losing his father when he was young. He is a man of honor and he has committed his life to the liberation of South Sudan as a member of the Sudan People's Liberation Movement and of the Sudan People's Liberation Army. Nhial joined the SPLA right after its inception in 1983. He was closely associated with the drafting and negotiation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement between the Republic of Sudan and South Sudan, which was signed in Naivasha, Kenya, in January 2005.\n\nNhial Deng Nhial completed his early education at Comboni College in Khartoum, Sudan. He then entered the University of Khartoum to study law. He graduated in the early 1980s with the degree of Bachelor of Laws (LLB), and earned a Doctor of Laws is a doctoral degree in law(JD) degree from the University of Dundee in the UK in 2008. He is fluent in both English and Arabic. There are South Sudanese media reports, yet unconfirmed, that following the conclusion of the Naivasha Agreement, Nhial Deng Nhial was slated to become the Sudanese Foreign Minister in the \"Government of National Unity\". However following the death of Dr. John Garang in a plane crash in July 2005, Mr. Nhial refused entreaties to serve in Khartoum and opted to work in the nascent Government of Southern Sudan (GOSS).\n\nNhial Deng Nhial was appointed Minister of Regional Affairs in the Southern Sudanese cabinet in 2005 by President Salva Kiir. He however abruptly resigned from the cabinet less that six month later. There has been speculation as to what led to that resignation, with no clear reason being fronted.\n\nIn 2004, rumors soared across Southern Sudan that John Garang was planning to dismiss Salva Kiir as his deputy and replace him with Nhial Deng Nhial. However, at a meeting of SPLA top brass held in Rumbek, in December 2004, one month before the signing of the CPA, Dr. Garang made it clear that those speculations were just that; only speculations, without any basis for truth.\n\nIn December 2008, Nhial Deng Nhial was appointed \"Minister of SPLA and Veterans Affairs\" by the then President of Southern Sudan, Salva Kiir, replacing General Dominic Dim Deng who died in a plane crash on 2 May 2008. He returned to the South Sudanese cabinet with the military rank of Lieutenant General in the SPLA. Following the independence of South Sudan on 9 July 2011, Nhial Deng Nhial was appointed Caretaker Minister of Defense of the Republic of South Sudan. On 26 August 2011, President Salva Kiir Mayardit unveiled his long-awaited cabinet with Mr. Nhial Deng Nhial appointed as the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the Republic of South Sudan.\n\nHe is a member of the SPLM's highest organ, the Political Bureau, and served as the leader of the SPLM delegation in Naivasha peace talks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273610", "title": "Phillip Spaulding", "text": "Phillip Spaulding\n\nPhillip Granville Spaulding is a fictional character from the CBS soap opera \"Guiding Light\", portrayed by Grant Aleksander.\n\nThe character is the adopted son of business mogul, Alan Spaulding, and his first ex-wife, Elizabeth. Phillip has been portrayed by three different actors. Aleksander joined the cast in 1982 and left in 1984. From 1985 to 1986, John Bolger played the role of Phillip. Grant Aleksander then returned and played the role from 1986 to 1991. Five years later, in 1996, he returned, playing Phillip until November 2004, when the character of Phillip was shot onscreen and presumed to be dead.\n\nIn July 2005, Phillip was revealed to be alive (but not shown onscreen) when he was visited by Alan. In February 2009, the character of Phillip returned to Springfield, and remained on the canvas until the series finale on September 18, 2009. \n\nGrant Aleksander has been nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award four times throughout his tenure on the show. In 1998, he was nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actor and in 2003, 2004 and 2005, Aleksander was nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor.\n\nSeven-year-old Phillip Spaulding’s world would change forever in 1977 when his mother befriended Jackie Marler; only he wouldn't know it yet. The son of wealthy Alan Spaulding and Elizabeth Granville, Phillip had his every wish catered to and was exceptionally close to his mother. While his parents were going through a nasty divorce in 1978, Phillip was having chest pains and started receiving treatment from Dr. Justin Marler, Jackie's ex-husband. Phillip bonded with Justin and after his parents divorced, he encouraged his mother to marry Justin in 1979. At about the same time, Alan married Jackie. Phillip was content to have Justin and Jackie as stepparents and became close to both. However, in 1980, Justin and Jackie would divorce their prospective spouses and find love again with each other. In 1981, Elizabeth would unexpectedly leave Springfield for Switzerland and left Phillip in the care of the Marlers. Though confused as to why his mother left and why he was living with his \"Aunt Jackie\" and \"Uncle Justin\" instead of his father, Alan, Phillip accepted the situation and soon left Springfield to attend Lincoln Prep School. Late that year, while Phillip was on Christmas break from Lincoln Prep, he finally apologized to Mike Bauer about his treatment of Mike during the time Mike and Elizabeth were lovers.\n\nThrown out of Lincoln Prep School at 17 (SORAS), Phillip returned to Springfield in 1982 to attend Springfield High. He and Freddie [later calling himself Rick] Bauer became best friends when Phillip covered for Freddie after Freddie, who was driving with Phillip in his car, was pulled over for speeding and didn't have his driver's license. By this time, Jackie had died in a plane crash and Justin was seeing an Italian woman named Helena Manzini, a relationship Phillip disapproved of because he felt it was too soon after Jackie's death. Meanwhile, Phillip was hanging out with a rough crowd. When Phillip and Freddie were nearly involved in an accident, they realized perhaps the crowd they were hanging out with really weren't their friends and they stopped associating with them. Not long afterwards, Phillip met his first love, Melinda \"Mindy\" Sue Lewis, who in 1983, out of insecurity, staged a rather dramatic accident while riding her horse and was consequently hospitalized. During his visits to Mindy in the hospital, he developed a strong attraction to her roommate, Beth Raines.\n\nBoth Phillip and Rick were attracted to Beth, but Phillip backed off and continued to endure Mindy's spoiled behavior in deference to Rick's attraction to Beth. At the senior prom Rick and Beth went together, as did Mindy and Phillip but it was Phillip and Beth who were named King and Queen. Finally on the night of Mindy's 18th birthday party at the Country Club, Phillip and Beth finally confessed their true feelings for each other in the stables. However, Beth's stepfather Bradley found them and shocked Phillip by telling him the truth about his parentage: Alan and Elizabeth weren't his real parents; the Marlers were. Apparently, Alan felt his wife was too fragile to handle the fact their baby was stillborn and he bought the child Jackie was giving up. After Phillip learned the truth, he was not only furious at Justin and Alan, but also at Mindy and Rick, who both knew the truth before he did and didn't tell him. Angry and hurt, Phillip told Rick he was in love with Beth. Though he had initially rejected both his fathers, Phillip, upon learning Justin was flying out of town, tracked him down at the airport and not only forgave him for keeping his parentage a secret, but also gave his blessing for Justin and Helena to marry.\n\nIt was at this point Beth was raped by Bradley. Ashamed of what happened, she told no one and rejected Phillip. Phillip turned to Mindy for comfort and she seduced him without using birth control. Alan was also relieved to see Phillip and Beth growing apart since as far as he was concerned Beth was from a lower class and didn't deserve his son. Beth soon moved into the boarding house to try to get away from Bradley, but he got a court order and forced her to return home. When Beth returned home, Phillip was waiting, and they jumped out of a window and ran away to New York. After they had been running for a while they found themselves near Central Park and nearly out of money, Beth was working on some artistic sketches when both came upon a sidewalk Santa Claus (who preferred to be called Nick) who asked if they needed help. Though Phillip rudely tried to decline, Beth told the man they were nearly broke and had nowhere to stay and perhaps could not afford a hotel. Nick being the Good Samaritan he was, took pity on the young teenage couple and urged them to follow him through Central Park. Nick had led them to a place where he had led many people who were lost and homeless or poor or down on their luck. Nick turned them over to the others staying there and asked them to watch over Beth and Phillip. Eventually with Nick (Santa’s) help, Beth told Phillip about the rape. Phillip promised to protect her and they pledged to never let anything come between them again. Meanwhile, Mindy and Rick had raced to New York to find the pair and the four friends took odd jobs in order to survive and they enjoyed the sights and sounds of New York. Eventually, in January 1984, Bradley tracked them down and in order to evade him they dressed up as clowns and engaged in a mime act in the park. Bradley saw through their disguise and got in a violent struggle with Phillip in Central Park that ended when Bradley almost fell off a cliff. Beth and Phillip saved him though and warned him to back off. With Bradley apparently no longer a threat, Phillip and Beth returned to Springfield.\n\nBack in Springfield, Alan hired Bradley with the intent of transferring him out of town in order to separate Phillip and Beth. Meanwhile, Phillip’s Aunt Alex discovered Alan's schemes and revealed it to Phillip. Alex had become extremely protective of Phillip and Beth and when she found out about the rape, she made sure Bradley was arrested. At this time, Beth began to tutor Lujack, the leader of a street gang named the Galahads. Beth hoped this would help Lujack separate himself from his gang. But Darcy, Lujack's jealous girlfriend, had other ideas. Phillip was jealous but he and Beth still planned to marry. At the same time, Mindy was pregnant and told everyone Rick was the father. Then the day of Beth's wedding, Mindy's father, Billy, went to the church where Beth and Phillip were about to be married and confronted Mindy. He wanted to know if it was true the father of her baby was really Phillip. Beth overheard everything and at the altar she slapped Phillip and called off the wedding. Phillip wanted to be part of the baby's life. Mindy agreed but only if Phillip married her. Phillip married Mindy and they spent their honeymoon at Cross Creek. However the pair divorced after Mindy miscarried.\n\nOnce again, Phillip focused his attention on Beth, who by now was in love with Lujack. Feeling very rejected and angry, Phillip then discovered Lujack and Floyd Parker were turning the Galahads old garage into a night club. Phillip hired a crooked tradesman named Andy Ferris to sabotage the construction of the club but Andy went too far, and when the building blew up Beth was injured and blinded. Phillip felt very guilty but he could not bring himself to admit his wrongdoing so he enrolled Beth in a school for the blind. However, India von Halkein learned of the nightclub incident and threatened to tell Beth, thereby blackmailing her way into becoming his second wife. Phillip complied with India's demand but refused to consummate the union. However, when India started to notice Phillip and Beth renewing their friendship, she told Beth how Phillip had caused her blindness. Beth angrily rejected Phillip, but didn't tell Lujack the reason because she did not want to cause any more bad blood between them. At Lujack and Beth's engagement party in February 1985, Phillip, having grown to appreciate India's tenacity and wanting to gain control of Spaulding, announced India was pregnant (untrue, Phillip lied). Meanwhile, Lujack brought Andy to the party to play the blackmail tape and expose Phillip as the one who caused the accident. A scuffle over the tape occurred and Andy was shot and killed, and the tape was stolen. A lengthy murder mystery ensued with Lujack being erroneously convicted. By this time Phillip and India had consummated their marriage and India had faked a pregnancy test to make Phillip believe she was actually pregnant with his child. With the demands of the trial out of the way and Alex more determined than ever to run her out of town, India was more desperate than ever to cement her bond with Phillip. Conveniently an old family friend, Dr. Lyon, came visiting, and India employed the services of his never-fail love potion (sort of a gypsy version of Viagra). India began to mega-dose Phillip with the potion in hopes of making their previous baby announcement come true. But before India's desires came true, Phillip became ill from the potion and India was exposed for drugging Phillip. Eventually Beth convinced Phillip to come clean about his deal with Andy and they became friends again. Ironically the police didn't believe Phillip's story but by now plenty of people shared the suspicion India had murdered Andy. In the end, the real culprit turned out to be Floyd, who was holding India in a cabin where he forced her to sign a false confession. Luckily, Lujack and Beth eventually tracked them down and Floyd went to jail. Feeling a great deal of compassion for India, Phillip discovered they really did have a lot in common and agreed to remain married.\n\nStill jealous of Phillip's relationship with Beth and mistakenly believing that Phillip was ready to end their marriage, India began an affair with Simon Hall and when Phillip caught them kissing in early 1986, he quickly divorced India. After Phillip wrote a novel based on his and Beth's love, he and Beth found their way back to one another since Lujack was by now deceased. The couple's lives would be forever changed when Beth began working at a local museum for a Professor Blackburn, who had gotten his hands on the cornerstone of the Von Halkein estate in Andorra. India knew it contained gold and tried to steal it back from him. But the Professor protected the cornerstone until his death. He knocked India unconscious, shot Phillip, and held Beth hostage on a boat in Stony Lake. Some time later Blackburn's dead body turned up, Beth's shoe and some fabric from her dress were found but she was nowhere to be found. Phillip was devastated and vowed to find her, but Alan fabricated some evidence to make it look like Beth was really dead.\n\nIn 1987, Phillip had a relationship with his assistant Chelsea Reardon and they investigated the black art scene. During their investigation, Chelsea learned Alan was also involved in the black art market but only told her sister, Maureen about this since she feared bad blood between father and son. Though Alan secretly burnt down Phillip's house to stop the investigation, Phillip finally learned about it. When Chelsea and Jackson Freemont discovered Warren Andrews killed the head of the black art market, Paul Valère, Warren kidnapped them and Alan, but luckily Phillip saved them and Warren was arrested. Though Phillip was shot by Warren's hit man and left in critical condition, he survived with Rick's help. Chelsea then quit as Phillip's assistant and began to work for Alan at Spaulding while she and Phillip remained as lovers. There was just one problem. Phillip was still obsessed with the love of his life, the late Beth, and that made Chelsea frustrated. At this time, Jackson, noticing Chelsea's singing talent, became her business manager and began to vie with Phillip for her affections. When Chelsea realized they were fighting an old rivalry for Beth rather than a rivalry for her, she lost interest in both men. Phillip wrote her a letter telling her his true feelings for her, but Jackson intercepted it. When Chelsea found out about the letter, she and Phillip got back together and when Phillip forgave Chelsea for her affair with a married man in New York years ago they became engaged However, at this time Phillip was obsessed with wresting power away from Alan and sought the help of Alexandra and the Lewis's to help him. Finally, in 1988, when Chelsea (who wanted Phillip to reconcile with his father) found out about Phillip's plans to wrest control of Spaulding from Alan, she tried to warn Alan, and Phillip locked her up in the Towers. Disgusted, Chelsea bitterly broke up with Phillip.\n\nNot long after, Phillip had an affair with Rick's girlfriend, Meredith Reade after the couple had broken up. Distraught, Phillip agreed not to tell Rick about it and was genuinely relieved when the couple patched things up and got married. Later Meredith found herself pregnant and although Rick knew he wasn't the father, agreed to raise the child as his own without knowing whom the father was. Along came Blake Lindsey, Phillip’s PR-agent at Spaulding. Phillip fell in love with her but didn't know Blake was actually paid by Alan to spy on him. After Alex revealed Blake's schemes and her true identity as the daughter of presumed dead Roger Thorpe, Phillip bitterly left Blake but, later, he forgave her and the couple reconciled. Then tragedy struck in April 1989, when during the delivery of Meredith’s baby, Rick was forced to choose between Meredith’s life and that of the unborn child. Rick chose Meredith. Later, Rick learned from a letter from Alan that Phillip was the father. Though Phillip tried to explain it happened before the couple had married and after they had had temporarily broken up, Rick still felt betrayed and it took him a long time to forgive Phillip. Prior to Phillip and Blake's wedding, a series of accidents started occurring. The trouble came to a climax at their wedding when gunfire rang out and Phillip was shot! It was then that the truth came out: Alan was behind the accidents in order to keep Blake from marrying Phillip and accidentally shot Phillip after having a struggle with a very much alive Roger. While Roger was exposed to everyone, Alan wasn't exposed immediately as the shooter. Roger was first suspected but finally convinced Ross, Phillip and Alan-Michael of Alan's crimes so the three decided to trick Alan into walking again. While Alex was in Europe, Roger appeared into the Spaulding mansion and appeared to shoot Phillip and Alan-Michael. Shocked, Alan stood up from his wheelchair, was exposed of all crimes and went to jail. Immediately after his arrest Alan told Phillip he'd forged Beth's death certificate: there was no proof Beth was dead.\n\nThough Phillip tried to reassure Blake he was over Beth, he became convinced she was alive. Not long after, a man arrived in town claiming to have kidnapped Beth and demanded a $1 million ransom. Hoping it was true, Phillip paid the money only to learn he'd been lied to by Dana Jones and her lover, Bruce Daly. At this time Bradley was released from prison. Learning the plot, he confronted Dana's lover and was knocked unconscious. Though Phillip suspected Bradley of swindling him first, he later learned the truth. Though Daly was caught, he escaped, and the money (unknowingly pocketed by Roger) was never recovered. Meanwhile, Phillip was becoming obsessed with finding Beth. Unbeknownst to Phillip, Blake discovered an amnesiac and mute Beth was living with Spaulding employee Neil Everest just outside town. Fearing Phillip would leave her for Beth, when Blake learned Phillip had Beth's grave exhumed, she had him committed in the Willow Hills mental institution for his \"delusions\" about Beth. For Phillip, he seemed to prove Blake right when he reacted violently towards her. Both Gary Swanson and Neil were please with this development: Gary because Blake now had Phillip's power of attorney, and Neil, because the field was clear for him to marry Beth. Of course as with any plans devious, Blake's attempt to take over Phillip's life was about to hit major snags and fall apart and Neil contributed to it.\n\nWhile Blake had Phillip committed for having defied a court order to exhume Beth Raines's grave, Neil decided to tell Beth about her past and accompanied her to Lillian's house. But, Beth, seeing her childhood home and remembering Bradley refused to go in and then ran away when she saw Bradley. Beth ran away to Clayton where the Willow Hills Sanitarium was and with her aphasia checked herself her into the sanitarium! Eventually, Phillip ended up seeing Beth, as did Lillian and Rick. Later, Blake tried to keep Phillip in Willow Hills, but Rick and Lillian told the court that Phillip was as sane as they were and he was released. But Blake still had his power of attorney. That was until Blake did one more really stupid thing in her plan to retain control. Phillip had the Spaulding mansion phones wired to monitor every call Blake took. Blake took a call from Neil about the upcoming marriage of him and Beth at the courthouse and Blake lied to Phillip saying the phone call was not from Neil! On Christmas Eve, Neil and Beth were about to marry, at the courthouse, with Blake in attendance, when Phillip and Rick on to Blake's plan crashed the ceremony and whisked Beth away! Although Beth tried to explain otherwise, Phillip was convinced Neil had been involved in Beth's kidnapping and fired him from Spaulding Enterprises. Phillip also found out Neil was suspected of causing the death of his wife and stepchildren in Pittsburgh, when the building they were in Neil had helped build collapsed. He also accused Neil of raping Beth! Neil's cause was not helped when WSPR-TV talk show host, Johnny Bauer accused Neil, over the holiday season, of being the mysterious person buying up property along Fifth Street for dubious ends. Determined to prove his innocence, on January 11, 1990, Neil helped Beth relive her kidnapping at the hands of Professor Blackburn. Beth recalled killing Blackburn when he tried to attack her, and she realized her aphasia stemmed from her lack of guilt over his death. At this point, Phillip found Neil and Beth and when the men began fighting, Beth finally spoke, yelling at them to stop.\n\nAs the year continued, Neil's true past came to light when he was able to prove the collapse was due not to his design, but to the faulty materials Spaulding had purchased. Grateful to Neil for helping Beth, Phillip voted for him to be rehired. Anxious to have a future with Beth, Phillip ended his calamitous marriage to Blake. She convinced Gary to spy on Phillip and Beth for her, hoping to get evidence of Phillip's unfaithfulness. A devious Gary agreed, and then tried to score points with Phillip by telling him Blake was having an affair. Despite her extracurricular activities with both Gary and Alan-Michael, Blake vehemently refused when Beth asked her to give Phillip an amicable divorce. Phillip asked Beth to marry him anyway. Not wanting to rush into anything, Beth said no, but their feelings ran deep and on Valentine's Day they made love. Meanwhile, one day in March, when Blake and Gary were rummaging through Neil's trailer to find a way to force Beth to stay with Neil, Beth caught them and after having a major verbal fight with Blake over Blake destroying some of her art sketches, Beth collapsed. When Gary and Blake took Beth to Cedars, they were all shocked to learn from Rick that Beth was pregnant! Beth assumed the baby was Neil's and told Phillip, who suggested they pass the child off as his. Unaware the baby really was Phillip's, Beth decided to be honest with Neil, but Blake, who stole Beth's file from the doctor’s office, told Neil before Beth could.! A furious Neil refused to allow Phillip to raise his child. In April, Beth was ecstatic when Dr. Sedgwick showed her a sonogram revealing her child had been conceived in February 1990, and not in December 1989, which meant the child was Phillip's! In the meantime, trying to get back on Alan-Michael's good side, Blake agreed to give Phillip a divorce, no strings attached. However, things were about to get very bad for Phillip. The day he was to meet Neil, Neil knocked him out and left him to die. As Neil was leaving up the stairs, a double-crossing Gary confronted Neil and pushed down a flight of stairs into the garage. Blake showed up to see Gary and Neil fighting, and Gary convinced her Neil had to be subdued when he showed her the bomb Neil had set.\n\nAfter tying up Neil, Blake saw Phillip also unconscious and was sure Gary had knocked him out. Blake then tricked Gary and was able to tie him up next to Neil. Blake called Roger who set Gary free. Meanwhile, Neil mumbled “Phillip”, leading Roger to suspect that was who hit him. Roger tried and failed to defuse the bomb and Neil died in the explosion. With the audiotape of Neil murmuring \"Phillip\" as the one who knocked him out, Phillip's wallet being found in the wreckage of the garage, and threats Phillip had made against Neil's life, this was all enough to get Phillip arrested for Neil's murder. Trying to avoid prosecution and find out who the real murderer was, Phillip faked his own death, stealing a corpse (with Rick's help) in order to do so. Phillip fled to the island of Capria, near Mexico, and was shocked to meet India there. He promised India his Spaulding stock if she would keep quiet about his being alive and went to Springfield to discover what happened to Beth since she didn't follow him out of town. After trying to get Phillip's assets from Alan and Alex, India finally gave up and helped Phillip. When Phillip returned to town, he was shocked to discover that Beth and Rick had married to throw the police off track. After Phillip threatened Gary whom he suspected was Neil's murderer, Gary paid a killer to kill Phillip. The plan failed and finally Det. A.C. Mallet and Roger discovered Gary was Neil's accomplice and murderer. At the same time, Phillip revealed himself alive after the birth of his daughter, Lizzie. Though innocent, Phillip, Beth and Rick were sentenced to perform community service out of town for fraud. After marrying in February 1991, Phillip and Beth moved to Arizona with Lizzie to carry out their community service.\n\nOver the next few years, Phillip avoided any contact with the Spauldings when suddenly in April 1996, Alex called him to ask him to attend Alan-Michael's wedding to Lucy Cooper in Orlando, Florida. Although Phillip told Alex he wouldn't come, he indeed had plans to attend the wedding to Beth's dismay. Phillip arrived early and exposed himself to only Rick and told him he had plans to find the one who had cost him five years of his life. Phillip had found out someone else was involved in the incident which left him accused of Neil’s murder. Gary had asked Phillip to visit him in prison where he gave him note that he had once found in Neil's trailer, which proved Neil had been paid by an \"A. Spaulding\" to get Phillip's fingerprints on the bomb. Although Rick advised him to drop his investigation, Phillip refused. During the wedding ceremony, Phillip wore a mask and when Alan was about to make a toast, Phillip stopped him and unmasked himself to the shock of all of the guests. Though Amanda, Alan and Alan-Michael weren't happy to see him, Phillip decided to return to Springfield anyway. While conducting his investigation, Phillip then visited Beth in Arizona but she left him for good since he’d refused to drop his vendetta and return home. Meanwhile, Alan-Michael was trying to prevent Phillip's return to Spaulding and, to set him up, he pretended to make up with his brother and tried to send him to a fake business trip to California so that he could spread lies about Phillip to the board. Phillip didn't leave but arrived during a board meeting to see Alan-Michael's actions against him. Not long after, Amanda exposed Alan-Michael as \"A. Spaulding\" through a letter from Neil to him. After Phillip asked Alan to support him during his fight against Alan-Michael Alan collapsed due to intense pain in his back and was rushed to Cedars. While recovering in his bed, he confessed to the family he was actually \"A. Spaulding\" and had hired Neil to set Phillip up since he had been disappointed in Phillip.\n\nFurious, Phillip disowned Alan and later made up with Alan-Michael and made plans to move to New York. As for Alan, he was suffering from paralysis, and giving up, refused to attend physical therapy sessions. Although Phillip arranged for him to be transferred to a rehabilitation clinic, he could not be persuaded by Alan to stay in town.. However, Alan still would not admit the seriousness of his injury and refused to heed the doctor's warning he would have to relearn how to use his body. Phillip dropped by the clinic on his way out of town, where Alex tried to convince him of the seriousness of his father's injury. Though Phillip refused to visit Alan, he relented when Alex begged him to stay to see him. The doctor explained to Alan he had a long, arduous journey ahead of him. When Alex and Phillip entered his room, Alan ordered them to leave. Alex left, but Phillip stayed behind and when he saw how resistant Alan was to his physical therapy, Phillip told him how pathetic he was for giving up so easily and he still blamed him for ruining his life. Although Alan-Michael tried to convince Phillip to just leave town and write Alan off for good, Phillip found that he couldn't and remained, staying for a while at the Bauers. Not long after, Phillip was shocked to learn Rick was the father of one of Blake's babies! Although Phillip demanded Ross be told the truth, or else he'd do it, he found he couldn't hurt Ross like that and kept quiet. Meanwhile, Phillip's anger at Alan softened as he sympathized with Alan's physical condition. Knowing Alan was giving up on himself, Phillip and Alan-Michael concocted a plan with Roger and Amanda to make Alan think they were selling Alan’s company Advantage Systems to Roger with the hope Alan would get the urge to fight Roger and thus, get the urge to walk again. Their plan was a success. Meanwhile, after Lizzie had visited Phillip on Christmas, Phillip realized how much he missed Beth. It was too late because Lillian had given him divorce papers from Beth. At this time, Roger and Amanda plotted to take Spaulding over while the family tried to stop them. When Alan-Michael and Lucy left town, Phillip became president again.\n\nThat spring, Phillip was surprised to see his former sister-in-law, Harley Cooper at the Country Club masquerading as a woman named Starla. In the process of conducting the sting, Phillip and Harley started having feelings for one another which culminated into a kiss. Later, the pair left for New York to trap Jeffrey. Making it seem like \"Starla\" was going to get money from Phillip, the pair acted as though she was trying to seduce him, proving it by showing Jeffrey a surveillance tape of Phillip and Starla \"making love\". However, once the camera was shut off, the fake lovemaking became real as Phillip and Harley gave in to their passion. Later Phillip lied to Jeffrey stating he killed Harley during wild sex and when Jeffrey was ready to turn him to the police and to flee with Jenna, he was arrested for fraud when Harley and Jenna exposed him. Meanwhile, Harley and Phillip agreed to forget about happened that night and remain just friends. Then Harley and Jenna decided to join forces and began a detective agency. Their first assignment was to help Reva to find her long-lost sister. Not long after, Harley received a call from Mallet telling her he wanted a divorce since he was in love with another woman. Hurt and angry, Harley was consoled by Phillip. Meanwhile, Jenna and Harley learned Reva's nemesis, Annie Dutton, may have information on Reva's sister, and so they went to the mental hospital where Annie was staying. But when Security caught them snooping around, Jenna passed Harley off as her sister, Caitlin, and, to Harley's dismay, checked her into the mental institution. \"Caitlin\" then became Annie's roommate and apparently befriended her. Although Phillip tried to get Harley out of there, Harley was determined to follow through with the plan. Annie discovered who her new \"friend\" was and with help of the guards, drugged Harley with a psychotic drug. Luckily Phillip came to her rescue and admitted he too was falling in love with her.\n\nJust then, Beth returned to town with Lizzie determined to win Phillip. Anxious to get Phillip back, Beth used Lizzie by getting her hopes up and having her lie that she wanted to stay at home rather than go with Phillip for the night. That same evening, Lizzie held up the mistletoe for the pair to kiss; as Phillip leaned in to kiss Beth's cheek, Beth turned and kissed him passionately on the lips. Later, Beth warned Harley she wanted Phillip back, to which Harley responded that would never happen. While pining for Phillip, Beth became friends with attorney Ben Warren, who was far from reputable. When Phillip warned Beth about how unscrupulous Ben was, she told him to mind his own business. However, Ben soon realized Beth was just using him to make Phillip jealous and offered to help. Later, to make Phillip jealous, Beth faked receiving a phone call from Ben, and made New Year's plans with him. Phillip made it known that he didn't want Ben in his house, but Beth said she will go out somewhere with him anyway. She got herself into more trouble by deciding to stay in Springfield and accept a job. Harley, meanwhile, wasn't happy to see Beth either, especially since she was insecure over Phillip's feelings for Beth. Her fears compounded when Phillip expressed his displeasure at Beth's new friendship with Ben Warren. Although Phillip tried to assure Harley his heart belonged to her, Harley couldn't quite be sure. in 1998, Phillip proved his love for Harley by asking her to move in with him. Elated, Harley accepted the offer but was still disconcerted over the bond Phillip and Beth shared. When Beth thanked Harley for finding a lost Lizzie, she antagonized Harley by telling her to give Phillip some time to be with his family and continued to provoke her by mentioning the phone call she made to Mallet. Angry, Harley attacked Beth but was pulled off by Eleni. To Harley's relief, Phillip wasn't angry but instead understood.\n\nTheir relationship took a step back when Beth attempted suicide by throwing herself in front of a car. Guilt-ridden, Phillip offered to stay at the mansion to take care of a rattled Lizzie. After overhearing Lizzie ask Phillip not to make her take care of her mommy alone, Harley got suspicious and starting investigating Beth's past in Arizona. In the process she learned Beth had accidents before. She also discovered Beth had a boyfriend in Arizona named Carl. Harley decided to find him in order to ask him about Beth. Learning she was being investigated, Beth blasted Harley, who remained undeterred. Finally, Beth admitted to Harley about her abusive relationship with Carl but left insulted when Harley continued to interrogate her. Beth then told Phillip about Carl and Harley’s meddling before Harley got to tell him her side of it. When Harley finally got to Phillip, he knew the whole story and yelled at Harley for interfering and jumped to Beth’s defense. Not long after, Carl, upon learning Harley was asking about him, arrived in town threatening Harley to stay out of his business. Although Carl denied hurting Beth, Harley is soon able to trick him into admitting it. Later, she convinced Beth to help her arrest Carl. Using Beth as bait, the plan was for Harley to tape record Carl admitting his abusiveness. Harley, realizing she forgot her gun, left the scene before Carl got there. When she returned, Carl was dead and Beth was the prime suspect. During the investigation, Harley became unnerved at Phillip's attempts to protect Beth, even going as far as him suppressing evidence. Later, when Beth confessed to killing Carl in self-defense, both Harley and Phillip were unconvinced and investigated further. They soon discovered the true killer was Phillip's daughter, Lizzie! Worried about Lizzie, Harley left Phillip so that he could be with his daughter in her time of need. But Phillip wouldn't have it and convinced Harley he could be with her and be a part of his daughter's life at the same time. When Phillip proposed, Harley happily accepted and the couple made plans to marry, however when the wedding plans seemed to get out of hand, the couple decided to elope in New York. However, to their surprise, their elopement wasn't quite the secret they thought it was and they found Buzz and Phillip's Aunt Alex arranged a beautiful wedding for them at City Hall.\n\nTrouble began to brew again with the arrival of Harley's daughter Daisy, now called Susan, who was in search of her real mother now that her adoptive mother had died. In 1999, after telling Harley and Phillip her father had \"changed\" after her mother's death, Harley allowed Susan to stay the night at her place, to Phillip's disapproval. After calling Susan's father, Jim, Harley suggested they stay in Springfield for the holidays. Pleased to have a mother figure again, Susan was determined to fix Harley up with Jim and kept manipulating them to be alone together. Determined to stay in Springfield, Susan overdosed on medication. The plan worked with a guilt-ridden Harley wishing she could have seen the signs and suggesting that Susan should stay in town. However, Phillip disagreed and tried to encourage Harley to let go and allow Susan and Jim to go on with their lives. As Phillip and Harley continued to debate about Susan's presence in their lives, Harley learned she was pregnant. After learning of Harley's pregnancy, a hurt Susan left Springfield to live with Jim but later corresponded with Harley by phone. Later, Susan called Harley asking for help after she shoplifted a dress, telling her she was at a strange bus station outside Springfield. So, Harley has arrived at the bus station outside of Springfield to collect Susan. While there, a creepy man who had been eyeing Susan turned his attention to Harley. The two of them struggled, and Harley managed to kick him in the groin. Meanwhile, Jim arrived and flattened the perpetrator. When Phillip showed up, he and Jim argued about Harley's involvement in Susan's life with Jim complaining Susan was envious of the life Phillip and Harley lead. Phillip offered to solve the problem by moving the two of them to Springfield and gave Jim a job at Spaulding. Harley was forced to mediate between Phillip and Jim who did not get along with Jim even ended up quitting Spaulding to work at Lewis Construction. However, Phillip continued to grate on Jim, and when Jim threatened to leave town, Harley convinced Phillip to give him a reason to stay. So, to please Harley, Phillip bribed Jim to stay (although by now Jim was dating Beth so he was already planning on staying anyway).\n\nThat summer, Harley finally gave birth to a son, who was named Alan Cooper Spaulding, with Harley deciding to nickname him \"Zach\" after the lead in Phillip's novel. Things couldn't have been better when Harley and her new family agreed to join her best friend, Cassie Layne, and her new fiancé, Prince Richard for a Thanksgiving celebration in San Cristobel. After the celebration, Phillip, Beth and Jim were forced to leave early for business reasons, however, their plane crashed into the mountains. All three were o.k., but Jim opted to leave and brave the cold on his own in an attempt to bring help back. Believing that they were going to die, Phillip and Beth prepared a videotape to be made for Lizzie. Emotions high, they started reminiscing about the past and sought comfort in each other’s arms with the video still recording. After being rescued, both decided to keep their lovemaking a secret and go on with their separate lives.\n\nIn 2000, the unexpected happened: Beth found herself pregnant with Phillip's child. Convinced Phillip would leave Harley to marry her again, Beth told him about the child. When Phillip refused to marry her, she became afraid Jim would leave her and threatened to have an abortion if Phillip told anyone the child was his. And so worried about Beth's state of mind (as well as his own marriage), Phillip reluctantly agreed to keep the child's true paternity a secret while Beth married Jim, Phillip giving the bride away. Their tryst wasn't a complete secret: the missing video was found by Prince Edmund Winslow who used it to blackmail Phillip when Phillip threatened to fire him from Spaulding. Phillip’s hatred of Edmund wasn’t lost on Harley and when she demanded to know the cause, Rick covered by saying Edmund was blackmailing him. At the same time, the Spauldings were dismayed when Lizzie was diagnosed with leukemia.. With Lizzie's condition worsening, her only chance of surviving was a bone marrow transfusion from the baby Beth was carrying. When Jim refused to have his child delivered prematurely in order to save Lizzie, Phillip blurted out the horrible truth: the child Beth was carrying wasn't Jim's; it was his. In the end, Harley refused to forgive Phillip and asked for a divorce.\n\nAt the same time, Jim died heroically in a fire at Christmastime. Almost immediately after, Beth accepted the friendship and support of Edmund. In 2001, against everyone's advice, Beth became his sole champion and encouraged him to secure the crown for himself when he discovered he was the true heir to the throne. Though Phillip tried to show Beth that Edmund couldn't be trusted by telling her Edmund was fixing the island's election, she went to Edmund who immediately used the information to his advantage and went to the press himself, calling the election invalid and declaring himself ruler of San Cristobel. Edmund had Richard arrested and Phillip talked his way past the prison guard and into Richard's cell. When the guard returned, Richard was gone and Phillip was in his place. When Edmund learned what Phillip had done, he had him shackled in the jail. Although Beth was able to save Phillip by convincing Edmund to simply deport him, Phillip told Beth he was seeking sole custody of their children to keep them away from Edmund. Phillip returned weeks later though when Beth asked that the children come for her and Edmund's coronation. Not long after the coronation, he married Beth who became his princess. Mere weeks later, Beth would learn everything people had been saying about Edmund was true when she learned he was holding Cassie captive! Confronted by Beth, a desperate Edmund locked her away but Beth was able to escape from the tower. Luckily, Phillip and Noah saw what Beth was doing and when she fell to the ground, Luckily, Beth was alright and returned to Springfield. After all those months of intrigue, Phillip returned to Springfield in time to see a very pregnant Harley. Instantly assuming she was pregnant with his child, Phillip railed at her that he was the last to know. On the defensive, Harley pointed out he had spent the better part of the winter consumed with Beth in San Cristobel and then informed him he was not the father of her baby. Weeks later, Phillip would be shocked to learn from Edmund just who was the baby's father: Rick.\n\nFurious, Phillip accused Rick of doing this purposely to hurt him (out of revenge for what happened with Meredith Reade) and refused to forgive him. Not long after, Beth ran to Mexico to get a quickie divorce. Edmund caught up with her and again begged her to go back to him. But Beth refused and ran off. While trying to get away from Edmund, Beth was caught in a flash flood and presumed dead. That fall, Phillip was able to get testimony from two witnesses that Edmund had been chasing after Beth when she died, however, the point became moot when Beth suddenly turned up in Springfield alive! Though she claimed to be suffering from memory lapses, Phillip was increasingly suspicious of her strange behavior and personality change. Not long after Beth's return, Phillip learned Harley had Rick's baby, but refused to see the child. However, around Thanksgiving, when the pair was looking for a lost Lizzie and James, Phillip and Rick talked things over and resumed their friendship. Meanwhile, after doing some digging, in early 2002, Phillip learned the woman in town was an imposter named Lorelei Hills. Though Alan wanted her arrested, Phillip was afraid that would traumatize Lizzie and simply asked Lorelei to leave. Though Alan went against Phillip's wishes and had her arrested anyway, when she became ill, Phillip, against his better judgment, allowed her to be cared for at the mansion. The trouble was, she was now insisting she was Beth! Skeptical at first, the more time he spent with her the more he realized this was truly Beth Raines. Beth was the imposter! By the time Phillip realized this, Beth had left Springfield with Edmund! Tracking her down at an old silver mine, Phillip became trapped. Though Beth reasserted herself and raced to the mine to free Phillip, the mine entrance shut while she was inside, trapping them both. Edmund arrived, causing another split between Beth/Lorelei. Edmund accidentally trapped them in the mine a second time, but Beth managed to free Phillip and they found another exit. After getting Beth, who'd taken on the Lorelei personality to deal with her trauma, the help she needed, the pair reunited.\n\nWhile Beth and Phillip reunited was a good idea in concept, the reality was more difficult. Phillip was cold and distant, confused by Beth's changes in personality while Beth was skittish and irritated by Phillip's pompous and patriarchal attitude in taking his son Zach away from Harley because of her relationship with Gus Aitoro. Frustrated by Beth, Phillip found himself susceptible to the charms of Olivia Spencer, Alan's fiancée. Then suddenly, a scandal rocked the household: Lorelei's diary was published! Though Beth immediately suspected Olivia, the publisher stated Lorelei had done the deed. Lizzie, Phillip, everyone, including Beth herself, blamed Beth. Confused, Beth went to Alan's lake cottage to clear her head, and ran into Bill Lewis. In an attempt to remember the past, she kissed him passionately. Phillip walked in at just that moment and railed out her. Later, Olivia told Phillip that it was Alan who published Lorelei's diary. To get revenge on Alan, the couple placed themselves on the bed, waiting for him to arrive. Once again they got carried away and began making out. Alan walked in, took one look at them, and had a heart attack. Later when Beth learned the circumstances of Alan's heart attack, she and Phillip agreed they had both changed far too much to be together, and gracefully parted ways.\n\nThough now free, Phillip was too guilty over his father's heart attack and vowed to stay away from Olivia, who agreed to marry Alan as well as sign an extreme prenuptial agreement which said she would lose her half of the Beacon Hotel if she cheated before the wedding. But she and Phillip kissed in the elevator moments before the ceremony, and Alex pocketed the security tape. On Thanksgiving Day, Alexandra revealed Olivia had published Lorelei's Diary. Meanwhile, Alex eventually gave Olivia the security tape. Alan found the tape and saw Olivia and Phillip's smooch was right in front of his eyes. Alan threw her out of the house and into the cold, days before Christmas. Later, after finding out Alan faked his earlier heart attack, Phillip and Olivia saw no reason to deny their feelings now, they wildly made love. The couple's happiness didn't last long. Confused about whether to end her marriage, Olivia went out of town in early 2003 to visit her sister and clear her head. While away, she made her choice and sent Phillip a priority letter saying she wanted to be with him and for him to meet her at the Beacon. Alan intercepted the letter and kept it from Phillip. When Olivia arrived at the Beacon, Alan and not Phillip was there to greet her. Hurt and vulnerable, Olivia let herself be seduced by Alan only to have Phillip arrive at the Beacon the next morning and find the two together. Disgusted that she'd fall into Alan's arms so soon, Phillip walked away. When Olivia tried to explain the situation, Phillip revealed he never got the letter. Though the pair figured out Alan intercepted the letter, that didn't matter to Phillip who decided he'd be better off not chasing after his father's wife. However, when Olivia revealed to Phillip she was pregnant and the child might be his, Phillip agreed to stand by her no matter what. Meanwhile, Phillip swore off Spaulding but was pulled back into the company when Alex informed him Alan was acting erratically.\n\nFaced with a mentally disturbed Alan, Phillip agreed to come back to the company. Not long after, an angry but well Alan was termed innocent of Reva's stalking and informed Phillip he was handing control of Spaulding over to his real son—Gus Aitoro! In addition to his troubles with Alan, Alex's schemes to break up Olivia and Phillip seemed to work after Alex paid someone to doctor the paternity test Phillip had secretly done without Olivia's knowledge which showed Alan was the father. However, Olivia had had her own tests done which proved otherwise. Olivia couldn't forgive Phillip's mistrust and asked him to stay away from her. Weeks later, Olivia would fall down the stairs at the Beacon. Although she and the baby were okay, she refused to see Phillip. Later, Phillip was shocked to learn she thought Lizzie was responsible for her fall. Incredulous, Phillip was dismayed to learn Beth and Lillian shared the fear and spirited the girl away to a cabin without his knowledge. In denial for months over Lizzie's emotional state, Phillip was later horrified when Lizzie threatened to kill herself after being confronted by Beth and Lillian. Though Harley was able to defuse the situation and bring Lizzie home, Phillip finally realized his daughter needed help. The situation with Lizzie brought Phillip to the breaking point and he began making plans for his soon-to-be-born daughter and suffering from panic attacks. Though an anxious Phillip tried to convince Olivia to marry him, she saw he was only asking because he wanted to provide a home for the child she was carrying, not because he loved her. Not long after she gave Phillip a non-answer to his marriage proposal, things finally came to a head with Lizzie. The night of Olivia's baby shower, Lizzie sneaked out of the house on the pretense of giving Olivia a gift. When a frightened Olivia refused the gift and asked Lizzie to leave, Lizzie continued to push the gift on Olivia and finally was escorted home by Christopher. That night, Olivia found something in her baby crib—a doll's head. Though Lizzie tried to deny it and pleaded with her family to believe her, she was unable to convince her family of her innocence.\n\nA horrified Olivia decided she had to get as far away from Lizzie as possible and left Springfield. Convinced he was a horrible father because he couldn't help Lizzie, Phillip's mental state would only get worse. Though agreeing to check himself into Cedars in order to have tests done, Phillip discharged himself early after doctors said there was nothing physically wrong with him. However, those close to Phillip could tell there was something seriously wrong. Phillip finally lost his grip on reality, seeing visions of Olivia everywhere. Finally, Phillip began stalking a pregnant woman and broke into her home, thinking she was Olivia. After that incident, Phillip's family decided to arrange an intervention, the same as they had with Lizzie, in order to convince Phillip to get himself help. By now Phillip had grown increasingly paranoid and delusional, but when he realized that his deteriorating condition was scaring Lizzie, Phillip agreed to go to the hospital for tests. After seeing yet another vision of Olivia (though unbeknownst to him, this one was real), Phillip checked himself into Ravenwood Mental Hospital. By now the family knew Olivia was in town, and believing she could help Phillip, they persuaded her to visit him. Phillip's condition had worsened greatly and unsure of his own sanity, he tried to strangle Olivia, thinking she was an hallucination. Unnerved, days later Olivia returned and told Phillip why she'd come back—their baby had died. Instead of the truth snapping Phillip back into reality, it only made him draw deeper into himself, becoming almost catatonic, and to Olivia's horror Phillip started blaming himself.\n\nAs time went by, Phillip seemed trapped in his shell, unaware of what was going on around him. Then in January 2004, his condition seemed to improve somewhat. Although he remained silent, he started responding to people. Meanwhile, Olivia hurriedly got a minister to marry her and Phillip at the institution. Olivia's position as Phillip's wife secure, she set out to solidify her power base at Spaulding and more by having Phillip change his will. Meanwhile, she kept a firm hold on Phillip, limiting his visitors, and often answering questions posed to Phillip herself. Finally, weeks later, Phillip received a shock when Olivia showed Phillip their daughter, Emma, who hadn't died after all. Although Phillip agreed to Olivia's demand of telling no one of Emma's existence, in order to protect the child from Lizzie, in private a vengeful Phillip vowed to make Olivia pay and take the child from her. For Olivia, Phillip proved to be a loose cannon and revealed to others Emma was alive. Although Beth and Rick dismissed Phillip's claims as denial, Lizzie was very suspicious and eventually presented Emma to Phillip.. Soon after, Phillip decided he had to take drastic measures to get his life back on track and, on Rick's recommendation, he underwent ECT therapy. Meanwhile, Phillip and Olivia started playing a dangerous game with each other, with Olivia playing the concerned, dutiful wife and with Phillip physically intimidating her. Finally after weeks of therapy, Phillip was released from the hospital and returned home where he and Olivia continued their cat and mouse game. Although Alan suggested Phillip simply get rid of Olivia, Phillip had something devious in mind for his wife. His plan was to frame her for the Antimonious drug scandal that Spaulding was being investigated for. Phillip's plan was foiled with the Feds dropped the investigation before they discovered the evidence. Not long after Phillip got his revenge on Olivia by blackmailing her with the knowledge she had illegally purchased Spaulding stock. With the choice between prison and staying married, Olivia was forced to bow down to Phillip's wishes. cold and calculating, Phillip to set out to embarrass Olivia and keep her under his thumb. In addition, he had Olivia trailed and cut off access to her bank accounts, in the event she'd try to leave. For his final act of revenge, he demanded Olivia resign from Spaulding, giving her a prepared speech on what to say. Finally, on the day of Harley's almost wedding to Gus, Phillip finally gave Olivia what she wanted—a divorce.\n\nThat was the only good thing that would happen that day. For on that day, Harley discovered not only was Alexandra an accomplice in the Antimonious drug deal, but Gus knew. In short order, Harley called the wedding off, Frank (framed for the crime) held a gun on Alan, and Buzz turned Alex in to the police. Seeing a grave injustice to his family, Phillip went after the Coopers, specifically Company. Deciding to rebuild the city of Springfield, Phillip, in a cold and calculating manner worthy of Alan, went through the government and secured permission to go forth with his plans. When Harley and Buzz learned who was behind the takeover of Company, they were furious. However, Phillip remained cold and unapologetic stating it was just business and offered to compensate Buzz fairly. But Buzz refused to give up and decided to fight. Phillip refused to make it easy on the Coopers, visiting Company at every turn and basically rubbing salt in the wound. However, the Coopers weren't the only family Phillip was after. In order to create his own version of Springfield, Phillip needed to acquire more property and made it appear as if he wanted to take over Cross Creek in order to distract them from their other properties. Meanwhile, very soon after, Phillip overheard Bill pleading with one of his employees, to reconsider resigning. Impressed with this middle-aged woman, named Ruth Karloff, Phillip interviewed her and found her to be no-nonsense, efficient and loyal and he hired her as his personal assistant. As the days went by, Phillip was growing more and more callous with each passing day. When he learned Lizzie had drugged her boyfriend, Joey Lupo, he inexplicably took Lizzie's side and blackmailed Joey into leaving town by threatening to foreclose on Mrs. Lupo's house. Days later, Phillip was enraged when his plans for Company were foiled when it was discovered the area was a nesting place for a rare bird. Angry that he'd lost, Phillip vindictively tore down Harley's house. Phillip's malice towards the Coopers wasn't lost on Zach, who distanced himself from Phillip. Although the Coopers denied it, Phillip was certain they were poisoning Zach's mind against him. In the meantime, Lizzie was having her own problems and confessed to Phillip she believed she'd hit Sandy Foster with her car. Desperate to protect his daughter, Phillip urged her to keep quiet while he took care of everything. Meanwhile, Phillip was becoming paranoid that someone at Spaulding was working against him and asked Gus to run a background check on all key employees. In the meantime, Gus was becoming concerned the mole was actually Ruth, Phillip's now trusted assistant. Phillip expressed his doubts.\n\nWhen Ruth began asking questions about the hit and run, he quickly realized Gus was right and decided Ruth needed to be neutralized to protect Lizzie. To accomplish this, he arranged for a man to run Ruth down! His plan failed however, when Gus ended up saving her life. In the midst of all this, Phillip's diabolical behavior concerned everyone, including those closest to him. In an effort to get through to Phillip, Rick arranged for Phillip to be kidnapped so they could talk. Although Rick tried reasoning, he only succeeded in making Phillip angry. That same day, Phillip learned something startling from Zach—Ruth was Harley in disguise! Still dealing with that revelation, Phillip was shocked to learn Lizzie was at the police station, about to confess to the hit and run! Although he tried to demand she keep quiet, Lizzie openly defied her father and admitted the truth. Believing everyone was against him, Phillip decided to leave Springfield with the only people he cared about—his children. After luring all the children to his private jet, Phillip informed everyone he had the children. Harley attempted to appeal to the human side of him, but to no avail. Not long after, Phillip arranged for Lizzie to be brought to him, however when she refused to go with him, he became enraged and vowed to destroy the people who have cost him his daughter's love. That same night, he asked several people to meet him at Company at 9 pm, telling each person if they came, and told no one else of the meeting, their children would be returned to them. At 9 pm, various citizens of Springfield converged at Company to find Phillip shot. Although he was rushed to the hospital, it was too late and Phillip was declared dead.\n\nAfter a short investigation, Harley was arrested, and the spring of 2005, convicted of Phillip's murder. Months after her conviction, Phillip's real shooter was revealed—it was Alan. However, that wasn't the end of the story. Having been revealed to be Phillip's killer, Alan knew he had to leave town and paid a visit to an abandoned warehouse where he met with none other than Phillip. Apparently Alan's concerns about Phillip's state of mind caused him to take drastic action in order to protect his son and his grandchildren: he shot Phillip and faked his death. Unknown to everyone else in Springfield, a completely delusional Phillip was living out his life as CEO of Spaulding in an abandoned warehouse office made to look like his Spaulding office. When Alan was arrested no one believed his story about Philip being alive. Not only that, but the medical staff stopped looking after Phillip because Alan couldn’t pay. Phillip disappeared and later called Rick, stating he needed his help. Despite Rick's reluctance, Phillip pleaded with his friend to keep his situation a secret. Phillip was almost discovered by Mallet the day Harley married Gus but managed to escape. Meanwhile, frantic that a mentally disturbed Phillip was a danger to himself as well as to others, Alan went to desperate lengths to lure him into the open. To draw Phillip out, Alan married none other than Beth.\n\nIn the Spring of 2006, Phillip’s Uncle Ross was apparently killed when his plane went down on the way to San Gabriel. After some investigating, Harley learned Alan was telling the truth—Phillip was alive .Rick confirmed it and admitted Ross suspected the truth and set out to find him. Determined not to be found, Phillip asked Rick to have the plane sabotaged so Ross couldn’t take off. Tragically, the plane went up anyway and Ross was killed. In late 2007, the specter of Phillip continued to loom over Springfield. It started at Emma’s seventh birthday party where she received a gift apparently from her father. Panicked, Olivia went to Alan for protection, unaware it was Alan who sent the gift as a way to manipulate Olivia into helping him. When Olivia tried to bow out, Alan upped the ante by hiring someone to break into her room and trash it. Not long after, Alan unexpectedly hired Harley to find Phillip. Though distressed at the thought of him returning, Harley decided it might be best to know his whereabouts and took the case. It didn't take long to learn Beth had received a gift from Phillip for her unborn baby. However, it came from a courier and she had no clue where Phillip was. At one point, Phillip sent Harley a card telling her to stop looking for him; she’ll see him when he is ready. Afterwards, Harley spotted Zach’s new sneakers and the boy was forced to admit they came from Phillip. Told Phillip would be at his ballgame, Harley and her partner Cyrus Foley waited and Cyrus tackled a hooded man they thought was Phillip. It was Remy who claimed to have run into Phillip after losing some gambling money in Clayton. Remy claimed Phillip paid him to deliver this package (which contained Phillip’s old high school sports jersey) to Zach. Remy told the duo he didn’t know where Phillip was, but doubted he was returning to town.\n\nSometime later, Bill Lewis became involved with Lizzie, and was falsely accused of being responsible for Lizzie's kidnapping (orchestrated by Dinah Marler and executed by Grady Foley). Despite her insistence that she believed Bill was not responsible for her kidnapping, Lizzie's faith in Bill began to wain and she slowly turned into Alan's pawn, distancing herself from Bill. In an effort to make Lizzie see reason, Bill (along with his father, Billy), set out to find Phillip in an effort to get him to help her. Bill was unsuccessful in his search, but things would work out in a way he never expected.\n\nOn February 9, 2009, in an effort to prevent Beth from marrying Alan, Coop Bradshaw was involved in a car accident on his way to the church. Badly injured, Coop was pulled from the wreckage by Phillip. In the following episode, Phillip spoke with Alan alone, at Phillip's mock grave site. He then pulled a gun on Alan, but told him he had no intention of shooting him. He even thanked Alan for straightening him out during his time of mental illness. Later that day, he stopped an enraged Buzz Cooper from physically attacking Alan.\n\nPhillip's return jolted the entire Spaulding family, and they barely had time to adjust when Beth's and Phillip's 19-year-old son, James, returned from boarding school. James was running a Ponzi scheme and even when Phillip helped clear the charges against him, he resented Phillip's return. Beth was torn between the love of her life and the son who had only known the worst of his father. During this time Beth also helped her daughter Lizzie marry Bill Lewis.\n\nEventually, Phillip learned he was dying. He didn't tell anyone, aside from Lillian, and tried to repair the relationships in his life with the time he had left. Beth found out in what were supposed to be Phillip's last days, and she felt devastated as well as betrayed by Phillip and by her mother. Fortunately for Phillip, Alan agreed to a bone marrow transplant, and saved his son's life, but a few days later, Alan quietly died after attending the double wedding of Lillian and Buzz Cooper and Vanessa Chamberlain and Billy Lewis. Beth was forced to break the news to her young daughter Peyton. Shortly before Alan's death, Phillip had proposed to Beth, and she had happily accepted. James and Phillip were now reconciled and Lizzie was trying for a baby. Beth also decided to return to her first love, drawing. A year later, Beth and Phillip were happily married, and were celebrating the upcoming nuptials of their best friends Rick and Mindy.\n\nPhillip's first wife was Mindy Lewis, daughter of Billy Lewis and his deceased first wife Diana. Mindy originally was the lover of Rick Bauer and Phillip was engaged to Beth Raines. However, after Phillip and Mindy had a one-night stand (because they thought Rick and Beth slept together), Mindy became pregnant. Phillip decided to do the right thing by marrying Mindy in 1984. Not long after, Mindy suffered a miscarriage and the marriage crumbled. Phillip maintained his feelings for Beth, while Mindy still longed for Rick. Within six months, the couple opted for an amicable divorce in 1985.\n\nPhillip was at first smitten with India, stepdaughter of his aunt, Alexandra Spaulding, from her marriage to the Baron Leo von Halkein. However, soon after arriving in Springfield, India began a vendetta against the Spaulding family. She blackmailed Phillip into marriage in 1984, and became a member of the board of directors at Spaulding Enterprises. Phillip and India's wedding is regarded as one of the most memorable nuptials in soap opera history. After India's affair with Simon Hall, she and Phillip divorced in early 1986. India remained on the Spaulding Enterprises board of directors indefinitely.\n\nPhillip believed Beth to be dead, so he moved on with the scheming Blake Thorpe. They married in mid 1989. Blake and Phillip's marriage immediately began to crumble when it appeared that Beth was in fact alive. Thereafter, Beth and Phillip consummated their relationship. Phillip divorced Blake later that year, and Blake sought revenge by romantically pursuing his brother, Alan-Michael Spaulding.\n\nPhillip married the love of his life, Beth Raines in 1991. Phillip's wedding to Beth is also considered to be memorable, in that it featured one of the show's most popular couples to finally say their \"I do's.\" The couple's first dance as man and wife was to Lionel Richie's 1982 debut solo \"Truly,\" which is also remembered as the song Phillip and Beth danced to at their high school prom where they were named king and queen. In later years, Beth had already given birth to a healthy baby girl named Lizzie Spaulding and together she and Phillip left Springfield. They were happy offscreen for quite a while and Phillip returned to Springfield in 1994 to find out who framed him for a number of criminal acts. Phillip moved on with Harley Cooper, but Beth returned. She and Phillip tried to reconnect, but eventually the marriage failed because of the time apart. They separated in 1995. Beth continued to try to separate Phillip from his attachment to Harley, but their divorce was finalized in 1997 after Beth coaxed Lizzie into trying to interfere with Phillip's newfound happiness.\nAt the end of the series Phillip and Beth found happiness.\n\nPhillip married Harley in a surprise family ceremony officiated by the mayor of New York, Rudy Gulliani, in 1997. The wedding was organized by Phillip's Best Friend, Rick; Harley's stepmother, Jenna and Phillip's Aunt Alexandra. In a surprise moment, Phillip asked Alan to be his best man. Harley gave birth to their son, Alan Cooper \"Zach\" Spaulding. The marriage had its share of ups and downs; and ultimately, the couple divorced in 2001 after Phillip had lied about his unborn child resulting from an affair with Beth.\n\nOlivia Spencer was married to Phillip's father Alan, but after an affair and a pregnancy, Alan kidnapped Olivia and held her away on an island. Phillip rescued her and ultimately, with the use of blackmail, Alan gave Olivia a divorce in 2003. Olivia and Phillip continued to court each other until they ultimately married in 2004 when she gave birth to Emma Spaulding. Eventually, thanks to Harley, Buzz Cooper, and Frank Cooper, Phillip developed a vendetta against the Cooper family and literally went insane. After having him committed, Olivia divorced him and ran away with her daughter Emma.\n\n"}
{"id": "6779037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6779037", "title": "Pratap Naik", "text": "Pratap Naik\n\nFr. Pratap Naik, S.J., is a Jesuit priest from Goa, India. He is the director of the Thomas Stephens Konkkni Kendr (TSKK), a research institute working on issues related to the Konkani language, literature, culture and education. The institute is based in Alto Porvorim, on the outskirts of the state capital of Panaji, Goa.\n\nNaik was one of the proponents for founding the TSKK. The proposal to do so was brought up before the provincial congregation (one of the official bodies of the Jesuits) in 1978. \"We wanted to start a school, in the European sense. An institute of higher learning to teach Konkani to Jesuits (primarily and to others too),\" according to Naik, who was then a young scholastic trained to take up this work.\n\nTSKK is named after Thomas Stephens, the 16th century English Jesuit priest missionary who came to Goa in 1579 and lived in the region till his death. Stevens authored the \"Arte da lingoa Canarim\", which was written in Portuguese, and was the first printed grammar of what is now called the Konkani language\n\nIn 1982 TSKK was registered as a society, and it commenced operation in January 1986 from its former premises at Loyola Hall in Miramar, Goa. Miramar itself is a centre for training young men wanting to become Jesuit priests.\n\nThe TSKK focuses on education and research of the Konkani language, literature and culture. Speaking about the professional activities of the TSKK, Pratap Naik has said, \"We are not limiting ourselves only to Goa, but wherever Konkani is spoken. Shortly, we are going to study Siddi Konkani, spoken by a community of former slaves who were once located in Goa, and are now based in Yellapur in Konkani [sic]. For this we are collaborating with two Brazilian professors.\"\n\nA large number of expatriates whose mother tongue was once Konkani are located outside of the Konkani-speaking regions of India. Regarding the creation of opportunities to educate members of such expatriate communities, Naik says: \"It's a bit difficult. Distance education is more for information. Learning certain language skills has to be done through intensive contact programs. Short courses could be offered to attain language proficiency.\"\n\nSince 1986, Jesuit scholastics training to become priests were sent for a one-month training in Konkani. In 2003, a Konkani postgraduate diploma course was proposed.\n\nIn 2006, Naik was involved a campaign to get official recognition for the Roman script of Konkani, along with the Devanagari script, which is the sole officially recognized script for Konkani in Goa.\n"}
{"id": "11606609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11606609", "title": "Robert Lawlor", "text": "Robert Lawlor\n\nRobert Lawlor (born 1938) is a mythographer, symbologist and New Age author of several books.\n\nAfter training as a painter and a sculptor, he became a yoga student of Sri Aurobindo and lived for many years in Puducherry, where he was a founding member of Auroville. In India, he discovered the works of the French Egyptologist and esotericist, R. A. Schwaller de Lubicz, which led him to explore the principles and practices of ancient sacred science.\n\nBetween 1965-8, Robert met his wife, Deborah Lawlor. In 1972, they left Auroville for a year so Robert could study sacred geometry and read Sri Aurobindo. They came back to Auroville in 1973 until 1975.\n\nIn 1979, Lawlor (then living in Tasmania) participated in the Lindisfarne Fellows Conference, held at Zen Center's Green Gulch Farm, with Keith Critchlow from London. In 1980, Lawlor met together with William Irwin Thompson and Rachel Fletcher to teach in the Lindisfarne Institute's Summer Program in Sacred Architecture, which provided the context for the design and building of the Lindisfarne Chapel. Critchlow's \"Twelve Criteria for Sacred Architecture\" derives from a lecture given at this time. In 1981, a gathering of about 50 members of the Lindisfarne Association met in Crestone, Colorado under the name, \"Homage to Pythagoras\", which included Lawlor, Thompson, Fletcher, Chritchlow, Christopher Bamford, Arthur Zajonc, Anne Macaulay, Kathleen Raine, Robert Bly, Joscelyn Godwin, John Michell, and Ernest McClain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42407856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42407856", "title": "Ruslan Dibirgadjiyev", "text": "Ruslan Dibirgadjiyev\n\nRuslan Adilkhanovich Dibirghadzhiyev (, ; born 20 July 1988, Dagestan) is a Avar Russian naturalized Azerbaijani freestyle wrestler. He competed at the 70 kg division in the 2014 European Wrestling Championships and won the gold medal after beating Grigor Grigoryan of Armenia.\n"}
{"id": "34054376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34054376", "title": "Ruth Ojadi", "text": "Ruth Ojadi\n\nRuth O. Ojadi is a British singer-songwriter who appeared in BBC's documentary, \"Tourettes: I Swear I Can Sing\". She attended Middlesex University in 2006 but dropped out after two years due to her Tourette syndrome. She also appeared in the Channel 4 show \"The Undateables\" and is bisexual. \nShe was born in Crouch End, North London, England, to Nigerian parents. Her father went back to Nigeria when she was two.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "20981419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20981419", "title": "Sally Johnson", "text": "Sally Johnson\n\nSally Johnson is an American female winemaker based in Napa, California known for Cabernet Sauvignon wines. She is an influential California winemaker currently working at Pride Mountain Vineyards, where her wines are routinely ranked in Wine Spectator's Top 100 wine list.\n\nJohnson came to the world of wine by way of biotech in college, where she studied abroad in France and learned about wine. She came to California and studied winemaking at University of California, Davis.\n\nAfter college, Johnson joined St. Francis Winery in Sonoma County and stayed eight years. She then took a brief hiatus in 2002 and relocated to Australia to work at St. Hallett Winery in South Australia's Barossa Valley and also produced her own label, Lalys Cellars, for several years.\n\nIn 2007, Johnson moved back to California and joined Pride Mountain Vineyards. She is now a consulting winemaker for Curvature, Hotel Domestique Winery 17, Schoolhouse and Sequum wines.\n\n"}
{"id": "44215460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44215460", "title": "Shamseddin Mojabi", "text": "Shamseddin Mojabi\n\nSeyed Shamseddin Mojabi (1939 – 29 April 2012) was an Iranian academic, government adviser and political activist. He was an adviser to Ayatollah Khomeini during his stay in Neauphle-le-Château on the outskirts of Paris, France in 1978.\n\nMojabi was arrested twice by SAVAK in 1963, and following his release left Iran to study and later work in France for 14 years. During the Iranian revolution he would return to Iran where he would work at his alma mater, Amirkabir University of Technology (formerly Tehran Polytechnic), as a professor of civil engineering.\n\nMojabi was born in 1939 into a religious and cultured family in Qazvin. His father Seyed Ziaedin was a well-known merchant in the Caravanserai of Sa'd al-Saltaneh. In 1949, Mojabi's father moved the family to Tehran. The family's residence was in Baharestan Square which in the 1940s and 1950s was the epicentre of political activities. In those years Shamseddin began his political activity in the Third Force, and later in the neighbourhoods committee of the National Resistance Movement.\n\nMojabi studied at the Dar ul-Funun, where he gained a diploma in Mathematics. After gaining his diploma, he went to Teacher Training College, and in 1957 and 1958 was employed by the Ministry of Culture as an elementary school teacher. In 1959, Mojabi ranked first nationally in the Concours for civil engineering, and won a place at Tehran Polytechnic. At university, he met Dr. Abbas Sheibani and Morteza Hajizadeh and continued his political activities. In this period the Freedom Movement of Iranian Students became active, and his interest and familiarity with political issues led to him joining the movement's Political Committee, led by Rahim Ataei.\n\nAt Tehran Polytechnic, as Mojabi was the valedictorian certain teaching responsibilities were passed to him, and he would use university facilities to distribute Imam Khomeini's announcements. The Political Committee of the Freedom Movement, whose job was to check the news and political information, had a meeting at on 22 May 1963. The meeting for the first time took place at the house of Ahmad Sayyed Javadi, who at that time was the Prosecutor of Tehran. Individuals including Saeed Mohsen, Mohammad Hanifnejad, and Mohammad Mehdi Jafari were present at the meeting. Jafari had contacts within the nomadic tribes of Southern Iran, and in March and April 1963, he visited southern Iran on various occasions. For SAVAK, who were observing him, this was suspicious. On the night of the meeting Jafari returned from the South, and SAVAK agents followed him. At midnight the house was sieged and all the participants were taken to SAVAK's detention centre in Tehran. 12 people were arrested, and Mojabi was amongst them.\n\nWhile in prison Mojabi suffered from heart problems but owing to the presence of fellow inmates Dr. Sheibani and Dr. Azar, his friends ensured his health did not deteriorate. At the same time, John F. Kennedy was assassinated. Using this opportunity, Mojabi and others sent a protest letter to the police chiefs stating, \"if we are to be executed, then execute us now, if you have no intentions with us, then free us so we can continue with our education\". After some time the prisoners were released by the Tehran Prosecutor on the condition they did not leave the country. Some of the leaders of the Freedom Movement were released, but soon after were under arrest again. After his release he returned to Tehran Polytechnic and completed his studies. Upon graduation, with the intervention of Ali Akbar Moinfar, Mojabi was brought into the Engineering Ministry Program, later renamed the Ministry of Housing.\n\nMojabi initially travelled to London to have heart surgery, and to enrol at a university. There Mojabi managed to find a heart specialist who could carry out the operation, however as the operation in the UK was very costly, Mojabi travelled to Paris.\n\nMojabi enrolled at the Sorbonne in the Faculty of Sciences at the Institut Henri Poincaré, and became engrossed in his studies. In France he was able to use his previously unused insurance premiums for pay for his hospital costs. For 9 months, until August 1965 Mojabi remained in hospital. Whilst in hospital he studied and following his release passed two pre-doctorate diplomas in Applied Mechanics and Thermodynamics. This allowed Mojabi to enrol in the doctorate program. After 3 years, Mojabi completed a doctorate with a \"Très honorable avec félicitations\" distinction in 1967, with a PhD entitled \"Buckling of reinforced concrete columns hinged at both ends\".\n\nDuring his studies, the Comité Euro-International du Béton (CEB), which his university professors had recommended him for, hired him. There the President of the organisation, Professor Jacques-Ramsay Robinson, noticed his abilities and they began to work together.\n\nIn France, Mojabi was one of the leaders of the Union of Islamic Students Association in Europe – and was active in this group alongside Hassan Habibi, Sadeq Tabatabaei, Javad Ezhei, Karim Khodapanahi and Abolhassan Banisadr. After the formation of the People's Mujahedin of Iran Mojabi was familiar with some of the founders and cooperated with the organisation. However, although he had a deep knowledge regarding Marxism–Leninism, soon he noticed changes in the MKO's ideology and through discussions over Islamic thought realised that they had an intellectual diversion. So much so that according to the writings of MKO members in France, Mojabi had \"maintained strong religious beliefs\", and believed that there must be \"moral standards\" in politics. For this reason, he distanced himself from that organisation and upon the arrival of Imam Khomeini to Paris he advised him during his stay in Neauphle-le-Château and supported his opposition movement. Mojabi, in addition to Abolhassan Banisadr, Sadegh Ghotbzadeh, Mozaffar Firouz, Ahmad Ghazanfarpour were a group of Iranian residents in France who advised Khomeini.\n\nWith the return of Mojabi to Iran in 1978, a new chapter in his life commenced. In this period he returned to academia, and after 14 years away from his homeland became familiar once again with the political and social issues of Iran. In late May 1978 with the order of Abolhassan Banisadr and with the excuse of the Cultural Revolution universities in Iran were suspended and Mojabi returned to Paris with his wife and children and did not return until October 1979. After returning to Iran and the reopening of universities, and whilst working at the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC), Mojabi continued teaching in the universities.\n\nFollowing the revolution, Mojabi attempted to run for candidacy for the Qazvin seat of the 1980 Iranian legislative election, however as an Independent candidate lacked the institutional support of other candidates.\n\nLater, during the Iran–Iraq War, Mojabi would play a vital role in working for the NIOC, and for the Ministry of Defence where under the direction of Akbar Torkan, Mojabi was involved in projects such as the design of underground hospitals and other defence structures or military buildings. This included the design of the Al-Faw Hospital, which despite 6 months of continuous bombing went undamaged.\n\n"}
{"id": "7576611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7576611", "title": "Sándor Kopácsi", "text": "Sándor Kopácsi\n\nSándor Kopácsi (March 5, 1922, Miskolc – March 2, 2001, Toronto) was a participant in, and chronicler of, the Hungarian Revolution of 1956.\n\nHe began his professional life as a metalworker, as did his father and grandfather. In 1944, he fought with the resistance movement organized by MOKÁN (in English, the Anti-Nazi Committee of Hungarian Communists). After the war, many of its members (including Kopácsi) were enlisted to help form the nation's new police force. After a posting to Budapest in 1949, he was appointed Director of Internment Affairs in the Interior Ministry. Despite the impressive title, he was not allowed to do much more than manage paperwork relating to the labor camps. When he attempted to exercise his authority on behalf of the prisoners, he was dismissed and sent to a Party school for re-training. In 1952, he became the Police Chief of Budapest. At that time the Police Department was effectively a branch of ÁVH (the State Protection Authority). According to Kopácsi, more policemen were arrested than criminals, so he set about to make the Department more independent. A year later, he was elected to the Hungarian Parliament where he soon became part of the reform movement led by Imre Nagy.\n\nAfter the 20th Congress of the CPSU in 1956, Kopácsi spoke out openly, at a police party meeting, against Mátyás Rákosi. Influenced by events during the Poznań workers' uprising, he and several others announced at a meeting of high-ranking army and police officers that they would not fire on the people. On October 31, 1956, Kopácsi was included in the executive committee of the HSWP, charged with preparing for the first congress. He won the confidence of the insurgent groups during the revolution, and on November 3, he was elected deputy commander of the national guard, at a meeting of special forces at the Kilián Barracks (9th District). His plan, at talks with Imre Nagy, was for the rebels to be disarmed after the fighting had ceased. On November 5, 1956, he was arrested by Ivan Serov, the head of the KGB. Placed on trial with Nagy and his associates, Kopácsi was sentenced to life imprisonment by the Supreme Court on June 15, 1958, but freed in the 1963 amnesty. From 1963 to 1965, he worked as a turner in the telephone factory, but then he found a job in Solymár (Pest County) as a technical officer. In 1969, he obtained permission to complete his university studies, but on receiving his law degree, he failed to find a job to match his qualifications. In 1975, he emigrated with his wife to Canada, where he was employed as a waiter, a worker in a refrigerator factory, and then as a manual laborer in Ontario Hydro, the provincial electrical utility.\n\nThe original manuscript in Hungarian was over a thousand pages long. With the help of , a Hungarian journalist living in Paris, the manuscript was abridged, edited and translated into French. \"Au Nom de la Classe Ouvrière\" was published by Éditions Robert Laffont in 1979. Shortly thereafter, it came to the attention of Canadian journalists Daniel & Judy Stoffman, who arranged for an interview with the author that was published in the \"Toronto Star\" . This led to an English translation under his direction. It remains an important primary source on the revolution.\n\nHe retired in 1987. In 1989, he was named Righteous Among the Nations by Yad Vashem - Holocaust commemoration authority of the state of Israel - for sheltering Jews in his home during World War II. After the fall of the Communist government in 1990, he returned to Hungary where his military rank was restored. He went back to Canada in 2000, and died of a heart attack on March 2, 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44758840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44758840", "title": "Telémachos Alexiou", "text": "Telémachos Alexiou\n\nTelémachos Alexiou (born 3 January 1992 in Evvoia, Greece) is a Greek-German film maker and visual artist.\n\nTelémachos Alexiou was born in Chalkida, Evvoia, Greece. He is the son of Pavlina Alexiou, a local real estate agent, and Konstantinos Alexiou, a math professor. As a child he trained as a ballroom dancer. By the age of sixteen he had won all ballroom dance national titles.\n\nAt the age of seventeen Alexiou moved to London, UK, to study Communications & Visual Culture and later to Berlin, Germany, where he studied film theory and started working as a filmmaker and artist.\n\nIn 2009, Alexiou directed his first medium-length experimental film, The Logic Of The Cat, which had a cinema release only two years later.\n\nIn 2010, Alexiou attracted international attention with his experimental video The Dream Of Norma, starring Vaginal Davis, which premiered at the Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nAfter The Dream Of Norma Alexiou directed multiple short and medium-length films and video works, including the film Venus In The Garden, which have been presented in various film festivals and art spaces around the world such as Temporäre Kunsthalle Berlin, LA Outfest et al.\n\nIn 2011, the Arsenal Institute for Film and Video Art in Berlin dedicated a mini-retrospective to his films and started archiving his work.\n\nIn 2014, Telémachos Alexiou finished his first feature film, Queen Antigone (Vasilissa Antigoni), a reconfiguration of the ancient tragedy Antigone by Sophocles. The film was produced by the legendary Berlin film producer Jürgen Brüning. It premiered at the Mumbai Int. Film Festival in October of the same year and had its European premiere at the Thessaloniki International Film Festival a month later.\n\nAlexiou identifies as gay and describes his films as partly autobiographical.\n\nTelémachos Alexiou is also a polyglot. He currently speaks nine languages fluently and understands a dozen more.\n"}
{"id": "39657931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39657931", "title": "Terentius Varro", "text": "Terentius Varro\n\nTerentius Varro was the name used by men in a branch of the \"gens Terentia\" in ancient Rome, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29908332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29908332", "title": "Terloy", "text": "Terloy\n\nThe Terloy (also Terlo, Teroy) (Chechen: ТIерлой, ТIерой) is a Chechen tukkhum. Nowadays the majority of the Terloy tribe reside in the western part of Chechnya – So'ljan district, Teh'a-Martan district, H'alha-Martan district, Akhmetovsky district of Georgia and in some villages of republic Ingushetia. But the origin place of Terloy tribe is in south-west Chechnya Terloy-Mohk, up on the mountains, Galanchoj district. There are no people living there since February 1944. All villages were destroyed by Soviet government and was forbidden to live there because the region was considered as rebellious and dangerous.\nTerloy speak in Iton-Khelan dialect of Chechen language.\nThe name Terloy comes from the geographical place of origin. Ter – from up, loy – indicates to belonging to a group. The population demographics is not known exactly, but it is considered to have around 30,000 people.\n\n«Дийначу нехан буьйда бIаьргаш диина маI-ТIерлой» - Terloy, who ate uncooked eyes of alive people. There is a parable, according to which Terloys had eaten eye of a person from a group of people who came to steal cattle of Terloy. Terloy people killed all the men except one. He was that poor man who lost his eye. They left him in the example for others so that he would tell people who did it and for what reason.\nIn 1994 in the beginning of war with Russia there were formed some groups by Terloy to defeat Russian aggression. And there was also one regiment organized by people from Galanchoj district called Galanchojan Polk but mostly composed of Terloy because the leader of it was from Terloy.\n\n\nThis is a mosque in Terloy-Mohk at Oshni sub-tribe's place.\nFighting Protуctive Tower in Terloy-Mohk at Mocaroy's place.\nRuins of residentшal towers. Terloy-Mohk, Nikar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31640682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31640682", "title": "Tomo Milinović", "text": "Tomo Milinović\n\nToma Đurov Milinović (; 1770–1846) or Tomo Milinović (), nicknamed Morinjanin (), was a Serbian writer and revolutionary, a \"vojvoda\" under Karađorđe Petrović during the First Serbian Uprising against the Ottoman Empire, he was also Karađorđe's advisor and head of artillery in one of the greatest battles during the uprising, Battle of Deligrad. While in exile in Trieste and Bessarabia, Tomo wrote, \"Umotvorine\" (Proverbs) and \"Istorija Slavenskog Primorja\" (History of the Slavic Littoral). \n\nTomo Đurov Milinović was born in Morinj in the Bay of Kotor, at the time part of the Republic of Venice (today Kotor municipality, Montenegro). He learned how to read and write from a deacon in Morinj, and that was all of the schooling he attended throughout his life. At a young age in order to make a living and help out his family he became a sailor like most of the men from this region.\n\nFor more than ten years he was serving on different merchant ships locally and around Europe. During these voyages he managed to save money and gain trading knowledge so he decided to settle down and become a merchant in Trieste. Considering that there was certain amount of merchants from Boka Kotorska living in Trieste as well as other connections he established through his sailing years he found his place quickly in that environment and became quite successful in his business. He even managed to financially help the planning of the First Serbian Uprising through friendship and connections he had with Dositej Obradović and other Serbian patriots that either lived there or visited Trieste.\n\nIn 1809, after the third occupation of Trieste by French during Napoleonic wars, most of Tomo's possession had been overtaken. Just around that time The First Serbian Uprising was getting more successful and also more popular between the Serbian people that lived abroad, so Tomo decided to leave Trieste with his wife and son and join the uprising. After arriving to Serbia he had been accepted by Karađorđe to be his advisor and artillery specialist since he already had some artillery experience while sailing on armed merchant vessels. After the Treaty of Bucharest was reached between Russians and Ottomans, few of the Russian gunsmiths assigned to Karađorđe by Russian Military left Serbia. Tomo offered himself to take over the job which Karađorđe gladly accepted. In 1813 Tomo created two cannons of the same size consisting of five pieces each weighing 35 kilograms which made them extremely useful because of the mobility. That same year Tomo was sent to defend Deligrad as a Head of Artillery, where the Serbian army, consisting of 30,000 troops defeated the Turkish army consisting of 55,000 troops. Under his command Artillery made a great effort in this battle by good positioning and frequent relocation of the cannons which caught the opposing army unprepared in multiple occasions.\n\nAfter the failure of the uprising, Tomo moved back to Trieste where he stayed until 1815. On Karađorđe's recommendation he moved to the Russian Empire, to the town of Akkerman in Bessarabia. While in exile Tomo wrote two books, \"Umotvorine\" (published posthumously in 1847) and \"Istorija Slavenskog Primorja\". The former was reprinted in 2004 by a relative, Jeremije Milinović, while the latter was lost and was never published.\n\nTomo Milinović died in exile in 1846. Without being aware of that fact one of his great friends Sima Milutinović made efforts and got approval from the Serbian government at the time to bring Tomo back to Serbia, which was Tomo's great wish, but unfortunately it was too late.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "303222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303222", "title": "Václav Klaus", "text": "Václav Klaus\n\nVáclav Klaus (; born 19 June 1941) is a Czech economist and politician who served as the second President of the Czech Republic from 2003 to 2013. He also served as the second and last Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, federal subject of the Czech and Slovak Federative Republic, from July 1992 until the dissolution of Czechoslovakia in January 1993, and as the first Prime Minister of the newly-independent Czech Republic from 1993 to 1998.\n\nKlaus was the principal co-founder of the Civic Democratic Party (ODS), a Czech free-market Eurosceptic political party. His presidency was marked by numerous controversies over his strong views on a number of issues, from global warming denial to euroscepticism, and a wide-ranging amnesty declared in his last months of office, triggering his indictment by the Czech Senate on charges of high treason. His political views are often described as \"Klausism\".\n\nKlaus was born in Prague during the Nazi occupation, and grew up in the large, then middle-class neighbourhood of Vinohrady. According to Klaus, he helped build barricades during the Prague uprising in May 1945, aged 4.\n\nKlaus studied Economics of Foreign Trade at the University of Economics, Prague, graduating in 1963. He also spent some time at universities in Italy (1966) and at Cornell University in the United States in 1969. He then pursued a postgraduate academic career at the State Institute of Economics of the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, which, according to his autobiography, he was forced to leave in 1970.\n\nSoon after that he was employed by the Czechoslovak State Bank, where he held various staff positions from 1971 to 1986, as well as working abroad in various Soviet-aligned countries, usually considered a privilege at the time. In 1987, Klaus joined the Institute for Prognostics of the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences.\n\nKlaus entered Czechoslovak politics during the Velvet Revolution in 1989, during the second week of the political uprising, when he offered his services as an economic advisor to the Civic Forum, whose aim was to unify the anti-government movements in Czechoslovakia and overthrow the Communist regime. Klaus became Czechoslovakia's Minister of Finance in the \"government of national unity\" on 10 December 1989.\n\nIn October 1990, Klaus was elected chairman of the Civic Forum. Two months later, he led supporters of a free-market economy into the break-away Civic Democratic Party (ODS). Following a period of strong economic growth, Klaus led ODS to victory in Czech legislative elections on 5–6 June 1992. ODS emerged as by far the largest party, with 76 seats, and Klaus thus became the first democratically elected Prime Minister of the Czech Republic.\n\nODS also performed strongly in the Czechoslovak federal election held the same day, becoming the largest party with 48 seats, double the number of the runners-up, the Movement for a Democratic Slovakia (HZDS). Klaus was thus poised to become the first prime minister since before World War II with no past ties to Communism. The first postwar prime minister, Social Democrat Zdeněk Fierlinger, was openly pro-Communist (and would lead his party into a merger with the Communists). The incumbent prime minister, Marián Čalfa, had been a Communist until 1990.\n\nHowever, ODS would still have needed support from HZDS to form a government. When he began coalition talks with HZDS leader Vladimir Meciar, Klaus told Meciar that unless HZDS was willing to agree to a tighter federation, the only alternative was for the Czechs and Slovaks to form independent nations. As Meciar was unwilling to agree to the former option, on 23 July the two leaders agreed to dissolve Czechoslovakia, to take effect on 1 January 1993.\n\nKlaus led ODS to another victory in the 1996 legislative elections, and remained Prime Minister in a minority government. However, towards the end of 1997 he was forced to step down as Prime Minister by opponents in his party in connection with accusations of funding irregularities in the ODS.\n\nDuring his term as Prime Minister, President Václav Havel heavily criticized Klaus' policy of voucher privatization of previously state-owned enterprises. The policy was designed to bring about a speedy transition from command economy to free-market economy, but Havel cited the voucher privatization as a cause of the country's subsequent economic problems.\n\nAt a party congress in late 1997, Klaus was re-elected as chairman of ODS by 227 votes to 72 votes. The defeated faction subsequently left ODS, and in early 1998 established a new party, the Freedom Union (), with President Havel's support.\n\nODS finished second in early elections in 1998, behind the Czech Social Democratic Party (ČSSD). Either party could have formed a majority with the support of other parties, but Freedom Union chairman Jan Ruml, despite his animosity to Klaus, refused to support ČSSD. Instead, Klaus negotiated the \"Opposition Agreement\" () with ČSSD chairman Miloš Zeman, his long-time political adversary. During the following legislative period, ODS allowed Zeman's ČSSD to rule with a minority government, in exchange for a number of parliamentary posts, including the post of the Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies, occupied by Klaus himself. The Opposition Agreement led to public demonstrations, particularly against an attempt to regulate Czech Television. This led Zeman to announce that he would not stand again for the post of Prime Minister.\n\nIn the elections of June 2002, ODS was again defeated by ČSSD under their new leader Vladimír Špidla, who had previously opposed the Opposition Agreement, and instead formed a coalition with centrist parties. After a long period of deliberation, and even though ODS won Senate elections in October 2002, Klaus did not run for re-election as party chairman at the December ODS congress. However, he was made honorary chairman of the party. Against his declared preference, Klaus was succeeded as party leader by Mirek Topolánek.\n\nHaving lost two general elections in a row, Klaus announced his intention to step down from the leadership and run for President to succeed his political opponent Václav Havel. The governing coalition was unable to agree on a common candidate to oppose him.\n\nKlaus was elected President of the Czech Republic on 28 February 2003, in the third round of the election, in which both chambers vote together at a joint session of the Parliament by secret ballot between the two top candidates. He won with a majority of 142 votes out of 281. It was widely reported that Klaus won due to the support of Communist Members of Parliament, support which his opponent, Jan Sokol, had publicly refused to accept. Klaus denied that he owed the Communists any debt for his election.\n\nAlthough Klaus regularly criticized Václav Havel for using his Presidential Veto powers to block laws and promised restraint, he used his veto more frequently than Havel. He vetoed the Anti-Discrimination Law passed by parliament in 2008, describing it as a dangerous threat to personal freedoms. He also vetoed a bill implementing the European Union's Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation, and Restriction of Chemicals policy, saying it was a burden for private businesses.\n\nKlaus' euroscepticism, alongside his scepticism of the role of humans in climate change, formed the cornerstones of his policy as President. He expressed the opinion that accession to the European Union would mean a significant reduction of Czech sovereignty, and did not endorse either side in the 2003 accession referendum, in which 77% voted yes.\n\nKlaus' eurosceptic activism has consisted of numerous articles and speeches, in which he described alleged gradual loss of sovereignty for member states in favour of the EU. He promoted the publication of a text by the Irish Eurosceptic Anthony Coughlan. In 2005 Klaus called for the EU to be \"scrapped\" and replaced by a free trade area to be called the \"Organisation of European States\". He also claimed that the EU as an institution undermines freedom, calling the EU \"as big a threat to freedom as the Soviet Union was\". In 2005 he remarked to a group of visiting politicians from the United States that the EU was a \"failed and bankrupt entity\".\nIn November 2008, during a stay in Ireland after a state visit, Klaus held a joint press conference with Declan Ganley, head of Libertas, which was at that time campaigning for a \"no\" vote in a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty. Members of the Irish government called this an \"inappropriate intervention\", and \"unusual and disappointing\".\n\nOn 5 December 2008, members of the Conference of Presidents of the European Parliament visited the Czech Republic prior to the start of the Czech presidency of the European Union. They were invited by Václav Klaus to meet him at Prague Castle. Daniel Cohn-Bendit, chairman of Green Group, brought a European flag and presented it to Klaus. Cohn-Bendit also said that he \"did not care about Klaus' opinions on the Lisbon Treaty, that Klaus would simply have to sign it\". This was criticised by some Czech commentators as \"undue interference in Czech affairs\".\n\nAt the same meeting, Irish MEP Brian Crowley told Klaus that the Irish people wanted ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon and were \"insulted\" by Klaus' association with Declan Ganley and Libertas. Klaus responded that \"the biggest insult to the Irish people is not to accept the results of the Irish referendum\". Crowley replied, \"You will not tell me what the Irish think. As an Irishman, I know it best\". British Eurosceptic journalist Christopher Booker wrote that the meeting \"confirms the inability of the Euro-elite to accept that anyone holds views different from their own\".\n\nOn 19 February 2009, Klaus made a speech to the European Parliament where he criticized what he perceived as the European Union's lack of democracy, continuing integration and economic policies:\n\nThe present decision-making system of the European Union is different from a classic parliamentary democracy, tested and proven by history. In a normal parliamentary system, part of the MPs support the government and part support the opposition. In the European Parliament, this arrangement has been missing. Here, only one single alternative is being promoted, and those who dare think about a different option are labelled as enemies of European integration... There is also a great distance (not only in a geographical sense) between citizens and Union representatives, which is much greater than is the case inside the member countries. This distance is often described as the democratic deficit, the loss of democratic accountability, the decision-making of the unelected – but selected – ones, as bureaucratisation of decision-making etc. The proposals to change the current state of affairs – included in the rejected European Constitution or in the not much different Lisbon Treaty – would make this defect even worse. Since there is no European demos – and no European nation – this defect cannot be solved by strengthening the role of the European Parliament, either.\n\nAfter this point was made, a number of MEPs walked out of the chamber. Klaus continued:\n\nI fear that the attempts to speed up and deepen integration and to move decisions about the lives of the citizens of the member countries up to the European level can have effects that will endanger all the positive things achieved in Europe in the last half a century... Let us not allow a situation where the citizens of member countries would live their lives with a resigned feeling that the EU project is not their own; that it is developing differently than they would wish, that they are only forced to accept it. We would very easily and very soon slip back to the times that we hoped belonged to history.\n\nKlaus was a frequent critic of centrally implemented economic policies in the European Union, and of the adoption of the Euro as the common currency of the eurozone countries. Around the 10th anniversary of the euro in 2008 he wrote in the \"Financial Times\" that \"in practice, the existence of the euro has shown that forcing an economically disparate Europe into a homogeneous entity through a political decision is political engineering par excellence, far from beneficial for all countries concerned\".\n\nKlaus long refused to sign the Treaty of Lisbon, and was the last head of state in the EU to provide a signature. Other European leaders ignored his reluctance, stating that they would not consent to being \"held hostage\" by the Czech President. The Czech Prime Minister Jan Fischer, however, said that Klaus would eventually sign the treaty, saying: \"There is no reason for anxiety in Europe. The question is not Yes or No, it is only when\".\n\nIn November 2008 Klaus said in an interview with the Czech Television that if he was the only person standing in the way of a treaty that all others agreed upon, he would not block it. Václav Klaus signed the Treaty of Lisbon on 3 November 2009. However he never signed the addition to the Lisbon Treaty, the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF), which was eventually signed by his successor as president, Miloš Zeman.\n\nKlaus has sought cooperation with Russia on issues including energy policy.\n\nIn the 1990s, Klaus promoted renewed oil and gas agreements between the Czech Republic and Russia, and opposed Czech attempts to develop other energy sources, including the construction of a pipeline between the Czech Republic and Germany. According to former Czech secret service directors, he was warned by the secret service of Russian organized crime spreading into the Czech economy. In one scheme, oil was imported to the Czech Republic as heating oil and re-sold as diesel, creating huge profits for Russian businessman Semion Mogilevich, alleged to be a key figure in the Russian mafia.\n\nIn March 2006, Klaus was described by \"The Economist\" as one of Russian President Vladimir Putin's \"warmest admirers abroad\". Klaus was awarded the 2007 Pushkin Medal by Putin for the promotion of Russian culture. It was suggested that this was partly due to his use of the Russian language when speaking to Putin and Russian diplomats. Klaus said that in relations with Russia there have been \"challenges and successes, tremendous successes\".\n\nOn the other hand, in a May 2009 interview with \"Lidové noviny\", Klaus said that Russia was not a threat, but was still a big, strong and ambitious country, of which the Czech authorities should beware more than countries like Estonia and Lithuania should.\n\nKlaus criticised NATO bombing of Yugoslavia during the Kosovo War, and was subsequently a frequent critic of the unilateral Kosovo declaration of independence. During a visit to Slovakia in March 2008, Klaus stated his disagreement with the argument that Kosovo was an exceptional case, and suggested that the precedent set by the recognition of Kosovo would open a \"Pandora's box\" in Europe, leading to disastrous consequences. He compared the situation of Serbia to the 1938 Munich Agreement. When Serbia recalled its ambassador in protest at the Czech government's recognition of Kosovo, Klaus invited the Serbian ambassador to Prague Castle for a friendly farewell. During a visit to Serbia in January 2011, Klaus stated that as long as he was President the Czech Republic would not appoint an ambassador to Kosovo.\n\nUnlike previous Czech presidential elections, the election of 2008 was conducted using on the record voting rather than a secret ballot. This change was demanded by several Czech political parties after the previous elections in 2003, but opposed by Klaus' ODS, which, having strengthened since 2003, had a comfortable majority in the Senate on its own, and only needed to secure a few votes in the House for the third round.\n\nKlaus' opponent was the former émigré, naturalized United States citizen and University of Michigan economics professor Jan Švejnar. He was nominated by the Green Party as a pro-EU moderate candidate, and also gained the support of the leading opposition Social Democratic Party, a small number of deputies and senators of KDU-ČSL and some independent Senators. The first ballot on 8–9 February 2008 resulted in no winner. Švejnar won the Chamber of Deputies, but Klaus led in the assembly as a whole and only just failed to achieve the required majority.\n\nThe second ballot on 15 February 2008 included a new candidate MEP Jana Bobošíková, nominated by the Communist Party. However, without any further support, she withdrew her candidacy before the election, and the second round ended similarly to the previous one, with Klaus remaining on 141 votes. Therefore, in the third round, where only a simple majority of all legislators present from both houses was required, Klaus won by one vote, with Švejnar receiving 111 votes, and the 29 Communists voting for neither.\n\nKlaus's first term as President concluded on 7 March 2008, and he took his oath for the second term on the same day so as to avoid an interim without a president and allow Parliament to come to a joint session earlier. He therefore lost the day of overlap, meaning his second term ended on 6 March 2013.\n\nVáclav Klaus resigned as Honorary Chairman of ODS at the party congress on 6 December 2008. The following day his ally Pavel Bém, the Mayor of Prague, lost a vote for the post of ODS chairman against Prime Minister Mirek Topolánek, by 284 votes to 162.\n\nIn April 2011, Klaus was seen taking a pen during a state visit to Chile. The alleged theft, caught on television cameras, was widely reported around the world. According to Klaus, the incident was exaggerated, as official pens are normally free to be taken by official visitors, including in this case.\n\nA spokeswoman for Chilean President Sebastián Piñera said the Chilean President's guests were free to take the pens from meetings.\n\nIn July 2011, President Klaus visited Canberra, Australia. The visit was sponsored by the conservative Australian think tank, the Centre for Independent Studies, and so was not afforded the diplomatic protocol of an official visit. While in Canberra Klaus was invited to an interview with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation in their Parliament House studios. On his arrival Klaus was requested to undergo the standard security clearance procedures required for normal members of the public; ABC staff tried to convince security staff to allow the President to bypass security but they refused, and so Klaus left the building.\n\nKlaus stated that it was not an issue of his passing through the electronic security system, but rather his treatment by the officials, as nobody had been there to meet him when he and his entourage arrived. After waiting for ten minutes in front of the building, a worker of the ABC Television invited him in, where he was left \"among perhaps as many as hundred school children\". After another few minutes he found out that the whole group was waiting for a security clearance. Klaus refused to waste more time waiting in line behind the school children and offered ABC Television to conduct the interview in his hotel. This offer was declined by ABC as they were already set up for the interview in the Parliament House studio.\n\nKlaus' approach was supported by the head of protocol in the Office of the Czech President, Jindřich Forejt, who described the incident as \"incredible\". Former spokesman for President Václav Havel, Ladislav Špaček, said that \"it is absolutely out of place to check a head of state; it is disrespectful. I am not at all surprised that Klaus turned around and went off. He should not be there trying to argue with some operative that he is not a terrorist\".\n\nKlaus' aide said that \"The prepared Prague gay carnival is a pressure action and a political demonstration of a world with deformed values,\" describing homosexuals as \"deviants.\" The comments attracted widespread criticism from Czech politicians across the political spectrum, as well as from thirteen ambassadors. Klaus defended his aide's comments. Criticizing \"homosexualism\", he said that homosexuality is something to be tolerated but not celebrated.\n\nOn 28 September 2012, Klaus was attacked during a bridge opening ceremony in Chrastava. While Klaus was walking through a thick crowd, shaking hands and chatting with bystanders, a 26-year-old man, Pavel Vondrouš, approached him and pressed an airsoft gun against the President's right arm, pulling the trigger seven times before disappearing into the crowd. Klaus was taken to Prague's Střešovice hospital with what was described as \"minor bruising\" for treatment before being discharged. The attacker, a supporter of the Communist Party, was detained after several minutes, but later released. Before he was taken into custody, he told journalists that he had done it \"because politicians were blind and deaf to the people's despair\". Vondrouš received a suspended sentence in June 2013.\n\nThe lack of action from the President's bodyguards was heavily criticised, and the head of the President's security resigned after the incident.\n\nOn 1 January 2013, using his constitutional powers, Klaus announced an amnesty to mark the 20th anniversary of the Czech Republic's independence. The amnesty took effect on 2 January and released all prisoners sentenced to one year or less whose sentences had not been served, and all prisoners over 75 years of age sentenced to ten years or less whose sentences had not been served, as well as cancelling all court proceedings which had been ongoing for longer than eight years. By 11 January 6,318 prisoners had been released due to the amnesty, with other cases pending the outcome of court appeals. In addition, dozens of high-profile long-running corruption trials ended due to the amnesty, causing the greatest public anger.\n\nThe extent of the amnesty was widely criticized in the Czech Republic, with the opposition demanding a vote of no confidence against Prime Minister Petr Nečas, who countersigned it. Meanwhile, a comparison was drawn with actions taken by Klaus's predecessor, Václav Havel, who ordered three amnesties while Czechoslovak and later Czech president (1989–2003). Havel's first amnesty of January 1990 was the largest post-war amnesty, freeing around 23,000 people, two thirds of the total prison population of 31,000, on the grounds that they had been convicted by a communist court system.\n\nThe amnesty sparked a public petition to persuade the Senate of the Czech Republic to charge President Klaus with high treason before the Constitutional court, effectively impeaching him. Within 24 hours of its launch, it had accumulated 24,500 signatures, and by the beginning of February 2013, the petition had been signed by more than 64,000 people. On 4 March 2013, the Senate voted to charge Klaus with high treason, based on five cases in which he was alleged to have violated the constitution, including the amnesty, his refusal to sign the European stability mechanism and his alleged procrastination in nominating judges to the Constitutional Court. The following day, on 5 March, the Constitutional Court rejected a previous motion by a smaller group of senators to cancel the New Year amnesty, thereby removing the issue of the amnesty from the constitutional suit. Given that the sanction for treason committed by the Czech President is the loss of office, and Klaus' term was due to end the following day, the court's verdict was a mere formality, but a guilty verdict would make Klaus ineligible for a third term of office in 2018. Klaus described the move as an attempt by his political opponents to tarnish his presidency.\n\nAfter his presidency ended in 2013, Klaus was named a Distinguished Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. His fellowship was terminated in September 2014, due to his views on the Ukrainian crisis, his hostility to homosexuality, and support for European far-right parties.\n\nOn 9 September 2014, in an interview with Czech radio station Radio Impulse, Klaus said that Ukraine is an artificially created state and that the Russian intervention in the country was part of a civil war. He continued by describing Maidan as an \"artificial event created by the West and the United States\", in which Russia was forced to intervene. He added that in his opinion, Ukraine lacks the strong ties to keep the country together.\n\nIn the 2018 presidential election, Klaus endorsed his former political opponent Miloš Zeman.\n\nIn 1995, while Prime Minister, Klaus was awarded the title of Professor of Finance by his alma mater, the University of Economics, Prague. Since then Klaus has occasionally given economics seminars at the university, focused on his free-market views.\n\nHis defining feature as an economist since 1990 has been his enthusiasm for free market economics, as exemplified by Friedrich Hayek and Milton Friedman. According to Klaus, legislation and institutions cannot be created before economic transformation, they have to go hand in hand.\n\nSince 1990, Václav Klaus has received nearly 50 honorary degrees, including from Universidad Francisco Marroquín, and published more than 20 books on various social, political, and economic topics. Klaus is a member of the Mont Pelerin Society. He has published articles in the libertarian \"Cato Journal\". On 28 May 2008, Klaus gave the keynote address at an annual dinner hosted by the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a free market advocacy group in Washington, D.C., and received its Julian L. Simon Memorial Award.\n\nKlaus was elected to become a foreign member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2009.\n\nKlaus is a vocal critic of the view of scientists that global warming is anthropogenic. He has described the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change as \"a group of politicized scientists with one-sided opinions and one-sided assignments\", and has claimed that some other top-level politicians do not publicly express their doubts about global warming being anthropogenic because \"a whip of political correctness strangles their voices\".\n\nAddressing the Cato Institute in Washington in March 2007, Klaus expressed the view that \"Environmentalism should belong in the social sciences, along with other \"isms\" such as communism, feminism, and liberalism\", and compared environmentalism to a religion, or a \"modern counterpart of communism that seeks to change peoples' habits and economic systems\".\n\nIn a June 2007 article in \"The Financial Times\", Klaus described environmentalism as \"the biggest threat to freedom, democracy, a market economy and prosperity\". He said that current political and scientific debates on environment issues were designed to suppress freedom and democracy, and asked readers to oppose the term \"scientific consensus\", adding that \"it is always achieved only by a loud minority, never by a silent majority\". In an online Q&A session following the article he wrote \"Environmentalism, not preservation of nature (and of environment), is a leftist ideology... Environmentalism is indeed a vehicle for bringing us socialist government at the global level. Again, my life in communism has made me oversensitive in this respect\". He reiterated these statements at a showing of Martin Durkin's \"The Great Global Warming Swindle\" organised by his think tank CEP in June 2007.\n\nIn November 2007, on BBC World's \"HARDtalk\", Klaus called the interviewer \"absolutely arrogant\" for saying that a scientific consensus had been reached on climate change that included most of the world. He added that he was \"absolutely certain\" that in 30 years people would look back and be grateful to him for his stand on the issue.\n\nAt the September 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference, Klaus restated his rejection of global warming, calling for a second IPCC to be established to produce competing reports, and for countries to be left alone to set their priorities and prepare their own plans for the problem.\n\nIn 2007, Klaus published a book entitled \"Modrá, nikoli zelená planeta\" (literally: \"Blue planet – not green\"), which has been translated into various languages. It was published in English under the title \"Blue Planet in Green Shackles\". The book claims that \"the theory of global warming and the hypothesis on its causes, which has spread around massively nowadays, may be a bad theory, it may also be a valueless theory, but in any case it is a very dangerous theory\".\n\nAt the September 2009 UN Climate Change Conference, Klaus again spoke against the conference, calling the gathering \"propagandistic\" and \"undignified\".\n\nOn 26 July 2011 at the National Press Club Address, Klaus described global warming as \"a communist conspiracy\". On 21 May 2012 Klaus addressed the climate sceptic Heartland Institute's Seventh International Conference on Climate Change (ICCC-7). In August 2012 he delivered the Magistral Lecture to the World Federation of Scientists in Erice, Sicily.\n\nVáclav Klaus is married to Livia Klausová, a Slovak economist. They have two sons, Václav, also an ODS politician, and Jan, an economist, and five grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "4800502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4800502", "title": "William Stryker", "text": "William Stryker\n\nColonel William \"Bill\" Stryker, M.D. is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is usually depicted as an enemy of the X-Men. In the \"X-Men\" film series, the character has been portrayed by Brian Cox, Danny Huston and Josh Helman. In 2009, William Stryker was ranked by IGN's as the 70th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.\n\nCreated by writer Chris Claremont and artist Brent Anderson, he first appeared in the 1982 graphic novel \"\". His character was modeled after Jerry Falwell.\n\nWilliam Stryker is a religious fanatic, with a military history which may have involved the Weapon X project (the same project that results in Wolverine being given the adamantium skeleton). Stryker is characterized by his unequivocal hatred of mutants. So strong is this hatred that Stryker goes so far as to kill his own wife and mutant son Jason Stryker immediately after his son's birth in Nevada. Crazed and outraged, Stryker then makes a suicide attempt. As time passes, he is convinced that Satan has a plot to destroy humankind by corrupting prenatal souls, the result of this corruption being mutants. Additionally, Stryker eventually comes to see the birth of his mutant son as a sign from God, directing him to his true calling: ensuring the eradication of all mutants.\n\nDriven by this newfound conviction, Stryker then becomes a popular but controversial preacher and televangelist. While his followers, including a secret paramilitary group called the Purifiers, commit hate crimes against mutants, Stryker arranges to have Professor Xavier kidnapped, brainwashed, and attached to a machine that, using his brainpower, will kill all living mutants. In order to stop this scheme, the X-Men are forced to join forces with their nemesis Magneto. When the extent of his bigotry becomes obvious—he attempts to kill Kitty Pryde in front of a television audience—one of his own security guards shoots and arrests him.\n\nWilliam Stryker, who made no appearances until this storyline in \"X-Treme X-Men\", was assumed forgotten. This time, it was revealed that Stryker had been serving a prison sentence as a result of the events of his previous actions. Lady Deathstrike, a character with ties to the X-Men's Wolverine, makes her way onto the airplane where Stryker was being transferred. Once there, she kills his guards and rescues him, then it is revealed that the two are lovers, and he immediately begins a crusade against the X-Men, focusing on Wolverine, Cannonball, the X-Treme X-Men team, and Shadowcat, against whom he apparently keeps a grudge.\n\nStryker sent a group of his followers against several of the X-Men, and kidnapped Kitty Pryde. Along the way, Kitty convinced Stryker that mutants were not an abomination, and he seemed to turn over a new leaf.\n\nHowever, he returns as a major player at the start of the 2005 \"Decimation\" storyline, following the \"House of M\" storyline, in which he deemed the sudden massive reduction in number of the mutant population a sign of God, saying \"He made the first step and now we have to take the next\", basically rallying for genocide on TV. He was featured mostly in \"New X-Men\" as the main villain, but also appeared in other comics set during this time frame. With the help of Icarus, one of the Xavier Institute's students, he caused a bus to explode, killing about 1/4 of the de-powered students from the academy. Then he planned the assassination of Wallflower, ordering one of his snipers to shoot her in the head. Next he tried to kill Dust, though it was actually X-23. The deaths of Wallflower and Dust were Stryker's prime objectives, as he had been informed by Nimrod that both girls would destroy his army. Finally he attacked the institute with his Purifiers, killing Quill, leaving Onyxx and Cannonball critically wounded, and hurting Bishop, Emma Frost, and other students. After Stryker's Purifiers were defeated, he was killed by the enraged boyfriend of Wallflower, Elixir, who causes catastrophic damage to Stryker's brain via the rapid growth of a tumor.\n\nBastion resurrected Stryker with a Technarch, to join Bastion's new Purifiers. Bastion revealed that as the founder of the Purifiers, Stryker has the second highest number of mutant kills. He is surpassed only by Bolivar Trask, the founder of the Sentinels.\n\nBastion charges Stryker to locate Hope Summers and Cable, following their return from the future in the Second Coming event. His Purifiers, in conjunction with Cameron Hodge's Right footsoldiers, engage the X-Men and New Mutants. The Purifiers take out Magik with a weaponized ritual, Illyana is abducted by demons through one of her own stepping discs. They also disrupt Nightcrawler's teleportation with a sonic attack, leading to disorientation. The battle culminates when Wolverine orders Archangel to take out Stryker, shifting into the \"Death\" persona and slices Stryker in half at the waist with his wings.\n\nIt is later revealed that Stryker did not actually murder his son Jason, and had in fact raised the boy in secret, alleviating his apparently debilitating mutation with the help of A.I.M. After his father's death, Jason continues his work by joining the Purifiers.\n\nDuring the \"Weapons of Mutant Destruction\" storyline, William Stryker somehow returned from the dead and has formed the latest incarnation of the Weapon X Project with the help of some humans that he swayed to his side like Doctor Alba. He sets his sites on eradicating mutantkind by having his scientists work on Adamantium cyborgs. In order to refine these Adamantium cyborgs, William Stryker has the Weapon X Project target Old Man Logan (an elderly Wolverine from an alternate reality), Sabretooth, Warpath, Domino, and Lady Deathstrike because they have special abilities that the Weapon X are interested in having. After the Adamantium cyborgs apprehend Lady Deathstrike and harvest her genetic material for the Weapon X Project to use for their Adamantium Cyborgs, Old Man Logan and Sabretooth evade the Adamantium cyborgs as William Stryker and the rest of the Weapon X Project were able to get their tissue samples. In addition, William Stryker also has the Adamantium cyborgs target Amadeus Cho's Hulk form for his blood sample. When Amadeus Cho's Hulk form and the mutants on Old Man Logan's side raid the Weapon X Project's base and frees Lady Deathstrike and Warpath, William Stryker sets the base to self-destruct where its employees were killed in the process. It was also shown that William Stryker was starting a project that involves the blood from Amadeus Cho's Hulk form that is part of the ingredients for the Mutant/Hulk hybrids. Following some further investigations, Old Man Logan's group and Amadeus Cho's Hulk raided the Weapon X Project's central command. Amadeus Cho's Hulk form did not want Old Man Logan, Sabretooth, and Lady Deathstrike to kill him. As Old Man Logan, Sabretooth, and Lady Deathstrike disputed with Amadeus Cho's Hulk form, William Stryker took the opportunity to get away as they soon join the fight against Bobby Andrews in his mutated H-Beta form. As Hulk fights H-Beta and then the H-Alpha after it killed H-Beta, William Stryker and Doctor Alba escaped in their helicopter upon them losing control of H-Alpha.\n\nIn the alternate timeline seen in the 2005 \"Age of Apocalypse\" storyline, William Stryker's father was raised by a preacher who cared for him and other children from their town after most were slaughtered by mutants. However, in a horrible stroke of irony his father was later killed by other surviving humans. As such he had to live in hiding, learning to depend on the kindness of both humans and mutants, making this Stryker a far more tolerant person than his 616 universe counterpart. He takes the guise of Prophet and begins to avenge humanity along with X-Terminated. He breaks into the apartment of Krakken, an engineer who built ovens to incinerate humans, and murders him but not his family. Before killing Krakken, Prophet reveals he previously destroyed one of Krakken's eyes and then finished the job by cutting off his head. William studies the Sentinels and mutants hunt of humans in order to refine his skills in taking them down. He says he's learned their weaknesses and despite their powers, his will and skill is more powerful. With ease, Prophet made his way up an attacking Sentinel, cuts into its head and flips away as the robot is destroyed from the damage. He says his talents were obtained by watching the slaughter of thousands and his victories honor them. As Weapon X leads his final attack on the last surviving City of Men, Prophet allows them to escape by throwing an explosive at Weapon X. He then leads his team out of the city. Once clear the city is destroyed by Weapon X.\n\nThe Ultimate Marvel iteration of the character is William Stryker Sr., an Admiral, the leader of the anti-mutant conspiracy within the U.S. Government, and also linked to the creation of the Ultimate version of the Legacy Virus. Stryker Sr. can also be seen in flashbacks under the pressure of God to kill mutants, another trait he passed on to his son William Stryker Jr.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48218590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48218590", "title": "Yang Jingren", "text": "Yang Jingren\n\nYang Jingren (, Xiao'erjing: ) (1918 – October 19, 2001) was a People's Republic of China politician. A member of the Hui people ethnic group, he was born in Lanzhou, Gansu Province. He was the head of the United Front Work Department from 1982 to 1985.\n"}
