{"id": "44009508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44009508", "title": "AGIR (student organization)", "text": "AGIR (student organization)\n\nAGIR (\"ACT\" or \"REACT\" in English) is an organization of students with a Galician independentist and anticapitalist ideology. It's an organization that has presence in different comarcas of Galiza and is made up only of active students.\n\nAGIR was created by the merge of 4 previous organizations: Independentist Students, the FER, the Galician Antifascist Students Assembly and CAMEM, being the FER, close to Primeira Linha, the most supportive of the merge. The majority of the Independentist Students militants (the largest of the previous organizations) abandoned AGIR due to disagreements with the political line of the new organization. In the 2012 elections to the student representatives in the University of Santiago de Compostela AGIR gained its first seat in the University Council. In 2014 elections AGIR won two seats.\n\nAGIR defends a public education in Galician language, not patriarchal, democratic and of quality. The organization fights against privatization and for an educational plan for Galiza, in Galician language and against sexism in the classroom. The organization is connected to Nós-Unidade Popular and specially to its youth wing, BRIGA.\n\nThe central and basic body of AGIR are the different Committees of each college or secondary school in which they have presence.\n"}
{"id": "10410698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10410698", "title": "Abdul Amir al-Jamri", "text": "Abdul Amir al-Jamri\n\nSheikh Abdul Amir al-Jamri ( ; ; 1 March 1938 – 18 December 2006) was one of the most prominent Shia clerics and opposition leaders in Bahrain. He was also a writer and a poet.\n\nBorn in the village of Bani Jamra, al-Jamri became a Hussaini khatib (Shia preacher) after finishing primary school. At the age of 21, he began his Islamic studies, first in Bahrain and later in the religious institute of Al Najaf, Iraq, where he remained for 11 years. He returned to Bahrain in 1973 and was elected to the newly formed parliament. The parliament was dissolved two years later by the Emir, Isa bin Salman al-Khalifa, after it had rejected the State Security Law. In 1977, al-Jamri was appointed as a judge at the High Religious Court of Bahrain. He held the position until 1988, when he was briefly arrested due to his criticism of the government.\n\nAl-Jamri is most notable for his role during the 1990s uprising in Bahrain. As the lead figure of the opposition, he succeeded in bringing Islamists, liberals and leftists together against the monarchy. The events began in the form of petitions in 1992 and 1994 calling for restoration of the parliament and reinstatement of the suspended constitution, but led to widespread violence and the death of 40 individuals. Due to his civil rights activity, al-Jamri was imprisoned between April and September 1995, before being arrested again in January 1996 and imprisoned until July 1999, which was followed by a year and a half of house arrest.\n\nIn January 2001, al-Jamri was released along with other opposition activists. The new emir, Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, proposed a reform plan, the National Action Charter of Bahrain, which was accepted by the opposition and later gained widespread popular support. A year later, Hamad issued a new constitution which al-Jamri said fell short of the opposition's demands. Disappointed, al-Jamri soon fell ill, suffering from a series of strokes and eventually dying of multiple organ failure.\n\nAl-Jamri was born in the village of Bani Jamra, Northern Bahrain, on 1 March 1938. His full name was Abdul Amir bin Mansoor bin Mohammed bin Abdulrasool bin Mohammed bin Hussain bin Ebrahim bin Makki bin Suleiman bin Makki al-Jamri al-Bahrani (), although he was also known by his kunya Abu Jameel (). His father – known as Mansoor or Nasir – was a Quranic teacher, owner of a textile workshop, and head of a \"devout Shia family\". Al-Jamri's father taught him the Quran and basics of Islamic prayer when he was 6, although died four years later. Al-Jamri finished formal education at Budaiya primary school when he was 12, before becoming a Hussaini khatib (Shia preacher), learning from other well-known khatibs in his village such as his cousin, the renovator Shia khatib Mulla Atiya al-Jamri. He also obtained a job in the Manama Souq, working there until 1962.\n\nIn 1957, al-Jamri married his cousin's granddaughter, Zahra' Yousif Atiya al-Jamri, who was 16 at the time. In his book \"The Story of My Life\", al-Jamri devoted a section to speak about his marriage, in which he described it as a happy one and praised his wife for her patience and loyalty. They had 10 children together: 7 sons and 3 daughters. One of their sons is Mansoor Al-Jamri, editor-in-chief of \"Al-Wasat\" newspaper.\n\nIn 1959, al-Jamri began his religious studies in Bahrain. He was taught by Sheikh Abdulla al-Bahrani (died 1961) and Sheikh Baqir al-Asfoor. In 1962, following the death of his mentor, al-Jamri traveled to Iraq to study Islamic theology and law in the religious institute of Al Najaf. Mentored for two years by Ayatollah Mohammad Baqir al-Sadr and Abu al-Qasim al-Khoei, he reached the stage of independent research (Bahth al-kharij; ), the highest level of study in religious seminaries. He also wrote several religious articles which were published in Iraqi newspapers and magazines. In the country, al-Jamri used the pseudonym Abdulla Mansoor Mohammed in order to avoid trouble when passing through customs in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Iraq, where it was believed that the prefix \"Abdul\" should only be used with the name of God. The pseudonym also helped him evade Iraq's Ba'athist regime of Saddam Hussein following an anti-Ba'athist speech which al-Jamri gave in 1970.\nSpending 11 years in Iraq, al-Jamri returned to Bahrain in 1973. Between 1973 and 1981, al-Jamri was a frequent host on Bahrain TV, giving religious talks on Islamic occasions such as Ramadan and Ashura. In 1985, he founded a small hawza in the mosque next to his house.\n\nBahrain became independent from the United Kingdom in 1971 and the Constituent Assembly of 1972 had drafted a new constitution by 1973. Like his study colleague Isa Qassim, al-Jamri initially wanted to complete his religious studies and did not care much about politics. His mentor in Iraq, Mohammad Baqir al-Sadr, issued a binding fatwā for participation in the 1973 parliamentary election. Al-Jamri and five others formed the \"Religious Bloc\" which adopted a wide program including supporting the labor's union and demands, forbidding trade of alcoholic beverages, and separating men and women in education institutes. The bloc also called for prohibiting male doctors from treating female patients (especially in pregnancy) as well as other demands connected to traditional Islamic customs. Al-Jamri was elected to the National Assembly of Bahrain, ranking second behind Isa Qassim.\n\nIn August 1975, the constitution was suspended and the assembly dissolved by the Emir, Isa bin Salman al-Khalifa, after it had rejected the State Security Law. The act – also known as \"the precautionary law\" – was proposed by the British adviser Ian Henderson. It gave police wide powers of arrest and allowed individuals to be held in prison without trial or charge for up to three years (renewable) for suspicion \"that they might be a threat to the state\". Al-Jamri was a member of a foreign relations committee, and an outspoken critic of the State Security Law.\n\nIn the period from 1975 to 2001, the Emir ruled by decree. Human rights activists and opposition leaders made repeated allegations of systematic torture, the arbitrary arrest of thousands, and assassinations, all of which were denied by the authorities. Bahrain's Shia population widely claimed that they were being discriminated against by the government, and that they were being treated as second class citizens.\n\nIn 1977, the government offered al-Jamri the opportunity to serve as a judge at the High Religious Court of Bahrain (Shia branch). Al-Jamri agreed after Abu al-Qasim al-Khoei issued him with a religious permit to do so. The decision was controversial within Bahrain, as many Shia clerics had refused to participate in the government-run judiciary ever since its foundation in the 1920s. Al-Jamri held the position until June 1988, when he was suspended due to his criticism of the government.\n\nFollowing the 1979 Iranian Revolution, and continuing throughout the 1980s, the intensity of Bahrain's political situation sharply increased. Al-Jamri, who was then participating in several petitions, was questioned multiple times and put under strict surveillance by the Security and Intelligence Service. In 1984, the Islamic Enlightenment institution, with which al-Jamri was associated, was closed by the government. The government also closed other places of meeting and prohibited public seminars. Al-Jamry however opened his house for daily meetings, also offering a weekly space for public debates; he continued to do so despite several government attempts to stop him.\n\nIn 1988, the situation came to a head when al-Jamri ignored a final warning by the government. In June, he was dismissed from his job as a judge. In August, his son-in-law Abduljalil Khalil was arrested and sentenced to seven years imprisonment. In September, his elder son Mohamed Jameel was arrested and sentenced to ten years. The authorities then ordered al-Jamri's arrest; on 6 September, Colonel Adel Flaifel and a number of security forces arrived at his house. Al-Jamri's wife rushed to the nearby mosque and called people from its speakers. Amid neighbors' protests, security forces decided to let al-Jarmi go after only an hour's detention.\n\nThere was a time of civil strife in Bahrain from 1994 to 1999, during which leftists, liberals and Islamists joined forces to demand democratic reforms. The uprising was the largest in the country's history, and included widespread demonstrations and violence.\n\nIn 1992, a petition was signed by 280 leading figures in civil society, demanding the restoration of parliament, reinstatement of the suspended constitution, the release of political prisoners, and the start of a reconciliation dialogue. The government rejected their demands and instead set up a thirty-member appointed \"Shura council\" assigned with \"commenting\" on government proposed legislation. In 1994, another petition was launched with the same demands, this time open to all citizens. Organizers said that they had collected over 20,000 signatures.\n\nViolence broke out in June 1994 when riot police used tear gas on 1,500 demonstrators who had organized a sit-in in front of the Ministry of Labor. The protesters were campaigning against the increasing rate of unemployment, which had reached 15 percent. Over the following years, many opposition leaders were arrested and others exiled. Some protesters used Molotov cocktails to attack \"police stations, banks and commercial properties\". Riot police used tear gas and rubber bullets, some of which were fired at the crowd from police helicopters. It was also reported that police used live ammunition in some cases. Overall, about forty people were killed, including several detainees who were in police custody (allegedly due to torture), and at least three policemen.\n\nDuring the uprising, al-Jamri \"rose to prominence\", becoming the lead figure among the opposition, who saw him as \"their father figure and spiritual mentor.\" To the Shia, he was their \"spiritual leader\". He was a \"chief architect\" and a signatory of the 1992 and 1994 petitions. He was also the informal leader of the U.K.-based Bahrain Freedom Movement. Al-Jamri, himself a Shia Islamist, had good relations with secular and liberal opposition forces and united them into \"an effective opposition movement\". Due to his civil rights activity, the pro-democracy cleric was arrested and placed under house arrest for years.\n\nIn 1995, following clashes between security forces and students, the government accused al-Jamri of having links to Iran and seeking to establish an \"Islamic republic\" in Bahrain. Al-Jamri denied the accusations. Nevertheless, on 1 April the government imposed a blockade on al-Jamri's home of Bani Jamra, placing him and 18 members of his family under house arrest. At least one man was killed and 16 others injured during clashes with police. That day became known locally as the Black Saturday. Two weeks later, al-Jamri was transferred to a detention center. Along with other opposition figures he was released on 25 September 1995, following a deal with the government to calm down the situation in return for opening up talks on the restoration of parliament. Tens of thousands of Bahrainis gathered to welcome al-Jamri following his release. He gave a speech in which he promised to stay loyal to the hopes and sufferings of the Bahraini people.\n\nOn 23 October, al-Jamri and other released opposition activists began a 10-day hunger strike in his house to protest what they called the government's failure to fulfill its pledges. Tens of thousands gathered in solidarity with the activists on the final day of the hunger strike (1 November). On 21 January 1996 al-Jamri was detained again along with 7 other opposition leaders, including Abdulwahab Hussain and Hassan Mushaima, following the collapse of the talks. The arrests provoked further unrest. The activists denied the charges of forming a militia group called \"Bahraini Hizbullah\" or receiving support from Iran.\n\nAl-Jamri spent 3 and a half years in prison, during which he allegedly spent the first 9 months in solitary confinement and was closely observed during the remaining period. On 21 February 1999, about three years after his arrest, al-Jamri's trial before the State Security Court began. On 7 July, the court convicted him on charges of \"spying and inciting unrest against the royal family\". Al-Jamri was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment and fined BD5.7 million (US$15 million). British politician George Galloway, Human Rights Watch, International Pen and Amnesty International led campaigns in solidarity with al-Jamri. The latter also named him a prisoner of conscience.\n\nEmir Isa bin Salman died suddenly on 6 March and was succeeded by his eldest son, Hamad bin Isa al Khalifa. The new emir pardoned al-Jamri and released him a day after his conviction (8 July), but placed him under house arrest until 23 January 2001. Before getting pardoned, al-Jamri had to appear on nationaltelevision and read a \"humiliating letter of apology\" to the Emir. Repeated meetings between commissioners of the Emir and al-Jamri were held during the house arrest period. Subsequent days saw the release of further political prisoners, and exiles were allowed to return. On 8 February, al-Jamri and 3 other opposition leaders —Abdulla al-Ghuraifi, Abdulwahab Hussain and Ali Rabea— met with the emir to discuss his reform plans, the National Action Charter of Bahrain.\n\nThe Charter called for the introduction of a constitutional monarchy, an independent judiciary, and a bicameral legislature composed of a lower house of elected representatives and an upper house of appointed legislators. The Charter also granted equal rights between men and women, and recognised all Bahraini citizens as having equal political rights, including the entitlement to elections and political candidacy. In the 8 February meeting, the government promised that \"the new political arrangements will not invalidate the 1973 constitution and that the upper appointed house will be for consultation only.\" The next day, after leading Friday prayer, al-Jamri delivered a famous speech, starting with \"Allah is my witness, I have missed you as much as Jacob missed Joseph\", before Abdulwahab announced that the opposition had decided to accept the reform plan. The National Action Charter was voted on in a referendum on 14 and 15 February, gaining massive popular support (98.4%). In November 2001, the Al Wefaq Shia political society was founded, with al-Jamri being seen as its mentor.\n\nOn 14 February 2002, the Emir introduced the new constitution of 2002, which gave him wide-ranging powers and gave the upper appointed house more powers than the elected lower house, including the right to legislate. The \"honeymoon\" period between the opposition and government was over; al-Jamri stated his disappointment with the new constitution, stating that it fell short of the opposition's demands. \"[T]his is not the type of parliament we had demanded,\" he said.\n\nThen under house arrest, in May 2000 al-Jamri suffered a heart attack. He was taken to the Bahrain Defence Force Hospital, where he underwent surgery. During his stay at the hospital, he was visited by the King and Prime Minister. In May 2002, al-Jamri traveled to Germany for spinal surgery. While undergoing medical checkups, it was discovered he had a thrombus behind his eye, which had developed when he was in prison. Following the surgery he suffered a stroke, also developing kidney problems and a blood infection, soon falling into a coma. He woke from the coma on 30 June, but shortly after suffered a second stroke, resulting in internal bleeding, and incapacitating him for the rest of his life.\n\nOn 27 January 2003, al-Jamri was transferred from Germany to Sultan bin Abdulaziz Humanitarian City in Saudi Arabia, where his medical condition improved slightly. He returned to Bahrain on 12 July and was welcomed by hundreds of his supporters. His medical condition deteriorated again as he suffered from repeated respiratory problems and another stroke, and in the end he lost the ability to speak. In the early morning of 18 December 2006, al-Jamri was rushed by ambulance from his home to Salmaniya Medical Complex, where he was announced dead. The cause of death was heart and kidney failure.\n\nAlthough al-Jamri's death was announced in the morning, the mourning processions only began after the sunset Maghrib prayer. The funeral course was changed several times. Ultimately, it began at 6:00 in Muqsha village before moving along the west side of Budaiya highway to Bani Jamra, where al-Jamri was buried at 10:00. The weather was extremely cold for Bahrain, yet thousands showed up wearing black mourning clothes and carrying black flags. According to a number of \"Al-Wasat\" writers, the funeral was the largest in the modern history of Bahrain.\n\nFollowing the 2002 deterioration of his health, al-Jamri's position as a political and religious leader of Bahrain's Shia opposition was taken over by his lifelong friend, Ayatollah Isa Qassim. Qassim was less revolutionary than al-Jamri, having opposed the 1992 and 1994 petitions, but his views were kept private, in part as a sign of respect for al-Jamri. Al-Jamri's role as leader of the opposition remained empty, as the opposition became fragmented.\n\nAl-Jamri wrote several books and poems (in Arabic). He kept writing poems even when he became bedridden. His books include:\n\nFootnotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "7744534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7744534", "title": "American Coalition of Life Activists", "text": "American Coalition of Life Activists\n\nThe American Coalition of Life Activists (ACLA) was a pro-life advocacy group that was the subject of controversy for its series of Wanted-style posters.\n\nDuring a 1995 meeting, the group unveiled a \"wanted\" poster that listed the names and addresses of a \"Deadly Dozen\" abortion providers. The poster accused them of \"crimes against humanity\" and offered a $5,000 reward for the \"arrest, conviction and revocation of license to practice medicine\" of these physicians. The poster was published in Life Advocate magazine. A second poster targeted a specific person, Dr. Robert Crist, offered a reward for persuading him \"to turn from his child killing,\" and included his name, address, and photo.\n\nIn 1996 it revealed its \"Nuremberg Files\" which included dossiers on abortion providers, politicians, judges, clinic employees and other abortion rights supporters. The ACLA claimed that these dossiers could be used for trials for \"crimes against humanity\" when the nation's laws changed to prohibit abortion. Neal Horsley, an activist, published the information on his website. His website greyed the names of those injured and crossed out the names of those killed by anti-abortion activists.\n\nPlanned Parenthood successfully sued the ACLA. Although the posters and website did not contain any specific threat, the jury awarded $107 million. The ACLA appealed the verdict on First Amendment grounds. A panel of the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals initially overturned the verdict, holding that the activities of the ACLA were protected under the First Amendment because they did not directly threaten harm to the plaintiffs, and because the ACLA's statements were not communicated privately to the plaintiffs. The en banc 9th Circuit reversed the panel<http://news.findlaw.com/hdocs/docs/abortion/ppacla51602opn.pdf>, and held that the ACLA could be held liable in damages because the website made a deliberate threat with the expectation that someone would act on it, unprotected by the First Amendment.\n\nThe information in this article is taken from the statement of facts as set forth in \nPlanned Parenthood of Columbia/Willamette, Inc. v. American Coalition of Life Activists\n"}
{"id": "46604724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46604724", "title": "Battle of Stockton", "text": "Battle of Stockton\n\nThe Battle of Stockton-on-Tees, often referred to as the Battle of Stockton, took place on 10 September 1933 at Market Cross in the High Street of Stockton-on-Tees, County Durham, England. It was a clash between members of the British Union of Fascists (BUF) and anti-fascist demonstrators, including local communists and supporters of the Labour Party. The march was an early attempt by the BUF to rally support in depressed areas, but the anti-fascists protested and drove out the BUF supporters who had been shipped in from other areas.\n\nStockton had been hit hard by the economic recession following the Great Depression. The BUF had made previous attempts to hold meetings in Stockton, but they were frequently heckled or attacked by anti-fascists. It was therefore decided by the BUF to make a show of strength. One reason given as to why Stockton was chosen for the rally was to base the growth of the movement on that of the Nazi Party, which rose from a grassroots movement in small towns that suffered economic hardship. Stockton was a small town, and at the time opposition was weak as there was only one Labour Party MP in Teesside at the time.\n\nThe plan for the rally, however, had been leaked to local trade unions. Although no-one seems to know for certain how the plan was leaked, historian Richard Griffiths has suggested that the leader of the BUF rally, Captain Vincent Collier, was actually a plant working for the Jewish Board of Deuputies and possibly also working for MI5. With neither the Labour or Conservative Parties offering solutions to the problem, locals turned to more radical organisations, with members of the Communist Party of Great Britain, the Independent Labour Party and the National Unemployed Workers' Movement thus decided to set up a \"reception committee\" ready for the arrival.\n\nThe BUF arrived via a convoy of coaches during the afternoon of 10 September 1933, bringing in 200-300 members from Tyneside, Manchester and Lancashire. They parked on the southern side of the River Tees, on the Thornaby-on-Tees side of Victoria Bridge, then part of North Yorkshire. They then went to Stockton High Street, to the Market Cross area and attempted to hold a rally led by Collier. However, they were attacked by up to 2,000-3,000 anti-fascist protesters who had hidden themselves in the side streets around the High Street, who then began heckling and spitting at Collier. Although there was little police presence at the start, with just seven constables on duty across the whole town centre, the police later ordered the BUF to leave the High Street, so they went to Silver Street to protect themselves, but this ended up trapping them. Both sides then armed themselves with staves, sticks and pickaxe handles. The anti-fascists also used various missiles including stones, half-bricks, knuckledusters and potatoes with razor blades inserted into them.\n\nMore police officers arrived to separate the two groups and to escort the BUF back to their coaches, with some BUF members marshalling in Silver Street, a narrow lane linking the High Street to the quayside. However, some BUF stragglers had to out-run the anti-fascists, while other BUF members broke ranks and attacked the hostile crowd. Reports claim that up to 20 members of the BUF were injured. Amongst them was Edmund \"Ned\" Warburton, brother of John Warburton, of Bury, who was hospitalised and later blinded in one eye due to a stone being thrown at him. No arrests were made by the police on the day.\n\nReaction to the event different between the police and press reporting of the battle with: \"The police were naturally keen to demonstrate that they competently and successfully handled a difficult situation, while the press were keen to sell papers and sensationalise the events. While the reality may lie somewhere in the middle of these accounts, local contemporary accounts of the ‘Battle of Stockton’ ardently subscribe to the more violent version in order to demonstrate the local residents’ rejection of fascism and the event itself is remembered as a precursor to the more famous Battle of Cable Street.\"\n\nIn August 2017, an organisation called The Battle of Stockton Campaign (BoS) was founded in order to commemorate the battle, and to make it as well-known as the better-known Battle of Cable Street, a similar event that took place in London three years later. On 9 September 2018, a plaque marking the battle was unveiled at Market Cross by the town's mayor, Eileen Johnson. \nOther speakers at the commemoration were Stockton North MP Alex Cunningham, North-East MEP Jude Kirton-Darling, actress and President of the Spanish Civil War Memorial Trust Marlene Siddaway, convener of Cable Street 80 David Rosenberg and Unison's Claire Williams.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2355715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2355715", "title": "Bologna massacre", "text": "Bologna massacre\n\nThe Bologna massacre () was a terrorist bombing of the Central Station at Bologna, Italy, on the morning of 2 August 1980, which killed 85 people and wounded more than 200. The attack was carried out by the neo-fascist terrorist organization \"Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari\" (Armed Revolutionary Groups), which denied having any involvement. Other theories have been proposed however, especially in correlation with the strategy of tension. The bombing was the fourth deadliest terrestrial terrorist attack in Western Europe behind the Nice attack in July 2016, the Paris attacks in November 2015, and the Madrid train bombings in March 2004.\n\nAt 10:25 CEST, a time bomb hidden in an unattended suitcase detonated inside an air-conditioned waiting room at the Bologna station. As air conditioning was uncommon in Italy, the room was full of people seeking refuge from the August heat. The explosion destroyed most of the main building and hit the Ancona–Chiasso train that was waiting at the first platform. The blast was heard for miles. The roof of the waiting room collapsed onto the occupants, which significantly increased the total number of deaths.\nOn that Saturday, the station was full of tourists, and the city was unprepared for such a massive incident. Many citizens and travelers provided first aid to victims and helped to extract people buried under the rubble. \n\nBecause of a large number of casualties, and an insufficient supply of ambulances and emergency vehicles available to transport the injured to the hospitals, firefighters also employed buses (particularly those from the #37 route), private cars, and taxis. To provide care to the victims, doctors and hospital staff returned early from vacation. Some hospital departments that had been closed for summer holidays were reopened to allow the admission of all patients.\n\nIn the following days the central square of Bologna, Piazza Maggiore, hosted large-scale demonstrations of indignation and protest by the population. Harsh criticism was directed toward government representatives, who attended the funerals of the victims celebrated in the Basilica San Petronio on 6 August. The only applause was reserved for President Sandro Pertini, who arrived by helicopter in Bologna at 17:30 on the day of the massacre, and said in tears in front of reporters: \"I have no words, we are facing the most criminal enterprise that has ever taken place in Italy.\"\n\nThe #37 bus, along with the clock stopped at 10:25, remained a symbol of the massacre. The attack was recorded as the worst atrocity in Italy since World War II.\n\nThe next day, police investigators found metal fragments and scraps of plastics near the source of the explosion.\n\nThe bomb was later found to be composed of 23 kg of explosive, a mixture of 5 kg of TNT and Composition B, improved from 18 kg of T4 (nitroglycerin for civil use).\n\nThe Italian government, led by Christian Democrat Prime Minister Francesco Cossiga, first assumed that the explosion was due to an accidental explosion of an old boiler located in the basement of the station. However, the evidence soon pointed to an act of terrorism. \"L'Unità\", the newspaper of the Italian Communist Party (PCI), on 3 August attributed responsibility for the attack to neo-fascists. Later, in a special session to the Senate, Cossiga supported the theory that neo-fascists were behind the attack, \"unlike leftist terrorism, which strikes at the heart of the state through its representatives, black terrorism prefers the massacre because it promotes panic and impulsive reactions.\"\n\nShortly after the bombing, the press agency ANSA received a call from someone purporting to represent NAR and claiming responsibility. The call later proved to be fake and to have originated from the Florence office of SISMI, the Italian Military Secret Service. Federigo Manucci Benincasa, director of the Florence branch of SISMI, would later be charged with obstruction of justice.\n\nIn September 1980, a \"Lebanese connection\" was manufactured, involving Al Fatah, Phalangists, Italian radicals and Swiss journalists tied to the Italian intelligence community, who supplied investigators with fake notes, memos, and reports. This was followed by a \"KGB connection\" concocted by intelligence head General Giuseppe Santovito, a member of P2 and Francesco Pazienza.\n\nGenerals Pietro Musumeci, a member of P2, and Belmonte of SISMI had a police sergeant put a suitcase full of explosives, of the same type that blew up the station, on a train in Bologna. The suitcase also contained personal items of two right-wing extremists, a Frenchman, and a German. Musumeci also produced a phony dossier called \"Terror on trains\". Musumeci was charged with falsifying evidence in order to incriminate Roberto Fiore and Gabriele Adinolfi, two leaders of \"Terza Posizione\" who had fled to London. Both \"Terza Posizione\" leaders claimed that Musumeci was trying to divert attention from Licio Gelli (head of the \"masonic\" lodge P2).\n\nGelli and Pazienza were convicted of obstructing the investigation, as were Musumeci and Belmonte of SISMI.\n\nThe attack has been attributed to the NAR (Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari), a neo-fascist terrorist organization. A long and controversial court case began after the bombing. Francesca Mambro and Giuseppe Fioravanti were sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nIn April 2007, the Supreme Court affirmed the conviction of Luigi Ciavardini, a NAR member associated closely with close ties to \"Terza Posizione\". Ciavardini received a 30-year prison sentence for his role in the attack. Ciavardini had been arrested following the armed robbery of the \"Banca Unicredito di Roma\" on 15 September 2005. Ciavardini was also charged with the assassination of Francesco Evangelista on 28 May 1980, and the assassination of Judge Mario Amato on 23 June 1980.\nOn 26 August 1980, the prosecutor of Bologna issued twenty-eight arrest warrants against far-right militants of the NAR and Terza Posizione. Among those arrested were Massimo Morsello (a future founder of Forza Nuova), Francesca Mambro, Aldo Semerari, Maurizio Neri, and fascist militant Paolo Signorelli. They were interrogated in Ferrara, Rome, Padua, and Parma. All were released from prison in 1981.\n\nMain stages of the trial:\n\nOn 12 February 1992, the united sections of the Criminal Court of Cassation acquitted Rinani and Signorelli of the charge of murder. Signorelli was also acquitted for armed gang and subversive association. The court also acquitted a number of other defendants facing various charges, cancelled the judgment and ordered a new trial. The court declared the appeal process must be redone because the sentences were deemed \"illogical, incoherent, not assessing proofs and evidence in good terms, not taking into account the facts preceding and following the event, unmotivated or poorly motivated, in some parts the judges supporting unlikely arguments that not even the defense had argued\".\n\n\nIn April 1998, Mambro was given a form of home-detention in which she was allowed to leave prison leave during the day.\n\nIn June 2000, Massimo Carminati (NAR member), Ivano Bongiovanni (far-right sympathiser) and Federigo Manucci Benincasa (SISMI officer) were convicted for obstruction. Carminati and Manucci Benincasa were acquitted for lack of evidence in December 2001, while the use of Bongiovanni was declared unreliable (the conviction becomes final). On 30 January 2003, the Court of Cassation finally acquitted Carminati and Manucci Benincasa.\n\nAs a result of the protracted legal procedures and numerous false leads, a number of theories took hold over the years following the attack:\n\n\n\nThe municipality of Bologna together with the \"Associazione tra i familiari delle vittime della strage alla stazione di Bologna del 2 agosto 1980\" hold an annual international composition competition, which culminates with a concert in the town's main square, \"Piazza Maggiore,\" annually on 2 August, which is also the day designated as a national memorial day for all terrorist massacres.\n\nThe area of the station where the bomb detonated has been reconstructed but, as a memorial of the attack, the original floor tile pierced by the detonation has been left in place and a deep crack closed by a glass panel has been made in the reconstructed main wall. Strangely, many people have believed the station clock had been stopped since the explosion, even though it hadn't. In 1996, the station clock was stopped at 10:25, the time of the explosion, as a further memorial.\n\nRelatives of the victims formed an association (\"Associazione dei familiari delle vittime della strage alla stazione di Bologna del 2 agosto 1980\") to raise and maintain civil awareness about the case.\n\nThe victims' association (\"Associazione tra i familiari delle vittime della strage alla stazione di Bologna del 2 agosto 1980\") was formed on 1 June 1981 in order to \"get due justice with possible initiatives\", made up initially of 44 people; the number of members later grew to 300 elements.\n\nThe association in the years following the massacre remained active, both for the memory of the massacre and to propose initiatives that were added to the investigation. Quarterly, its components are used to go to the court, in order to meet prosecutors and, out of the meeting, even launching a news conference for information on the state of things.\n\nOn 6 April 1983, the Association, together with the associations of victims of the massacres of Piazza Fontana, Piazza della Loggia and Italicus train, formed, based in Milan, the Union of Relatives of Victims to Massacres (\"Unione dei Familiari delle Vittime per Stragi\").\n\nThe bombing occupies a chapter in \"\" by Laurent Binet. The 2017 French novel is a satire of the late-20th-century intellectual and political life of Paris, and involves two detectives investigating what they assume to be the murder of the philosopher Roland Barthes. The detectives have traveled to Bologna to interview Umberto Eco, and narrowly escape being injured in the attack.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49978806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49978806", "title": "CSC Version 6.0", "text": "CSC Version 6.0\n\nThe Center for Internet Security Critical Security Controls Version 6.0 was released October 15, 2015. It consists of:\n\n"}
{"id": "36364731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36364731", "title": "Chagos Archipelago sovereignty dispute", "text": "Chagos Archipelago sovereignty dispute\n\nSovereignty over the Chagos Archipelago is disputed between Mauritius and the United Kingdom. Mauritius has repeatedly asserted that the Chagos Archipelago is part of its territory and that the United Kingdom (UK) claim is a violation of United Nations resolutions banning the dismemberment of colonial territories before independence. The UK government has stated that it has no doubt about its sovereignty over the Chagos, and has also said that the Chagos will be returned to Mauritius once the islands are no longer required for defence purposes. Given the absence of any progress with the UK, Mauritius has decided to \"internationalise\" the dispute and take up the matter at all appropriate legal and political forums.\n\nThe African Union and the Non-Aligned Movement have expressed unanimous support for Mauritius on the Chagos issue.\n\nThe Constitution of Mauritius states that the Outer islands of Mauritius includes the islands of Mauritius, Rodrigues, Agaléga, Cargados Carajos and the Chagos Archipelago, including Diego Garcia and any other island comprised in the State of Mauritius. The Government of the Republic of Mauritius has stated that it does not recognise the \"British Indian Ocean Territory\" which the United Kingdom created by excising the Chagos Archipelago from the territory of Mauritius prior to its independence, and claims that the Chagos Archipelago including Diego Garcia forms an integral part of the territory of Mauritius under both Mauritian law and international law.\nIn 1965, the United Kingdom split the Chagos Archipelago away from Mauritius, and the islands of Aldabra, Farquhar, and Desroches from the Seychelles, to form the British Indian Ocean Territory. The islands were formally established as an overseas territory of the United Kingdom on 8 November 1965. However, with effect from 23 June 1976 Aldabra, Farquhar, and Desroches were returned to the Seychelles on their attaining independence.\n\nOn 18 March 2015, the Permanent Court of Arbitration unanimously held that the marine protected area (MPA) which the United Kingdom declared around the Chagos Archipelago in April 2010 was created in violation of international law. The Prime Minister of Mauritius has stated that this is the first time that the country's conduct with regard to the Chagos Archipelago has been considered and condemned by any international court or tribunal. He described the ruling as an important milestone in the relentless struggle, at the political, diplomatic, and other levels, of successive Governments over the years for the effective exercise by Mauritius of the sovereignty it claims over the Chagos Archipelago. The tribunal considered in detail the undertakings given by the United Kingdom to the Mauritian Ministers at the Lancaster House talks in September 1965. The UK had argued that those undertakings were not binding and had no status in international law. The Tribunal firmly rejected that argument, holding that those undertakings became a binding international agreement upon the independence of Mauritius, and have bound the UK ever since. It found that the UK's commitments towards Mauritius in relation to fishing rights and oil and mineral rights in the Chagos Archipelago are legally binding.\n\nBeginning in the late 15th century, Portuguese explorers began to venture into the Indian Ocean and recorded the location of Mauritius and the other Mascarene Islands, Rodrigues and Réunion (the latter presently a French overseas department). In the 16th century, the Portuguese were joined by Dutch and English sailors, both nations having established East India Companies to exploit the commercial opportunities of the Indian Ocean and the Far East. Although Mauritius was used as a stopping point in the long voyages to and from the Indian Ocean, no attempt was made to establish a permanent settlement.\n\nThe first permanent colony in Mauritius was established by the Dutch East India Company in 1638. The Dutch maintained a small presence on Mauritius, with a brief interruption, until 1710 at which point the Dutch East India Company abandoned the island. Following the Dutch departure, the French government took possession of Mauritius in 1715, renaming it the Ile de France.\n\nThe Chagos Archipelago was known during this period, appearing on Portuguese charts as early as 1538, but remained largely untouched. France progressively claimed and surveyed the Archipelago in the mid-18th century and granted concessions for the establishment of coconut plantations, leading to permanent settlement. Throughout this period, France administered the Chagos Archipelago as a dependency of the Ile de France.\n\nIn 1810, the British captured the Ile de France and renamed it Mauritius. By the Treaty of Paris of 30 May 1814, France ceded the Ile de France and all its dependencies (including the Chagos Archipelago) to the United Kingdom.\n\nFrom the date of the cession by France until 8 November 1965, when the Chagos Archipelago was detached from the colony of Mauritius, the Archipelago was administered by the United Kingdom as a Dependency of Mauritius. During this period, the economy of the Chagos Archipelago was primarily driven by the coconut plantations and the export of copra (dried coconut flesh) for the production of oil, although other activities developed as the population of the Archipelago expanded. British administration over the Chagos Archipelago was exercised by various means, including by visits to the Chagos Archipelago made by Special Commissioners and Magistrates from Mauritius.\n\nAlthough the broad outlines of British Administration of the colony during this period are not in dispute, the Parties disagree as to the extent of economic activity in the Chagos Archipelago and its significance for Mauritius, and on the significance of the Archipelago’s status as a dependency. Mauritius contends that there were \"close economic, cultural and social links between Mauritius and the Chagos Archipelago\" and that \"the administration of the Chagos Archipelago as a constituent part of Mauritius continued without interruption throughout that period of British rule\". The United Kingdom, in contrast, submits that the Chagos Archipelago was only \"very loosely administered from Mauritius\" and \"in law and in fact quite distinct from the Island of Mauritius.\" The United Kingdom further contends that \"the islands had no economic relevance to Mauritius, other than as a supplier of coconut oil\" and that, in any event, economic, social and cultural ties between the Chagos Archipelago and Mauritius during this period are irrelevant to the Archipelago’s legal status.\n\nBeginning in 1831, the administration of the British Governor of Mauritius was supplemented by the introduction of a Council of Government, originally composed of ex-officio members and members nominated by the Governor. The composition of this Council was subsequently democratized through the progressive introduction of elected members. In 1947, the adoption of a new Constitution for Mauritius replaced the Council of Government with separate Legislative and Executive Councils. The Legislative Council was composed of the Governor as President, 19 elected members, 12 members nominated by the Governor and 3 ex-officio members.\n\nThe first election of the Legislative Council took place in 1948, and the Mauritius Labour Party (the \"MLP\") secured 12 of the 19 seats available for elected members.35 The MLP strengthened its position in the 1953 election by securing 14 of the available seats, although the MLP lacked an overall majority in the Legislative Council because of the presence of a number of members appointed by the Governor.\n\nThe 1953 election marked the beginning of Mauritius’ move towards independence. Following that election, Mauritian representatives began to press the British Government for universal suffrage, a ministerial system of government and greater elected representation in the Legislative Council. By 1959, the MLP-led government had openly adopted the goal of complete independence.\n\nConstitutional Conferences were held in 1955, 1958, 1961, and 1965, resulting in a new constitution in 1958 and the creation of the post of Chief Minister in 1961 (renamed as the Premier after 1963). In 1962, Dr Seewoosagur Ramgoolam (later Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam) became the Chief Minister within a Council of Ministers chaired by the Governor and, following the 1963 election, formed an all-party coalition government to pursue negotiations with the British on independence.\n\nThe final Constitutional Conference was held in London in September 1965 and was principally concerned with the debate between those Mauritian political leaders favouring independence and those preferring some form of continued association with the United Kingdom. On 24 September 1965, the final day of the conference, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, the Rt. Hon. Anthony Greenwood MP, who was the minister in the United Kingdom Government with responsibility for Mauritius, announced that the United Kingdom Government intended that Mauritius would proceed to full independence.\n\nMauritius became independent on 12 March 1968.\n\nIn conjunction with the move toward Mauritian independence, the United Kingdom formulated a proposal to separate the Chagos Archipelago from the remainder of the colony of Mauritius, and to retain the Archipelago under British control. According to Mauritius, the proposal to separate the Chagos Archipelago stemmed from a decision by the United Kingdom in the early 1960s to \"accommodate the United States’ desire to use certain islands in the Indian Ocean for defence purposes.\"\n\nThe record before the Tribunal sets out a series of bilateral talks between the United Kingdom and the United States in 1964 at which the two States decided that, in order to execute the plans for a defence facility in the Chagos Archipelago, the United Kingdom would \"provide the land, and security of tenure, by detaching islands and placing them under direct U.K. administration.\"\n\nThe suitability of Diego Garcia as the site of the planned defence facility was determined following a joint survey of the Chagos Archipelago and certain islands of the Seychelles in 1964. Following the survey, the United States sent its proposals to the United Kingdom, identifying Diego Garcia as its first preference as the site for the defence facility. The United Kingdom and the United States conducted further negotiations between 1964 and 1965 regarding the desirability of \"detachment of the entire Chagos Archipelago,\" as well as the islands of Aldabra, Farquhar and Desroches (then part of the colony of the Seychelles). They further discussed the terms of compensation that would be required \"to secure the acceptance of the proposals by the local Governments.\"\n\nOn 19 July 1965, the Governor of Mauritius was instructed to communicate the proposal to detach the Chagos Archipelago to the Mauritius Council of Ministers and to report back on the Council’s reaction. The initial reaction of the Mauritian Ministers, conveyed by the Governor’s report of 23 July 1965, was a request for more time to consider the proposal. The report also noted that Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam expressed \"dislike of detachment\". At the next meeting of the Council on 30 July 1965, the Mauritian Ministers indicated that detachment would be \"unacceptable to public opinion in Mauritius\" and proposed the alternative of a long term lease, coupled with safeguards for mineral rights and a preference for Mauritius if fishing or agricultural rights were ever granted. The Parties differ in their understanding of the strength of, and motivation for, the Mauritian reaction. In any event, on 13 August 1965, the Governor of Mauritius informed the Mauritian Ministers that the United States objected to the proposal of a lease.\n\nDiscussions over the detachment of the Chagos Archipelago continued in a series of meetings between certain Mauritian political leaders, including Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam, and the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Anthony Greenwood, coinciding with the Constitutional Conference of September 1965 in London. Over the course of three meetings, the Mauritian leaders pressed the United Kingdom with respect to the compensation offered for Mauritian agreement to the detachment of the Archipelago, noting the involvement of the United States in the establishment of the defence facility and Mauritius’ need for continuing economic support (for example through a higher quota for Mauritius sugar imports into the United States), rather than the lump sum compensation being proposed by the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom took the firm position that obtaining concessions from the United States was not feasible; the United Kingdom did, however, increase the level of lump sum compensation on offer from £1 million to £3 million and introduced the prospect of a commitment that the Archipelago would be returned to Mauritius when no longer needed for defence purposes. The Mauritian leaders also met with the Economic Minister at the U.S. Embassy in London on the question of sugar quotas, and Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam met privately with Prime Minister Harold Wilson on the morning of 23 September 1965. The United Kingdom’s record of this conversation records Prime Minister Wilson having told Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam that\n\nThe meetings culminated in the afternoon of 23 September 1965 (the \"Lancaster House Meeting\") in a provisional agreement on the part of Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam and his colleagues to agree in principle to the detachment of the Archipelago in exchange for the Secretary of State recommending certain actions by the United Kingdom to the Cabinet. The draft record of the Lancaster House Meeting set out the following:\n\nThereafter, Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam addressed a handwritten note to the Under-Secretary of State at the Colonial Office, Mr Trafford Smith, setting out further conditions relating to navigational and meteorological facilities on the Archipelago, fishing rights, emergency landing facilities, and the benefit of mineral or oil discoveries. Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam’s note provided as follows:\n\nThe third page to Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam’s note set out the following items:\n\nThese additions were incorporated into paragraph 22 of the final record of the Lancaster House Meeting, which the Tribunal considers to warrant quotation in full:\n\nOn 6 October 1965, instructions were sent to the Governor of Mauritius to secure \"early confirmation that the Mauritius Government is willing to agree that Britain should now take the necessary legal steps to detach the Chagos Archipelago from Mauritius on the conditions enumerated in (i)–(viii) in paragraph 22 of the enclosed record [of the Lancaster House Meeting].\" The Secretary of State went on to note that -\n\nOn 5 November 1965, the Governor of Mauritius informed the Colonial Office as follows:\n\nThe Governor also noted that \"Parti Mauricien Social Démocrate (PMSD) Ministers dissented and (are now) considering their position in the government.\" The Parties differ regarding the extent to which Mauritian consent to the detachment was given voluntarily.\n\nThe detachment of the Chagos Archipelago was effected by the establishment of the BIOT on 8 November 1965 by Order in Council. Pursuant to the Order in Council, the governance of the newly created BIOT was made the responsibility of the office of the BIOT Commissioner, appointed by the Queen upon the advice of the United Kingdom FCO. The BIOT Commissioner is assisted in the day-to-day management of the territory by a BIOT Administrator.\n\nOn the same day, the Secretary of State cabled the Governor of Mauritius as follows:\n\nOn 12 November 1965, the Governor of Mauritius cabled the Colonial Office, querying whether the Mauritian Ministers could make public reference to the items in paragraph 22 of the record of the Lancaster House Meeting and adding \"[i]n this connection I trust further consideration promised . . . will enable categorical assurances to be given.\"\n\nOn 19 November 1965, the Colonial Office cabled the Governor of Mauritius as follows: U.K./U.S. defence interests;\n\n1. There is no objection to Ministers referring to points contained in paragraph 22 of enclosure to Secret despatch No. 423 of 6 October so long as qualifications contained in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the despatch are borne in mind.\n\n2. It may well be some time before we can give final answers regarding points (iv), (v) and (vi) of paragraph 22 and as you know we cannot be at all hopeful for concessions over sugar imports and it would therefore seem unwise for anything to be said locally which would raise expectations on this point.\n\n3. As regards point (vii) the assurance can be given provided it is made clear that a decision about the need to retain the islands must rest entirely with the United Kingdom Government and that it would not (repeat not) be open to the Government of Mauritius to raise the matter, or press for the return of the islands on its own initiative.\n\n4. As stated in paragraph 2 of my telegram No. 298 there is no intention of permitting prospecting for minerals and oils. The question of any benefits arising therefrom should not [. . .] [illegible]7\nThere is no objection to Ministers referring to points contained in paragraph 22 of enclosure to Secret despatch No. 423 of 6 October so long as qualifications contained in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the despatch are borne in mind. 2. It may well be some time before we can give final answers regarding points (iv), (v) and (vi) of paragraph 22 and as you know we cannot be at all hopeful for concessions over sugar imports and it would therefore seem unwise for anything to be said locally which would raise expectations on this point. 3. As regards point (vii) the assurance can be given provided it is made clear that a decision about the need to retain the islands must rest entirely with the United Kingdom Government and that it would not (repeat not) be open to the Government of Mauritius to raise the matter, or press for the return of the islands on its own initiative.\n\nAfter initially penuriously denying that the islands were inhabited, British officials forcibly expelled approximately 2,000 Chagossians, who had lived on those islands for millennia to mainland Mauritius to allow the United States to establish a military base on Diego Garcia. Since 1971, only the atoll of Diego Garcia is inhabited only by some 3,000 UK and US military and civilian contracted personnel.\n\nThe British Government established a marine protected area (MPA) around the Chagos Islands known as the \"Chagos Marine Protected Area\" was created on 1 April 2010 and enforced on 1 November 2010. It is the world's largest fully protected reserve, twice the size of Great Britain. The designation proved controversial as the decision was announced during a period when the UK Parliament was in recess.\n\nOn 1 December 2010, WikiLeaks release a leaked US Embassy London diplomatic cable dating back to 2009 exposed British and US calculations in creating the marine nature reserve. The cable relays exchanges between US Political Counselor Richard Mills and British Director of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Colin Roberts, in which Roberts \"asserted that establishing a marine park would, in effect, put paid to resettlement claims of the archipelago’s former residents.\" Richard Mills concludes:\n\nThe cable (reference ID \"09LONDON1156\" ) was classified as confidential and \"no foreigners\", and leaked as part of the Cablegate cache.\n\nThe Government of Mauritius initiated proceedings on 20 December 2010 against the UK Government under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) to challenge the legality of the ‘marine protected area’. Mauritius argues that Britain breached a UN resolution when it separated Chagos from the rest of the colony of Mauritius in the 1960s, before the country became independent, and that Britain therefore doesn’t have the right to declare the area a marine reserve and that the MPA was not compatible with the rights of the Chagossians.\n\nOn 18 March 2015, the Permanent Court of Arbitration ruled that the Chagos Marine Protected Area was illegal.\n\nOn 23 June 2017, the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) voted in favour of referring the territorial dispute between Mauritius and the UK to the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in order to clarify the legal status of the Chagos Islands archipelago in the Indian Ocean. The motion was approved by a majority vote with 94 voting for and 15 against.\n\nSince the illegal abduction of the Chagossians in the 1960s, annual surveys have been carried out clearly identifying that Chaggosians consider themselves to be both equal and inseparable members of the European Union and the United Kingdom.\n\nIn March 2014, it was reported that the UK government were sending experts to the islands to examine options and risks of resettlement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18555641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18555641", "title": "Challenge grant", "text": "Challenge grant\n\nChallenge grants are funds disbursed by one party (the grant maker), usually a government agency, corporation, foundation or trust (sometimes anonymously), typically to a non-profit entity or educational institution (the grantee) upon completion of the challenge requirement(s). The \"challenge\" refers to the actions or results that must be achieved before money is released and usually involves substantial effort, so that the recipients know that they are helping themselves through their own hard work and sacrifice.\nChallenge grants: \nA typical requirement is similar to matching funds where funds be raised or acquired from other sources following a stated matching factor, often 2:1, 3:1 or 4:1. For example, a $1,000 challenge grant with a 3:1 match would require the recipient to raise $3,000 before they would receive the $1,000 grant. The challenge could require a new solution to an existing problem that had been ignored. There could be additional requirements specified that could be virtually anything, from program certification to member participation.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "41698185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41698185", "title": "Citizens for Self-Governance", "text": "Citizens for Self-Governance\n\nCitizens for Self-Governance (CSG) is a conservative American political organization. In 2015, it launched a nationwide initiative calling for a convention to propose amendments to the United States Constitution to reduce federal spending. The group's efforts are focused on imposing fiscal restraint on Washington D.C., reducing the federal government's authority over states, and imposing term limits on federal officials. , the organization's resolution has passed in 12 states. A total of 34 states would need to pass such a resolution in order for a Convention to Amend the Constitution to be called per Article V. The organization has also funded a lawsuit against the Internal Revenue Service alleging politically-oriented targeting of organizations. The group is based in Austin, Texas.\n\nMark Meckler serves as President of CSG. Meckler was previously co-founder of the Tea Party Patriots before resigning from that group.\n\nIn May 2013, CSG filed a class action lawsuit against the Internal Revenue Service, alleging violations under the Privacy Act as well as violations of constitutional rights guaranteeing free expression and equal protection under the law. The lawsuit stemmed from IRS targeting of conservative groups for more scrutiny as they applied for tax-exempt status. In April 2015, a federal judge ordered the IRS to turn over the list of 298 groups it had targeted for intrusive scrutiny. The IRS failed to turn over the list, filing a petition for a writ of mandamus from the appellate court so that it would not have to disclose information on groups the agency had targeted. In March 2016, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit issued a unanimous ruling rebuking the IRS and giving the agency two weeks to produce the names of organizations it targeted based on their political leanings. In August 2016, a trial was scheduled for November 2017.\n\nCSG has called for a convention to propose amendments to the United States Constitution. According to Meckler:\n\nCSG has opened numerous chapters across the nation to urge state legislators to summon a national convention; for example, in Virginia, the group sponsored the founder of Patrick Henry College, Michael Farris, to launch a \"Convention of States Project\" which is a forum for delegates appointed by state governments to propose amendments to the constitution.\n\nIn December 2013, nearly 100 legislators from 32 states met at Mount Vernon to talk about how to call a convention of states. According to \"Slate\", \"The meeting lasted four hours, ending when legislators agreed to meet again in the spring of 2014. That’s the most progress anyone’s made in decades toward a states-first constitutional amendment campaign.\" CSG provided the legislators with briefing books that laid out a plan to call a convention of states.\n\nIn March 2014, Georgia became the first state to pass CSG's convention of states application. , ten other states had followed suit, bringing the total number of states to pass CSG's convention of states application to twelve.\n\nIn July 2014, CSG announced plans to have resolutions before at least 24 state legislatures in 2015. In 2015, the group backed bills in 26 states that would call for a convention. Some members of both the Republican and Democratic parties have supported bills backed by the organization, while others from both the left and right have criticized the proposal, fearing that it could \"set the stage for a runaway convention to make over the entire Constitution.\"\n\nIn September 2016, CSG held a simulated convention to propose amendments to the United States Constitution in Williamsburg, Virginia. The simulated convention passed amendments relating to six topics, including requiring the states to approve any increase in the national debt, imposing term limits; limiting the Commerce Clause; providing an \"easy congressional override\" of federal regulations; requiring a supermajority to impose federal taxes and repealing the Sixteenth Amendment; and \"giving the states (by a three-fifths vote) the power to abrogate any federal law, regulation, or executive order.\"\n\nJim DeMint became a senior advisor to the group in June 2017. According to DeMint, \"The Tea Party needs a new mission. They realize that all the work they did in 2010 has not resulted in all the things they hoped for. Many of them are turning to Article V.\"\n\nCSG is aligned with the Tea Party movement.\n\nRadio host Mark Levin has supported CSG's efforts to a call a second constitutional convention. Former U.S. Senator Tom Coburn has endorsed the Convention of States Project and serves as a senior advisor to CSG's efforts. \n\nU.S. Senator Ron Johnson, former Governor of Arkansas Mike Huckabee, Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, Glenn Beck, Sarah Palin, John Kasich, Bobby Jindal, Allen West, and Greg Abbott have all endorsed a convention of states.\n\nIn September 2014, CSG announced that a Legal Board of Reference had signed a \"Jefferson Statement\" endorsing the Convention of States initiative. The Legal Board of Reference included Randy Barnett, Charles J. Cooper, John C. Eastman, Michael Farris, Robert P. George, C. Boyden Gray, Mark Levin, Andrew C. McCarthy, and Mark Meckler.\n\nIn late 2015, Marco Rubio endorsed CSG's call for a constitutional convention.\n\nOpponents of the group's efforts to call a convention to propose amendments to the United States Constitution include conservative groups the John Birch Society and the Eagle Forum as well as George Soros. Liberal advocacy group Common Cause has been a vocal opponent of the CSG's Convention of the States initiative; in a May 2016 report entitled \"The Dangerous Path: Big Money's Plan to Shred the Constitution\", the group wrote that \"There is nothing to prevent the convention, once convened, from proposing additional changes that could limit or eliminate fundamental rights or upend our entire system of government.\"\n\nTax records show that CSG's annual funding increased since its push to amend the Constitution began; the group received $1.8 million in contributions in 2011, and $5.7 million in contributions in 2015. The group does not disclose the sources of its funding; in a 2013 tax filing, CSG stated that disclosure would \"chill the donors' First Amendment right to associate in private with the organization.\"\n\nCSG also operates the Alliance for Self-Governance and Convention of States Action, neither of which is legally required to disclose donors' identities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21745570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21745570", "title": "Consistory (Judaism)", "text": "Consistory (Judaism)\n\nA Jewish consistory (see conventional meanings: consistory in Wiktionary), (or Consistoire in French), was a body governing the Jewish congregations of a province or of a country; also the district administered by the consistory. \n\nNapoleon Bonaparte established the first central Jewish consistory in France, and ordered regional ones to be set up in turn. The political emancipation of the Jews required the creation of a representative body that could transact official business with a government in the name of the Jews. The Jews in countries under French influence during the Napoleonic period often also established consistories. In addition, in this period, the educated classes desired religious reform and supported the creation of a body vested with authority to render religious decisions.\n\nNapoleon I established the first Jewish consistory. In 1806 he convened the Assembly of Jewish Notables, whose resolutions were confirmed by a subsequently convened Grand Sanhedrin. By decree of March 17, 1808, he organized a consistory. According to this decree, every department containing 2,000 Jews might establish a consistory. Departments having fewer than this number might combine with others; but no department had more than one consistory. Above these provincial consistories, there was a central consistory. Every consistory consisted of a grand rabbi, with another rabbi where possible, and three lay members, two of whom were residents of the town where the consistory sat. They were elected by twenty-five \"notables,\" who were nominated by the French authorities. \n\nThus Israelite French consistories were, like their Protestant namesakes, parastatal entities to represent these religious minorities to the administration, which in return used to control them. Eligible to become members of the consistory were Israelites who had reached the age of thirty years, who had never been bankrupt, nor practised usury. The central consistory consisted of three grand rabbis and two lay members. Every year one grand rabbi retired, and the remaining members elected his successor.\n\nNapoleon demanded that the consistories should ensure that resolutions passed by the Assembly of Notables and confirmed by the Sanhedrin should be enforced by the rabbis. He required the following: proper decorum should be maintained in the synagogue; Jews should take up mechanical trades (to replace usury); and the leaders should ensure that no young men evaded military service. The central consistory watched over the consistories of the various departments, and had the right to appoint the rabbis.\n\nNapoleon's administration introduced the concept of the consistory to the various countries which were under the sway of France during his era and where Jews had been emancipated, such as Belgium (French-annexed from 1794 to 1814), and the client states of Holland and Westphalia. Napoleon's youngest brother, Jérôme Bonaparte, ruled over Westphalia, where he established the by decree of March 31, 1808. It was composed of a president (who could be either a rabbi or a layman), three rabbis, two lay members, and one secretary. Consistorial President Israel Jacobson was largely responsible for establishing this, as he hoped to use it to introduce his own ideas about Reform Judaism. The consistory ordered the introduction of confirmation for Jewish youths and removed the prohibition against consumption of leguminous plants on Passover. \n\nWith the exception of the consistory in Belgium, none of these organizations survived the Napoleonic era. Counter-revolutions in the countries formerly under French influence resulted in governments re-establishing discriminatory laws against the Jews.\n\nDuring the middle of the nineteenth century, various Jewish communities worked to introduce either a consistory or a synod which should, by an authoritative vote, settle the difficulties which arose when the demands of the time came into conflict with the traditional Halakah law. Some members of the Jewish communities wanted reform, but others resisted change. None of these attempts was successful.\n\nSince Napoleon's 1808, the Consistory in France has changed. Members changed the method of electing the delegates, and dropped provisions assigning the rabbis secondary roles as government informers. In the later 19th century, Louis Philippe (May 25, 1844) and Napoleon III (June 15, 1850, and August 29, 1862) made significant changes. \n\nIn 1871 the ambits of the three consistories in Colmar, Metz and Strasbourg became part of Alsace-Lorraine outside the supervision of the Central Consistory. They were not under any other common umbrella. However, the three consistories remained concordatary religious bodies and were entitled to nominate together one representative for the upper house of the parliament of Alsace-Lorraine, as did other recognised religious bodies. After French defeat in the Franco-Prussian War, Alsace-Lorraine was ceded to Prussia. \n\nThe French law of December 12, 1872, introduced the system of universal suffrage in elections of the consistories. In the beginning of the 20th century, there were twelve consistories: Paris, Nancy, Bordeaux, Lyon, Marseilles, Bayonne, Epinal, Lille, Besançon, Algier, Constantine, and Oran. Each has the grand rabbi of the consistorial district and six lay members, with a secretary. Each consistory has a representative in the Central Consistory, which is composed of twelve members and the Grand Rabbi of France; its seat is in Paris.\n\nBy the 1905 French law on the Separation of Religions and the State, the Israelite consistories in France lost their status as \"établissements publics du culte\" (public-law corporations of cult). With the defeat of Germany in World War I, in 1919 the three Israelite consistories in Alsace-Moselle returned to French jurisdiction. Their concordatary status has since been preserved in what is now called the local law in Alsace-Moselle. They retain their status as parastatal entities.\n\n"}
{"id": "43636030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43636030", "title": "Constitution of São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Constitution of São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nThe Constitution of São Tomé and Príncipe (Portuguese: \"Constituição da República Democrática de São Tomé e Príncipe\") was first approved on 5 November 1975. There were revisions in 1980, 1987 and 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4922182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4922182", "title": "Council of Foreign Ministers", "text": "Council of Foreign Ministers\n\nCouncil of Foreign Ministers was an organisation agreed upon at the Potsdam Conference in 1945 and announced in the Potsdam Agreement.\n\nThe Potsdam Agreement specified that the Council would be composed of the Foreign Ministers of the United Kingdom, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, China, France, and the United States. It would normally meet in London (at Lancaster House) and the first meeting was to take place no later than 1 September 1945. As the immediate important task, the Council was authorised to draw up treaties of peace with Italy, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary and Finland, and to propose settlements of territorial questions outstanding on the termination of the war in Europe. Also the Council should prepare a peace settlement for Germany to be accepted when a \"government adequate for the purpose is established\".\n\nThe ministers met two times in 1945: first at the London Conference of Foreign Ministers and then in December at the Moscow Conference of Foreign Ministers, and in 1946 at the Paris Conference of Foreign Ministers.\n\nThe London conference was marred by a dispute between the Soviet Union and the United States over occupation of Japan and little of substance was accomplished. The Moscow conference was more productive; it agreed to the preparation of peace treaties with Italy, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary and Finland; the creation of an eleven–member Far Eastern Commission and a four–member Allied Council for Japan. It also agreed to the establishment by the United Nations of a commission for the control of atomic energy, as well as a number of other lesser issues brought about by the end of World War II. France joined the Council in 1946 and at the Paris Conference the final wording for the Paris Peace Treaties of 1947 was agreed. The outstanding issue of Free Territory of Trieste was resolved at the New York meeting of the Foreign Ministers in November–December 1946.\n\nIn 1947 the ministers met twice first in Moscow, in the Spring, and again in the Autumn in London, but by this time the Cold War was gathering pace and they failed to agree on a peace treaty for Germany and Austria. They did however agree to the dissolution of the free state of Prussia, thereby recognising the annexation of the Prussian territories east of the Oder-Neisse line.\n\nAt a meeting in Paris in September 1948 the ministers failed to agree on what to do with the former Italian colonies. The council was revived in 1949 and met in Paris, during May and June, where they agreed to the ending of the Soviet blockade of Berlin, but failed to agree on German reunification. The Berlin meeting in 1954 ended in deadlock, but the following year in Vienna, they agreed on a peace treaty for Austria (the Austrian State Treaty).\n\nMeetings by the foreign ministers in Geneva, the first at the Geneva Summit in July 1955 and again a year later failed to reach agreement on German reunification, or European security and disarmament. A third meeting in 1959 again failed to reach agreement over Germany. The Western powers would only agree to a comprehensive peace treaty with a Germany reunited under a democratic government, not treaties with the governments of East and West Germany. They also refused to agree with a Soviet proposal to a change in the status of Berlin from an occupied city into a demilitarised one.\n\nIn 1971 the foreign ministers of the four powers signed the Four Power Agreement on Berlin (effective from June 1972). It regularised trade and travel relations between West Berlin and West Germany and aimed at improving communications between East Berlin and West Berlin. The Soviet Union stipulated, however, that West Berlin would not be incorporated into West Germany. That meeting also produced the Basic Treaty (effective June 1973) which recognised two German states, and the two countries pledged to respect one another's sovereignty. Under the terms of the treaty, diplomatic missions were to be exchanged and commercial, tourist, cultural, and communications relations established. Under the agreement and the treaty, both German states joined the United Nations (September 1973).\n\nAfter the fall of the Berlin Wall, on 12 September 1990 the Treaty on the Final Settlement With Respect to Germany was signed by the four powers and the two German governments, which was the final peace treaty of World War II and the restoration of German sovereignty. This allowed German reunification to take place on 3 October 1990 and the reunited country became fully sovereign again on 15 March 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8841704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8841704", "title": "Danglish", "text": "Danglish\n\nDanglish is a portmanteau of Danish and English. The term is used in Denmark to refer to the increasingly strong influx of English or pseudo-English vocabulary into Danish. It is an example of code switching, much like Spanglish in the United States.\nWhile it has been argued that the influx of English words, similar to the import of Latin and French words in the past, makes the language more expressive, it remains controversial in many sectors of society, notably with older people, who are often less accustomed to English terms.\n\n\"Danglish\" is also used as a pejorative referring to the use of poor and/or clumsy English by Danes.\n\nDanglish words often receive standard Danish endings and prefixes; in other words, they are conjugated or declined in the same manner as Danish words. The following are examples of sentences featuring Danified English words; the correct terms in Danish are also included as well:\n\n\nThe adaptation also takes the other route, where literal translations of popular English expressions slowly but insistently replace the correct Danish words and idioms. Widespread examples of this evolution include but are not :\n\n\nThese phrasings may have originated from (subtitled) English-language films and television shows translated into Danish, but are also used in everyday language.\n\nA large majority of Danes are familiar with English as a second language, but sometimes the translation from Danish to English is more Danglish:\n\n\n\nSeveral schools have lately changed their names to become more internationally recognized. \"Handelshøjskolen i København\" is now known as \"Copenhagen Business School\" or \"CBS\". Of the three music conservatories offering classical music programs, the English names of Royal Academy of Music, Aarhus/Aalborg and Danish National Academy of Music deviate from their original Danish names that show strong geographical emphasis, \"Det Jyske Musikkonservatorium (DJM)\" and \"Syddansk Musikkonservatorium (SDMK)\", which are translated as \"The Jutlandic Music Conservatory\" and \"Southern Denmark Music Conservatory\" respectively. Their English acronyms \"RAMA\" and \"DNA of Music\" are also employed in such informal settings as social media, for instance, the former's annual \"RAMA Festival\" and the latter's Facebook page URL. \n\nMany English-language films such as \"Armageddon\", \"Toy Story\" or \"Ice Age\", do not translate their titles into Danish, even if the films themselves are otherwise fully translated. Menus of many global fast food chains also usually go partly or completely untranslated, such as \"Double Whopper,\" \n\n"}
{"id": "7129350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7129350", "title": "Defensores del Medio Ambiente de los Tuxtlas, AC", "text": "Defensores del Medio Ambiente de los Tuxtlas, AC\n\nThe Mexican civil association, Defensores del Medio Ambiente de Los Tuxtlas AC, or \"DEMATAC\", (which means \"Defenders of the Tuxtlas Environment\") is an environmental group in Catemaco, Veracruz, Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "10613705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10613705", "title": "Donald Mosley", "text": "Donald Mosley\n\nDonald Mosley is a co-founder of the Habitat for Humanity organization. Mosley was a Peace Corps volunteer in Malaysia and a regional director in South Korea. With a background in history, math, engineering and anthropology, he helped launch Habitat for Humanity in the 1970s. He has been on the international board of directors since 1995.\n\nIn 1984, as national chairman for the Fellowship of Reconciliation (FOR), he helped lead a delegation to Nicaragua during the war there between the Sandinistas and the Contras. That experience impacted him to lead many such groups on dozens of trips to conflict zones in Central America, the Middle East and other parts of the world.\n\nIn 2003 he helped to launch the All Our Children campaign by which thousands of people in U.S. churches and mosques have provided medicine for Iraqi children.\n\nMosley is a writer and lectures in churches, universities and in other settings. He is author of books titled \"With Our Own Eyes\" and \"Faith Beyond Borders.\"\n\nHe and his wife, Carolyn Mosley, are founding members of the Jubilee Partners community in Georgia, which has hosted about 3,000 refugees from more than 30 countries around the world. The main goal of the Jubilee Partners is to live as an intentional Christian service community and to extend hospitality to newly arrived refugees.\n\nIn 1989 Mosley received the Pfeffer Peace Prize, which is awarded each year to \"honor those around the world working for peace and justice.\" In 2005 he received the Pacem in Terris Peace and Freedom Award for exemplifying Christian ideals. It was named after a 1963 encyclical letter by Pope John XXIII that calls upon all people of good will to secure peace among all nations; \"Pacem in terris\" is Latin for 'Peace on Earth'.\n"}
{"id": "5130884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5130884", "title": "Donor recognition wall", "text": "Donor recognition wall\n\nWith origins in the early 20th century, a donor recognition wall (also known as a donor wall or donor display) is typically a wall-mounted display found in a centralized location of a hospital, university, museum, library, worship facility, or other nonprofit institution. It consists of a listing of names of persons or companies that contributed funds to a capital campaign or other major fundraising effort of the organization. The fundamental purposes of a donor recognition wall are to honor the major financial contributors of an organization, and to serve as an incentive for potential donors to contribute.\n\nTraditionally, donor recognition walls consisted of header (title) lettering with the names of benefactors listed below on engraved brass panels or plaques. Today, however, donor recognition walls can incorporate a variety of styles, materials, artistic media and interactive multimedia presentations that appear on plasma displays, touch-screen kiosks and LCD screens. Often in contemporary architecture, a donor recognition wall will constitute a major aesthetic feature of a building's lobby area or main hallway. It will frequently incorporate a prominent display of the organization's logo and mission statement.\n\nMany institutions consider a “donor wall” or some kind of comprehensive recognition piece to be the period at the end of the campaign sentence.\n\n"}
{"id": "19788515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19788515", "title": "European Parliamentary Union", "text": "European Parliamentary Union\n\nThe European Parliamentary Union (EPU) was a private organization set up by Richard von Coudenhove-Kalergi, who was also its Secretary General.\nIt held its preliminary conference on 4–5 July 1947 at Gstaad, Switzerland, and followed it with its first full conference from 8 to 12 September.\n\nKalergi’s aim was to draft a European Constitution. The EPU asked some 4000 members of Parliament of 13 European countries to decide for or against a European Federation in the framework of the United Nations. The project was criticized by Denis de Rougemont and Duncan Sandys, son-in-law of Winston Churchill, founder of the European Movement, who advocated a model based on an intergovernmental co-operation without any loss of national sovereignty.\nThe EPU played a prominent role in the Congress of the Hague, 7–10 May 1948.\n\nThe second EPU Congress was held from 1 to 5 September 1948 in Interlaken, Switzerland.\nOn 20 September 1949, the EPU met for the third time in Venice and voted a resolution in favour of greater European political integration and an extension of the powers of the Consultative Assembly of the Council of Europe, which had just been established. In 1949, the British MP Kim Mackay became chair of the EPU.\nThe creation of the Council of Europe resulted in a loss of influence for the EPU, since European parliaments now had their own intergovernmental forum in Strasbourg.\n\nOn 18 May 1950, Kalergi was the first person to be awarded the International Charlemagne Prize of the City of Aachen. In 19.-20 June 1950, Rheinfelden, Switzerland, the EPU organised a Conference of German and French Parliamentarians\nShortly afterwards, the EPU was merged with the European Movement. \nKalergi was elected honorary president of the European Movement in 1952.\n\n"}
{"id": "1594108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1594108", "title": "Eurosclerosis", "text": "Eurosclerosis\n\nEurosclerosis (German: \"Eurosklerose\") is a term coined by German economist Herbert Giersch in the 1970s, to describe a pattern of economic stagnation in Europe that may have resulted from government over-regulation and overly generous social benefits policies. The term alludes to the medical term sclerosis, and is a rhyme of the archaic term \"neurosclerosis\".\n\nThe term was used to describe European countries of the 1970s and 1980s which had high unemployment and slow job creation in spite of overall economic growth, in contrast to what the United States experienced in the same period when economic expansion was accompanied by high job growth. In its political context, the term \"eurosclerosis\" was used to describe a period with a perceived stagnation of European integration. The slow pace of enlargement, a perceived lack of democracy and economic problems meant that negative and apathetic attitudes to the European Economic Community (EEC) were high.\n\nWilfried Martens, Prime Minister of Belgium from 1981 to 1992, states in his 2008 memoirs that the period of \"eurosclerosis\" was brought to an end by the 1986 Single European Act which re-launched the drive to integration by framing the single market of the EEC.\n\nAs an economic term, \"eurosclerosis\" has later been used more broadly to refer to overall economic stagnation. According to Paul Krugman and the US Federal Reserve, at least one alleged victim of Eurosclerosis (France) has gone from having a lower employment than the US in 1999, to a significantly higher employment rate following the Great Recession.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53192281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53192281", "title": "Euskal Herria Bai", "text": "Euskal Herria Bai\n\nEuskal Herria Bai (, EH Bai) is a Basque political coalition in France, founded in 2007 by Abertzaleen Batasuna, Eusko Alkartasuna and Batasuna. Batasuna disappeared in 2013, being replaced by Sortu.\n\nEH Bai won 17,779 votes (16.09%) in the first round of the elections, getting to the second round in 5 of the 12 cantons of the French Basque Country. In the second round EH Bai won the 78.05% of the vote in the Canton of Nive-Adour, losing in the other 4 cantons (45,40% in Canton of Saint-Jean-de-Luz, 44,43% in the Canton of Ustaritz-Vallées de Nive et Nivelle, 42,87% in Montagne Basque and 38,14% in Pays de Bidache, Amikuze et Ostibarre).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44092542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44092542", "title": "Fatah–Hamas reconciliation process", "text": "Fatah–Hamas reconciliation process\n\nThe Fatah–Hamas reconciliation process refers to a series of reconciliation attempts to resolve the hostility between Fatah and Hamas since the 2006–2007 Fatah–Hamas conflict and Hamas' subsequent takeover of the Gaza Strip.\n\nDespite a number of agreements, those attempts have as of 2016 not been successful, with Hamas still exercising full control of the Gaza Strip, despite the formation of the \"unity government\" in June 2014. Israel and the United States have effectively opposed reconciliation.\n\nUntil the First Intifada, Fatah was the sole dominating party in the Palestinian political arena, including the PLO. In 1987, Hamas arose as a resistance movement against the Israeli occupation. Following the Oslo Accords, the PLO, of which Fatah still was the dominant member, formally denounced armed resistance. Hamas refused to recognize Israel and opposed the Oslo Accords and subsequent agreements between the PLO and Israel. Under pressure of Israel and the international community, Fatah attempted to eliminate Hamas, especially after Mahmoud Abbas had succeeded Arafat as President of the Palestinian National Authority. Tensions mounted ahead the Israeli disengagement from Gaza in 2005 and culminated in the Battle of Gaza in June 2007, resulting in a split of the Palestinian government.\n\nIn reconciliation attempts, Hamas has mainly focussed on reform of the PLO and its inclusion in the organisation. After Hamas' victory in the 2006 elections, it unsuccessfully tried to run the PA Government due to Israeli and international boycott.\n\nAlthough Hamas has maintained that it is ready to conclude a long-term truce with Israel (hudna), it has vowed to never recognize Israel, because this would imply the recognition of the \"Zionist occupation of Palestine\", which Hamas views as an Arab Islamic country. In the view of Hamas, recognition of Israel would imply the acceptance of the expulsion of more than 700,000 Palestinians during the Nakba during the 1948 Arab–Israeli war. Hamas' refusal to recognize Israel and denounce armed resistance, unlike the PLO and implicitly Fatah, has been the main reason for Israel and the international community to oppose the reconciliation between Fatah and Hamas. Fatah has met with massive external pressure not to cooperate with Hamas.\n\nIsrael has consistently objected to Hamas being included in any PA government. In 2009, for example, Benjamin Netanyahu said that Israel would never make peace with Hamas and \"cannot accept Hamas as a negotiating partner\". Following the April 2011 Cairo Agreement, he ruled out a peace agreement for that reason. He said: \"The PA must choose either peace with Israel or peace with Hamas. There is no possibility for peace with both\" and \"How can you talk to us about peace when you're talking about peace with Hamas. You can choose [to make] peace with Israel or you can choose peace with Hamas\".\n\nPresident Abbas has consistently been under pressure not to make any deal with Hamas. In September 2013, Abbas admitted that he was under pressure from the US and Israel not to achieve unity with Hamas. PLC council member for Hamas \"Anwar Zaboun\" said that both the US and EU maintain a veto on the reconciliation.\n\nIn 2011, an Israeli official declared that Israel would cut its ties with the PA if it brought Hamas into its government. In reaction to the February 2012 Doha Agreement and the announcement of a unity caretaker government composed of non-affiliated technocrats (thus without Hamas members), Netanyahu reiterated that Abbas must choose between peace with Israel and peace with hamas, but that he had chosen \"to abandon the path of peace and join with Hamas\". When Abbas ten days later openly declared that the next government would remain committed to all signed obligations and agreements, rather than silently let run a non-political technocrats government, Hamas was angered and the unity government did not emerge.\n\nWhen eventually a national unity government was formed in 2014, without any Hamas ministers, Israel nevertheless condemned the unity government, imposed sanctions on the new PA government and ended peace talks with Abbas.\n\nOne of the effective means of pressure at times used by Israel is withholding of taxes it collects on behalf of the PA. Israel collectively punished the Palestinians, for example, following the formation of the 2006 PA government and the successive 2007 unity government, following the May 2011 reconciliation agreement and after UN applications.\n\nOn 19 March 2005, twelve Palestinian factions, including Fatah, Hamas, Islamic Jihad, Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) and Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP) signed the Palestinian Cairo Declaration. The Declaration reaffirmed the status of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) as the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people through the participation in it of all forces and factions according to democratic principles. The Declaration implied a reform of the PLO by the inclusion in the PLO of Hamas and Islamic Jihad. It also called for unity of the Palestinian factions against the Israeli occupation and avoidance of further violent interactions between the Palestinian groups.\n\nIn May 2006, leaders of 5 Palestinian factions in an Israeli prison, including from Fatah and Hamas, signed a \"National Conciliation Document\", known as the Prisoners' Document. It was written with the intention to reconcile all factions and unite them in their struggle against the Israeli occupation and form a government of national unity. It envisioned an independent Palestinian state within the 1967 borders, with al-Quds al-Shareef as its capital. President Abbas immediately endorsed the Document, which implicitly recognizes Israel. He demanded, however, that Hamas explicitly approve it, threatening with a national referendum on the Document. Eventually, the political leadership of all factions endorsed a revised version of the Prisoners' Document. Hamas refused, however, to \"explicitly\" recognize Israel and to forswear armed resistance within the occupied territories. Israel quickly dismissed the Document because it did not explicitly recognize Israel.\n\nOn 11 September 2006, President Mahmoud Abbas and Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh reached a tentative agreement to form a government of national unity. They agreed that the new government should be based on the Prisoners' Document. On 20 September, the Palestinian daily \"al-Ayyam\" published the text of the draft-agreement, called \"Program for a new government\", consisting of 7 points. The accord states that the government will \"respect\" the agreements signed by the PLO, and support plans based on the 2002 Arab Peace Initiative. In the Abbas–Haniyeh draft agreement, Hamas for the first time recognizes the peace agreements between the PLO and Israel.\n\nWhen Abbas in a speech before the UN General Assembly on 21 September claimed that the program for a new government was strictly in line with the Quartet conditions (commitment to the principles of nonviolence, recognition of Israel, and acceptance of previous agreements and obligations, including the Roadmap), he drew, however, strong opposition from more radical members of Hamas. The next day, Haniyeh declared that he would not head a government that recognizes Israel, but he reiterated Hamas' readiness to establish a Palestinian state in the occupied territories and to honor a long-term truce with Israel. On 23 September, Abbas declared the unity effort \"back to zero\" and both parties blamed each other for not respecting the agreement. On 16 December 2006, Abbas unilaterally issued a call for early parliamentary and presidential elections, displeasing Hamas.\n\nOn 8 February 2007, Fatah and Hamas sign the Fatah–Hamas Mecca Agreement, agreeing to stop the military clashes in the Gaza Strip and the formation of a national unity government.\n\nOn 23 March 2008, Hamas and Fatah sign the Sana'a Declaration that called for a return of the Gaza Strip to the pre-June 2007 situation. Disagreement about the interpretation immediately appeared. Fatah said that Hamas should relinquish its hold on Gaza first, while Hamas demanded the reinstatement of the Hamas-led unity government.\n\nOn 8 November 2008, reconciliation talks due to be held in Cairo called off after Hamas announced a boycott in protest at the detention of hundreds of its members by President Abbas's security forces.\n\nAt the end of February 2009, Hamas and Fatah start talks in Cairo after the Israeli assault on Gaza in Operation Cast Lead that began on 27 December 2008 and ended on 18 January 2009.\n\nOn 7 March 2009, Salam Fayyad submits his resignation as prime minister to pave the way for the formation of a national unity government.\n\nOn 12 March 2009, the parties reportedly reach a compromise on the issue of the Palestinian Security Services, and on 15 March on holding presidential and legislative elections by 25 January 2010.\n\nOn 17 March, problems appear on the terms of a national unity government. Fatah clings to adherence to the Quartet conditions, including recognition of Israel and focus on negotiations with Israel, while Hamas wants a majority in a new government and refuses to recognize Israel. The talks stalled in October due to \"inappropriate conditions.\"\n\nIn February 2010, the parties, among other Palestinian groups, held talks aimed at reconciling rival factions. In March, representatives from Fatah and Hamas meet in Damascus.\n\nOn the Doha Debates television show, representatives of Fatah and Hamas discussed the future of the Palestinian leadership.\n\nAfter six rounds of reconciliation talks that resulted in failure, in early September 2010, Cairo did put forward a new document. The document envisioned general elections to be held in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank in the first half of 2010, a reform of Palestinian security services under the Egyptian supervision and the release of political prisoners by both factions. In November, Hamas and Fatah met in Damascus.\n\nOn 27 April 2011, representatives of the two factions announced an agreement, mediated by Egypt, to form a joint caretaker government, with presidential and legislative elections to be held in 2012.\n\nOn 4 May 2011, at a ceremony in Cairo the agreement was formally signed by the Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas and Hamas leader Khaled Meshal. The accord provided for the formation of a \"transitional\" government of technocrats to prepare for legislative and presidential elections in one year. It also permitted the entry of Hamas into the Palestine Liberation Organization and holding elections to its Palestine National Council decision-making body. The Palestinian Authority was to continue to handle security in the West Bank, and Hamas in Gaza Strip. They were aimed to form a joint security committee to decide on future security arrangements.\n\nIsraeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu called the accord \"a mortal blow to peace and a big prize for terror.\" Israel responded to the reconciliation with a punitive withholding of PA taxes. The United States said that it would judge the new Palestinian government by its policies and that it would have to recognize Israel, accept previous agreements with it and renounce violence. Khaled Meshal said that Hamas was prepared to work with Fatah to guide both Palestinian diplomacy and \"resistance in all its forms\" and that Hamas shared the goal of establishing \"a Palestinian state, independent and completely sovereign, on the lands of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, with its capital, Jerusalem, without a single settler, without conceding a single inch and without conceding the right of return\" of Palestinian refugees to their former homes in Israel.\n\nIn June 2011, the negotiations regarding the formation of a unity government were suspended because of disagreements over who the Prime Minister would be. Fatah insisted on keeping Salam Fayyad. Fayyad was unacceptable for Hamas, who wanted a PM from Gaza. The two factions were also divided over how to deal with Israel. While Fatah favored peace with Israel, Hamas rejected international demands to renounce violence and recognition of Israel's right to exist.\n\nAfter the talks were indefinitely postponed, President Abbas focused on a bid for UN recognition for Palestinian statehood in September 2011 instead of forming a unity government. The decision was triggered by the break down of the Israeli–Palestinian peace talks after Netanyahu's refusal to renew a partial freeze on settlement construction in September 2010, and also by Israel's opposition to the Fatah–Hamas deal itself.\n\nOn 30 June 2011, President Abbas expressed his concern over a unity government because of the international opposition, particularly from the US, against a government with any Hamas involvement. He suggested that such a government might be put off at all ahead of a UN vote on statehood.\n\nThe Doha deal, signed by Mahmoud Abbas and Khaled Mashal in February 2012, was described as a step forward in the stalled implementation of the Palestinian reconciliation agreement, signed in Cairo in April 2011.\n\nIn March 2012, Abbas stated that there were no political differences between Hamas and Fatah as they had reached agreement on a joint political platform and on a truce with Israel. Commenting on relations with Hamas, Abbas revealed in an interview with Al-Jazeera that \"We agreed that the period of calm would be not only in the Gaza Strip, but also in the West Bank,\" adding that \"We also agreed on a peaceful popular resistance [against Israel], the establishment of a Palestinian state along the 1967 borders and that the peace talks would continue if Israel halted settlement construction and accepted our conditions.\"\n\nOn 1 April 2012, the reconciliation implementation, however, was described as \"stalling\", with no progress on the joint elections scheme. In addition, Fatah said that Hamas security forces had set up roadblocks and arrested dozens of Fatah members and individuals in Gaza, whom they accused of \"spreading rumors.\" In a letter to Binyamin Netanyahu in April 2012, Abbas expressed his regret that Israeli continued to oppose a reconciliation.\n\nOn May 2012, Hamas and Fatah signed a further agreement in Cairo for a new unity government and implementation of Palestinian elections, three and a half months after the Doha Agreement. The new Cairo agreement essentially took steps to carry out the previous Doha agreement, particularly the registering of new voters in the Gaza Strip and the formation of an interim government.\n\nIn December 2012, in the aftermath of the UN status upgrade of the State of Palestine and the conflict in Gaza, calls for a unified Palestinian front have increased and the political leaders of Hamas and Fatah took several steps to reconcile their differences. In a televised address, PA President Mahmoud Abbas stressed that talks with Hamas would immediately follow the Palestinians' bid to upgrade their status at the UN General Assembly—an effort that succeeded. On 13 December, Fatah allowed Hamas to hold its first rally in the West bank since 2007, and on 4 January 2013, Hamas reciprocated by allowing Fatah supporters to hold a rally in Gaza for the first time since the civil war. On 9 January, it was announced that Khaled Meshaal and Mahmoud Abbas were holding renewed reconciliation talks in Cairo led by Egyptian president Mohammed Morsi.\n\nOn 23 April 2014, Fatah and Hamas signed a new reconciliation agreement, which would see a unity government formed within five weeks, followed by presidential and parliamentary elections within 6 months. On 2 June 2014, President Abbas swore in the new technocratic unity government, headed by the incumbent PM, Rami Hamdallah. The Israeli PM, Benjamin Netanyahu, said that world leaders should not rush to recognize the new government, calling Hamas a terrorist organisation that is committed to the destruction of Israel. The Palestinian PM's office issued a statement denouncing Netanyahu's words as intended to continue Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories. Israel suspended peace talks and announced new sanctions.\n\nAs the Government's work did not make progress, also troubled by massive Israeli raids in the West Bank following the kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenager settlers, and the subsequent major attacks on Gaza during the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict, the parties signed an additional agreement in Cairo on 25 September 2014. This agreement specified the tasks and responsibilities of the new Government.\n\nIn December 2015 and January 2016 Hamas and Fatah secretly held Qatar-brokered talks in Doha to try and complement the 2014 agreement. Talks were renewed on 7-8 February. In this round of negotiations Egypt was not involved. Hamas issued a brief statement on 8 February, saying both parties reached a practical vision of a solution to be discussed and implemented. Fatah leader Abdullah Abdullah said a solution must force Hamas to cede the Gaza Strip and on 23 February, Fatah political figure Jibril Rajoub made a statement about not allowing Hamas to continue to \"seize\" the Gaza Strip. Hamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri criticized Rajoub's statement, saying it raises tensions and do not serve the reconciliation.\n\nRajoub's statements provoked condemnation from Palestinian factions, including Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad as well as the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine, all of which labeled it as detrimental to reconciliation. Hamas demands Fatah's recognition of the events in 2007 and the salary crisis for government employees in Gaza.\n\nYousef Rizqa, the former minister of information in the previous Hamas government, told Al-Monitor, \"The future of the Doha reconciliation talks does not seem positive and we cannot build [a position] upon them in light of the internal Fatah disputes over whether or not to aim for a reconciliation. It seemed to me that the meetings did not offer convincing solutions for fundamental issues, such as the future of the [government] employees in Gaza who have not been paid since 2006 or the Rafah crossing, which is constantly being closed. In addition, Egypt has not given Fatah the green light to complete reconciliation with Hamas, because it seems Cairo will not accept Qatar’s success in a matter in which Egypt has failed.\"\n\nA Qatari official told Al-Monitor that \"Fatah and Hamas agreed not to speak to the media about the details of the reconciliation and avoid statements that could cause tension, in light of past experiences that had previously impeded reconciliation because of statements issued here and there.\"\n\nFollowing the talks Fatah officials have threatened to retake Gaza by force. Hamas affiliated website, the Palestinian Information Center reported on 25 February that Fatah plan to retake Gaza with force by inciting an Israeli military operation and convincing Egypt to destroy the tunnels between the Gaza Strip and Egypt to further isolate the Gaza Strip and limit its military abilities which rely in foreign aid.\n\nIn two visits of Paul Garnier, Switzerland ambassador to the Palestinian Authority, visited Ismail Haniyeh and on 10 May confirmed Switzerland's intention to broker a conference on reconciliation between Hamas and Fatah. Switzerland was trying to find ways to solve the Gaza government employees crisis.\n\nOn 12 October 2017, the Fatah–Hamas Agreement, organised under pressure from Qatar, the UAE and Egypt, was signed in Cairo. In the agreement, it is stipulated that Hamas gives Fatah full civilian control of the Gaza Strip, and in return, Gaza's economic blockade would be eased. In the last few months, Hamas has been under heavy pressure by the PA. Punitive measures included cutting the salaries of PA employees living in Gaza and reducing the electricity supply to the Gaza Strip, which already suffers from an electricity crisis due to the Israeli blockade. 3,000 Palestinian Authority police officers will be placed in the enclave. The head of the PA delegation Azzam al-Ahmad said that the Rafah border crossing between Egypt and Gaza would be operated by the presidential guards of PA President Mahmoud Abbas by November 1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4392426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4392426", "title": "Franz Werfel Human Rights Award", "text": "Franz Werfel Human Rights Award\n\nThe Franz Werfel Human Rights Award () is a human rights award of the German Federation of Expellees' Centre Against Expulsions project. It is awarded to individuals or groups in Europe who, through political, artistic, philosophical or practical work, have opposed breaches of human rights by genocide, ethnic cleansing, and the deliberate destruction of national, ethnic, racial or religious groups.\n\nThe foundations of the prize are considered to be the Fourth Hague Convention of 1907, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, the International Agreement on Civilian and Political Rights of 1966, the resolution of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights of 1998 as well as the consequences of the meeting of the European Council of the Heads of State and Governments in Copenhagen of 1993 and other statements issued by the European Union. \n\nThe award is named after the famous Austrian author Franz Werfel (1890–1945), whose novel \"The Forty Days of Musa Dagh\" famously portrayed the displacement of the Armenians from Turkey and the genocide of the Armenians in 1915/16. \n\nThe award includes € 10,000 of prize money, and is awarded in the Paulskirche in Frankfurt every second year. It was first awarded in 2003.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2193257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2193257", "title": "German African Party", "text": "German African Party\n\nThe German African Party (in German: \"Deutsche Afrikanische Partei\") was a small anti-Nazi political party which existed in South West Africa (currently Namibia) from the 1930s through the 1950s.\n\nThe German African Party was created on February 8, 1939 by Martin Maier as a result of political tensions within a rightist conservative party named \"Deutscher Südwest-Bund (DSWB)\" (or “German Southwest Union”), currently disappeared as well. Like the German Nazi Party \"(National-Sozialistische Deutsche Arbeiter Partei -NSDAP-\", or “National-Socialist Party of the German Workers”), all of these parties were overtly racist, as they only accepted members with German ancestry.\n\nNAMIBIA LIBRARY OF DR. KLAUS DIERKS:\nPolitical parties and organisations.\n(http://www.klausdierks.com/).\n"}
{"id": "43809943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43809943", "title": "Grizzly (.22-caliber rifle)", "text": "Grizzly (.22-caliber rifle)\n\nThe Grizzly and the Grizzly 2.0 is a 3D printed .22-caliber rifle created around August 2013. It was created using a Stratasys Dimension 1200es printer. It was created by a Canadian only known by the pseudo name \"Matthew\" and told The Verge that he is in his late 20s, and his main job is making tools for the construction industry.\n\nThe original Grizzly fired 1 shot then broke Grizzly 2.0 fired 14 bullets before getting damaged due to the strain. According to the Daily Mail, the Grizzly 2.0 performed so well that the inventor \"Matthew\" was able to put it to his shoulder and shot off three rounds with the rifle pressed against his cheek without hurting him.\n\nThe “Grizzly 2.0″ has 50 percent larger barrel with a rifled bore, a larger receiver and new hammer. In a video posted online by the creator, the Grizzly seemed to have successfully fired a Winchester Dynapoint .22-caliber bullet, like the Liberator .380. The only metal in the Grizzly is a 1-inch roofing nail plus whatever metal is in the cartridge.\n\nThe printer used to make the rifle was a Stratasys Dimension 1200es printer costing $10,000 as of August 2013. It was made using ABS plastic.\n\n\"Matthew\" said the rifle had taken 3 days to build, and about 27 hours to print it. He revealed it took him 13 hours to print the receiver, 6.5 hours to print the barrel, 5 hours to print the stock and 2 hours to print the rifle's internal parts.\n\n"}
{"id": "37925365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37925365", "title": "Hayazn", "text": "Hayazn\n\nHayazn () is an Armenian nationalist political party, that was founded as a civil organization in 2009. It declared itself a political party in 2013 and was registered as such in 2014.\n\nHayazn had stated its opposition to Armenia's possible integration into the European Union or to the Eurasian Customs Union that included at the time a customs union of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia]]. Hayazn had also called on the Armenian government to opt out of the European Neighbourhood Policy in the past.\n\nHayazn also opposes any official recognition by Armenia of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. Instead Hayazn supports the actual unification of the Nagorno-Karabakh areas as an integral part of the Republic of Armenia, turning Karabakh into an additional Armenian province within the borders of an expanded Armenian Republic.\n\nHayazn also advocates in case of a war between Armenia and Azerbaijan, to \"liberate\" historical Armenian provinces of Gandzak and Nakhitchevan, presently within the territorial areas of Azerbaijan.\n\nIn internal affairs, Hayazn is opposed to Serzh Sargsyan's government and has condemned its internal and foreign policies, in particular the way it handles the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict within the OSCE Minsk Group. The party called for a \"no\" vote in the 2015 constitutional referendum\n\nAlthough Hayazn was not registered as a political party, and couldn't legally participate in the 2012 parliamentary election, but nonetheless it refused to participate. It blamed mainstream opposition parties (Armenian Revolutionary Federation, Armenian National Congress, Heritage) for not being \"pro-people\", and the government for electoral fraud which resulted in the formation of, what they call, an illegitimate government.\n\nIn June 2011, the union started to collect signatures for the citizenship of Jirair Sefilian, a Lebanese-born Armenian military commander of the Nagorno-Karabakh War. More than 4,000 signatures were gathered. However, the relationship with Sefilian deteriorated, when on September 2, 2013 Hayazn members reportedly attacked and beat-up Varuszhan Avetisyan, the press secretary and member of the Pre-Parliament.\n\nOn September 1, 2012, Hayazn organized a protest during which several of its members burnt the Hungarian flag as an act of protest against Ramil Safarov's release to Azerbaijan. They also demanded the resignation of the Foreign Minister Eduard Nalbandyan.\n\nOn May 21, 2012 Hayazn organized a parallel march in opposition to the first of its kind \"Diversity march\" organized by the LGBT community of Armenia. The march was stopped prematurely, because LGBT activists were afraid of their safety. On October 10, 2012, Hayazn organized a protest in front of Germany's embassy in Yerevan by the union against the presentation of the film \"The Parade\" about gay activism in Serbia. The union stated that they would not tolerate \"propaganda of immorality\". During anti-Putin protests on December 2, 2013, several members of Hayazn attacked LGBT rights activist and demanded that they do not fly the Rainbow flag during the protests.\n\nThroughout spring 2013, Hayazn was a vocal opponent of leasing land in Syunik Province for Iranian pastures.\n\nHayazn took an active role in the anti-government protests throughout 2013. On December 2, 2013 along with several political parties, they took to the streets to protest Russia's president Vladimir Putin's visit to Armenia and Serzh Sargsyan's decision to join the Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Russia.\n"}
{"id": "1384070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1384070", "title": "Independence Temple", "text": "Independence Temple\n\nThe Temple in Independence, Missouri, is a house of worship and education \"dedicated to the pursuit of peace\". It dominates the skyline of Independence, Missouri, USA, and has become the focal point of the headquarters of the Community of Christ (formerly, the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints). The temple was built by the Community of Christ in response to a \"revelation\" presented to their 1984 World Conference by church prophet-president Wallace B. Smith. The revelation culminated instructions shared over the course of more than 150 years by prior prophet-presidents recognized by the Community of Christ. Groundbreaking for the temple took place Friday 6 April 1990, and the completed structure was dedicated on Sunday 17 April 1994.\n\n The temple was designed by Gyo Obata and evokes the spiral shell of the Nautilus with a stainless steel spire that rises . The facility displays art which comprises a collection of modern and traditional religious art from around the world. The entry to the sanctuary is through a beautifully etched glass archway depicting the Sacred Grove where Joseph Smith had his initial revelatory experience. This leads to the gently ascending worshiper's path of textured stone which spirals around its periphery. Along the path are artworks and a fountain symbolizing the \"living water\" of John 4:10 for meditative focus. The temple's main sanctuary has seating for approximately 1,600. It houses a Casavant pipe organ with 60 stops, 102 ranks, and 5685 pipes. At the exit foyer in the mouth of the spiral, \"The Field is White, Already to Harvest\" (see John: 4:35) is a large stained glass wall depicting rice and wheat, that earned an American Institute of Architects award for religious art. Adjacent are the massive bronze exit doors which carry the church seal depicting the peaceful lion, lamb, and child from Isaiah 11:6 and the word \"PEACE\". The wide steps open up onto a world plaza with global map of inlaid brick.\n\nThe public is welcomed to the temple, where there is a Daily Prayer for Peace at 1:00 p.m. Central Time on behalf of a selected nation of the world. A meditation chapel with paintings by Jack Garnier of the Sacraments being performed around the world opens onto a Japanese style meditation garden and serves the needs of individuals or small groups of visitors. The temple also contains the church archives, the Temple School, administrative offices of church headquarters, theaters used for visitors and also for meetings, presentations, and classes, a museum and gift shop. The building has become a popular attraction with guided tours available. Approximately 60,000 people visit the temple each year.\n\nThe temple is regarded as a symbol of the church's mission and has long been closely associated with the denomination's developing theology of Zion, or the peaceable Kingdom of God, first advocated as basileia tou theou by Jesus Christ. The first major event held at the Temple prior to its dedication, was the International Women's Conference in June 1993. The Temple has no private ceremonies and is open to everyone. The sacraments performed there are Communion, Administration to the Sick (Laying on of Hands), and Ordination. Initially, six temple ministries centers were created in response to the building of the Temple. The temple according to Ken Robinson, former member of the First Presidency,\"gives form to our commitment to Jesus Christ\" and that it \"is at the center of meaning and identity for members of the Community of Christ\" \n\nWallace B. Smith's great-grandfather and founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, Joseph Smith, visited Jackson County in 1831 and prophesied that a temple to the Lord would be built there. The early Latter Day Saints purchased a parcel of land known as the \"greater temple lot.\" At that time a portion of the property was dedicated as the site for a temple, and cornerstones were laid. However, the church members were driven from the county before any construction began. The original temple site proper is now owned by the Church of Christ (Temple Lot).\n\nThe Community of Christ's temple is built on the greater temple lot, as is the Auditorium, the headquarters chapel of the Church of Christ (Temple Lot) and a visitor center from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\n\nThe Community of Christ also owns the temple in Kirtland, Ohio, the first temple actually built (rather than merely planned) by the Latter Day Saint movement, which continues to be a place of worship and education. As part of its educational ministry that site is open as a National Historic Landmark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53886426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53886426", "title": "Indian Hemp Decree (Nigeria)", "text": "Indian Hemp Decree (Nigeria)\n\nThe Indian Hemp Decree (or the Indian Hemp Act) was enacted in Nigeria on 31 March 1966 by Major General Aguiyi Ironsi. The act was preceded by the Dangerous Drug Ordinance of 1935, which restricted opium and other drugs.\n\n"}
{"id": "48587132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48587132", "title": "International Solar Alliance", "text": "International Solar Alliance\n\nThe International Solar Alliance (ISA) is an alliance of more than 121 countries initiated by India, most of them being sunshine countries, which lie either completely or partly between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. The primary objective of the alliance is to work for efficient exploitation of solar energy to reduce dependence on fossil fuels. This initiative was first proposed by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a speech in November 2015 at Wembley Stadium, in which he referred to sunshine countries as \"Suryaputra\" (\"Sons of the Sun\"). The alliance is a treaty-based inter-governmental organization. Countries that do not fall within the Tropics can join the alliance and enjoy all benefits as other members, with the exception of voting rights.\n\nThe initiative was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the India Africa Summit, and a meeting of member countries ahead of the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris in November 2015. The framework agreement of the International Solar Alliance opened for signatures in Marrakech, Morocco in November 2016, and 121 countries have joined.\n\nIt is headquartered in India. In January 2016, Narendra Modi, and the then French President François Hollande jointly laid the foundation stone of the ISA Headquarters and inaugurated the interim Secretariat at the National Institute of Solar Energy (NISE) in Gwal Pahari, Gurugram, India. The Indian government has dedicated five acres of land on the NISE campus for its future headquarters; it also has contributed to the fund to build a campus and for meeting expenditures for the first five years.\n\nThe alliance is also called International Agency for Solar Policy and Application (IASPA).\n\nThe focus is on solar power utilization. The launching of such an alliance in Paris also sends a strong signal to the global communities about the sincerity of the developing nations towards their concern about climate change and to switch to a low-carbon growth path. India has pledged a target of installing 100GW by 2022 and reduction in emission intensity by 33–35% by 2030 to let solar energy reach to the most unconnected villages and communities and also towards creating a clean planet. India's pledge to the Paris summit offered to bring 40% of its electricity generation capacity (not actual production) from non-fossil sources (renewable, large hydro, and nuclear) by 2030.\nit is based on world co operation.\n\nThe area of Earth located in between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn is called the tropical (torrid) zone. The points on the Tropic of Cancer are the northernmost points up to which the Sun can pass directly overhead. Similarly, the southernmost points are on the Tropic of Capricorn which follow the same criteria. Location at the north of the Tropic of Cancer shows the Sun appearing at the south of the zenith. The sunniest countries of the world are on the African continent, ranging from Somalia- Horn of Africa-, east to Niger, west and north to Egypt.\n\nFor India, the possible additional benefit from the alliance can be the strengthening ties and with the major African countries increase goodwill for India among them.\n\nThe alliance is a treaty-based inter-governmental organization. The framework agreement of the International Solar Alliance opened for signatures in Marrakech, Morocco in November 2016, on the sidelines of the Marrakech Climate Change Conference (the twenty-second session of the Conference of the Parties, or COP 22). On its first day (15 November), sixteen countries signed the Agreement: India, Brazil, the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Dominican Republic, the Republic of Guinea, Mali; Nauru; Niger; Tanzania; Tuvalu; Cambodia; Ethiopia; Burkina Faso; Bangladesh and Madagascar. By 17 November, Guinea Bissau, Fiji, France, \nOn November 6, 2017 India ' s External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj held a meeting with Guinea’s Foreign Minister, Mamady Toure. During the course of this meeting, Mamady Toure handed over Guinea’s Instrument of Accession to the India-initiated International Solar Alliance (ISA).\nVanuatu and Liberia also signed the agreement.\n\nSubsequently, an additional 107 countries joined the agreement, including all major countries that lie between the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn, including Mexico, Peru, Chile, Argentina, Paraguay, Brazil, India, Australia, New Zealand, and China. A conclave started from 30 November 2015 for the sunshine grouping, called the InSPA (International Agency for Solar Policy & Application).\n\nThe following countries are the prospective members of this alliance who have signed the framework. Countries marked with a plus have also ratified the framework. Myanmar is the latest country to join this alliance.\n\nApart from these there are 55 other members, making a total of 121 members to the alliance.\n\nThe alliance has partnered with World Bank to launch Global Solar Atlas at an ISA event at the World Future Energy Summit in Abu Dhabi. Global Solar Atlas is a free online tool that displays annual average solar power potential at any location in the world and thus identify potential sites for solar power generation. World Bank announced \"This tool will help governments save millions of dollars on their own research and provide investors and solar developers with an easily accessible and uniform platform to compare resource potential between sites in one region or across multiple countries.\"\n\nRiccardo Puliti, Senior Director and Head of the World Bank’s Energy & Extractives Global Practice said \"“The World Bank is seeing a surge of interest from our clients in solar power as a result of the dramatic cost decreases over the past few years. We hope that the Global Solar Atlas will help inform the crucial planning and investment decisions that will need to be taken over the next decade to shift to more sustainable forms of energy.”\" Piyush Goyal, Power Minister of India said \"“This new tool will assist governments and investors to obtain an initial indication of solar resource potential before carrying out their own more detailed analysis.”\"\n\nIndia, with the support of France, has invited nations to facilitate infrastructure for implementation of solar projects. The alliance has been committed $1 tn as investment, and it is committed to making the costs of solar power more affordable for remote and inaccessible communities. The alliance will endorse India in achieving its goal of generating 100GW of solar energy and 175GW of renewable energy by 2022. The countries shall support each other in research and development as well as other high level activities.\n\nIt is also seen as an alliance by the developing countries to form a united front and to undertake research and development for making solar power equipment within developing countries.\n\nOn June 30, 2016, the alliance entered into an understanding with the World Bank for accelerating mobilization of finance for solar energy. The Bank will have a major role in mobilizing more than US $1000 billion in investments that will be needed by 2030, to meet ISA’s goals for the massive deployment of affordable solar energy.\nTill date 48 countries have signed and 26 countries have ratified the Framework Agreement of the ISA. With ratifications by 15 countries, the ISA will become a treaty based inter-governmental international organisation and it will be recognized by UN legally to become fully functionable.\n\nAt the World Future Energy Summit (WFES) held in Abu Dhabi in January 2018, the government of India announced the establishment of a $350 million solar development fund to enable financing of solar projects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23472665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23472665", "title": "LGBT rights under communism", "text": "LGBT rights under communism\n\nLGBT rights under communism have evolved radically throughout history. In the 20th century, Marxist states and parties varied on LGBT rights, with some being among the first political parties to support LGBT rights, while others maintained anti-LGBT views. In the 21st century, communist parties in the West are generally pro-LGBT rights.\n\nCommunist leaders and intellectuals took many different positions on LGBT-rights issues. Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels said very little on the subject in their published works. Marx in particular commented rarely on sexuality in general. Norman Markowitz, writing for politicalaffairs.net, writes that: \"Here, to be frank, one finds from Marx a refusal to entertain the subject, and from Engels open hostility to the individuals involved.\" This is because, in private, Engels criticized male homosexuality and related it to ancient Greek pederasty, saying that \"[the ancient Greeks] fell into the abominable practice of sodomy [original German ', meaning \"boylove\" or pederasty<nowiki>]</nowiki> and degraded alike their gods and themselves with the myth of Ganymede\"; Engels also said that the pro-pederast movement \"cannot fail to triumph. ' [war on the cunts, peace to the arse-holes] will now be the slogan\". Engels also referred to Karl Boruttau as a \"\" (faggotty prick) in private.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of Homosexuality\" volume two is unequivocal on Marx and Engels view of homosexuality, stating that, \"There can be little doubt that, as far as they thought of the matter at all, Marx and Engels were personally homo-phobic, as shown by an acerbic 1869 exchange of letter on Jean-Baptiste von Schweitzer, a German socialist rival. Schweitzer had been arrested in a park on a morals charge and not only did Marx and Engels refuse to join a committee defending him, they resorted to the cheapest form of bathroom humor in their private comments about the affair.\"\n\nThe Communist Party of Germany, during the Weimar Republic, joined with the Social Democrats in support of efforts to legalize private homosexual relations between consenting adults. Yet, the situation for LGBT rights in the first Communist government in Russia was somewhat mixed.\n\nIn the early Soviet Union the Communist Party abolished all oppressive Czarist laws in 1917 related to sexuality. In 1917 the Soviet government also decriminalised homosexuality, and the subsequent Soviet criminal code in the 1920s did not criminalize non-commercial same-sex sexuality between consenting adults in private. It also provided for no-fault divorce and legalized abortion. However, outside the Russian SSR and Ukrainian SSR, homosexuality remained a criminal offense in certain Soviet republics in the 1920s (particularly the Muslim-dominated Soviet Republics in Central Asia) and Soviet policy was often inconsistent in terms of pursuing homosexual rights and wider legal/social equality for homosexual people. Official Soviet policy on homosexuality in the 1920s also fluctuated: between legal and social tolerance of homosexuals and homosexuality to state attempts to classify homosexuality as a mental disorder.\n\nIn 1933, Joseph Stalin added Article 121 to the entire Soviet Union criminal code, which made male homosexuality a crime punishable by up to five years in prison with hard labor. The precise reason for Article 121 is in some dispute among historians. The few official government statements made about the law tended to confuse homosexuality with pedophilia and was tied up with a belief that homosexuality was practiced only among fascists or the aristocracy.\n\nThe law remained intact until after the dissolution of the Soviet Union; it was repealed in 1993.\n\nAccording to \"RT\", the law against homosexuality led to \"several hundred people [being] charged with it every year\" and it \"was also a convenient tool for smears and was tacked onto spying allegations during the NKVD purges\".\n\nGay men were sometimes denied membership or expelled from communist parties across the globe during the 20th Century, as most communist parties followed the social precedents set by the USSR. However, this was not the case in the West.\n\nNotable gay members of Communist parties include:\n\nThe phrase originated in Weimar Germany in the 1920s by Pastor Ludwig Hoppe of Berlin as a more general term of approbation at licentiousness. When Nazi Germany came into being after the failures of the Weimar government, the Nazis used the term \"sexual Bolshevism\" to refer to perceived sexual degeneracy, in particular homosexuality.\n\nIn the early 1920s western communist party leaders propagated the view that the increase in homosexuality and the open discussion of homosexuality were caused by capitalism \"in its death throes\". In their view, homosexuality would vanish.\n\nAfter Hitler's seizure of power (the \"\"), Marxist intellectuals correlated fascism with homosexuality. Soviet writer Maxim Gorky remarked, \"Exterminate all homosexuals and fascism will vanish.\"\n\nThe advance of doctors, psychologists and social workers into the arena of human sexuality during the Weimar era (as well as the feminist movement) threw up a variety of conspiracy theories, especially amongst more conservative aspects of society, regarding communism and homosexuality. Any form of sexual revolution was derided as promiscuity and leading to a rise in sexually transmitted infections. The response of those who opposed \"sexual Bolshevism\" was to promote eugenics and family values.\n\nThere are specific events which glbtq.com (\"an encyclopedia of gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and queer culture\") claims to have contributed to the linkage of communism with homosexuality in the United States, as well:\nFor example, in 1948, Whittaker Chambers, an editor and writer at \"Time magazine\" and a former Communist Party member and courier in a Soviet spy ring infiltrating the American government, accused Alger Hiss, head of the Carnegie Endowment, of perjury and, implicitly, of Soviet espionage. The vast media coverage of the scandal hinted that Chambers had a crush on Hiss, establishing a link between Communism and homosexuality. Chambers was only too eager to strengthen this link, declaring to the FBI that his homosexual activities had stopped once he had left the Communist Party. In addition, the 1951 flight to the Soviet Union of gay British spies Guy Burgess and Donald Maclean also helped fuel the association of homosexuality and treason in the public imagination.\n\nDuring the height of the McCarthy era (in the late 1940s and early 1950s), American senator Joseph McCarthy associated homosexuality and communism as \"threats to the \"American way of life.\" In both cases, association with sickness and disease provided means of legitimating isolation from impressionable young people.\" Homosexuality was directly linked to security concerns, and more government employees were dismissed because of their sexual orientation than because they were left-winged or communist politically. George Chauncey noted that, \"The specter of the invisible homosexual, like that of the invisible communist, haunted Cold War America,\" and homosexuality (and homosexuals) were constantly referred to not only as a disease, but also as an invasion, like the perceived danger of communism.\n\nMcCarthy often used accusations of homosexuality as a smear tactic in his anti-communist crusade, often combining the Second Red Scare with the lavender scare. On one occasion, he went so far as to announce to reporters, \"If you want to be against McCarthy, boys, you've got to be either a Communist or a cocksucker.\" Some historians have argued that, in linking communism and homosexuality and psychological imbalance, McCarthy was employing guilt-by-association if evidence for communist activity was lacking.\n\nSenator Kenneth Wherry similarly attempted to invoke a connection between homosexuality and anti-nationalism. He said in an interview with Max Lerner that \"You can't hardly separate homosexuals from subversives.\" Later in that same interview he drew the line between patriotic Americans and gay men: \"But look Lerner, we're both Americans, aren't we? I say, let's get these fellows [closeted gay men in government positions] out of the government.\"\n\nConnections between gay rights groups and radical leftists were not merely a figment of the imaginations of demagogues. The Mattachine Society, one of the earliest gay rights groups in the United States, was founded by Harry Hay, a former member of the Communist Party USA, who was kicked out of the gay rights group he'd founded for his ties to the party.\n\nFamous ex-communist former Soviet agent Whittaker Chambers notably spent his time in the left-wing underground pursuing both homosexual and heterosexual affairs, but he kept his liaisons quiet since his communist associates despised homosexuality. Chambers later monogamously married the pacifist painter Esther Shemitz, working as a journalist and editor.\n\nSince the mid-1970s some parties in the Western world have begun to adopt homosexual rights as part of their platform. The Communist Party of Greece, like the Communist Party of the Russian Federation, have rejected this move and continue to focus exclusively on worker politics. The party voted against the \"Civil Partnerships Bill\" proposed by Syriza, responding that \"with the formation of a socialist-communist society, a new type of partnership will undoubtedly be formed—a relatively stable heterosexual relationship and reproduction\"\n\nThe Communist Party of the Russian Federation and its Leader Gennady Zyuganov supported the Russian gay propaganda law.\n\nThe Revolutionary Communist Party USA's policy that \"struggle will be waged to eliminate [homosexuality] and reform homosexuals\" was \"abandoned\" in 2001. The RCP now claims to support the gay liberation movement. Meanwhile, the American Socialist Workers Party (SWP) in the US released a memo stating that gay oppression had less \"social weight\" than black and women's struggles, and prohibited members from being involved in gay political organizations. They also believed that too close an association with gay liberation would give the SWP an \"exotic image\" and alienate it from the masses. Several non-governing communist parties have made statements supporting LGBT rights, such as the Communist Party USA, which supports extending marriage to same-sex couples and passing laws against discrimination based on one's sexual orientation. The League for the Revolutionary Party, a communist party based in New York City, issued a statement shortly after the passage of California's Proposition 8 condemning the amendment; reaffirming their support for same-sex marriage and expressing their views on how gay liberation is essential to the communist philosophy.\n\nThe New People's Army, a communist insurgency within the Philippines has also made several statements supporting equal rights of same-sex couples and gay individuals; performing the first same-sex marriage in the country and officially endorsing such legislation if they were to come to power. They also went farther to express their support for same-sex relationships, and gay and lesbians were allowed to serve in their forces before the entire country. Other communist parties present in Germany and other European countries have also officially endorsed LGBT rights, including the right to same-sex marriage, and some even have extensive LGBT platforms in their parties, such as the German Communist Party's \"DKP Queer\". The chairman of the Communist Party of Finland is openly homosexual and the party also participates in the LGBT working group of the European Left Party. In recent elections held in 2013 at Jawaharlal Nehru University, the student's wing of CPI(M) nominated a gay person as its candidate for key position in the central panel.\n\nThe Communist Party of Great Britain (CPGB), viewed the working-class as male and heterosexually masculine. The accounts of gay party members show that homosexuality was widely seen as incompatible with a working-class identity during this era, despite Mark Ashton (founder of Lesbians and Gays Support the Miners) being General Secretary of the Young Communist League (the youth wing of the CPGB) \"without compromising the politics of their sexuality\".\n\nIn North Korea, LGBT rights are very limited and the subject of homosexuality remains taboo. While the government proclaims tolerance for gay people and has stated its belief that homosexuality is not a choice and rather due to genetic factors, it rejects the alleged \"promiscuity and classism\" of gay culture in the West.\n\nThe Hoxhaist regime in Albania penalized same-sex sexual intercourse with long prison terms, bullying and ostracism. Article 137 of the Crimes against Societal Moral of the Penal Code stated that: \"Pederasty is punishable or up to ten years of freedom privation\". The word \"pederasty\" was used as a code word for sex between two consenting adults or sex between an adult and a child of any gender.\n\nSame-sex sexual intercourse was always legal in the People's Republic of Benin. The People's Republic of Benin adopted a 1947 amendment to the Penal Code of 1877 under the Republic of Dahomey that fixed a general age limit of 13 for sex with a child of either gender, but penalized any act that is indecent or against nature if committed with a person of the same sex under 21: \"Without prejudice to more severe penalties prescribed by the paragraphs that precede or by Articles 332 and 333 of this Code, shall be punished with imprisonment from six months to three years and a fine of 200 to 50,000 francs anyone who commits an indecent act or [an act] against nature with a minor ... of the same sex under 21 years old.\"\n\nThe People's Republic of Bulgaria retained the penal code of the Kingdom of Bulgaria, that criminalized male same-sex sexual intercourse over 16 years of age with at least 6 months of imprisonment. The Penal Code of 13 March 1951 increased the penalty to up to 3 years in jail. The revised Penal Code of 1 May 1968 legalized male same-sex intercourse.\n\nSame-sex sexual intercourse was always legal in the People's Republic of the Congo.\n\nIn 1962, the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic decriminalized same-sex sexual intercourse after scientific research of Kurt Freund led to the conclusion that homosexual orientation may not be changed.\n\nIn the Soviet occupation zone of Germany, the development of law was not uniform. The government of Thuringia moderated Paragraphs 175 and 175a in a manner similar to that contemplated in the draft criminal code of 1925, while in the other states (') the 1935 version of the statute remained in effect without changes. Although in 1946 the \"Committee for Law Examination\" of East Berlin specifically advised not to include § 175 StGB in a new criminal code, this recommendation had no consequences. The Provincial High Court in Halle (', or \") decided for Saxony-Anhalt in 1948 that Paragraphs 175 and 175a were to be seen as injustice perpetrated by the Nazis, because a progressive juridical development had been broken off and even been reversed. Homosexual acts were to be tried only according to the laws of the Weimar Republic.\n\nIn 1950, one year after being reconstituted as the German Democratic Republic, the Berlin Appeal Court (\") decided for all of East Germany to reinstate the validity of the old, pre-1935 form of Paragraph 175. However, in contrast to the earlier action of the , the new Paragraph 175a remained unchanged, because it was said to protect society against \"socially harmful homosexual acts of qualified character\". From 1953 to 1957, following Uprising of 1953 in East Germany, the GDR government instituted a program of \"moral reform\" to build a solid foundation for the new socialist republic, in which masculinity and the traditional family were championed while homosexuality, seen to contravene \"healthy mores of the working people\", continued to be prosecuted under Paragraph 175. Same-sex sexual intercourse was \"alternatively viewed as a remnant of bourgeois decadence, a sign of moral weakness, and a threat to the social and political health of the nation.\"\n\nIn 1954 the same court decided that Paragraph 175a in contrast to Paragraph 175 did not presuppose acts tantamount to sexual intercourse. Lewdness (') was defined as any act that is performed to arouse sexual excitement and \"violates the moral sentiment of our workers.\" A revision of the criminal code in 1957 made it possible to put aside prosecution of an illegal action that represented no danger to socialist society because of lack of consequence. This removed Paragraph 175 from the effective body of the law, because at the same time the East Berlin Court of Appeal (') decided that all punishments deriving from the old form of Paragraph 175 should be suspended due to the insignificance of the acts to which it had been applied. On this basis, homosexual acts between consenting adults ceased to be punished, beginning in the late 1950s.\n\nIn 1968 homosexuality was officially decriminalised in East Germany.\n\nGay social clubs and groups were allowed to organize themselves freely, so long as they made tenuous links with Protestant Churches. This was because the official position of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany party was to outlaw discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, but to otherwise ignore that LGBT relationships existed. On July 1, 1968, the GDR adopted its own code of criminal law. In it § 151 StGB-DDR provided for a sentence up to three years' imprisonment or probation for an adult (18 and over) who engaged in sexual acts with a youth (under 18) of the same sex. This law applied not only to men who have sex with boys but equally to women who have sex with girls. According to historian Heidi Minning, attempts by lesbians and gay men in East Germany to establish a visible community were \"thwarted at every turn by the G.D.R. government and SED party.\" She writes:\nPolice force was used on numerous occasions to break up or prevent public gay and lesbian events. Centralized censorship prevented the presentation of homosexuality in print and electronic media, as well as the import of such materials.\n\nIn the late 1980s, the East German government opened a state-owned gay disco in Berlin. In 1987, the age of consent was equalized for same-sex intercourse in East Germany. On August 11, 1987 the Supreme Court of the GDR struck down a conviction under Paragraph 151 on the basis that \"homosexuality, just like heterosexuality, represents a variant of sexual behavior. Homosexual people do therefore not stand outside socialist society, and the civil rights are warranted to them exactly as to all other citizens.\" One year later, the (the parliament of the GDR), in its fifth revision of the criminal code, brought the written law in line with what the court had ruled, striking Paragraph 151 without replacement. The act passed into law May 30, 1989. This removed all specific reference to homosexuality from East German criminal law. In 1989, the German film titled \"Coming Out\" directed by Heiner Carow was exhibited on the night that the Berlin wall came down, and tells a story of an East German man coming to accept his own homosexuality, with much of it shot in the local gay bars. This was the only East German LGBT rights film.\n\nThe Provisional Military Government of Socialist Ethiopia and People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia adopted the previous Penal Code of 1957 of the Ethiopian Empire, which criminalizes anyone who \"performs with another person of the same sex an act corresponding to the sexual act, or any other indecent act, is punishable with simple imprisonment.\"\n\nThe Hungarian People's Republic adopted the penal code of the Kingdom of Hungary punished male same-sex sexual intercourse with prison up to 1 year. In 1961, male same-sex sexual intercourse above the age of 20 was decriminalized. In 1978, a new penal code lowered the age of consent to the age of 18 years old.\n\nIn 1961, same-sex sexual intercourse was decriminalized in the Mongolian People's Republic.\n\nSame-sex sexual intercourse was always legal during the existence of the Republic of Poland and the Polish People's Republic.\n\nHowever the government used homosexuality to blackmail homosexuals and the police harassed gay men and lesbians. Many homosexual men were arrested in 1985 in “Operation Hyacinth.”\n\nThe Romanian People's Republic and the Socialist Republic of Romania adopted the Romanian Penal Code of 1937 from the Kingdom of Romania, which banned public \"acts of sexual inversion committed between men or between women, if provoking public scandal\". In 1948, this \"public\" homosexuality was considerate by court, that it include all situations whatever public or private if \"provoking scandal\", thus homosexuality became \"de facto\" illegal. In the new Penal Code of the Romanian People's Republic, old Article 431 toughens penalties to a minimum of 2 years and a maximum of 5 years. In 1957 already disappears the \"public scandal\" and any consenting sexual intercourse between persons of the same sex is criminalized. After Nicolae Ceaușescu's rise to power, in 1968, the basic code was again revised, introducing Article 200 and moving the infraction from the public domain into the private:\n\nArticle 200 was purposeful to Ceaușescu regime in that, since 1970, it offered a pry to strengthen social control. These restrictions under the Penal Code were strictly unique to Romania and no other European country. The restrictions only included relationships and those who considered themselves homosexual were not punished but were instead considered as mentally ill.\n\nUnder Article 409 of the Somali Penal Code introduced in 1973, sexual intercourse with a person of the same sex is punishable by imprisonment from three months to three years in the Somali Democratic Republic. An \"act of lust\" other than sexual intercourse is punishable by a prison term of two months to two years. Under Article 410 of the Somali Penal Code, an additional security measure may accompany sentences for homosexual acts, usually coming in the form of police surveillance to prevent \"re-offending\". Threats have been made that indicate that Somalia tolerates executions of homosexuals.\n\nIn November 1917, after the October Revolution, the Tsarist criminal code was abrogated by the Bolsheviks, thus legalizing same-sex sexual intercourse between consenting adults in the Russian SSR and the later Ukrainian SSR. However this policy was not uniform across all the Soviet Republics which emerged after 1922. The Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, and Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic were all created with no laws criminalising same-sex sexual intercourse. In 1923, the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic sexual intercourse between men became a criminal offense punishable by up to five years in prison for consenting adults, or up to eight years if it involved force or threat.\n\nIn 1926, Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic criminalized male same-sex intercourse. In 1927, Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic criminalized male same-sex intercourse. Male same-sex intercourse was also illegal in Bukharan People's Soviet Republic, Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic, Nakhichenan Soviet Republic, and Socialist Soviet Republic of Abkhazia.\n\nThe Soviet Union sent delegates to the German Institute for Sexual Science, as well as to some international conferences on human sexuality, who expressed support for the legalization of adult, private, and consensual homosexual relations.\n\nSoviet social policy in the 1920s regarding homosexuality and homosexual rights was mixed. On the one hand homosexuality was legal in the Russian and Ukrainian Soviet Republics and certain political and civil rights in the Soviet Union were extended to homosexuals. On the other hand, there was increasing pressure from both within and outside the Soviet government to recriminalise homosexuality and to reinstate bans on homosexual intercourse. In the late 1920s Soviet medical research increasingly came to classify homosexuality as a mental disease or as a remnant of bourgeois society.\n\nRelative Soviet tolerance for homosexuality and homosexual rights ended in the late 1920s — as Soviet society came increasingly under Stalinist control. In the 1930s, along with increased repression of political dissidents and non-Russian nationalities under Stalin, LGBT themes faced official government censorship, and a uniformly harsher policy across the entire Soviet Union. Homosexuality was officially labelled a disease. The official stance could be summarized in the article of the \"Great Soviet Encyclopedia\" of 1930 written by medical expert Sereisky:\n\nSoviet legislation does not recognize so-called crimes against morality. Our laws proceed from the principle of protection of society and therefore countenance punishment only in those instances when juveniles and minors are the objects of homosexual interest ... while recognizing the incorrectness of homosexual development ... our society combines prophylactic and other therapeutic measures with all the necessary conditions for making the conflicts that afflict homosexuals as painless as possible and for resolving their typical estrangement from society within the collective\n\nIn 1934 the Soviet government recriminalised homosexuality in the Soviet Union. On March 7, 1934, Article 121 was added to the criminal code, throughout the entire Soviet Union, expressly prohibited only male same-sex sexual intercourse, with up to five years of hard labor in prison. There were no criminal statutes regarding lesbianism. During the Soviet period, Western observers believed that between 800 and 1,000 men were imprisoned each year under Article 121.\n\nSome historians have noted that it was during this time that Soviet propaganda began to depict homosexuality as a sign of fascism, and that Article 121 may have a simple political tool to use against dissidents, irrespective of their true sexual orientation, and to solidify Russian opposition to Nazi Germany, who had broken its treaty with Russia. More recently, a third possible reason for the anti-gay law has emerged from declassified Soviet documents and transcripts. Beyond expressed fears of a vast \"counterrevolutionary\" or fascist homosexual conspiracy, there were several high-profile arrests of Russian men accused of being pederasts. In 1933, 130 men \"were accused of being 'pederasts' – adult males who have sex with boys. Since no records of men having sex with boys at that time are available, it is possible this term was used broadly and crudely to label homosexuality.\" Whatever the precise reason, homosexuality remained a serious criminal offense until it was repealed in 1993.\n\nThe Soviet government itself said very little publicly about the change in the law, and few people seemed to be aware that it existed. In 1934, the British Communist Harry Whyte wrote a long letter to Stalin condemning the law, and its prejudicial motivations. He laid out a Marxist position against the oppression of homosexuals, as a social minority, and compared homophobia to racism, xenophobia and sexism. While the letter was not formally replied to, Soviet cultural writer Maxim Gorky authored an article, published in both \"Pravda\" and \"Izvestia\" titled \"Proletarian Humanism\", that seemed to reject Whyte's arguments point by point. He rejected the notion that homosexuals were a social minority, and argued that the Soviet Union, governed by \"manly proletariat\", is obliged to persecute homosexuals to protect the youth from their corrupting effect. He also equated homosexuality with fascism, stating that destroying homosexuality would in turn destroy fascism. In 1936, Justice Commissar Nikolai Krylenko publicly stated that the anti-gay criminal law was aimed at the decadent and effete old ruling classes.\n\nDuring Nikita Khrushchev's regime, the Khruschev government believed that absent of a criminal law against same-sex sexual intercourse, the sex between men that occurred in the prison environment would spread into the general population as they released many Stalin-era prisoners. Whereas the Stalin government conflated homosexuality with pedophilia, the Khrushchev government conflated homosexuality with the situational, sometimes forced, sex acts between male prisoners.\n\nIn 1958, the Interior Ministry sent a secret memo to law enforcement ordering them to step up enforcement of the anti-gay criminal law. Yet, during the late 1950s – early 1960s, Aline Mosby, a foreign reporter in Russia at the time, attributed to the more liberal attitude of the Khrushchev government to the fact that she did see some gay couples in public and that it was not uncommon to see men waiting outside of certain theaters looking for dates with male performers.\n\nA 1964 Soviet sex manual instructed: \"With all the tricks at their disposal, homosexuals seek out and win the confidence of youngsters. Then they proceed to act. Do not under any circumstances allow them to touch you. Such people should be immediately reported to the administrative organs so that they can be removed from society.\"\n\nImprisonment for male same-sex sexual intercourse and government censorship of homosexuality and LGBT rights did not begin to slowly relax until the early 1970s. Venedikt Yerofeyev was permitted to include a brief interior monologue about homosexuality in \"Moscow to the End of the Line\" (1973). Perhaps the first public endorsement of LGBT rights since Stalin was a brief statement, critical of Article 121 and calling for its repeal, made in the \"Textbook of Soviet Criminal Law\" (1973). These references were characterized as being brief statements in a novel or textbook and were made by heterosexuals. Vicktor Sosnora was allowed to write about witnessing an elderly gay actor being brutally murdered in a Leningrad bar in \"The Flying Dutchman\" (1979), but the book was only allowed to be published in East Germany. When the author was gay and, in particular, if they were seen as supporting gay rights, the censors tended to be much harsher.\n\nRussian gay author Yevgeny Kharitonov illegally circulated some gay fiction before he died of heart failure in 1981. Author Gennady Trifonov served four years of hard labor for circulating his gay poems and, upon his release, was allowed to write and publish only if he avoided depicting or making reference to homosexuality. In 1984, a group of Russian gay men met and attempted to organize an official gay rights organization, only to be quickly shut down by the KGB. It was not until later in the \"Glasnost\" period that public discussion was permitted about re-legalizing private, consensual adult homosexual relations.\n\nA poll conducted in 1989 reported that homosexuals were the most hated group in Russian society and that 30 percent of those polled felt that homosexuals should be liquidated. In a 1991 public opinion poll conducted in Chelyabinsk 30 percent of the respondents aged 16 to 30 years old felt that homosexuals should be \"isolated from society,\" 5 percent felt they should be \"liquidated,\" 60 percent had a \"negative\" attitude toward gay people and 5 percent labeled their sexual orientation \"unfortunate.\" In 1989–1990 a Moscow gay rights organization led by Yevgeniya Debryanskaya was permitted to exist, with Roman Kalinin given permission to publish a gay newspaper, \"Tema\". The precise number of persons prosecuted under Article 121 is unknown, with the first official information was released only in 1988, but it is believed to be about 1000 prosecuted a year. According to official data, the number of men convicted under Article 121 had been steadily decreasing during the Glasnost period. In 1987, 831 men were sentenced under Article 121; in 1989, 539; in 1990, 497; and in 1991, 462.\n\nDuring World War II, some Yugoslav Partisans issued several death sentences during the war against partisans whose homosexuality was revealed. After World War II, the repression of LGBT in Yugoslavia effectively began, LGBT people were labeled by communists as \"enemies of the system\" and were also prohibited from joining the Communist Party of Yugoslavia.\n\nWhen the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was formed, it adopted Yugoslav Criminal Code of 1929, a previous law of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia banned \"lewdness against the order of nature\" (anal intercourse) between human beings. The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia later restricted the offense in 1959 to only apply to male same-sex anal intercourse; but with the maximum sentence reduced from 2 to 1 year imprisonment. In 1973, the Croatian Medical Chamber removed homosexuality from its list of mental disorders.\n\nIn 1974, Yugoslavia adopted new federal constitution which resulted in the abolition of the federal penal code, allowing each socialist republic to created their own. In 1977, the Socialist Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, Socialist Republic of Croatia, Socialist Republic of Montenegro and Socialist Republic of Slovenia enacted their own individual penal codes, and decriminalized male same-sex anal intercourse. Male-same-sex anal intercourse remained illegal in the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Socialist Republic of Macedonia and the Socialist Republic of Serbia, excluding the Socialist Autonomous Province of Vojvodina (so including Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija.\n\nIn 1985, Toni Marošević became the first openly gay media person, and briefly hosted a radio show on Youth Radio () that dealt with marginal socio-political issues. He later revealed that he had been asked on several occasions by the League of Communists of Croatia to form a LGBT faction of the party. The first lesbian association (Lila initiative) in Croatia was formed in 1989, but ceased to exist a year later. In 1990, Vojvodina was reincorporated into the legal system of Serbia, and male same-sex anal intercourse once again become a criminal offense.\n\n"}
{"id": "47645268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47645268", "title": "LGBTory", "text": "LGBTory\n\nLGBTory is a Canadian LGBT conservative organization. The group was established in 2015, as an advocacy group for LGBT supporters of the Conservative Party of Canada and provincial conservative parties. While officially open to all LGBT supporters of conservative parties across Canada, the group was founded in Toronto, Ontario by people associated with the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario who wanted to be represented in the Toronto Pride Parade. The name was inspired by the similar British conservative group LGBTory, now called LGBT+ Conservatives, which gave permission to use the name.\n\nLGBTory lists its core political beliefs as supporting limited government and personal and economic freedoms, opposing despotic governments and terrorist groups that persecute minorities including LGBT people, and supporting entrepreneurs and small business owners.\n\nTo date, the organization's most widely publicized activity has been its participation in several of Canada's largest Pride parades in 2015, representing the first time that an organized LGBT conservative group has participated in any of the events.\n\nAt Toronto's Pride parade in June, in addition to LGBTory members the marching contingent included federal MPs Kellie Leitch and Bernard Trottier, Ontario Progressive Conservative Party leader Patrick Brown, MPPs Lisa MacLeod and Jack MacLaren and party president Richard Ciano. Ottawa talk radio host Nick Vandergragt subsequently criticized MacLeod on his CFRA talk show for her participation, although both MacLeod and MacLaren repudiated Vandergragt's comments.\n\nAt Ottawa's Capital Pride in August, the group was faced with an online petition, signed by approximately 200 members of the city's LGBT community, demanding that the pride committee bar the group from marching. The petition asserted that \"by not distancing themselves from politicians who are actively dismantling our rights,\" the group was participating in \"bad faith\"; it also claimed that by using the T in the LGBT initialism to stand for \"Tory\", the group was erasing transgender identities and issues. The group was not banned from the parade, and marched without further incident. MacLeod was again among the marchers, although no other elected MPs or MPPs joined her.\n\nLGBTory did not directly organize a contingent at Vancouver Pride, although the Conservative Party's federal electoral district association in Vancouver Centre applied to participate but then withdrew. The withdrawal was tied to conflicting claims about whether the group had sought an exemption from having to sign a pledge committing participating groups to respect and defend transgender equality rights.\n\nOn August 27, 2015, the cross-partisan advocacy group ProudPolitics published an open letter on its website endorsing the group's right to participate in LGBT pride events, stating that \"we look forward to working with candidates, groups, and parties of all stripes\" and that \"achieving ‘lived equality’ – our vision at ProudPolitics – means that LGBTIQ+ citizens should be accepted in all parties and in every walk of life.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "46435968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46435968", "title": "Land reform in Bolivia", "text": "Land reform in Bolivia\n\nBefore the Bolivian National Revolution of 1952, land in Bolivia was unequally distributed — 92% of the cultivable land was held by estates of 1,000 hectares or more.\n\nOn August 2, 1953, the MNR government led by president Víctor Paz Estenssoro decreed the Agrarian Reform Law (Law Decree 3464). The law abolished forced peasantry labor, and established a program of expropriation and distribution of the rural property of the traditional landlords to the Indian peasants. Only estates with low productivity were completely distributed. More productive small and medium-sized farms were allowed to keep part of their land and were encouraged to invest new capital to increase agricultural production. The Agrarian Reform Law also provided for compensation for landlords to be paid in the form of twenty-five-year government bonds. The amount of compensation was based on the value of the property declared for taxes.\n\nAt first, the government was unable to control the occupation of land by the peasants. As a result, it could not enforce the provisions of the land reform decree to keep medium-sized productive estates intact. But the MNR eventually gained the support of the campesinos when the Ministry of Peasant Affairs was created and when peasants were organized into syndicates. Peasants were not only granted land but their militias also were given large supplies of arms. The peasants remained a powerful political force in Bolivia during all subsequent governments.\n\nHowever, in 1970 only 45% of peasant families had received title to land, although more land reform projects continued in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nA 1996 Agrarian Reform Law (also ) increased protection for smallholdings and indigenous territories, but also protected absentee landholders who pay taxes from expropriation. Bolivian president Evo Morales restarted land reform when he took office in 2006.\n\nOn 29 November 2006, the Bolivian Senate passed a bill authorizing the government redistribution of land among the nation's mostly indigenous poor. The bill was signed into law hours later, though significant opposition is expected\n"}
{"id": "56023809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56023809", "title": "List of Wasserstein Fellows", "text": "List of Wasserstein Fellows\n\nThe Wasserstein Public Interest Fellows Program recognizes exemplary members of the bar who engage in public service. The program, founded in 1990 defines public service as \"law-related work for governmental agencies, legal services providers, prosecutors, public defenders, private public interest law firms, nonprofit organizations and international organizations that provide legal assistance, conduct research, or engage in other activities aimed at advancing the common good.\" Academics and judges are ineligible for nomination (although they may go on to those roles). Fellows are invited to Harvard Law School to interact with students.\n"}
{"id": "400440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=400440", "title": "List of political parties in North Korea", "text": "List of political parties in North Korea\n\nPolitical parties in North Korea are heavily tied to the function of the government. North Korea has several parties, but the Workers' Party of Korea (WPK) has a stranglehold on political power.\n\nAs of the latest election in 2014, three parties (WPK, Korean Social Democratic Party, and Chondoist Chongu Party) and one organization (Chongryon) are represented in the Supreme People's Assembly, the country's parliament.\n\nNorth Korea is a de facto one-party state. Although minor parties are allowed, they are legally required to accept the leadership of the ruling party. North Korean politics works therefore on the united front principle common in communist states, but uncommon in allowing competing parties. The North Korean front is called the Democratic Front for the Reunification of the Fatherland.\n\nThere is currently no known organized opposition within North Korea that is independently verifiable. However, there are various exiled dissident groups that oppose the regime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24517463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24517463", "title": "Military operations other than war (UK)", "text": "Military operations other than war (UK)\n\nBritish military operations other than war (MOOTW) focus on deterring war, resolving conflict, promoting peace, and supporting civil authorities in response to domestic crises. \n\nThe MOTW strategic paradigm evolved slowly.\n\nThe evolution of British tactics in the Malayan Emergency (1948-1960) illustrates lessons learned the hard way; and eventually, the British developed a strategy with elements similar to \"military operations other than warfare.\" principles. In a sense, events in Malaya anticipated the current doctrine. Ultimately, the way in which political and military leaders defined their roles and synchronized their policies and operations produced measurable results. The British initially failed to appreciate the complex nature of counterinsurgency and equally complex measures which are required to combat it.\n\nSubsequent operations built from a foundation consisting of what had been learned (and what had not been learned) in 1948-1950. \n\nLieutenant General Sir Harold Briggs is credited with articulating the twin goals which have evolved into a British doctrine over the course of time. The Briggs Plan (June 1950) proposed \"two key goals to accomplish in order to end the insurgency--first, to protect the population, and second to isolate them from the guerrillas.\"\n\nBritish peacekeeping troops in Bosnia in the late 1990s attended to similar objectives in order to assist the population in re-establishing \"normality.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12398788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12398788", "title": "Murray-Darling Basin Authority", "text": "Murray-Darling Basin Authority\n\nThe Murray-Darling Basin Authority (MDBA) is the principal government agency in charge of managing the Murray-Darling Basin in an integrated and sustainable manner. The MDBA is an independent statutory agency that manages, in conjunction with the Basin states, the Murray–Darling Basin's water resources in the national interest. The MDBA reports to the Australian Government Minister for Agriculture and Water Resources.\n\nThe MDBA is established under the federal \"Water Act (2007)\", which was introduced under the Howard Government as part of the National Water Plan for Water Security. The \"Water Act (2007)\" was a response to the drought and the potential effects of climate change in Australia. The law aimed to fulfill Australia's obligations under the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands.\nThe 2007 Act was substantially amended in 2008.\n\nThe Chief Executive of the MDBA is Phillip Glyde who replaced Dr Rhondda Dickson. The Chair of the MDBA is Neil Andrew who replaced Craig Knowles after his term as Chair expired in 2015. Andrew is a former Liberal member of the Australian House of Representatives from March 1983 to October 2004.\n\nWhilst the MDBA is a Commonwealth Government agency, an inter-governmental Murray‑Darling Basin Ministerial Council (Ministerial Council) acts in an advisory role in preparing and implementing the Basin Plan by the MDBA. This Council comprises the Commonwealth Minister for Agriculture and Water Resources (who also chairs the council) and one minister from each of the basin states (Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia) and the Australian Capital Territory. The Ministerial Council introduced the Murray-Darling Cap in response to the 1995 report titled \"An Audit of Water Use in the Murray-Darling Basin\".\n\nWith the creation of the MDBA in 2008, for the first time, a single inter-governmental body assumed responsibility for planning the integrated management of water resources of the Murray-Darling Basin. In addition to the Commission's former functions, the MDBA's role includes:\n\n\nThe Murray–Darling Basin Authority is an integral element of the Commonwealth Government's program \"Water for the Future\" which has four priorities; namely:\nThe MDBA also commissions research into aquatic science and is a source of information on Australian freshwater biology.\n\nSince 1914, there have been various intergovernmental agreements relating to Murray‑Darling water resources. Prior to the formation of the Murray-Darling Basin Authority, institutional arrangements for water resources management lay with the five State and Territory governments in the Basin, with little co-ordination. In response to this problem, the Murray-Darling Basin Commission was established in January 1988 under the Murray-Darling Basin Agreement, with a charter to efficiently manage and equitably distribute River Murray water resources. Secondly, it was to protect and improve the water quality of the River Murray and its tributaries; and lastly to advise the Murray-Darling Ministerial Council on water, land and environmental management in the Basin.\n\nThe \"Water Amendment Act 2008\" was introduced in December 2008 to amend the \"Water Act 2007\". This law transferred authority from the Murray-Darling Basin Commission to the Murray-Darling Basin Authority, creating an independent, expert-based body that would manage the Basin holistically for the first time.\n\nAs at November 2016, the MDBA is four years into the implementation phase of the Basin Plan. The MDBA has published major bodies of work including: \nThe MDBA also established a water trading scheme across Basin states to increase water use efficiency.\n\nThe Murray-Darling Basin Plan was signed off by Tony Burke, Minister for Sustainability, Environment, Water, Population and Communities on 22 November 2012, and passed its final hurdle in the Australian Parliament on the 29 November 2012. Following is the history leading up to this significant occasion in the history of Australian water reform.\n\nOn 8 October 2010, the MDBA released a major document entitled the \"Guide to the Proposed Murray-Darling Basin Plan\" outlining a plan to secure the long-term ecological health of the Murray-Darling Basin. The guide introduced cutting existing water allocations and increasing environmental flows. The proposed plan was the first part of a three-stage process to address the problems of the Murray-Darling Basin; namely, over-allocation, prolonged drought, natural climate variability and climate change, leading to deteroriation of rivers, wetlands, forests and floodplains in the basin.\n\nThe MDBA is responsible for preparing and overseeing the Basin Plan, a legally enforceable management plan. The main aim of the Plan (passed by the Australian Parliament in November 2012) is to return around 2,750 GL to the river system. The authority originally reported that the a volume of water as high as 7,600 gigalitres per year would bring long-term sustainability and would be the best scenario for the ecosystems of the basin but \"would not be socially or economically viable\".\n\nThe Basin Plan sets and enforces environmentally sustainable limits on the quantities of water that may be taken from Basin water resources. It has Basin-wide environmental, water quality and salinity objectives and aims to develop efficient water trading regimes across the Basin. The plan includes requirements for state water resource plans and aims to improve water security for all Basin users. The Basin Plan aims to achieve a balance between environmental, economic and social considerations .\n\nWith the release of the \"Guide to the Proposed Murray-Darling Basin Plan\" there were a significant number of protests and voiced concerns in rural towns that the MDBA visited to present the proposed plan at consultation meetings. In Renmark, more than 500 people attended the Authority's first public consultation meeting in the local hotel that accommodated only 250 people. The draft plan proposed water buybacks of up to 35% in the Riverland area, forcing job losses and reduced flows to angry irrigators. Over 5,000 people attended a meeting in Griffith where the local Mayor, Mike Neville, said the plan would \"obliterate\" Murrumbidgee valley communities. Other groups also echoed this feeling, such as the Victorian Farmers Federation and the Wine Group Growers' Australia. At the same time, there was also support for the draft plan by various groups, including the Australian Conservation Foundation, and Environment Victoria.\n\nIn legal advice, dated 25 October 2010, from the Australian Government Solicitor, the Government's reading is that the draft plan must give equal weight to the environmental, social and economic impacts of proposed cuts to irrigation. Environmentalists and South Australian irrigators say the Authority should stick to its original figure. In October 2010, a parliamentary inquiry into the economic impacts of the plan was announced. While, in November 2010, the Authority announced that it might be forced to push back the release of its final plan for the river system until early 2012.\n\nLess than one month later, Mike Taylor, then Chair of the Authority, announced his decision to resign effective from the end of January 2011. In announcing his resignation, he cited his concerns that the Water Act made it difficult to balance the environmental and socio-economic impacts of cuts to water allocations aimed at rescuing rivers in the basin. Of crucial concern was Taylor's desire to not oversee a process that returned less than 3,000 GL to the basin. Both the Prime Minister, Julia Gillard, and the Water Minister, Tony Burke, rejected Taylor's concerns that the Water Act and the objectives of the Authority were compromised.\n\nIn May 2011, The Wentworth Group of Concerned Scientists withdrew its support for the Murray Darling Basin Plan, who described the process as seriously flawed and a waste of taxpayers' money. The Wentworth Group said they could not support the plan which they believed would cost billions and claimed that it would not fix the problems in the river system. The Wentworth Group wanted a minimum 4000 gigalitres of water returned to the river system but the group believed that it would not happen under the draft plan.\n\nIn June 2011, a federal parliamentary committee (chaired by independent Tony Windsor) delivered its report to the Murray-Darling Basin Authority and its recommendations on water cutbacks in the basin. The committee was told river communities faced annihilation if 4,000 gigalitres was returned to the environment. The committee also reported that the health of the river system could be protected without the cuts. The Australian Conservation Foundation says it is disappointed by the report delivered by the inquiry into the Murray-Darling river system. The Australian Conservation Foundation believes that buybacks are the most efficient way to save the basin.\n\nIn November 2011, the draft plan was finally released. The plan proposes that 2,750 gigalitres per year be cut from water allocations over a period of seven years.\n\nAccording to a study by Wentworth Group, the Commonwealth Government originally planned to start buying the 2,750 gigalitres of water and to increase groundwater extractions by 2,600 gigalitres at the same time in March 2011. Many of the groundwater is linked to river systems, but the Plan does not count it in the models.:\n\nIn late May 2012, a revision of the plan was forwarded to state water ministers for review. It did not alter the recommendation to return 2,750 gigalitres of water to the environment by cutting water entitlements.\n\nFollowing much negotiation between the Commonwealth and State governments and numerous submissions from interested stakeholders and the community,the Basin Plan finally became law in November 2012 and is now being implemented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3846095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3846095", "title": "Najah Wakim", "text": "Najah Wakim\n\nNajah Wakim (born 1946) is the president and one of the founders of the Lebanese leftist group the People's Movement. He is a secular Lebanese lawyer who believes in secular Arabist ideology.\n\nHe managed to defeat Nasim Majdalani in 1972's Lebanese parliamentary elections for the Orthodox seat, and he was a supporter of Gamal Abdel Nasser. He was not involved in any military work during the Lebanese Civil War. However, several death threats were issued against him and several attempts were made on his life most notably on October 1, 1987. In 1982, he highly opposed the Israeli invasion of Beirut and voted against the Israeli-supported presidential candidate Bashir Gemayel. He rejected the 1989 Taif agreement claiming it is an American-Syrian agreement that only enhanced sectarianism in Lebanon.\nWakim won the parliamentary elections in 1992 and in 1996. He boycotted the elections in 2000, opposing Syrian interference in Lebanese affairs. He is known for his very strict opposition of the whole Lebanese regime and sectarian leaders.\n\nBut in 1998 while in parliament, Wakim voted for the election of Pro-Syrian President Émile Lahoud. He maintains strong links to Lebanese pro-Syrian figures such as Lebanese Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party MP Assem Qanso. \n\nIn 1999, he founded \"The People's Movement\", a leftist group that calls for changes in the Lebanese political system and for better relationships between Arab countries. In 2001, his office was burned by arsonists who were not identified.\n\nNajah Wakim was not involved in the pro-Syrian nor the anti-Syrian rallies in March 2005. However after the Syrian withdrawal, he attacked the March 14 Alliance claiming that the Syrian interference has been replaced with an American invasion of Lebanon. \nEven though the 2005 elections held the election law of 2000, and with an Arab political position, he fought the 2005 elections alone against the Hariri-LF-Hezbollah allied list and lost.\nHe also ran for the 2009 elections but lost against the sectarian allies in Beirut.\nIn the current Lebanese political scandal, Najah Wakim is a strict supporter to Hezbollah's arms and a great opposer to the government, who is currently considered as pro-American by many Lebanese parties. \n\nNajah Wakim is the author of three books: Al 'Alam Al Thalith Wal Thawra (The Third World and Revolution), Al Ayadi Al Sud (The Black Hands) which is a foray into the political corruption in Lebanon in the days of the prime minister Rafiq Al Hariri. The other book contains his speeches and essays and is called Al Wahm Wal Amal (Illusion and Hope). All three books are in Arabic.\n\n"}
{"id": "18889457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18889457", "title": "Nakaluluwag", "text": "Nakaluluwag\n\nNakaluluwag or \"nakakaluwag\" (variants: \"nakakaluwang\" or \"nakaluluwang\") is a Filipino ethic wherein the well-off are socially and morally obligated to help those in need. In Hiligaynon, the term is \"nakaalwan\". It comes from the blending of the Chinese concept of \"wo\" (peace and harmony), the Malay culture of familiarity even to distant relatives and other clan members, and the Christian teaching of helping the poor. \n\nThere is a traditional Chinese belief that states that in order to have peace and harmony in a kingdom or empire, there should be no extremes in wealth and poverty. Thus, those who are wealthy should give some of their wealth to those living in destitution. Thus, the poor will not take arms and revolt against those living in opulence. \n\nWith the introduction of Christian teachings by the Spanish missionaries starting in the 16th Century, the indigenous Filipino ethic was somehow refined to benevolence to all those in need, in general. The term and its variants have been incorporated in a number of Tagalog idioms and proverbs. Through the Spanish and the American colonial periods, and even the Japanese Occupation, as linguistic categorization emerges in the Filipino language as a representation of Filipino world view and causality, the concept of \"nakaluluwag\" further modified social perception and thereby leads to a continual interaction between the Filipino language and philosophy.\n\nIn some Filipino artworks, those in need are pictured as tightly clinging to what they have, and come into grips. While those who are well-off are pictured as willing to let go of some of their possessions for those in need. \"Maluwag\" or \"maluwang\" literally means lightly held, loose, or spacious. It may also imply sufficient freedom to move around or having a comfortable space to work on. The term implies willingness in giving and helping: \"maluwag sa kalooban\" and those familiar with accounting concepts often substitute the term \"liquid\" as in \"\"Liquid\" ka ba ngayon? Puede bang makahiram?\" (\"Are you \"liquid\" at this time? Can you lend me some amount?\").\n\nEven some Filipino grade school children form small informal cooperatives and do \"paluwagan\" which is essentially a group money lending scheme. However, the term \"magpaluwal\" has become synonymous with simple money lending, while the ethic \"nakaluluwag\" involves giving. \n\nThis Filipino ethic of giving includes some sacrifice on the part of the giver: the person giving (nakaluluwag) should at the very least, feel some discomfort. One should \"get hurt\" by his or her act of giving. Otherwise the essence of sacrifice will be absent. This is similar but not identical to the Christian lesson of the widow's mite present in the Synoptic Gospels (, ,).\n\nThe concept also includes relativism: some may be poor but they can consider themselves \"nakaluluwag\" to those who are much poorer, as rendered in a Tagalog commentary on . Even Filipino converts to the Church of the Latter-Day Saints (Mormon) translates the phrase \"the rich\" as \"nakaluluwag\". Those taking the Conflict theory approach to the study of society may suspect the true intentions of the \"nakaluluwag\". However, some consider more than the financial aspect of the concept. The ethic involves fulfillment in doing a social obligation. This Filipino concept appears to be present even for the Filipino emigrants.\n\nAccording to Antonio Levy S. Ingles Jr. of De La Salle-College of Saint Benilde, this Filipino ethic is priceless and may bring about peace and harmony during times of crisis. He claims that \"it is a Filipino affirmation of a sustainable world view and global care-giving ethic\".\n"}
{"id": "48857074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48857074", "title": "Niskanen Center", "text": "Niskanen Center\n\nThe Niskanen Center is a Washington, D.C.-based think tank that advocates for environmentalism, immigration reform, civil liberties, and a national defense policy based on market principles. The center is named after the late William A. Niskanen, a former economic adviser to president Ronald Reagan. The Niskanen Center states that its \"main audience is Washington insiders.\"\n\nThe Niskanen Center was founded in early 2015 by Jerry Taylor. At its launch, the center was composed primarily of former staffers of the Cato Institute who departed in the wake of a 2012 leadership struggle pitting Ed Crane against the Koch Brothers for control of the libertarian think tank. Niskanen Center founder Taylor and vice president Joe Coon publicly aligned themselves with Crane during the dispute. Both departed shortly after Crane was replaced by John Allison as president of Cato as part of the settlement with the Kochs.\n\nFunding for the center includes donors who seek to counter libertarian conservative hostility to anti-global warming measures. North Carolina businessman Jay Faison, a Republican donor, made an early contribution to the Niskanen Center to spur public climate education but has ceased all ties to the organization in recent years. Some supporters of the Niskanen Center are more traditionally aligned with left-libertarian causes. They include the Open Philanthropy Project, which supports the Center's work to expand legal immigration, the Lawrence Linden Trust for Conservation, which provided the Niskanen Center with a grant \"to develop and analyze a potential economy-wide carbon tax\", and a $400,000 operations grant from the Hewlett Foundation.\n\nThe Niskanen Center focuses on producing advice on libertarian-friendly legislation and regulation by working within the existing political framework. The target audience is influential Washington insiders, rather than the general public, including policy-oriented legislators, presidential appointees, career civil servants in planning, evaluation and budget offices, congressional committee staff, engaged academics, and interest group analysts. The Center's activities is guided by its reading of the research on the determinants of public opinion. The Center seeks embrace relative policy improvements, which includes putting forth second best or even third best or fourth best solutions, rather than a single, optimal one, and seeks to include the preferences of potential allies who do not share its beliefs.\n\nThe Niskanen Center focuses on four distinct areas of public policy: climate change, foreign policy and defense, immigration reform, and technology and civil liberties.\n\nThe Niskanen Center advocates for the imposition of a global carbon tax for the purpose of offsetting global warming and the effects of climate change. In outlining the case for a carbon tax, Taylor proposed a revenue-neutral measure that will be enforced through a global tariff scheme to enforce compliance among participating nations. The Niskanen Center also endorses the understanding of climate change as anthropogenic and believes that government action is a necessary component of mitigating the risks associated with long term sea level rise and extreme weather events associated with climate change.\n\nThe Niskanen Center's support for carbon taxation represents a nearly complete reversal of Taylor's previous advocacy at the Cato Institute, where he was a vocal climate change skeptic. Taylor was the featured guest on an hour-long episode of the John Stossel show in 2009 in which he advanced arguments against anthropogenic global warming and opposed government action to address climate change. Taylor explained his shift in a 2015 interview with Vox.com, indicating that he had \"fundamentally switched\" his previous beliefs on the issue after seeing new scientific evidence and the more general strengthening over time of the case for the dangers of climate change, as well as arguments from fellow libertarians about responses to the challenge of climate change that were consistent with and even required by a libertarian political stance.\n\nTaylor's first doubts on the issue came when he discovered that scientists on whom he had relied to come to the opinion that climate change would not be as great a problem as the scientific consensus on climate change suggests were privately aware with problems in their public stance on the issue. In the early 2000s, while debating climate activist Joe Romm, he based part of his argument on the fact that the world had not warmed as much as NASA climate scientist James Hansen had predicted it would in his 1988 congressional testimony. Romm pointed out that the reason for Hansen's high estimate for warming over the intervening time period was that global greenhouse gas emissions had grown much more slowly than Hansen had predicted, and that observed warming had actually been entirely consistent with Hansen's projections for a scenario in which global emissions were at the levels that had actually occurred. When Taylor followed up on this with scientists allied with Cato on whom he had relied in the past, they \"seemed to be fully aware of the problems with their narratives but they didn't care. Look, I'm not a scientist but I had trusted these scientists to well inform me on the matters, and I can no longer really trust them.\"\n\nRobert Bradley of the Institute for Energy Research, a former colleague of Taylor's during his time as a climate skeptic, has countered that Taylor's shift coincides with his appeal for donors in the climate activist community to \"financially father\" his new institute following the break from Cato.\n\nIn November 2015 the Niskanen Center announced the founding of a new Center for Climate Science under the direction of Dr. Joseph Majkut, a climatologist who previously served on the staff of Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). The Center for Climate Science publishes analysis of climatology research in support of anthropogenic theories of global warming. Majkut has sought to position the Niskanen Center as an opponent of the Cato Institute's Dr. Patrick J. Michaels, a prominent skeptic within the scientific community.\n\nThe Niskanen Center argues for expanding immigration to the United States. In particular, they have argued for protecting the Diversity Immigrant Visa program in the United States, increasing low-skilled immigration, and getting the United States to increase its refugee intake.\n\nGood Ventures, a private foundation run by Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz and his wife Cari Tuna, made a $360,000 grant to the Niskanen Center in October 2015 to support its work on immigration policy, specifically the hiring of an Immigration Policy Counsel. The grant was made as part of the Open Philanthropy Project, a spinoff of a collaboration between Good Ventures and charity evaluator GiveWell.\n\nThe Niskanen Center advocates a civil libertarian position on issues of privacy, cybersecurity, surveillance, and technology policy. Some of their issue areas include robotics and automation (in particular commercial drones and autonomous vehicles), encryption and cybersecurity, commercial outer space policy, and issues relating to the Internet of Things. The department advocates for light-touch policy approaches to emerging technologies.\n\nIn June 2017 the Niskanen Center published two posts on how automation interplays with American politics. While the center is optimistic about the long-run benefits of automation, the center did express concern about the potential short-run political repercussions. \n\nThe debate is often cast between the \"job elimination deniers\" and the apocalyptic doomsayers, but there is a great deal of substance and nuance that is lost in such a (mis)characterization. The real questions are what the intervening period of dislocation looks like, who gets hurt the hardest, and what the short-term political ramifications of this dynamic transformation means for the people experiencing those changes first hand.\n\nThe second post examined potential policy reforms that could be used to ameliorate those risks. These included reforming housing policies, education policies, and social safety net provisions.\n\nIn particular, the technology and civil liberties department focuses on reforming government surveillance. As discussed in the department's blog:\n\nAs technology has advanced, the idea of total surveillance has leaped from the pages of fiction into reality. Americans are now confronted with a near-Orwellian surveillance system that threatens to abscond with the basic civil liberties guaranteed to every American under the auspices of the U.S. Constitution. Where once courts produced warrants in the public forum, the process has now become opaque as secret courts ordering secret warrants under secret interpretations of law have become a way of life. Under such a system, there can never be a presumption of innocence, or the guarantee of a free and open exchange of ideas.\n\nRyan Hagemann leads the department and had previously authored works on commercial drones and autonomous vehicles with the Mercatus Center's Technology Policy Program. He maintains an adjunct fellowship with TechFreedom, a Washington, D.C.-based think tank.\n\nThe Center's Foreign Policy and Defense department is led by Matt Fay and focuses on reforming the spending and appropriations practices of the Department of Defense and U.S. armed forces. Fay, in his blog \"Dollars and Defense\", notes that\n\nThe Pentagon often makes ill-advised choices about future needs, and Congress pushes programs that create jobs in individual districts but do little to improve America's security. Moreover, the Department of Defense is a bureaucracy. It is subject to any number of pathologies from which all bureaucracies suffer. In fact, given its size, it is even more likely to fall prey to dysfunction. Scarcity can provide discipline. It can force useful tradeoffs.\n\nThe Center's Poverty & Welfare department is currently headed by Samuel Hammond, who earned his bachelor's degree in economics with honors from Saint Mary's University and his master's in economics from Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada. Hammond's work focuses on improving the efficiency of the United States' welfare system, and has examined the role of welfare state in the United States, the merits of a child allowance, universal basic income, and the dependency (or lack thereof) of immigrants on government programs. Through its poverty and welfare department, the Niskanen Center is also a part of the Economic Security Project, which aims to \"comprehensively explore the merits of a universal basic income.\"\n\nThe Niskanen Center was founded and is led by Jerry Taylor, who formerly worked at the Cato Institute, where he served as director of natural resource studies, assistant editor of \"Regulation\" magazine, senior fellow, and then vice president. Before that, Taylor was the staff director for the energy and environment task force at the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC). Will Wilkinson, who also previously worked at the Cato Institute, is the Niskanen Center's Vice President of Policy.\n\nAdvisory Board members include Yoram Bauman, Tom G. Palmer, John H. Cochrane, Tyler Cowen, Grover Norquist, Reihan Salam, Virginia Postrel, Matt Zwolinski, and Jacob T. Levy.\n\nThe Niskanen Center also has several prominent senior fellows, including Steven Teles, Jacob T. Levy, Ed Dolan, and Linda Chavez.\n\nThe Niskanen Center has sought to differentiate itself from other think tanks on the political right by espousing a position of strategic compromise, including on issue areas that break from doctrinaire noninterventionist and free-market positions. In addition to taking an aggressive stance in favor of climate change action and carbon taxes, the center generally supports the maintenance of a more robust welfare state safety net in exchange for other market reforms. Vice President for Policy Will Wilkinson advocates a social democracy-style system that incorporates the position of liberal political philosopher John Rawls. This ideal mirrors European states such as Denmark that pair free trade liberalism and labor market reform with heavy unemployment benefits and a public healthcare system.\n\nIn early 2016, the Niskanen Center published a post on the \"libertarian case\" for socialist Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders. As Wilkinson wrote, \"The libertarian case for Bernie Sanders is simply that Bernie Sanders wants to make America more like Denmark, Canada, or Sweden ... and the citizens of those countries enjoy more liberty than Americans do. No other candidate specifically aims to make the United States more closely resemble a freer country.\" Taylor seconded this position, asserting that there is a \"case to be made that Sanders has been the most libertarian candidate in the presidential race\" and calling for a \"more thoughtful re-draft of the Sanders agenda.\" Taylor further linked this case for Sanders to a broader reformulation of political libertarianism, stating:\n\nWere libertarians to ungrudgingly accept the case for a more adequate social safety net (a case, after all, accepted to some extent by libertarian heroes F. A. Hayek, Milton Friedman) and give up on their blanket, dogmatic opposition to all regulation and market intervention (a perfect example is their remarkable hostility to mainstream climate science), they'd find a ticket to intellectual respectability. They would also find a ticket to political relevancy — something that is being well demonstrated by the Bernie Sanders campaign.\n\nTheir arguments for Sanders provoked a heated discussion by other libertarian commentators about whether there was a case to be made for Bernie Sanders. Megan McArdle countered that the thought of backing Sanders was \"fun, but not convincing.\" \"We heard a similar argument about Obamacare spurring entrepreneurship, which sounded splendid except for the total lack of evidence that national health care schemes had caused entrepreneurship to surge anywhere.\" University of Chicago economist John Cochrane echoed this assessment by noting the political dangers of \"libertarians for Sanders\" position.\n\nHowever, the argument put forward by Wilkinson and Taylor may have been more of a thought exercise in relative tradeoffs between aspects of economic freedoms. As written by Wilkinson in the post:\n\nThe biggest problem with my particularist, data-first libertarian argument for Bernie Sanders is that Bernie Sanders doesn't seem to actually understand that Denmark-style social democracy is funded by a free-market capitalist system that is in many ways less regulated than American capitalism. \n\nThis critique had been outlined in an earlier piece by Wilkinson, in which he wrote: \"The lesson Bernie Sanders needs to learn is that you cannot finance a Danish-style welfare state without free markets and large tax increases on the middle class.\" Rhetorical exercise or not, the idea of a \"libertarian case for Bernie Sanders\" helped contribute to a debate among libertarians about ideological priors during the 2016 election cycle. The Niskanen Center has challenged some of the engrained policy ideas of the right-leaning American libertarian orbit, including on the role of the welfare state and government in market economics.\n\nAfter the 2016 U.S. elections, the Niskanen Center also began to focus on the importance of institutions in protecting economic and civil liberties. This has included examinations of legitimacy, authority, sovereignty, political discourse, the role of protests, the relationship between socialism and fascism, political resentment, and nepotism among other issues.\n\nThe Niskanen Center's rejection of the traditional libertarian position on free markets in favor of regulated mixed markets, and its embrace of an incremental approach to achieve political victories, has come under broader criticism, particularly on the global warming issue. Robert Bradley of the Institute for Energy Research and former colleague of Taylor called upon the Niskanen Center to abandon its current name and claim to the \"libertarian\" label, noting that the late William A. Niskanen was personally skeptical of many of the climate change policies that they now advocate.\n\n"}
{"id": "30439761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30439761", "title": "Open data in the United Kingdom", "text": "Open data in the United Kingdom\n\nThere have been campaigns in the United Kingdom for its government to open up the large amounts of data it has for greater public usage without prohibitively large fees. Currently some UK public sector data are released under a Creative Commons compatible licence.\n\nCrown Copyright has been a long-standing copyright protection applied to official works, and at times artistic works, produced under royal or official supervision. \"The Guardian\" newspaper's Technology section began a \"Free Our Data\" campaign, calling for data gathered by authorities at public expense to be made freely available for reuse by individuals.\nIn 2010 with the creation of the Open Government Licence and the Data.gov.uk site it appeared that the campaign had been mostly successful.\nOn 12 January 2011 the Coalition Government revealed that it was planning to establish a Public Data Corporation (PDC). The goal being to make the UK Government data provided in a much more consistent fashion as well as freeing more data for public and commercial use. The idea of the PDC was later dropped in favour of grouping a number of government data providing organisations to form the Public Data Group.\n\nIn 2010 the UK Government created the Open Government Licence, and public bodies can now opt to publish their Crown Copyright material under this licence. Material marked in this way is available under a free, perpetual licence without restrictions beyond attribution. This new licence was based on, and designed to work with the Creative Commons licences.\nVersion 2.0 of the licence was released in June 2013 and it was accompanied by a new logo which \"at a glance, shows that information can be used and re-used under open licensing\".\n\nCrown Copyright is the default copyright applied to all government department published documents.\n\nThe Met Office is the national weather service. Its main role is to produce forecast models by gathering all the information from weather satellites in space and observations on earth. The principal weather products for UK customers are 36-hour forecasts from the newly-operational 1.5 km resolution UKV model covering the UK and surroundings (replacing the 4 km model), 48-hour forecasts from the 12 km resolution NAE model covering Europe and the North Atlantic, and 144-hour forecasts from the 25 km resolution global model (replacing the 40 km global model). A wide range of other products for other regions of the globe are sold to customers abroad, provided for MOD operations abroad or provided free to developing countries in Africa. This main bulk of data are then passed on to companies who acquire it. Data are stored in the Met Office's own PP-format.\nThe Met Office held the base data involved in the Climatic Research Unit hacking incident and released information to the public alongside the Climatic Research Unit when pressed.\n\nOrdnance Survey has been subject to criticisms. Most criticism centres on the point that Ordnance Survey possesses a virtual government monopoly on geographic data in the UK, while, although a government agency, since 1999 it has been required to act as a Trading Fund or commercial entity. This means that it is supposed to be totally self-funding from the commercial sale of its data and derived products - whilst at the same time it is supposed to be the public supplier of geographical information. In 1985 the \"Committee of Enquiry into the Handling of Geographic Information\" was set up in order to “advise the Secretary of State for the Environment within two years on the future handling of geographic information in the UK, taking account of modern developments in information technology and market needs”. The Committee's final report was published under the name of its chairman, Roger Chorley, in 1987. The report stressed the importance of widely available geographic information to the UK and recommended a loosening of government policies on distribution and cost recovery.\n\nOrdnance Survey historical works are generally available, as the agency is covered by Crown Copyright: works more than fifty years old, including historic surveys of Britain and Ireland and much of the New Popular Edition, are in the public domain. However, finding suitable originals remains an issue as Ordnance Survey does not provide historical mapping on 'free' terms, instead marketing commercially 'enhanced' reproductions in partnership with Landmark Information Group. This can be contrasted with, for example, the approach in the Republic of Ireland in more recent times, where Ordnance Survey Ireland claims regular copyright over its mapping (and over digital copies of the public domain historical mapping).\n\nTransport Direct is a division of the UK Department for Transport to develop better information technology systems to support public transport. Traveline has created a comprehensive database of all public transport movements in the United Kingdom and it is used to power the Transport Direct Portal. Since the launch of the Portal in December 2004 there have been growing calls for the public transport schedule data, which is generally owned by the transport operator, to be made available as Open data.\n\nThe development of Traveline and Transport Direct has created a number of comprehensive national datasets to support the Transport Direct Portal. The assessment of accessibility to services by public transport was made a requirement for the Local Transport Plans in 2004. Measuring the level of accessibility required the use of the data collected by Traveline.\n\nThis data are being used by an increasing number of 3rd parties, including Google Transit (South East Traveline Region) and East Anglia / East Midlands Traveline Regions. mySociety's Mapumental accessibility product. During 2010 increasing amounts of data has become available as Open Data including NaPTAN and NPTDR.\n\nEnvironment Agency provides Open data are through its Spatial Data Catalogue. Lidar and other survey datasets are also available through its Survey Open Data web portal.\n\nThe UK Hydrographic Office is another data holder in the UK who has been listed by Free Our Data as a government office which is charging for the use of its data that Free Our Data believes should be opened for public use. The UK Hydrographic Office has data on tidal patterns and the position of astronomical bodies used in navigation, as well as being the primary holder of data for nautical charts, not just in the UK but also in many foreign locations, covering features such as bathymetry (depth), wrecks, underwater cables and pipelines, navigation buoys and lighthouses, and coastal features of interest to the mariner. Some of the hydrographic survey data is now being made available through the MEDIN portal as a result of the EU's INSPIRE initiative.\n\nIn March 2006 \"The Guardian\" newspaper's Technology section began a \"Free Our Data\" campaign, calling for the raw data gathered by Ordnance Survey (not to mention data gathered on its behalf by local authorities at public expense) to be made freely available for reuse by individuals and companies, as happens, for example, with such data in the USA. However, Ordnance Survey claimed that the quality of the freely available government mapping in the USA is low or variable because of funding issues.\n\nOn the 7 April 2006 the Office of Public Sector Information (OPSI) received a complaint from the data management company Intelligent Addressing. Many, although not all, complaints were upheld by the OPSI, one of the conclusions being that Ordnance Survey \"is offering licence terms which unnecessarily restrict competition\". Negotiations between Ordnance Survey and interested parties are ongoing with regard to the issues raised by the OPSI report, Ordnance Survey being under no obligation to comply with the report's recommendations.\n\nIn June 2006 the Free our data campaign asked \"In an age when it is not seen as appropriate for the public sector to run power stations or railways, why is it running nationalised industries in what should be the most dynamic sector of all, the web-based knowledge economy?\" And said that \"The question lies at the heart of our campaign, which argues that government’s role should be to collect and administer high-quality raw data, but make it freely available to everyone to create innovative services\". Transport Direct's chief executive, Nick Ilsley, said that research by the department prior to Transport Direct’s launch had showed the private sector was not interested in providing a one-stop all-purpose site.\n\nIn April 2007, Cabinet Office Minister Hilary Armstrong commissioned Ed Mayo and MySociety director Tom Steinberg to draft a \"Power of Information Review\" on how the government could serve the public's information needs better. The resulting report led Cabinet Minister Tom Watson, MP to create a 'Power of Information Task Force.\n\nSince August 2007, Ordnance Survey has contracted the political lobbying company Mandate Communications to help campaign against the free data movement and discover which politicians and advisers support Open Data or have questioned Ordnance Survey policies.\n\nIn 2008 MySociety requested to OPSI that the dataset should be made available for re-use as Open Data rather than at a charge of £7,500.\n\nIn April 2008 Tom Watson MP, Parliamentary Secretary at the Cabinet Office said that pledged to turn upside down the British public's \"recipient relationship\" with official information.\n\nThe 'Power of Information Taskforce Report' was published by the Cabinet Office in February 2009. It reported that although the National Public Transport Data Repository, described itself as ‘Crown Copyright’ investigations showed this database is not actually government data and that the NPTDR charges significant fees for use. The report suggested that there should be a presumption in favour of information which has been created by public sector bodies being available for re-use. They also suggested that there should be a clear and consistent copyright and licensing rules applied making it easy to work with data from multiple sources in the public sector. They recommended a 'Crown Commons' style approach with \"highly permissive licensing scheme that is transparent, easy to understand and easy to use, modelled on the 'Click Use' licence\".\n\nAlso in February 2009 Tom Watson MP from the Cabinet Office advised that the UK government would put Open-source software on equal footing for procurement; stating that \"Procurement decisions will be made on the basis on the best value for money solution to the business requirement, taking account of total lifetime cost of ownership of the solution, including exit and transition costs, after ensuring that solutions fulfil minimum and essential capability, security, scalability, transferability, support and manageability requirements.\" and \"Where there is no significant overall cost difference between open and non-open source products, open source will be selected on the basis of its additional inherent flexibility\".\n\nIn August 2009 Tom Watson MP mused on his website under the title \"Wacky terms and conditions\" about why the DirectGov version of the transport direct portal included this condition: “you may retrieve and display Content from the Website on an electronic visual display device, print individual pages on paper (but not photocopy them)”.\n\nIn September 2009 Sir Tim Berners Lee and Professor Nigel Shadbolt who had been appointed by Gordon Brown to advise the Government on how to make data more accessible to the public were invited to Number 10 Downing Street to present their early findings to the cabinet.\n\nIn October 2009 Tom Watson MP questioned why railway timetables were the train operators' private intellectual property. He asked Junior transport minister Chris Mole: \"Does not my hon. Friend think that the timetable data belong to the people, and that we should make them available for free?\". He also proposed an Early Day Motion that read \"That this House calls on the Government to ensure that transport timetables for rail and bus operators are made freely available for re-use, using an open standards format, thus enabling voluntary and commercial organisations to publish the data on their own digital platforms\". It was signed by 32 MPs.\n\nIn November 2009 the then Prime Minister, Gordon Brown announced that \"mid-scale\" data from Ordnance Survey would be made available for free reuse, including commercial applications, from April 2010. A consultation was held inviting responses between 23 December and 17 March by the Department of Communities and Local Government.\n\nIn December 2009 Local Transport Today reported that 'Data release could spark transport IT innovations\". The magazine reported that \"Among the data to be made accessible through the site are trunk road traffic volumes, the National Public Transport Access Node (NaPTAN) database and the National Public Transport Data Repository (NPTDR)\". A DfT spokeswoman was reported to say: “We will seek to embrace new technology to enable partners to provide exciting, user-focused services such as recently seen with satellite navigation and iPhone applications,”\n\nIn January 2010 a new government web-service, data.gov.uk was unveiled which would \"offer reams of public sector data, ranging from traffic statistics to crime figures, for private or commercial use\". The aim of the project was to \"kickstart a new wave of services that find novel ways to make use of the information\". The US had recently launched data.gov and London Mayor Boris Johnson had created the London Data Store the same month.\n\nIn March 2010 the Prime Minister Gordon Brown announced that the NaPTAN dataset was to be immediately made available from the data.gov.uk site as Open Data, as well as confirming an impending release of Ordnance Survey data. In his speech he observed that at present public transport timetables and real-time running information was owned by the operating companies but that the government would work to free it up. He also said that \"from today we will make it a condition of future franchises that this data will be made freely available\".\n\nAlso in March 2010 a Freedom of Information request was made to the Department for Transport inquiring about arrangements that had been made for the release of cycling data that was being collected for the portal at public expense. It requested information about any claims the Ordnance Survey would have over the data and if so the terms, and prices charged for making the data available to Ordnance Survey customers. Also the cost to a Local Authority for adding their area to the planner and for notes of any meetings of project boards and working parties. A response was published on 1 April 2010.\n\nOn 1 April 2010 Ordnance Survey released the brand \"OS OpenData\", under an attribution-only licence compatible with CC-by. Various groups and individuals had campaigned for this release of data, but some were disappointed when some of the profitable datasets were not included - withheld for the counter-argument that if licensees do not pay for OS data collection then the government would have to be willing to foot a £30m p.a. bill, to obtain the future economic benefit of sharing the highly detailed mapping produced by the UK's national agency.\nThe files have been cached on the MySociety website for convenient download. They can also be found on the OS website alongside their commercial data.\n\nJune 2010 saw Transport for London release a substantial amount of its data for free reuse, even in commercial settings. This did not include the roundel or Underground schedules, though the Underground data was released in the following months. Following the release of this data numerous \"apps\" for phones and online facilities appeared that made use of it.\n\n"}
{"id": "24727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24727", "title": "Pan-Germanism", "text": "Pan-Germanism\n\nPan-Germanism ( or '), also occasionally known as Pan-Germanicism\"', is a pan-nationalist political idea. Pan-Germanists originally sought to unify all the German and possibly also Germanic-speaking peoples in a single nation-state known as \"Großdeutschland\".\n\nPan-Germanism was highly influential in German politics in the 19th century during the unification of Germany when the German Empire was proclaimed as a nation-state in 1871 but without Austria (Kleindeutsche Lösung/Lesser Germany), and the first half of the 20th century in the Austro-Hungarian Empire and the German Empire. From the late 19th century, many Pan-Germanist thinkers, since 1891 organized in the Pan-German League, had adopted openly ethnocentric and racist ideologies, and ultimately gave rise to the foreign policy \"Heim ins Reich\" pursued by Nazi Germany under Austrian-born Adolf Hitler from 1938, one of the primary factors leading to the outbreak of World War II.\nAs a result of the disaster of World War II, Pan-Germanism was mostly seen as a taboo ideology in the postwar period in both West and East Germany. Today, Pan-Germanism is mainly limited to some nationalist groups in Germany and Austria.\n\nThe word \"pan\" is a Greek word element meaning \"all, every, whole, all-inclusive\". The word \"German\" in this context derives from Latin \"Germani\" originally used by Julius Caesar referring to tribes or a single tribe in northeastern Gaul. In the Late Middle Ages, it acquired a loose meaning referring to the speakers of Germanic languages (alongside 'Almain' and 'Teuton') most of whom spoke dialects ancestral to modern German. In English, \"Pan-German\" was first attested in 1892. In German, there exists a synonym \"Alldeutsche Bewegung\" which is a calque using German instead of Latin and Greek roots.\n\nPan-Germanism's origins began with the birth of Romantic nationalism during the Napoleonic Wars, with Friedrich Ludwig Jahn and Ernst Moritz Arndt being early proponents. Germans, for the most part, had been a loose and disunited people since the Reformation, when the Holy Roman Empire was shattered into a patchwork of states following the end of the Thirty Years' War with the Peace of Westphalia.\n\nAdvocates of the \"Großdeutschland\" (Greater Germany) solution sought to unite all the German-speaking people in Europe, under the leadership of the German Austrians from the Austrian Empire. Pan-Germanism was widespread among the revolutionaries of 1848, notably among Richard Wagner and the Brothers Grimm. Writers such as Friedrich List and Paul Anton Lagarde argued for German hegemony in Central and Eastern Europe, where German domination in some areas had begun as early as the 9th century AD with the Ostsiedlung, Germanic expansion into Slavic and Baltic lands. For the Pan-Germanists, this movement was seen as a Drang nach Osten, in which Germans would be naturally inclined to seek Lebensraum by moving eastwards to reunite with the German minorities there.\n\nThe \"Deutschlandlied\" (\"Song of Germany\"), written in 1841 by Hoffmann von Fallersleben, in its first stanza defines \"Deutschland\" as reaching \"From the Meuse to the Memel / From the Adige to the Belt\", i.e. as including East Prussia and South Tyrol.\n\nReflecting upon the First Schleswig War in 1848, Karl Marx noted that \"by quarrelling amongst themselves, instead of confederating, Germans and Scandinavians, both of them belonging to the same great race, only prepare the way for their hereditary enemy, the Slav.\"\n\n \nBy the 1860s the Kingdom of Prussia and the Austrian Empire had become the two most powerful states dominated by German-speaking élites. Both sought to expand their influence and territory. The Austrian Empire—like the Holy Roman Empire—was a multi-ethnic state, but the German-speaking people there did not have an absolute numerical majority; its re-shaping into the Austro-Hungarian Empire was one result of the growing nationalism of other ethnicities—especially the Hungarians. Under Prussian leadership, Otto von Bismarck would ride on the coat-tails of nationalism to unite all of the northern German lands. After Bismarck excluded Austria and the German Austrians from Germany in the German war of 1866 and (following a few other events over the next few years), the unification of Germany, established the Prussian-dominated German Empire (\"Second Reich\") in 1871 with the proclamation of Wilhelm I as head of a union of German-speaking states, while disregarding millions of its non-German subjects who desired self-determination from German rule. After World War I the Pan-Germanist philosophy changed drastically during the ascendancy of Adolf Hitler. Pan-Germanists originally sought to unify all the German-speaking populations of Europe in a single nation-state known as \"Großdeutschland\" (Greater Germany), where \"German-speaking\" was sometimes taken as synonymous with Germanic-speaking, to the inclusion of the Frisian- and Dutch-speaking populations of the Low Countries, and Scandinavia.\n\nAlthough Bismarck had excluded Austria and the German Austrians from his creation of the Kleindeutschland state in 1871, integrating the German Austrians nevertheless remained a strong desire for many people of both Austria and Germany. The most radical Austrian pan-German Georg Schönerer (1842–1921) and (1862–1941) articulated Pan-Germanist sentiments in the Austro-Hungarian Empire. There was also a rejection of Roman Catholicism with the Away from Rome! movement (ca 1900 onwards) calling for German-speakers to identify with Lutheran or Old Catholic churches. The Pan-German Movement gained an institutional format in 1891, when , a professor at the University of Leipzig and a member of the Reichstag, organized the Pan-German League, an ultra-nationalist political-interest organization which promoted imperialism, anti-semitism, and support for ethnic German minorities in other countries.\nThe organization achieved great support among the educated middle and upper class; it promoted German nationalist consciousness, especially among ethnic Germans outside Germany. In his three-volume work, \"Deutsche Politik\" (1905–07), Hasse called for German imperialist expansion in Europe. The Munich professor Karl Haushofer, , and Hans Grimm (author of the novel \"Volk ohne Raum\") preached similar expansionist policies.\n\nAfter the Revolutions of 1848/49, in which the liberal nationalistic revolutionaries advocated the Greater German solution, the Austrian defeat in the Austro-Prussian War (1866) with the effect that Austria was now excluded from Germany, and increasing ethnic conflicts in the multinational Habsburg Monarchy, a German national movement evolved in Austria. Led by the radical German nationalist and anti-semite Georg von Schönerer, organisations such as the \"Pan-German Society\" demanded the annexation of all German-speaking territories of the Danube Monarchy to the German Empire, and fervently rejected Austrian patriotism and a pan-Austrian identity. Schönerer's völkisch and racist German nationalism was an inspiration to Hitler's Nazi ideology.\n\nIn 1933, Austrian Nazis and the national-liberal Greater German People's Party formed an action group, fighting together against the Austrofascist regime which imposed a distinct Austrian national identity and in accordance said that Austrians were \"better Germans\", while Kurt Schuschnigg adopted a policy of appeasement towards Austrian-born Hitler's annexing of Austria to Nazi Germany and called Austria the \"better German state\", but he still struggled to keep Austria independent. With \"Anschluss\" of Austria in 1938, the historic aim of Austria's German nationalists was achieved.\n\nAfter the end of Nazi Germany and the events of World War II in 1945, the ideas of pan-Germanism and an \"Anschluss\" fell out of favour due to their association with Nazism and allowed Austrians to develop their own national identity. Nevertheless, such notions were revived with the German national camp in the Federation of Independents and the early Freedom Party of Austria.\n\nThe idea of including the North Germanic-speaking Scandinavians into a Pan-German state, sometimes referred to as Pan-Germanicism, was promoted alongside mainstream pan-German ideas. Jacob Grimm adopted Munch's anti-Danish Pan-Germanism and argued that the entire peninsula of Jutland had been populated by Germans before the arrival of the Danes and that thus it could justifiably be reclaimed by Germany, whereas the rest of Denmark should be incorporated into Sweden. This line of thinking was countered by Jens Jacob Asmussen Worsaae, an archaeologist who had excavated parts of Danevirke, who argued that there was no way of knowing the language of the earliest inhabitants of Danish territory. He also pointed out that Germany had more solid historical claims to large parts of France and England, and that Slavs—by the same reasoning—could annex parts of Eastern Germany. Regardless of the strength of Worsaae's arguments, pan-Germanism spurred on the German nationalists of Schleswig and Holstein and led to the First Schleswig War in 1848. In turn, this likely contributed to the fact that Pan-Germanism never caught on in Denmark as much as it did in Norway. Pan-Germanic tendencies were particularly widespread among the Norwegian independence movement. Prominent supporters included Peter Andreas Munch, Christopher Bruun, Knut Hamsun, Henrik Ibsen and Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson. Bjørnson, who wrote the lyrics for the Norwegian national anthem, proclaimed in 1901:\n\nAnti-German Scandinavism surged in Denmark in the 1930s and 1940s in response to the pan-Germanic ambitions of Nazi Germany.\n\nWorld War I became the first attempt to carry out the Pan-German ideology in practice, and the Pan-German movement argued forcefully for expansionist imperialism.\n\nFollowing the defeat in World War I, the influence of German-speaking elites over Central and Eastern Europe was greatly limited. At the Treaty of Versailles, Germany was substantially reduced in size. Austria-Hungary was split up. A Rump-Austria, which to a certain extent corresponded to the German-speaking areas of Austria-Hungary (a complete split into language groups was impossible due to multi-lingual areas and language-exclaves) adopted the name \"German Austria\" () in hope for union with Germany. Union with Germany and the name \"German Austria\" was forbidden by the Treaty of St. Germain and the name had to be changed back to Austria.\n\nIt was in the post-World War I period that the Austrian-born Adolf Hitler, under the influence of the stab-in-the-back myth, first took up German nationalist ideas in his \"Mein Kampf\". Hitler met Heinrich Class in 1918, and Class provided Hitler with support for the 1923 Beer Hall Putsch. Hitler and his National Socialist friends shared most of the basic pan-German visions with the Pan-German League, but differences in political style led the two groups to open rivalry. The German Workers Party of Bohemia cut its ties to the pan-German movement, which was seen as being too dominated by the upper classes, and joined forces with the German Workers Party led by Anton Drexler, which later became the National Socialist German Workers Party (Nazi party) that was to be headed by Adolf Hitler from 1921.\n\nNazi propaganda also used the political slogan \"Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein Führer\" (\"One people, one Reich, one leader\"), to enforce pan-German sentiment in Austria for an \"Anschluss\".\n\nThe \"Heim ins Reich\" (\"Back Home to the Reich\") initiative was a policy pursued by the Nazis which attempted to convince the ethnic Germans living outside of Nazi Germany (such as in Austria and Sudetenland) that they should strive to bring these regions \"home\" into a Greater Germany. This notion also led the way for an even more expansive state to be envisioned, the Greater Germanic Reich, which Nazi Germany tried to establish. This pan-Germanic empire was expected to assimilate practically all of Germanic Europe into an enormously expanded Greater Germanic Reich. Territorially speaking, this encompassed the already-enlarged Reich itself (consisting of pre-1938 Germany plus the areas annexed into the \"Großdeutsche Reich\"), the Netherlands, Belgium, areas in north-eastern France considered to be historically and ethnically Germanic, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Iceland, at least the German-speaking Switzerland, and Liechtenstein. The most notable exception was the predominantly Anglo-Saxon United Kingdom, which was not projected as having to be reduced to a German province but to instead become an allied seafaring partner of the Germans.\n\nThe eastern \"Reichskommissariats\" in the vast stretches of Ukraine and Russia were also intended for future integration, with plans for them stretching to the Volga or even beyond the Urals. They were deemed of vital interest for the survival of the German nation, as it was a core tenet of national-socialist ideology that it needed \"living space\" (\"Lebensraum\"), creating a \"pull towards the East\" (\"Drang nach Osten\") where that could be found and colonized, in a model that the Nazis explicitly derived from the American Manifest Destiny in the Far West and its clearing of native inhabitants.\n\nThe defeat of Germany in World War II brought about the decline of Pan-Germanism, much as World War I had led to the demise of Pan-Slavism. Parts of Germany itself were devastated, and the country was divided, firstly into Soviet, French, American, and British zones and then into West Germany and East Germany. To add to the disaster, Germany suffered even larger territorial losses than it did in the First World War, with vast portions of eastern Germany directly annexed by the Soviet Union and Poland. The scale of the Germans' defeat was unprecedented; Pan-Germanism became taboo because it had been tied to racist concepts of the \"master race\" and \"Nordicism\" by the Nazi party. However, the reunification of Germany in 1990 revived the old debates.\n\nUp to and during 18th century \n\n19th century \n\n20th century \n\n"}
{"id": "54539737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54539737", "title": "People or Personnel", "text": "People or Personnel\n\nPeople or Personnel is a critique of centralized power written by Paul Goodman and published by Random House in 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "4295768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4295768", "title": "Perillaldehyde", "text": "Perillaldehyde\n\nPerillaldehyde, or perilla aldehyde, is a natural organic compound found most abundantly in the annual herb perilla, but also in a wide variety of other plants and essential oils. It is a monoterpenoid containing an aldehyde functional group.\n\nPerillaldehyde, or volatile oils from perilla that are rich in perillaldehyde, are used as food additives for flavoring and in perfumery to add spiciness. Perillaldehyde can be readily converted to perilla alcohol, which is also used in perfumery. It has a mint-like, cinnamon odor and is primarily responsible for the flavor of perilla.\n\nThe oxime of perillaldehyde is known as perillartine or \"perilla sugar\" and is about 2000 times sweeter than sucrose and is used in Japan as a sweetener. \n"}
{"id": "14175176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14175176", "title": "Privatization in Croatia", "text": "Privatization in Croatia\n\nPrivatization in Croatia refers to political and economic reforms which include the privatization of state-owned assets in Croatia. Privatization started in the late 1980s under Yugoslav Prime Minister Ante Marković and mostly took place in the 1990s after the breakup of Yugoslavia, during the presidency of Franjo Tuđman and the rule of his party Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ), and continued in the 2000s with the privatization of large state enterprises. Many aspects of the privatization process are still seen as controversial as the political and economic turmoil, coupled with the events of the simultaneous 1991–95 independence war, are thought to have led to a degree of criminal activity.\n\nThe privatization process in the former Yugoslavia was initiated during the government of Yugoslav Prime Minister Ante Marković. In 1990 he introduced a privatization program, with newly passed federal laws on privatization allowing company management boards to initiate privatization, mainly through internal share-holding schemes, initially not tradeable in the stock exchange. This meant that the law put an emphasis on \"insider\" privatization to company workers and managers, to whom the shares could be offered at a discount. Yugoslav authorities used the term \"property transformation\" when referring to the process of transforming public ownership into private hands.\n\nSeparate privatization laws in individual republics soon replaced the federal law. Republic of Croatia replaced the federal law on privatization with its own privatization law in April 1991. The new law stipulated compulsory privatization and the elimination of public ownership, while publicly owned enterprises were to be transformed into joint-stock or limited liability companies. These new laws in Croatia and Slovenia were interpreted as tacit nationalization, a tendency of both governments to first re-nationalize public property in order to later proceed with privatization.\n\nAt the time Croatia gained independence, its economy, as well as the whole Yugoslav economy, was in the middle of recession. As a result of the 1991–95 war, infrastructure sustained massive damage, especially the revenue-rich tourism industry. Privatization and transformation from a planned economy to a market economy was thus slow and unsteady.\n\nDuring the rule of the Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ), Croatia initiated its privatization program in 1992 when companies began arranging sales of shares to their employees. Privatization revenues and two thirds of unsold shares were then transferred to the Development Fund, while the remainder of unsold shares was transferred to the Pension Fund and the Disability Insurance Fund, both controlled by the state. Privatization often involved appointing new managers close to HDZ, or even the party's leading members, a trend which discouraged foreign investors. The state also took full ownership of over 100 important large companies and appointed new managers there, who were also often members of the ruling party.\n\nWith the end of the war in 1995, Croatia's economy recovered moderately, but corruption, cronyism, and a general lack of transparency stymied economic reforms and foreign investment, accompanied by public distrust when many state-owned companies were sold to politically well-connected people at below-market prices, all of which were common to reforms that took place in most post-communist transition economies.\n\nPrimary method of privatization in Croatia was management employee buyouts, while the secondary method used was voucher privatization. In 1991 the private sector's share of GDP was 25 percent, and its share of employed workforce was 22 percent. The method of privatization contributed to the increase of state ownership because unsold shares were transferred to state funds. In 1999 the private sector's share in GDP reached 60 percent, which was significantly lower compared to other former socialist countries. The government retained 1-30% shareholdings in privatised firms in 33,4% of firms, and above 30% in 7,6% firms, much higher than other countries.\n\nIn 1995 a Ministry of Privatization was established with Ivan Penić as its first minister. The privatization program was criticized by Croatian economists who characterized it as crony capitalism. The ruling party was particularly criticised for transferring enterprises to a group of privileged owners connected to the party. Croatian president Franjo Tuđman was also a target of critics and allegations of nepotism and the likelihood that he personally profited. An alleged statement about 200 wealthy families that would manage Croatian economy is at times attributed to him, although others note that there is no evidence that Tuđman ever said that.\n\nThe privatization of large government-owned companies was practically halted during the war and in the years immediately following the conclusion of peace. As of 2000, roughly 70 percent of Croatia's major companies were still state-owned, including water, electricity, oil, transportation, telecommunications, and tourism.\n\nCroatian documentary series Gazda (\"The Boss\") covers the privatisation and rise of controversial tycoons during the 1990s Croatia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52114563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52114563", "title": "Reginald Hawkins", "text": "Reginald Hawkins\n\nReginald Hawkins (1923–2007) was a civil rights activist in Charlotte, NC for most of his life. He was the first African-American to run for Governor of North Carolina. He fought to desegregate Charlotte schools and businesses. His son-in-law was Hamaas Abdul Khaalis whose family was murdered in 1973 and who went on to commit the 1977 Hanafi Siege.\n\nReginald Hawkins was born in Beaufort, NC in 1923. He served as captain in the US Army during World War II. After completing his time in the service he attended Howard University where he got his degree in dentistry in 1948. He also received his MA of Divinity from Johnson C Smith University in 1973. He married Catherine Richardson while he was still in dental school and they had four children.\n\nHawkins and members of the NAACP differed over the best way to end school desegregation. Kelly Alexander wanted to sue the city of Charlotte over civil injustice. Hawkins believed that a confrontational approach was best through utilizing media coverage to help mobilize citizens, arguing \"The only way to move forward is to engage bigots in direct controversy within their own community. In order to make his point about the only way to move forward, Hawkins escorted Dorthy Counts, a young black girl to Harding High School, a white school in Charlotte. On September 4, 1957 Hawkins and Counts walked through a shower of spit and insults to integrate the first Mecklenburg County School. His actions that day created a lot of stir in both the white and African- American neighborhoods,creating a national name for Hawkins. From then on Hawkins became a prominent civil rights activist in Charlotte. In 1961 Hawkins led a boycott of Irwin Avenue Junior High School. He urged African-American Students to stay home instead of attending a second rate educational institution.\n\nDue to his disagreement with NAACP policies and in an attempt to distance himself from their \"communist\" label, Hawkins resigned his membership in 1958 and created the Mecklenburg Organization for Political Affairs (MOPA). MOPA used community activists within the African -American community to call for desegregation. Members took part in marches, picketing, protests, boycotts, and sit-in's, usually near schools or hospitals in the Charlotte area.Hawkins work helped successfully integrate many restaurants downtown including those in Belk's and Ivey's department stores.\n\nIn 1962 Hawkins filed suit against the North Carolina Dental Society for discrimination due to the fact they would not let him practice at Charlotte Memorial Hospital. He frequently led demonstrations outside the Mercy, Charlotte Memorial , Presbyterian and Good Samaritan hospitals in the Charlotte area. These demonstrations usually attracted a lot of press and generated controversy in the medical community. Hawkins continued to protest by writing Attorney General Robert Kennedy claiming that the hospitals were breaking their nondiscrimination policy that was one of the conditions of them receiving federal funding. By the end of 1962 the Department of Health ordered Memorial to desegregate their maternity and dentistry wards. Hawkins continued to protest until 1963 when the hospital declared an open door policy for all patients.\n\nOn November 22, 1965 four bombs exploded across Charlotte in the span of about 15 minutes. Hawkins home was hit as well as the homes of Kelly Alexander Sr, president of the NAACP, Fred Alexander, first African American City Council man, and Julius Chambers, a civil rights lawyer. The bombings caught the attention of the local news and put Charlotte into the violent category that cities like Birmingham and Jackson had already been placed in. No one was ever arrested for the bombings even though there was a state wide man hunt and the FBI still holds an open file on the event. Many people believe the bombings were resistance to efforts of desegregation that all four men were part of.\n\nHe also helped organize the 1963 March on Washington and was a great friend to Martin Luther King Jr. King was originally scheduled to stop in Charlotte and speak at one of Hawkins campaign events, but changed his plans and went to Memphis instead, where he was assassinated only a few days later.\n\nIn 1968 Hawkins announced his campaign for governor of North Carolina. His political actions had earned him many friends but also many enemies. He lost the Democratic primary to Robert W. Scott in a three-way race, earning 18.52% of the vote; Scott went on to win the election. He ran again governor again in 1972 and lost in the Democratic primary, winning 8.16% of the vote in a six-way race; the winner of the primary, Skipper Bowles, lost in the general election to Republican candidate James Holshouser. Even though he did not win, Hawkins' campaigns were symbolically important, showing that African-Americans did have the ability to run for office and try to make political changes.\n\nThroughout his life Hawkins was an ardent supporter of equal rights and integration. He continued his work, giving speeches and calling for change right up until his death in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "955340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=955340", "title": "Samisdat Publishers", "text": "Samisdat Publishers\n\nSamisdat Publishers, Ltd. was a small Canadian publishing house, founded in 1977, and owned and operated by Ernst Zündel, the German-born Holocaust denier, during the 1980s and 1990s. It was based in Toronto, Ontario, and is now defunct.\n\nThe name was taken from samizdat, a practice in the former Soviet bloc countries of covertly distributing documents which would have been impossible to publish openly.\n\nMost of the books and pamphlets published by Samisdat Publishers were associated in some way or another with Holocaust denial or promotion of Nazism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20936342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20936342", "title": "Slovenian Democratic Union", "text": "Slovenian Democratic Union\n\nThe Slovenian Democratic Union (, acronym SDZ) was a Slovenian liberal political party, active between 1989 and 1991, during the democratization and the secession of the Republic of Slovenia from Yugoslavia.\n\nThe party was founded on 11 January 1989 in the Cankar Hall in Ljubljana, and Dimitrij Rupel was elected as its president. It was one of the first political party established in opposition to the Communist regime. It was founded mostly by intellectuals around the alternative journal \"Nova revija\" and it was initially called Slovenian Democratic Union of Reason.\n\nIn December 1989, it joined the Democratic Opposition of Slovenia, together with the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, the Slovene Christian Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and the Greens of Slovenia. In April 1990, the coalition won the first free elections in Slovenia after World War II, gaining around 55% of the popular vote. The Slovenian Democratic Union received around 9,5% of the vote, becoming the third largest party in the coalition and the fifth in the Slovenian National Assembly. Despite the relatively modest result, members of the party covered several key positions in the new cabinet led by the Christian Democrat Lojze Peterle, such as the Ministry of Interior, Defence, Justice, Information. Besides, the party member France Bučar was elected president of the Slovenian Parliament.\n\nAfter the independence of Slovenia, the party split into two. Its left liberal wing, led by the president Dimitrij Rupel, founded the Democratic Party, while the conservative wing, led by the minister of justice Rajko Pirnat established the centre-right National Democratic Party. In the election of 1992, both parties suffered a defeat. The Democratic Party gained 5,01% of the popular vote, and in 1994, most of its members joined the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The National Democratic Party obtained 2,18% of the vote and no seats in Parliament. In 1993, the National Democrats joined the Slovene Christian Democrats, and in 1995 they switched to the Slovenian Social Democratic Party.\n\nDespite its relatively small popular support, the Slovenian Democratic Union was one of the most influential parties in Slovenia between 1988 and 1991. After its dissolution, its former members have become influential members of other political formations.\n\nThe legal successors of the Slovenian Democratic Union are the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2912228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2912228", "title": "State motorcyclists' rights organizations", "text": "State motorcyclists' rights organizations\n\nState motorcyclists' rights organizations (SMROs) exist in about 32 US states, 25 of which call themselves \"ABATE of (state name),\" the rest going by various other names. SMROs advocate for a point of view in motorcycling that is, in general, opposed to mandatory helmet laws, required motorcycle safety inspections, mandatory rider training and licensing, and other similar regulation. Instead SMROs favor optional or voluntary motorcycle rider safety education, training, and licensing, and greater public awareness of motorcyclist safety issues. They also favor stronger penalties for car driver infractions such as right of way violations, or when drivers are at fault in accidents that harm motorcycle riders. SMRO activities include lobbying legislatures, letter writing campaigns, and paying for public service announcements and political advertisements. To carry out lobbying at the national level, a coalition of SMRO's created the Motorcycle Riders Foundation (MRF) to lobby in Washington DC. The SMROs and MRF are often allied with the American Motorcyclist Association (AMA) on legislative issues.\n\nABATE is an acronym which originally stood for \"A Brotherhood Against Totalitarian Enactments\" and alternatively stands for \"American Bikers Against Totalitarian Enactments\", \"A Brotherhood Aimed Towards Education\", \"American Bikers for Awareness, Training & Education\", \"American Bikers Aimed Towards Education\", \"American Bikers Advocating Training & Education\" with other combination used.\n\nThe concept of ABATE began with Lou Kimzey, editor of \"Easyriders\" magazine in 1972. He and others saw the need for bikers to organize to fight against federal and state restrictions on motorcycling. Some 35 years later, most states have a state motorcyclists' rights organizations (SMRO), either called ABATE or some other name. October 1977 Lou Kimzey and \"Easyriders\" were relinquishing the organization to the people attending the meeting in Sacramento.\n\nIn 1986, many ABATE organizations met at what became the \"Meeting of the Minds\" conference. This conference began the process of SMROs working together and eventually led to the founding of the Motorcycle Rider's Foundation (MRF) which is considered a Motorcycle Rights Organization (MRO) based in Washington DC. This group of SMROs acted to eliminate federal helmet law requirements, make sure motorcycles are part of transportation planning and ensure that motorcycles are allowed on all public roads. \n\nMRF is an organization set up in Washington DC to watch over motorcycle legislation and to take action when the federal government has an agenda that would not be motorcycle friendly. SMRO's including ABATE work with the MRF and most have a state officer involved in the MRF. ABATE organization use the MRF to share state information, and get more information on a federal level as well as information from other states. Most SMRO and ABATE groups work with other (MRO) groups besides the MRF, such as the American Motorcyclist Association. Many ABATE organizations have websites, and most often list the other groups they are involved with, work with, from national MRO groups, insurance programs, lawyers, and rider training or safety and education programs. \n\nABATE was formed in response to keep motorcycle choppers, with extended front ends that were deemed unsafe, on the road; but now SMROs deal with a large variety of motorcycling related issues. Motorcycle safety training, health insurance issues and road engineering with respect to motorcycles are all areas dealt with by ABATE organizations. Many states' rider training programs are either run by or administered by ABATE organizations. ABATE of Arizona runs a Motorcycle Awareness Program or MAP.\n\nABATE groups also are involved in charity events like Toy Runs, food drives and first responder/EMT training. But ABATE is still a political organization exerting political clout through the activities of member motorcyclists. ABATE chapters exist in most states. ABATE is not a motorcycle club, nor is it a Harley riders only organization.\n\nThe Motorcycle Awareness Program (MAP), commonly referred to as The MAP Program or Share The Road Program, is an American creation of the combined efforts of various state motorcyclists' rights organizations. This program is geared toward teaching the driving public to maintain a greater awareness of the motorcyclists with whom they share the road. The success of the program has led to similar initiatives throughout the world.\n\nABATE of Arizona's MAP, is coordinated by the State Safety Officer of the organization, and is presented with the help of many members of the MRO's (ABATE and MMA of AZ) and Motorcycle Clubs throughout Arizona.\n\nMAP Certified Instructors guest lecture in driver's education classes throughout the region. The lecture includes information about how to \"Share the Road\" with motorcycles, vulnerability of motorcyclists, instructional videos and handouts, and an on-site riding demonstration to help visualize information presented. \n\nFunding for the MAP Program is provided by the membership of ABATE of Arizona, through their various fund raising events and membership dues. Additionally, some product and advertising funds are provided by the Motorcycle Safety Fund, made up of one dollar added registration tax on motorcycles within the state, through the Governor's Office of Highway Safety.\n\nABATE chapters have been criticized for the appearance of hypocrisy in their road safety message, in that while their public service advertisements aimed to get drivers to be more aware of motorcycles are helpful, the chapters undermine that message by opposing mandatory helmet laws, and by appearing to encourage alcohol consumption while riding.\n\nThe traffic and commuting beat columnist for \"The Baltimore Sun\", Michael Dresser, wrote in July 2007 that, \"While ABATE <nowiki>[of Maryland's]</nowiki> message is great, there are some problems with the messenger. <nowiki>[...]</nowiki> ABATE's arguments against helmet laws are largely based on the dubious premise that they violate individual rights or invade privacy. Gimme a break. Maryland has invested billions or dollars to build a public road system. So if the state decides to require users of that network to take steps to avoid spilling the contents of their skulls on public pavement, it is well within its rights.\" Dresser further criticizes the practice of holding the majority of Maryland ABATE chapter meetings in bars, pointing out his observation that one meeting place is at an open air bar where motorcycle riders can often be seen consuming alcohol before noon. Dresser contrasts this with the Motorcycle Safety Foundation, which has urged riders to not consume even one drink before riding, saying that even a road-legal blood alcohol level of 0.05% increases a rider's risk by 40 times, due to the greater challenge of motorcycle riding compared to driving a car. \n\nIn response to a deluge of counter-points and demands for an apology, Dresser ran a second column in which he offered 7 point-by-point rebuttals to the letters from ABATE members. Among the objections were that Dresser was unfairly perpetuating a stereotype of rowdy, irresponsibly-drunk bikers, and that due to this negative stereotype, the ABATE chapter had been turned down by more than 40 taverns before they found one to accept them. Members also said that the Founding Fathers of the United States also met in taverns to plan the revolution. Dresser was also criticized for emphasizing the helmet law issue, when in fact Maryland ABATE had made increased penalties for right-of-way violators a top legislative priority, and had assisted handicapped people in getting disabled parking permit license plates. In response to readers who emphasized the freedom of choice argument against helmet laws, Dresser replied that, \"Freedom is a much-abused word. There are essential freedoms -- free speech, free press, habeas corpus, religion, the ballot, to name a few -- that are worth fighting for. Then there's simply foolish behavior we're used to getting away with.\"\n\nThe following week, Dresser ran a third column in which he quoted letters from motorcyclists who were also uncomfortable with ABATE's anti-helmet law position, and from some ABATE members who agreed that the organization was excessively focused on alcohol consumption at their gatherings. Several other correspondents told anecdotes of helmet laws saving riders' lives, and others noted that the image of motorcyclists was not only harmed by hard-drinking middle-aged cruiser riders, which they saw as the ABATE demographic, but also by packs of young males speeding and doing stunts on sport bikes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1802213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1802213", "title": "State secrets privilege", "text": "State secrets privilege\n\nThe state secrets privilege is an evidentiary rule created by United States legal precedent. Application of the privilege results in exclusion of evidence from a legal case based solely on affidavits submitted by the government stating that court proceedings might disclose sensitive information which might endanger national security. \"United States v. Reynolds\", which involved military secrets, was the first case that saw formal recognition of the privilege.\n\nFollowing a claim of \"state secrets privilege\", the court rarely conducts an \"in camera\" examination of the evidence to evaluate whether there is sufficient cause to support the use of this doctrine. This results in court rulings in which even the judge has not verified the veracity of the assertion. The privileged material is completely removed from the litigation, and the court must determine how the unavailability of the privileged information affects the case.\n\nThe purpose of the state secrets privilege is to prevent courts from revealing state secrets in the course of civil litigation (in criminal cases, the Classified Information Procedures Act serves the same purpose). The government may intervene in any civil suit, including when it is not a party to the litigation, to ask the court to exclude state secrets evidence. While the courts may examine such evidence closely, in practice they generally defer to the Executive Branch. Once the court has agreed that evidence is subject to the state secrets privilege, it is excluded from the litigation. Often, as a practical matter, the plaintiff cannot continue the suit without the privileged information, and drops the case. Recently, courts have been more inclined to dismiss cases outright, if the subject matter of the case is a state secret.\n\nThe state secrets privilege is related to, but distinct from, several other legal doctrines: the principle of non-justiciability in certain cases involving state secrets (the so-called \"Totten Rule\"); certain prohibitions on the publication of classified information (as in \"New York Times Co. v. United States\", the Pentagon Papers case); and the use of classified information in criminal cases (governed by the Classified Information Procedures Act).\n\nThe doctrine was effectively imported from British law which has a similar privilege. It is debatable whether the state secrets privilege is based upon the President's powers as commander-in-chief and leader of foreign policy (as suggested in \"United States v. Nixon\") or derived from the idea of separation of powers (as suggested in \"United States v. Reynolds\"). It seems that the US privilege \"has its initial roots in Aaron Burr's trial for treason\". In this case, it was alleged that a letter from General James Wilkinson to President Thomas Jefferson might contain state secrets and could therefore not be divulged without risk to national security.\n\nThe privilege was first officially recognized by the Supreme Court of the United States in \"United States v. Reynolds\", . A military airplane, a B-29 Superfortress bomber, crashed. The widows of three civilian crew members sought accident reports on the crash but were told that to release such details would threaten national security by revealing the bomber's top-secret mission. The court held that only the government can claim or waive the privilege, but that it “is not to be lightly invoked” and that there “must be a formal claim of privilege, lodged by the head of the\ndepartment which has control over the matter, after actual personal\nconsideration by that officer.” The court stressed that the decision to withhold evidence is to be made by the presiding judge and not the executive.\n\nIn 2000, the accident reports were declassified and released, and it was found that the assertion that they contained secret information was fraudulent. The reports did, however, contain information about the poor condition of the aircraft itself, which would have been very compromising to the Air Force's case. Many commentators have alleged government misuse of secrecy in this landmark case.\n\nDespite this ruling, a case might still be subject to judicial review since the privilege was intended to prevent certain, but not all, information to be precluded.\n\nAccording to former White House Counsel, John Dean:\nWhile precise numbers are hard to come by (because not all cases are reported), a recent study reports that the \"Bush administration has invoked the state secrets privilege in 23 cases since 2001.\" By way of comparison, \"between 1953 and 1976, the government invoked the privilege in only four cases.\"\n\nWhile Henry Lanman reports in \"Slate\":\nthe Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press reported that while the government asserted the privilege approximately 55 times in total between 1954 (the privilege was first recognized in 1953) and 2001, it's asserted it 23 times in the four years after Sept. 11.\"\n\nHowever, at least one article has retracted these figures, finding they were based on erroneous information:\n\nCorrection: In this article, we incorrectly reported that the government invoked the state secrets privilege in 23 cases since 2001. The figure came from the 2005 Secrecy Report Card published by OpenTheGovernment.org. The privilege was actually invoked seven times from 2001 to 2005, according to the corrected 2005 report card, which is not an increase from previous decades.\n\nLanman continues to cite two political science professors at the University of Texas-El Paso who concluded that\ncourts have examined the documents' underlying claims of state secrecy fewer than one-third of the times it has been invoked. And ... courts have only actually rejected the assertion of the privilege four times since 1953.\n\nFollowing the September 11, 2001 attacks, the privilege is increasingly used to dismiss entire court cases, instead of only withholding the sensitive information from a case. Also in 2001, George W. Bush issued Executive Order 13233 extending the accessibility of the state secrets privilege to also allow \"former\" presidents, their designated representatives, or representatives designated by their families, to invoke it to bar records from their tenure.\n\nAn article in the \"New York Times\" in August 2007, on a lawsuit involving Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication concluded that the unprecedented frequency with which the Bush administration invoked the principle has made judges more skeptical and willing to ask the government to validate its claims. In the words of Tom Blanton, director of the National Security Archive at George Washington University\nWhat seems clear is that until a year or two ago, the judges rarely even questioned it when the government raised the 'state secrets' claim. It was a neutron bomb – no plaintiffs left standing. But we're now seeing that judges are starting to actually look behind the government's secrecy claims and see what's really there.\n\nSince 2001, there has been mounting criticism of the state secrets privilege. Such criticism generally falls into four categories:\n\nMany commentators have expressed concern that the courts never effectively scrutinize executive claims of privilege. Lacking independent national security expertise, judges frequently defer to the judgment of the executive and never subject executive claims to meaningful scrutiny.\n\nCommentators have suggested that the state secrets privilege might be used as often to prevent disclosure of embarrassing facts as to protect legitimate secrets. Or, in the words of Professors William G. Weaver and Robert M. Pallitto in an article in the Political Science Quarterly:\n[T]he incentive on the part of administrators is to use the privilege to avoid embarrassment, handicap political enemies, and to prevent criminal investigation of administrative action.\n\nIn several prominent cases, the evidence that the government successfully excluded was later revealed to contain no state secrets: \"United States v. Reynolds\", \"Sterling v. Tenet\", \"Edmonds v. Department of Justice\", and the \"Pentagon Papers\".\n\nSome academics and practitioners have criticized the expansion of the state secrets privilege from an evidentiary privilege (designed to exclude certain pieces of evidence) to a justiciability doctrine (designed to exclude entire lawsuits). Under its original formulation, the state secrets privilege was meant only to exclude a very narrow class of evidence whose revelation would harm national security. However, in a large percentage of recent cases, courts have gone a step further, dismissing entire cases in which the government asserts the privilege, in essence converting an evidentiary rule into a justiciability rule. The government response has been that in certain cases, the subject of the case is itself privileged. In these cases, the government argues, there is no plausible way to respond to a complaint without revealing state secrets.\n\nGlenn Greenwald alleges that the Bush administration attempted to expand executive power, as evidenced by the unitary executive theory propagated by John Yoo. The theory suggests that the President, as Commander-in-Chief, cannot be bound by Congress or any law, national or international. By invoking the state secrets privilege in cases involving actions taken in the war on terror (i.e. extraordinary rendition, allegations of torture, allegedly violating the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act), Greenwald opines the administration tried to evade judicial review of these claims of exceptional war powers. In effect, this is preventing a judicial ruling determining whether there is a legal basis for such expansive executive power. With that in mind, applying this privilege makes impeachment the only possible means left for Congress to exercise their duty to uphold the checks and balances constitutionally intended to prevent abuse of power.\n\nIn recent years, a number of commentators have called for legislative reforms to the state secrets privilege. These reforms center around several ideas:\n\n\nOn January 22, 2008, Senators Edward Kennedy and Arlen Specter introduced , the State Secrets Protection Act.\n\nIn \"United States v. Reynolds\" (1953), the widows of three crew members of a B-29 Superfortress bomber that had crashed in 1948 sought accident reports on the crash, but were told the release of such details would threaten national security by revealing the nature of the bomber's top-secret mission. The Supreme Court ruled that the executive branch could bar evidence from the court if it deemed that its release would impair national security. In 1996, the accident reports in question were declassified and released, and when discovered in 2000 were found to contain no secret information. They did, however, contain information about the poor condition of the aircraft itself, which would have been very compromising to the Air Force's case. Many legal experts have alleged government abuse of secrecy in this landmark case.\n\nFormer DEA agent Richard Horn brought a suit against the CIA for bugging his home. The case was dismissed because of the privilege.\n\nRichard Horn's case was reinstated on July 20, 2009, by U.S. District Court Judge Royce C. Lamberth on the basis that the CIA had engaged in fraud on the court.\n\nOn March 30, 2010, as a result of a multimillion-dollar settlement agreement between Horn and the government, Lamberth dismissed the underlying case with prejudice. Subsequently, later that same year, in a September 22 order, Lamberth issued a final order vacating his earlier opinions and orders finding that CIA lawyers, Tenet, and Brown had committed fraud on the court. Lamberth also specifically ordered that a sentence be removed from his March 30, 2010 Memorandum. The removed sentence had stated that \"allegations of wrongdoing by the government attorneys in this case are not only credible, they are admitted\".\n\nIn February 2002, it was invoked in the case of Notra Trulock, who launched a defamation suit against Los Alamos scientist Wen Ho Lee, charged with stealing nuclear secrets; President Bush stated that national security would be compromised if Trulock were allowed to seek damages from Lee; though it resulted in the case being dismissed, another suit was launched directly attacking then-FBI Director Louis Freeh for interfering and falsely invoking the state secrets privilege.\n\nThe privilege was invoked twice against Sibel Edmonds. The first invocation was to prevent her from testifying that the Federal Government had foreknowledge that Al-Qaeda intended to use airliners to attack the United States on September 11, 2001; the case was a $100 trillion action filed in 2002 by six hundred 9/11 victims' families against officials of the Saudi government and prominent Saudi citizens. The second invocation was in an attempt to derail her personal lawsuit regarding her dismissal from the FBI, where she had worked as a post-9/11 translator and had been a whistleblower.\n\nThe privilege was invoked in \"Thomas Burnett vs. Al Barka Investment & Development Corporation\" (Civil No. 04ms203) a motion to quash a subpoena for the testimony of Sibel Edmonds. The government's motion to quash based on state secrets privilege was granted in part.\n\nJeffrey Sterling was an African-American CIA agent who started a racial discrimination suit. It was thrown out on account of this privilege.\n\nThe privilege was invoked in \"Schwartz vs. TRW\" (Civil No. 96-3065, Central District, Cal) a Qui-Tam claim by Schwartz. Intervention and assertion of the state secrets privilege, by the government, resulted in case dismissal.\n\nThe privilege was invoked in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit case of \"Crater Corporation vs. Lucent Technologies Inc.\" and AT&T Company, (\"Crater Corp. v. Lucent Technologies\", September 7, 2005). Crater was prevented from proceeding with discovery in its patent infringement case (U.S. Patent No. 5,286,129) by the United States' assertion that discovery could cause \"extremely grave damage to national security\". The infringement case centered on wet-mate underwater fiber optic coupling devices beneath the sea.\n\nOn May 26, 2006, the U.S. Justice Department filed a motion to dismiss \"ACLU v. NSA\", the ACLU's lawsuit against the NSA by invoking the state secrets privilege. On July 26, 2006, the case was dismissed. In a different case in Michigan, brought by the ACLU against the NSA on behalf of various scholars, journalists, attorneys, and national non-profit organizations, Judge Anna Diggs Taylor ruled on August 17, 2006, that the program was unconstitutional and should be halted. She upheld the doctrine but ruled that the government's public statements concerning the operation were admissible and constituted sufficient proof for the case to continue without any privileged evidence or discovery. On July 6, 2007, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals threw out Taylor's decision, ruling 2-1 that the ACLU could not produce evidence to prove that the ACLU had been wrongfully wiretapped by the NSA and therefore did not have the standing to bring such a case to court, regardless of the legality question. On February 19, 2008, the Supreme Court declined to hear the ACLU's appeal.\n\nOn May 27, 2006, the Justice Department moved to preempt the Center for Constitutional Rights (CCR) challenge to warrantless domestic surveillance by invoking the state secrets privilege. The Bush Administration is arguing that CCR's case could reveal secrets regarding U.S. national security, and thus the presiding judge must dismiss it without reviewing the evidence.\n\nIn April 2006, the Bush administration took initial steps to use the state secrets rule to block a lawsuit against AT&T and the National Security Agency brought by the Electronic Frontier Foundation. The EFF alleged that the government has secret computer rooms conducting broad, illegal surveillance of American citizens. Testifying at a January 29, 2008, House Judiciary Committee hearing on reform of the state secrets privilege, EFF attorney Kevin Bankston contended that the administration's interpretation of the privilege was overly broad, and failed to properly consider the evidentiary procedures provided for by Section 1806(f) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. However, the case was dismissed on June 3, 2009, citing retroactive legislation (section 802 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act) stating that\nin the case of a covered civil action, the assistance alleged to have been provided by the electronic communication service provider was in connection with an intelligence activity involving communications that was authorized by the President during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on January 17, 2007; designed to detect or prevent a terrorist attack, or activities in preparation for a terrorist attack, against the United States; and the subject of a written request or directive, or a series of written requests or directives, from the Attorney General or the head of an element of the intelligence community (or the deputy of such person) to the electronic communication service provider indicating that the activity was authorized by the President; and determined to be lawful.\n\nIn May 2006, the illegal detention case of Khalid El-Masri was dismissed based on the privilege, which was invoked by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Khalid El-Masri alleged that he was falsely held by the CIA for several months (which the CIA acknowledges) and was beaten, drugged, and subjected to torture, degrading and inhuman while in United States captivity. He was ultimately released by the CIA with no charge ever being brought against him by the United States government. Judge T. S. Ellis III of the U.S. District Court dismissed the case because, according to the court, the simple fact of holding proceedings would jeopardize state secrets, as claimed by the CIA. On March 2, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed. On October 9, 2007, the Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of the Fourth Circuit's decision, letting the doctrine of state secrets privilege stand.\n\nThe privilege was invoked against a case where Maher Arar, a wrongfully-accused and tortured victim, sought to sue Attorney General John Ashcroft for his role in deporting Arar to Syria to face torture and extract false confessions. It was formally invoked by Deputy Attorney General James B. Comey in legal papers filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The invocation read, \"Litigating [the] plaintiff's complaint would necessitate disclosure of classified information\", which it later stated included disclosure of the basis for detaining him in the first place, the basis for refusing to deport him to Canada as he had requested, and the basis for sending him to Syria.\n\nOn January 4, 2007, District Court Judge Laura Taylor Swain ordered the dismissal of \"Jane Doe et al. v. CIA\", 05 Civ. 7939 based on the state secrets privilege. Jane Doe and her children sued the CIA for money damages after her husband's covert employment with the CIA was \"terminated immediately for unspecified reasons\".\n\nDetails about United Against Nuclear Iran are subject to US state secrets privilege, and according to the US government would do \" harm to national security if the information were disclosed.\"\n\nIn the 2011 General Dynamics case, the court unanimously held that \"when litigation would end up disclosing state secrets, courts may not try the claims and may not award relief to either party.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37399397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37399397", "title": "The New New Deal", "text": "The New New Deal\n\nThe New New Deal: The Hidden Story of Change in the Obama Era is a 2012 book about the Obama administration and its response to the world financial crisis written by journalist Michael Grunwald. He describes the discussions and debates that led to the government's anti-recession measures such as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA). Taking a positive review of the President's efforts, Grunwald defends the economic measures as full of important, long-term investments while charging Republican Party opponents as being hypocritical and self-serving. The book was published by Simon & Schuster on August 14, 2012.\n\nGrunwald had previously served as a journalist for \"Time\" as well as the author of the 2007 non-fiction work \"The Swamp: The Everglades, Florida, and the Politics of Paradise\". The title of his new book intentionally refers back to the 'New Deal' policies of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, a matter also much discussed in the book itself. Supportive reviews ran in publications such as \"Bloomberg View\", \"The Economist\", and \"Kirkus Reviews\", while negative reviews appeared in publications such as Reason.com and \"City Journal\".\n\nGrunwald describes the goals of the Obama administration as finding a \"direction, not a destination.\" Thus, he details the debates and discussions behind anti-recession measures as about \"metamorphosis\" as well as fiscal stimulus. President Obama took office in January 2009, Grunwald writes, and enacted a \"down payment on long-term goals\" in the short political time space that Obama had, using Obama's \"one shot to spend boatloads of money pursuing his vision.\" As Grunwald states, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) took shape based on a conscious desire to recreate the public works projects undertaken by President Franklin D. Roosevelt.\n\nIn addition, he writes about how Obama, in a particular contrast to Roosevelt, actively participated in the transition between his team and the George W. Bush administration. The new President, as he details, publicly supported the past Troubled Asset Relief Program as well as measures to assist the beleaguered U.S. auto industry. Grunwald also notes Obama’s choice of Rahm Emanuel as White House Chief of Staff as a prime example of Obama's effort to create a revamped version of Bill Clinton's insider policy team, with their Keynesian macro-economic view represented.\n\nGrunwald details how one administration adviser described the process as \"[s]omeone would make a single phone call, and suddenly it’s, 'All righty. Put a billion dollars over there'.\" Grunwald negatively portrays the objections of Republicans to the government spending increases as seizing an opportunity to oppose the new President. He argues that they opposed even things that they supposedly called for in the past, such as tax cuts, by refusing to co-operate at all, with Grunwald charging that Republicans knew they could portray themselves positively on the side of fiscal restraint should the economy falter further.\n\nUltimately, Grunwald accounts how Obama's $787 billion stimulus package amounted to about 4% of America’s GDP while, during the Great Depression, the biggest stimulus in any year amounted to just about 1.5% of GDP. The President's early, pre-inauguration plan, at $300 billion, increased given the particularly frustrating unemployment situation. Early 2009 data had presented losses of around 800,000 a month.\n\nHe writes that critics of ARRA correctly view it as using economic tools to alter American society, implementing particular school reforms, measures supporting low-carbon energy, health care regulations, and the like all in ways that shift more control to the executive branch and away from state and local governments. He quotes economist Larry Summers' observation that governments inherently make bad venture capitalists. However, Grunwald defends this overlying Obama policy as a set of bold investments, especially in regards to spending on untested new technologies, that will set up large future gains.\n\n\"City Journal\" ran a negative review by writer Judah Bellin. He wrote, \"[T]he stimulus provided sound basis for opposition: in addition to the well-publicized failures of Solyndra and Ener1, numerous infrastructure projects faced local obstacles and delays, leading to Obama’s memorable admission that 'shovel-ready was not as shovel-ready as we expected'.\" He also argued that \"Obama comes across as similarly unaware of the limits of top-down planning\" in the book as well as that the 2010 midterm elections provided a rejoinder to President Obama's economic policy vision.\n\n\"Kirkus Reviews\" published a positive review, describing the book as a \"cogent reality check\" as well as a \"pointed, in-the-trenches study whose thrust will be borne out with time. \"The Economist\" also ran a supportive review, the news-magazine stating that the book \"does a meticulous job, casting much new light on the advance thinking... both before the election and, especially, during the long transition\". In addition, \"The Economist\" concluded:\nThe editor-in-chief of \"The Politico\", John Harris, praised the book, arguing that it \"demolishes cliches and vividly reframes our thinking about President Obama and his stimulus package through a gripping narrative.\" Harris also wrote, \"Even if everyone doesn't agree with Grunwald's provocative conclusions, every serious reader will see in Grunwald’s book a vindication of serious journalism, at a time when we need it.\" \"Bloomberg View\" columnist Frank Wilkinson also commented on Grunwald's \"excellent book\", saying that he viewed Grunwald as \"a crisp and engaging writer\".\n\nTim Cavanaugh wrote for \"reason.com\" blasting the book and what he viewed as the author's \"chutzpah\"; he commented that Grunwald expressed \"no knowledge of economics beyond what figures in headlines, which is probably worse than knowing no economics at all.\" He also stated that the book's only strength was its \"rotisserie league party wonkery\" given that it otherwise, in his view, \"goes on for nearly half a thousand frequently repetitive pages of text, all explicating a convoluted set of theories.\" Cavanaugh argued:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59039511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59039511", "title": "Theory shells", "text": "Theory shells\n\nA theory shell, a type of theory argument, is employed in the activity of Lincoln-Douglas and policy debate. Theory in LD debate is all about proposing rules to abide by. As such, theory debaters argue that theory comes before substantive debate as theory helps to determine if the debate, in the first place, is skewed or even worth debating on. A theory shell seeks to do this by criticizing something the opponent did that had not followed your(the person using the shell) vision of how the debate should work. The means of how they are justified are usually in the terms of fairness and education. Theory shells are used by many competitors in the high school circuit and continue to be a popular argument used in LD and policy debate.\n\nA theory argument consists of 4 major parts: the interpretation, violation, standards and the voter(s). A theory shell helps to organize these theory arguments into a more collective idea that can be debated upon in a round. Shells are usually organized into groups denoted by an alphabetical letter - A for the interpretation, B for the violation, etc - and are read both on/off case.\n\nThe interpretation is the first part of a theory shell. Similar to the advocacy text run on an alternate plan(counterplan); the interpretation is the statement of a particular rule that all debaters must abide by. This can tell us what we can and cannot do as well as describe how this impacts the quality of the debate (refer to fairness and education). \n\nSolid interpretations are not too vague. Referencing a nib (necessary but insufficient burden) by saying that 'nibs are bad' is too vague and is open for easy interpretation by the opposing side. This allows for the opponent to easily contest the violations of the shell (which will be discussed later). When creating a shell you must be specific of what rule cannot be broken by highlighting what they cannot do.\n\nAnother thing to think about when creating theory shells is about being 'prescriptive and not descriptive'. A shell states what you cannot do rather than just explaining a rule. Going back to the same example with the nibs; saying that 'nibs are bad' just claims that they are bad and goes no further into what the debaters should do instead. This is especially important because debate itself is comparative meaning that even if a world with nibs is bad, it could mean that a world without them is even worse. This interpretation does not effort into describing what should be done along with offering no basis for the status quo opening the room up for interpretation. Thus, theory shells describe what a debater should do(not just a claim on if something is 'good' or 'bad'). An example interpretation for something called disclosure theory (the idea that all debaters must disclose) would be 'all Debaters must, on the page with their name and the school they attend, disclose the tag-lines, full citations, and the first and last three words of any pieces of evidence read in their case which they have read in their case in a previous round on the (NDCA) wiki at least one hour before the round'.\n\nThe next step of a shell after the interpretation is the violation. The violation is pretty straightforward; it establishes how the opponent violated or deviated from the given interpretation.\n\nThe most common method for locating and providing a violation is just to bring something up from the opponents case. If, in the negative's constructive, the neg reads that the aff must prove that it is feasible and that the we ought to take the aff action, they clearly violate the nib interpretation. \n\nAlso, another way to provide a violation is by asking them in crossfire(cx). Referencing back to disclosure theory; if you get the neg or aff to concede to not having disclosed, then you would just have to bring it up in your next speech in order to carry it across the flow. This allows for the judge to recognize the violation helps to establish a clear basis of argumentation for your case. Using direct examples and clear concessions are important to a strong shell. Some abusive debaters even manipulate the wording of the shell to get a violation from their opponent. This strategy becomes hard though when your violation is too specific.\n\nNext, after the violations, come the standards. Providing just a rule for the debate isn't enough. They require arguments and justifications, which are essentially the standards. Just like contentions in a traditional case, the standards act as the justification for the shell. Standards themselves are divided into 3 parts:the tag, warrant and the internal link.\n\nThe tag is designed to provide a summary of the argument. Tags for standards are usually one to two words long, with common tags including “ground, predictability, reciprocity, strategy skew, topic literature, etc.” Tags are important in helping to differentiate different standards as well as helping to weigh the various impacts in the shell. In the contention analogy, the tag “Contention 1: Giving adolescents autonomous medical choices saves lives” indicates to the judge to the judge that the contention will be about protecting lives without going into the micro analysis of how that will happen. A standard tag like “ground” does the same by indicating the types or quality of the arguments you have access to improves when the interpretation is adopted, without going into the specifics of how it happens.\n\nThe warrant is the second part of a standard and basically justifies a world with or without the interpretation. For example, if you were making an argument on 'ground' you would say how your opponent gives you no ground. This, in some occasion, involves evidence and provides a look at a world that excludes the given interpretation. Impacting these claims out to fairness and education are also common as it provides reasons of why they should be considered.\n\nMuch like any link in debate, an internal link is the establishment of the standards(tags) to the given voters. Much of the time they are obvious - proving that not disclosing leads to 'no research' can be linked to a lack of education from the round - but it is still important to prove these links. This is because many judges won’t evaluate theory without internal links, and having good internal links helps with weighing between theory impacts when your opponent doesn’t fully develop on their own.\n\nThe final part of a theory shell are the voters. Your voter finishes up your shell; you've detailed your rule, showed how your opponent violated it and provided why it was good, but you need to justify why your judge should vote on, or even consider, your rule. The voter explains to your judge why your shell is important and most often uses both fairness and education as grounds to do so. Voters are often warranted in terms of duties that are inherent to judging or the goals of debate as an activity. There are many other voters, other than fairness and education, that are employed as voters in order to justify your shell.\n\nRetrieved November 8, 2018 \n\nRetrieved November 9, 2018 \n\nRetrieved November 9,2018 \n\nRetrieved November 9, 2018 \n\n\"the debate guru\". Retrieved November 9,2018 \n"}
{"id": "26958201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26958201", "title": "Zheleznovodsk Communiqué", "text": "Zheleznovodsk Communiqué\n\nThe Zheleznovodsk Communiqué, also known as the Zheleznovodsk Declaration or Zheleznovodsk Accords, is the joint peace communiqué mediated by Russian President, Boris Yeltsin and Kazakh President, Nursultan Nazarbayev in Zheleznovodsk, Russia on September 23, 1991 with an intention to end the three-year-long hostilities between Armenia and Azerbaijan over the Nagorno-Karabakh region, still an autonomous oblast of the Azerbaijan SSR. Although consensus was reached, the treaty was never ratified.\n\nThe conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast of Azerbaijan SSR which started in early 1988 had developed unmitigated and claimed lives of many civilians, interior troops and army.\n\nWith consent from the authorities in Azerbaijan and Armenia, Boris Yeltsin and Nursultan Nazarbayev led a mediating mission on September 20–23 visiting Baku, Ganja, Stepanakert (Khankendi) and Yerevan. Taking the principles of territorial integrity, non-interference in internal affairs of sovereign states, observance of civil rights as the starting point, breakthrough was achieved on September 22 when Armenia renounced all its claims to Azerbaijani territory. This allowed the parties to agree to a joint communique the next day, committing both sides to disarm and withdraw militias, allow return of refugees and IDPs, re-establish Soviet-era administrative order of the Nagorno-Karabakh oblast and set up delegations to find a peaceful solution to the conflict. Soviet army and internal troops would still remain in the conflict zone and the process would be supervised by Russian and Kazakh officials. The peace communiqué was discussed with participation of Y. Shaposhnikov, V.Barannikov, S. Voskanyan, M. Gezalov, V. Dzhafarov, R. Kocharian, L. Petrosian, M. Radayev and was signed by Boris Yeltsin (Russian Federation), Ayaz Mutalibov (Azerbaijan), Nursultan Nazarbayev (Kazakhstan) and Levon Ter-Petrosian (Armenia).\nAfter, Azerbaijan motivated its actions by the crash of Azerbaijani MI-8 helicopter with Russian, Kazakh observers and Azerbaijani high-ranking state officials on board when it was shot down over Karakend village of Martuni District in uninvestigated circumstances in November 20.\n\n\n"}
