{"id": "2081586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081586", "title": "Action for Change", "text": "Action for Change\n\nThe Action for Change (AC) () was a political party in Mauritania. The party was led by Messaoud Ould Belkheir, and campaigned for greater rights for Mauritania's Haratin and black populations. The party was banned in January 2002.\n\nThe first election contested by the AC was the 1996 parliamentary election, with the party coming third, with 5.3% of the vote and 1 seat in parliament.\n\nThe party also went on to contest the 2001 parliamentary election, winning 5.5% of the popular vote and 4 out of 81 seats.\n\nThe party was banned in January 2002 following accusations by the government that the party threatened Mauritanian national unity and was threatening Mauritania's relations with Senegal. Communications Minister Chyakh Ould Ely accused the party of being racist and violent. The party was allowed to keep its four parliamentary seats.\n\nMessaoud Ould Belkheir, the leader of the AC strongly denied the allegations made against the party, and claimed that the party was instead being banned as part of a crackdown in dissent by the government, and also because of the parties recent electoral gains.\n"}
{"id": "1030278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1030278", "title": "All India Kisan Sabha (Ashoka Road)", "text": "All India Kisan Sabha (Ashoka Road)\n\nAll India Kisan Sabha (Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha) (AIKS), is the peasants front of Communist Party of India (Marxist), and works for farmers rights and anti-feudal movement in India, which traces its origin to All India Kisan Sabha founded in 1936.\n\nIt is sometimes referred to as All India Kisan Sabha (36 Canning Lane), to distinguish it from the AIKS of Communist Party of India. Both the Kisan federations are derived from the All India Kisan Sabha started by Swami Sahajanand Saraswati in 1936. The AIKS of CPI is sometimes called AIKS (Ajoy Bhavan).\n\nThe Kisan Sabha movement started in Bihar under the leadership of Swami Sahajanand Saraswati who had formed in 1929 the Bihar Provincial Kisan Sabha (BPKS) in order to mobilise peasant grievances against the zamindari attacks on their occupancy rights.\n\nGradually the peasant movement intensified and spread across the rest of India. All these radical developments on the peasant front culminated in the formation of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) at the Lucknow session of the Indian National Congress in April 1936 with Swami Sahajanand Saraswati elected as its first President. The other prominent members of this Sabha were N.G. Ranga, Ram Manohar Lohia, Jayaprakash Narayan, Acharya Narendra Dev and Bankim Mukerji.\n\nThe main aim of the sabha were:-\n1)To save the peasants from exploitation by any section of the society.\n2)Abolition of zamindari and jagirdari system\n3)To save the peasants from economic exploitation\n4)Ownership of land by the peasants\n5)Reduction in the rates of land revenue\n6)Waiving of debts\n7)Better arrangements of irrigation\n8)To give recognition to Kisan Sabhas\n\nThe Kisan Sabha started agitations against the landlords. In the 1937-38, they started a movement for the ownership of the lands by the peasants who worked on it and to bring about the end of forced labour. The farmers revolted against the Jagirdars who did not give them any rights on the land.As a result, the conflict between the peasants and the landlords became more intense. The government arrested 600 Kisan demonstrators and suppressed the movement.\n\nIn 1939, when the second world war began, the Government enforced the Defence of India Rules strictly to crush the peasant movement. But the Kisan union continued struggle forcefully.\n\nThe address of AIKS is 36, Canning Lane, New Delhi. \n\n\"This chart uses the Indian numeral system\"\n\n"}
{"id": "215140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215140", "title": "American imperialism", "text": "American imperialism\n\nAmerican imperialism is a policy aimed at extending the political, economic, and cultural control of the United States government over areas beyond its boundaries. It can be accomplished in any number of ways: by military conquest, by treaty, by subsidization, by economic penetration through private companies followed by intervention when those interests are threatened, or by regime change.\n\nThe concept of expanding territorial control was popularized in the 19th century as the doctrine of Manifest Destiny and was realized through conquests such as the Mexican–American War of 1846, which resulted in the annexation of 525,000 square miles of Mexican territory. While the US government does not refer to itself as an empire, the continuing phenomenon has been acknowledged by mainstream Western writers including Max Boot, Arthur Schlesinger, and Niall Ferguson.\n\nThomas Jefferson, in the 1790s, awaited the fall of the Spanish Empire \"until our population can be sufficiently advanced to gain it from them piece by piece\". In turn, historian Sidney Lens notes that \"the urge for expansionat the expense of other peoplesgoes back to the beginnings of the United States itself\". Yale historian Paul Kennedy put it, \"From the time the first settlers arrived in Virginia from England and started moving westward, this was an imperial nation, a conquering nation.\" Detailing George Washington's description of the early United States as an \"infant empire\", Benjamin Franklin's writing that \"the Prince that acquires new Territory ... removes the Natives to give his own People Room ... may be properly called [Father] of [his] Nation\", and Thomas Jefferson's statement that the United States \"must be viewed as the nest from which all America, North & South is to be peopled\", Noam Chomsky said that \"the United States is the one country that exists, as far as I know, and ever has, that was founded as an empire explicitly\".\n\nA national drive for territorial acquisition across the continent was popularized in the 19th century as the ideology of Manifest Destiny. It came to be realized with the Mexican–American War of 1846, which resulted in the annexation of 525,000 square miles of Mexican territory, stretching up to the Pacific coast.\n\nPresident James Monroe presented his famous doctrine for the western hemisphere in 1823. Historians have observed that while the Monroe Doctrine contained a commitment to resist colonialism from Europe, it had some aggressive implications for American policy, since there were no limitations on the US's own actions mentioned within it. Scholar Jay Sexton notes that the tactics used to implement the doctrine were \"modeled after those employed by British imperialists\" in their territorial competition with Spain and France. Eminent historian William Appleman Williams dryly described it as \"imperial anti-colonialism.\" \n\nThe Indian Wars against the indigenous population began in the British era. Their escalation under the federal republic allowed the US to dominate North America and carve out the 48 continental states. This is now understood to be an explicitly colonial process, as the Native American nations were usually recognized as sovereign entities prior to annexation. Their sovereignty was systematically undermined by US state policy (usually involving unequal or broken treaties) and white settler-colonialism. The climax of this process was the California genocide.\n\nA variety of factors converged during the \"New Imperialism\" of the late 19th century, when the United States and the other great powers rapidly expanded their overseas territorial possessions. Some of these are explained, or used as examples for the various forms of New Imperialism.\n\nRoosevelt claimed that he rejected imperialism, but he embraced the near-identical doctrine of expansionism. When Rudyard Kipling wrote the imperialist poem \"The White Man's Burden\" for Roosevelt, the politician told colleagues that it was “rather poor poetry, but good sense from the expansion point of view.\" Roosevelt was so committed to dominating Spain's former colonies that he proclaimed his own corollary to the Monroe Doctrine as justification, although his ambitions extended even further, into the Far East. Scholars have documented the resemblance and collaboration between US and British military activities in the Pacific at this time.\n\nIndustry and trade are two of the most prevalent motivations of imperialism. American intervention in both Latin America and Hawaii resulted in multiple industrial investments, including the popular industry of Dole bananas. If the United States was able to annex a territory, in turn they were granted access to the trade and capital of those territories. In 1898, Senator Albert Beveridge proclaimed that an expansion of markets was absolutely necessary, \"American factories are making more than the American people can use; American soil is producing more than they can consume. Fate has written our policy for us; the trade of the world must and shall be ours.\"\n\nAmerican rule of ceded Spanish territory was not uncontested. The Philippine Revolution had begun in August 1896 against Spain, and after the defeat of Spain in the Battle of Manila Bay, began again in earnest, culminating in the Philippine Declaration of Independence and the establishment of the First Philippine Republic. The Philippine–American War ensued, with extensive damage and death, ultimately resulting in the defeat of the Philippine Republic. According to scholars such as Gavan McCormack and E. San Juan, the American counterinsurgency resulted in genocide.\nThe maximum geographical extension of American direct political and military control happened in the aftermath of World War II, in the period after the surrender and occupations of Germany and Austria in May and later Japan and Korea in September 1945 and before the independence of the Philippines in July 1946.\n\nStuart Creighton Miller says that the public's sense of innocence about Realpolitik impairs popular recognition of U.S. imperial conduct. The resistance to actively occupying foreign territory has led to policies of exerting influence via other means, including governing other countries via surrogates or puppet regimes, where domestically unpopular governments survive only through U.S. support.\n\nThe Philippines is sometimes cited as an example. After Philippine independence, the US continued to direct the country through Central Intelligence Agency operatives like Edward Lansdale. As Raymond Bonner and other historians note, Lansdale controlled the career of President Ramon Magsaysay, going so far as to physically beat him when the Philippine leader attempted to reject a speech the CIA had written for him. American agents also drugged sitting President Elpidio Quirino and prepared to assassinate Senator Claro Recto. Prominent Filipino historian Roland G. Simbulan has called the CIA \"US imperialism's clandestine apparatus in the Philippines\".\n\nThe U.S. retained dozens of military bases, including a few major ones. In addition, Philippine independence was qualified by legislation passed by the U.S. Congress. For example, the Bell Trade Act provided a mechanism whereby U.S. import quotas might be established on Philippine articles which \"are coming, or are likely to come, into substantial competition with like articles the product of the United States\". It further required U.S. citizens and corporations be granted equal access to Philippine minerals, forests, and other natural resources. In hearings before the Senate Committee on Finance, Assistant Secretary of State for Economic Affairs William L. Clayton described the law as \"clearly inconsistent with the basic foreign economic policy of this country\" and \"clearly inconsistent with our promise to grant the Philippines genuine independence\".\n\nThe United States has aggressively used its power to expand its influence in recent times, seeking to enter numerous countries militarily, such as Afghanistan and Iraq; building military bases around the world, especially in the Arab countries of the Persian Gulf; deploying its navy in the South China Sea, widely seen as a way to contain Chinese claims in the South China Sea; supporting the overthrow of democratically elected governments such as Venezuela, Iran, and Syria; supporting rebel groups in Libya and Syria; continuing the allegedly illegal occupation of the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba; influencing the complete blockade of countries such as Qatar; using the dominance of the US dollar in worldwide trade to sanction rival countries such as Turkey, Russia, Venezuela and Iran; initiating a trade war with major economic rival China; using protectionist measures against traditional allies and fellow WTO-members citing \"national security\" concerns, Canada, Mexico, and the European Union; and embargoing countries such as Cuba.\n\nAmerican exceptionalism is the notion that the United States occupies a special niche among the nations of the world in terms of its national credo, historical evolution, and political and religious institutions and origins.\n\nPhilosopher Douglas Kellner traces the identification of American exceptionalism as a distinct phenomenon back to 19th century French observer Alexis de Tocqueville, who concluded by agreeing that the U.S., uniquely, was \"proceeding along a path to which no limit can be perceived\".\n\nPresident Donald Trump has once said that he does not \"like the term\" \"American exceptionalism\" because he thinks it is \"insulting the world\". He told tea party activists in Texas that \"If you're German, or you're from Japan, or you're from China, you don't want to have people saying that.\"\n\nAs a \"Monthly Review\" editorial opines on the phenomenon, \"in Britain, empire was justified as a benevolent 'white man's burden'. And in the United States, empire does not even exist; 'we' are merely protecting the causes of freedom, democracy and justice worldwide.\"\n\nWhen World War I broke out in Europe, President Woodrow Wilson promised American neutrality throughout the war. This promise was broken when the United States entered the war after the Zimmermann Telegram. This was \"a war for empire\" to control vast raw materials in Africa and other colonized areas according to the contemporary historian and civil rights leader W. E. B. Du Bois. More recently historian Howard Zinn argues that Wilson entered the war in order to open international markets to surplus US production. He quotes Wilson's own declaration that\nConcessions obtained by financiers must be safeguarded by ministers of state, even if the sovereignty of unwilling nations be outraged in the process... the doors of the nations which are closed must be battered down.\n\nIn a memo to Secretary of State Bryan, the president described his aim as \"an open door to the world\". Lloyd Gardner notes that Wilson's original avoidance of world war was not motivated by anti-imperialism; his fear was that \"white civilization and its domination in the world\" were threatened by \"the great white nations\" destroying each other in endless battle.\n\nDespite President Wilson's official doctrine of moral diplomacy seeking to \"make the world safe for democracy\", some of his activities at the time can be viewed as imperialism to stop the advance of democracy in countries such as Haiti. The United States invaded Haiti in July 1915 after having made landfall eight times previously. American rule in Haiti continued through 1942, but was initiated during World War I. The historian Mary Renda in her book, \"Taking Haiti\", talks about the American invasion of Haiti to bring about political stability through U.S. control. The American government did not believe Haiti was ready for self-government or democracy, according to Renda. In order to bring about political stability in Haiti, the United States secured control and integrated the country into the international capitalist economy, while preventing Haiti from practicing self-governance or democracy. While Haiti had been running their own government for many years before American intervention, the U.S. government regarded Haiti as unfit for self-rule. In order to convince the American public of the justice in intervening, the United States government used paternalist propaganda, depicting the Haitian political process as uncivilized. The Haitian government would come to agree to U.S. terms, including American overseeing of the Haitian economy. This direct supervision of the Haitian economy would reinforce U.S. propaganda and further entrench the perception of Haitians being incompetent of self-governance.\n\nIn World War I, the US, Britain, and Russia had been allies for seven months, from April 1917 until the Bolsheviks seized power in Russia in November. Active distrust surfaced immediately, as even before the October Revolution, British officers had been involved in the Kornilov Affair which sought to crush the Russian anti-war movement and the independent soviets. Nonetheless, once the Bolsheviks took Moscow, the British began talks to try and keep them in the war effort. British diplomat Bruce Lockhart cultivated a relationship with several Soviet officials, including Leon Trotsky, and the latter approved the initial Allied military mission to secure the Eastern Front, which was collapsing in the revolutionary upheaval. Ultimately, Soviet head of state V.I. Lenin decided the Bolsheviks would settle peacefully with the Central Powers at the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. This separate peace led to Allied disdain for the Soviets, since it left the Western Allies to fight Germany without a strong Eastern partner. The British SIS, supported by US diplomat Dewitt C. Poole, sponsored an attempted coup in Moscow involving Bruce Lockhart and Sidney Reilly, which involved an attempted assassination of Lenin. The Bolsheviks proceeded to shut down the British and US embassies.\n\nTensions between Russia (including its allies) and the West turned intensely ideological. Horrified by mass executions of White forces, land expropriations, and widespread repression, the Allied military expedition now assisted the anti-Bolshevik Whites in the Russian Civil War, with the British and French giving armed support to the brutal General Alexander Kolchak. Over 30,000 Western troops were deployed in Russia overall. This was the first event which made Russian–American relations a matter of major, long-term concern to the leaders in each country. Some historians, including William Appleman Williams and Ronald Powaski, trace the origins of the Cold War to this conflict.\n\nWilson launched seven armed interventions, more than any other president. Looking back on the Wilson era, General Smedley Darlington Butler, a leader of the Haiti expedition and the highest-decorated Marine of that time, considered virtually all of the operations to have been economically motivated. In a 1933 speech he said:I was a racketeer, a gangster for capitalism. I suspected I was just part of a racket at the time. Now I am sure of it...I helped make Mexico, especially Tampico, safe for American oil interests in 1914. I helped make Haiti and Cuba a decent place for the National City Bank boys to collect revenues in. I helped in the raping of half a dozen Central American republics for the benefits of Wall Street ... Looking back on it, I feel that I could have given Al Capone a few hints. The best he could do was to operate his racket in three districts. I operated on three continents. \n\nJournalist Ashley Smith divides theories of the U.S. imperialism into 5 broad categories: (1) \"liberal\" theories, (2) \"social-democratic\" theories, (3) \"Leninist\" theories, (4) theories of \"super-imperialism\", and (5) \"Hardt-and-Negri\" theories.\n\nThere is also a conservative, anti-interventionist view as expressed by American journalist John T. Flynn:\n\nThe enemy aggressor is always pursuing a course of larceny, murder, rapine and barbarism. We are always moving forward with high mission, a destiny imposed by the Deity to regenerate our victims, while incidentally capturing their markets; to civilise savage and senile and paranoid peoples, while blundering accidentally into their oil wells.\n\nA \"social-democratic\" theory says that imperialistic U.S. policies are the products of the excessive influence of certain sectors of U.S. business and government—the arms industry in alliance with military and political bureaucracies and sometimes other industries such as oil and finance, a combination often referred to as the \"military–industrial complex\". The complex is said to benefit from war profiteering and the looting of natural resources, often at the expense of the public interest. The proposed solution is typically unceasing popular vigilance in order to apply counter-pressure. Chalmers Johnson holds a version of this view.\n\nAlfred Thayer Mahan, who served as an officer in the U.S. Navy during the late 19th century, supported the notion of American imperialism in his 1890 book titled \"The Influence of Sea Power upon History\". Mahan argued that modern industrial nations must secure foreign markets for the purpose of exchanging goods and, consequently, they must maintain a maritime force that is capable of protecting these trade routes.\n\nA theory of \"super-imperialism\" argues that imperialistic U.S. policies are not driven solely by the interests of American businesses, but also by the interests of a larger apparatus of a global alliance among the economic elite in developed countries. The argument asserts that capitalism in the Global North (Europe, the U.S., Japan, among others) has become too entangled to permit military or geopolitical conflict between these countries, and the central conflict in modern imperialism is between the Global North (also referred to as the global core) and the Global South (also referred to as the global periphery) rather than between the imperialist powers.\n\nFollowing the invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, the idea of American imperialism was reexamined. In November 2001, jubilant marines hoisted an American flag over Kandahar and in a stage display referred to the moment as the third after those on San Juan Hill and Iwo Jima. All moments, writes Neil Smith, express US global ambition. \"Labelled a war on terrorism, the new war represents an unprecedented quickening of the American Empire, a third chance at global power.\"\n\nOn October 15, the cover of William Kristol's \"Weekly Standard\" carried the headline, \"The Case for American Empire\". Rich Lowry, editor in chief of the National Review, called for \"a kind of low-grade colonialism\" to topple dangerous regimes beyond Afghanistan. The columnist Charles Krauthammer declared that, given complete U.S. domination \"culturally, economically, technologically and militarily\", people were \"now coming out of the closet on the word 'empire. The \"New York Times\" Sunday magazine cover for January 5, 2003, read \"American Empire: Get Used To It\". The phrase \"American empire\" appeared more than 1000 times in news stories during November 2002 – April 2003. Two Harvard Historians and their French colleague observed:\n\nIn the book \"Empire\", Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri argue that \"the decline of Empire has begun\". Hardt says the Iraq War is a classically imperialist war, and is the last gasp of a doomed strategy. They expand on this, claiming that in the new era of imperialism, the classical imperialists retain a colonizing power of sorts, but the strategy shifts from military occupation of economies based on physical goods to a networked biopower based on an informational and affective economies. They go on to say that the U.S. is central to the development of this new regime of international power and sovereignty, termed \"Empire\", but that it is decentralized and global, and not ruled by one sovereign state: \"the United States does indeed occupy a privileged position in Empire, but this privilege derives not from its similarities to the old European imperialist powers, but from its differences\". Hardt and Negri draw on the theories of Spinoza, Foucault, Deleuze and Italian autonomist Marxists.\n\nGeographer David Harvey says there has emerged a new type of imperialism due to geographical distinctions as well as unequal rates of development. He says there has emerged three new global economic and political blocs: the United States, the European Union and Asia centered on China and Russia. He says there are tensions between the three major blocs over resources and economic power, citing the 2003 invasion of Iraq, the motive of which, he argues, was to prevent rival blocs from controlling oil. Furthermore, Harvey argues that there can arise conflict within the major blocs between business interests and the politicians due to their sometimes incongruent economic interests. Politicians live in geographically fixed locations and are, in the U.S. and Europe, accountable to an electorate. The 'new' imperialism, then, has led to an alignment of the interests of capitalists and politicians in order to prevent the rise and expansion of possible economic and political rivals from challenging America's dominance.\n\nClassics professor and war historian Victor Davis Hanson dismisses the notion of an American Empire altogether, with a mocking comparison to historical empires: \"We do not send out proconsuls to reside over client states, which in turn impose taxes on coerced subjects to pay for the legions. Instead, American bases are predicated on contractual obligations — costly to us and profitable to their hosts. We do not see any profits in Korea, but instead accept the risk of losing almost 40,000 of our youth to ensure that Kias can flood our shores and that shaggy students can protest outside our embassy in Seoul.\"\n\nThe existence of \"proconsuls\", however, has been recognized by many since the early Cold War. In 1957, French Historian, Amaury de Riencourt, associated the American \"proconsul\" with \"the Roman of our time\". Expert on recent American history, Arthur M. Schlesinger detected several contemporary imperial features, including \"proconsuls\": Washington does not directly run many parts of the world. Rather, its \"informal empire\" was one \"richly equipped with imperial paraphernalia: troops, ships, planes, bases, proconsuls, local collaborators, all spread wide around the luckless planet.\" \"The Supreme Allied Commander, always an American, was an appropriate title for the American proconsul whose reputation and influence outweighed those of European premiers, presidents, and chancellors.\" US \"combatant commanders ... have served as its proconsuls. Their standing in their regions has usually dwarfed that of ambassadors and assistant secretaries of state.\" Harvard Historian Niall Ferguson calls the regional combatant commanders, among whom the whole globe is divided, the \"pro-consuls\" of this \"imperium\". Günter Bischof calls them \"the all powerful proconsuls of the new American empire. Like the proconsuls of Rome they were supposed to bring order and law to the unruly and anarchical world\". In September 2000, \"Washington Post\" reporter Dana Priest published a series of articles whose central premise was Combatant Commanders' inordinate amount of political influence within the countries in their areas of responsibility. They \"had evolved into the modern-day equivalent of the Roman Empire’s proconsuls—well-funded, semi-autonomous, unconventional centers of US foreign policy\". The Romans often preferred to exercise power through friendly client regimes, rather than direct rule: \"until Jay Garner and L. Paul Bremer became US proconsuls in Baghdad, that was the American method too\".\n\nAnother distinction of Victor Davis Hanson—that US bases, contrary to the legions, are costly to America and profitable for their hosts—expresses the American view. The hosts express a diametrically opposite view. Japan pays for 25,000 Japanese working on US bases. 20% of those workers provide entertainment: a list drawn up by the Japanese Ministry of Defense included 76 bartenders, 48 vending machine personnel, 47 golf course maintenance personnel, 25 club managers, 20 commercial artists, 9 leisure-boat operators, 6 theater directors, 5 cake decorators, 4 bowling alley clerks, 3 tour guides and 1 animal caretaker. Shu Watanabe of the Democratic Party of Japan asks: \"Why does Japan need to pay the costs for US service members' entertainment on their holidays?\" One research on host nations support concludes:\nIn fact, increasing the \"economic burdens of the allies\" is one of the major priorities of President Donald Trump. Classicist Eric Adler notes that Hanson earlier had written about the decline of the classical studies in the United States and insufficient attention devoted to the classical experience. \"When writing about American foreign policy for a lay audience, however, Hanson himself chose to castigate Roman imperialism in order to portray the modern United States as different from—and superior to—the Roman state.\" As a supporter of a hawkish unilateral American foreign policy, Hanson's \"distinctly negative view of Roman imperialism is particularly noteworthy, since it demonstrates the importance a contemporary supporter of a hawkish American foreign policy places on criticizing Rome\".\n\nAnnexation is a crucial instrument in the expansion of a nation, due to the fact that once a territory is annexed it must act within the confines of its superior counterpart. The United States Congress' ability to annex a foreign territory is explained in a report from the Congressional Committee on Foreign Relations, \"If, in the judgment of Congress, such a measure is supported by a safe and wise policy, or is based upon a natural duty that we owe to the people of Hawaii, or is necessary for our national development and security, that is enough to justify annexation, with the consent of the recognized government of the country to be annexed.\"\n\nPrior to annexing a territory, the American government still held immense power through the various legislations passed in the late 1800s. The Platt Amendment was utilized to prevent Cuba from entering into any agreements with foreign nations, and also granted the Americans the right to build naval stations on their soil. Executive officials in the American government began to determine themselves the supreme authority in matters regarding the recognition or restriction of independence.\n\nWhen asked on April 28, 2003, on Al Jazeera whether the United States was \"empire building\", Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld replied, \"We don't seek empires, we're not imperialistic. We never have been.\"\n\nHowever, historian Donald W. Meinig says the imperial behavior by the United States dates at least to the Louisiana Purchase, which he describes as an \"imperial acquisition—imperial in the sense of the aggressive encroachment of one people upon the territory of another, resulting in the subjugation of that people to alien rule\". The U.S. policies towards the Native Americans he said were \"designed to remold them into a people more appropriately conformed to imperial desires\".\n\nWriters and academics of the early 20th century, like Charles A. Beard, in support of non-interventionism (sometimes referred to as \"isolationism\"), discussed American policy as being driven by self-interested expansionism going back as far as the writing of the Constitution. Some politicians today do not agree. Pat Buchanan claims that the modern United States' drive to empire is \"far removed from what the Founding Fathers had intended the young Republic to become.\"\n\nAndrew Bacevich argues that the U.S. did not fundamentally change its foreign policy after the Cold War, and remains focused on an effort to expand its control across the world. As the surviving superpower at the end of the Cold War, the U.S. could focus its assets in new directions, the future being \"up for grabs\" according to former Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Paul Wolfowitz in 1991. Head of the Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University, Stephen Peter Rosen, maintains: \n\nIn , the political activist Noam Chomsky argues that exceptionalism and the denials of imperialism are the result of a systematic strategy of propaganda, to \"manufacture opinion\" as the process has long been described in other countries.\n\nThorton wrote that \"[...]imperialism is more often the name of the emotion that reacts to a series of events than a definition of the events themselves. Where colonization finds analysts and analogies, imperialism must contend with crusaders for and against.\" Political theorist Michael Walzer argues that the term hegemony is better than empire to describe the US's role in the world; political scientist Robert Keohane agrees saying, a \"balanced and nuanced analysis is not aided ... by the use of the phrase 'empire' to describe United States hegemony, since 'empire' obscures rather than illuminates the differences in form of rule between the United States and other Great Powers, such as Great Britain in the 19th century or the Soviet Union in the twentieth\".\n\nSince 2001, Emmanuel Todd assumes that USA cannot hold for long the status of mondial hegemonic power due to limited resources. Instead, the USA is going to become just one of the major regional powers along with European Union, China, Russia, etc. Reviewing Todd's \"After the Empire\", G. John Ikenberry found that it had been written in \"a fit of French wishful thinking\". The thinking proved to be \"wishful\" indeed, as the book became a bestseller in France for most of the year 2003.\n\nOther political scientists, such as Daniel Nexon and Thomas Wright, argue that neither term exclusively describes foreign relations of the United States. The U.S. can be, and has been, simultaneously an empire and a hegemonic power. They claim that the general trend in U.S. foreign relations has been away from imperial modes of control.\n\nSome critics of imperialism argue that military and cultural imperialism are interdependent. American Edward Said, one of the founders of post-colonial theory, said that,\n\nInternational relations scholar David Rothkopf disagrees and argues that cultural imperialism is the innocent result of globalization, which allows access to numerous U.S. and Western ideas and products that many non-U.S. and non-Western consumers across the world voluntarily choose to consume. Matthew Fraser has a similar analysis, but argues further that the global cultural influence of the U.S. is a good thing.\n\nNationalism is the main process through which the government is able to shape public opinion. Propaganda in the media is strategically placed in order to promote a common attitude among the people. Louis A. Perez Jr. provides an example of propaganda used during the war of 1898, \"We are coming, Cuba, coming; we are bound to set you free! We are coming from the mountains, from the plains and inland sea! We are coming with the wrath of God to make the Spaniards flee! We are coming, Cuba, coming; coming now!\"\n\nAmerican progressives have been accused of engaging in cultural imperialism. In contrast, many other countries with American brands have incorporated themselves into their own local culture. An example of this would be the self-styled \"Maccas\", an Australian derivation of \"McDonald's\" with a tinge of Australian culture.\n\nChalmers Johnson argued in 2004 that America's version of the colony is the military base. Chip Pitts argued similarly in 2006 that enduring U.S. bases in Iraq suggested a vision of \"Iraq as a colony\".\n\nWhile territories such as Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa and Puerto Rico remain under U.S. control, the U.S. allowed many of its overseas territories or occupations to gain independence after World War II. Examples include the Philippines (1946), the Panama canal zone (1979), Palau (1981), the Federated States of Micronesia (1986) and the Marshall Islands (1986). Most of them still have U.S. bases within their territories. In the case of Okinawa, which came under U.S. administration after the Battle of Okinawa during the Second World War, this happened despite local popular opinion. In 2003, a Department of Defense distribution found the United States had bases in over 36 countries worldwide.\n\nBy 1970, the United States had more than 1,000,000 soldiers in 30 countries, was a member of four regional defense alliances and an active participant in a fifth, had mutual defense treaties with 42 nations, was a member of 53 international organizations, and was furnishing military or economic aid to nearly 100 nations across the face of the globe. In 2015 the Department of Defense reported the number of bases that had any military or civilians stationed or employed was 587. This includes land only (where no facilities are present), facility or facilities only (where there the underlying land is neither owned nor controlled by the government), and land with facilities (where both are present). Also in 2015, David Vine's book Base Nation, found 800 US military bases located outside of the US, including 174 bases in Germany, 113 in Japan, and 83 in South Korea, the total costs, an estimated $100 billion a year.\n\nOne of the earliest historians of American Empire, William Appleman Williams, wrote, \"The routine lust for land, markets or security became justifications for noble rhetoric about prosperity, liberty and security.\"\n\nMax Boot defends U.S. imperialism by claiming: \"U.S. imperialism has been the greatest force for good in the world during the past century. It has defeated communism and Nazism and has intervened against the Taliban and Serbian ethnic cleansing.\" Boot used \"imperialism\" to describe United States policy, not only in the early 20th century but \"since at least 1803\". This embrace of empire is made by other neoconservatives, including British historian Paul Johnson, and writers Dinesh D'Souza and Mark Steyn. It is also made by some liberal hawks, such as political scientist Zbigniew Brzezinski and Michael Ignatieff.\n\nBritish historian Niall Ferguson argues that the United States is an empire and believes that this is a good thing: \"What is not allowed is to say that the United States is an empire and that this might not be wholly bad.\" Ferguson has drawn parallels between the British Empire and the imperial role of the United States in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, though he describes the United States' political and social structures as more like those of the Roman Empire than of the British. Ferguson argues that all of these empires have had both positive and negative aspects, but that the positive aspects of the U.S. empire will, if it learns from history and its mistakes, greatly outweigh its negative aspects.\n\nAnother point of view implies that United States expansion overseas has indeed been imperialistic, but that this imperialism is only a temporary phenomenon; a corruption of American ideals or the relic of a past historical era. Historian Samuel Flagg Bemis argues that Spanish–American War expansionism was a short-lived imperialistic impulse and \"a great aberration in American history\", a very different form of territorial growth than that of earlier American history. Historian Walter LaFeber sees the Spanish–American War expansionism not as an aberration, but as a culmination of United States expansion westward.\n\nHistorian Victor Davis Hanson argues that the U.S. does not pursue world domination, but maintains worldwide influence by a system of mutually beneficial exchanges. On the other hand, a Filipino revolutionary General Emilio Aguinaldo felt as though the American involvement in the Philippines was destructive, \"the Filipinos fighting for Liberty, the American people fighting them to give them liberty. The two peoples are fighting on parallel lines for the same object.\" American influence worldwide and the effects it has on other nations have multiple interpretations according to whose perspective is being taken into account.\n\nLiberal internationalists argue that even though the present world order is dominated by the United States, the form taken by that dominance is not imperial. International relations scholar John Ikenberry argues that international institutions have taken the place of empire.\n\nInternational relations scholar Joseph Nye argues that U.S. power is more and more based on \"soft power\", which comes from cultural hegemony rather than raw military or economic force. This includes such factors as the widespread desire to emigrate to the United States, the prestige and corresponding high proportion of foreign students at U.S. universities, and the spread of U.S. styles of popular music and cinema. Mass immigration into America may justify this theory, but it is hard to know for sure whether the United States would still maintain its prestige without its military and economic superiority.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42489977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42489977", "title": "Arakan National Party", "text": "Arakan National Party\n\nThe Arakan National Party (; abbreviated ANP), is a political party in Myanmar (Burma), representing the interests of the Rakhine people in Rakhine State and Yangon Region. The party was founded on 13 January 2014 and registered with the election commission on 6 March 2014. The chairman of the ANP is Dr. Aye Maung.\n\nThe Rakhine Nationalities Development Party (RNDP), led by Dr. Aye Maung, and the Arakan League for Democracy (ALD), led by Aye Thar Aung, signed an agreement on 17 June 2013 to merge into a single party under the name \"Arakan National Party\" after more than eight months of negotiations.\n\nIn the 2015 general election, the party contested 63 seats in Rakhine State, Chin State, Ayeyarwady Region, and Yangon Region. The party won 10 seats in the Amyotha Hluttaw, 12 in the Pyithu Hluttaw, 22 in the Rakhine State Hluttaw, and one party member became an Ethnic Affairs Minister.\n\nFormer leaders of the ALD announced on 8 January 2017 that they were splitting from the ANP and were re-registering with the Union Election Commission for the 2020 elections, citing internal issues and RNDP dominance in the ANP as the reasons for the split.\n\nOn 27 November 2017, Dr. Aye Maung tendered his resignation from the party as chairman and member, citing persistent conflicts within the top ranks of the party.\n"}
{"id": "4092101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4092101", "title": "Christian CND", "text": "Christian CND\n\nChristian CND (CCND) is a 'Specialist Section' of CND, the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament and has existed since 1960. CCND is made up of individual Christians of various denominations who oppose nuclear weapons and who campaign for peace. The organisation has an elected executive of ten members, has an office in London and publishes a journal called 'Ploughshare' four times a year. Its symbol combines the original CND sign (commonly referred to as the 'Peace' sign) with images of a cross and a dove holding an olive branch.\n\nNOTE. College CND also used the abbreviation CCND.\n\nFounded in 1960, chaired by Sidney Hinkes from 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "41286193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41286193", "title": "Civil Democratic Current", "text": "Civil Democratic Current\n\nThe Civil Democratic Current (also called the Democratic Alliance for Civil Forces and the Democratic Civilian Alliance) is an alliance of political parties that would have run for the 2015 Egyptian parliamentary election, but it withdrew. The alliance is working with other parties, including the New Wafd Party, to attempt to amend the current parliamentary election law, which limits the number of party list seats to 120 of 567 total seats.\n\nThe alliance intends to form a \"united national front\" with more parties in preparation for the 2018 presidential election.\n\nThe alliance seems to be replaced by the similarly named Civil Democratic Movement (2017). The active alliance includes various parties that were also involved in this alliance; namely, the Constitution Party, the Dignity Party, Socialist Popular Alliance Party, Egyptian Social Democratic Party and the Bread and Freedom Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "46704975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46704975", "title": "Conflict of interest in the healthcare industry", "text": "Conflict of interest in the healthcare industry\n\nConflict of interest in the health care industry occurs when the primary goal of protecting and increasing the health of patients comes into conflict with any other secondary goal, especially personal gain to healthcare professionals, and increasing revenue to a healthcare organization from selling health care products and services. The public and private sectors of the medical-industrial complex have various conflicts of interest which are specific to these entities.\n\nThere is a lack of empirical evidence to describe the impact of conflict of interest in the health care industry.\n\nBusiness interests influence the direction of cancer research and the adoption of new practices in therapy.\n\nUniversity projects which receive industry funding are more likely to produce research outcomes which favor their funders.\n\nA 2017 systematic review by the Cochrane Collaboration found that pharmaceutical and medical device industry sponsored studies are more often favorable to the sponsor's product compared with studies with other sources of sponsorship.\n\nThe trend toward treating clinical research as a business has coincided with a range of problems which are likely the result of business connections.\n\nFunders seek and court scientists to author papers and lend their person reputations to add credibility to research findings.\n\nThe Physician Payments Sunshine Act of 2010 requires that financial relationships of physicians and teaching hospitals with manufacturers be reported and made publicly available via the Open Payments Program website.\n\nUsing this Open Payments database, it was found that about 64% of US-based physician-editors of highly-cited medical journals received industry-associated payments (i.e., payments from medical drug and device companies) during a period spanning August 1, 2013 to December 31, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "46269527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46269527", "title": "Cumann na Saoirse", "text": "Cumann na Saoirse\n\nCumann na Saoirse (\"The League for Freedom\") was an Irish republican women's organisation formed in Dublin in 1922, following a split in Cumann na mBan. \n\nOn 7 January 1922 the Anglo-Irish Treaty was approved by the Second Dáil by a close vote of 64–57. On 5 February a convention was held to discuss this, and 419 Cumann na mBan members voted against as opposed to 63 in favour. The Pro-Treaty women, headed by Jenny Wyse Power set up Cumann na Saoirse to replace Cumann na mBan in March 1922. Some of those who supported the Treaty changed the name of their branches to Cumann na Saoirse, while others retained their name but gave allegiance to the Free State Government.\n\n"}
{"id": "27922821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27922821", "title": "Democratic Left (Greece)", "text": "Democratic Left (Greece)\n\nDemocratic Left (, , DIMAR) is a social-democratic political party in Greece. DIMAR was a minority party supporting the Samaras cabinet from 21 June 2012 to 21 June 2013.\n\nDIMAR was founded on 27 June 2010 when the Renewal Wing platform of the left-wing party Synaspismós, a component of the Coalition of the Radical Left (Syriza)—among them MPs Fotis Kouvelis, Thanasis Leventis, Nikos Tsoukalis, and Grigoris Psarianos—exited Synaspismós at its 6th congress. They were joined by more than 550 individuals. At a subsequent national conference of the Renewal Wing, 170 members were elected to national policy committee of the new party.\n\nThe first conference of DIMAR was held on 31 March – 3 April 2011. It elected Fotis Kouvelis as the party's leader with 97.31% of the vote.\n\nOn 22 March 2012, six MPs from the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) joined the party, which raised the number of Democratic Left MPs to 10, the party was eligible to form a parliamentary group. The minor party Free Citizens also joined the Democratic Left on 22 March 2012.\n\nIn the May 2012 legislative election DIMAR received 386,116 votes (6.1%) and elected 19 MPs in the Greek Parliament, making it the seventh biggest party in the Hellenic Parliament. In the June 2012 legislative election, the DIMAR won 6.3% of the vote and 17 seats, making it the sixth largest party by seat count. It joined the Samaras cabinet with New Democracy (ND) and PASOK.\n\nIn November 2012, the party decided to vote abstained/present to the labor market reform and \"Midterm fiscal plan 2013-16\" as part of the sixth austerity package negotiated with the Troika, while they cast a supportive vote for the \"Fiscal budget 2013\". As the party did not vote directly against the crucial reforms, it was afterwords possible to continue being a part of the three-party coalition government with New Democracy and PASOK. Following this political line however came at the price. Three of its MPs voted against the party line on the reforms, and consequently were asked to leave the party, thus reducing the party's number of MPs from 17 to 14. Democratic Left’s political charter has no paragraphs enabling for the exclusion of MPs from the party, but the three MPs being asked to leave were expected to follow the request, as they fundamentally disagreed with the party's political line.\n\nIn April 2013, two former Democratic Left MPs, Odysseas Voudouris and Paris Moutsinas, were expelled from DIMAR's parliamentary group after having voted against the coalition government's seventh austerity package. They announced to form a new party, stating in a letter to party leader Fotis Kouvelis that their former party had \"mutated\" into a centrist one.\n\nOn 21 June 2013, DIMAR left the governing coalition with ND and PASOK in protest of the unilateral closure of the state broadcasting corporation, Hellenic Broadcasting Corporation (ERT) which was opposed by both DIMAR and PASOK. The withdrawal left Samaras with a tiny majority with 153 New Democracy/PASOK MPs.\n\nIn the 2014 European elections on 25 May 2014, DIMAR's vote collapsed, with the party receiving less than one fifth of the popular support it had in the national elections two years before (1.20%, down from 6.25%) and failing to win any seats in the European Parliament.\n\nOn 4 January 2015 DIMAR announced it would contest the upcoming election in cooperation with the Greens. In the 25 January 2015 legislative election, the joint electoral list received a mere 0.49% of the vote, thus failing to return any DIMAR MPs to the Hellenic Parliament.\n\nOn 30 August 2015, ahead of the forthcoming September snap election, PASOK announced an electoral pact with DIMAR, named the Democratic Coalition.\n\nIn the September 2015 legislative election on 20 September 2015, the PASOK–DIMAR list received 6.3% of the vote, and returned 17 seats.\n"}
{"id": "1083030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1083030", "title": "Eduardo Mondlane", "text": "Eduardo Mondlane\n\nEduardo Chivambo Mondlane (20 June 1920 – 3 February 1969) served as the founding President of the Mozambican Liberation Front (FRELIMO) from 1962, the year that FRELIMO was founded in Tanzania, until his assassination in 1969. He was an anthropologist by profession but worked as a history and sociology professor at Syracuse University.\n\nThe fourth of 16 sons of a tribal chief of the Bantu-speaking Tsonga, Mondlane was born in \"N'wajahani\", district of Mandlakazi in the province of Gaza,\" in Portuguese East Africa (Mozambique) in 1920. He worked as a shepherd until the age of 12. He attended several different primary schools before enrolling in a Swiss–Presbyterian school near Manjacaze. However, he ended his secondary education in the same organisation's church school at Lemana College at Village above Elim Hospital in the Transvaal, South Africa. He also worked for a while as a teacher at nearby Shirley Primary School at Shirley Village near the township of Waterval, above Elim Hospital. He then spent one year at the Jan H. Hofmeyr School of Social Work before enrolling in Witwatersrand University in Johannesburg but was expelled from South Africa after only a year, in 1949, following the rise of the Apartheid government. In June 1950 Mondlane entered the University of Lisbon, at Lisbon, the capital of Portugal. By Mondlane's request he was transferred to the United States, where he entered Oberlin College in Ohio at the age of 31, under a Phelps Stokes scholarship. Mondlane enrolled at Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio, in 1951, starting as a junior, and in 1953 he obtained a degree in anthropology and sociology. He continued his studies at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois. Mondlane earned an MA and a PhD from Northwestern University and married Janet Rae Johnson, a white American woman from Indiana who then lived in the Chicago suburbs.\n\nMondlane began working in 1957 as research officer in the Trusteeship Department of the United Nations which enabled him to travel to Africa. He resigned from his post that year to be allowed to participate in political activism which his UN post did not allow. He became an Assistant Professor of Anthropology at Syracuse University and helped develop the East African Studies Program there. In 1963, he resigned from his post at Syracuse to move to Tanzania to fully engage in the liberation struggle.\n\nAfter graduation, Eduardo Mondlane became a United Nations official. One of António de Oliveira Salazar's most important advisers, Adriano Moreira, a political science professor who had been appointed to the post of Portugal's Minister of the Overseas (\"Ministro do Ultramar\"), met Mondlane at the United Nations when both were working there and, recognising his qualities, tried to bring him to the Portuguese side by offering to him a post in Portuguese Mozambique's administration. However, Mondlane showed little interest in the offer and later joined the Mozambican pro-independence movements in Tanzania, who lacked a credible leader. In 1962 Mondlane was elected president of the newly formed Mozambican Liberation Front (\"Frente de Libertação de Moçambique\" or FRELIMO), which was composed of elements from smaller independentist groups. In 1963 he settled FRELIMO headquarters outside of Mozambique in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania. Supported both by several Western countries and the USSR, as well as by many African states, FRELIMO began a guerrilla war in 1964 to obtain Mozambique's independence from Portugal. In FRELIMO's early years, its leadership was divided: the faction led by Mondlane wanted not merely to fight for independence but also for a change to a socialist society; dos Santos, Machel and Chissano and a majority of the Party's Central Committee shared this view. Their opponents, prominent among whom were Nkavandame and Simango, wanted independence, but not a fundamental change in social relations: essentially the substitution of a black elite for the white elite. The socialist position was approved by the Second Party Congress, held in July 1968; Mondlane was re-elected party President, and a strategy of protracted war based on support among the peasantry (as opposed to a quick \"coup\" attempt) was adopted.\n\nIn 1969, a bomb was planted in a book sent to him at the FRELIMO Headquarters in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. It exploded when he opened the package in the house of an American friend, Betty King, killing him. The assassination remains unsolved.\n\nTheories have been proposed that implicate \"Mondlane’s rivals inside FRELIMO, Tanzanian politicians, international actors and the Portuguese secret service, especially Aginter Press, a clandestine Portuguese anti-Communist organization.\" Former PIDE Agent Oscar Cardoso claims that PIDE Agente Casimiro Monteiro planted the bomb that killed Eduardo Mondlane.\n\nMondlane's death was mourned at a funeral in 1969 which was officiated by his Oberlin classmate and friend the Reverend Edward Hawley, who said during the ceremonies that Mondlane \"...laid down his life for the truth that man was made for dignity and self-determination.\"\n\nBy the early 1970s FRELIMO's 7,000-strong guerrilla force had wrested control of some countryside areas of the central and northern parts of Mozambique from the Portuguese authorities. The independentist guerrilla was engaging a Portuguese force of approximately 60,000 military, which was almost all concentrated in the area of Cahora Bassa where the Portuguese administration were finalising the construction of a major hydroelectric dam, one of many facilities and improvements that the Portuguese provincial administration's development commission were rapidly developing since the 1960s. The 1974 overthrow of the Portuguese ruling regime after a leftist military coup in Lisbon, brought a dramatic change of direction in Portugal's policy regarding its overseas provinces, and on 25 June 1975, Portugal handed over power to FRELIMO and Mozambique became an independent nation.\n\nIn 1975, the \"Universidade de Lourenço Marques\" founded by the Portuguese and given the name of the capital of Portugal's Overseas Province of Mozambique, Lourenço Marques (now Maputo, Mozambique), was renamed \"Universidade Eduardo Mondlane\", or Eduardo Mondlane University. It is still located in the capital city of independent Mozambique.\n\nSyracuse University's Africa Initiative hosts the Eduardo Mondlane Brown Bag Lecture Series that invites speakers worldwide to participate in Africana studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3908028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3908028", "title": "Europeans United for Democracy", "text": "Europeans United for Democracy\n\nEuropeans United for Democracy - Alliance for a Europe of Democracies, formerly known as \"EUDemocrats\", is a Eurosceptic and self-described eurorealist alliance of parties and movements from 15 European countries. It operates as a transnational party at a European level (European political party), according to Regulation (EC) No 2004/2003. It incorporates members from both the centre-left and the centre-right of the political spectrum.\n\nThe party was set up under Danish law on 7 November 2005 and founded as a European Party in Brussels on 8 November 2005. Its first congress was held on 24 February 2006. Former Danish MEPs Jens-Peter Bonde and Hanne Dahl inspired the EUD’s creation and first years. In January 2009, Swedish economist and former MEP Sören Wibe succeeded Bonde as President of the EUD. Following Wibe's sudden death in December 2010, former Irish Green MEP Patricia McKenna was named president of the EUD and Lave Knud Broch from People's Movement against the EU as vice president.\n\nThe EUD’s platform is not concerned with matters of right or left wing ideology because it believes that such issues are best considered by national and regional parliaments under their citizens’ democratic control. It is committed to enhancing transparency, subsidiarity, diversity and most importantly budget control in the European Union.\n\nIn 2009, four of its affiliated MEPs were members of the Independence and Democracy group in the European Parliament. Also, two affiliated MEPs - Roger Helmer and Daniel Hannan, both British Conservatives - sat as independents. Hannan left EUD in October 2009 to join the newly formed Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists, while Helmer defected from the British Conservatives to British party UKIP. From 2010 to 2014 EUD had one member in the European Parliament: Rina Ronja Kari (replaced Søren Søndergaard 5 February 2014), who sits as an associate member of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left Group. In the 2014 European Parliament elections two EUD members Rina Ronja Kari and Iveta Grigule were elected.\n\nTen members of national and regional parliaments from ten countries are also members of the EUD.(2014)\n\nThe political aim of the EUDemocrats is to reform the present structures of the European Union. According to its political platform, the EUD believes that decisions should be made at the lowest possible level (subsidiarity), thus giving an effective voice to the citizens of member states, regions and national minorities. It aims to unite those who are critical of the EU for its undemocratic development and its ever-more centralising political features.\n\nThe EUD is opposed to the centralisation of political power in EU institutions, and demands democratic scrutiny and control over EU institutional powers and actions by national and regional assemblies.\n\nIts four political core objectives are:\n\n\nThe operational aim of EUD is to act as an effective political platform and campaigning organisation which is able to influence pan-European politics towards extending democratic structures in the EU. The EUD also seeks to have candidates elected in European elections from both center-right and center-left that share its core eurorealist political ideas and thus influence politics in the European Parliament itself.\n\nIn March 2011, the EUDemocrats launched a campaign against the idea of direct-tax income for the European Union (including a tax on citizens, the banking sector, or the air traffic sector. The campaign was launched as www.noeutax.com.\n\nIn an effort to bring balance to the euro debate in the Baltics, EUDemocrats has started a Latvian web information campaign at www.parlatu.lv.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2277678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2277678", "title": "Forced marriage", "text": "Forced marriage\n\nForced marriage is a marriage in which one or more of the parties is married without his or her consent or against his or her will. A forced marriage differs from an arranged marriage, in which both parties presumably consent to the assistance of their parents or a third party such as a matchmaker in choosing a spouse. There is often a continuum of coercion used to compel a marriage, ranging from outright physical violence to subtle psychological pressure. Forced marriage is still practised in various cultures across the world, particularly in parts of South Asia and Africa. Some scholars object to use of the term \"forced marriage\" because it invokes the consensual legitimating language of marriage (such as husband/wife) for an experience that is precisely the opposite. A variety of alternative terms exist, including \"forced conjugal association\" and \"conjugal slavery\".\n\nThe United Nations views forced marriage as a form of human rights abuse, since it violates the principle of the freedom and autonomy of individuals. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that a person's right to choose a spouse and enter freely into marriage is central to his/her life and dignity, and his/her equality as a human being. The Roman Catholic Church deems forced marriage grounds for granting an annulment — for a marriage to be valid both parties must give their consent freely. The Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery also prohibits marriage without right to refuse of herself out of her parents', family's and other persons' will and requires the minimum age for marriage to prevent this.\n\nIn 1969, the Special Court for Sierra Leone's (SCSL) Appeals Chamber found the abduction and confinement of women for \"forced marriage\" in war to be a new crime against humanity (AFRC decision). The SCSL Trial Chamber in the Charles Taylor decision found that the term 'forced marriage' should be avoided and rather described the practice in war as 'conjugal slavery' (2012).\n\nIn 2013, the first United Nations Human Rights Council resolution against child, early, and forced marriages was adopted; the resolution recognizes child, early, and forced marriage as involving violations of human rights which “prevents individuals from living their lives free from all forms of violence and that has adverse consequences on the enjoyment of human rights, such as the right to education, [and] the right to the highest attainable standard of health including sexual and reproductive health\", and also states that \"the elimination of child, early and forced marriage should be considered in the discussion of the post-2015 development agenda.\"\n\nMarriages throughout history were arranged between families, especially before the 18th century. The practices varied by culture, but usually involved the legal transfer of dependency of the woman from her father to the groom. \nThe emancipation of women in the 19th and 20th centuries changed marriage laws dramatically, especially in regard to property and economic status. By the mid-20th century, many Western countries had enacted legislation establishing legal equality between spouses in family law. The period of 1975-1979 saw a major overhaul of family laws in countries such as Italy,\nSpain, Austria, West Germany, and Portugal. In 1978, the Council of Europe passed the \"Resolution (78) 37 on equality of spouses in civil law\". Among the last European countries to establish full gender equality in marriage were Switzerland, Greece, Spain, the Netherlands, and France in the 1980s.\n\nAn arranged marriage is not the same as a forced marriage: in the former, the spouse has the possibility to reject the offer; in the latter, they do not. The line between arranged and forced marriage is however often difficult to draw, due to the implied familial and social pressure to accept the marriage and obey one's parents in all respects.\n\nIn Europe, during the late 18th century and early 19th century, the literary and intellectual movement of romanticism presented new and progressive ideas about love marriage, which started to gain acceptance in society. In the 19th century, marriage practices varied across Europe, but in general, arranged marriages were more common among the upper class. Arranged marriages were the norm in Russia before early 20th century, most of which were endogamous. Child marriages were common historically, but began to be questioned in the 19th and 20th century. Child marriages are often considered to be forced marriages, because children (especially young ones) are not able to make a fully informed choice whether or not to marry, and are often influenced by their families.\n\nIn Western countries, during the past decades, the nature of marriage—especially with regard to the importance of marital procreation and the ease of divorce—has changed dramatically, which has led to less social and familial pressure to get married, providing more freedom of choice in regard to choosing a spouse.\n\nHistorically, forced marriage was also used to require a captive (slave or prisoner of war) to integrate with the host community, and accept his or her fate. One example is the English blacksmith John R. Jewitt, who spent three years as a captive of the Nootka people on the Pacific Northwest Coast in 1802–1805. He was ordered to marry, because the council of chiefs thought that a wife and family would reconcile him to staying with his captors for life. Jewitt was given a choice between forced marriage for himself and capital punishment for both him and his \"father\" (a fellow captive). \"Reduced to this sad extremity, with death on the one side, and matrimony on the other, I thought proper to choose what appeared to me the least of the two evils\" (p154).\n\nForced marriage was also practiced by authoritarian governments as a way to meet population targets. The Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia systematically forced people into marriages, in order to increase the population and continue the revolution.These marriage ceremonies consisted of no fewer than three couples and could be as large as 160 couples. Generally, the village chief or a senior leader of the community would approach both parties and inform them that they were to be married and the time and place the marriage would occur. Often, the marriage ceremony would be the first time the future spouses would meet. Parents and other family members were not allowed to participate in selecting the spouse or to attend the marriage ceremony. The Khmer Rouge maintained that parental authority was unnecessary because it “w[as] to be everyone’s ‘mother and father.’”\n\nRaptio is a Latin term referring to the \"large scale abduction of women\", (kidnapping) either for marriage or enslavement (particularly sexual slavery). The practice is surmised to have been common since anthropological antiquity.\n\nIn the 21st century, forced marriages have come to attention in European countries, within the context of immigration from cultures in which they are common. The Istanbul Convention prohibits forced marriages. (see Article 37).\n\nThe 1956 Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery defines \"institutions and practices similar to slavery\" to include:\n\nc) Any institution or practice whereby:\n\nThe Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, also known as the Istanbul Convention, states:\n\nArticle 32 – Civil consequences of forced marriages\n\nParties shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to ensure that marriages concluded under force may be voidable, annulled or dissolved without undue financial or administrative burden placed on the victim.\n\nArticle 37 – Forced marriage\n\n1 Parties shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to ensure that the intentional conduct of forcing an adult or a child to enter into a marriage is criminalised.\n\n2 Parties shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to ensure that the intentional conduct of luring an adult or a child to the territory of a Party or State other than the one she or he resides in with the purpose of forcing this adult or child to enter into a marriage is criminalised.\n\nThere are numerous factors which can lead to a culture which accepts and encourages forced marriages. Reasons for performing forced marriages include: strengthening extended family links; controlling unwanted behavior and sexuality; preventing 'unsuitable' relationships; protecting and abiding by perceived cultural or religious norms; keeping the wealth in the extended family; dealing with the consequences of pregnancy out of wedlock; considering the contracting of a marriage as the duty of the parents; obtaining a guarantee against poverty; aiding immigration.\n\nEarly and forced marriages can contribute to girls being placed in a cycle of poverty and powerlessness. Most are likely to experience mistreatment such as violence, abuse and forced sexual relations. This means that women who marry younger in age are more likely to be dominated by their husbands. They also experience poor sexual and reproductive health. Young married girls are more likely to contract HIV and their health could be in jeopardy. Most people who are forced into a marriage lack education and are often illiterate. Young ones tend to drop out of school shortly before they get married.\n\nDepending by jurisdiction, a forced marriage may or may not be void or voidable. Victims may be able to seek redress through annulment or divorce. In England and Wales, the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 stipulates that a forced marriage is voidable. In some jurisdictions, people who had coerced the victim into marriage may face criminal charges.\n\nForced marriages are often related to violence, both in regard to violence perpetrated inside the marriage (domestic violence), and in regard to violence inflicted in order to force an unwilling participant to accept the marriage, or to punish a refusal (in extreme cases women and girls who do not accept the marriage are subjected to honor killings).\n\nThe traditional customs of dowry and bride price contribute to the practice of forced marriage. A dowry is the property or money that a wife (or wife's family) brings to her husband upon marriage. A bride price is an amount of money or property or wealth paid by the groom (or his family) to the parents of the bride upon marriage.\n\nMarriage by abduction, also known as bride kidnapping, is a practice in which a man abducts the woman he wishes to marry. Marriage by abduction has been practiced throughout history around the world and continues to occur in some countries today, particularly in Central Asia, the Caucasus and parts of Africa. A girl or a woman is kidnapped by the groom-to-be, who is often helped by his friends. The victim is often raped by the groom-to-be, for her to lose her virginity, so that the man is able to negotiate a bride price with the village elders to legitimize the marriage. The future bride then has no choice in most circumstances, but to accept: if the bride goes back to her family, she (and her family) will often be ostracized by the community because the community thinks she has lost her virginity, and she is now 'impure'. A different form of marital kidnapping, groom kidnapping, occurs in some areas where payment of a dowry is generally expected.\n\nA forced marriage is also often the result of a dispute between families, where the dispute is 'resolved' by giving a female from one family to the other. \"Vani\" is a cultural custom found in parts of Pakistan wherein a young girl is forcibly married as part of the punishment for a crime committed by her male relatives. Vani is a form of forced child marriage, and the result of punishment decided by a council of tribal elders named \"jirga\".\n\nWidow inheritance, also known as bride inheritance, is a cultural and social practice whereby a widow is required to marry a kinsman of her late husband, often his brother. It is prevalent in certain parts of Africa. The practice of wife inheritance has also been blamed for the spread of HIV/AIDS.\n\nIn conflict areas, women and girls are sometimes forced to marry men on either side of the conflict. This practice has taken place recently in countries such as Syria, Sierra Leone, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Historically, this was common throughout the world, with women from the communities of the war enemy being considered \"spoils of war\", who could be kidnapped, raped and forced into marriage or sexual slavery. Because women were regarded as property, it seemed reasonable to see them as the chattel of the war enemy, which could now be appropriated and used by the winner.\n\nForced marriage can occur in the situation where in an unmarried couple, one partner forces (through violence or threats) the other partner to enter the marriage.\n\nEnding a forced marriage may be extremely difficult in many parts of the world. For instance, in parts of Africa, one of the main obstacles for leaving the marriage is the bride price. Once the bride price has been paid, the girl is seen as belonging to the husband and his family. If she wants to leave, the husband may demand back the bride price that he had paid to the girl's family. The girl's family often cannot or does not want to pay it back.\n\nUK citizens escaping forced marriage abroad are forced to pay their repatriation costs or get into debt. This makes escaping a forced marriage harder.\n\nAbu Hurayrah reported that the Prophet said: \"A non-virgin woman may not be married without her command, and a virgin may not be married without her permission; and it is permission enough for her to remain silent (because of her natural shyness).\" [Al-Bukhari:6455, Muslim & Others]\nIt is reported in a hadith that A'ishah related that she once asked the Prophet : \"In the case of a young girl whose parents marry her off, should her permission be sought or not?\" He replied: \"Yes, she must give her permission.\" She then said: \"But a virgin would be shy, O Messenger of Allaah!\" He replied: \"Her silence is [considered as] her permission.\" [Al-Bukhari, Muslim, & Others]\n\nIt appears that the permission of an under-age bride is indeed necessary for her marriage to be considered valid. Despite the fact that this opinion is held only by a minority of classical scholars, the above narrations seem to clearly make the approval of the bride a condition for a valid marriage contract.\n\nThe contract of an Islamic marriage is concluded between the guardian (wali) of the bride and bridegroom, not between bridegroom and bride if she is virgin but her permission is still necessary. The guardian (wali) of the bride can only be a free Muslim.\n\nA shotgun wedding is a form of forced marriage occasioned by an unplanned pregnancy. Some religions and cultures consider it a moral imperative to marry in such a situation, based on reasoning that premarital sex or out-of-wedlock births are sinful, not sanctioned by law, or otherwise stigmatized. Giving birth outside marriage can, in some cultures, trigger extreme reactions from the family or community, including honor killings.\n\nThe term \"shotgun wedding\" is an American colloquialism, though it is also used in other parts of the world. It is based on a hyperbolic scenario in which the pregnant (or sometimes only \"deflowered\") female's father resorts to coercion (such as threatening with a shotgun) to ensure that the male partner who caused the pregnancy goes through with it, sometimes even following the man to the altar to prevent his escape. The use of violent coercion to marry was never legal in the United States, although many anecdotal stories and folk songs record instances of such intimidation in the 18th and 19th centuries. Purposes of the wedding include recourse from the male for the act of impregnation and to ensure that the child is raised by both parents as well as to ensure that the woman has material means of support. In some cases, a major objective was the restoring of social honor to the mother.\n\nShotgun weddings have become less common as the stigma associated with out-of-wedlock births has gradually faded and the number of such births has increased; the increasing availability of birth control and abortion, as well as material support to unwed mothers, such as Elterngeld, child benefits, parental leave, and free kindergartens have reduced the perceived need for such measures.\n\nForced marriage is prevalent in Madagascar. Girls are married off by their families, and often led to believe that if they refuse the marriage they will be \"cursed\". In some cases, the husband is much older than his bride, and when she becomes a widow, she is discriminated and excluded by society.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch, Malawi has \"widespread child and forced marriage\" and half of the girls marry before 18. The practice of bride price, known also as lobolo, is common in Malawi, and plays a major role in forced marriage. Wife inheritance is also practiced in Malawi. After marriage, wives have very limited rights and freedoms; and general preparation of young girls for marriage consists in describing their role as that of being subordinated to the husband.\n\nForced marriage in Mauritania takes three principal forms: forced marriage to a cousin (known as \"maslaha\"); forced marriage to a rich man for the purpose of financial gain; and forced polygamous marriage to an influential man.\n\nIn 2018 a law went into effect known as the Hakkaoui law because Bassima Hakkaoui drafted it; among other things it includes a ban on forced marriage. But it was criticized for requiring victims to file for criminal prosecution to get protection.\n\nForced marriage is common in Niger. Niger has the highest prevalence of child marriage in the world; and also the highest total fertility rate. Girls who attempt to leave forced marriages are most often rejected by their families and are often forced to enter prostitution in order to survive. Due to the food crisis, girls are being sold into marriage.\nBalkissa Chaibou is known as one of the most famous activists against forced marriage in Niger. Chaibou was 12 when she was informed by her own mother that she was to be married to her cousin, and when she was 16, she took to the courts. With little success, Chaibou was forced to a women's shelter before she was finally able to go home where she learned of her parents changed views on forced marriage, that they were now against it.\n\nIn South Africa, ukuthwala is the practice of abducting young girls and forcing them into marriage, often with the consent of their parents. The practice occurs mainly in rural parts of South Africa, in particular the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. The girls who are involved in this practice are frequently under-aged, including some as young as eight. The practice received negative publicity, with media reporting in 2009 that more than 20 Eastern Cape girls are forced to drop out of school every month because of ukuthwala.\n\nIn 2016, during a feast ending the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, the Gambian President Yahya Jammeh announced that child and forced marriages were banned.\n\n\"Compensation marriage\", known variously as vanni, swara and sang chatti, is the traditional practice of forced marriage of women and young girls in order to resolve tribal feuds in parts of Pakistan and Afghanistan. Although illegal in Pakistan, it is still widely practiced in Pakistan's Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province.\n\nForced marriage is very common in Afghanistan, and sometimes women resort to suicide to escape these marriages. A report by Human Rights Watch found that about 95% of girls and 50% of adult women imprisoned in Afghanistan were in jail on charges of the \"moral crimes\" of \"running away\" from home or zina. Obtaining a divorce without the consent of the husband is nearly impossible in Afghanistan, and women attempting a \"de facto\" separation risk being imprisoned for \"running away\". While it is not socially acceptable for women and girls to leave home without permission, \"running away\" is not defined as a criminal offense in the Afghan Penal Code. However, in 2010 and 2011, the Afghan Supreme Court issued instructions to courts to charge women with \"running away\" as a crime. This makes it nearly impossible for women to escape forced marriages. The Human Rights Watch report stated that\nForced marriage remains common for Kurdish girls in Iran and is also one of the major reasons for self-immolation in Iran. UNICEF’s 1998 report found extremely high rates of forced marriage, including at an early age, in Kordestan in Iran, although it noted that the practice appeared to be declining. Kurdish cultural norms which facilitate the practice of forced and child marriage perpetuate the fear of violence amongst Kurdish girls in Iran.\n\nAs in other parts of South Asia, girls in Nepal are often seen as an economic burden to the family, due to dowry. Parents often compel young girls to marry, because older and more educated men can demand a higher dowry. In 2009, the Nepalese government decided to offer a cash incentive (50,000 Nepali rupees - $641) to men for marrying widowed women. Because widows often lose social status in Nepalese society, this policy was meant to 'solve' their problems. However, many widows and human rights groups protested these regulations, denouncing them as humiliating and as encouraging coerced marriages.\n\nDuring the Sri Lankan Civil War, a 2004 report in the journal \"Reproductive Health Matters\" found that forced marriage in Sri Lanka was taking place in the context of the armed conflict, where parents forced teenage girls into marriage in order to ensure that they do not lose their chastity (considered an increased risk due to the conflict) before marriage, which would compromise their chances of finding a husband.\n\nIn 2011 the family ministry of Germany found that 3000 people were in forced marriages, nearly all from migrant families and most (83.4%) from Muslim families by querying help bureaus. These figures exceeded the estimates of help organisation Terre des Femmes, which up until then had estimated that about one thousand migrant women sought help annually. More than half of the women had experienced physical abuse and 27% were threatened with weapons or received death threats. Of the victims, 30% were 17 years old or younger. 31.8% were from Germany, 26.4% from Asia, 22.2% from Turkey and 5,6% from Africa. In 2016 the German ministry of the interior found that 1475 children were in forced marriages. Of those 1474, 1100 were girls, 664 were from Syria, 157 were afghans and 100 were Iraqis.\n\nForced marriages can be made because of family pride, the wishes of the parents, or social obligation. For example, according to Ruqaiyyah Waris Maqsood, many forced marriages in Britain within the British Pakistani community are aimed at providing British citizenship to a member of the family currently in Pakistan to whom the instigator of the forced marriage feels a sense of duty. In response to the problem of forced marriages among immigrants in the UK, the Forced Marriage (Civil Protection) Act 2007 (applicable in England and Wales, and in Northern Ireland) was passed, which enables the victims of forced marriage to apply for court orders for their protection. Similar legislation was passed in Scotland: the Forced Marriage etc. (Protection and Jurisdiction) (Scotland) Act 2011 gives courts the power to issue protection orders.\n\nIn 2008, it was estimated that about 3000 forced marriages took place each year.\n\nIn June 2012 the British Government, under Prime Minister David Cameron, declared that forced marriage would become a criminal offence in the United Kingdom. In November 2013 it was reported that a case was brought before the High Court in Birmingham by local authority officials, involving a then 14-year-old girl who was taken to Pakistan, forced to marry a man ten years her senior and two weeks later forced to consummate the marriage with threats, resulting in pregnancy; the court case ended with Mr Justice Holman saying he was powerless to make a \"declaration of non-recognition\" of the forced marriage, since he was prevented by law from granting a declaration that her marriage was \"at its inception, void\". Mr Justice Holman said that the girl, now 17, would have to initiate proceedings herself to have the marriage nullified. British courts can also issue civil orders to prevent forced marriage, and since 2014 refusing to obey such an order is grounds for a prison sentence of up to five years.\n\nThe Anti-Social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014 makes forcing someone to marry (including abroad) a criminal offence. The law came into effect in June 2014 in England and Wales and in October 2014 in Scotland. In Northern Ireland, the Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Criminal Justice and Support for Victims) Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 criminalises forced marriage (section 16 - Offence of forced marriage).\n\nIn July 2014, the United Kingdom hosted its first global Girl Summit; the goal of the Summit was to increase efforts to end child marriage, early, and forced marriage and female genital mutilation within a generation.\n\nThe first conviction for forced marriage in the United Kingdom occurred in June 2015, with the convicted being a man from Cardiff, who was subsequently sentenced to 16 years in prison.\n\nOf the cases recorded by the government's Force Marriage Unit, run jointly between the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and the Home Office, the majority involved South Asia communities, with 37% linked to Pakistan, 11% linked to Bangladesh and 7% linked to India. About 30% involved victimes below the age of 18.\n\nSchools in Skåne in the southern part of report that they discover that about 25 youth are forced to marry annually due them being part of a shame society. An investigation by government organisation \"Ungdomsstyrelsen\" reported that 70 000 youth perceived they were unfree in their choice of spouse.\n\nIn July 2016 an Afghani man in Sweden was sentenced to 4 years in prison for forcing his daughter to marry someone in Afghanistan and sexually molesting her Swedish boyfriend in the first Swedish sentence.\n\nAlthough forced marriage in Europe is most often associated with the immigrant population, it is also present among some local populations, especially among the Roma communities in Eastern Europe.\n\nThe UK \"Forced marriage consultation\", published in 2011, found forcing someone to marry to be a distinct criminal offence in Austria, Belgium, Turkey, Denmark, Norway and Germany. In 2014 it became a distinct criminal offence in England and Wales.\n\nThe Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence defines and criminalizes forced marriage, as well as other forms of violence against women. The Convention came into force on 1 August 2014.\n\nIn November 2014 UCL held an event, Forced Marriage: The Real Disgrace, where the award-winning documentary \"Honor Diaries\" was shown, and a panel including Jasvinder Sanghera CBE (Founder of Karma Nirvana), Seema Malhotra MP (Labour Shadow Minister for Women), and Dr Reefat Drabu (former Assistant General Secretary of the Muslim Council of Britain) discussed the concept of \"izzat\" (honour), recent changes in UK law, barriers to tackling forced marriage, and reasons to be hopeful of positive change.\n\nForced marriage may be practised among some immigrant communities in Canada. Until recently, forced marriage has not received very much attention in Canada. That lack of attention has protected the practice from legal intervention. In 2015, Parliament enacted 2 new criminal offences to address the issue. Forcing a person to marry against their will is now a criminal offence under the Criminal Code, as is assisting or aiding a child marriage, where one of the participants is under age 16. There has also been the long-standing offence of solemnizing an illegal marriage, which was also modified by the 2015 legislation.\n\nIn addition to these criminal offences, the \"Civil Marriage Act\" stipulates: \"Marriage requires the free and enlightened consent of two persons to be the spouse of each other,\" as well as setting 16 as the minimum age for marriage.\n\nEstimates are that hundreds of Pakistani girls in New York have been flown out of the New York City area to Pakistan to undergo forced marriages; those who resist are threatened and coerced. The AHA Foundation has commissioned a study by the John Jay College of Criminal Justice to research the incidence of forced marriage in New York City. The results of the study were equivocal. However, AHA has successfully referred numerous individuals seeking help in fleeing or avoiding a forced marriage to qualified service providers and law enforcement. According to the National Center for Victims of Crime Conference, there are \"limited laws/policies directly addressing forced marriage\", although more general non-specific laws may be used. The organization Unchained at Last, the only organization of its kind in the United States, assists women in forced or arranged marriages with free legal services and other resources. It was founded by Fraidy Reiss.\n\nThe Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (FLDS) has been suspected of trafficking underage women across state lines, as well as across the US–Canada and US–Mexico borders, for the purpose of sometimes involuntary plural marriage and sexual abuse. The FLDS is suspected by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police of having trafficked more than 30 under-age girls from Canada to the United States between the late 1990s and 2006 to be entered into polygamous marriages. RCMP spokesman Dan Moskaluk said of the FLDS's activities: \"In essence, it's human trafficking in connection with illicit sexual activity.\" According to the \"Vancouver Sun,\" it's unclear whether or not Canada's anti-human trafficking statute can be effectively applied against the FLDS's pre-2005 activities, because the statute may not be able to be applied retroactively. An earlier three-year-long investigation by local authorities in British Columbia into allegations of sexual abuse, human trafficking, and forced marriages by the FLDS resulted in no charges, but did result in legislative change.\n\nChild Marriage (2008-2014):\n\nSummary:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "63855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63855", "title": "Generalitat", "text": "Generalitat\n\nGeneralitat (, literally in English 'Generality') is the name of the systems of government of two of the present Spanish autonomous communities: Catalonia and the Valencian Community. The term is also used for the government of the semi-autonomous \"comarca\" of Val d'Aran, the \"Generalitat a l'Aran\".\n\n\"Generalitat\" refers to all three branches of government, not simply the executive. For example, the Catalan executive is, officially, the \"Government of the Generality of Catalonia\" (\"Govern de la Generalitat de Catalunya\": cf. Government of the Kingdom of Spain, \"Gobierno del Reino de España\"), while those of the community of the Valencian Country and the Val d'Aran are known as the \"Council of the Valencian Generality\" (\"Consell de la Generalitat Valenciana\") and the \"Síndic\" respectively.\n\nThe name \"Generalitat\" dates back to the 13th century, to the medieval courts of the ancient Principality of Catalonia and the Kingdom of Valencia respectively. The term originally referred to a delegation of members of the \"Corts\", who oversaw the implementation of the decisions of the \"Corts\" between sessions, and is derived from the Catalan \"Diputació del General (de Catalunya)\". The Catalan and Valencian \"Generalitats\" were both abolished by the Nueva Planta decrees, signed by Philip V of Spain at the start of the eighteenth century, and only reinstated after the death of Franco in 1975, although in Catalonia it also had a brief existence during the Second Spanish Republic. The \"Generalitat a l'Aran\" was legally created by the 2006 modification of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, although the Val d'Aran had also enjoyed considerable autonomy within Catalonia under the 1979 Statute of Autonomy.\n\n"}
{"id": "36430873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36430873", "title": "Global food security index", "text": "Global food security index\n\nThe Global Food Security Index consists of a set of indices from 113 countries. It measures food security across most of the countries of the world. It was first published in 2012, and is managed and updated annually by \"The Economist\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s intelligence unit.\n\nThe following parameters are considered for giving ranking to the countries.\n"}
{"id": "3613447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3613447", "title": "Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses", "text": "Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses\n\nThe Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses is the ruling council of Jehovah's Witnesses based in the group's Warwick, New York headquarters. The body formulates doctrines, oversees the production of written material for publications and conventions, and administers the group's worldwide operations. Official publications refer to members of the Governing Body as followers of Christ rather than religious leaders.\n\nIts size has varied, from seven (2014–2018) to eighteen (1974–1980) members. New members of the Governing Body are selected by existing members.\n\nSince its incorporation in 1884, the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania has been directed by a president and board of directors. Until January 1976, the president exercised complete control of doctrines, publications and activities of the Watch Tower Society and the religious denominations with which it was connected—the Bible Students and Jehovah's Witnesses. When the Society's second president, J. F. Rutherford, encountered opposition from directors in 1917, he dismissed them. In 1925 he overruled the Watch Tower Society's editorial committee when it opposed publication of an article about disputed doctrines regarding the year 1914. In 1931, the editorial committee was dissolved.\n\nIn 1943 \"The Watchtower\" described the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society as the \"legal governing body\" of anointed Jehovah's Witnesses. A year later, in an article opposing the democratic election of congregation elders, the magazine said the appointment of such ones was the duty of \"a visible governing body under Jehovah God and his Christ.\" For several years, the role and specific identity of the governing body remained otherwise undefined. A 1955 organizational handbook stated that \"the visible governing body has been closely identified with the board of directors of this corporation.\" Referring to events related to their 1957 convention, a 1959 publication said \"the spiritual governing body of Jehovah’s witnesses watched the developments [then] the president of the Watch Tower Bible & Tract Society [acted].\" The 1970 \"Yearbook of Jehovah's Witnesses\" noted that the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania was the organization used to plan the activity of Jehovah's Witnesses and provide them with \"spiritual food\", then declared: \"So really the governing body of Jehovah's Witnesses is the board of directors of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania.\"\nOn October 1, 1971, Watch Tower Society vice-president Frederick Franz addressed the annual meeting of the Pennsylvania corporation in Buckingham, Pennsylvania, stating that the legal corporation of the Watch Tower Society was an \"agency\" or \"temporary instrument\" used by the Governing Body on behalf of the \"faithful and discreet slave\". Three weeks later, on October 20, four additional men joined the seven members of the Society's board of directors on what became known as a separate, expanded Governing Body. The board of directors had until then met only sporadically, usually to discuss the purchase of property or new equipment, leaving decisions about Watch Tower Society literature to the president and vice-president, Nathan Knorr and Fred Franz. \"The Watchtower\" of December 15, 1971 was the first to unambiguously capitalize the term \"Governing Body of Jehovah's witnesses\" as the defined group leading the denomination, with a series of articles explaining its role and its relationship with the Watch Tower Society.\n\nThe focus on the new concept of \"theocratic\" leadership was accompanied by statements that the structure was not actually new: \"The Watch Tower\" declared that \"a governing body made its appearance\" some time after the formation of Zion's Watch Tower Society in 1884, though it had not been referred to as such at the time. The article stated that Watch Tower Society president Charles Taze Russell had been a member of the governing body. The \"1972 Yearbook of Jehovah's Witnesses\" stated that following Rutherford's death in 1942 \"one of the first things that the governing body decided upon was the inauguration of the Theocratic Ministry School\" and added that the \"governing body\" had published millions of books and Bibles in the previous thirty years. Former member of the Governing Body, Raymond Franz, stated that the actions of presidents Russell, Rutherford and Knorr in overriding and failing to consult with directors proved the Bible Students and Jehovah's Witnesses had been under a monarchical rule until 1976, leaving no decisions to any \"governing body\".\n\nIn 1972, a \"Question From Readers\" article in \"The Watchtower\" further reinforced the concept of the \"Governing Body\"; the magazine said the term referred to an agency that administers policy and provides organizational direction, guidance and regulation and was therefore \"appropriate, fitting and Scriptural.\" Organizational changes at the highest levels of the Watch Tower Society in 1976 significantly increased the powers and authority of the Governing Body. The body has never had a legal corporate existence and operates through the Watch Tower Society and its board of directors.\n\nAfter its formal establishment in 1971, the Governing Body met regularly but, according to Raymond Franz, only briefly; Franz claims meetings were sometimes as short as seven minutes, to make decisions about branch appointments and conduct that should be considered disfellowshipping offenses. Franz claims that in 1971 and again in 1975, the Governing Body debated the extent of the authority it should be given. The Governing Body voted in December 1975 to establish six operating committees to oversee the various administrative requirements of the organization's worldwide activities that formerly had been under the direction of the president; furthermore, each branch overseer was to be replaced by a branch committee of at least three members. The change, which took effect on January 1, 1976, was described in the Watch Tower Society's 1993 history book, \"Jehovah's Witnesses—Proclaimers of God's Kingdom\", as \"one of the most significant organizational readjustments in the modern-day history of Jehovah's Witnesses.\"\n\nIn 1980, dissent arose among members of the Governing Body regarding the significance of 1914 in Jehovah's Witnesses' doctrines. According to former Witnesses James Penton and Heather and Gary Botting, internal dissatisfaction with official doctrines continued to grow, leading to a series of secret investigations and judicial hearings. Consequently, dissenting members were expelled from the Brooklyn headquarters staff in the same year. Raymond Franz claimed he was forced to resign from the Governing Body, and he was later disfellowshipped from the group.\n\nThe Watch Tower Society responded to the dissent with a more severe attitude regarding the treatment of expelled Witnesses. In his 1997 study of the denomination, Penton concluded that since Raymond Franz's expulsion in 1980, the Governing Body displayed an increased level of conservatism, sturdy resistance to changes of policy and doctrines, and an increased tendency to isolate dissidents within the organization by means of disfellowshipping.\n\nThe April 15, 1992 issue of \"The Watchtower\" carried an article entitled \"Jehovah’s Provision, the “Given Ones”\" which drew a parallel between ancient non-Israelites who had been assigned temple duties (the \"Nethinim\" and \"sons of the servants of Solomon\") and Witness elders in positions of responsibility immediately under the oversight of the Governing Body who did not profess to be \"anointed\".\n\nBoth that issue of \"The Watchtower\" and the \"1993 Yearbook of Jehovah's Witnesses\" carried the same announcement:\n\nIn view of the tremendous increase worldwide, it seems appropriate at this time to provide the Governing Body with some additional assistance. Therefore it has been decided to invite several helpers, mainly from among the great crowd, to share in the meetings of each of the Governing Body Committees, that is, the Personnel, Publishing, Service, Teaching, and Writing Committees. Thus, the number attending the meetings of each of these committees will be increased to seven or eight. Under the direction of the Governing Body committee members, these assistants will take part in discussions and will carry out various assignments given them by the committee. This new arrangement goes into effect May 1, 1992. For many years now, the number of the remnant of anointed Witnesses has been decreasing, while the number of the great crowd has increased beyond our grandest expectations.\nEach of the current Governing Body members served as a committee \"helper\" before being appointed to the Governing Body itself. The appointment of helpers to the Governing Body committees was described in 2006 as \"still another refinement.\"\n\nUntil 2000, the directors and officers of the Watch Tower Society were members of the Governing Body. Since then, members of the ecclesiastical Governing Body have not served as directors of any of the various corporations used by Jehovah's Witnesses, and the Governing Body has delegated such administrative responsibilities to other members of the group.\n\nThe Governing Body functions by means of its six committees, which carry out various administrative functions. Each committee is assisted by \"helpers,\" who do not necessarily profess to be of the \"anointed\". Governing Body meetings are held weekly in closed session. According to Raymond Franz, decisions of the body were required to be unanimous until 1975, after which a two-thirds majority of the full body was required, regardless of the number present.\n\n\nInitially, the Governing Body directly appointed all congregation elders. By 1975, the appointment of elders and ministerial servants was said to be \"made directly by a governing body of spirit-anointed elders or by them through other elders representing this body.\" In 2001, \"The Watchtower\", stated that recommendations for such appointments were submitted to branch offices. As of September 2014, circuit overseers appoint elders and ministerial servants after discussion with congregation elders, without consulting with the branch office.\n\nThe Governing Body continues to directly appoint branch office committee members and traveling overseers, and only such direct appointees are described as \"representatives of the Governing Body.\"\n\nThe Governing Body is said to provide \"spiritual food\" for Jehovah's Witnesses worldwide. Until late 2012, the Governing Body described itself as the representative and \"spokesman\" for God's \"faithful and discreet slave class\" (approximately 11,800 Witnesses who profess to be anointed) who are collectively said to be God's \"prophet\" and \"channel for new spiritual light\". The Governing Body does not consult with the other anointed Witnesses whom it was said to represent when formulating policy and doctrines or approving material for publications and conventions; the authority of the Governing Body was presumed to be analogous to that of the older men of Jerusalem in cases such as the first-century circumcision issue. The majority of Witnesses who profess to be anointed have no authority to contribute to the development or change of doctrines. Anointed Witnesses are instructed to remain modest and avoid \"wildly speculating about things that are still unclear,\" instead waiting for God to reveal his purposes in \"The Watchtower\".\n\nIn 2009, \"The Watchtower\" indicated that the dissemination of \"new spiritual light\" is the responsibility of only \"a limited number\" of the \"slave class\", asking: \"Are all these anointed ones throughout the earth part of a global network that is somehow involved in revealing new spiritual truths? No.\" In 2010 the society said that \"deep truths\" were discerned by \"responsible representatives\" of the \"faithful and discreet slave class\" at the group's headquarters, and then considered by the entire Governing Body before making doctrinal decisions. In August 2011, the Governing Body cast doubt on other members' claims of being anointed, stating that \"A number of factors—including past religious beliefs or even mental or emotional imbalance—might cause some to assume mistakenly that they have the heavenly calling.\" The Governing Body also stated that \"we have no way of knowing the exact number of anointed ones on earth; nor do we need to know\", and that it \"does not maintain a global network of anointed ones.\" At the 2012 Annual Meeting of the Watch Tower Society, the \"faithful and discreet slave\" was redefined as referring to the Governing Body only and the terms are now synonymous.\n\nThe following people are members of the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses (year appointed in parentheses):\n\nPrior to 1971, various Watch Tower Society directors were informally identified as members of the \"governing body\". Jehovah's Witnesses publications began capitalizing \"Governing Body\" as a proper noun in 1971; \"The Watchtower\" that year announced \"The present Governing Body comprises eleven anointed witnesses of Jehovah.\" These eleven members are indicated in italics in the list below. Years active are shown in parentheses. All members served until their deaths unless specified.\n\n"}
{"id": "51457628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51457628", "title": "Harold Slusher", "text": "Harold Slusher\n\nHarold Schultz Slusher (1934—) is an American physicist and young-earth creationist. He is assistant professor of physics at the University of Texas at El Paso and a member of the Institute for Creation Research. In 1986, Kendrick Frazier called him \"perhaps the most outspoken critic of conventional science among the creationists\".\nSlusher claims he has an honorary D.Sc. from Indiana Christian University (ICU) and a Ph.D. in geophysics from Columbia Pacific University. However, Robert Schadewald has claimed that ICU is a Bible college with no more than two people in its graduate science department, and that CPU \"exhibits several qualities of a degree mill\".\n"}
{"id": "39569140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39569140", "title": "Hollywood Anti-Nazi League", "text": "Hollywood Anti-Nazi League\n\nThe Hollywood Anti-Nazi League (later known as the American Peace Mobilization) was founded in Los Angeles in 1936 by Otto Katz and others to organize members of the American film industry to oppose fascism and Nazism. Although it was a communist front organization, run by the American popular front, it attracted broad support in Hollywood from both members and nonmembers of the Communist Party USA (CPUSA). Like many such communist front groups, it ceased all anti-Nazi activities immediately upon the signing of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact in August 1939.\n\nIn 1936 the CPUSA ordered Otto Katz to raise funds and to found the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League (HANL). To kick off his work, Katz held a hundred-dollar-a-plate fundraising dinner, which was attended by, among others, Irving Thalberg, Jack L. Warner, David O. Selznick, and Samuel Goldwyn. John Joseph Cantwell, Cardinal of Los Angeles, was on hand to bless the proceedings. Actress and artist Gloria Stuart was also involved in the League's founding. Katz formed the HANL under the auspices of the \"mother of all front groups,\" the American League for Peace and Democracy.\n\nKatz and his cofounder, Hubertus zu Löwenstein, held an organizational meeting at the Wilshire Ebell Theatre in Los Angeles. At the meeting, screenwriter Donald Ogden Stewart and author Dorothy Parker, fellow members of the Algonquin Round Table, were named respectively chairman and honorary chairman by acclamation.\n\nThe HANL was the first American anti-Nazi organization that was not overtly linked to American Jews, and served \"as the focal point of the [film] industry's anti-Nazism\" from 1936 through 1939. There was, in fact, friction between the League and other organized Jewish groups in Los Angeles. For instance, The Community Relations Committee, a group which served as a \"political instrument of wealthy Los Angeles Jews,\" seemed, according to screenwriter and League activist Hy Kraft, to use most of the energy it spent interacting with the League trying to convince them to change their name to the \"Hollywood Anti-Nazi Anti-Communist League.\"\n\nAlthough the HANL was a communist front organization, its membership spanned the entire political spectrum. Stewart, Herbert Biberman, Robert Rossen, Francis Edward Faragoh, and Ring Lardner, Jr. were party members. The HANL had both liberal (e.g. Philip Dunne and Jo Swerling) and conservative (e.g. Herman J. Mankiewicz) members who were not in the CPUSA. The League claimed a membership of 5000, although Leo Rosten thought that this figure was exaggerated.\n\nBy 1937 the board of directors of the HANL included Jack Warner and Carl Laemmle, as well as the head of the Hollywood division of the CPUSA, John Howard Lawson. The famous members of the League, whose names appeared on its letterhead and in its publications, didn't have much to do with the actual operations, though, which were left in the hands of lesser-known CPUSA members.\n\nThe League inaugurated its founding with a huge party at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles in October 1936. In attendance were Irving Berlin, and Gale Sondergaard. Los Angeles mayor Frank Shaw gave a speech, as did Eddie Cantor who, perhaps having had let his passion get the better of him, claimed that Nazi agents had tried to prevent his attendance. Dorothy Parker spoke as well.\n\nThe HANL published a weekly newspaper, the \"Hollywood Anti-Nazi News\", beginning in October 1936 and another journal, \"Hollywood Now\". By 1937 the League was running two radio programs on Los Angeles station KFWB, mostly scripted by Donald Stewart and Herbert Biberman. It had local sections in Silver Lake, Hollywood, Beverly Hills, and other neighborhoods around Los Angeles County.\n\nAmong these other activities, the League sponsored a variety of dinners, lectures, and rallies. The HANL also organized boycotts of German products and picketed meetings of the Los Angeles chapter of the German American Bund.\n\nThe HANL also publicized visits of prominent fascists to Los Angeles in order to shame their hosts, including Vittorio Mussolini, son of the Italian dictator Benito Mussolini. Mussolini was visiting Los Angeles in order to study film-making. The morning of his arrival, September 25, 1937, the HANL ran ads in Hollywood trade papers but did not hold protests at the airport. Mussolini stayed with producer Hal Roach during his time in Hollywood.\n\nThe League also protested Nazi film-maker Leni Riefenstahl's visit to Hollywood at the invitation of Walt Disney in November 1938. The HANL again took out ads in Hollywood trade papers calling on the industry to \"close its doors to all Nazi agents.\" The admonition was somewhat successful, and Riefenstahl issued a statement about the advertisement saying that she was surprised that the League had attacked her personally and that she was not an agent of the Nazi government. Riefenstahl, interviewed in France after her three-month trip to America, said that she had \"received everywhere lustrous reception except Hollywood where she was only received by Walt Disney, but was otherwise boycotted at the instigation of the Anti Nazi League.\"\n\nThe League also attempted to convince the studios to produce an anti-Nazi film, but they were hindered in their efforts because the Motion Picture Production Code decreed that movies should be apolitical. They also accused the studios of changing the ending of \"The Road Back\", a film by James Whale based on a novel of the same name by Erich Maria Remarque, in order to \"'glorify' Hitler.\"\n\nThe HANL was one of the very first groups targeted by HUAC when it was taken over by Conservative Democratic Congressman Martin Dies, who said, accurately enough, that the group was \"under the control of the communists.\" In the Summer of 1940, Los Angeles County District Attorney Buron Fitts convened a grand jury to investigate \"a Communist objective to overthrow the government and assassinate leading industrialists who refuse to 'play ball.'\" A former CPUSA organizer testified to the grand jury that the party had set up the HANL in order to raise funds from wealthy members of the film industry. He testified that \"because of Hitler's anti-Semitic program, the Communist party conceived the idea of playing on the fears of the Jewish people and getting them into the Communist party by selling them on the idea that the party, being an international organization, was the only agency in position to effectually combat the influence of Hitlerism and afford protection to the Jews.\"\n\nAfter the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact was signed in August 1939, guaranteeing neutrality between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, communist-backed organizations were no longer allowed by the Comintern to oppose Nazism. The HANL changed its name, first to the \"Hollywood League for Democratic Action\" and finally, in concert with a number of other formerly anti-Nazi front groups, to the American Peace Mobilization.\n"}
{"id": "1208708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1208708", "title": "Identity cleansing", "text": "Identity cleansing\n\nIdentity cleansing is defined as \"confiscation of personal identification, passports, and other such documents in order to make it difficult or impossible for those driven out to return\".\n\nExpelled Kosovar Albanians were systematically stripped of identity and property documents including passports, land titles, automobile license plates, identity cards and other documents. In conjunction with the policy of expelling ethnic Albanians from the province—\"Operation Horseshoe\", as it came to be known—the Yugoslav forces would confiscate all documents that indicated the identity of those being expelled. Physicians for Human Rights reports that nearly 60 percent of respondents to its survey observed Yugoslav forces removing or destroying personal identification documents. Human Rights Watch also documented the common practice of \"identity cleansing\": refugees expelled toward Albania were frequently stripped of their identity documents and forced to remove the license plates from their vehicles. This criminal practice suggesting the government was trying to block their return.\n\nIn addition to confiscating the relevant documents from their holders, efforts were also made to destroy any actual birth records (and other archives) which were maintained by governmental agencies, so as to make the \"cleansing\" complete (this latter tactic sometimes being referred to as \"archival cleansing\").\n\nThis practice received worldwide condemnation, and evidence of it has been brought at the war crimes trials held at The Hague after the situation in Kosovo was stabilized following the NATO bombing of FR Yugoslavia and the subsequent collapse of its nationalist government. Despite difficulties due to \"identity cleansing\", UNMIK and Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe registered 1.3 million voters until the October 2002 municipal elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "14599502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14599502", "title": "International real estate", "text": "International real estate\n\nThe term international real estate describes a relatively new phenomenon, beginning in the 1980s and keeping pace with globalization. The term encompasses real property development, sales and leasing transactions across national borders. International real estate could be viewed as one of the most dynamic branches of real estate although it is, by definition, influenced by fluctuating market value in various sectors between countries, as can be evidenced by the 2008 global credit crisis.\n\nInternational real estate is best subdivided into two categories: international commercial real estate and international residential real estate. Some examples of international real estate transactions are:\n\n\nMost international commercial real estate transactions take place between corporations and may involve, lead to, or be a consequence of legal, design, urban planning, engineering, financing, and construction work. From a national government perspective, attracting foreign investment into real estate development projects can be a key priority for increasing country revenue and a key strategy for increasing the availability of national infrastructure and amenities.\n\nSome of the factors leading to the growth in the international commercial real estate sector are:\n\n\nInternational capital market integration requires institutional help, both through the emergence of investment products catering to international investors, and through reliable information sources that make markets more transparent. \nThe development of public equity and debt real estate market makes it much easier for investors to allocate significant amount of money outside their home market. \nThe overall growth of the global property share market is helped by the proliferation of tax pass-through structures all over the world.\nThe success of the U.S. REIT market has prompted regulators in many countries to introduce similar-but different named structures. \nREITs are an important development in the internationalization of property markets.\n\nMost international residential real estate transactions are generated by individuals purchasing lots or built units (including family homes, apartments, and condominium units). These purchases form the bulk of what is sometimes referred to as the vacation/second home market or residential tourism market.\n\nIf a person wishes to initiate international real estate investment for the individual’s or the institution’s portfolio, the person or financial manager may consider multiple avenues. The indirect method of entering international real estate investment may involve passive investment in securities that are based on international real estate \ncollateral or passive investment in international real estate service firms and offices. The direct method of entering international real estate investment may involve total \nacquisition or partial acquisition of the foreign property.\n\nFor developed countries whose GDP per capita is above threshold level, it is calculate the value of institutional-grade real estate is 45% of national GDP, which is consistent with data gathered. However, to determine the size of institutional-grade real estate markets in developing countries adjustments are made because only the more affluent segments of the population in those countries have the wherewithal to use such real estate.\n\nSome of the factors leading to the growth in the international residential real estate sector are:\n\nA major increase in international real estate investing has been taking place between China and the United States. In the U.S., the Chinese are now the largest foreign buyers of homes, accounting for $28.6 billion of sales in the 12 months ended March 2015, according to the National Association of Realtors. There are three major reasons why Chinese are investing in the US real estate market: investment diversification, overseas education of their child and immigration.\n\nThe Chinese real estate website Juwai.com estimates that Chinese real estate holdings abroad totaled $80 billion in 2015 and are expected to balloon to $220 billion by 2020. Chinese investors are interested in commercial projects, residential properties, hotels, golf courses, clubs, land, industrial warehouses, office buildings, and shopping centers. Chinese investors initially were focused mostly on the major gateway cities such as New York City, San Francisco, Los Angeles but are now moving into other cities as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "831882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=831882", "title": "Jantantrik Bahujan Samaj Party", "text": "Jantantrik Bahujan Samaj Party\n\nJantantrik Bahujan Samaj Party (Democratic Majority Society Party), splinter group of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) formed in 1997 when 19 BSP Members of the Legislative Assembly of Uttar Pradesh broke away. JBSP allied themselves with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and joined the National Democratic Alliance. In UP they gave their support to Kalyan Singh's government. 17 out of the JBSP MLAs were inducted as ministers in the state government. The president of JBSP was DP Yadav (Rajya Sabha MP) and the general secretary Shahidullah Khan.\n\nJBSP became an unstable party, and suffered various splits. Four MLAs defected to Lok Jan Shakti Party. Another splinter group was Kisan Mazdoor Bahujan Party.\n\nWhen JBSP fell apart DP Yadav organized a new party, Rashtriya Parivartan Dal.\n\nJBSP should not be confused with another BSP splinter group, Loktantrik Bahujan Samaj Party.\n"}
{"id": "5775842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5775842", "title": "Justice and Freedom Party", "text": "Justice and Freedom Party\n\nThe Justice and Freedom Party (JFP) was a minor political party in Fiji. It was formed in 2000 to promote the interests of the Indo-Fijian community, and unsuccessfully contested the 2001 and 2006 elections. It was dissolved in 2013.\n\nIn the 2001 election the party gained less than 0.1 percent of the popular vote and won no constituencies. With some 76 percent of Indo-Fijians voting for the Fiji Labour Party and 22 percent for the National Federation Party, the JFP was squeezed out.\n\nIn the 2006 elections, the party intended to run candidates in all 19 communal constituencies allocated to Indo-Fijians, and on 3 April published a manifesto promising to petition the Commonwealth of Nations and the United Nations to press the United Kingdom and Australia to accept responsibility for bringing Indians to Fiji during the colonial era. It also promised a F$10 million scholarship for Indo-Fijian students. The party would also push for dual citizenship to be allowed for Indo-Fijians living in Australia and the United Kingdom, and for British passports to be restored to Indo-Fijians living in Fiji, JFP General Secretary Dildar Shah said. On 7 April, however, it was announced that the JFP had decided to merge with the multiracial National Alliance Party of Fiji under the leadership of Ratu Epeli Ganilau. Some JFP members, including Shah, would contest the forthcoming election on 6–13 May for the Alliance, Ganilau said. However, it did subsequently contest the election, gaining only 18 votes.\n\nIn 2006 the Fijian government was overthrown and the Fijian parliament dissolved in a coup. In January 2013 the military regime promulgated new regulations governing the registration of political parties, requiring all parties to have at least 5,000 members. The JFP welcomed the new regulations but was unable to gain the required number of members. it was therefore wound up and its assets forfeited to the state.\n"}
{"id": "40230064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40230064", "title": "Kolkhoz", "text": "Kolkhoz\n\nA kolkhoz (, a contraction of коллективное хозяйство, collective ownership, kollektivnoye khozaystvo) was a form of collective farm in the Soviet Union. Kolkhozes existed along with state farms or sovkhoz. These were the two components of the \"socialized farm sector\" that began to emerge in Soviet agriculture after the October Revolution of 1917, as an antithesis both to the feudal structure of impoverished serfdom and aristocratic landlords and to individual or family farming.\n\nThe 1920s were characterized by spontaneous emergence of collective farms, under influence of traveling propaganda workers. Initially a collective farm resembled an updated version of the traditional Russian \"commune\", the generic \"farming association\" (\"zemledel’cheskaya artel’\"), the association for joint cultivation of land (TOZ), and finally the kolkhoz. This gradual shift to collective farming in the first 15 years after the October Revolution was turned into a \"violent stampede\" during the forced collectivization campaign that began in 1928 as means to countering \"counterrevolutionary elements\". \n\nThe Russian portmanteau was adopted in other languages as a Russian word, however some other languages it was adopted as part of own culture, i.e. , , .\n\nAs a collective farm, a \"kolkhoz\" was legally organized as a production cooperative. The Standard Charter of a kolkhoz, which since the early 1930s had the force of law in the USSR, is a model of cooperative principles in print. It speaks of the kolkhoz as a \"form of agricultural production cooperative of peasants that voluntarily unite for the purpose of joint agricultural production based on [...] collective labor\". It asserts that \"the kolkhoz is managed according to the principles of socialist self-management, democracy, and openness, with active participation of the members in decisions concerning all aspects of internal life\".\n\nIn practice, the collective farm that emerged after Stalin’s collectivization campaign did not have many characteristics of a true cooperative, except for nominal joint ownership of non-land assets by the members (the land in the Soviet Union was nationalized in 1917). Importantly, remuneration had always been in proportion to labor and not from residual profits, implying that members were treated as employees and not as owners. Even the basic principle of voluntary membership was violated by the process of forced collectivization; members did not retain a right of free exit, and those who managed to leave could not take their share of assets with them (neither in kind nor in cash-equivalent form).\n\nThey imposed detailed work programs and nominated their preferred managerial candidates. Since the mid-1930s, the kolkhozes had been in effect an offshoot of the state sector (although notionally they continued to be owned by their members). Nevertheless, in locations with particularly good land or if it happened to have capable management, some kolkhozes accumulated substantial sums of money in their bank accounts. Subsequently, numerous kolkhozes were formally nationalized by changing their status to \"sovkhozes\". The faint dividing lines between collective and state farms were obliterated almost totally in the late 1960s, when Khrushchev’s administration authorized a guaranteed wage to kolkhoz members, similarly to sovkhoz employees. Essentially, his administration recognized their status as hired hands rather than authentic cooperative members. The guaranteed wage provision was incorporated in the 1969 version of the Standard Charter.\n\nThe question of internal organization was important in the new kolkhozes. The most basic measure was to divide the workforce into a number of groups, generally known as brigades, for working purposes. By July 1929 it was already normal practice for the large kolkhoz of 200-400 households to be divided into temporary or permanent work units of 15-30 households.' The authorities gradually came down in favour of the fixed, combined brigade, that is the brigade with its personnel, land, equipment and draught horses fixed to it for the whole period of agricultural operations, and taking responsibility for all relevant tasks during that period. The brigade was headed by a brigade leader (\"brigadir\"). This was usually a local man (a few were women).\n\nAfter the kolkhoz amalgamations of 1950 the territorial successor of the old village kolkhoz was the \"complex brigade\" (brigade of brigades), a sub-unit of the new enlarged kolkhoz.\n\nBrigades could be subdivided into smaller units called zvenos (links) for carrying out some or all of their tasks.\n\nSee collectivisation in the USSR and agriculture in the Soviet Union for general discussion of Soviet agriculture.\n\nIn a kolkhoz, a member, called a \"kolkhoznik\" (, feminine form \"kolkhoznitsa\", ), received a share of the farm's product and profit according to the number of days worked, whereas a sovkhoz employed salaried workers. In practice, most kolkhozy did not pay their \"members\" in cash at all. In 1946, 30 percent of kolkhozy paid no cash for labor at all, 10.6 paid no grain, and 73.2 percent paid 500 grams of grain or less per day worked. In addition the kolkhoz was required to sell its grain crop and other products to the State at fixed prices. These were set by Soviet government very low, and the difference between what the State paid the farm and what the State charged consumers represented a major source of income for the Soviet government.\n\nIn 1948 the Soviet government charged wholesalers 335 rubles for 100 kilograms of rye, but paid the kolkhoz roughly 8 rubles. Nor did such prices change much to keep up with inflation. Prices paid by the Soviet government hardly changed at all between 1929 and 1953, meaning that the State came to pay less than one half or even one third of the cost of production.\n\nMembers of kolkhozy had the right to hold a small area of private land and some animals. The size of the private plot varied over the Soviet period, but was usually about . Before the Russian Revolution of 1917 a peasant with less than was considered too poor to maintain a family. However, the productivity of such plots is reflected in the fact that in 1938 3.9 percent of total sown land was in the form of private plots, but in 1937 those plots produced 21.5 percent of gross agriculture output. Kolkhozniki had to do a minimum number of days work per year both on the kolkhoz and on other government work (such as road building). In one kolkhoz the requirements were a minimum of 130 days a year for each able-bodied adult and 50 days per boy aged between 12 and 16. That was distributed around the year according to the agricultural cycle. If kolkhoz members did not perform the required minimum of work, the penalties could involve confiscation of the farmer's private plot, a trial in front of a People's Court that could result in three to eight months of hard labour on the kolkhoz or up to one year in a corrective labor camp.\n\nIn both kolkhozy and sovkhozy, villagers were prevented from leaving, and especially from moving from rural areas to urban areas. In urban areas, a system of internal passports and residence permits existed to control the movement of population, but in the countryside the villagers did not even have the internal passports which were legally necessary for any domestic travel.\n\nKolkhozes and sovkhozes in the USSR: number of farms, average size, and share in agricultural production\n\nSource: \"Statistical Yearbook of the USSR\", various years, State Statistical Committee of the USSR, Moscow.\n\nWith the dissolution of the Soviet Union in December 1991, the former Soviet republics became target for criminal interests and pitiful unstable financial situation undermined any perspective for their development. The so-called general policy of transition from the Soviet centrally planned economy to a market economy de-facto failed. The number of kolkhozes and sovkhozes declined rapidly after 1992, while other corporate forms gained in prominence.\n\nStill, field surveys conducted in CIS countries in the 1990s generally indicated that, in the opinion of the members and the managers, many of the new corporate farms behaved and functioned for all practical reasons like the old kolkhozes. Formal re-registration only \"changed the sign on the door\" and did not produce radical internal restructuring of the traditional Soviet farm, although this was badly needed for improving productivity and efficiency of the former Soviet farms.\n\nNumber of kolkhozes and all corporate farms in Russia, Ukraine, and Moldova 1990-2005\n\n\"Sources\": \n\nKolkhozes have disappeared almost completely in Transcaucasian and Central Asian states. In Armenia, Georgia, and Azerbaijan the disappearance of the kolkhoz was part of an overall individualization of agriculture, with family farms displacing corporate farms in general. In Central Asian countries, some corporate farms persist, but no kolkhozes remain. Thus, in Turkmenistan, a presidential decree of June 1995 summarily \"reorganized\" all kolkhozes into \"peasant associations\" (). In Tajikistan, a presidential decree of October 1995 initiated a process of conversion of kolkhozes into share-based farms operating on leased land, agricultural production cooperatives, and dehkan (peasant) farms. However, contrary to the practice in all other CIS countries, one-third of the 30,000 peasant farms in Tajikistan are organized as \"collective dehkan farms\" and not family farms. These collective dehkan farms are often referred to as \"kolkhozy\" in the vernacular, although legally they are a different organizational form and the number of \"true\" kolkhozes in Tajikistan today is less than 50. Similarly in Uzbekistan the 1998 Land Code renamed all kolkhozes and sovkhozes \"shirkats\" (Uzbek for agricultural cooperatives) and just five years later, in October 2003, the government's new strategy for land reform prescribed a sweeping reorientation from \"shirkats\" to peasant farms, which since then have virtually replaced all corporate farms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "468297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=468297", "title": "Li Dazhao", "text": "Li Dazhao\n\nLi Dazhao (; October 29, 1888 – April 28, 1927) was a Chinese intellectual who co-founded the Communist Party of China with Chen Duxiu and other early communists in 1921.\n\nLi was born into a peasant family in Laoting County, Hebei province. He started his formal modern education at Yongpingfu Middle school. From 1907 to 1913, he studied at Beiyang College of Politics and Law in Tianjin. From 1914 to 1916, Li studied political economy at Waseda University in Japan before returning to China in 1916. He did not finish his learning but was repelled by Waseda because of his long absences for his active participation into the anti-Yuan Shikai campaign in Shanghai in early 1916.\n\nAs a leading intellectual in the New Culture Movement, Li was recruited by Cai Yuanpei to head the library at Peking University. In this position he influenced a number of students in the May Fourth Movement, including Mao Zedong, who worked in the library's reading room. Li was among the first of the Chinese intellectuals to look to China's villages as a basis for a political movement and was among the earliest to explore the Bolshevik government in the Soviet Union as a possible model for China's reform. Even as late as 1921, however, he still maintained warm relations with other New Culture figures such as Hu Shi.\n\nBy many accounts, Li was a nationalist and believed that the peasantry in China were to play an important role in China's revolution. As with many intellectuals of his time, the roots of Li's revolutionary thinking were actually mostly in Kropotkin's communist anarchism, but after the events of the May Fourth Movement and the failures of the anarchistic experiments of many intellectuals, like his compatriots, he turned more towards Marxism. Of course, the success of the Bolshevik Revolution was a major factor in the changing of his views. In later years, Li combined both his original nationalist and newly acquired Marxist views in order to contribute a strong political view to China (Meisner 1967, 178).\n\nLi initiated the Peking Socialist Youth Corps in 1920 (Pringsheim 1962, p76), in advance of the first meeting of the Communist Party of China (CPC) in Shanghai in July, 1921. Though Li was unable to attend, he was named co-founder of the CPC, along with Chen Duxiu.\n\nUnder the leadership of Li and Chen, the CPC developed a close relationship with the Soviet controlled Comintern. At the direction of the Comintern, Li and Chen were inducted into the Kuomintang in 1922. Li was elected to the KMT's Central Executive Committee in 1924.\n\nTensions between the Comintern, the KMT, and the CPC presented opportunities for political intrigue and opportunism. With the collapse of the United Front in 1927, Li was captured during a raid ordered by the Fengtian clique on the Soviet embassy in Peking (Beijing). Along with nineteen others arrested in the raid, he was executed by hanging on the orders of the warlord Zhang Zuolin on April 28, 1927.\n\n"}
{"id": "16134471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16134471", "title": "Liberty Caucus", "text": "Liberty Caucus\n\nThe House Liberty Caucus is a congressional caucus consisting of conservative, libertarian and libertarian conservative Republican members of the United States House of Representatives. It hosts a bimonthly luncheon in Washington, D.C. The group was founded by Rep. Justin Amash of Michigan and joined by Republican members who wanted to \"focus on specific issues like economic freedom, individual liberty, and following the Constitution\". The caucus has also been characterized as \"conservative with a libertarian emphasis\" and associated with the Tea Party movement.\n\n\nPrior to the formal creation of the House Liberty Caucus, Rep. Ron Paul hosted a luncheon in Washington, D.C. every Thursday for a group of Republican members of the House of Representatives that he called the Liberty Caucus. The group was in close association with the political action committee the Republican Liberty Caucus and \"support[ed] individual rights, limited government and free enterprise\". Past attendees of this luncheon include:\n\nAfter the 112th Congress began and Ron Paul switched his focus to his presidential campaign, his luncheon was replaced by a formal congressional member organization called the House Liberty Caucus and chaired by Justin Amash. In June 2014, the caucus supported Raúl Labrador's campaign for House Majority Leader.\n\nPast members of the current organization include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1224766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1224766", "title": "Linguistic purism in English", "text": "Linguistic purism in English\n\nLinguistic purism in the English language is the belief that words of native origin should be used instead of foreign-derived ones (which are mainly Latinate and Greek). \"Native\" can mean \"Anglo-Saxon\" or it can be widened to include all Germanic words. In its mildest form, it merely means using existing native words instead of foreign-derived ones (such as using \"begin\" instead of \"commence\"). In a less mild form, it also involves coining new words from Germanic roots (such as \"wordstock\" for \"vocabulary\"). In a more extreme form, it also involves reviving native words that are no longer widely used (such as \"ettle\" for \"intend\"). The resulting language is sometimes called Anglish (coined by the author and humorist Paul Jennings), or Roots English (referring to the idea that it is a \"return to the roots\" of English). The mild form is often advocated as part of Plain English, but the more extreme form has been and continues to be a fringe movement; the latter can also be undertaken as a form of constrained writing.\n\nEnglish linguistic purism is discussed by David Crystal in the \"Cambridge Encyclopedia of the English Language\". The idea dates at least to the inkhorn term controversy of the 16th and 17th centuries. In the 19th century, writers such as Charles Dickens, Thomas Hardy and William Barnes advocated linguistic purism and tried to introduce words like \"birdlore\" for \"ornithology\" and \"bendsome\" for \"flexible\". A notable supporter in the 20th century was George Orwell, who advocated what he saw as plain Saxon words over complex Latin or Greek ones, and the idea continues to have advocates today.\n\nOld English adopted a small number of Greco-Roman loan words from an early period, especially in the context of Christianity (\"church\", \"bishop\", \"priest\"). From the 9th century (Danelaw) it borrowed a much larger number of Old Norse words, many for every-day terms (\"skull\", \"egg\", \"skirt\").\n\nAfter the Norman conquest of 1066–71, the top level of English society was replaced by people who spoke Old Norman (a dialect of Old French). It evolved into Anglo-Norman and became the language of the state. Hence, those who wished to be involved in fields such as law and governance were required to learn it (see \"Law French\" for example).\n\nIt was in this Middle English period that the English language borrowed a slew of Romance loan words (via Anglo-Norman) – see \"Latin influence in English\". However, there were a few writers who tried to withstand the overbearing influence of Anglo-Norman. Their goal was to provide literature to the English-speaking masses in their vernacular or mother tongue. This meant not only writing in English, but also taking care not to use any words of Romance origin, which would likely not be understood by the readers. Examples of this kind of literature are the \"Ormulum\", \"Layamon's Brut\", \"Ayenbite of Inwyt\", and the Katherine Group of manuscripts in the \"AB language\".\n\nIn the 16th and 17th centuries, controversy over needless foreign borrowings from Latin and Greek (known as \"inkhorn terms\") was rife. Critics argued that English already had words with identical meanings. However, many of the new words gained an equal footing with the native Germanic words, and often replaced them.\n\nWriters such as Thomas Elyot flooded their writings with foreign borrowings, whilst writers such as John Cheke sought to keep their writings \"pure\". Cheke wrote:I am of this opinion that our own tung should be written cleane and pure, unmixt and unmangeled with borowing of other tunges; wherein if we take not heed by tiim, ever borowing and never paying, she shall be fain to keep her house as bankrupt.\n\nIn reaction, some writers tried either to resurrect older English words, such as \"gleeman\" for musician, \"sicker\" (itself an early borrowing from Latin \"sēcūrus\") for certainly, \"inwit\" for conscience, and \"yblent\" for confused, or to make new words from Germanic roots, e.g. \"endsay\" for conclusion, \"yeartide\" for anniversary, \"foresayer\" for prophet. However, few of these words remain in common use.\n\nA noted advocate of English linguistic purism was 19th-century English writer, poet, minister, and philologist William Barnes, who sought to make scholarly English easier to understand without a classical education. Barnes lamented the \"needless inbringing\" of foreign words, instead using native words from his own dialect and coining new ones based on Old English roots. These included \"speechcraft\" for \"grammar\", \"birdlore\" for \"ornithology\", \"fore-elders\" for \"ancestors\" and \"bendsome\" for \"flexible\". Another 19th-century poet who supported linguistic purism was Gerard Manley Hopkins. He wrote in 1882, \"It makes one weep to think what English might have been; for in spite of all that Shakespeare and Milton have done ... no beauty in a language can make up for want of purity\".\n\nIn his 1946 essay \"Politics and the English Language\", George Orwell wrote:Bad writers—especially scientific, political, and sociological writers—are nearly always haunted by the notion that Latin or Greek words are grander than Saxon ones.\n\nA contemporary of Orwell, the Australian composer Percy Grainger, wrote English with only Germanic words and called it \"blue-eyed English\". For example, a \"composer\" became a \"tonesmith\". He also used English terms instead of the traditional Italian ones as performance markings in his scores, e.g. \"louden lots\" instead of \"\".\n\nLee Hollander's 1962 English translation of the \"Poetic Edda\" (a collection of Old Norse poems), written almost solely with Germanic words, would also inspire many future \"Anglish\" writers.\n\nIn 1966, Paul Jennings wrote three articles in \"Punch\", to commemorate the 900th anniversary of the Norman conquest. His articles, entitled '1066 and All Saxon', published on 15, 22 and 29 June, posed the question of what England would be like had it not happened. They included an example of what he called \"Anglish\", such as a sample of Shakespeare's writing as it might have been if the conquest had failed. He gave \"a bow to William Barnes\".\n\nIn 1989, science fiction writer Poul Anderson wrote a text about basic atomic theory called \"Uncleftish Beholding\". It was written using only words of Germanic origin, and was meant to show what English scientific works might look like without foreign borrowings. In 1992, Douglas Hofstadter jokingly referred to the style as \"Ander-Saxon\". This term has since been used to describe any scientific writings that use only Germanic words.\n\nAnderson used techniques including:\n\nThe first chapter of Alan Moore's 1996 novel \"Voice of the Fire\" uses mostly Germanic words. \n\nAnother approach, without a specific name-tag, can be seen in the September 2009 publication \"How We'd Talk if the English had Won in 1066\", by David Cowley (the title referencing the Battle of Hastings). This updates Old English words to today's English spelling, and seeks mainstream appeal by covering words in five steps, from easy to \"weird and wonderful\", as well as giving many examples of use, drawings and tests.\n\nPaul Kingsnorth's 2014 \"The Wake\" is written in a hybrid of Old English and Modern English to account for its 1066 milieu.\n\nEdmund Fairfax's satiric literary novel \"Outlaws\" (2017) is written in a \"constructed\" form of English consisting almost exclusively of words of Germanic origin, with many neologisms (e.g., \"kenkeen\" for 'curious', \"to enhold\" for 'to contain') and little-used or obsolete words transparent in meaning to the modern reader (e.g., \"to misfare\" for 'to fail', \"to overlive\" for 'to survive'), and employing alternative orthographic conventions in compounds and phrasal constructions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5797225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5797225", "title": "List of think tanks in the United Kingdom", "text": "List of think tanks in the United Kingdom\n\nThis is a list of think tanks in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "10780834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10780834", "title": "Listen to Me (film)", "text": "Listen to Me (film)\n\nListen to Me is a 1989 American drama film written and directed by Douglas Day Stewart. Released on May 5, 1989, it stars Kirk Cameron, Jami Gertz, and Roy Scheider. The film was largely shot on location in Malibu, California, including the campus of Pepperdine University.\n\n\"Listen to Me\" centers around a group of college students who are members of the debate team at fictional Kenmont College. The two main characters, Tucker Muldowney (Cameron) and Monica Tomanski (Gertz), come from underprivileged backgrounds, having won scholarships to Kenmont for displaying exceptional talent for debating. Both students are taken under the wing of the debate team coach, Charlie Nichols (Scheider), who was a star debater in his youth.\n\nThe team eventually wins a chance to debate the issue of abortion in front of the Supreme Court. Along the way, the students learn lessons about life, love, friendship, and politics.\n\n\n\nThe film was originally called \"Mismatch\" and was meant to star James Garner but he had heart surgery and was replaced by Roy Scheider. Filming started in May 1988. \n\nThe film was re-titled \"Talking Back\" when released on video in the US.\n\n\"It's kind of the flipside of \"Less Than Zero\",\" said associate producer Chuck Cooperman. \"These people are our future leaders. They're just as bright, concerned and just as passionate as anyone.\"\n\nIt was financed by the Weintraub Entertainment Group from Jerry Weintraub.\n\nKirk Cameron said it \"was easy for me to relate to\" his character. \"To begin with, it's a dramatic part. It's not a film about teenagers with half a brain running around drinking, dancing and partying. The characters are intelligent and responsible. They are genuinely concerned about the world we live in. It's much closer to reality than other teen pictures. It's time to show the other side of my generation, the deeper side.\"\n\nThe film's marketing was going to focus on Kirk Cameron, then at the height of his popularity. However Jerry Weintraub over-rode them and insisted on ads that emphasised the fact the film dealt with a debate about abortion, hoping to stir up controversy. The movie was a flop at the box office. \"Fans were neither angered or disturbed, they simply stayed away,\" wrote the \"Wall Street Journal\". \n"}
{"id": "1873824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1873824", "title": "Mandela and Tambo", "text": "Mandela and Tambo\n\nMandela and Tambo was a South African law firm established by Nelson Mandela and Oliver Tambo in Johannesburg in late 1952. It was the first \"Attorney Firm\" in the country to be run by black partners.\n\nIn August 1952, Mandela had opened his own firm but, after just several months, he invited Tambo to join him in the establishment of Mandela and Tambo in two small rooms at Chancellor House, the building housing the headquarters of the African National Congress. The firm was inundated with clients seeking redress from acts of the oppressive apartheid regime. In South Africa, \"Attorney Firms\" would deal with lay clients directly and draft most of the paperwork, and \"instruct\" an Advocate, either practising independently or in-house with the firm, to plead before the Court. Tambo would do much of the paperwork in the office whilst Mandela did most of the advocacy before the magistrates in the courts opposite.\n\nLater others joined the firm, including Duma Nokwe, Ruth Mompati, Mendi Msimang and Godfrey Pitje.\n\nThe firm was closed down in 1960 as Mandela faced charges of treason and Tambo fled the country. The building was later gutted by fire and was an urban slum for many years before being completely refurbished and opened as a museum and archive in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "14263550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14263550", "title": "Ministry of Culture of the People's Republic of China", "text": "Ministry of Culture of the People's Republic of China\n\nThe Ministry of Culture (MOC) was a ministry of the government of the People's Republic of China which was dissolved on March 19, 2018. The responsibilities of the MOC, which were assumed by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, encompassed cultural policy and activities in the country, including managing national museums and monuments; promoting and protecting the arts (including censorship of visual, folk, theatrical, musical, dance, architectural, literary, televisual and cinematographic works); and managing the national archives and regional culture centers. Its headquarters were in Chaoyang District, Beijing.\n\nThe duty of the ministry was to digitize and preserve public domain works, and make them available and accessible to every citizen. China had millions of public domain works, including but not limited to books, pictures, music and films.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47112853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47112853", "title": "Minority languages of Kosovo", "text": "Minority languages of Kosovo\n\nSince 1999 and NATO bombing of Yugoslavia the Albanian language has become dominant language in Kosovo, although equal status is given to Serbian and special status is given to other minority languages. The legislative framework for the protection and promotion of minority languages follows the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, even country is not member of Council of Europe. However, lack of political willingness to enforce legislation from Kosovo institutions and the continued separation of Serb and Albanian communities impede the actual enjoyment of minority language rights.\n\nAssembly of Kosovo adopted \"Law on the Use of Languages\" in 2006 committed Kosovo institutions to ensuring the equal use of Albanian and\nSerbian as the official languages in Kosovo. Other languages can also gain recognition at municipal level as official languages if the linguistic community represents at least 5% of the total population of municipality. Additionally, the Law on the Use of Languages gives Turkish the status of an official language in the municipality of Prizren, irrespective of the size of the Turkish community living there. Although both Albanian and Serbian are official languages, municipal civil servants are only required to speak one of them in a professional setting and, according to Language Commissioner of Kosovo Slaviša Mladenović statement from 2015, no organizations have all of their documents in both languages.\n\nNotes:\n\nReferences:\n"}
{"id": "47658339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47658339", "title": "National Border Service", "text": "National Border Service\n\nThe Border Service(SENAFRONT) is a specialized and permanent police force, structured and organized to protect Panama's land borders and protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity and to protect life, honor, property and other rights and freedoms of individuals under the jurisdiction of the state, maintain public order, prevent, suppress and investigate the crimes and misdemeanors committed within their jurisdictions.\n\nIn case of emergency or an foreign attack on Panama, SENAFRONT is the principal entity of the security forces trained to plan, organize, direct and execute all actions that ensure the security of the territory and population within the sovereign jurisdiction of the territory Panamanian with attachment and loyalty to constitutional and legal order established in the country. Currently it has about 4,000 troops and rising.\n\nIt is currently deployed operationally in 7 combat battalions and one logistic battalion. On the border with the Republic of Colombia, the Eastern Brigade composed of: Caribbean Battalion, Central Battalion, Pacific Battalion, Fluvial Battalion, Battalion General José De Fabregas and Support and Service Battalion.\n\nThe border with the Republic of Costa Rica is the responsibility of the Western Battalion.\n\nHas a Group of Special Forces which is organized by a Special Forces Battalion and deployed in 3 companies as follows:\n\nIts agents are often trained by the United States Army as there are daily clashes with FARC guerrillas on the border with Colombia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8320198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8320198", "title": "Object Orange", "text": "Object Orange\n\nObject Orange (formerly Detroit. Demolition. Disneyland.) is an artistic project in Detroit, Michigan which seeks to draw attention to dilapidated buildings by painting them orange.\n\nThe project is composed of local artists, who go by their first names only (Christian, Jacques, Greg, Mike and Andy) for fear of prosecution. James Canning, communications coordinator for the Mayor's office of Detroit, views the artists' actions as unlawful and vandalism, stating that any demolitions which took place following the project's painting expeditions have been coincidental.\n\nThe artists chose the color \"Tiggerific Orange\" from the Disney paint catalog by Behr for its similarity to traffic cones and the safety orange worn by hunters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25398662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25398662", "title": "Ole Colbjørnsen", "text": "Ole Colbjørnsen\n\nOle Colbjørnsen (30 May 1897, Vegårshei, Aust-Agder – 12 November 1973) was a Norwegian journalist, economist and politician for the Labour Party.\n\nHe was born in Vegårshei as a son of Torjus Taxeraas (1859–1918) and Marie Colbjørnsen (1869–1958). He took his examen artium in Arendal before turning 18 years old, and enrolled as a student in 1915. He studies natural sciences, and got work as an assistant of professors Carl Størmer and Lars Vegard. He also joined the Norwegian Labour Party while studying, and became involved in politics. He identified as a communist, and became interested in working for the Soviet Union. From 1921 he worked in the state news agency Russian Telegraph Agency (ROSTA), and from 1922 to 1928 he worked with trade and finance for the Soviet Union. Eventually he worked with organizing and preparing the first five-year plan. From 1929 to 1931 he headed a shipping company based in London, working with Soviet timber exports.\n\nIn 1931 he returned to Norway. He worked as a financial journalist in the Labour Party's newspaper \"Arbeiderbladet\" from the autumn of 1932. The chief editor of \"Arbeiderbladet\", Martin Tranmæl, was also a prominent party member. As Colbjørnsen broadcast new economic ideas through his articles, among others inspired by John Maynard Keynes and William Beveridge, he too became more involved in the Labour Party. He was invited to the Labour Party national convention of 1933, where he showcased a number of reform proposals. In the same year he wrote the pamphlet \"Hele folket i arbeid\", which also became the party slogan. In 1934 he issued the document \"En norsk treårsplan\" together with Axel Sømme. In it, the authors laid out reforms for a three-year economic plan. Colbjørnsen has been called \"Norway's first plan economist\". The Labour Party had tried a radical and revolutionary tactic ahead of the 1930 general election, but suffered a defeat there. Historians generally agree that from this point, the Labour Party decisively drifted away from the revolutionary rhetoric and policies. Colbjørnsen and Sømme helped build a new political platform. First, they helped shift the labour movement's focus from redistribution to production. Second, they helped create acceptance for doing this within the framework of the state, earlier lambasted as bourgeois.\n\nIn 1935, the Labour Party prevailed and formed a Cabinet led by Johan Nygaardsvold. Colbjørnsen did not become involved in this cabinet, but in the same year he became a member of \"Trustlovkomiteen av 1935\" and the important \"Tiltakskommisjonen av 1935\", whose goal was to battle unemployment. He was a board member of the Norwegian Industrial Bank from 1936, and chairman from 1938 to 1940. Following the 1936 general election he became as a deputy representative to the Parliament of Norway, representing the constituency Oslo, and he met on a regular basis because Oscar Torp was a cabinet member. He was one of the most pro-military politicians in the Labour Party before 1940.\n\nColbjørnsen had to leave Norway when World War II reached the country in 1940. He worked at the Norwegian embassy in Washington, D.C. In 1946 he was a delegate and in 1947 an advisor in the United Nations General Assembly, and in 1947 he participated in the United Nations Economic and Social Council assembly. He became a supporter of Norwegian membership in NATO.\n\nColbjørnsen returned to Norway in November 1948 to become acting director of the \"Direktoratet for økonomisk forsvarsberedskap\", a directorate which does not exist anymore. After a period there led a quiet life. He had married Veslemøy Ihlen Larssen in 1936, and was a son-in-law of Olav Johan Sopp. He died in November 1973 in Oslo.\n"}
{"id": "25938149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25938149", "title": "People with Disability Australia", "text": "People with Disability Australia\n\nPeople with Disability Australia Inc (PWDA) is a national Australian disability rights and advocacy organisation founded in 1981 and based in Redfern, New South Wales. The current president of PWDA is Bonnie Millen.\n\nPWDA is a Disabled Persons Organisation, with an elected board of people with disability, and a national membership of people with disability. PWDA is one of the funded national disability representative organisations for people with disability in Australia.\n\nPWDA was founded in 1981, the International Year of Disabled Persons to provide people with disabilities a voice of their own. In 2002, PWDA’s membership approved a repositioning of PWDA as a national disability rights and advocacy organisation. The organisation’s name was changed from \"People with Disability New South Wales\" to \"People with Disability Australia\" to reflect this new positioning on 2 May 2003. The principal reasons for the change were to position PWDA to undertake work on national policy issues.\n\nBetween 2003-2006 PWDA played a valuable role in the development of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD), organising national consultations and consultations with members, making submissions, hosting seminars, and supporting delegates to attend sessions of the UN Ad Hoc Committee. Through this work PWDA gained Special Consultative Status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations.\n\nFrom 2009 onwards, PWDA continues to play an ongoing role in monitoring the implementation of the CRPD in Australia, and is part of the NGO CRPD Shadow Report Project Group. Along with the organization's national work, PWDA has undertaken international development work in the Pacific since 2004. This non-profit, non governmental peak organisation has been described as \"the only national, cross-disability organisation representing the interests of people with all kinds of disability\" (which includes mental illness).\n\nCraig Wallace, a former president of PWDA, was commended in Parliament on the occasion of his resignation in June 2016. Jenny Macklin MP credited Wallace for the organization's contribution to he development of a National Disability Insurance Scheme and for elevating \"PWDA to the status of a leading disability advocacy body\".\n\nPWDA provides the following services:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "314844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314844", "title": "Political institutions of ancient Rome", "text": "Political institutions of ancient Rome\n\nVarious lists regarding the political institutions of ancient Rome are presented. Each entry in a list is a link to a separate article. Categories included are: constitutions (5), laws (5), and legislatures (7); state offices (28) and office holders (6 lists); political factions (3) and social ranks (8). A political glossary (35) of similar construction follows.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19233165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19233165", "title": "Politics and sports", "text": "Politics and sports\n\nPolitics and sports or sports diplomacy describes the use of sport as a means to influence diplomatic, social, and political relations. Sports diplomacy may transcend cultural differences and bring people together.\n\nThe use of sports and politics has had both positive and negative implications over history. Sports competitions or activities have had the intention to bring about change in certain cases. Nationalistic fervour is sometimes linked to victories or losses to some sport on sports fields.\nWhile the Olympics is often the biggest political example of using sports for diplomatic means, cricket and association football, as well as other sports in the global arena, have also been used in this regard. In the case of Apartheid, sport was used to isolate South Africa and bring about a major overhaul in the country's social structure. While ethnicity and race can cause division, sports can also help blend differences.\n\nAdditionally, numerous athletes have sought political office, some of them unsuccessfully, on either the national level or the sub-national level.\n\nThe most infamous declaration of politics and sport was the Football War between El Salvador and Honduras. Though the build-up to the war had to do with more socio-economic issues like immigration and land reform, the impetus for war was an inflammation of tensions set off by rioters during the second North American qualifying round for the 1970 FIFA World Cup. Disturbances broke out during the first game in Tegucigalpa, but the second leg saw the situation get considerably worse in San Salvador. Honduran fans were roughed up, the Honduran flag and national anthem were insulted, and the emotions of both nations became considerably agitated. In retaliation, violence against Salvadoran residents in Honduras, including several Vice Consuls, increased. An unknown number of Salvadorans were killed or brutalized, and tens of thousands began fleeing the country. The press of both nations contributed to a growing climate of near-hysteria, and on June 27, 1969, twelve days after the second-leg game, Honduras broke diplomatic relations with El Salvador. On July 14, 1969, the Salvadoran army launched an attack against Honduras. The Organization of American States negotiated a cease-fire which took effect on July 20, with the Salvadoran troops withdrawn in early August.\n\nIsrael was one of the founding members of the Asian Football Confederation following its own independence in 1948 (prior to that it played under the banner of \"Palestine/Eretz Yisrael\"). After the 1974 Asian Games in Iran (and a tense loss to Iran), Kuwait and other Arab states refused to play them. Following this, they were expelled from the confederation and spent a few years trying to qualify from such continental bodies as the OFC before joining UEFA.\n\nThe 2004 AFC Asian Cup held in China made headlines due to events that took place during the final between China and Japan, apparently due to historical relations dating back to World War II (see Second Sino-Japanese War and Nanjing Massacre). As the Japanese national anthem was being played, the home fans expressed their anti-Japanese sentiment by drowning out the national anthem with their chants. The Chinese home fans also continually booed the players, visiting fans and officials as they watched Japan defeat China 3–1. After the match, some Chinese fans rioted outside the Beijing Worker's Stadium.\n\nOnce again, on September 6, 2008, Armenia and Turkey faced each other in a 2010 FIFA World Cup qualification match in Yerevan. In an unprecedented step, Turkish President Abdullah Gül was invited to watch the match, where he and his Armenia counterpart, Serzh Sargsyan, sat together, albeit behind bullet-proof glass. However, the Turkish national anthem was almost drowned out by booing from 35,000 Armenian fans, showing there is still a lot of mistrust between the two countries. However, the gesture \"between the presidents showed that they believed 'football diplomacy' had achieved the most important result.\" This was a first for the two countries divided by the legacy of the 20th century's first genocide.\n\nIn 2009, France and the Republic of Ireland met in the 2010 FIFA World Cup qualification play-off, where the winner of the two-legged tie progressed through to the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa. After a 1–1 aggregate draw, the match went into extra time at France's National Stadium. The winning goal came from France's William Gallas, but in the build-up, Thierry Henry twice handled the ball, before passing to Gallas to score. It was seen as a \"Hand of Frog\" goal, in reference to the similar \"Hand of God\" goal in the match between Argentina and England. It the became an international incident with Irish Taoiseach Brian Cowen demanding a replay and the French President telling him to \"stick to politics\". The replay was not given.\n\nIn 2010 relations between Iran and the UAE took a turn for the worse when the Football Federation Islamic Republic of Iran sent a letter to the AFC complaining about the misuse of the \"Persian Gulf\" name. \"The move was made after the UAE misrepresented the name \"Persian Gulf\" during a match between Iran's Sepahan and the UAE's Al Ain. The Emirate television displayed various banners showing a fictitious name for the Persian Gulf during the match between Iran's Sepahan and the UAE's Al Ain. The AFC must take serious measures to deal with UAE actions of the sort\", Taj added. \"The UAE side must be fined for showing a fictitious name for the Persian Gulf during the live broadcast of the match.\" In addition to official comments from the UAE in regards to comparing the three disputed islands of Greater Tunb, the Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, held by Iran, to the occupation of Palestine, calls were made for a downgrade of ties. This also comes after the Islamic Solidarity Games, to be held in Iran, were canceled over the dispute of the \"Persian Gulf\" label.\n\nWhen drawing for UEFA European Championships Qualification a special measure is put in place where by Gibraltar and Spain cannot be drawn together because of the Disputed status of Gibraltar. The same system is in place for Azerbaijan and Armenia because of the poor relations between the two countries. The same measure was put in place for Russia and Georgia after the 2008 Russo-Georgian War but was however lifted for the Euro 2016 tournament when the two agreed to play each other again.\n\nIn Germany, the occasional matchup between FC St. Pauli and F.C. Hansa Rostock is known as the \"Political Derby\" (German: \"Politisches Derby\"). Though not a local derby, these teams' supporters represent opposite sides of Germany's political spectrum.\n\nIn Brazil, Sport Club Corinthians Paulista is well known as a leader of a political movement called Corinthians Democracy (Portuguese: Democracia Corinthiana) and became a symbol against the military dictatorship happening at the time in the country in the 1980s. Claiming for an electoral democracy, every decision made by the club was done by voting by the squad players with the consent of the board of directors. Footballer Sócrates is considered one of the leaders of the movement,this movement is reemerging as the political party, the CORINTHIAN NATIONAL PARTY (Portuguese: Partido Nacional Corinthiano - PNC), in which its leader and President is Juan Antonio Moreno Grangeiro.\n\nIn Israel, Beitar Jerusalem are infamously known for their Jewish nationalism, particularly against the first Arab-Israeli team to win the national cup, Bnei Sakhnin; conversely Maccabi Haifa is known for its cross-community support, particularly in its support by Arabs. In the women's game, Hapoel Petah Tikva have recruited Arab players.\n\nIn Scotland, the Old Firm rivalry between Glasgow-based clubs Celtic F.C. and Rangers F.C. is politically tinged along sectarian lines with Roman Catholics in Scotland and Ireland supporting the former and Protestant, mainly Presbyterians, supporting the latter. It is arguably elevated by the Northern Ireland conflict.\n\nAthletic Bilbao are famous for the \"cantera\" policy of signing only Basque players. Along with fellow Basque side Real Sociedad, Bilbao raised the still banned Basque flag in a game shortly after the death of General Francisco Franco.\n\nIn France, SC Bastia fans display various symbols of Corsican nationalism at Stade Armand Cesari, like Dio vi Salvi Regina and the \"Testa di Moro\" on the club crest; during 2015 Coupe de la Ligue Final held in the Stade de France 30.000 Corsicans sang chants in their own dialect, similar to Sardinian dialect. \nStade Rennais fans of Roazhon Celtic Kop display and are inspired by Breton Nationalism : Bro Gozh ma Zadoù is played before every match.\n\nNorway declined to take part in the 1957 Bandy World Championship because the Soviet Union was invited, due to the Soviet invasion of Hungary the year before. The country made a similar protest for the 1969 Bandy World Championship because of the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia that year, handing over the hosting of the 1969 event to Sweden.\n\nUkraine declined to take part in the 2015 Bandy World Championship hosted by Russia because of the Russian annexation of Crimea the year before, since Ukraine still considers Crimea as part of its territory.\n\nHeavyweight champion Max Schmeling had been lauded by the Nazi Party as a heroic symbol of German destiny and Aryan supremacy. A politically charged boxing match with Joe Louis was preceded nationalistic symbolism and imagery. Schmeling defeated Louis, for the latter's first professional defeat in 1936. Langston Hughes recalled the national reaction to Louis' defeat.\nSchmeling was, however, welcomed home with a jubilant reaction. Hitler sent his wife flowers with the message: \"For the wonderful victory of your husband, our greatest German boxer, I must congratulate you with all my heart.\" Schmeling responded to the accolades saying: \"At this moment I have to tell Germany, I have to report to the Führer in particular, that the thoughts of all my countrymen were with me in this fight; that the Führer and his faithful people were thinking of me. This thought gave me the strength to succeed in this fight. It gave me the courage and the endurance to win this victory for Germany's colours.\"\n\nA rematch was scheduled later in New York City. In the build-up to the event U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt offered his support: \"Joe, we need muscles like yours to beat Germany.\" Schmeling's hotel was picketed by American protestors after an accompanying Nazi Party publicist declared that a black man could not defeat Schmeling and that when he won, his prize money would be used to build German tanks. Louis won the rematch in a first round knock out and he became the focal point of anti-Nazi sentiment leading up to World War II. Louis later recalled the pressure on him before the fight: \"I knew I had to get Schmeling good. I had my own personal reasons and the whole damned country was depending me.\"\n\nDecades later, Muhammad Ali took up political causes in his refusal to be drafted for the Vietnam War amid the Civil Rights Movement during the presidency of Lyndon B. Johnson.\n\nAfter earning the championship, Clay converted his religion to Islam, which instigated conflict with his boxing career. He also abandoned his name that was given to his slave ancestors and adopted Muhammad Ali. On April 28, 1967, he refused to serve in the Army during the Vietnam War, stating religious reasons that it goes against the Qur'an's teaching.\n\nHe then became an icon of not only the civil rights struggle, but also the anti-Vietnam War movement.\nHowever he was convicted of draft evasion, sentenced to five years in prison, fined $10,000 and stripped of his championship. It was not until a lawsuit in 1970 that Ali redeemed his title.\nHe would continue in historical boxing matches now known as Rumble in the Jungle in 1974 and Thrilla in Manila in 1975, defeating George Foreman and Joe Frazier, respectively.\n\nChess, which is a recognized sport of the International Olympic Committee, has a history of being linked to political issues. This was particularly true of the 1972 World Championship match between the American Bobby Fischer and Boris Spassky of the Soviet Union. The match took place during the Cold War and the pressure was mounting.\n\nIn 1969, the Marylebone Cricket Club refused to allow Basil D'Oliveira to play for England against South Africa for fear of upseting the apartheid regime. D'Oliveira was a coloured born in South Africa and refused permission to play for the South African team by the government, instead he played for England. D'Oliveria was one of the more likely players to be selected following his performance against Australia in the previous year's Ashes. However, he was not selected; it was suspected at the time that this was capitulation towards the apartheid regime.\n\nCricket has also had a hand to play in sporting diplomacy. Following the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and Soviet pressure on India to deflect the tension they faced, in 1987 Pakistan's president at the time, General Zia ul-Haq, attended a test match between India and Pakistan in Jaipur – a visit that apparently helped cool a flare-up in tensions. Furthermore, following a fifteen-year lull in test matches, cricket tours between India and Pakistan were revived in 2004 in the wake of diplomatic initiatives to bury half a century of mutual hostility. Both sides relaxed their tough visa regulations for each other, allowing thousands of fans to travel across the border.\n\nIn an attempt to replicate the cricket diplomacy of the past General Pervez Musharraf came to India in 2005 ostensibly for a cricket match. The trip, however, quickly took on the air of a summit as the sides were urged \"to seize a historic chance to end their dispute over Kashmir.\" Often this rivalry has been tinged with a religious-political bent to it. A Pakistani fan in Karachi ran onto the pitch to attack the Indian captain, and fans threw stones at the Indian players during the match in Karachi. In 2000 right-wing Hindus dug up the cricket pitch in New Delhi to protest against the Pakistani team's visit. Following the Kargil conflict, and at various other times, there have also been calls to suspend cricketing ties between the two countries.\n\nIn reference to immigrants from the Caribbean and South Asia, British Conservative party member Norman Tebbit once a \"cricket test\" could adjudge a persons loyalty to England by determining whether or not they supported the England and Wales cricket team ahead of those from their own countries of origin.\n\nIn 2008, the England and Wales Cricket Board cancelled Zimbabwe's 2009 tour of England and suspended all bilateral relations between the two states in response to the situation regarding the 2008 Zimbabwean presidential election. MPs Jack Straw and Tessa Jowell wrote to the International Cricket Council asking then to ban Zimbabwe from international cricket.\n\nChina have also gotten in on the cricket diplomacy act. Cross-Strait relations have once again been the impetus for doing so. During the buildup to the 2007 World Cup, Antigua received a $55 million grant to build the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium, while Jamaica received $30 million for a new Trelawny stadium. St. Lucia have also got both a cricket and a football stadium courtesy of China. China spent a remarkable $132 million on cricket facilities in the West Indies over the past few years, a massive amount compared to the International Cricket Council's paltry 10-year budget of $70 million to promote cricket \"globally\". It is said that the motive for China's generosity is because \"Most of the remaining countries that recognize Taiwan are located in the Caribbean and Latin America.\" The diplomacy paid off in the end as Grenada and Dominica derecognized Taiwan as an independent country. Further, \"Of the remaining 24 countries that recognize Taiwan, four are in the Caribbean and two of these play cricket.\" Grenada previously had a stadium built by Taiwan, but saw it flattened by a hurricane. To join the action, China quickly came in to erect another stadium. Consequently, Taiwan took Grenada to a New York City court to force the latter to return the original loan.\n\nPut on the back foot, a beleaguered Taiwan also used the World Cup to shore up its position among its shrinking West Indian support base. It doled out $21 million to St. Kitts and Nevis and $12 million to the even smaller St. Vincent and the Grenadines for cricket grounds. China's aggressive ambitions have benefited the Caribbean Islands as \"Strategic analysts say China is laying out more money than is needed to just isolate Taiwan. China, which has built large embassies in each of the islands, now has a bigger diplomatic presence in the Caribbean than the United States, the superpower next door.\" And that \"Mainland China's long-term strategy coincides with its foreign policy.\"\n\nFollowing the death of Saeed Anwar's daughter he took to a more fundamental Islam and started growing a beard. He was then said to have been the turning point in the Islamisation of the Pakistani cricket team, which was also a reason for Yousuf Youhana's conversion to Islam. From the 2003 World Cup a more visible trend of religion was seen in the Pakistan team with many players having become more devout to the point of either leading prayers or growing beards as a symbol of being a \"good Muslim\" (with the notable exception of Shoaib Akhtar and Danish Kaneria (the latter being the only Hindu on the team)). Even post-match interviews were preceded by Islamic salutations such as \"Bismillah ur Rehman rahim\". Most famously, after the loss to arch-rival India at the 2007 ICC World Twenty20 Shoaib Malik came under fire for apologising \"I want to thank everyone back home in Pakistan and Muslims all over the world. Thank you very much and I’m sorry that we didn’t win, but we did give our 100 per cent\" for the defeat, which was particularly ironic considering Irfan Pathan, a Muslim was named Man of the Match for his performance in India's win, and Shah Rukh Khan was in the stands cheering on India. Following the 2007 World Cup and the loss to Ireland (an unranked cricket team), the religious influence was criticised for taking a toll on the team. The Islamisation of such a Western sport in Pakistan was seen as symbolic of the growing influence of religion in every field. In Pakistan, this trend was attributed to dating back to the tenure of the military government of General Zia-ul Haq where the focus of the youth was shifted from Pakistan as a nation-state and cultural-religious pluralism to Islam as a transnational identity, greater attention to conservative Islamic ritualism, and a perception of a global conspiracy against Muslims and admiration for militancy. A need was also seen to reorient sportsmen towards professionalism, discipline and rules and regulations. It was said that the focus of education and socialisation needed to return to a Pakistan that could not afford to be at war.\n\nIn 2011, India and Pakistan each other in the 2011 Cricket World Cup for the first time since 26/11 attacks in Mumbai and a general souring of relations. The event was spontaneously attended by Prime Ministers Yousaf Raza Gillani of Pakistan and Manmohan Singh of India. Following the game, permission was granted for the two countries to play regular series against each other.\n\nAmid the Bahraini uprising, Avaaz.org called for sports boycotts, comparing the situation in Bahrain with that of apartheid South Africa. Other human rights protesters also called for a boycott of the Bahrain Grand Prix with more explicit comparisons to the sporting boycott of South Africa. On 17 February, it was announced that the second round of GP2 Asia Series, which was to be held at Bahrain International Circuit on 17–19 February, had been cancelled due to security and safety concerns surrounding the protests. On 21 February, the 2011 Bahrain Grand Prix, then to take place on 13 March, was again cancelled because of the same concerns. Similarly, the 2012 Bahrain Grand Prix, which was held amid claims from Bernie Ecclestone that there was no trouble, faced weekly protests and violence leading up to the event.\n\nGoing as far back as the 1936 Olympics, Adolf Hitler used this as a stage to promote Aryan nationalism for Germany with his ideological belief of racial supremacy. The Olympics were used as a method of hardening the German spirit and instilling unity among German youth. It was also believed that sport was a \"way to weed out the weak, Jewish, and other undesirables.\" As a result, many Jews and Gypsies were banned from participating in sporting events. While Germany did top the medal table, the Nazi depiction of ethnic Africans as inferior was dispelled by Jesse Owens' gold medals in the 100m, 200m, 4 × 100 m relay and long jump events. There were questions as to whether Hitler acknowledged Owens' victories. On the first day of competition, Hitler left the stadium after only shaking hands with the German victors. An Olympic committee member then insisted that Hitler either greet every medalist or none at all; he chose the latter. At the games he was visited by Adi Dassler, the founder of Adidas, who offered new shoes to Owens.\n\nOnce again, in 1968, the global stage of the Olympics was used to show the world the plight of the African-American struggle during the civil rights movement in their home country. The famous Black Power salute was performed by Tommie Smith and John Carlos during the medal ceremony in Mexico City. Věra Čáslavská, in protest to the 1968 Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslovakia and the controversial decision by the judges on the Balance Beam and Floor, turned her head down and away from the Soviet flag whilst the anthem played during the medal ceremony. She returned home as a heroine of the Czechoslovak people, but was made an outcast by the Soviet dominated government.\n\nIn 1972, some members of the Israeli Olympic team were killed in an attack by Palestinian Black September gunmen that started at the Olympic village and eventually resulted in the deaths of 11 members of the Israeli Olympic team.\n\nThe Soviet invasion of Afghanistan led to a boycott of the 1980 Moscow Olympics by a numerous Western states and their allies in protest of Russian actions. In the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics the Soviet Bloc led a retaliatory boycott of the games in response to the American-led Moscow games boycott.\n\nFollowing the cancellation of wrestling at the Olympics in the 2010s, traditional political rivals Iran, Russia and the United States joined forces to annul the measure. The U.S. hosted a publicity event in New York City with athletes from all three countries to campaign for its reinstatement.\n\nIn the 1970s an exchange of table tennis players from the United States and the People's Republic of China led to a thaw in Sino-American relations that eventually led to U.S. President Richard Nixon's rapprochement with China.\nIt all began when the Chinese table tennis team invited their U.S. counterparts to their country on an all-expense paid trip during the 1971 World Table Tennis Championships in Japan. \"Time magazine\" termed it: \"The ping heard ‘round the world.'\" On April 10, 1971, the team, and accompanying journalists, became the first U.S. sports delegation to enter and break the information blockade since 1949. Although the U.S. team was defeated by their hosts, in return to Premier Chou En-lai's invitation to more U.S. journalists, the United States government announced that it would lift its 20-year embargo on trade with China.\nA reporter for \"Time\" noted that table tennis was \"an apt metaphor for the relations between Washington and Peking\" and that both state motioned a willingness to adapt to the new initiative. However, it was not until July 15, that Nixon would finally be the first U.S. president to pay a visit to China. Thirty-six years later, a three-day \"Ping-Ping Diplomacy\" event was held at the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum during the week of June 9, 2008. The original members of the U.S. and Chinese teams from 1971 were present to participate at the event.\n\nIn 2008, Israeil tennists Shahar Pe'er, Tzipi Obziler, Andy Ram and Yoni Erlich were supposed to feature in ATP and WTA tournaments in Doha and Dubai, respectively, despite bans on Israeli passport holders from entering both countries. Peer was refused a visa to Dubai the following year following the Gaza War with the organisers saying \"We do not wish to politicise sport but we have to be sensitive to recent events in the whole region and not alienate or put at risk the players or the many tennis fans of different nationalities that we have in the United Arab Emirates.\" The WTA chief executive Larry Scott later reacted saying some \"sanctions\" would be issued on Dubai. She also faced protests following the war during a tournament in New Zealand.\n\nDuring the 2010 US Open tennis tournament India's Rohan Bopanna and Pakistan's Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi reached the men's doubles finals, eliciting responses from political leaders in both countries. Supporters from both countries, including the respective United Nations ambassadors, sat in the stands together. Rashid Malik, Pakistan's Davis Cup coach, said \"The success of their team so far has been a big encouragement for both countries, it will only have a peaceful and positive impact on their people.\" Manohar Singh Gill, India's sports minister, asked \"I have one question for everyone. If Bopanna and Qureshi can play together, why cannot India and Pakistan?\"\n\nThe two were also involved in another campaign promoted by the Monaco-based \"Peace and Sport\" when they wore sweat shirts with slogans reading \"Stop War, Start Tennis.\" They refer to themselves as the \"Indo-Pak Express.\" Such a high-profile collaboration meant this was read as a \"unique\" partnership. Qureshi said \"It just feels like us doing well on the bigger level is getting the message across throughout the world – if me and Rohan can get along so well there's no reason the Indians and Pakistanis can't get along with each other. If even two or three per cent of people say, 'If they can get along why can't we?' that's what we're trying to do. \"They're all mixed together sitting in the crowd. You can't tell who is Pakistani and who is Indian. That's the beauty about sports. Before our pairing you would never see that in any sports, fighting for one cause. It's really good to be part of it.\"\n\nAfter their finals defeat, Qureshi spoke to the crowd to \"say something on behalf of all Pakistanis, [that] every time I come here, there's a wrong perception about the people of Pakistan. They are very friendly, very loving people. We want peace in this world as much as you guys.\" He then made a political appeal to the controversial \"Ground Zero mosque\" saying \"For me, as a Muslim, that's what makes America the greatest country in the world - freedom of religion, freedom of speech. If the mosque is built, I think it's a huge gesture to all the Muslim community out there in the world. I would really appreciate it.\" Indian and Pakistani fans filled the stadium for the final as the two U.N. ambassadors again sat together in the President's Box. Pakistan's ambassador Abdullah Hussain Haroon said \"They've proven that when Indians and Pakistanis get together we can raise fire. I think on a people-to-people basis, they're setting an example that the politicians should follow.\"\n\nMost famously, the sporting boycott of South Africa during Apartheid was said to have played a crucial role in forcing South Africa to open up their society and to end a global isolation. South Africa was excluded from the 1964 Summer Olympics, and many sports' governing bodies expelled or suspended membership of South African affiliates. It was said that the \"international boycott of apartheid sport has been a powerful means for sensitising world opinion against apartheid and in mobilising millions of people for action against that despicable system.\" This boycott \"in some cases helped change official policies.\"\n\nThe South African Table Tennis Board (SATTB), a body founded in contravention to the white South African table tennis board, was replaced for the latter by the International Table Tennis Federation. While the SATTB team was able to participate in the world championships held in Stockholm in 1957, team members were immediately refused passports by the government. It ruled that no black could compete internationally except through the white sports body.\n\nStarted in 1980, the United Nations \"Register of Sports Contacts with South Africa\" – a record of sports exchanges with South Africa and a list of sportsmen who have participated in sports events in South Africa – prove to be an effective instrument to discourage collaboration with apartheid sport. In the 1980s South Africa was also expelled from most international sports bodies. The International Olympic Committee even adopted a declaration against \"apartheid in sport\" on June 21, 1988, for the total isolation of apartheid sport.\n\nThe country's hosting and winning of the 1995 Rugby World Cup was a powerful boost to post-apartheid South Africa's return to the international sporting scene. The 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa also drew similar parallels and questions as to whether race could be overcome, this was especially true following the death of Eugene Terreblanche.\n\nFans of NASCAR are generally considered by the media of the United States to fall within the Republican base as an \"almost exclusively white, conservative racing crowd\", the \"white, middle-aged, working-class Southern men\" who were coveted in the first decades of 21st century during electoral campaigns. Joe Gibbs, a NASCAR team owner, spoke at the 2008 Republican National Convention. Almost 90 percent of political contributions from those affiliated with NASCAR go to Republican candidates. Texas Governor, Rick Perry sponsored 2000 NASCAR Winston Cup Series Champion Bobby Labonte's car for an election campaign in 2010. Labonte was reported to have been paid $225,000 to carry the \"rickperry.org\" logo. Two years later, Rick Santorum sponsored Tony Raines' car. In 2000, then Republican primary candidate Rudy Giuliani made an appearance at the Daytona International Speedway.\n\nA study of elections has shown that the result of sports events can affect the overall results. A study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences showed that when the home team wins the game before the election, the incumbent candidates can increase their share of the vote by 1.5 percent, while a loss had the opposite effect. The study looked at NCAA football games from 1946 to 2008. In addition, the study found that colleges with higher attendance rates had a larger effect on the results, up to 3%. The effects are increased even further if the game is an upset, that is, if the team expected to win does not. Other studies have confirmed these results for other sports, such as baseball and basketball. The study authors concluded that the win made voters feel better about society, boosting votes for the incumbent, while losses made voters feel worse, sending votes to the challenger. There was some speculation that the result of certain games could even decide the 2012 United States presidential election.\n\nIn the United States elections, 2010, at least five former athletes ran on Republican tickets for political office. Chris Dudley took part in his first political race for Governor of Oregon after playing for the Portland Trail Blazers. He also helped persuade former Philadelphia Eagles' Jon Runyan to run for New Jersey's 3rd congressional district against a first-term Democrat John Adler. Shawn Bradley of the Philadelphia 76ers and Dallas Mavericks ran for a seat in Utah's legislature; Keith Fimian, who played for the Cleveland Browns, sought a House seat from Virginia; and former Washington Redskins' Clint Didier sought a Republican nomination for Senate in Washington state. Only Runyan won his election.\n\nBaseball players union boss Don Fehr contributed to the presidential primaries for George W. Bush, Al Gore, Bill Bradley and John McCain. Cincinnati Reds owner Carl Lindner contributed $1.4 million to the Republican party and $1 million to the US Democratic party. Former MLB pitcher Jim Bunning was also a senator once. NFL quarterback Heath Shuler has served as a member of the House of Representatives, as well as Seattle Seahawks receiver Steve Largent and Oklahoma Sooners quarterback J.C. Watts. \nFormer Buffalo Bills quarterback Jack Kemp was a nine term congressman who chaired the House Republican Leadership Conference and served as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under President George H. W. Bush. Kemp was the 1996 Republican candidate for Vice President. \nBill Bradley, who played basketball for the New York Knicks, served three terms in the U.S. Senate representing New Jersey.\n\nOlympic gold medalist Carl Lewis planned to run for office from New Jersey, though his attempt was blocked and he awaited an appeal hearing.\n\nIn 2002, the US State Department initiated a sports exchange programme entitled \"SportsUnited\" to encourage dialogue between children from the ages of 7–17. The programme seeks to bring together international students with their counterparts in the U.S. to establish links with American professional athletes and to expose them to American culture. Another programme encourages U.S. athletes to travel to and learn about foreign cultures and the challenges young people face in other countries. \"SportsUnited\" has partaken in 15 different sports in nearly 70 countries.\n\nNorth Korea's relationships with the international community, especially South Korea, have sometimes been shaped by sports diplomacy. In the 1966 World Cup, North Korea defeated the heavily favored Italian team. Kim Jong-il believed that successful athletics increases the strength of a country, promoted its ideology, brought a country great honor and increased its international reputation. For this reason, this victory has become propaganda used by the North Korean regime to present a reputable country to not only their citizens, but also to the international community as a whole. Although North Korea has not had much success since this victory, North Korea participated in the 2010 World Cup. In addition, North Korea was surrounded by controversy during 2006 World Cup qualifying. Fan violence in Pyongyang after a match with Iran led to North Korea playing a home game in Thailand without any fans.\n\nThe years leading up to, during, and after the 1988 Seoul Olympics played a major role in the development of North Korea. In 1981, Seoul was selected as the host of the 1988 Olympics. Although at first, North Korea did not consider that Seoul being selected as Olympic host was a major issue, it quickly realized that South Korea hosting the Olympics would highlight the growing economic imbalances between North and South Korea. This realization led to a large devotion of time and effort in an attempt to convince the International Olympic Committee to split the Olympic Games between Seoul and Pyongyang. During these discussions, the IOC considered some concessions, only to be rejected by the North Korean regime. This can be seen as a great missed opportunity for North Korea to gain from the Olympic Games.\n\nDuring this time, North Korea's major allies were China, the USSR, and Cuba. While Fidel Castro and Cuba staunchly defended North Korea, both the USSR and China agreed to participate in the games. This major decision strained relationships that were vital to the North Korean economic system. Throughout the history of North Korea, North Korea relied heavily on the foreign aid. The countries that gave the most aid were the USSR and China. For that reason, the strained relationships had a major effect on North Korea. This played a major role in the North Korean isolationist policies of the 1990s. In addition, as a result of the undeniable success of the Seoul Games, the growing gap between these two nations was further put on display.\n\nAs a result of the failed negotiations North Korea engaged in several acts of terrorism. In 1987, in an attempt to destabilize the Olympic Games and instill fear in the international community, a South Korean commercial flight, Korean Air Flight 858 was bombed killing 115 passengers on board. This event did not fulfill its intended purpose and instead further weakened North Korea's international reputation.\n\nNorth Korea, following its unsuccessful effort to sabotage the Seoul Olympics decided to hold the World Festival of Youth and Students in 1989. Coming one year after the most successful Olympics in years, there was large pressure on the North Korean regime to hold a similarly successful event. Although this event brought in 177 countries, the greatest number in its history, it was never seen as a true alternative to the Olympics and did not gain the international visibility that the North Korean government had hoped for. In addition, the cost of the event was a staggering 4 billion dollars and helped further push North Korea into the financial distress that was so prevalent during the 1990s.\n\nThe Arirang Festival, starting in the early 2000s takes place in the Rungrado 1st of May Stadium, the largest stadium in the world holding approximately 150,000 people. Participation in this event is mandatory and the performances are extravagant and impressively choreographed. The Arirang Festival can be broken up into three different parts. The first is a floor show, where thousands of athletes, gymnasts and dancers demonstrate their athletic abilities. The second section uses thousands of North Koreans to create a human mosaic depicting vibrant images of North Korea and North Korean achievements. Finally, the third section is the music that links the performance. Together, these elements present to the international community North Korea's best athletes through a mix of athletics and art. The Arirang Festival draws international tourists and journalists and intends to present a thriving economic nation to the world. Many of the acts in the festival focus on the theme of reunification. Children chant \"how much longer do we have to be divided due to foreign forces\". The 2014 and 2015 Arirang Festivals were canceled and it is unknown if it will return.\n\nNorth Korea and South Korea marched together for the 2000 Sydney Olympics, 2004 Athens Olympics and 2006 Turin Olympics. Plans to walk together for the 2008 Beijing Olympics fell through when principles regarding selection of athletes could not be agreed upon. After the 2008 Beijing Olympics tensions have increased between these two nations.\n\nMany inter-Korean sporting events were held in the 2000s. These events were referred to as unification matches.\n\nThe North Korean leaders understood the importance of sports not only in the international community, but also internally. The major ideology in North Korea, Juche, has been solidified through the Communist Party's use of sports. The North Korea regime believed that by supporting the increases in sport, the North Korean people would overall be more fit. This would allow the people to be more useful in the revolutionary struggle. For this reason, it was important to start athletics young. In fact, training in physical sport was mandatory during schooling. In the 2000s, major sporting events were being broadcast throughout North Korea, and these events are still being used as propaganda tools. Sports have played a vital role in maintaining the power of the ruling class, while at the same time offering opportunities to interact with the international community.\n\nThe most famous incident in Brazilian soccer and politics is Corinthians Democracy. In 1982, Corinthians, a club in São Paulo, held election of the club. Unlike other club elections, the presidency of the club was considered as the “third most important position in the country, after the governorship of Sao Paulo and the presidency of the Republic.” Advertisements through televisions, radio, music etc., that added up to around 500,000 U.S. dollars were used. There were two opposing sides, “Corinthian Democracy” and “Order and Truth”, that contested for the place. “Corinthian Democracy” aimed for political liberation within the club and “Order and Truth” remained in the old system, the oligarchy. Sócrates, the former soccer player, made a statement that he would stay in Corinthians if free election amendment passes. Corinthian Democracy was defeated after the free-elections campaign’s defeat and Socrates went to Florence as a result. \n\nAfter Brazil won the World Cup in 1970, General Emílio Médici’s government declared a national holiday, rewarding each player with the equivalent amount of 18,500 U.S. dollars, tax-free. Medici declared “I identify this victory, achieved in the fraternity of sport, with the ascension of faith in our struggle for national development.”. Opinion Poll in 1970 stated that “90 percent of Brazil’s lower classes identified soccer with the nation.” However, after the victory in 1970, Cláudio Coutinho who was the manager of the national team was given a mission to modernize the Brazilian playing style. Instead of individual skills, teamwork and discipline were emphasized as Medici’s government made efforts to modernize the Brazilian economy.\n\nIn the summer of 2013 as Brazil prepared to host the 2014 FIFA World Cup, protests about an increase in the cost of public transportation broke out. Although started with a small cause, the protests soon expanded to discontents over government’s spending on social welfare. Protestors requested, “hospitals and schools abiding by FIFA standards.” This request was a “reference to FIFA’s high standards of stadium quality” when the country only spends 5 percent of GDP on education in comparison. However, Ronaldo Luís Nazário de Lima, former soccer player for Brazil, stated that “World Cups aren’t made with hospitals”, referring to a disconnect between soccer stadium and spending on social welfare. This tension led up to a spending of US$850 million on security for the World Cup, which was five times higher than the amount spent by South Africa. \n\nAfter the official matches began, political activities, such as protests, reduced until the semi-finals. Brazil, considered as a strong candidate to win the World Cup, lost to Germany 7-1. As Sarah Fellay referred, huge defeat against Germany sparked “a flood of protests across the country.” Through social media and other online formats, Brazilians started to denounce the government publicly, referring to past protests. Não vai ter Copa (there will be no cup), which was a slogan to denounce government’s spending on the World Cup, started to recur on social media. As a result, President Rousseff’s approval ratings fell.\n\nBrazilian Football Confederation, the CBF, has been accused of being under the influence of corruption. U.S. Justice Department investigated CBF former presidents for their corruption. In December 2017, José Maria Marin, former CBF president, was found guilty of taking US$6.5 million in bribes. Marco Polo del Nero, also a former president of CBF, is currently under provisional suspension since December 2017 by FIFA due to investigations on his bribery. The Arena Corinthians, where the opening match of 2014 World Cup was held, was referred in an investigation of Petrobras corruption of “money-laundering operation.” Also, in the construction of Arena das Dunas stadium in Natal, Brazilian investigators found “a total of US$23.4 million was used as a source of bribery.\n\nMore recently Manny Pacquiao was elected to the House of Representatives of the Philippines in 2010 and Vitali Klitschko was elected to the Ukrainian Parliament as leader of the Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform in 2012.\n\nPresident Serzh Sargsyan is also Chairman of the Armenian Chess Federation. Olympic Champion Yurik Vardanyan is an advisor to Sargsyan.\n\nRed Kelly became a Canadian MP while playing for the Toronto Maple Leafs.\n\nFormer cricketer Navjot Singh Sidhu ran three successful campaigns (including a by-election resulting from his own resignation) to become a member of parliament in the Lok Sabha as a Bharatiya Janata Party candidate. In the 2009 general election, former captain Mohammed Azharuddin also won a seat in parliament from outside his home territory. Kirti Azad also won a seat in parliament from Darbhanga, Bihar from the BJP. Sachin Tendulkar was sworn in as a MP in the Rajya Sabha on 4 June 2012, while he was active in the sports field. Olympic gold-medalist Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore joined the BJP. It was said that \"celebrities...are a time-tested tool for the political parties to tide over their bankruptcy.\" Additionally, former cricketer Mohammed Kaif ran as an unsuccessful candidate for the National Congress in the 2014 elections. Former football player Avertano Furtado was also elected as a MLA in Goa. Former hockey player Pargat Singh was also elected as a MLA for the Shiromani Akali Dal.\n\nIn 2013, Wesley Korir, winner of the 2012 Boston Marathon, was elected to the Kenyan National Assembly.\n\nFormer chess player Garry Kasparov also became an opposition activist in his native Russia.\n\nFormer offshore powerboat racer Daniel Scioli became vice-president of Argentina between 2003 and 2007 and is currently the Governor of the Province of Buenos Aires, considered one of the most influential political jobs in Argentina. Carlos Espínola, a windsurfer and Olympic medalist, also entered politics and is, as of 2013, mayor of his native city in Corrientes Province.\nFormer Pakistani cricketer and the captain of the Pakistan cricket team which won the world cup, Imran Khan later created his own political party PTI who is currently the prime minister of Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "57959012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57959012", "title": "Revolutionary Front (Sweden)", "text": "Revolutionary Front (Sweden)\n\nThe Revolutionary Front () was a far-left extremist political and militant movement in Sweden. The goal of the RF was to dismantle the current society through a revolution and create a socialist state. The group fought against fascism, racism, sexism and capitalism, and campaigned through violent means.\n\nThe Revolutionary Front was formed in 2002 by Joel Bjurströmer Almgren and others. In 2014 Almgren was sentenced to five years in prison for stabbing a neo-Nazi in the back during the violent December 2013 Stockholm riots. In September 2015 the organisation dissolved.\n"}
{"id": "44449911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44449911", "title": "Right2Water", "text": "Right2Water\n\nRight2Water is a campaign to commit the European Union and Member States to implement the human right to water and sanitation.\n\nIt has three stated goals: \n\nOn the 21 March 2013, it became the first European Citizens' Initiative to collect more than a million signatures and they reached the minimum quota of signatures in seven countries on the 7 May 2013. It stopped the signature collection on the 7 September 2013, with a total of 1,857,605 signatures. The initiative was submitted to the European Commission in December 2013 and the public hearing took place on the 17 February 2014 at the European Parliament. In March 2014, the Commission has adopted the Communication in response to the Right2Water initiative. On the 1 July 2015 the Roadmap for the evaluation of the Drinking Water Directive has been published by the European Commission.\n\nIn response, the European Parliament criticised the Commission for failing the meet the initiative's demands. The report by Sinn Féin MEP Lynn Boylan called on the Commission \"to recognise that affordable access to water is a basic human right.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "50325101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50325101", "title": "Sabah Chinese Party", "text": "Sabah Chinese Party\n\nThe Sabah Chinese Party or (PCS) is a minor party which was formed in 1980 to represent the Chinese community in Sabah.\n\n"}
{"id": "6358522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6358522", "title": "Second Malón de la Paz", "text": "Second Malón de la Paz\n\nThe Second Malón de la Paz was a protest march of aboriginals of northwestern Argentina, demanding the restitution of their ancient lands. It started on 7 August 2006 in the province of Jujuy.\n\n\"Malón\" is a word derived from Mapudungun and refers to a surprise incursion, as practised by the native tribes attacking creole settlements in the past. Therefore the expression means \"Peace Incursion\". The first \"Malón de la Paz\" was a 2,000 km march from Jujuy to Buenos Aires in 1946, to present land and human rights claims to President Juan Perón.\n\nThe Second Malón de la Paz was triggered by the long delay and refusal of the provincial government of Jujuy to comply with a judicial order granting the indigenous communities 15,000 km² of land. An assembly of members of different communities gathered in Abra Pampa, 200 km north of San Salvador de Jujuy (the same place where, 60 years before, the first Malón started). Following the resolutions of the assembly, a number of delegates from the communities scattered around the province marched from the Quebrada de Humahuaca to Purmamarca (60 km north of the provincial capital).\n\nAfter a new assembly, on 8 August around 1,000 people blockaded National Routes 16 and 9, and demanded to be heard by governor Eduardo Fellner. The blockade is slated to last indefinitely.\n\nThe first Malón de Paz was not well received by the national government. Although the marchers got the attention and support of the people in the way, as well as formal acknowledgment by President Perón, they were soon expelled from Buenos Aires empty-handed. Only three years later, in 1949, the national government expropriated some lands to be granted to the indigenous communities, but the cession was never performed.\n\nThe 1994 reform of the Argentine Constitution recognized the rights of the \"originary peoples\" to own their ancient lands. According to the delegates of the communities, in 1996 the national government started sending funds to Jujuy to handle the surveys and paperwork needed to make the lands property of the originary communities, but only 7 out of 123 collective property titles have been granted to them.\n\nOn 2 May 2003, justice ordered that the papers had to be delivered within no more than 15 months. The provincial government appealed the decision. The originary communities were displeased by this, and sent a letter to President Néstor Kirchner. The drastic measure of blocking national roads was called by the press \"an ultimatum\" to the provincial authorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5112304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5112304", "title": "Shadow Conspiracy", "text": "Shadow Conspiracy\n\nShadow Conspiracy is a 1997 American political thriller film starring Charlie Sheen, Donald Sutherland, Linda Hamilton and Sam Waterston. It was the final film directed by George P. Cosmatos, who died in 2005. The film was poorly received by critics. It was released on DVD in the United States in November 2003 by Buena Vista Home Entertainment.\n\nSet in Washington, this film documents an attempted power grab by White House Chief of Staff Jacob Conrad (Donald Sutherland). Bobby Bishop (Charlie Sheen) is a special aide to the President of the United States (Sam Waterston) who finds out about a plot to assassinate the President from a former professor (Theodore Bikel). Bobby's old professor is murdered shortly thereafter and Bobby is left to try to uncover the conspiracy on his own. He recruits his journalist friend Amanda Givens (Linda Hamilton) to help him uncover the mystery and stop the assassination.\n\n\n\"Shadow Conspiracy\" was filmed in 19 days, with most of the principal photography taking place in Richmond, Virginia, Georgetown, Washington and Baltimore, Maryland.\n\n\"Shadow Conspiracy\" received negative reviews from critics, with Rotten Tomatoes giving the film a 0% rating. The film did not fare well at the box office, grossing a little over $2 million domestically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30863822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30863822", "title": "Solar water disinfection", "text": "Solar water disinfection\n\nSolar water disinfection (SoDis) is a type of portable water purification that uses solar energy to make biologically-contaminated (e.g. bacteria, viruses, protozoa and worms) water safe to drink. Water contaminated with non-biological agents such as toxic chemicals or heavy metals require additional steps to make the water safe to drink.\n\nSolar water disinfection is usually accomplished using some mix of electricity generated by photovoltaics panels (solar PV), heat (solar thermal), and solar ultraviolet light collection.\n\nSolar disinfection using the effects of electricity generated by photovoltaics typically uses an electric current to deliver electrolytic processes which disinfect water, for example by generating oxidative free radicals which kill pathogens by damaging their chemical structure. A second approach uses stored solar electricity from a battery, and operates at night or at low light levels to power an ultraviolet lamp to perform secondary solar ultraviolet water disinfection.\n\nSolar thermal water disinfection uses heat from the Sun to heat water to 70–100 °C for a short period of time. A number of approaches exist here. Solar heat collectors can have lenses in front of them, or use reflectors. They may also use varying levels of insulation or glazing. In addition, some solar thermal water disinfection processes are batch-based, while others (through-flow solar thermal disinfection) operate almost continuously while the Sun shines. Water heated to temperatures below 100 °C is generally referred to as Pasteurized water.\n\nThe ultraviolet part of sunlight can also kill pathogens in water. The SODIS method uses a combination of UV light and increased temperature (solar thermal) for disinfecting water using only sunlight and PET plastic bottles. SODIS is a free and effective method for decentralized water treatment, usually applied at the household level and is recommended by the World Health Organization as a viable method for household water treatment and safe storage. SODIS is already applied in numerous developing countries. Educational pamphlets on the method are available in many languages, each equivalent to the English-language version.\n\nExposure to sunlight has been shown to deactivate diarrhea-causing organisms in polluted drinking water. The inactivation of pathogenic organisms is attributed to: the UV-A (wavelength 320–400 nm) part of the sunlight, which reacts with oxygen dissolved in the water and produces highly reactive forms of oxygen (oxygen free radicals and hydrogen peroxides) that damage pathogens, while it also interferes with metabolism and destroys bacterial cell structures; and simultaneously the full band of solar energy (from infrared to UV) heats the water.\n\nAt a water temperature of about , a threshold solar irradiance of at least 500 W/m (all spectral light) is required for about 5 hours for SODIS to be efficient. This dose contains energy of 555 Wh/m in the range of UV-A and violet light, 350–450 nm, corresponding to about 6 hours of mid-latitude (European) midday summer sunshine.\n\nAt water temperatures higher than , synergistic effects of UV radiation and temperature further enhance the disinfection efficiency. Above , the bacterial count drops three times faster.\n\nGuides for the household use of SODIS describe the process.\n\nColourless, transparent PET water or soda bottles of 2 litre or smaller size with few surface scratches are selected for use. Glass bottles are also suitable. Any labels are removed and the bottles are washed before the first use. Water from possibly-contaminated sources is filled into the bottles, using the clearest water possible. Where the turbidity is higher than 30 NTU it is necessary to filter or precipitate out particulates prior to exposure to the sunlight. \nFilters are locally made from cloth stretched over inverted bottles with the bottoms cut off. In order to improve oxygen saturation, the guides recommend that bottles be filled three-quarters, shaken for 20 seconds (with the cap on), then filled completely, recapped, and checked for clarity.\nThe filled bottles are then exposed to the fullest sunlight possible. Bottles will heat faster and hotter if they are placed on a sloped Sun-facing reflective metal surface. A corrugated metal roof (as compared to thatched roof) or a slightly curved sheet of aluminum foil increases the light inside the bottle. Overhanging structures or plants that shade the bottles must be avoided, as they reduce both illumination and heating. After sufficient time, the treated water can be consumed directly from the bottle or poured into clean drinking cups. The risk of re-contamination is minimized if the water is stored in the bottles. Refilling and storage in other containers increases the risk of contamination.\n\nThe most favorable regions for application of the SODIS method are located between latitude 15°N and 35°N, and also 15°S and 35°S. These regions have high levels of solar radiation, with limited cloud cover and rainfall, and with over 90% of sunlight reaching the earth's surface as direct radiation. The second most favorable region lies between latitudes 15°N and 15°S. these regions have high levels of scattered radiation, with about 2500 hours of sunshine annually, due to high humidity and frequent cloud cover.\n\nLocal education in the use of SODIS is important to avoid confusion between PET and other bottle materials. Applying SODIS without proper assessment (or with false assessment) of existing hygienic practices & diarrhea incidence may not address other routes of infection. Community trainers must themselves be trained first.\n\nSODIS is an effective method for treating water where fuel or cookers are unavailable or prohibitively expensive. Even where fuel is available, SODIS is a more economical and environmentally friendly option. The application of SODIS is limited if enough bottles are not available, or if the water is highly turbid. In fact, if the water is highly turbid, SODIS cannot be used alone; additional filtering is then necessary.\n\nA basic field test to determine if the water is too turbid for the SODIS method to work properly is the newspaper test. For the newspaper test the user has to place the filled bottle upright on top of a newspaper headline and look down through the bottle opening. If the letters of the headline are readable, the water can be used for the SODIS method. If the letters are not readable then the turbidity of the water likely exceeds 30 NTU, and the water must be pretreated.\n\nIn theory, the method could be used in disaster relief or refugee camps. However, supplying bottles may be more difficult than providing equivalent disinfecting tablets containing chlorine, bromine, or iodine. In addition, in some circumstances, it may be difficult to guarantee that the water will be left in the sun for the necessary time.\n\nOther methods for household water treatment and safe storage exist (e.g., chlorination) different filtration procedures or flocculation/disinfection. The selection of the adequate method should be based on the criteria of effectiveness, the co-occurrence of other types of pollution (turbidity, chemical pollutants), treatment costs, labor input and convenience, and the user’s preference.\n\nWhen the water is highly turbid, SODIS cannot be used alone; additional filtering or flocculation is then necessary to clarify the water prior to SODIS treatment. Recent work has shown that common table salt (NaCl) is an effective flocculation agent for decreasing turbidity for the SODIS method in some types of soil. This method could be used to increase the geographic areas for which the SODIS method could be used as regions with highly turbid water could be treated for low costs.\n\nSODIS may alternatively be implemented using plastic bags. SODIS bags have been found to yield as much as 74% higher treatment efficiencies than SODIS bottles, which may be because the bags are able to reach elevated temperatures that cause accelerated treatment. SODIS bags with a water layer of approximately 1 cm to 6 cm reach higher temperatures more easily than SODIS bottles, and treat Vibrio cholerae more effectively. It is assumed this is because of the improved surface area to volume ratio in SODIS bags. In remote regions plastic bottles are not locally available and need to be shipped in from urban centers which may be expensive and inefficient since bottles cannot be packed very tightly. Bags can be packed more densely than bottles, and can be shipped at lower cost, representing an economically preferable alternative to SODIS bottles in remote communities. The disadvantages of using bags are that they can give the water a plastic smell, they are more difficult to handle when filled with water, and they typically require that the water be transferred to a second container for drinking.\n\nAnother important benefit in using the SODIS bottles as opposed to the bags or other methods requiring the water to be transferred to a smaller container for consumption is that the bottles are a point-of-use household water treatment method. Point-of-use means that the water is treated in the same easy to handle container it will be served from, thus decreasing the risk of secondary water contamination.\n\nIf the water bottles are not left in the Sun for the proper length of time, the water may not be safe to drink and could cause illness. If the sunlight is less strong, due to overcast weather or a less sunny climate, a longer exposure time in the Sun is necessary.\n\nThe following issues should also be considered:\n\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, more than two million people per year die of preventable water-borne diseases, and one billion people lack access to a source of improved drinking water.\n\nIt has been shown that the SODIS method (and other methods of household water treatment) can very effectively remove pathogenic contamination from the water. However, infectious diseases are also transmitted through other pathways, i.e. due to a general lack of sanitation and hygiene. Studies on the reduction of diarrhea among SODIS users show reduction values of 30–80%.\n\nThe effectiveness of the SODIS was first discovered by Aftim Acra, of the American University of Beirut in the early 1980s. Follow-up was conducted by the research groups of Martin Wegelin at the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology (EAWAG) and Kevin McGuigan at the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. Clinical control trials were pioneered by Ronan Conroy of the RCSI team in collaboration with Michael Elmore-Meegan.ICROSS\n\nA joint research project on SODIS was implemented by the following institutions:\n\nThe project embarked on a multi-country study including study areas in Zimbabwe, South Africa and Kenya.\n\nOther developments include the development of a continuous flow disinfection unit and solar disinfection with titanium dioxide film over glass cylinders, which prevents the bacterial regrowth of coliforms after SODIS.\n\nResearch has shown that a number of low-cost additives are capable of accelerating SODIS and that additives might make SODIS more rapid and effective in both sunny and cloudy weather, developments that could help make the technology more effective and acceptable to users. A 2008 study showed that powdered seeds of five natural legumes (peas, beans and lentils)—\"Vigna unguiculata\" (cowpea), \"Phaseolus mungo\" (black lentil), \"Glycine max\" (soybean), \"Pisum sativum\" (green pea), and \"Arachis hypogaea\" (peanut)—when evaluated as natural flocculants for the removal of turbidity, were as effective as commercial alum and even superior for clarification in that the optimum dosage was low (1 g/L), flocculation was rapid (7–25 minutes, depending on the seed used) and the water hardness and pH was essentially unaltered. Later studies have used chestnuts, oak acorns, and \"Moringa oleifera\" (drumstick tree) for the same purpose.\n\nOther research has examined the use of doped semiconductors to increase the production of oxygen radicals under solar UV-A. Recently, researchers at the National Centre for Sensor Research and the Biomedical Diagnostics Institute at Dublin City University have developed an inexpensive printable UV dosimeter for SODIS applications that can be read using a mobile phone. The camera of the phone is used to acquire an image of the sensor and custom software running on the phone analyses the sensor colour to provide a quantitative measurement of UV dose.\n\nIn isolated regions the effect of wood smoke increases lung disease, due to the constant need for building fires to boil water and cook. Research groups have found that boiling of water is neglected due to the difficulty of gathering wood, which is scarce in many areas. When presented with basic household water treatment options residents in isolated regions in Africa have shown a preference for the SODIS method over boiling or other basic water treatment methods.\n\nThe Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology (EAWAG), through the Department of Water and Sanitation in Developing Countries (Sandec), coordinates SODIS promotion projects in 33 countries including Bhutan, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, DR Congo, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Laos, Malawi, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Perú, Philippines, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Togo, Uganda, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.\n\nSODIS projects are funded by, among others, the SOLAQUA Foundation, several Lions Clubs, Rotary Clubs, Migros, and the Michel Comte Water Foundation.\n\nSODIS has also been applied in several communities in Brazil, one of them being Prainha do Canto Verde, Beberibe west of Fortaleza. Villagers there using the SODIS method have been quite successful, since the temperature during the day can go beyond and there is a limited amount of shade.\n\nOne of the most important things to consider for public health workers reaching out to communities in need of suitable, cost efficient, and sustainable water treatment methods is teaching the importance of water quality in the context of health promotion and disease prevention while educating about the methods themselves. Although skepticism has posed a challenge in some communities to adopt SODIS and other household water treatment methods for daily use, disseminating knowledge on the important health benefits associated with these methods will likely increase adoption rates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40330714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40330714", "title": "Song of Happiness", "text": "Song of Happiness\n\n\"The Song of Happiness for the Great Leader\" is a triumphal entrance march used to accompany the arrival of the paramount leaders of North Korea at public appearances. In effect it is solely reserved for members of the ruling Kim dynasty.\n\n"}
{"id": "30637450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30637450", "title": "St. George Society of Philadelphia", "text": "St. George Society of Philadelphia\n\nThe Society of the Sons of St. George, established at Philadelphia for the advice and assistance of Englishmen in distress, was founded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on Saint George's Day, April 23, 1772. Earlier meetings were reportedly held at Tun Tavern.\n\nThe society's charter in its act of incorporation approved by the Pennsylvania assembly on April 6, 1791, states: \"To all to whom these presents shall come, Greeting, know ye that we whose names are hereunto subscribed, being citizens of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, having associated for the purpose of establishing in Philadelphia, a society for the advice and assistance of Englishmen, in distress, and being desirous of acquiring and enjoying the powers, and immunities of a corporation or body politic in law, according to an act of assembly of the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, passed the sixth day of April, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, do hereby declare, that we have associated ourselves together for the purpose aforesaid, by the name, stile, and title, and under the articles and conditions following, that is to say: Article I. That the name style and title of this corporation, shall be \"The Society of the Sons of St. George, established at Philadelphia, for the advice and assistance of Englishmen in distress.\"\n\nThe seal of the society was described in the act of incorporation as a shield bordered with thirteen stars, on which is depicted Saint George slaying the dragon, with the eye of Providence beaming upon him, and on a wreath above, a young phoenix rising from the flames. The motto on the upper edge was \"The Seal of St. George's Society, Philadelphia,\" around the bottom edge, \"I was a stranger, and ye took me in,\" and over the crest \"Add to brotherly love, charity.\"\n\nThe Society’s founding meeting was held at Byrne's Tavern, on Front Street, below Walnut Street. The first officers elected at the organizational meeting were: President, The Rev. Richard Peters, D.D., Rector of Christ Church; Vice-President, Mr. Robert Morris; Treasurer, Mr. Daniel Rundle; Secretary, Mr. Richard Peters, Jr.; Stewards, Mr. Richard Footman, Mr. Thomas Foxcroft, William Parr, Esq., Dr. John Kearsley; and Messenger, John Airey. The society carried out its charitable mission through the American Revolution and the War of 1812.\n\nIn 1876, the club bought the Philadelphia mansion of tycoon Matthew Newkirk at 13th and Arch Streets, renamed it \"St. George's Hall\", and used it as their headquarters until the building was torn down in 1903.\n\nIn the 1900s, the society provided support to British war brides in World War I and World War II.\n\nThe Society was identical to the \"Society of Englishmen, and Sons of Englishmen, Established at Philadelphia, for the Advice and Assistance of Englishmen in Distress\" which met at Carpenters' Hall on St. George’s Day, April 23, 1773.\n"}
{"id": "50444975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50444975", "title": "The Organization of Amputees UDAS Republike Srpske", "text": "The Organization of Amputees UDAS Republike Srpske\n\nThe Organization of Amputees Republike Srpske (UDAS) (Serbian: Организација Aмпутираца УДАС Републике Српске/ Organizacija amputiraca ”UDAS” Republike Srpske) is registered as a nonprofit organization and non-governmental organization based in Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina, founded by amputees which are mostly landmine victims in order to provides support for victims of landmines, unexploded ordnance (UXO), cluster munition and other persons with disabilities and their families to integrate them back into the community, thus enabling them to live normal lives. \n\nOrganization of Amputees UDAS Republike Srpske is intended to protect and promote rights of disabled population regardless of type and manner of acquiring disability. The UDAS provides assistance primarily to survivors and their families, as well as other people with disabilities with various types of projects and activities: peer support, referrals, social and economic inclusion activities, legal advising, survivors and disability rights campaign, disability arts and disabled sports.\nThe UDAS maintains partnership with numbers of local and regional organizations that are supporting people with disabilities and, or organizations which are working on landmine cleansing. In addition to that, UDAS has partnerships with the city of Banja Luka and Ministries on both levels: Republic of Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina. UDAS participated and,or created various numbers of projects and activities supported by local, republican and state government, as well as USAID, EU and Norwegian Embassy in Sarajevo.\n\nThe organization covers the entire area of the Republic of Srpska through five regional associations in Banja Luka, Doboj, Bijeljina, Istocno Sarajevo and Trebinje. It has around 4500 members, mostly victims of the mines and cluster munitions in BiH. The leaders of the UDAS are the survivors themselves. UDAS is a member of KOMA coaliction(Coalition for marginalized groups) and ICBL-CMC coaliction.\n\nIn order to meet the basic needs of amputees (civilian and military) and other people with disability, UDAS is founded in 2002. by mostly landmine victims. In the beginning, UDAS had a lot of educational support from former local non-governmental organization ‘Landmine Survivors Initiatives’ (LSI). The organization began as 'The Association of Amputees UDAS Srpske' but later became 'The Organization of Amputees UDAS of Republic of Srpska'. In 2006 due to gained achievements and support given to persons with disabilities Government of Republic of Srpska declared Udas as an organisation of public interest.\n\nDuring the 1992–95 Bosnian war, an estimated two million landmines were planted. Majority of locations of the landmines were not thoroughly mapped out and documented. This lack of documentation has complicated the demining process. Beside that, Bosnia’s mountainous and densely forested territory pose a major impediment to the demining process, as the best mechanical methods for demining only work on flat land. Thus, the demining process has largely been done by hand, an assuredly slow and laborious undertaking As a result of it Bosnia and Herzegovina is still one of the most mine contaminated countries in South Easter Europe region. Current size of mine suspected area in BiH covers 1,165 km2 or 2.3% of the total country size, with 1,417 affected communities, directly impacting the safety of about 538,500 people, or about 15% of the total country population. Cluster munition suspect area is 8.76 km2. An estimated 120,000 mines remain, according to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Mine Action Centre(BHMAC). For the period 1992–2013, BHMAC recorded a total of 8,319 mine/UXO casualties: 1,833 killed, 6,039 survivors, and 447 unknown. In many cases, one or more limbs had to be amputated. Than number keeps growing every year. Ten people were involved in land mine accidents in January 2014 alone, including a ten-year-old boy who died in an explosion.\n\nIn May 2014, BiH was severely affected by the worst Balkan flood in over a century. Almost one third of Bosnia is affected by floods with houses, roads and railway lines being submerged in the north eastern part of the country. One million people – approximately a quarter of the population – have been affected by the floods. Around of 70 percent of the flood-affected zones were in areas contaminated by mines. Bosnian authorities reported that the floods had moved mines, cluster munitions, and unexploded ordnance (UXO), and had damaged minefield fencing and signs. At an ammunition depot in Orašje, some 250 tons of ammunition were reported as being under water on 25 May 2014. Landmine Survivors Initiatives reported that more than 3,000 mine survivors were living in the flood-affected region.\n\nThe UDAS is constantly working to improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities. UDAS actively organizes and participate in a range of innovative projects and activities together with organizations that focus on inclusion of people with disabilities. These activities projects cover community life, healthcare, employment, legislation, art and healthy lifestyle.\n\nIn cooperation with Institute for physical medicine and rehabilitation “Dr Miroslav Zotović”, UDAS provides an individual and group peer to support people with disabilities, organizes educational seminars on topic of healthcare and social welfare, psychological counseling for disabled war veterans, amputees and mine victims. All activities are led by professional associates, doctors and specialists. Also, in co-operation with Family Medicine Service, UDAS offers referrals for CBR centers.\n\nLandmine contamination in B&H has a significant impact on its economy. In particular branch of tourism, hunting and fishing, agriculture, animal husbandry as well as a safe use of natural resources. As a result of post-war unprosperous economy, persons with disabilities on average as a group experience worse socioeconomic situation, having to face at the same time with unemployment and prejudges especially about their employment. People with disabilities in BiH live below the poverty threshold. As a result of it persons with disabilities are usually been perceived as charity case.\n\nIn order to fight poverty, main economic strategy of UDAS is to increase the income of persons with disabilities, through improvement of employment and self-employment opportunities. To do so, UDAS in co-operation with relevant foundations and/or institutions provides support in Informal sector to people with disabilities to start up or expand small businesses (primarily in breach of livestock and agriculture), which will be run by themselves or their families. Beside that, UDAS organised various educational and business seminars, workshops, and consulting.\n\nWhen it comes to various sectors of public policy, disability is an often misunderstood and stigmatized condition.For that reason, UDAS's leadership takes particular interest in implementation of advocacy, social policies and legislation for persons with disabilities.\nAs a disability right organisation, UDAS in co-operation with Ministries and Services worked on drafting, improvement, practical implementation and adjustment of existing laws and regulations with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Outcome of combine actions was on the creation of the Soldiers’ Rights Act, Pension and Disability Insurance Act and Social Protection Act.UDAS as well, mounted activities to train individuals with disabilities about their new rights.\n\nUDAS offers to persons with disability a legal support in terms of legal counseling, references and writing acts to relevant institutions.\n\nThrough cultural activities, primarily through disability arts UDAS want to create a network of local and regional artists to highlight the barriers faced by persons with disabilities and promote the creative potential of artists on the local, national and regional level.\n\nUDAS organizes various cultural and creative projects and activities for persons with and without disabilities, such as: drawing school and painting for children,workshop in creative writing, graphic workshops, art colonies, individual and collective exhibitions of art works, where priority is given to persons with disabilities. All activity have a clear psycho therapeutic aspect. Main cultural activity is doing art and handcraft. \n\nThe organization has art gallery ‘Udas', that is unique gallery in the Southeast Europe because it provides an opportunity for young students of the Academy of Fine Arts, aspiring artists and artists with and without disabilities to showcase their artwork, free of charge. Beside gallery, UDAS owns graphic workshop. Art Gallery 'Udas' is only place in Bosnia and Herzegovina where persons with disability have opportunity showcase their art work. Within the gallerie UDAS shows documentaries and movies that are associated directly or indirectly with the present time and situation in society, free of charge. Projections is led by dramaturge, who after the presentation with participants and discuss and analyze the theme the movie.\n\nSince a healthful lifestyles is one of most important segments of rehabilitation, the UDAS encourages and supports persons with disabilities (primary amputees) to participation in sport activities, to develop confidence, independence and general health. In keeping with that UDAS financially supports The Shooting Club of amputees ‘Borac’ Banja Luka through projects and individuals through one-off aid, so amputees could participate in disabled sports. Beside that UDAS regularly organizes sections in chess,badminton and table tennis. All sports sections are led by persons who are trained to work with disabled people.\n"}
{"id": "11544778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11544778", "title": "Three-Year Plan", "text": "Three-Year Plan\n\nThe Three-Year Plan of Reconstructing the Economy () was a centralized plan created by the Polish communist government to rebuild Poland after the devastation of the Second World War. The plan was carried out between 1947 to 1949. It succeeded in its primary aim of largely rebuilding Poland from the devastation of the war, as well as in increasing output of Polish industry and agriculture.\n\nPoland suffered heavy losses during World War II. In addition to significant population losses, it suffered catastrophic damage to its infrastructure during the war; the losses in national resources and infrastructure amounted to over 30% percent of pre-war potential. Rebuilding of the economy was also made more difficult by the major territorial changes of Poland after World War II.\n\nThe Three-Year Plan was developed and monitored by the Central Planning Office (\"Centralny Urząd Planowania\"), a body of the government tasked with creation of economic policy, and in the early years dominated by a more liberal Polish Socialist Party (PPS) faction. Among the economists involved in its development was the then CUP director, Czesław Bobrowski. CUP centralized planning for the entire Polish economy was previously broken into separate bodies working on planning for separate branches.\n\nThe plan, significantly influenced by the PPS, was designed to create a balance between the private sector, the public sector and the cooperatives. Instead of ideology, commonly stressed by later communist plans, it concentrated on the realistic problems and ways to address them.\n\nOn 21 September 1946 the State National Council (KRN), a Polish communist-dominated unelected Polish parliament accepted the plan for the Polish economy up to 1949. On 2 July 1947 the newly elected Sejm declared that: \"The primary goal of the national economy in the years 1947-1949 is to raise the living conditions of working classes to above the pre-war levels.\"\n\nThe plan as described by the above bodies was designed to develop industry and service sectors, foreign trade and ensure the supply of basic consumer items. The plan specified the size of industrial and agricultural production to be achieved in the following years. In 1949 both the industrial and agricultural productions were to be above the pre-war levels. The industrial output was also to be higher than agricultural output. The plan did not involve creation of new industrial centers, only the rebuilding of the old ones (unless they were over 50% destroyed).\n\nDue to the dedication of substantial resources to industrial rebuilding, and the successful adoption of the Stakhanovite movement (the communist propaganda of that time created a new \"hero of the working class\", Wincenty Pstrowski), where workers were encouraged to work above their quota, the expected increase in industrial output was reached ahead of schedule. However, the agricultural output did not increase as much as predicted, partially due to bad weather in 1947, partially due to inefficiencies involved in collectivization of farming and finally, partially due to side-effects of the battle for trade, which damaged traditional supply chains. In 1948 industrial production was 30% higher compared to 1939, but agricultural production was 30% lower (compared to the 1934-38 period).\n\nThe battle for trade, pushed for by Stalinist hardliners like Hilary Minc, suggested that both the cooperative and private sectors should be eliminated and the public sector should be dominant, assumptions contrary to the foundations of the three-year plan which stated that all three sectors are equal. The battle for trade also resulted in a decrease of the craftmanship sector.\n\nAlready in 1949 the stress was moved from consumer goods to producer goods, and light industry development was slowed. The next plan in the Polish communist economy was the Six-Year Plan (1950–1956), much more critically assessed by modern historians and economists, as by 1950 the CUP and Polish government were dominated by Stalinist hardliners, and PPS economists responsible for creation of the Three-Year Plan were no longer influencing government policy. The Six-Year Plan, designed to bring the economy of Poland in line with the Soviet economy, concentrated on heavy industrialization, with projects such as Nowa Huta.\n\nRebuilding of the Polish economy was also slowed in 1947, as Soviet influence caused the Polish government to reject the American-sponsored Marshall Plan, designed to aid European economies in post-war rebuilding.\n\nWith the simultaneous rebuilding of the cities, substantial migration from rural areas to urban centers occurred, increasing urbanization. Warsaw and other ruined cities were cleared of rubble and rebuilt with great speed during those years. In 1939, 60% of Poles worked in agriculture and 13% in industry; in 1949, the figures were 47% and 21%, respectively.\n\nThe three-year plan is widely considered a success and the only efficient economic plan in the history of People's Republic of Poland. It succeeded in its primary aim: mostly rebuilding Poland from the devastation of the war, as well as in increasing output of Polish industry and agriculture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1982762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1982762", "title": "Trading Standards", "text": "Trading Standards\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Trading Standards are the local authority departments, formerly known as \"Weights and Measures\", that enforce consumer protection legislation.\nSometimes, the Trading Standards enforcement functions of a local authority are performed by part of a larger department which enforces a wide range of other legislation: environmental health, health and safety, licensing and so on. These departments investigate commercial organisations that trade outside the law or in unethical ways. They attempt to remedy breaches by advice or by formal enforcement action.\n\nThey were originally labelled as Weights and Measures Departments because their primary function was to maintain the integrity of commercial weighing and measuring by routine testing of equipment and goods. Other legislation was allocated to them as time went on.\n\nThey now deal with more diverse issues under a wide variety of Acts, Orders and Codes of Practice, as set out by central government, the Food Standards Agency. Such legislation includes the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008, the Consumer Protection Act 1987, the Consumer Credit Act 1974, the Food Safety Act 1990, the Price Marking Order 2004 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Recent priorities include prevention of sales of counterfeit goods, sales of tobacco and alcohol to under-age buyers, and action to prevent exploitation of vulnerable consumers by scams and doorstep crime. In 2017, the Trading Standards of Somerset, Devon and Torbay donated 5000 items of counterfeit clothes to the charity Planet Zero after the clothes were seized and rebranded.\n\n"}
{"id": "44363079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44363079", "title": "Unconditional Divisions", "text": "Unconditional Divisions\n\nThe Unconditional Divisions were elite sub-units of the military forces of the Khmer Rouge regime of Cambodia. Unit members were personally loyal to Pol Pot, and under the direct control of the Central Committee.\n"}
{"id": "466611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=466611", "title": "United Farmers of Ontario", "text": "United Farmers of Ontario\n\nThe United Farmers of Ontario (UFO) was an agrarian and populist provincial political party in Ontario, Canada. It was the Ontario provincial branch of the United Farmers movement of the early part of the 20th century.\n\nThe UFO was founded in 1914 by the union of various farmers' organizations that had been created over the previous fifteen years. James J. Morrison was the leading figure in the party, serving as its general secretary and secretary of the United Farmers Co-operative Company Ltd. (the purchasing co-operative the UFO operated on behalf of its members). The organization grew rapidly and by 1917 it had 350 local clubs and 12,000 members. The UFO had a comprehensive farmer's platform that called for the nationalization of railways, progressive taxation, and legislation that would facilitate the operation of co-operatives. In 1917, supporters of the UFO formed the Farmers' Publishing Company and purchased \"The Weekly Sun\" renaming it \"The Farmer's Sun\" to act as the organ of the UFO.\n\nThe UFO entered politics by contesting and winning a by-election in Manitoulin in 1918, in which Beniah Bowman was elected as the party's first Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA). In the 1919 provincial election, with over 50,000 members, the party sought to hold the balance of power so it could introduce legislation friendly to farmers. It co-operated with the Independent Labour Party with the two organizations not running candidates against each other - the UFO contested rural ridings and the ILP stood candidates in urban areas. In total there were 64 UFO candidates, 20 ILP candidates and 10 Farmer-Labour candidates in the 1919 provincial election. The UFO platform called for the abolition of political patronage, better educational opportunities in rural areas, cheap electric power, conservation of forests, proportional representation and \"direct legislation\". The UFO also favoured prohibition and budgetary restraint, two platform planks that were at odds with the views of urban Labour supporters. To the shock of everyone, including itself, it won 45 seats and formed a coalition government with the support of Labour MLAs in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario despite having no leader.\n\nAs the United Farmers began as a single-issue party, Morrison opposed forming a government, believing that the party should concern itself solely with agricultural issues and that it would not be able to represent the entire province. Furthermore, he viewed the Independent Labour Party as inimical to farmers' interests and opposed a coalition with them to form a majority government. Morrison was offered the position of UFO caucus leader and Premier of Ontario following the election but declined as did Sir Adam Beck; the position instead went Ernest C. Drury.\n\nDespite Morrison's objections, the UFO joined with 10 Independent Labour Party MLAs (an 11th ILP MLA, Morrison MacBride, broke with his colleagues and sat in Opposition) and one Independent to form a coalition government, with Drury as Premier and two of the ILP MLAs in the cabinet. Morrison remained outside of the legislature and government as the general secretary of the UFO. Morrison opposed a number of the coalition's initiatives, perceiving the UFO's actions as a broad-based Progressive government rather than a \"class-based\" United Farmer government and believed that the party should not be in government but should hold the balance of power in order to force the government of the day to pass pro-farmer legislation.\n\nDrury's Farmer-Labour government created the first Department of Welfare for the province and brought in allowances for widows and children, a minimum wage for women and standardized adoption procedures. His government also expanded Ontario Hydro and promoted rural electification, created the Province of Ontario Savings Office - a provincially owned bank that was designed to lend money to farmers at a lower rate - began the first major reforestation program in North America, and began construction of the modern highway system. The government was also a strict enforcer of temperance measures. Drury also arranged for a grant for unknown researchers Frederick Banting and Charles Best who later discovered insulin. The UFO grew quickly to 1,500 clubs and 60,000 members by 1920.\n\nThe government under Drury tried to be a \"people's government\" rather than a \"class government\" and argued for a \"broadening out\" of the party to include labour and others, but in so doing, alienated the base of the government's support, particularly farmers. The UFO government clashed with the UFO organization (led by James J. Morrison) which eventually withdrew its support from the government.\n\nThe party's base of farmer supporters began to turn away from the party, causing the Drury government to lose the election of 1923. Seventeen United Farmer and four Labour members returned to the Legislature, compared to 75 Conservatives. Drury lost his own seat.\n\nThough the United Farmers of Ontario remained the second largest party in the legislature, they were denied Official Opposition status by Conservative premier Howard Ferguson. The position was instead given to the Liberals with W.E.N. Sinclair as Leader of the Opposition, despite the party having three fewer seats than the UFO. Morrison had announced that the UFO would be withdrawing from politics, which Ferguson had used as justification for the move. Manning Doherty, interim leader of the UFO caucus, could do nothing aside from win a ruling from the Speaker that, as leader of a caucus of more than 15 MLAs, he was entitled to an extra salary.\n\nEighteen months following the general election, William Raney was elected unanimously by his caucus as leader of what was now referred to as the \"Progressive\" bloc of MLAs which had begun as Farmer and Labour MLAs. Leslie Oke and Beniah Bowman refused to accept the leadership of Raney, a non-farmer, and also disagreed with the creation of a \"Progressive Party\" which would include non-farmers - with the support of \"The Farmer's Sun\", they insisted on continuing to sit as UFO members rather than with the Progressive group. Bowman resigned from the legislature in 1926 in order to enter federal politics.\n\nThe issue which dominated Ontario politics in the mid 1920s was the Ferguson government's proposal to repeal the \"Ontario Temperance Act\" and replace prohibition with government control of liquor. The Liberals, were split on the issue - most of their MLAs were \"dry\" but some were \"wets\" who were opposed to prohibition. The Progressives under Raney, however, were adamantly in favour of prohibition and opposed to Ferguson's proposals. This led to an estrangement with Labour MLA Karl Homuth who supported Ferguson's proposals and would eventually join the Conservatives.\n\nThe 1926 provincial election reduced the farmer-labour contingent to thirteen Progressive MLAs and one Labour MLA (Homuth - who had broken with the Progressives and supported the government) while two new UFO MLAs, Thomas Farquhar and Farquhar Oliver joined Oke's faction. Several weeks after the election the UFO convention voted to cease running its own candidates though a handful of local UFO clubs continued to nominate candidates for some years.\n\nRaney resigned from the legislature the next year in order to accept an appointment to the Supreme Court of Ontario and 72-year-old John Giles Lethbridge was chosen as the new leader of the Progressives. In the 1929 election, only five Progressives, one Labour and one UFO MLA won re-election. Lethbridge, like Raney in the previous election, campaigned largely on the issue of prohibition. After Lethbridge lost his seat in the 1929 election Harry Nixon, who had served as Provincial Secretary in Drury's government, became the leader of the remaining Progressives. In the early 1930s, Nixon and the Progressives agreed to an alliance with former UFO activist Mitchell Hepburn who, in 1930, became leader of the Liberal Party. A group of four Liberal-Progressive MLAs, led by Nixon, were elected in the 1934 election, who joined Hepburn to form a government and were eventually absorbed into the Liberal Party. \"(see Liberal-Progressives (Ontario) for more information)\"\n\nIn 1932, leading UFO member Agnes Macphail (originally elected to the Progressive Party) encouraged the UFO to affiliate with Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF) when it was formed. It did so, and MacPhail became the first Chairman of the Ontario CCF in 1932, but the UFO disaffiliated from the CCF in 1934 due to allegations of communist influence in the party. The UFO nominated candidates, incumbent MLA Farquhar Oliver and former MLA Leslie Oke, accordingly ran as UFO candidates in the 1934 provincial election rather than as CCFers. The UFO, like United Farmers groups in the provinces of western Canada, decided to withdraw entirely from electoral politics though Oliver and Macphail continued to run under the UFO banner until 1940. Many United Farmers joined the CCF as individuals. The UFO's newspaper, \"The Farmer's Sun\", was sold to Graham Spry and Alan Plaunt and became an organ for the League for Social Reconstruction and the Ontario CCF.\n\nIn the 1935 federal election, the UFO's provincial executive voted to endorse the new Reconstruction Party of Canada formed by H.H. Stevens, however many local UFO groups backed the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation and UFO MP Agnes MacPhail continued to work with the CCF on an informal basis. Other UFOers backed the Liberals. The Reconstruction Party won 11% of the vote in Ontario in the 1935 federal election, more than the CCF, but failed to win a seat in the province and only won one seat nationally.\n\nIn 1936, the UFO, the United Farmers’ Co-operative Ltd., and various growers and other agricultural organizations formed the Ontario Chamber of Agriculture which, in 1940, became the Ontario Federation of Agriculture (OFA), a non-partisan lobbying and marketing organization for farmers. In 1943, the UFO ceased to exist as a formal organization and its remnants were absorbed by the OFA. In 1948 the United Farmers' Co-operative became the United Co-operatives of Ontario and remains one of the largest farmer-owned co-operatives in Canada.\n\nIn 1940, Oliver, the last remaining UFO member of the Legislature and a supporter of the Hepburn government since 1934, joined the Hepburn cabinet and became a Liberal. MacPhail lost her seat as the last United Farmers MP in the House of Commons in the 1940 election. She turned to provincial politics and won election to the Ontario Legislature as a candidate of the CCF in the 1943 provincial election while Oliver became Liberal Party leader in 1945.\n\nAround 1919, the UFO hired Theodore Loblaw to help launch a chain of cooperative grocery stores, but the attempt failed and Loblaw left to start his own grocery chain.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12517724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12517724", "title": "Water export", "text": "Water export\n\nWater exports involve exporting freshwater from one country to another. Large increases in human population and economic growth throughout the world during the twentieth century placed a huge stress on the world’s freshwater resources. Combined with climate change, they will place an even greater demand on water resources in this century. Water shortages have become an international concern, and freshwater has been described as “blue gold” and “the oil of the 21st Century.”\n\nCanada has 7% of the world’s renewable supply of freshwater. Freshwater export between Canada and the US currently takes place at a small scale, mostly as bottled water exports. The bottled water industry exports water in containers usually no larger than twenty litres. But even that can be controversial - the multinational food giant Nestle was accused of attempting to “drain” the town of Hillsburgh, Ontario, of its water in 2012 and 2013, during a drought.\n\nSince 1850 Americans have been diverting much of the water of the Chicago River, which would naturally flow into Lake Michigan, into the Mississippi basin over Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal. In that case, though, the goal was not taking possession of the water that would otherwise end up in the Great Lakes, but directing Chicago's effluent away from Lake Michigan, Chicago's source of water.\n\nMany states in the US have experienced water shortages in the past few decades, creating a market for freshwater that could be profitable for Canada. In the south-western US, growing populations and lifestyles that consume large amounts of water have caused most of the aquifers and rivers in the region to be overused. The water in the Oglala Aquifer, which serves much of the west-central US, was used eight times faster in 2001 than the replenishment rate. Demands for this freshwater are expected to increase as the climate warms.\n\nAs human populations and industries grow and the climate change takes place, greater pressure will be placed on water-rich countries like Canada to export their water to countries that have a water shortage. In early 2014, Gary Doer, Canada’s ambassador to the United States, said that by 2020 the pressure on water quality and quantity would be immense. He predicted that water debates and disputes between the two countries would make the clash over the Keystone XL pipeline “look silly” by comparison.\n\nNumerous proposals about transferring large amounts of freshwater from the Great Lakes Basin into the US have been made. This would involve inter-basin transport of water across the international boundary between Canada and the US using a man-made reservoir. None of these proposals have as yet been implemented, mainly due to environmental and financial obstacles.\n\nSchemes to export water from Canada to the US on a large scale have been proposed in the past. These schemes include:\n\nIn Canada there have been concerns about exporting water to the United States since the 1960s, when states in the south-western US experienced their first water shortages and began to seek water sources to augment their overstretched supplies. Large-scale removal of water from lakes would negatively affect their ecosystems, increasing pollution concentrations and harming plant and animal communities.\n\nWater has been classed as a commodity under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) since the 1980s. This has increased tensions in the debate about exporting water. Although none of the NAFTA rules force Canada to begin to export its water in bulk, if Canada voluntarily decides to begin exports it would be very difficult to later halt them.\n\nIn 2002 the Federal government of Canada passed the International Boundary Waters Treaty Act. This banned the removal of more than 50 million cubic meters of water from a water basin in the Great Lakes in one day. The Boundary Waters Treaty is limited to waters on the Canadian-US border and does not apply to freshwater in other parts of Canada. This means the about 85 percent of Canada’s water is susceptible to export.\n\nSince Canada has taken a strong position against water exports, some companies have shifted their focus to Alaska. Alaska was the first jurisdiction in the world to permit the commercial export of bulk water, and has a large potential for water exports. One scheme proposes transporting water from Alaska to China by tanker. This water would be used to assemble computer wafers by China’s relatively cheap labour force. Computer wafers require extremely pure freshwater. This makes the cost of desalination of saltwater prohibitively expensive, making schemes like this, that would not be profitable for domestic purposes, profitable for industrial purposes.\n\nOn June 13, 2013, the Supreme Court of the United States unanimously upheld lower court rulings in Tarrant Regional Water District v. Herrmann, holding that Oklahoma state water laws validly barred state entities from selling water for out-of-state use, via the Red River Compact among Oklahoma, Texas, Arkansas and Louisiana.\nWhile the Rhine–Main–Danube Canal was primarily built as a freight link across the European Main Watershed (linking North Sea and Black Sea via inland waterways), it is also used to transport water from the Danube to the less water-rich rivers of Franconia and adjacent regions. To this end several artificial lakes like the Großer Brombachsee were created.\n\nArid but densely populated southern Kazakhstan and adjacent Central Asian states occupy somewhat similar position with respect to Russia's Siberia as the south-western United States do with respect to Canada. Siberian rivers, as well as rivers of northern European Russia flow \"uselessly\" into the seas of the Arctic Ocean, while that water could be much more profitably used for irrigated agriculture by Russia's southern neighbors. Not surprisingly, proposals for large-scale transfer of water from the Ob River in Siberia to the Aral Sea basin in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan have been seriously considered by the Soviet federal government already in the 1960-80s, when all republics involved were members of the USSR. While welcomed by many in Central Asian republics, the project received severe criticism from many scientists as well as prominent writers and journalists in Russia, such as Valentin Rasputin and Sergey Zalygin, sometimes known collectively as the \"Siberian environmental lobby\"\n\nShelved in 1986 for both economical and environmental reasons, the idea of international water transfers has been raised again in the 21st century in the ruling circles of the now independent states.\nBoth the Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev and the Uzbek President Islam Karimov expressed interest in such a water transfer scheme. While the Russian federal government so far remains non-committal on the issue, the plan met enthusiastic response from Moscow mayor and Russian presidential hopeful, Yuri Luzhkov.\n\nIn the short run, better allocation of resources and more efficient water conservation technology may keep demand for water in some countries under control. However, a water crisis may occur in the near future that would make bulk water export a more favourable plan.\n\nThe canals that would have to be constructed to transfer water require huge investment and operation costs. This would make the cost for consumers of the water expensive. In contrast, the technology needed to desalinise seawater has improved dramatically and has an acceptable cost for urban markets. Whether or not pressures for large-scale water exports continues to increase depends mostly on future advances in desalination technology. If the cost of desalination drops enough, it will be cheaper to generate freshwater from saltwater than to import freshwater from another country. The cost of desalination is currently less than US$1 per cubic meter. The World Water Commission has suggested that desalination will become the favoured method of procuring drinking and industrial-use waters. However, the need for extremely pure water for particular industrial uses would still require freshwater imports.\n\n\n"}
