{"id": "27434082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27434082", "title": "2010 West Memphis police shootings", "text": "2010 West Memphis police shootings\n\nTwo police officers in West Memphis, Arkansas were shot and killed during a traffic stop on May 20, 2010. Police identified and killed two suspects, identified as Jerry Kane, Jr., and his son, Joseph Kane. The two were later identified as members of the sovereign citizen movement. Footage of the shooting and ensuing shootout with police was shown in a season 5 episode of \"World's Wildest Police Videos\".\n\nAround 11:36 a.m. CDT, West Memphis police officer Bill Evans initiated a traffic stop on a white Plymouth Voyager minivan that was travelling on Interstate 40 eastbound toward Airport Road. According to a spokesperson for the Arkansas State Police, Officer Evans was \"running drug interdiction\", and the vehicle had license plates from Ohio. Sergeant Brandon Paudert provided backup for Evans. Upon Paudert's arrival at the scene, Evans attempted to frisk Jerry Kane.\n\nSuddenly, Kane turned and attacked Evans in a scuffle down an embankment into a ditch. At that moment, Joe Kane emerged from the passenger door of the van and opened fire with an AK-47 variant. Paudert ran to the rear of Evans' police cruiser and returned fire with three shots from his .40-caliber handgun through the windows and taillight of Evans' cruiser, in an attempt to hit Kane firing from the other side. He then took cover behind the hood of his cruiser which was parked directly behind Evans' cruiser. Paudert fired four more times at Kane, but missed. Kane then fired multiple shots from his AK-47 variant through the hood of the car, striking Paudert in the head with a ricochet.\n\nBoth officers were fatally wounded; Paudert, 39, died at the scene, and Evans, 38, died at the hospital. The suspects returned to their van and sped away. A FedEx driver from Houston witnessed the shooting and called 911; neither officer could make an \"officer down\" call.\n\nApproximately 2 hours after the incident, Crittenden County Sheriff Dick Busby and Chief Enforcement Officer W. A. Wren stopped a minivan believed to be the suspects' at a Wal-Mart Supercenter. Officers Busby and Wren were wounded in gunfire exchanged with the suspects and were later hospitalized in critical condition.\n\nWildlife Officer Michael K. Neal, responding to the brief standoff, rammed the suspect's vehicle, preventing their escape and saving the lives of Busby and Wren. Officer Neal exchanged fire with the Kanes through his windshield using his patrol rifle. Dozens of officers then surrounded the van, and the Kanes were shot to death. For his heroics, Officer Neal was awarded Law Enforcement Officer of the Year by the NRA.\n\nThe day after the shootings, Arkansas State Police identified the suspects as 45-year-old Jerry R. Kane, Jr., and his 16-year-old son Joseph T. Kane. Jerry Kane had expressed sentiment against federal and local government online, and was accused of doing the same in person. Kane served three days in jail near Carrizozo, New Mexico for driving without a license and concealing his identity. He posted a $1,500 bond. After that incident, he complained of a \"Nazi checkpoint\". Based on a 2004 conversation with Jerry Kane, Clark County Sheriff Gene Kelly expressed concern that Kane would pose a dangerous threat to law enforcement officers. According to Kelly, Kane had complained about being \"enslaved\" by a judge who had sentenced him to serve six days of community service for driving with an expired license plate and no seat belt. \nAccording to a New York Times article on the incident, Joseph Kane was home schooled and by age 9, could recite the Bill of Rights and carried a toy gun everywhere he went. According to Sherriff Kelly \"the child had been taught not to trust law enforcement.\"\n\nInsurance analyst J. J. MacNab observed that Kane ran a debt evasion business, traveling the country speaking on methods to \"forestalling foreclosures\". Jerry Kane also posted $10,000 bond (which a judge later ordered forfeited) on charges of forgery and attempted grand theft of a motor vehicle filed in Miamisburg, Ohio.\n\nAlthough Kane was arrested in New Mexico, he was never extradited to Ohio.\n\n"}
{"id": "32952970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32952970", "title": "3D Virtual Creature Evolution", "text": "3D Virtual Creature Evolution\n\n3D Virtual Creature Evolution, abbreviated to 3DVCE, is an artificial evolution simulation program created by Lee Graham. The website is currently down. Its purpose is to visualize and research common themes in body plans and strategies to achieve a fitness function of the artificial organisms generated and maintained by the system in their given environment. The program was inspired by Karl Sims’ 1994 artificial evolution program, Evolved Virtual Creatures. The program is run through volunteers who download the program from the home website and return information from completed simulations. It is currently only available on Windows and in some cases Linux.\n\n3DVCE uses evolutionary algorithms to simulate evolution. The user sets the body plan restrictions (maximum number of segment types, branching segments’ length and depth limits, and size limits) and whether fitness score is scaled in relation to size. Limb interpenetration is also an option. Reproduction / population settings include the size of each population and their run time (how long each individual has to attain a fitness score), percentage of individuals who get to reproduce (tournament size), what percentage sexually or asexually reproduce, and selection type is then determined. Crossover rate determines what percentage of an individual is created via crossover of parents and mutation. Mutation rate in body and brain is then determined. Specific mathematical operations and values can be attributed to the creature’s brain as well.\n\nFitness function is then determined. Artificial organisms’ fitness score is determined by how well they achieve their fitness goal within their evaluation time. Fitness functions include distance traveled, maximum height, average height, “TOG” (determined by amount of time creature is in contact with ground), and “Sphere” (determined by creature’s ability to catch and hold spheres). These goals are not individualized and can be set to specific strengths (from zero, as not having an influence on fitness, to one, or having maximum influence) to determine the fitness goal. What generations the fitness function applies to can also be set. The environment, or “Terrain”, is then determined. This includes a flat plain, bumpy terrain (in which a hill is generated around creature that constantly inclines as distance is traveled from the creature’s spawning point), water (a low gravity simulator, non-functional), and “spheres” (spheres are generated above creature to catch).\n\nEverything in the simulation is viewed from a first person viewpoint. After settings are determined, the first generation is generated from randomly created individuals. All creatures appear at the same spawning point and are made of segments or rectangular prisms connected to others at joints. Colors are assigned to segment types randomly. Segment type is determined by the size and joints a segment has. Colors indicate nothing else than that. These first generation creatures move randomly, with no influence from the fitness goal. Creatures with the largest fitness value reproduce and the following generation is based on this reproduction. Eventually, patterns in the population form and fitness increases even further. Fitness function can be changed during the simulation to simulate environmental changes and individual runs can be duplicated to simulate different lineages or speciation.\n\n3DVCE is not only for evolutionary research. Objects can also be spawned for graphics and simulated physics tests. This includes pre-installed blocks, spheres, grenades, and structures that can either be thrown from camera or generated at a spawning point. Artificial gravity can also be manipulated. Random and archived creatures can also be re-spawned to manipulate or view. Lee Graham has also included a TARDIS in the simulation, which when moved into can teleport the camera back to the original spawning point.\n\nConvergent evolution occurs often in 3DVCE, as similar structures and behaviors of the creatures form to maximize fitness. Two-Armed Jumpers consist of a small core and two large symmetrical \"wings\", and evolve in response to jumping and distance requirement. These creatures propel themselves forward using their limbs by jiggling or flapping them. Jumping Ribbons and Springs consist of a chain of segments and evolve in response to max height and distance. They contract or curl up and stretch out their body to leap into the air. Rolling Ribbons and Springs are very similar to the previous group, except they are often larger and segments are more repetitive. They evolve in response to average height, distance, and TOG (touching the ground). They roll on the ground to propel their head into the air to attain height while still touching the ground. Some simply roll in a horizontal fashion like a cylinder. Single-Joint Powered Creatures have more erratic structures and evolve in response to distance on bumpy terrain. They have one large segment in back which kicks the creature forward, but being poorly balanced they use the rest of their bodies to get back up after stumbling or prevent stumbles altogether.\n\nMany other types of creatures also form that do not necessarily fit the four main groups previously described by Lee Graham. Tall stick-like creatures also evolve to attain maximum height. Some users have been able to fix the water simulator to evolve creatures that swim. Many other creatures evolve that share traits of multiple groups. There are currently over 220 creatures archived on the main website, which can be found on YouTube by visiting the \"Creature Mann\" channel.\n"}
{"id": "32498719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32498719", "title": "A Ge", "text": "A Ge\n\nA Ge (Simplified Chinese: 阿鸽; Hanyu Pinyin: Ā Gē) (born 1948) is a Chinese print artist from Liangshan in Sichuan Province and is a member of the Yi people ethnic minority. \nPer government policy towards ethnic minorities, A Ge was recruited at age twelve to attend the Sichuan Fine Arts Institute and was encouraged to create art to publicize Yi minority culture and help development.\n\nIn 1964 she graduated from the national minority class at the Sichuan branch of the China Artists Association. She is married to Xu Kuang.\n\nA Ge is a Grade 1 National Artist, a member of the China Artists Association and the Chinese Engravers Association, and is chairman of the Sichuan Artists Association. Her works have been collected by the British Museum in London.\n\nSelected works:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3456347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3456347", "title": "Abd-Allah ibn Ibadh", "text": "Abd-Allah ibn Ibadh\n\n'Abdullāh ibn 'Ibādh al-Tamimi (, d. 708) was a Tabi'i, a jurist and one of the best students of Ibn Abbas, who narrated hadiths from Aisha and a large number of the Sahaba who witnessed the Battle of Badr. He and Jābir ibn Zayd were imams in the tafsir and sciences of Hadith.\n\nAbdullah ibn Ibadh belongs to the tribe of Bani Murra who are descendants of Murra ibn Ubayd ibn Tamim, and thus he belongs to the tribe of Bani Tamim, one of the largest in the Arabian peninsula.\n\nIbn Ibadh grew up during the reign of Muawiyah I, the first ruler of the Umayyad Caliphate, and died during the reign of Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan.\n\nThe Ibadi school of thought is attributed to ibn Ibadh, although there is some recent research that qualifies this attribution.\n\n\nWho are the Ibaadis? (From a Sunni perspective)\n"}
{"id": "25922191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25922191", "title": "Acorda Therapeutics", "text": "Acorda Therapeutics\n\nAcorda Therapeutics Inc. is an American biotechnology company based in Ardsley, New York. The company develops drugs to improve therapies that improve neurological function in people with multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury and other disorders of the central nervous system. Acorda manufactures and markets the drugs \"Zanaflex\", \"Ampyra\" and \"Qutenza\" in the United States.\n\nIn September 2014, the company acquired Civitas Therapeutics for $525 million - gaining the Phase III Parkinson’s drug, CVT-301.\n\nIn January 2016, the company acquired Finnish pharmaceutical company, Biotie Therapies, for $363 million. This gave the company control over Biotes sclerosing cholangitis drug, BTT1023.\n\nIn November 2016, Acorda Therapeutics announced it was discontinuing development of dalfampridine, a drug intended for post-stroke walking difficulties, after a clinical trial failure. The discontinuation of the drug caused Acorda's shares to drop as much as 13.2%. Acorda shares have dropped 50.2% since January 2016.\n\n, the members of the board of directors of Acorda Therapeutics were: Ron Cohen, Barry Greene, Peder K. Jensen, John P. Kelley, Sandra Panem, Lorin J. Randall, Steven M. Rauscher, and Ian F. Smith.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1657", "title": "Afonso I of Portugal", "text": "Afonso I of Portugal\n\nAfonso I (; 25 July 1106 / 1109 or August 1109 / 11116 December 1185), nicknamed the Conqueror (), the Founder () or the Great () by the Portuguese, and \"El-Bortukali\" [in Arabic ] (\"the Portuguese\") and \"Ibn-Arrink\" [in Arabic or ] (\"son of Henry\", \"Henriques\") by the Moors whom he fought, was the first King of Portugal. He achieved the independence of the southern part of the Kingdom of Galicia, the County of Portugal, from Galicia's overlord, the King of León, in 1139, establishing a new kingdom and doubling its area with the \"Reconquista\", an objective that he pursued until his death in 1185, after forty-six years of wars against the Moors.\n\nAfonso was the son of Henry of Burgundy and Teresa, the natural daughter of King Alfonso VI of León and Castile. According to Fernão Lopes' \"Crónica de Portugal de 1419,\" the future Portuguese king was born in Guimarães, which was at the time the most important political center of his parents. This was accepted by most Portuguese scholarship until in 1990 Torquato de Sousa Soares proposed Coimbra, the center of the county of Coimbra and another political center of Afonso's progenitors, as his birthplace, which caused outrage in Guimarães and a polemic between this historian and José Hermano Saraiva. Almeida Fernandes later proposed Viseu as the birthplace of Afonso basing himself on the \"Chronica Gothorum\", which states Afonso was born in 1109, a position followed by José Mattoso in his biography of the king. Abel Estefânio has suggested a different date and thesis, proposing 1106 as the birth date and the region of Tierra de Campos or even Sahagún as likely birth places based on the known itineraries of counts Henry and Teresa.\n\nThe pair reigned jointly as count and countess of Portugal until Henry's death on 22 May 1112 during the siege of Astorga, after which Teresa reigned alone.\n\nIt is not known who was the tutor of Afonso. Later traditions, probably started with João Soares Coelho (a bastard descendant of Egas Moniz through a female line) in the mid-13th century and ampliated by later chronicles such as the \"Crónica de Portugal de 1419\", asserted he had been Egas Moniz de Ribadouro, possibly with the help of oral memories that associated the tutor to the house of Ribadouro. Yet, contemporary documents, namely from the chancery of Afonso in his early years as count of Portucale, indicate according to José Mattoso that the most likely tutor of Afonso Henriques was Egas Moniz's oldest brother, Ermígio Moniz, who, besides being the senior brother within the family of Ribadouro, became the \"dapifer\" and \"majordomus\" of Afonso I from 1128 until his death in 1135, which indicates his closer proximity to the prince.\n\nIn an effort to pursue a larger share in the Leonese inheritance, his mother Teresa joined forces with Fernando Pérez de Trava, the most powerful count in Galicia. The Portuguese nobility disliked the alliance between Galicia and Portugal and rallied around Afonso. The Archbishop of Braga was also concerned with the dominance of Galicia, apprehensive of the ecclesiastical pretensions of his new rival the Galician Archbishop of Santiago de Compostela, Diego Gelmírez, who had claimed an alleged discovery of relics of Saint James in his town, as a way to gain power and riches over the other cathedrals in the Iberian Peninsula. In 1122, Afonso turned fourteen, the adult age in the 12th century. In symmetry with his cousin he made himself a knight on his own account in the Cathedral of Zamora in 1125, with the permission of his mother. After the military campaign of Alfonso VII against his mother in 1127, Afonso revolted against her and proceeded to take control of the county from its queen.\n\nIn 1128, near Guimarães at the Battle of São Mamede, Afonso and his supporters overcame troops under both his mother and her lover, Count Fernando Peres de Trava of Galicia. Afonso exiled his mother to Galicia, and took over rule of the County of Portucale. Thus the possibility of re-incorporating Portucale into a Kingdom of Portugal and Galicia as before was eliminated and Afonso became sole ruler following demands for greater independence from the county's church and nobles. The battle was mostly ignored by the Leonese suzerain who was occupied at the time with a revolt in Castille. He was also, most likely, waiting for the reaction of the Galician families. After Teresa's death in 1131, Afonso VII of León and Castille proceeded to demand vassalage from his cousin. On 6 April 1129, Afonso Henriques dictated the writ in which he proclaimed himself Prince of Portugal or Prince of the Portuguese, an act informally allowed by Afonso VII, as it was thought to be Afonso Henriques's right by blood, as one of two grandsons of the Emperor of Hispania.\n\nAfonso then turned his arms against the persistent problem of the Moors in the south. His campaigns were successful and, on 25 July 1139, he obtained an overwhelming victory in the Battle of Ourique, and straight after was (possibly unanimously) proclaimed King of the Portuguese by his soldiers, establishing his equality in rank to the other realms of the Peninsula, although the first reference to his royal title dates from 1140. The first assembly of the Portuguese Cortes convened at Lamego (wherein he would have been given the crown from the Archbishop of Braga, to confirm his independence) is a 17th-century embellishment of Portuguese history.\n\nComplete independence from Alfonso VII of León's suzerainty, however, was not a thing he just could achieve militarily. The County of Portugal still had to be acknowledged diplomatically by the neighboring lands as a kingdom and, most importantly, by the Roman Catholic Church and the Pope. Afonso wed Mafalda of Savoy, daughter of Amadeus III, Count of Savoy, and sent ambassadors to Rome to negotiate with the Pope. He succeeded in renouncing the suzerainty of his cousin, Alfonso VII of León, becoming instead a vassal of the papacy, as the kings of Sicily and Aragon had done before him. \n\nIn Portugal he built several monasteries and convents and bestowed important privileges to religious orders. He is notably the builder of Alcobaça Monastery, to which he called the Cistercian Order of his uncle Bernard of Clairvaux of Burgundy. In 1143, he wrote to Pope Innocent II to declare himself and the kingdom servants of the church, swearing to pursue driving the Moors out of the Iberian Peninsula. Bypassing any king of León, Afonso declared himself the direct liege man of the papacy. Afonso continued to distinguish himself by his exploits against the Moors, from whom he wrested Santarém (see Conquest of Santarém) and Lisbon in 1147 (see Siege of Lisbon). He also conquered an important part of the land south of the Tagus River, although this was lost again to the Moors in the following years.\n\nMeanwhile, King Alfonso VII of León (Afonso's cousin) regarded the independent ruler of Portugal as nothing but a rebel. Conflict between the two was constant and bitter in the following years. Afonso became involved in a war, taking the side of the Aragonese king, an enemy of Castile. To ensure the alliance, his son Sancho was engaged to Dulce, sister of the Count of Barcelona and Infanta of Aragon. Finally after winning the Battle of Valdevez, the Treaty of Zamora (1143) established peace between the cousins and the recognition by the Kingdom of León that Portugal was a sovereign kingdom.\n\nIn 1169 the now old Dom Afonso was possibly disabled in an engagement near Badajoz by a fall from his horse, and made prisoner by the soldiers of the king of León Fernando II also his son-in-law. From this time onward, the Portuguese king never rode a horse again, but it is not certain this was because of the disability: according to the later Portuguese chronistic tradition, this happened because Afonso would have to surrender himself again to Fernando II of León or risk war between the two kingdoms if he rode a horse. Portugal was obliged to surrender as his ransom almost all the conquests Afonso had made in Galicia (north of the Minho River) in the previous years.\nIn 1179 the privileges and favours given to the Roman Catholic Church were compensated. With consistent effort by several parties, such as the Primate Archpishop of Braga Paio Mendes, in the papal court, the papal bull \"Manifestis Probatum\" was promulgated accepting the new king as vassal to the pope exclusively. In it Pope Alexander III also acknowledged Afonso as King and Portugal as an independent crown with the right to conquer lands from the Moors. With this papal blessing, Portugal was at last secured as a kingdom.\n\nIn 1184, the Almohad caliph Abu Yaqub Yusuf rallied a great Almohad force to retaliate against the Portuguese raids done since the end of a five-year truce in 1178 and besieged Santarém, which was defended by the heir Sancho. The Almohad siege failed when news arrived the archbishop of Compostela had come to the defense of the city and Fernando II of León himself with his army. The Almohads ended the siege and their retreat turned into a rout due to panic in their camp, with the Almohad caliph being injured in the process (according to one version, because of a crossbow bolt) and dying on the way back to Seville. Afonso died shortly after, probably out of a sudden cause of death, on 6 December 1185. The Portuguese revere him as a hero, both on account of his personal character and as the founder of their nation. There are mythical stories that it took 10 men to carry his sword, and that Afonso wanted to engage other monarchs in personal combat, but no one would dare accept his challenge. It is also told, despite his honourable character, that he had a temper. Several chronicles give the example of a papal legate that brought a message from the Pope Paschal II refusing to acknowledge Afonso's claim as King: either after committing or saying a small offense against him or after being simply read the letter, Afonso almost killed, in his rage, the papal representative, taking several portucalense nobles and soldiers to physically restrain the young would-be king.\n\nIn July 2006, the tomb of the king (which is located in the Santa Cruz Monastery in Coimbra) was to be opened for scientific purposes by researchers from the University of Coimbra (Portugal) and the University of Granada (Spain). The opening of the tomb provoked considerable concern among some sectors of Portuguese society and Portuguese State Agency for Architectural Patrimony (\"Instituto Português do Património Arquitectónico\" - IPPAR) halted the opening, requesting more protocols from the scientific team because of the importance of the king in the nation's heart and public thought.\n\nThese are the known ancestors of Afonso Henriques, going back five generations.\n\nIn 1146, Afonso married Mafalda, daughter of Amadeus III, Count of Savoy and Mahaut of Albon, both appearing together for the first time in May of that year confirming royal charters. They had the following issue:\n\n\nBefore his marriage to Mafalda, King Afonso fathered his first son with Chamoa Gómez, daughter of Count Gómez Núñez and Elvira Pérez, sister of Fernando and Bermudo Pérez de Traba:\n\n\nThe extramarital offspring by Elvira Gálter were:\n\nKing Afonso was also the father of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20621561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20621561", "title": "Ahmad Shah (Taliban)", "text": "Ahmad Shah (Taliban)\n\nAhmad Shah (nom de guerre Mohammad Ismail; – ) was a local (to the Kunar Province of Afghanistan) who commanded a group of fighters operating in eastern Afghanistan and was linked to Gulbadin Hekmatyar.\n\nAhmad Shah was from the Kuz Kunar District of Nangarhar Province. His full name was \"Ahmad Shah Dara-I-Nur\" meaning \"Ahmad Shah of the Valley of the Enlightened Ones\". While he was not part of the Taliban, he sought allegiance with them. He was most closely associated with Gulbadin Hekmatyar. He led a small armed group of Anti-Coalition Militia (ACM) fighters who ambushed a team of four U.S. Navy SEALs and then shot down an MH-47 helicopter dispatched as part of a quick reaction force for the SEALs, killing a total of 19 U.S. special operations personnel during Operation Red Wings in late June 2005. In the fire fight with the four SEALs his group had an estimated 35 casualties as a result of a last stand by the four SEALs. The Marine Battalion that conceived and planned Operation Red Wings, the 2nd Battalion of the 3rd Marine Regiment developed the operation to disrupt Anti-Coalition Militia (ACM) activity in the Pech District of the Kunar Province with a focus on Shah. Through human intelligence and signals intelligence they determined Ahmad Shah had a force of 10 to 20 fighters. Shah and the fighters under his command exacted heavy casualties to the Navy SEALs and Marines.\n\nSubsequent to the SEAL ambush and MH-47 shootdown, Shah and his men escaped to Pakistan, where they produced a video from footage they shot of the ambush that included weapons and implements captured from the SEALs. In late July 2005, Shah and his men returned to the Kunar Province, and began attacking United States, Coalition, and Government of Afghanistan entities.\n\nAhmad Shah's cell was destroyed during Operation Whalers, which was planned and executed by the 2nd Battalion of the 3rd Marine Regiment. Operation Whalers, like Operation Red Wings, was planned to disrupt Anti-Coalition Militia activity in the region to further support ongoing stabilization efforts to ensure a safe voting environment for the 18 September 2005 Afghan National Parliamentary Elections. After Operation Whalers, Shah was unable to stage attacks in Afghanistan again.\n\nShah reportedly fought against the Taliban and al Qaeda in 2001. He eventually switched sides and later became a facilitator for foreign fighters traversing and operating in the challenging terrain of the northeast.\n\nShah was killed during a shootout with Pakistan Armed Forces in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, in April 2008, after failing to stop at a security checkpoint whilst transporting a kidnapped trader. An official from Kunar Province stated that Shah had been the \"most wanted terrorist in Kunar province.\"\n"}
{"id": "581391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=581391", "title": "Alternative lifestyle", "text": "Alternative lifestyle\n\nAn alternative lifestyle is a lifestyle diverse in respect to mainstream ones, or generally perceived to be outside the cultural norm. \"Lifestyle\" is a media culture term derived from the concept of style in art.\nUsually, but not always, it implies an affinity or identification within some matching subculture (e.g. hippies, goths and punks). Some people with alternative lifestyles mix elements from various subcultures (grunge musicians were often influenced by a mixture of the punk, hippie, emo and heavy metal subcultures).\n\nNot all minority lifestyles are held to be \"alternative\", so the term tends to apply to newer forms of lifestyle, often based upon enlarged freedoms (especially in the sphere of social styles), or a decision to substitute another approach, or to not follow the usual expected path in most societies.\n\nAlternative lifestyles and subcultures originated in the 1920s with the \"flapper\" movement, when women cut their hair and skirts short (as a symbol of freedom from oppression and the old way of living). Women in the flapper age were the first large group of females to practice pre-marital sex, dancing, cursing, and driving in modern America without scandal following them.\n\nA Stanford University cooperative house, Synergy, was founded in 1972 with the theme of \"exploring alternative lifestyles.\"\n\nThe following are examples which may be considered by some to be alternative lifestyles:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34892999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34892999", "title": "Astronaut training", "text": "Astronaut training\n\nAstronaut training describes the complex process of preparing astronauts for their space missions before, during and after the flight, which includes medical tests, physical training, extra-vehicular activity (EVA) training, procedure training, rehabilitation process, as well as training on experiments they will accomplish during their stay in space.\n\nThe training is geared to the special conditions and environments astronauts will be confronted with during launch, in space, and during landing. All phases of the flight must be considered during training to ensure safety to, and functionality of the astronauts, as well as to ensure a successful completion of the mission. The Apollo astronauts that walked on the Moon also received training for geology fieldwork on the Lunar surface.\n\nThe effects of launching and landing has various effects on astronauts, with the most significant effects that occur being space motion sickness, orthostatic intolerance, and cardiovascular events.\n\nSpace motion sickness is an event that can occur within minutes of being in changing gravity environments (i.e. from 1g on Earth prior to launch to more than 1g during launch, and then from microgravity in space to hypergravity during re-entry and again to 1g after landing). The symptoms range from drowsiness and headaches, to nausea and vomiting. There are three general categories of space motion sickness:\n\n\nAbout three-fourths of astronauts experience \nspace motion sickness, with effects rarely exceeding two days. There is a risk for post-flight motion sickness, however this is only significant following long-duration space missions.\n\nPost-flight, following exposure to microgravity, the vestibular system, located in the inner ear is disrupted because of the microgravity-induced unresponsiveness of the otoliths which are small calcareous concretions that sense body postures and are responsible for ensuring proper balance. In most cases, this leads to some postflight postural illusions.\n\nCardiovascular events represent important factors during the three phases of a space mission. They can be divided in:\n\nAstronauts are trained in preparation for the conditions of launch as well as the harsh environment of space. This training aims to prepare the crew for events falling under two broad categories: events relating to operation of the spacecraft (internal events), and events relating to the space environment (external events).\n\nDuring training, astronauts are familiarized with the engineering systems of the spacecraft including spacecraft propulsion, spacecraft thermal control, and life support systems. In addition to this, astronauts receive training in orbital mechanics, scientific experimentation, earth observation, and astronomy. This training is particularly important for missions when an astronaut will encounter multiple systems (for example on the International Space Station (ISS)). Training is performed in order to prepare astronauts for events that may pose a hazard to their health, the health of the crew, or the successful completion of the mission. These types of events may be: failure of a critical life support system, capsule depressurization, fire, and other life-threatening events. In addition to the need to train for hazardous events, astronauts will also need to train to ensure the successful completion of their mission. This could be in the form of training for EVA, scientific experimentation, or spacecraft piloting.\n\nExternal events refers more broadly to the ability to live and work in the extreme environment of space. This includes adaptation to microgravity (or weightlessness), isolation, confinement, and radiation. The difficulty associated with living and working in microgravity include spatial disorientation, motion sickness, and vertigo. During long-duration missions, astronauts will often experience isolation and confinement. This has been known to limit performance of astronaut crews and hence training aims to prepare astronauts for such challenges. The long-term effects of radiation on crews is still largely unknown. However, it is theorized that astronauts on a trip to Mars will likely receive more than 1000x the radiation dosage of a typical person on earth. As such, present and future training must incorporate systems and processes for protecting astronauts against radiation.\n\nScientific experimentation has historically been an important element of human spaceflight, and is the primary focus of the International Space Station. Training on how to successfully carry out these experiments is an important part of astronaut training, as it maximizes the scientific return of the mission. Once on-orbit, communication between astronauts and scientists on the ground can be limited, and time is strictly apportioned between different mission activities. It is vital that astronauts are familiar with their assigned experiments in order to complete them in a timely manner, with as little intervention from the ground as possible.\n\nFor missions to the ISS, each astronaut is required to become proficient at one hundred or more experiments. During training, the scientists responsible for the experiments do not have direct contact with the astronauts who will be carrying them out. Instead, scientists instruct trainers who in turn prepare the astronauts for carrying out the experiment. Much of this training is done at the European Astronaut Center.\n\nFor human experiments, the scientists describe their experiments to the astronauts who then choose whether to participate on board the ISS. For these experiments, the astronauts will be tested before, during, and after the mission to establish a baseline and determine when the astronaut returned to the baseline.\n\nAt NASA, following the selection phase, the so-called \"AsCans\" (Astronaut candidates) have to undergo up to two years of training/indoctrination period to become fully qualified astronauts. \nInitially, all AsCans must go through basic training to learn both technical and soft skills. There are 16 different technical courses in:\n\n\nAsCans initially go through Basic Training, where they are trained on Soyuz, and ISS systems, flight safety and operations, as well as land or water survival. Pilot AsCans will receive training on NASA's T-38 Trainer Jet. Furthermore, because modern space exploration is done by a consortium of different countries and is a very publicly visible area, astronauts received professional and cultural training, as well as language courses (specifically in Russian).\n\nFollowing completion of Basic Training candidates proceed to NASA's Advanced Training. AsCans are trained on life-sized models to get a feel of what they will be doing in space. This was done both through the use of the Shuttle Training Aircraft while it was still operational and is done through simulation mock-ups. The shuttle training aircraft was exclusively used by the commander and pilot astronauts for landing practices until the retirement of the Shuttle, while advanced simulation system facilities are used by all the candidates to learn how to work and successfully fulfill their tasks in the space environment. Simulators and EVA training facilities help candidates to best prepare their different mission operations. In particular, vacuum chambers, parabolic flights, and neutral buoyancy facilities (NBF) allow candidates to get acclimated to the micro gravity environment, particularly for EVA. Virtual reality is also becoming increasingly used as a tool to immerse AsCans into the space environment.\nThe final phase is the Intensive Training. It starts at about three months prior to launch and serves to prepare the candidates specifically for the mission they have been assigned to. Flight-specific integrated simulations are designed to provide a dynamic testing ground for mission rules and flight procedures. The final Intensive Training joint crew/flight controller training is carried out in parallel with \"mission planning.\" This phase is where candidates will undergo mission specific operational training, as well as experience with their assigned experiments. Crew medical officer training is also included to effectively intervene with proactive and reactive actions in case of medical issues.\n\nAstronaut training in Europe is carried out by the European Astronaut Centre (EAC), headquartered in Cologne, Germany. European training has three phases: Basic training, Advanced training, and Increment Specific Training.\n\nFor all ESA selected astronauts, Basic Training begins at the EAC headquarters. This section of the training cycle has four separate training blocks that last 16 months. Astronauts will receive an orientation on the major spacefaring nations, their space agencies, and all major manned and unmanned space programs. Training in this phase also looks into applicable laws and policies of the space sector. Technical (including engineering, astrodynamics, propulsion, orbital mechanics, etc.) and scientific (including human physiology, biology, earth observation, and astronomy) basics are introduced, to ensure that all new astronauts have the required base level of knowledge. Training is done on ISS operations and facilities, including an introduction to all major operating systems on board the ISS that are required for its functionality as a manned space research laboratory. This phase also covers in-depth systems operations for all spacecraft that service the ISS (e.g. Soyuz, Progress, Automatic Transfer Vehicle (ATV), and the H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)), as well as ground control and launch facility training. This training phase also focuses on skills such as robotic operations, rendezvous and docking, Russian language courses, human behavior and performance, and finally a PADI open water scuba diving course. This scuba course provides basic EVA training at ESA's NBF before moving onto the larger NASA training facility at the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center.\n\nAdvanced Training includes a much more in-depth look into the ISS, including learning how to service and operate all systems. Enhanced science training is also implemented at this time to ensure all astronauts can perform science experiments on board the ISS. This phase takes around one year to complete and training is completed across the ISS partner network, no longer only at the EAC. It is only upon completion of this phase that astronauts are assignment to a spaceflight.\n\nIncrement-Specific Training starts only after an astronaut has been assigned to a flight. This phase lasts 18 months and prepares them for their role on their assigned mission. During this phase crew members as well as backup crews will train together. The crew tasks on the ISS are individually tailored, with consideration to the astronaut's particular experience and professional background. There are three different user levels for all on-board equipment (i.e. user level, operator level, and specialist level). A crew member can be a specialist on systems while also only being an operator or user on others, hence why the training program is individually tailored. Increment Specific Training also includes training to deal with off-nominal situations. Astronauts will also learn how to run the experiments that are specifically scheduled for their assigned missions.\n\nTraining for cosmonauts falls into three phases: General Space Training, Group Training, and Crew Training. General Space Training lasts about two years and consists of classes, survival training, and a final exam which determines whether a cosmonaut will be a test or research cosmonaut. The next year is devoted to Group Training where cosmonauts specialize in the Soyuz or ISS as well as professional skills. The final phases, the Crew Training phase, lasts a year and a half and is dedicated to detailed vehicle operations procedures, ISS training, and English language.\n\nTraining primarily takes place at the Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center. The center facilities have full size mockups of all major Soviet and Russian spacecraft including the ISS. As with the ISS astronauts, cosmonauts train in the USA, Germany, Japan, and Canada for specific training in the various ISS modules.\n\nThe Japanese human spaceflight program has historically focused on training astronauts for Space Shuttle missions. As such, training previously took place at NASA’s Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center, and followed that of NASA astronauts and other international participants in the Space Shuttle program.\n\nSince the development of domestic training facilities at the Tsukuba Space Center, training has increasingly taken place in Japan. With Japan’s participation in the ISS, the training of Japanese astronauts follows a similar structure to that of other ISS partners. Astronauts carry out 1.5 years of Basic Training mainly at Tsukuba, followed by 1.5–2 years of Advanced Training at Tsukuba and ISS partner sites. Training for any international ISS astronauts involving the Kibo module will also be carried out at Tsukuba Space Center.\n\nAdvanced Training is followed by Increment-Specific Training, which, along with any Kibo training, will be carried out at Tsukuba. EVA training for Kibo takes place in the Weightless Environment Test System (WETS). WETS is a Neutral Buoyancy Facility featuring a full-scale mock-up of the Kibo module on the ISS. The Tsukuba Space Center also includes medical facilities for assessing suitability of candidates, an isolation chamber for simulating some of the mental and emotional stressors of long duration spaceflight, and a hypobaric chamber for training in hull breach or Life Support System failure scenarios resulting in a reduction or loss of air pressure.\n\nAlthough official detail of the selection process for the Shenzhou program is not available, what is known is that candidates are chosen by the Chinese National Space Administration from the Chinese air force and must be between 25 and 30 years of age, with a minimum of 800 hours flying time, and a degree-level education. Candidates must be between 160 cm and 172 cm in height, and between 50 kg and 70 kg in weight.\n\nFor China's Shenzhou astronauts, training begins with a year-long program of education in the basics of spaceflight. During this period, candidates are also introduced to human physiology and psychology. The second phase of training, lasting nearly 3 years involves extensive training in piloting the Shenzhou vehicle in nominal and emergency modes. The third and final stage of training is mission specific training, and lasts approximately 10 months. During this phase of training, astronauts are trained in the high fidelity Shenzhou trainer, as well as the Neutral Buoyancy Facility located at the Astronaut Center of China (ACC), in Beijing. As well as time spent in the Neutral Buoyancy Facility (NBF), training for EVA takes place in a high vacuum, low temperature chamber that simulates the environmental conditions of space. At all stages of training, astronauts undergo physical conditioning, including time in a human centrifuge located at the ACC, and a program of micro gravity flights, carried out in Russia.\n\nThe Indian human space flight program still awaits a formal go ahead. Once cleared the mission is expected to take two Indians in a Soyuz-type orbital vehicle into low earth orbit. The training for these astronauts should be based on the lessons learned from training India’s only Cosmonaut Wing Commander Rakesh Sharma (\"See Salyut-7 1984\") and through India’s international co-operation with NASA and Roscosmos. This would allow India to gain insights from their rich experiences in human spaceflight. There also lies a possibility that India may go proceed through its human spaceflight program individually, necessitating the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) to develop its own training program. For astronaut training, India is deciding a place which is at a distance of 8 to 10 km from Kempegowda international airport. This land is under the ownership of ISRO. Astronaut training and biomedical engineering centers will be built on it. Though India’s first man mission training will take place in USA or in Russia, this place can be used for future training. Moreover, center will have chambers for radiation regulation, thermal cycling and centrifugal for the acceleration training. .\n\nWhile it is likely that the first generation of non-government spaceflight astronauts will perform suborbital trajectories, currently some companies like Virgin Galactic and Xcor Aerospace are developing their own proprietary suborbital astronaut training programs, however the first official Suborbital Astronaut Training program of the 21st century was a joint effort between the two government agencies, the Ecuadorian Air Force and the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center<ref name=\"FAE-ESAA ASA/T astronaut training:2005\">Ecuadorian Air Force Official document on ASA/T program. <http://www.exa.ec/bp8/FAE-ESAA.pdf></ref> developed the ASA/T (Advanced Suborbital Astronaut Training) program with a duration up to 16 months, it started in 2005 and completed in 2007 focusing in command and research duties during short duration missions with suborbital trajectories up to 180 kilometers. This program had one Ecuadorian citizen graduate in 2007,<ref name=\"FAE-ESAA ASA/T astronaut training:2007\">Ecuadorian Air Force presented with ASA/T program completion brief. <http://www.exa.ec/bp8/></ref><ref name=\"FAE-ESAA ASA/T astronaut training:2008\">Ecuadorian Air Force presented with space program brief. <http://www.exa.ec/bp9/></ref> recently the Ecuadorian Space Agency has made a call for a new class of ASA/T training candidates, accordingly to the EXA, they will focus on renting commercial suborbital vehicles in order to perform manned space research\n\nLooking ahead, the emergence of commercial space tourism will necessitate new standards for flight participants that currently do not exist. These standards will be to ensure that medical screenings are done properly in order to ensure safe and successful flights. This type of medical screening will differ from space agency astronaut selection and training because the goal is not to fly the highest performing individual, but merely to ensure a safe flight for the passengers under the rigors of space travel. The main considerations for this type of travel will be:\n\n\nMedical regulations for commercial space flight might mitigate commercial space company risk by selecting only those capable of passing standard medical criteria, as opposed to allowing anyone who can purchase a ticket to fly. The first generation of commercial space flight will likely be suborbital trajectories which invoke significant acceleration changes, causing cardiovascular and pulmonary issues. Because of this any future medical criteria for commercial spaceflight participants needs to focus specifically on the detrimental effects of rapidly changing gravitational levels, and which individuals will be capable of tolerating this.\n\nBioastronautics and upper-atmospheric research have been conducted by Project PoSSUM scientist-astronaut candidates since 2015. As of October 2018, the program has attracted members from 37 different countries and published research on mesospheric dynamics and human performance in space suits, microgravity, and post-landing environments. \n\nCurrent research on fitness training and strategies for commercial astronauts conducted by Astrowright Spaceflight Consulting, the first commercial firm to offer dedicated fitness training for space tourists, suggests that conventional fitness training is inadequate to support safe movement in microgravity, and that training utilizing reduced points of stability should be emphasized.\n\nAstronauts for long term missions such as those to the Moon, an asteroid, or even to Mars need to carry out multiple tasks and duties, because on such missions the astronauts will need to function largely autonomously, and will need to be proficient in many different areas. For these types of missions, the training to prepare astronauts will likely include training as doctors, scientists, engineers, technicians, pilots, and geologists. In addition there will be a focus on the psychological aspects of long-duration missions where crew is largely isolated.\n\nCurrently a six-month mission to the ISS requires up to five years of astronaut training. This level of training is to be expected and likely to be expanded upon for future space exploration missions. It may also include in-flight training aspects. It may be possible that the ISS will be used as a long-duration astronaut training facility in the future.\n\nA powerful tool for astronaut training will be the continuing use of analog environments, including NASA Extreme Environment Mission Operations (NOAA NEEMO), NASA's Desert Research and Technology Studies (Desert RATS), Envihab (planned), Flight Analog Research Unit, Haughton-Mars Project (HMP), or even the ISS (in-flight). In fact, at NEEMO a total of 15 mission astronauts (known as aquanauts) have been trained for future missions to asteroids. The use of virtual reality will also continue to be used as a means of training astronauts in a cost effective manner, particularly for operations such as extra-vehicular activity (EVA).\n\nThese missions are not completely independent without the presence of robots. This opens up a new avenue towards Human-Robot Interaction which has to be thoroughly understood and practised to develop a harmonious relationship between astronauts and robots. These robots would aid the astronauts from being their personal assistants to next generation of extreme environment explorers. Currently there is a robot on the ISS aiding the astronauts in their mammoth tasks with a human touch. Intercultural and human robot interaction training is the need of the hour for long duration missions.\n\nTraining also has to be evolved for moon landing to Manned mission to Mars. Factors like crew dynamics, crew size, and crew activities play a crucial role as these missions would last from 1 year to Moon to 3 years on Mars. The training required for such missions has to be versatile and easy to learn, adapt, and improvise.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "235988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=235988", "title": "Bichir", "text": "Bichir\n\nBichirs and the reedfish comprise Polypteridae, a family of archaic-looking ray-finned fishes and the only family in the order Polypteriformes.\n\nAll species occur in freshwater habitats in tropical Africa and the Nile River system, mainly swampy, shallow floodplains and estuaries.\n\nBichirs are considered the sister group to all other extant ray-finned fishes.\n\nBichirs are elongated fish with a unique series of dorsal finlets which vary in number from seven to 18, instead of a single dorsal fin. Each of the dorsal finlets has bifid (double-edged) tips, and are the only fins with spines; the rest of the fins are composed of soft rays. The body is covered in thick, bonelike, and rhombic (ganoid) scales. Their jaw structure more closely resembles that of the tetrapods than that of the teleost fishes. Bichirs have a number of other primitive characteristics, including fleshy pectoral fins superficially similar to those of lobe-finned fishes. They also have a pair of slit-like spiracles on the top of their heads that are used to breathe air, two gular plates, and paired ventral lungs (the left lung shorter than the right). Four pairs of gill arches are present.\n\nBichirs have a maximum body length ranging from to over depending on specific species and morphology.\n\nBichirs are nocturnal and feed on small vertebrates, crustaceans, and insects.\n\nBichirs possess paired lungs which connect to the esophagus via a glottis. They are facultative air-breathers, requiring access to surface air to breathe in poorly oxygenated water. Their lungs are highly vascularized to facilitate gas exchange. Deoxygenated arterial blood is brought to the lungs by paired pulmonary arteries, which branch from the fourth efferent branchial arteries (artery from the fourth gill arch), and oxygenated blood leaves the lungs in pulmonary veins. Unlike most lungfish and tetrapods, their lungs are smooth sacs instead of alveolated tissue. Bichirs are unique in that they breathe using recoil aspiration. Bichirs appear to prefer breathing air via their spiracles when undisturbed or in extremely shallow waters where they are unable to incline their body enough to breathe air through their mouth.\n\nBichirs are popular subjects of public and large hobby aquaria. They are sometimes called dragon bichir or dragon fin in pet shops for a more appealing name due to their dragon-like appearance. Though predatory, they are otherwise peaceful, preferring to lie on the bottom, and make good tankmates with other species large enough to not be prey. Bichirs in captivity have life expectancies up to 10 years.\n\nThe two genera have 12 extant species:\n\nOrder Polypteriformes\n\nSuborder Polypterioidei\n\n"}
{"id": "422892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422892", "title": "Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart", "text": "Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart\n\nBrigadier Alistair Gordon Lethbridge-Stewart, generally referred to simply as the Brigadier, is a fictional character in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", created by writers Mervyn Haisman and Henry Lincoln and played by Nicholas Courtney. He is one of the founders of UNIT (United Nations Intelligence Taskforce, later Unified Intelligence Taskforce), an international organization that defends Earth from alien threats, and serves as commander of the British contingent. Presented at first as reluctant to accept the continuing aid of the Doctor, over time the Brigadier became one of the Doctor's greatest friends and his principal ally in defending the Earth.\n\nAs one of the series' most prominent recurring characters over its fifty-year history, the Brigadier appeared in 23 stories during the original run of \"Doctor Who\", first appearing in the 1968 serial \"The Web of Fear\" opposite the Second Doctor (Patrick Troughton). The character made frequent appearances on the series following the introduction of the Third Doctor (Jon Pertwee) in 1970's \"Spearhead from Space\". His final appearance in the program was in 1989's \"Battlefield\" opposite the Seventh Doctor (Sylvester McCoy). Nearly 20 years later, Courtney reprised the role in the spin-off programme \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" in 2008, his last appearance prior to Courtney's death in 2011. That year, \"Doctor Who\" later paid tribute to Courtney by announcing the Brigadier had died with a line of dialogue in \"The Wedding of River Song\". Later still, a Cyberman avatar of the Brigadier also appears, and achieves some closure with the Twelfth Doctor (Peter Capaldi), in \"Death in Heaven\" (2014).\n\nThe 2012 episode \"The Power of Three\" introduced the Brigadier's daughter, new UNIT chief Kate Stewart (Jemma Redgrave). The character was originally created in the unlicensed video spin-off \"Downtime\" in 1995, in which the Brigadier also appeared. Kate becomes a recurring character making appearances alongside the Eleventh Doctor (Matt Smith) and Twelfth Doctor (Peter Capaldi).\n\nAlistair Gordon Lethbridge-Stewart's ancestry goes back to Scotland, according to dialogue in \"Terror of the Zygons\" (1975). He first encounters the Second Doctor in \"The Web of Fear\" (1968), when Lethbridge-Stewart is a colonel in the Scots Guards commanding a British Army detachment sent to investigate the Yeti in the London Underground. By his next appearance in \"The Invasion\" (1968), he had been promoted to Brigadier and was working with UNIT. When the Doctor was forcibly regenerated and exiled to Earth, Lethbridge-Stewart gave him a position as UNIT's scientific advisor after he helped defeat the Auton invasion. Other military members of UNIT included Captain Mike Yates, Sergeant Benton and Royal Navy Lieutenant Harry Sullivan.\n\nMost of the Third Doctor stories were set on Earth and feature UNIT and the Brigadier heavily. While not as ubiquitous in the following years, he appeared alongside every subsequent Doctor in the original television series run, excluding the Sixth Doctor with whom he appeared only in the 30th anniversary special, \"Dimensions in Time\" in 1993. Although Lethbridge-Stewart first met the Doctor in his second incarnation, he also met and worked with the First Doctor in the opening serial of the 10th anniversary season, \"The Three Doctors\" and again in the 20th anniversary special, \"The Five Doctors\". He eventually retired from the military to teach mathematics at an English public school in 1976, as seen in \"Mawdryn Undead\" (1983). The Brigadier and the Sixth Doctor, as well as later incarnations of the Doctor, have been paired in numerous spin-off productions (see Other appearances).\n\nAs one of the most popular recurring supporting characters in the television series, the Brigadier is often listed among the Doctor's companions. He is listed as such by the BBC and included in John Nathan-Turner's (a former producer of \"Doctor Who\") book discussing all of the Doctor's companions.\n\nLethbridge-Stewart's last appearance in a \"Doctor Who\" television episode was in 1989, in the Seventh Doctor serial \"Battlefield\". Called out of retirement to deal with an other-dimensional invasion of armoured knights led by Morgaine, he found himself once again at the Doctor's side. Lethbridge-Stewart served as his world's champion as he faced down and killed the demonic Destroyer of Worlds armed only with his service revolver and a load of silver-tipped bullets. (\"Battlefield\" was stated to be a few years into Ace's future but not a specific date. The Virgin New Adventures books place it in 1997.)\n\nLittle was shown of Lethbridge-Stewart's life outside UNIT in the television series. \"Planet of the Spiders\" referred to a relationship with a woman called Doris. By \"Battlefield\", he was married to her (played by Angela Douglas). It was Courtney's own belief that the Brigadier had been in a previous marriage to a woman named Fiona, and that he and Doris were having an affair; his first marriage ended due to his work.\n\nAlthough Lethbridge-Stewart never appeared in the revived series, the character is still alive during the Tenth Doctor's tenure. In the spin-off programme \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" story \"Revenge of the Slitheen\", Sarah Jane Smith says to \"give [her] love to the Brig\". In the Tenth Doctor episode \"The Poison Sky\", the Doctor mentions that he could use the help of \"the Brigadier\". He is then told that \"Sir Alistair\" is \"stranded in Peru\", indicating that the Brigadier has been knighted by this time. The first film footage from the classic era to appear in the revived era was his photograph displayed in the slow pan across Sarah Jane Smith's attic in the opening scene of \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\"’ première, \"Invasion of the Bane\".\n\nIn 2008, Courtney again reprised the role in a \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" story, \"Enemy of the Bane\", and confirmed his knighthood repeatedly: Major Kilburne and Sarah Jane each address him as \"Sir Alistair\" and he later introduces himself fully as \"Brigadier Sir Alistair Gordon Lethbridge-Stewart\" to Mrs. Wormwood. This episode refers back to the Peru mission as there is mention of him being de-briefed about it. Sarah Jane asks Lethbridge-Stewart to assist her in accessing UNIT's \"Black Archive\", a top secret alien artefact facility first alluded to by Douglas Cavendish to Sir Alistair's daughter in \"Dæmos Rising\". Sarah Jane prefers to avoid seeking official clearance, to avoid awkward questions about Luke, her artificially-grown son. In his old age, the Brigadier has developed a dislike for the new way UNIT works and often refers to events that happened in \"his day\". He walks with a walking stick now, but is seen driving a Bentley T-series to UNIT's \"Black Archive\". His wife (presumably Doris) is mentioned in this episode. The Brigadier assists Sarah Jane and Rani in escaping UNIT and later confronts a Bane disguised as a UNIT officer, shooting him dead with a gun hidden within his cane.\n\nIn \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" story \"The Wedding of Sarah Jane Smith\", Clyde Langer tells Peter Dalton that the Brigadier cannot make it to the wedding because he is back in Peru. It had been intended by the production team that Lethbridge-Stewart would indeed appear in the story and meet the Tenth Doctor, but Courtney was recovering from a stroke and unable to take part. He is reported to be in Peru for a third time in \"Death of the Doctor\" (2010). Clyde describes him as being Sarah Jane's oldest friend; Sarah Jane met both the Doctor and Sir Alistair in the first episode of the Third Doctor serial, \"The Time Warrior\" (1974).\n\nIn 2009, Courtney reprised the role for a final time in the short film \"Liberty Hall\", an extra for \"Mawdryn Undead\"s DVD release. The film is a seven-minute mockumentary where a fictional journalist interviews the Brigadier about his life. The Brigadier discusses his marriages with Fiona and Doris, and mentions his daughter Kate and grandson Gordon (referencing \"Downtime\"). He states that his most recent encounter with the Doctor took place in 2000, when he was on unofficial UNIT business in Malebolgia in the United States (referencing the Eighth Doctor audio drama \"Minuet in Hell\"). He concludes, \"So, now I've hung up my uniform for good... unless I hear that a blue police box has been found somewhere, and then, don't you worry, I'll be ready!\"\n\nSometime later, the Brigadier becomes ill and is moved into a nursing home. In 2011's \"The Wedding of River Song\", the Eleventh Doctor rings the nursing home to have the Brigadier made ready for a trip; a nurse regretfully informs him that the Brigadier died peacefully \"a few months ago\" and had spoken well of him often, insisting a glass always be kept ready for him in case he turned up. The Doctor is visibly shattered by the news, which forces him to realise that he can't avoid his predestined death.\n\nIn the 2014 episode \"Death in Heaven\", Missy (the regenerated female Master) resurrects the Earth's dead as flight-capable Cybermen. The Brigadier's daughter Kate is apparently killed falling from a plane during a Cybermen attack. Overcoming his programming, the converted Danny Pink commands the Cybermen to sacrifice themselves to thwart Missy's plan. The Doctor prepares to execute Missy, but is preempted by a lone surviving Cyberman, who seemingly vaporizes her with a forearm-mounted ray-gun. Finding that the Cyberman has rescued Kate, the Doctor realizes it is the converted Brigadier, saying \"Of course! Earth's darkest hour, and mine. Where else would you be?\" Overcome with emotion, the Doctor salutes him – something Kate said her father had always wanted – and the Brigadier fires his leg jets and flies away. What happens to him afterward is left unknown.\n\nIn the 2017 Christmas special \"Twice Upon a Time\", the First and Twelfth Doctors unwittingly intervene when Testimony, an organization in the far future that collect memories from those about to die, retrieve a captain in the First World War from the moment before his death, the temporal anomaly of the two Doctors resisting their imminent regenerations disrupting Testimony's efforts to return the captain to his scheduled death. The Doctors are able to bend the rules and return the captain to a point a couple of hours after he was taken out of time, in time for his life to be saved by the Christmas truce. Before he returns to time, the captain reveals that his name is Archibald Hamish Lethbridge-Stewart, suggesting that he is a relative of the Brigadier. (It is confirmed that the character is one of the Brigadier's grandfathers.)\nThe Brigadier and the Sixth Doctor were paired in the two-part charity special \"Dimensions in Time\" and the Big Finish audio play, \"The Spectre of Lanyon Moor\". The Sixth Doctor also meets the Brigadier in the novel \"Business Unusual\", also purporting to be the first meeting of the two characters, subsequently working together in \"The Shadow in the Glass\" to track down the newly discovered Fourth Reich; in the short story \"Brief Encounter: A Wee Deoch an..?\", written by Sixth Doctor actor Colin Baker and published in \"Doctor Who Magazine Winter Special\", 1991, they cross paths but neither realises it. The Brigadier has also appeared with the Eighth Doctor in the novel \"The Eight Doctors\" by Terrance Dicks (set after the events of the TV Movie and during moments of The Doctors' past lives) in audio plays and the novels \"The Dying Days\" and \"The Shadows of Avalon\". The Tenth Doctor met the Brigadier in the \"Doctor Who Magazine\" comic \"The Warkeeper's Crown\".\n\nThe Brigadier and his family have made several appearances in the spin-off media. The spin-off UNIT videos \"Downtime\" and \"Dæmos Rising\" feature Kate Lethbridge-Stewart, the Brigadier's daughter from his marriage to his first wife, Fiona (first named in the Missing Adventure \"The Scales of Injustice\" by Gary Russell). Also appearing was Kate's young son, Gordon Lethbridge-Stewart. Kate also played her UNIT role in the fiftieth anniversary episode, \"The Day of the Doctor\" (2013).\n\nThe novels also gave Lethbridge-Stewart another offspring. While on duty in Sierra Leone as a young lieutenant, Lethbridge-Stewart met and was intimate with a local girl named Mariatu, the daughter of a village chief, and unknown to Lethbridge-Stewart, she had a son. This was first hinted at in Ben Aaronovitch's novelisation of his 1988 serial \"Remembrance of the Daleks\", which featured quotes from a fictional history of UNIT (\"The Zen Military\") written by a Kadiatu Lethbridge-Stewart (Mariatu's granddaughter) in 2006. In the 1992 New Adventures novel \"Transit\" (also by Aaronovitch, and set in the 22nd Century), the Seventh Doctor meets the adopted daughter of General Yembe Lethbridge-Stewart, one of Mariatu's descendants. This daughter, also named Kadiatu Lethbridge-Stewart, went on to become a recurring character in the New Adventures.\n\nThe novels have also fleshed out the Brigadier's ancestry, establishing that he comes from a long-standing military family. In the New Adventures novel \"The Dying Days\" by Lance Parkin, he talks about three ancestors who reached the rank of general. One, William Lethbridge-Stewart, was in the retinue of James VI of Scotland and I of England. The other two fought at Naseby and Waterloo. \"The Scales of Injustice\" names the latter as Major-General Fergus Lethbridge-Stewart. The Brigadier also says in \"The Dying Days\" that his father died in World War II, fighting alongside Field-Marshal Montgomery in Africa.\n\nThe Past Doctor Adventures novel \"The Wages of Sin\" by David A. McIntee established that the Brigadier had an ancestor named Alastair Lethbridge-Stewart who worked for the British Government in 1916. \"Deadly Reunion\" by Terrance Dicks and Barry Letts establishes that the Brigadier was a Second Lieutenant serving in Army Intelligence in 1944, although this makes the Brigadier older than other stories would suggest.\n\nIn the novels, Lethbridge-Stewart emerged from retirement again during the events of \"The Dying Days\" where he dealt with an invasion of Ice Warriors from Mars in 1997. At the end of that novel he was promoted to General. Lethbridge-Stewart was subsequently rejuvenated with alien technology in \"Happy Endings\" by Paul Cornell, taking place in 2010. The rejuvenated Lethbridge-Stewart, widowed as a result of an accident at sea but back with the military, next appeared in the BBC Books Eighth Doctor Adventures novel \"The Shadows of Avalon\", also by Cornell, where he still held the rank of General but preferred to be called \"the Brigadier\". According to \"The King of Terror\" by Keith Topping, Lethbridge-Stewart eventually passes away in the early 2050s.\n\nCourtney played the Brigadier in two BBC Radio 4 \"Doctor Who\" plays set during the Third Doctor's era, \"The Paradise of Death\" (1993) and \"The Ghosts of N-Space\" (1996), alongside Pertwee and Elisabeth Sladen as Sarah Jane Smith. For Big Finish, he has played the part of Lethbridge-Stewart in several plays, with \"Minuet in Hell\" revealing that he played a role in the establishment of the Scottish Parliament and also that he does covert work for the UN as a plausibly deniable agent. He also played an alternate universe version of the Brigadier in the \"Doctor Who Unbound\" play \"Sympathy for the Devil\", opposite David Warner as the Doctor and David Tennant (later cast as the Tenth Doctor) as Colonel Brimmecombe-Wood. At the conclusion of \"Sympathy\", the alternate Brigadier- referred to as 'Alistair'- joins Warner's Doctor as his companion, but after an unspecified amount of time travelling together, they part ways in the later audio \"Masters of War\", when the two arrive on Skaro and force the Daleks and the Thals to join forces to fight off an invasion by a race known as the Quatch, Alistair remaining once the Quatch are defeated to help the two sides maintain their new truce.\n\nCourtney also voiced the Brigadier in the 2001 webcast \"Death Comes to Time\".\n\nIn December 2004, Big Finish released the first of a series of UNIT-based audio plays, where General Sir Alistair Lethbridge-Stewart acted as a consultant to a new generation of officers and by series' end became UNIT's new Scientific Advisor. If the events in this series are to be reconciled with the books, these plays would seem to take place between the events of \"The Dying Days\" and \"Happy Endings\", as this version of Lethbridge-Stewart does not seem to be rejuvenated. Also, the public does not believe in existence of aliens, which would appear to place it before the events of \"The Christmas Invasion\".\n\nIn the \"Doctor Who Magazine\" comic strip story \"Warkeeper's Crown\" (DWM #378–380), Lethbridge-Stewart made a reappearance alongside the Tenth Doctor after being kidnapped by Warlords as a tactical commander. He was an old officer stationed at Sandhurst.\n\nA series of novels featuring the young Colonel Lethbridge-Stewart has been published by Candy Jar Books since 2015. The novels are licensed by the literary estate of co-creator Mervyn Haisman and endorsed by Henry Lincoln.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe character also appears briefly in a cameo role at the end of writer Paul Cornell's novelisation of the 1997 ITV science-fiction serial \"The Uninvited\". Although the character is not named in the book, the description is that of Lethbridge-Stewart and Cornell later admitted that this was indeed his intention.\n\nMarvel Comics' \"Excalibur\" featured an organisation called W.H.O. (the Weird Happenings Organisation) run by a Brigadier Alysande Stuart. Her twin brother Alistaire was WHO's \"scientific advisor\" (the role the Doctor had in UNIT). A character named \"Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart\" had earlier appeared in three panels of \"Uncanny X-Men\" #218, supervising the arrest of the Juggernaut in Edinburgh, where he also calls out to a \"Sergeant-Major Benton\" at one point.\n\nThe Sherlock Holmes novel \"Waters of Death\" by Kel Richards features a naval commander called Ralph Lethbridge-Stewart, alongside Captain Harry Sullivan and Lieutenant Philip Benton. It is set in the same fictional location as the \"Doctor Who\" story \"Terror of the Zygons\".\n\nAn unnamed army brigadier, who looks and acts very similar to Lethbridge-Stewart, appears in the comic strip \"Caballistics, Inc.\". He first appeared in the story \"Going Underground\", where he is in charge of the army's response following a demon invasion of the London Underground; a member of his SAS team refers to \"bloody robot yetis\" having been down there once. He shows up again in the story \"Ashes\", in charge of the military response to a devastating attack on Glasgow. This character is one of several references to both the \"Doctor Who\" universe and other sci-fi/horror properties in \"Caballistics\".\n\nAlthough unnamed, two characters strongly resembling Lethbridge-Stewart and Sergeant Benton (who was specifically named) appear in the John M. Ford \"Star Trek\" novel \"How Much for Just the Planet?\" at a rather treacherous golf course on the planet Direidi.\n\nSimilarly to Alysande Stuart, the comic book \"Jack Staff\" includes Commander Liz Stewart of S.M.I.L.E. (Secret Military Intelligence Lethal Executive).\n\nThe Brigadier briefly appears in Kim Newman and Eugene Byrne's \"Back in the USSA\", supporting Britain's involvement in an alternate Vietnam War.\n\nThe Brigadier was referenced in name in the ABC Family show \"the Middleman\". In the episode \"The Clotharian Contamination Protocol,\" Wendy and The Middleman go to check out a returned Voyager probe. However, a nearby NASA listening station team also arrives. Using their random IDs, and due to the quick thinking of the Middleman, they are intimidated into leaving. As they go, the Middleman calls out the other team's lead, \"Mr... Lethbridge-Stewart, if that is your real name!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5732607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5732607", "title": "Capital punishment in Iraq", "text": "Capital punishment in Iraq\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Iraq.\n\nIt was commonly used by the government of Saddam Hussein; and has been since his removal from office. After the invasion of Iraq in 2003, U.S. administrator, L. Paul Bremer, suspended capital punishment on June 10, declaring that \"the former regime used certain provisions of the penal code as a means of oppression, in violation of internationally acknowledged human rights.\"\n\nOn August 8, 2004, capital punishment was reinstated in Iraq. Iraqi law states that no person over the age of 70 can be executed, despite people like Tariq Aziz, sentenced to death at the age of 74. There is an automatic right to appeal on all such sentences. Iraqi Law requires execution within 30 days of all legal avenues being exhausted. The last legal step, before the execution proceeds, is for the condemned to be handed a \"red card\". This is completed by an official of the court with details of the judgment and a notice that execution is imminent.\n\nIn September 2005, three murderers were the first people to be executed since the restoration. Then on March 9, 2006, an official of Iraq's Supreme Judicial Council confirmed that Iraqi authorities had executed the first insurgents by hanging.\n\n27 people, including one woman, were executed by the Iraqi government on September 6, 2006, for high crimes against civilians.\n\nOn January 19, 2012, 34 people were executed in a single day. Early in October 2013, 42 people convicted of terrorism charges were hanged over the course of two days. By that date a total of 132 people had been executed in 2013.\n\nIn July 2016, Iraqi Prime Minister Haider Al-Abadi ordered the execution of all terrorists condemned in the country following the Baghdad suicide truck bombing which killed over 250 people at a mall in Karrada, Baghdad.\n\nIraq carried out at least 88 executions in 2016, and at least 125 in 2017.\n\nAfter the defeat of ISIS in Mosul in 2017, Iraq tried and sentenced captured terrorists to death in large numbers.\n\nSaddam Hussein was sentenced to death by hanging for crimes against humanity on November 5, 2006, and was executed on December 30, 2006 at approximately 6:00 a.m. local time. During the drop there was an audible crack indicating that his neck was broken, a successful example of a long drop hanging.\n\nBy contrast, Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti, the head of the Mukhabarat, Saddam's security agency, and Awad Hamed al-Bandar, former chief judge, were executed on January 15, 2007, also by the long drop method, but Barzan was decapitated by the rope at the end of his fall indicating that the drop was too long, relative to his body weight.\n\nAlso, former vice-president Taha Yassin Ramadan had been sentenced to life in prison on November 5, 2006, but the sentence was changed to death by hanging on February 12, 2007. He was the fourth and final man to be executed for the 1982 crimes against humanity on March 20, 2007. This time, the execution went smoothly and without obvious mistake or problem.\n\nAt the Anfal genocide trial, Saddam's cousin Ali Hassan al-Majid (aka Chemical Ali), former defense minister Sultan Hashim Ahmed al-Tay, and former deputy Hussein Rashid Mohammed were sentenced to hang for their role in the Al-Anfal Campaign against the Kurds on June 24, 2007. Al-Majid was sentenced to death three more times: once for the 1991 suppression of a Shi'a uprising along with Abdul-Ghani Abdul Ghafur on December 2, 2008; once for the 1999 crackdown in the assassination of Grand Ayatollah Mohammad al-Sadr on March 2, 2009; and once on January 17, 2010 for the gassing of the Kurds in 1988; he was hanged on January 25.\n\nOn October 26, Saddam's top minister Tariq Aziz was sentenced to hang for persecuting the members of rival Shi'a political parties. However, Aziz died of a heart attack on June 5, 2015, before he could be hanged.\n\nOn July 14, 2011, Sultan Hashim Ahmed al-Tay and two of Saddam's half-brothers -- Sabawi Ibrahim al-Tikriti and Watban Ibrahim al-Tikriti (both condemned to death on March 11, 2009 for the role in the executions of 42 traders who were accused of manipulating food prices) -- were handed over to the Iraqi authorities for execution.\n"}
{"id": "59177273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59177273", "title": "Charlie Booth (footballer)", "text": "Charlie Booth (footballer)\n\nCharles Booth was an English football right half who played in the Football League for Glossop.\n\nIn September 1916, over two years since the outbreak of the First World War, Booth enlisted in the Royal Navy. He served as a Stoker 1st Class on HMS Albion.\n"}
{"id": "617935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=617935", "title": "Cloudesley Shovell", "text": "Cloudesley Shovell\n\nAdmiral of the Fleet Sir Cloudesley Shovell (c. November 1650 – 22 October or 23 October 1707) was an English naval officer. As a junior officer he saw action at the Battle of Solebay and then at the Battle of Texel during the Third Anglo-Dutch War. As a captain he fought at the Battle of Bantry Bay during the Williamite War in Ireland.\n\nAs a flag officer Shovell commanded a division at the Battle of Barfleur during the Nine Years' War and during the battle distinguished himself by being the first to break through the enemy's line. Along with Admiral Henry Killigrew and Admiral Ralph Delaval, Shovell was put in joint command of the fleet shortly afterwards.\n\nDuring the War of the Spanish Succession Shovell commanded a squadron which served under Admiral George Rooke at the capture of Gibraltar and the Battle of Málaga. Working in conjunction with a landing force under the Earl of Peterborough his forces undertook the siege and capture of Barcelona. He was appointed commander-in-chief of the Navy while at Lisbon the following year. He also commanded the naval element of a combined attack on Toulon, base of the main French fleet, in coordination with the Austrian army under Prince Eugene of Savoy in the summer of 1707. His life was brought to an end in a disastrous shipwreck in the Isles of Scilly later that year. He also served as MP for Rochester from 1695 to 1701 and from 1705 until his death in 1707.\n\nBorn in Cockthorpe, the son of John Shovell, a Norfolk gentleman, and Anne Shovell (née Jenkinson), Shovell was born into a family 'of property and distinction' which, although not poor, was by no means wealthy. The unusual first name of Cloudesley derives from the surname of his maternal grandmother Lucy Cloudisley, who was the daughter of Thomas Cloudisley.\n\nHe went to sea as a cabin boy in the care of a paternal relative, Admiral Sir Christopher Myngs, in 1663. After Myngs' death he remained at sea in the care of Admiral Sir John Narborough. Promoted to midshipman on 22 January 1672, he was assigned to the first-rate HMS \"Royal Prince\", flagship of the Duke of York, and saw action when a combined British and French fleet was surprised and attacked by the Dutch, led by Admiral Michiel de Ruyter, at the Battle of Solebay off the Suffolk coast in May 1672, during the Third Anglo-Dutch War.\n\nPromoted to master's mate on 17 September 1672, Shovell transferred to the third-rate HMS \"Fairfax\" later that month and then moved to the third-rate HMS \"Henrietta\" in November 1672. He saw action again when a combined British and French fleet attempting to land troops in the Netherlands was repelled by a smaller Dutch force, again led by Admiral de Ruyter, at the Battle of Texel in August 1673. Promoted to lieutenant on 25 September 1673, he transferred to the third-rate HMS \"Harwich\" in 1675 and took part in an action against the pirate stronghold at Tripoli. Shovell led a surprise attack on the pirates, sinking a number of their ships in January 1676. For this action he received the sum of £80 from Narborough. Two months later he undertook a second raid against the pirates, for which he was awarded a gold medal from King Charles II. In a letter from the Admiralty, Samuel Pepys recorded the King's satisfaction with Shovell’s actions; he transferred to the third-rate HMS \"Plymouth\" in May 1677 and was sent to the Mediterranean.\nPromoted to captain 17 September 1677, Shovell was given command of the fifth-rate HMS \"Sapphire\". He transferred to the fourth-rate HMS \"Phoenix\" in April 1679 and returned to HMS \"Sapphire\" in May 1679 before transferring to the fifth-rate HMS \"Nonsuch\" in July 1680. He returned to HMS \"Sapphire\" again in September 1680 and then transferred to the sixth-rate HMS \"James Galley\" in April 1681, to the third-rate HMS \"Anne\" in April 1687 and to the fourth-rate HMS \"Dover\" in April 1688. Throughout this period Shovell was engaged in the defence of Tangier from Salé raiders.\n\nShovell transferred to the command of the third-rate HMS \"Edgar\" in April 1689 and saw action at the Battle of Bantry Bay in May 1689, when a French fleet tried to land troops in Southern Ireland to fight Prince William of Orange during the Williamite War in Ireland. After the battle, Commodore John Ashby and Shovell were knighted. He transferred to the third-rate HMS \"Monck\" in October 1689 and ordered to patrol the area between Ireland and the Isles of Scilly. In June 1690 he was commodore of a small squadron, which convoyed King William across St George's Channel to Carrickfergus.\n\nPromoted to rear-admiral on 3 June 1690, Shovell hoisted his flag in the first-rate HMS \"Royal William\". He provided naval support for Percy Kirke's Capture of Waterford in July 1690. He commanded a division of the Red squadron at the Battles of Barfleur and La Hogue in May 1692, in which Russell's Anglo-Dutch fleet intercepted and defeated the French fleet under Tourville, on its way along the Channel to provide an escort for an invasion of England. At Barfleur Shovell's flagship was the first ship to break through the enemy's line, and in the latter stages of the battle he organised a fireship attack. He received a wound in the thigh during the action, which later incapacitated him during preparations for the attack which destroyed the French ships that had taken refuge at La Hogue. Along with Admirals Henry Killigrew and Ralph Delaval, Shovell was put in joint command of the fleet in January 1693. After the disastrous attack on the Smyrna convoy off Lagos, Portugal, in June 1693, all three admirals were dismissed from their joint command. Promoted to vice admiral on 16 April 1694, Shovell commanded a squadron on expeditions to Dieppe and Dunkirk, later in the year.\n\nShovell set up residence with his wife at May Place in Crayford in 1694 and was elected Member of Parliament for Rochester in 1695. He was responsible for the restoration of St. Paulinus' Church in Crayford and was a great benefactor to Rochester, providing at his own expense the fine decorated plaster ceilings in the Guildhall and the market bell, clock and decorated brick facade for the Butchers' Market (now the Corn Exchange). He was also Commissioner of the Sewers, responsible for the upkeep of the embankments of the Thames between Deptford and Gravesend. He did not stand for re-election to Parliament in December 1701.\n\nPromoted to full admiral on 6 May 1702, Shovell brought home the spoils of the French and Spanish fleets, which had been captured by Admiral George Rooke at the Battle of Vigo at an early stage of the War of the Spanish Succession, arriving in England in late 1702. After commanding a fleet dispatched to take troops to Lisbon in Spring 1703, he commanded a squadron which served under Rooke at the capture of Gibraltar in August 1704 and also repulsed the French fleet at the Battle of Málaga later that month. He was appointed a member of the council of the Lord High Admiral (an office vested at that time in Prince George of Denmark) in December 1704, appointed Rear-Admiral of England on 26 December 1704 and promoted to Admiral of the Fleet on 13 January 1705.\n\nHe was elected Member of Parliament for Rochester again in 1705. Working in conjunction with a landing force under the Earl of Peterborough his forces undertook the siege and capture of Barcelona in September 1705. He was appointed commander-in-chief of the Navy while at Lisbon in November 1706. He commanded the naval element of a combined attack on Toulon, base of the main French fleet, in coordination with the Austrian army under Prince Eugene of Savoy in the summer of 1707. The allies failed to capture the city, but bombardment by Shovell's forces panicked the French into scuttling their own fleet. Shovell was subsequently ordered to bring his fleet home in late October 1707.\n\nWhile returning with the fleet to England after the campaign at Toulon, Shovell's flagship, the second-rate HMS \"Association\", struck the rocks near the Isles of Scilly at 8 pm on 22 October (2 November, by the modern calendar) 1707. HMS \"Association\" went down in three or four minutes, with none of the 800 men that were on board saved, according to sailors watching on the first-rate HMS \"St George\". Four large ships, HMS \"Association\", the third-rate HMS \"Eagle\", the fourth-rate HMS \"Romney\" and the fire ship HMS \"Firebrand\" all sank.\n\nWith nearly 2,000 sailors lost that night, the Scilly naval disaster was recorded as one of the greatest maritime disasters in British history. The cause of the disaster has often been represented as the navigators' inability accurately to calculate their longitude, although no public discussion of the events specifically raising the question of longitude is known, prior to a pamphlet published on the eve of Parliament's vote on the Longitude Act, seven years later.\n\nShovell's body and those of both his stepsons were all found in Porthellick Cove on St Mary's, almost from where his ship was wrecked. It was possible that Shovell left his flagship in one of its boats along with his two stepsons and the captain of HMS \"Association\", Edmund Loades, and that they were drowned while trying to get to shore.\n\nShovell's body was identified by the purser of the third-rate HMS \"Arundel\" who knew the admiral well. It was identified by \"a black mole under his left ear, also by the first joint of one of his forefingers being broken inwards. He had likewise a shot in his right arm, another in his left thigh\". Shovell was temporarily buried on the beach at Porthellick Cove. By order of Queen Anne the body was later exhumed and brought back in the fourth-rate HMS \"Salisbury\" to Plymouth, where it was embalmed by Dr James Yonge. It was later carried in state to London. During the journey from the West Country, large crowds turned out to pay their respects. He was interred in Westminster Abbey on 22 December 1707: his large marble monument in the south choir aisle was sculpted by Grinling Gibbons. Meanwhile, his two stepsons were buried in Old Town Church on St Mary’s.\n\nLocal legend has it that Shovell was alive, at least barely, when he reached the shore of Scilly at Porthellick Cove but was murdered by a woman for the sake of his priceless emerald ring, which had been given to him by a close friend, Captain James Lord Dursley. At that time, the Scillies had a wild and lawless reputation. It is claimed that the murder came to light only some thirty years later when the woman, on her deathbed, confessed to a clergyman to having killed the admiral and produced the stolen ring, which was sent back to Dursley. Several historians doubt the murder story as there is no indication that the ring was recovered and the legend stems from a romantic and unverifiable deathbed confession.\n\nAnother legend alleges that a common sailor on the flagship tried to warn Shovell that the fleet was off course but Shovell had him hanged at the yardarm for inciting mutiny. The story first appeared in the Scilly Isles in 1780, with the common sailor being a Scilly native, who recognized the waters as being close to home but was punished for warning the admiral. While it is possible that a sailor may have debated the vessel's location and feared for its fate (such debates were common upon entering the English Channel, as noted by Samuel Pepys in 1684), the story has been repeatedly discredited by naval scholars, who noted the lack of any evidence in contemporary documents, its fanciful stock conventions and dubious origins. After his death Shovell became a popular British hero.\n\nIn 1691 Shovell married Elizabeth, Lady Narborough (née Hill), the widow of his former commander, Rear Admiral Sir John Narborough. Through her, he had two stepsons (Sir John Narborough, 1st Baronet, and James Narborough) who both entered naval careers and died aged 23 and 22, at the sinking of HMS \"Association\" in October 1707. Shovell and his wife also had two daughters: Elizabeth and Anne. Elizabeth married Lord Romney, whilst Anne married John Blackwood.\n\n"}
{"id": "2368264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2368264", "title": "Connectionist expert system", "text": "Connectionist expert system\n\nConnectionist expert systems are artificial neural network (ANN) based expert systems where the ANN generates inferencing rules e.g., fuzzy-multi layer perceptron where linguistic and natural form of inputs are used. Apart from that, rough set theory may be used for encoding knowledge in the weights better and also genetic algorithms may be used to optimize the search solutions better. Symbolic reasoning methods may also be incorporated (see hybrid intelligent system). (Also see expert system, neural network, clinical decision support system.)\n\n"}
{"id": "318416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318416", "title": "Cruel and unusual punishment", "text": "Cruel and unusual punishment\n\nCruel and unusual punishment is a phrase describing punishment that is considered unacceptable due to the suffering, pain, or humiliation it inflicts on the person subjected to it.\n\nThere are generally tests that can serve as a guide to what cruel and unusual punishment is according to various legal textbooks in accordance with the law. These are:\n\nThese exact words were first used in the English Bill of Rights 1689. They were later also adopted in the United States by the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution (ratified 1791) and in the British Leeward Islands (1798). Very similar words, \"No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment\", appear in Article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on December 10, 1948. The right under a different formulation is also found in Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights (1950) and in Article 7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (1966). The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms (1982) also contains this fundamental right in section 12 and it is to be found in Article 4 (quoting the European Convention verbatim) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (2000). It is also found in Article 16 of the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (1984), and in Article 40 of the Constitution of Poland (1997). The Constitution of the Marshall Islands, in the sixth section of its Bill of Rights (Article 2), prohibits \"cruel and unusual punishment\", which it defines as: the death penalty; torture; \"inhuman and degrading treatment\"; and \"excessive fines or deprivations\".\n\nThe Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution states that \"cruel and unusual punishments [shall not be] inflicted.\" The general principles the United States Supreme Court relied on to decide whether or not a particular punishment was cruel and unusual were determined by Justice William Brennan. In \"Furman v. Georgia\", , Justice Brennan wrote, \"There are, then, four principles by which we may determine whether a particular punishment is 'cruel and unusual'.\"\n\nAnd he added: \"The function of these principles, after all, is simply to provide means by which a court can determine whether a challenged punishment comports with human dignity. They are, therefore, interrelated, and, in most cases, it will be their convergence that will justify the conclusion that a punishment is \"cruel and unusual.\" The test, then, will ordinarily be a cumulative one: if a punishment is unusually severe, if there is a strong probability that it is inflicted arbitrarily, if it is substantially rejected by contemporary society, and if there is no reason to believe that it serves any penal purpose more effectively than some less severe punishment, then the continued infliction of that punishment violates the command of the Clause that the State may not inflict inhuman and uncivilized punishments upon those convicted of crimes.\"\n\nContinuing, he wrote that he expected that no state would pass a law obviously violating any one of these principles, so court decisions regarding the Eighth Amendment would involve a \"cumulative\" analysis of the implication of each of the four principles. In this way the United States Supreme Court \"set the standard that a punishment would be cruel and unusual [,if] it was too severe for the crime, [if] it was arbitrary, if it offended society's sense of justice, or if it was not more effective than a less severe penalty.\"\n\nThere is great discussion as to whether capital punishment is cruel and unusual. Common arguments are that capital punishment is more expensive when factoring in appeals versus life in prison, and that the government has been wrong before on death penalty cases (therefore, the government could be wrong again, and the government ought not have the authority to end a life). These two arguments alone may or may not qualify under the tests the government puts forth, which could also be considered arbitrary itself, especially if society is not informed enough on these considerable facts. For most of recorded history, capital punishments were often deliberately cruel and painful. Severe historical execution methods include the breaking wheel, hanged, drawn and quartered, mazzatello, boiling to death, death by burning, execution by drowning, death by starvation, immurement, flaying, disembowelment, crucifixion, impalement, crushing, execution by elephant, keelhauling, stoning, dismemberment, sawing, scaphism, slow slicing, blood eagle, bamboo torture and necklacing.\n\nIn 2008, Michael Portillo on the show \"Horizon\" argued that in ensuring an execution is not of a cruel and unusual nature, the following criteria must be met:\n\nThe show argued that hypoxia appears to meet the criteria, by way of applying a combination of the gases argon and nitrogen, as the person being executed would not feel any physical pain but would experience a euphoric state. It was further argued that these gases could be applied cheaply and efficiently by restraining the prisoner by way of physical restraints and mask.\n\n"}
{"id": "3239865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3239865", "title": "Discharge (sentence)", "text": "Discharge (sentence)\n\nA discharge is a type of sentence where no punishment is imposed, and which (by law in some Commonwealth realms, and arguably in others) vitiates the court's guilty verdict, thus resulting in a non-conviction. \n\nAn absolute discharge is an unconditional discharge where the Court finds that a crime has technically been committed, but that any punishment of the defendant would be inappropriate, and the case is closed. In some jurisdictions, an absolute discharge means there is no conviction on the defendant's record, despite the plea of the defendant.\n\nA conditional discharge is an order made by a criminal court whereby an offender will not be sentenced for an offence unless a further offence is committed within a stated period. Once the stated period has elapsed and no further offence is committed then the conviction may be removed from the defendant's record.\n\nIn Australia, offenders can be discharged with or without being convicted, and with or without being placed on a good behaviour bond (or other conditions). These sentencing options vary from state to state. Note that defendants can be discharged without conviction even if they plead guilty to the alleged crime.\n\nIn Canada, a conditional discharge is a sentence passed in criminal court in which an individual is found guilty of an offence but is deemed not to have been convicted. Although a discharge is not considered a conviction, a record of an absolute or conditional discharge is kept by Canadian Police Information Centre (CPIC) and by the charging police agency and is purged from the individual's police record after a period of time: one year in the case of an absolute discharge, three years for a conditional one. The Criminal Records Act states that, except in exceptional circumstances, if the discharge is conditional, no record may be disclosed after three years. While no conviction occurs, the offender is required to fulfill certain conditions as part of the sentence. The offender is put on probation for a period of up to three years. If the offender fails to meet the conditions of the probation, or commits another criminal offence during the probation period, they may be returned to court where the discharge is cancelled and receive a criminal conviction and sentence on the original offence, and for breach of probation.\n\nIf the conditions of the discharge are met it becomes an absolute discharge.\n\nA court may grant a conditional or absolute discharge only for offences with no minimum penalty, and a maximum penalty of less than fourteen years.\n\nIn New Zealand, offenders can be \"convicted and discharged\" (gets a criminal record, but no other punishment) or \"discharged without conviction\" (no punishment and no criminal record). Note that defendants can be discharged without conviction even if they plead guilty to the alleged crime. This is usually done in cases where the negative impact of a conviction far outweigh the crime committed. For example, if a high-end businessman is caught in possession of a small quantity of marijuana, due to the small nature of the crime compared to the effects a conviction (even without a sentence) would have, he may be discharged without conviction.\n\nIn England and Wales, a conditional discharge is a sentence vitiating the finding of guilt, in which the offender receives no punishment provided that, in a period set by the court (not more than three years), no further offence is committed. If an offence is committed in that time, then the offender may also be re-sentenced for the offence for which a conditional discharge was given. Pursuant section 14 of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 and R v Patel [2006] EWCA Crim 2689 the conditional discharge does not constitute a conviction unless the individual breaches the conditional discharge and is re-sentenced.\n\nAbsolute discharge is a lesser sentence imposed by a court, in which no penalty is imposed at all. Exceptionally, however, a court occasionally grants an absolute discharge for a very serious offence. (The signalman in the Thirsk rail crash, who was found guilty of manslaughter, is an example of this.) This usually signifies that while a crime may technically have been committed, the imposition of any punishment would, in the opinion of the judge or magistrates, be inappropriate.\n\nIn both cases, the passing of a discharge does not prevent the court from ordering the defendant to pay compensation to a victim, to pay a contribution towards the prosecution's costs, or to be disqualified from driving. A court may grant a discharge only if it is \"inexpedient to inflict punishment\", and may not do so for certain firearms offences or \"three strikes\" offenders. The law on discharges is set out in sections 12 to 15 of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000.\n\nIn 2008, 9,734 offenders were given absolute discharges (0.7% of sentences) and 87,722 offenders were given conditional discharges (6% of sentences).\n\nIn Scots law, there is no conditional discharge similar to that in England and Wales, although admonition has a similar effect with a conviction recorded although there is no punishment. However, section 246 of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 provides that in dealing with cases other than where the sentence is fixed by law (e.g. murder)\n\n\nSection 247 further provides that an absolute discharge shall be deemed not to be a conviction for any purpose other than the purposes of the proceedings in which the order is made and of laying it before a court as a previous conviction in subsequent proceedings for another offence, and shall in any event be disregarded for the purposes of any enactment which imposes any disqualification or disability upon convicted persons, or authorises or requires the imposition of any such disqualification or disability. However, courts can consider previous absolute discharges in the same way as they consider previous convictions.\n\nThe concept of absolute or conditional discharge does not exist, as such, in United States law. However, different jurisdictions within the United States have a variety of analogues. The most direct is the suspended sentence or sentencing to \"time served\", meaning time spent in custody until sentencing. Many or most states also have alternative forms of adjudication for which a defendant may apply. These measures are typically available only to first offenders facing non-felony charges, and typically exclude certain types of charges, depending on the state. Such possibilities often include a guilty plea followed by a special form of probation, upon successful completion of which the public record of the case is sealed and the offender's criminal record expunged.\n"}
{"id": "27258702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27258702", "title": "Elvira Fernández de Córdoba y Manrique", "text": "Elvira Fernández de Córdoba y Manrique\n\nElvira Fernández de Córdoba y Manrique (died 1524) was a Spanish noblewoman, the only surviving daughter of Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba, a Spanish general involved with the Italian Wars and viceroy of Naples from 1503 to 1507.\n\nIn 1518 she married a cousin, Luis Fernández de Córdoba.\n\nElvira Fernández de Córdoba y Manrique died quite young in childbirth in 1524, and her husband Luis, also quite young, in Rome, Italy, in 1526.\n\n"}
{"id": "4753393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4753393", "title": "Enguerrand III, Lord of Coucy", "text": "Enguerrand III, Lord of Coucy\n\nEnguerrand III de Boves, Lord of Coucy (c.1182–1242) was the eldest son and successor of Ralph I, Lord of Coucy (c. 1134 – 1191) and Alix de Dreux. He succeeded as Lord of Coucy (\"sieur de Couci\") in 1191, and held it until his death; he was also lord of Marle and Boves.\n\nEnguerrand III was born in Marle, Picardy, France. He became one of the most ambitious and powerful of all the French nobles, called by one historian \"the greatest baron in all Picardy\", and earning himself his epithet, \"Enguerrand le Grand\", or Enguerrand \"the Great\".\n\nEnguerrand had an illustrious military career, helping King Philip II of France reduce the French territories of the King of England. Enguerrand campaigned in Anjou in 1205, and in 1214, fought in the French victory over an Anglo-German alliance at the Battle of Bouvines. His arms at Bouvines were blazoned: \"Barry of six vair and gules.\" He was a notable member of the French force which invaded the Kingdom of England (1216–1217) to depose King John. He also participated in the Albigensian Crusade.\n\nAfter the death of King Louis VIII of France, Enguerrand was chief among the nobles who resisted the regency of Blanche of Castile for her son Louis IX of France, although he eventually returned to the royal favour. Enguerrand made his mark on the Picardy landscape by constructing Coucy Castle. \n\nEnguerrand is said by tradition to have started the famous rhyme associated with his successors:\n\nThrough his mother Alix de Dreux, Enguerrand III was related to King Louis IX of France. Enguerrand also married into the family of King Henry III of England, taking as his second wife the latter king's cousin, who was the granddaughter of King Henry II of England. He married three times.\n\nHis first wife was Beatrice de Vignory, widow of John I, Count of Roucy (1196–1200). They married in 1201. There are no known children from this marriage.\n\nHis second wife was Matilda (or Richenza) of Bavaria (1172–1209), a daughter of Henry the Lion, Duke of Bavaria and Saxony, by his second wife, Matilda of England, daughter of King Henry II. Matilda of Bavaria was thus also the niece of King Richard the Lion-hearted. This marriage took place in 1204. There are no known children from this marriage.\n\nHis third wife was Marie de Montmirail (), daughter of Jean de Montmirail, Lord of Condé . At the end of the 12th century, Enguerrand built the original Château de Condé in Condé, Picardy, constructed as a \"keep\" which had 2 meters thick walls and towering chimneys. Enguerrand and Marie had five children:\n\nIn 1242, Enguerrand III died by falling off of his horse onto his sword at Coucy, Picardy. He was succeeded by his eldest son, Raoul II.\n\n"}
{"id": "39830246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39830246", "title": "Evolving digital ecological networks", "text": "Evolving digital ecological networks\n\nEvolving digital ecological networks are webs of interacting, self-replicating, and evolving computer programs (i.e., digital organisms) that experience the same major ecological interactions as biological organisms (e.g., competition, predation, parasitism, and mutualism). Despite being computational, these programs evolve quickly in an open-ended way, and starting from only one or two ancestral organisms, the formation of ecological networks can be observed in real-time by tracking interactions between the constantly evolving organism phenotypes. These phenotypes may be defined by combinations of logical computations (hereafter tasks) that digital organisms perform and by expressed behaviors that have evolved. The types and outcomes of interactions between phenotypes are determined by task overlap for logic-defined phenotypes and by responses to encounters in the case of behavioral phenotypes. Biologists use these evolving networks to study active and fundamental topics within evolutionary ecology (e.g., the extent to which the architecture of multispecies networks shape coevolutionary outcomes, and the processes involved).\n\nIn nature, species do not evolve in isolation but in large networks of interacting species. One of the main goals in evolutionary ecology is to disentangle the evolutionary mechanisms that shape and are shaped by patterns of interaction between species. A particularly important question concerns how coevolution, the reciprocal evolutionary change in local populations of interacting species driven by natural selection, is shaped by the architecture of food webs, plant-animal mutualistic networks, and host-parasite communities. The concept of diffuse coevolution, where adaptation is in response to a suite of biotic interactions, was the first step towards a framework unifying relevant theories in community ecology and coevolution. Understanding how individual interactions within networks influence coevolution, and conversely how coevolution influences the overall structure of networks, requires an appreciation for how pair-wise interactions change due to their broader community contexts as well as how this community context shapes selective pressures. Accordingly, research is now focusing on how reciprocal selection influences and is embedded within the structure of multispecies interactive webs, not only on particular species in isolation.\n\nCoevolution in a community context can be addressed theoretically via mathematical modeling and simulation, by looking at ancient footprints of evolutionary history via ecological patterns that persist and are observable today, and by performing laboratory experiments with microorganisms. In spite of the long time scales involved and the substantial effort that is necessary to isolate and quantify samples, the latter approach of testing biological evolution in the lab has been successful over the last two decades. However, studying the evolution of interspecific interactions, which involves dealing with more complex webs of multiple interacting species, has proven to be a much more difficult challenge. A meta-analysis of host-phage interaction networks, carried out by Weitz and his team, found a striking statistical structure to the patterns of infection and resistance across a wide variety of environments and methods from which the hosts and phage were obtained. However, the ecological mechanisms and evolutionary processes responsible have yet to be unraveled.\n\nDigital ecological networks enable the direct, comprehensive, and real time observation of evolving ecological interactions between antagonistic and/or mutualistic digital organisms that are difficult to study in nature. Research using self-replicating computer programs can help us understand how coevolution shapes the emergence and diversification of coevolving species interaction networks and, in turn, how changes in the overall structure of the web (e.g., through extinction of taxa or the introduction of invasive species) affect the evolution of a given species. Studying the evolution of species interaction networks in these artificial evolving systems also contributes to the development of the field, while overcoming limitations evolutionary biologists may face. For example, laboratory studies have shown that historical contingency can enable or impede the outcome of the interactions between bacteria and phage, depending on the order in which mutations occur: the phage often, but not always, evolve the ability to infect a novel host. Therefore, in order to obtain statistical power for predicting such outcomes of the coevolutionary process, experiments require a high level of replication. This stochastic nature of the evolutionary process was exemplified by Stephen Jay Gould's inquiry (\"What would happen if the tape of the history of life were rewound and replayed?\") Because of their ease in scalability and replication, evolving digital ecological networks open the door to experiments that incorporate this approach of \"replaying the tape of life\". Such experiments allow researchers to quantify the role of historical contingency and repeatability in network evolution, enabling predictions about the architecture and dynamics of large networks of interacting species.\n\nThe inclusion of ecological interactions in digital systems enables new research avenues: investigations using self-replicating computer programs complement laboratory efforts by broadening the breadth of viable experiments focused on the emergence and diversification of coevolving interactions in complex communities. This cross-disciplinary research program provides fertile grounds for new collaborations between computer scientists and evolutionary biologists.\n\nThe field of digital life was inspired by the rampant computer viruses of the 1980s. These viruses were self-replicating computer programs that spread from one computer to another, but they did not evolve. Steen Rasmussen was the first to include the possibility of mutation in self-replicating computer programs by extending the once-popular Core War game, where programs competed in a digital battle ground for the computer's resources. Although Rasmussen observed some interesting evolution, mutations in this early genetic programming language produced many unstable organisms, thus prohibiting scientific experiments. Just one year later, Thomas S. Ray developed an alternative system, Tierra, and performed the first successful experiments with evolving populations of self-replicating computer programs.\n\nThomas S. Ray created a genetic language similar to earlier digital systems, but added several key features that made it more suitable for evolution in his artificial life system, Tierra. Primarily, he prevented instructions from writing beyond the \"privately\" allocated memory space, thus limiting the potential for organisms writing over others. The only selective pressure in Tierra was for rapid self-replication. Over the course of evolution, this pressure led to shorter and shorter genomes, reducing the time spent copying instructions during replication. Some individuals even started executing the replication code in other organisms, allowing those \"cheaters\", which were originally referred to as parasites in Ray's work, to further shrink their genetic programs. This form of cheating was the first evolved ecological interaction between organisms in artificial life software. Ray's cheaters pre-dated the formal study of evolving ecological interactions using Tierra-like digital evolution platforms by 20 years.\n\nIn 1993, Christoph Adami, Charles Ofria, and C. Titus Brown created the artificial life platform Avida at the California Institute of Technology. They added the ability for digital organisms to obtain bonus CPU cycles for performing computational tasks, like adding two numbers together. In Avida, researchers can define the available tasks and set the consequences for organisms upon successful calculation. When organisms are rewarded with additional CPU cycles, their replication rate increases. Since Avida was designed specifically as a scientific tool, it allows users to collect a comprehensive suite of data about evolving populations. Due to its flexibility and data tracking abilities, Avida has become the most widely used digital system for studying evolution. The Devolab at the BEACON Center currently continues development of Avida.\n\nDigital organisms in Avida are self-replicating computer programs with a genome composed of assembly-like instructions. The genetic programming language in Avida contains instructions for manipulating values in registers and stacks as well as for control flow and mathematical operations. Each digital organism contains virtual hardware on which its genome is executed. To reproduce, digital organisms must copy their genome instruction by instruction into a new region of memory through a potentially noisy channel that may lead to errors (i.e., mutations). While most mutations are detrimental, mutants will occasionally have higher fitness than their parents, thereby providing the basis for natural selection with all of the necessary components for Darwinian evolution. Digital organisms can acquire random binary numbers from the environment and are able to manipulate them using their genetic instructions, including the logic instruction \"NAND\". With only this instruction, digital organisms can compute any other task by stringing together various operations because NAND is a universal logic function. If the output of processing random numbers from the environment corresponds to the result of a particular logic task, then that task is incorporated into the set of tasks the organism performs, which in turn, defines part of its phenotype.\n\nInteractions between digital organisms occur through phenotypic matching, which, in the case of task-based phenotypes, results from the performance of overlapping logic functions. Different mechanisms for mapping phenotypic matching to interactions can be implemented, depending on the antagonistic or mutualistic nature of the interaction.\n\nIn host-parasite interactions, the parasite organisms benefits at the expense of the host organisms. Parasites in Avida are implemented just like other self-replicating digital organisms, but they live inside hosts and execute parasitic threads using CPU cycles stolen from their hosts. Because parasites impose a cost (lost CPU cycles) on hosts, there is selection for resistance, and when resistance starts to spread in a population, there is selective pressure for parasites to infect those new resistant hosts. Infection occurs when both the parasite and host perform at least one overlapping task. Thus a host is resistant to a particular parasite if they do not share any tasks. This mechanism of infection mimics the inverse-gene-for-gene model, in which infection only occurs if a host susceptibility gene (the presence of a logic task) is matched by a parasite virulence gene (a parasite performing the same task). Additional infection mechanisms, such as the matching allele and gene-for-gene models, can also be implemented.\n\nIn traditional infection genetic models, host resistance and pathogen infectivity have associated costs. These costs are an important part of theory about why defense genes do not always fix rapidly within populations. Costs are also present in digital host-parasite interactions: performing more or more complex tasks implies larger genomes and hence slower reproduction. Tasks may also allow organisms access to resources present in the abiotic environment, and the environment can be carefully manipulated to control the relative costs or benefits of resistance.\n\nBy keeping track of task-based phenotypes as well as tracking information about successful infections in the community, researchers are able to perfectly reconstruct the interaction networks of digital coevolving hosts and parasites. The structure of these networks is a result of the interplay between ecological processes, mainly host abundance, and coevolutionary dynamics, which lead to changes in host specificity.\n\nInteractions in which both species obtain mutual benefit, such as those between flowering plants and pollinators, and birds and fleshy fruits, can be implemented in evolving digital experiments by following the same task matching approach used for host-parasite interactions, but using free-living organisms instead of parasitic threads. For example, one way to set up a plant-pollinator type of interaction is to use an environment containing two mutually exclusive resources: one designated for \"plant\" organisms and one for \"pollinator\" organisms. Similar to parasites attempting infection, if tasks overlap between a pollinator and a plant it visits, pollination is successful and both organisms obtain extra CPU cycles. Thus, these digital organisms obtain mutual benefit when they perform at least one common task, and more common tasks lead to larger mutual benefits. While this is one specific way to enable mutualistic interactions, many others are possible in Avida. Interactions that begin as parasitic may even evolve to be mutualistic under the right conditions. In most cases, coevolution will result in concurrent interactions between multiple phenotypes. Thus, observed networks of mutualistic interactions can inform our understanding about the outcomes and processes of coevolution in complex communities.\n\nWhile host-parasite and mutualistic interactions are determined by task-based phenotypes, predator-prey interactions are determined by behavior. Predators are digital organisms that have evolved from ancestral prey phenotypes to locate, attack, and consume organisms. When a predator executes an attack instruction (acquired through mutation), it kills a neighboring organism. When predators kill prey, they gain resources required for reproduction (e.g., CPU cycles) proportional to the level accumulated by the consumed prey. Selection favors behavioral strategies in prey that enable them to avoid being eaten. At the same time, selection favors predators with behavioral strategies that improve their food finding and prey attacking abilities. The resulting diversity in the continuously evolving behavioral phenotypes creates dynamic predator-prey interaction networks in which selective forces are constantly changing as a consequence of the emergence of new, and loss of old, behaviors. Because predators and prey move around in and use information about their environment, these experiments are typically carried out using spatially structured populations. On the other hand, host-parasite and mutualistic coevolution are often done in well-mixed environments, though the choice of the environment is at the discretion of the experimenter.\n\nUnderstanding how biodiversity is organized in natural ecosystems requires going beyond the study of pairs of interacting species. Using digital organisms, one can find generalities about the evolutionary and ecological processes shaping the web of interactions among species, as well as the coevolutionary processes embedded within these networks. By tracing the evolution of digital communities and their ecological networks, researchers obtain perfect \"fossil records\" of how the number and patterns of links among interacting phenotypes evolved.\n\nThe stability-diversity debate is a long-standing debate about whether more diverse ecological networks are also more stable. Until recently, this debate has focused on one component of biodiversity: species diversity. However, newer research has begun dealing with another component of biodiversity: diversity in species interactions. Mathematical models show that a mixture of antagonistic and mutualistic interactions can stabilize population dynamics and that the loss of one interaction type may critically destabilize ecosystems. Studies with digital organisms can shed light on this debate from an empirical perspective because the types of interactions included can be manipulated and the stability of the resulting evolving digital ecological network can be measured.\n\nEqually addressable using evolving digital ecological networks are many of the open questions concerning the coevolution of ecological interactions in multispecies communities. For example, do coevolutionary dynamics change as communities become richer? Is there any limit to their richness? Is the evolution of interactions between multispecies networks historically contingent? Why do some ecological scenarios lead to predictable network structures and others do not? Do genetic constraints play a large role in the evolution of ecological networks? These are only a few of many open questions concerning the coevolution of ecological interactions in multispecies communities.\n\nThese and many related questions require researchers to look across the evolutionary history of ecological network formation. For natural systems, those data are very difficult to collect. With digital organisms, watching both the coevolutionary process and ecological network formation is possible in real time. Data on the abundance of interacting phenotypes are recorded without error, hence the evolutionary implications of ecological processes can be explored in-depth.\n\nThe study of self-replicating and evolving computer programs offers a tantalizing glimpse into the evolution of interactions among organisms that do not share any ancestry with biochemical life of Earth. This comes with potential caveats in translating predictions of evolving digital networks to biological ones because mechanistic details differ substantially between interacting digital organisms and interacting biological organisms. Nevertheless, these digital networks contain the necessary components for ongoing coevolutionary dynamics in large webs of interacting organisms. In spite of the differences between biological and digital evolution, the study of evolving digital ecological networks can lead to a more predictive understanding of natural dynamics. Because the general operational processes (e.g., Darwinian evolution, mutualism, parasitism) do not differ, studies utilizing digital networks can uncover rules operating on and within ecological networks. Together with microbial experiments, they create opportunities for furthering the understanding of the interplay between ecological and evolutionary processes among interacting species.\n"}
{"id": "55117437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55117437", "title": "Experiment (1802 EIC ship)", "text": "Experiment (1802 EIC ship)\n\nExperiment was launched in 1802 and was immediately taken up by the British East India Company (EIC), as an \"extra ship\" on a multi-voyage charter. She made three voyages for the EIC and disappeared without a trace while homeward bound on her fourth voyage in the same storm that claimed two other East Indiamen.\n\nEIC voyage #1 (1803-1804): Captain James Carnegie acquired a letter of marque on 15 October 1803. He sailed from the Downs on 10 February 1803, bound for Bombay. \"Experiment\" reached Johanna on 13 May and arrived at Bombay on 7 June. Homeward bound, she reached St Helena on 14 November and Cork on 18 January 1804, before arriving at Blackwall on 15 February.\n\nEIC voyage #2 (1804-1805): Captain Peter Campbell acquired a letter of marque on 4 May 1804. He sailed from Portsmouth on 9 June 1804. \"Experiment\" reached Madeira on 5 July and arrived at Bombay on 11 December.\n\nAt Bombay \"Experiment\" took on part of a cargo of tea that had brought. \"Brunswick\" had had to put into Bombay for repairs while homeward bound from China. The EIC's Court of Directors decided to transship her cargo and send her back to China after the repairs had been completed.\n\nOn her homeward journey \"Experiment\" reached Tellicherry on 23 February 1805, Anjengo on 6 March, and St Helena on 23 June. She arrived at Blackwall on 18 September.\n\nEIC voyage #3 (1806-1807): Captain James Normand acquired a letter of marque on 26 March 1806. He sailed from Portsmouth on 14 May 1806, bound for Bombay. \"Experiment\" reached False Bay on 6 August and arrived at Bombay on 6 October. Homeward bound, she was at the Cape of Good Hope on 16 February 1807 and St Helena on 9 March, and arrived at the Downs on 28 May.\n\nEIC voyage #4 (1807-Loss): Captain John Logan acquired a letter of marque on 21 August 1807. He sailed from Portsmouth on 17 September 1807, bound for Madras and Bengal. The homeward bound fleet left Bengal on 25 October 1808. She, , and parted company with the fleet in a gale between 20 and 23 November, at . None of the three vessels was ever heard of again. The EIC declared that the value of its cargo on \"Experiment\" was £5,592.\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "5429605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5429605", "title": "Gary Chapman (swimmer)", "text": "Gary Chapman (swimmer)\n\nGary Arthur Chapman (12 March 1938 – 23 September 1978) was an Australian freestyle swimmer of the 1950s who won a bronze medal in the 100-metre freestyle at the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne. Although he had set a world record in the 220-yard freestyle, he was surprisingly omitted from the 4×200-metre freestyle relay team which won the gold medal.\n\nBorn in Brighton-Le-Sands, Sydney, Chapman first came to prominence in the 1952 Australian Championships, at the age of 14, when he cut 2.9 seconds off the 440-yard freestyle Australian record. In 1954, he sliced 12.8 seconds off the 880-yard record in qualifying for the Australian team at the 1954 Empire Games in Vancouver, where he won gold in the 440-yard freestyle and bronze in the 1650-yard freestyle. He also claimed gold in the 4×220-yard freestyle relay. In his era, the 220 and 880-yard freestyle were not contested as individual events.\n\nDue to the rise of fellow Australian Murray Rose in distance freestyle swimming, Chapman switched to competing in the 110 yd and 220-yard freestyle events in a bid to increase his chances of success at the 1956 Olympics in Melbourne. Prior to the games, he defeated teammate Jon Henricks twice in the 220-yard freestyle, setting a world record on one of those occasions.\n\nDue to the 200-metre freestyle not being an Olympic event, Chapman was forced to concentrate on the 100-metre freestyle. He won the bronze medal in 100-metre freestyle, finishing behind Henricks and another Australian, John Devitt. As the 220-yard freestyle world record, Chapman was snubbed by the selectors in the 4×200-metre freestyle relay, only swimming in the qualifying heats, but being replaced by Kevin O'Halloran in the final, where the Australians won the gold medal in a world record time. Under the rules of the time, heat swimmers were not entitled to gold medals.\n\nChapman continued in the sport despite this until the 1958 Empire Games in Cardiff, where he was edged out for gold in the 110-yard freestyle by Devitt, and managed to come only fifth in the 440-yard freestyle behind fellow Australian John Konrads. Chapman collected gold medals in the 4×220-yard freestyle and 4×110-yard medley relays.\n\nChapman retired after the 1958 Games. In 1978 he and a friend died after a boat belonging to him capsized near Little Bay, New South Wales, in the south of Sydney. Their bodies were never recovered.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51451583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51451583", "title": "George Burleigh (swimmer)", "text": "George Burleigh (swimmer)\n\nGeorge Burleigh (1914–1984) was a Canadian swimmer. He won gold at the Commonwealth Games in 1930 and 1934. and held Canadian freestyle swimming records in the 1930s.\n\nIn 1925, Burleigh began to swim at the West End YMCA in Toronto.\n\nFrom 1930 to 1938, Burleigh held every Canadian record in freestyle swimming ranging from the 50 yd freestyle to the mile freestyle. During this time period, he won a total of 7 medals at the British Empire Games.\n\nAfter ending his swimming career in 1938, Burleigh went to teach at the West End YMCA and retired in Wybridge, Ontario.\n\nBurleigh was inducted in the Canadian Olympic Hall of Fame in 1976. Posthumously, he was inducted in the Ontario Aquatic Hall of Fame in 2000 and Canada's Sports Hall of Fame in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "25496283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25496283", "title": "HMS Crane (1809)", "text": "HMS Crane (1809)\n\nHMS \"Crane\" was a Royal Navy \"Cruizer\" class brig-sloop launched in 1809. She had a completely and unusually uneventful five-year career before she foundered in 1814.\n\nShe was commissioned in September 1809 under Cmdr. James Stuart for the Irish station. Stuart captured two American vessels, the \"Asia\" of Boston and the \"Washington\" of Marblehead, on their way home from Archangel. He brought the crews into Horta, in the Azores, and released them to John B. Dabney, the American consul, who repatriated them. It is not at all clear why Stuart had detained the Americans.\n\nIn August 1811 Commander William Haydon took temporary command and sailed her for the Leeward Islands on 29 September 1812. Her next captain was Commander Thomas Forrest. In December 1813 Commander Robert Standly became her captain.\n\nOn 4 April 1814 \"Crane\" chased the American privateer \"Chasseur\", of 14 guns and 135 men, off St Kitts, but was unable to capture her. \n\n\"Crane\" was lost, presumed foundered with all hands, in September 1814 while \"en route\" from Bermuda to Canada.\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "52665763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52665763", "title": "Idewu Ojulari", "text": "Idewu Ojulari\n\nOba Idewu Ojulari (died c 1835) reigned as Oba of Lagos from 1829 to about 1834/5. His father was Oba Osinlokun and his siblings were Kosoko (who was Oba from 1845 to 1851) and Opo Olu, a wealthy and powerful female slave holder.\n\nIdewu Ojulari became Oba after his father Osilokun died in 1829. However, Idewu Ojulari's reign was unpopular and at the behest of the Oba of Benin, to whom the people of Lagos had petitioned, Idewu Ojulari committed suicide. Notably, Lagos had hitherto been under Benin suzerainty up until the reign of Oba Kosoko who was dethroned by British forces in 1851. Thereafter, Oba Akitoye and his successor, Oba Dosunmu, rebuffed payment of annual tributes to Benin.\n\nAccording to historian Kristin Mann, Idewu Ojulari's unpopularity may have been caused by the economic downturn in the slave trade following the prosperous years of Osinlokun's reign. His chiefs reportedly communicated their displeasure with Idewu to the Oba of Benin, who sent him a skull, a sword, and a message that \"the people of Lagos would no longer recognize him as their King\". Idewu Ojulari, recognizing the skull as an invitation to take poison and in the sword a call to battle, he committed suicide.\n"}
{"id": "21428998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21428998", "title": "Intelligent word recognition", "text": "Intelligent word recognition\n\nIntelligent Word Recognition, or IWR, is the recognition of unconstrained handwritten words. IWR recognizes entire handwritten words or phrases instead of character-by-character, like its predecessor, Optical Character Recognition (OCR). IWR technology matches handwritten or printed words to a user-defined dictionary, significantly reducing character errors encountered in typical character-based recognition engines. \n\nNew technology on the market utilizes IWR, OCR, and ICR together, which opens many doors for the processing of documents, either constrained (hand printed or machine printed) or unconstrained (freeform cursive). IWR also eliminates a large percentage of the manual data entry of handwritten documents that, in the past, could only be keyed by a human, creating an automated workflow.\n\nWhen cursive handwriting is in play, for each word analyzed, the system breaks down the words into a sequence of graphemes, or subparts of letters. These various curves, shapes and lines make up letters and IWR considers these various shape and groupings in order to calculate a confidence value associated with the word in question.\n\nIWR is not meant to replace ICR and OCR engines which work well with printed data; however, IWR reduces the number of character errors associated with these engines, and it is ideal for processing real-world documents that contain mostly freeform, hard-to-recognize data, inherently unsuitable for them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29619329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29619329", "title": "John Paterson (Cape politician)", "text": "John Paterson (Cape politician)\n\nJohn (\"Jock\") Paterson (1822 – 1880) was a prominent politician and successful businessman of the Cape Colony, and had a great influence on the development of Port Elizabeth where he was based. He ran newspapers, established the Grey Institute and played a significant role in founding South Africa's Standard Bank. As a politician he was somewhat less successful, playing a role in the failed separatist movement for a British ruled Eastern Cape in the 1870s and backing Carnarvon’s ill-fated confederation plan.\n\nBorn and raised in Aberdeen, Scotland, Paterson studied at Marischal university college and emigrated to Port Elizabeth in 1841 to take up a position as a school master. Later he successfully persuaded Sir George Grey, then the Governor of the Cape Colony, to take an interest in his proposals for new boys schools and Grey made land and funding available to Paterson for their founding.\n\nHe had a notoriously volatile temperament. On 7 May 1845, he secretly started his first business, the \"Eastern Province Herald\" newspaper, with his partner John R. Phillip as the official owner. As he was still contracted by the state this was an illegal activity so his involvement remained clandestine. After the two men fought, Paterson stopped publication in 1850 and started a new newspaper, the \"Eastern Province News\" which he soon renamed to the original name in 1854. He later sold the newspaper in 1857 to his friend Robert Godlonton who owned the \"Grahamstown Journal\", though he continued to use the paper as a platform for his opinions. Philip meanwhile had opened the competing \"Port Elizabeth Mercury\" newspaper.\n\nPaterson was however already a successful businessman. He had made a series of property investments on the outskirts of the expanding town of Port Elizabeth, and a range of other business enterprises. He also briefly served as the Consular Agent for the United States in Port Elizabeth, and gained much American business for his trading firm though this. \nHe had a lifelong interest in boys schools, and founded several in his life, including Grey High School, an elite school for boys in Port Elizabeth that he founded in 1856.\n\nPaterson's temperament led him to be intensely drawn to politics, from relatively early on. His early activity involved lobbying for increased European immigration, and the widespread anti-convict agitation of 1849.\n\nIn 1854 he was elected to the first Cape Parliament as one of the two members for Port Elizabeth (together with Henry Fancourt White). From the beginning of his political career he made the secession of the eastern part of the Cape Colony a priority. He felt very strongly that the Xhosa people of the eastern Cape frontier were a severe threat to the colonists' safety and that this threat was not helped by the Cape government's relaxed attitude to the frontier. The Cape Town parliament at the time was also dominated by liberals such as Saul Solomon who prevented the settlers of the eastern Cape from cheaply exploiting African labour. Deprived of cheap African labour, Paterson then moved a resolution to import indentured \"coolie labour\" from Asia to work the farms instead, but the government blocked that motion too.\nAltogether, Paterson felt that the distant and overly-tolerant Cape government was \"...the root of all the troubles with the kaffirs...\".\n\nHis proposed solution was a view which he held for the remainder of his life - that the white eastern Cape deserved a greater degree of separation, or to become the seat of the Cape's parliament and government. In this, he differed from the radical members of the \"separatist league\", who were based further east in Grahamstown, were led by Robert Godlonton, and who proposed absolute and immediate separation. He also angered Godlonton's Grahamstown clique by his blocking of their Kowie harbour proposal, which he saw as potentially taking shipping activity away from Port Elizabeth. The separatist movement began a gradual decline due to a growing fear in the Midlands around Port Elizabeth and Graaff-Reinett that if they attained separation then they would fall under the domination of Grahamstown.\n\nHe resigned from politics in 1858 due to his wife's fatal illness.\n\nIn 1859 he made a business trip to Britain where he had a great deal of family and business connections, and he even made a bid for a seat in the British parliament, which he eventually decided against.\n\nIn 1862 he founded Standard Bank, now one of the largest banks in southern Africa. However he later suffered several business failures and declared bankruptcy in 1867.\n\nIn 1872, the Cape attained self-rule (or \"responsible government\" as it was known) and an economic boom ensued as the new locally elected government began vast infrastructure projects across the country. Paterson, financially uplifted by the economic boom, re-entered politics.\n\nPaterson was elected to the Cape Parliament again in 1873. The enormous growth in the economy was fueling a competition between the ports Cape Town and Port Elizabeth, for the expanding inland trade. Paterson therefore returned to his fight for a moderate form of separation - so as to avoid dominance by either Cape Town to the west, or Grahamstown to the east. \nIn other developments, he put forward bills for a local government system, and for a division of public money according to customs and land revenue, but both bills were defeated.\n\nPaterson and his political ally John Gordon Sprigg comprised the core of the opposition to the first Cape government, together with the renegade independent John X. Merriman (who soon joined the government). Paterson's strongest critic was the liberal Saul Solomon, who ridiculed Paterson's ideas.\n\nPaterson's role in the \"Eastern Cape Separatist League\" also brought him into a direct showdown with the strong-willed Prime Minister of the Cape, John Molteno – a firm proponent of regional and racial unity in the Cape – who reacted in May 1874 by passing the Seven Circles Act. This re-drew the borders of the Cape’s subdivisions, abolishing the last legal remnants of the East/West distinction. Together with Molteno's policy of drawing ministers from the Eastern Cape into his government, and the general rising prosperity of the whole country, this effectively crushed the separatist movement. Paterson fought the Bill bitterly, but nonetheless kept his seat in parliament as a member of the opposition once it was passed. He went on to become the primary critic of the Molteno Ministry over the following years, even when the official head of the opposition John X. Merriman joined Molteno's unity government.\n\nNot always popular, Paterson's views, and especially the way in which he delivered them, often provoked considerable hostility in parliament. This all too frequently left him isolated and unable to do more than temporarily obstruct government projects.\n\nStarting in 1874, the British Secretary of State for the Colonies, Lord Carnarvon, having recently federated Canada, began a project to impose the very same system of confederation on the very different states of southern Africa. This was to consolidate European control of southern Africa and bring about a united policy towards the Black African inhabitants. Lord Carnarvon also expressed an interest in making Paterson the next Cape Prime Minister, in order to bring this about.\n\nThere was little local enthusiasm for the project, and its timing was particularly unfortunate – coming when the various southern African states were still simmering after the last bout of British imperial expansion. However Carnarvon was determined, and appointed Henry Bartle Frere – an autocratic imperialist with little experience of southern African politics – as governor, with instructions to implement Carnarvon's confederation. Molteno turned the confederation idea down flat, saying it was impractical and badly timed, but Paterson saw an opportunity to ensure that his eastern province gained autonomy (albeit within the proposed confederation), and that he himself could win the position of leading it. In a series of letters between him and Carnarvon (\"The Confederation Despatch\", 1876), Paterson discreetly offered the British Colonial Office his support against the Molteno government in exchange for vague promises of a future leadership position. Paterson also made a public call for a British invasion and annexation of the Transvaal Republic, for the future confederation. When Molteno, by now furious with Paterson for what he saw as a betrayal of the Cape's independence and democracy, made it clear that he was willing to resign but not to endorse confederation, Frere used the authority of the British Colonial Office to suspend the elected Cape government and assumed direct control in 1878 (appointing Gordon Sprigg as his puppet Prime Minister, instead of Paterson who was at the time considered too divisive a politician for the job). Paterson, disappointed, then travelled to London as a representative of the potential new Eastern Province, while Frere launched his invasion of Zululand in 1879 before being recalled to London to face charges of misconduct.\n\nThe confederation scheme was dropped, having by now spawned a trail of wars across southern Africa – including new frontier wars against the Xhosa and the Pedi people, the Anglo-Zulu war, the Basuto Gun War and later the First Boer War.\n\nPaterson died suspiciously on his way back to the Cape in May 1880 in a bizarre double-shipwreck. He initially twice delayed his departure, missing ships, before he boarded the ship the Union R.M.S. \"American\". The \"American\" was then dramatically wrecked off West Africa, when its propeller-shaft snapped, bent and tore open part of the ship's plating. The passengers evacuated the ship in an ordered way before it sank but, adrift in the Atlantic Ocean, the lifeboats became separated. The passengers were all later found and rescued. However, Paterson's lifeboat was separately picked up by the \"Senegal\" which then ran aground on the coast of Grand Canary Island. In the chaos following this second shipwreck, Paterson was reported to have been struck by a hard object (reportedly the ship's propeller) and killed. He was the only casualty from the two shipwrecks.\n\nUpon news of Paterson's death, flags across the Cape were flown at half mast. His obituary in the \"Cape Argus\", while acknowledging the political controversy and hostility he sometimes caused, paid tribute to his zeal for what he believed to be right, and to his enormous achievements. The village of Paterson in the Eastern Cape, South Africa was named after him.\n\nWriter Stanley Little commented on Paterson's death and political style in his 1887 work on the Cape's political leaders. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1775701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1775701", "title": "José Melis", "text": "José Melis\n\nJosé Melis Guiu, (February 27, 1920, – April 7, 2005), known as José Melis, was a Cuban-American bandleader and television personality.\n\nMelis was born in Havana, Cuba. He studied at the Havana Conservatory of Music and a Cuban government scholarship enabled him to continue his education in Paris. When he was 16, he arrived in the United States, graduated from the Juilliard School of Music and worked as a lounge pianist. During World War II, while he was serving as the musical director for the USO's New York City branch of the USO, he met Jack Paar, and the two remained friends for years.\n\nIn 1954–55, Melis was the pianist when \"The Morning Show\" on CBS was hosted by Paar. Then Paar moved from mornings to late night, and from 1957 to 1962, Melis served as the musical director of \"The Tonight Show\" during Jack Paar's tenure as host. He also wrote the music for Paar's theme song, \"IM4U\" (lyrics by Sev F. Marino), and he performed with Paar on other shows, including Parr’s \"Startime\" (1960). One of his routines on Paar's shows was the \"telephone game,\" in which Melis would improvise a musical number based on the last four digits of an audience member's telephone number.\n\nMelis also appeared on other TV shows, including Ed Sullivan's \"Toast of the Town\", and he portrayed himself in the musical comedy film \"Senior Prom\" (1958). He occasionally accompanied Frank Sinatra, and his song \"Pasion Orientale\" was heard in the Judy Garland version of \"A Star Is Born\" (1954). In addition to touring with Mel Torme, he also appeared as a soloist with the Boston Pops and other symphony orchestras.\n\nMelis was 85 when he died of a respiratory infection in Sun City, Arizona on April 7, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "34853876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34853876", "title": "Late-life mortality deceleration", "text": "Late-life mortality deceleration\n\nIn gerontology, late-life mortality deceleration is the phenomenon of hazard rate increasing at a decreasing rate in late life – rather than increasing exponentially as in the Gompertz law – and in some cases plateauing (asymptoting) at a constant rate. Graphically, on a log-linear semi-log plot (linear in the \"x\"-axis of age, logarithmic in the \"y\"-axis of hazard rate), an exponential function becomes linear, and the Gompertz law amounts to the hazard rate increasing linearly with age. Late-life mortality deceleration corresponds to hazard rate increasing more slowly than linearly (on a log-linear graph), instead curving and possibly plateauing.\n\nLate-life mortality deceleration is a well-established phenomenon in insects, who often spend much of their life in a constant hazard rate region, but it is much more controversial in mammals: rodent studies have found varying conclusions, with some finding short-term periods of mortality deceleration in mice, others not finding such, and baboon studies show no mortality deceleration. An analogous deceleration occurs in failure rate of manufactured products; this analogy is elaborated in the reliability theory of aging and longevity.\n\nLate-life mortality deceleration was first proposed as occurring in human aging, in (which also introduced the Gompertz law), and observed as occurring in humans in , and has since become one of the pillars of the biodemography of human longevity – see history; here \"late life\" is typically \"after 85 years of age\". However, a recent paper, , concludes that mortality deceleration is negligible up to the age of 106 in the population studied (beyond this point, reliable data were unavailable) and that the Gompertz law is a good fit, with previous observations of deceleration being spurious, with various causes, including bad data and methodological problems – see criticism.\n\nThe primary reference for this article is , which provides a detailed historical overview and discussion, together with current criticism.\n\nThree related terms are used in this context:\nThis is used synonymously with \"mortality leveling-off\", or rather to refer to the region where hazard rate is approximately constant.\n\nA brief historical review is given in ; a detailed survey is given in .\n\nLate-life mortality deceleration was first proposed as occurring in human aging, in , which also introduced the Gompertz law. It was observed and quantified in , and reproduced in many later studies. Greenwood and Irwin wrote:\n\nFollowing these studies, late-life mortality deceleration became one of the pillars of the theory of biodemography of human longevity, and models have incorporated it. It has been criticized at times, and recently has been very seriously criticized; see below.\n\nStatistical studies of extreme longevity are difficult for a number of factors. Firstly, because few people live to very old ages, a very large population is required for such studies, ideally all born and living in similar conditions (same country, same birth year). In small countries, a single birth year cohort is insufficiently numerous for statistics, and thus multiple years are often used. Secondly, due to the great ages, accurate records of persons living over 100 years require records dating from the late 19th or early 20th century, when such record-keeping was often not high-quality; further, there is a tendency to exaggerate one's age, which distorts data. Thirdly, granularity is an issue – ideally exact day of birth and death would be used; using only year of birth and death introduces granularity, which adds bias (as discussed below).\n\nGiven that mortality deceleration in humans had been observed in various studies, but disappeared on the careful analysis (of single-year cohorts in the US) in , it is natural to ask what causes this discrepancy – why was mortality deceleration observed?\n\nData quality:\nTechnical:\nMethodology:\n\nSeveral causes are proposed for late-life mortality:\n\nLate-life mortality deceleration can be modeled via modifications of the Gompertz law, using various logistic models.\n\nThe rates of late-life mortality are important for pensions. For example, the mortality rates in late life (after age 85) are of particular interest for the baby boom generation, which will reach this age starting in 2030, and for pensions funding calculations.\n\nLate-life mortality rates are of basic importance for understanding aging, both for organisms generally, and for humans specifically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2349480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2349480", "title": "Laurette Taylor", "text": "Laurette Taylor\n\nLaurette Taylor (April 1, 1883 – December 7, 1946) was an American stage and silent film star.\n\nTaylor was born as Loretta Helen Cooney in New York City on April 1, 1883, of Irish extraction, to James and Elizabeth (née Dorsey) Cooney. She had a younger sister, Elizabeth. She married her first husband, Charles Alonzo Taylor (born January 20, 1864, South Hadley, Massachusetts – died March 21, 1942, Glendale, California), on May 1, 1901, aged 18. He was almost two decades her senior. They had two children, Dwight Oliver Taylor (January 1, 1903 – December 31, 1986) and Marguerite Courtney (August 13, 1904 – February 8, 1995), but divorced circa 1910. \n\nOn December 22, 1912, she married British-born playwright J. Hartley Manners, who wrote the play \"Peg o' My Heart\", a successful play and an enduring personal triumph for Taylor, who toured in it extensively throughout the country. The play's success inspired a 1922 film version starring Taylor and directed by King Vidor. A six-reel print of the film survives in the Motion Picture Division of the Library of Congress. The marriage was successful and Taylor remained married to Manners until his death in 1928. By law, Taylor lost her U.S. citizenship by marrying a foreign national. A widow, Taylor reclaimed by naturalization, on September 11, 1930, her United States citizenship (cert #3234876). Her petition notes her \"not having acquired any other nationality by affirmative act\".\n\nTaylor made her Broadway debut in \"The Great John Ganton\" in 1908 and appeared in other stage productions such as \"The Ringmaster\", \"Alias Jimmy Valentine\", \"Seven Sisters\", \"Lola Lola\", and \"The Bird of Paradise\". Taylor also appeared in other productions, including \"One Night in Rome\", \"The Wooing of Eve\" and the special production, \"Laurette Taylor in Scenes From Shakespeare\". In the latter production, she performed scenes from \"Romeo and Juliet\", \"The Merchant of Venice\", and \"The Taming of the Shrew\".\nAccording to New York Times theatre critic Brooks Atkinson, it was \"The Girl in Waiting\" (1910), which \"made her a star.\" Of her acting, he wrote,By the time she was in her late teens, she had created a highly individual technique of acting that was spontaneous and eloquent; it consisted of variations in tempo, tentative movements that were not quite completed, quizzical glances, absorption in what other actors were saying, and, of course, a warm, expressive voice that always seemed to be addressed directly to the individual theatergoer. 'Luminous' was the word most frequently used about her performances\".\"The effect was so seemingly spontaneous that, early in her career, some doubted she was deliberately acting, as \"she employed none of the ritualistic mannerisms or extravagances of the conventional acting of her day.\"\n\nHer biggest hit was \"Peg o' My Heart.\" A simple Cinderella-formula vehicle written for her by her husband Manners, it ran on Broadway from December 20, 1912 to May 1914, setting a new Broadway dramatic-play run record of 607 performances. The play earned her and her husband about $10,000 a week, made Taylor \"the most generally worshiped [theatrical] star of her time,\" and cemented her reputation as a skilled actress. After it closed on Broadway, Taylor starred in the London production until German Zeppelin bombing closed it down in 1915. \n\nIn 1917 she appeared in \"Out There,\" (another vehicle written for her by Manners) playing \"an obscure Cockney waif\" who, \"by patriotism and idealism\" managed to become a uniformed Red Cross nurse. \"She relieved the suffering of wounded English soldiers by attending to them professionally and by charming them in person.\" A line from the play - \"If I go, will you go?\" - became the headline of a highly effective armed forces recruiting poster. \n\nIn 1918, Taylor starred in yet another successful Manners vehicle, \"Happiness\" (she would later reprise the role in the 1924 movie of the same name)\".\" According to Atkinson, the play version was \"a sentimental comedy about a Brooklyn errand girl who taught a rich customer the secret of happiness.\"\n\nSoon after, Taylor toured the nation with a revival of \"Peg o' My Heart\", which reopened on Broadway at the Cort Theater on February 14, 1921, and ran for another 692 performances.\n\nHowever, by the 1920s, public taste had become more sophisticated. Taylor had always starred in the kind of simple, formulaic plays which had delighted pre-World War I middle-class audiences, and her popularity waned. \"New York Times\" theatre critic John Corbin wrote that she \"had probably the greatest talent, the highest spirit of our times,\" but that her dated material held her back. \n\nAttempting to change course, Manners then wrote a serious play for her, \"The National Anthem\", a play with \"high motives\" which \"rebuked and renounced the jazz generation.\" It opened in 1922 and, unsurprisingly, failed. It was the last time Taylor appeared in a play by her husband.\n\nFew of Taylor's performances survive on celluloid. \n\nIn 1924, Taylor starred in a film version of \"Happiness\", directed by King Vidor, which told of the adventures of a young shopgirl, \"Jenny Wray\", who learns that riches do not necessarily lead to happiness. The cast included Hedda Hopper and Pat O'Malley. The same year, Taylor starred in another screen version of Manners' dramatic play, \"One Night In Rome\", in which she played the dual roles of Duchess Mareno/Madame Enigme. Taylor seems to have enjoyed making \"One Night in Rome\" as she kept a personal print of the movie to always show guests at her home, running it over and over again. Taylor's friend Noël Coward spent a weekend at her home. He was inspired by that visit to write, in just three days, his comedy of manners \"Hay Fever\" (1925). \n\nThe play, a comedic dissection of a family whose theatrical excesses drive their unsuspecting visitors to distraction, was a major hit from the moment of its August 6, 1925 debut. It also caused a serious and permanent rift in the friendship of Taylor and Coward. She suffered from severe alcoholism for many years, a condition which sharply limited her appearances from the late 1920s throughout her career. In 1938, she headed the cast in a revival of \"Outward Bound\" and did not appear again until her re-emergence in Williams' \"The Glass Menagerie\" in 1944; her performance received nearly unanimously rapturous reviews and won her the New York Drama Critics Award for Best Actress of the season.\n\nTaylor planned to make her film debut in \"Peg o' My Heart\", but the film version of the hit play was coveted by nearly every screen actress, including Mary Pickford, who made an offer considerably in excess of the highest amount ever paid for the picture rights to a play or a story. The rights to the film were coveted because of the production's established popularity. Almost any actress in the famous role would be assured of a resounding success, however Taylor doggedly clung to the movie rights for her own use, should she ever commit to appearing in a film. It took years for the play to be filmed and released. King Vidor remembered in his autobiography, \"A Tree Is A Tree\":\"I soon landed a job at the old Metro studio on Romaine Street – the assignment: to direct Laurette Taylor in Peg O' My Heart. Although I had never seen Miss Taylor, her name carried with it a certain magic to my young ears.\"The play was considerably expanded for the film version, and the final production was an immediate success with audiences. Taylor went on to make another adaptation of one of her stage successes, \"Happiness\", and then a third and final film for MGM, \"One Night in Rome\".\n\nShe never appeared in another film, although David O. Selznick did invite her to film a sound test for a role in his 1938 film \"The Young in Heart\", which Taylor did, but she declined the part and actress Minnie Dupree was cast. (The sound film test exists and has been shown on TV from time to time). In preparing interviews for what became \"\", Rick McKay kept asking each person \"Who influenced you the most\" and time and time again, Laurette Taylor's name was mentioned. McKay ended up devoting an entire section to Taylor, and it includes a section on her 1938 screen test.\n\nTaylor wrote an essay on acting, titled \"The Quality Most Needed\", which was included in some of the early editions of the text \"Actors on Acting\". In it, Taylor muses on the importance of imagination over physical beauty for the actress wishing to truly create art. She sharply criticizes performances where you can \"see the acting\", and warns against paying too much attention to the traditions of acting, saying it \"cramps creative instinct\". To Taylor, the imaginative actress will leave you with a feeling that you can imagine her character's conduct \"[i]n any position, aside from the situations involved in the actions of the play\". Taylor applauded the imaginative actress who \"builds a picture, using all her heart and soul and brain\", not for the audience but for herself.\n\nTaylor died from a coronary thrombosis on December 7, 1946, at age 63. Her ashes were interred in Woodlawn Cemetery in The Bronx, New York City. Her great-granddaughter, Chloe Taylor, is an actress in Los Angeles, California.\n\nWriting after Taylor's death, Tennessee Williams paid tribute to \"the great warmth of her heart\", saying, \"There was a radiance about her art which I can compare only to the greatest lines of poetry, and which gave me the same shock of revelation as if the air about us had been momentarily broken through by light from some clear space beyond us.\"\n\nIn 1960, the play \"Laurette\", starring Judy Holliday and directed by José Quintero, closed out of town in Philadelphia due to Holliday's battle with breast cancer. For years, film director George Cukor tried unsuccessfully to launch a film version of Taylor's life. In 1963, a musical adaptation of \"Laurette\" opened on Broadway. The musical, titled \"Jennie\", starred Mary Martin in the title role. Its book, by Arnold Schulman, is credited as having been suggested by Marguerite Courtney's \"Laurette\", and its score was by Howard Dietz and Arthur Schwartz. It ran for only 82 performances, receiving mediocre reviews. A one-act play, \"Opening Night\", appeared briefly off-Broadway in October 1963. Peggy Wood portrayed Fanny Ellis, a once-famous star who is preparing for a performance in her dressing room. Many thought Fanny was actually Taylor. Wood appeared with Ruth Gates. The play ran for only 47 performances. \n\nIn the 2004 documentary \"\", numerous Broadway veterans cited Taylor's performance in \"Glass Menagerie\" and \"Outward Bound\" as the most memorable stage performances they had ever seen. A rare sound film clip of Taylor in a screen test made for David O. Selznick's studio is included in the documentary. The test, for a role in the film \"The Young in Heart\", reportedly did not meet the approval of studio executives. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7218858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7218858", "title": "List of human spaceflights, 1971–1980", "text": "List of human spaceflights, 1971–1980\n\nThis is a detailed listing of human spaceflights from 1971 to 1980, including the later Apollo Moon landings, the US Skylab missions, and the start of the Soviet Union's Salyut series of space stations.\n"}
{"id": "43467236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43467236", "title": "Margie Pitts Hames", "text": "Margie Pitts Hames\n\nMargie Pitts Hames (December 8, 1933 – July 19, 1994) was an Atlanta civil rights lawyer who argued the abortion rights case Doe v. Bolton before the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nHames was born in Milton, Tennessee to a poor rural family. As a schoolgirl, Hames encountered a schoolteacher who stated that the only acceptable time for an abortion was \"when a black man raped a white woman.\" In 1951, Hames graduated from Kittrell High School in Murfreesboro, Tennessee.\n\nWhile working as a legal secretary, Hames began studying law at Middle Tennessee State University. She later transferred to Vanderbilt University, where she earned bachelor's and law degrees in 1961.\n\nIn 1962, Hames entered law practice in Atlanta with the law firm of Fisher & Phillips, specializing in labor-management relations. In 1969, after the birth of her two children, Hames started volunteer work for the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. The Ford Foundation had funded this project with the goal of preventing confrontations between civil rights demonstrators and law enforcement.\n\nIn 1970. the American Civil Liberties Union and the Georgia Legal Aid Society hired Hames to contest a 1968 abortion law in Georgia. The plaintiff \"Doe\" was Sandra Bensing Cano, a woman with an unwanted pregnancy who had been unable to get a legal abortion. The defendant was the Georgia attorney general, Arthur Bolton. Hames was the main lawyer in \"Doe vs Bolton\" when it came before the US Supreme Court along with \"Roe vs. Wade\". On January 22, 1973, the court overturned the Georgia law.\n\nIn 1971, Hames opened her own law firm. She would eventually served as legal counsel for the Atlanta Surgi Center, the Hillcrest Clinic, the Summit Medical Center, Midtown Hospital, and the Atlanta Center for Reproductive Health. She also handled civil rights claims regarding police brutality, employment discrimination, welfare rights and education cases. In 1982, she ran unsuccessfully for the Georgia Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1994, Hames died at age 60 at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta after suffering a heart attack while driving. She is buried in Milton Cemetery in Milton, Tennessee.\n\nIn 2006, as part of a court challenge, Cano (died September 30, 2014) claimed that Hames lied to her and pressured her into participating in Doe vs Bolton. Before her death, Hames had rejected this coercion claim. The US Supreme Court rejected Cano's challenge.\n"}
{"id": "2432466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2432466", "title": "Musa al-Sadr", "text": "Musa al-Sadr\n\nMusa al-Sadr (; ; 4 June 1928 – disappeared in Libya on 31 August 1978) is a Lebanese-Iranian philosopher and Shi'a religious leader from a long line of distinguished clerics tracing their ancestry back to Jabal Amel.\n\nBorn in the Chaharmardan neighbourhood of Qom, Iran, he underwent both seminary and secular studies in Iran. He belongs to the Sadr family from Jabal Amel in Lebanon, a branch of Musawi family tracing to Musa Ibn Jaafar, the seventh Shia Imam and ultimately to the Prophet Muhammad through his daughter Fatima. Therefore, Musa al-Sadr is often styled with the honorific title \"Sayyid\". He left Qom for Najaf to study theology and returned to Iran after the 1958 Iraqi coup d'état.\n\nSome years later, Sadr went to Tyre, Lebanon as the emissary of Ayatollahs Borujerdi and Hakim. Fouad Ajami called him a \"towering figure in modern Shi'i political thought and praxis\". He gave the Shia population of Lebanon \"a sense of community\". In Lebanon, he founded and revived many organizations including schools, charities, and the Amal Movement.\n\nOn 25 August 1978, Sadr and two companions departed for Libya to meet with government officials at the invitation of Muammar Gaddafi. The three were last seen on 31 August. They were never heard from again. Many theories exist around the circumstances of Sadr's disappearance, none of which have been proven. His whereabouts remain unknown to this day.\n\nMusa al-Sadr came from a long line of clerics tracing their ancestry back to Jabal Amel.\n\nHis great-great-grandfather S. Salih b. Muhammad Sharafeddin, a high-ranking cleric, was born in Shhour, a village near Tyre, Lebanon. Following a frantic turn of events related to an anti-Ottoman uprising, he left for Najaf. Sharafeddin's son, Sadreddin, left Najaf for Isfahan, which was then the most important centre of religious learning in Iran. He returned to Najaf shortly before his death in 1847. The youngest of his five sons, Ismail (\"as-Sadr\"), was born in Isfahan, in Qajar-ruled Iran, and eventually became a leading mujtahid.\n\nThe second son of Ismail, also named Sadreddin, was born in Ottoman Iraq and also decided to settle permanently in Iran. He became Musa al-Sadr's father. While living in Iran, Sadreddin married a daughter of Ayatollah Hussein Tabatabaei Qomi, an Iranian religious leader. She would become Musa al-Sadr's mother.\n\nMusa al-Sadr was born in the Cheharmardan neighborhood of Qom, Iran, on 4 June 1928.\n\nHe attended Hayat Elementary School in Qom where he attended seminary classes informally; he started his official seminary education in 1941. His teachers considered him a \"quick learner and remarkably knowledgeable for his young age\". After a while he started teaching other students \"lower-level\" courses. This coincided with the \"liberalizing of Iranian politics\", the political climate of his time was secular, so that most religious scholars \"felt politically and socially marginalized\".\n\nTo have some influence in the \"national life\" he concluded that he had to become familiar with \"modern science and contemporary world\". As a result, he started a \"full secular education\" alongside his seminary studies. He moved to Tehran, where he completed a degree in Islamic jurisprudence (\"Fiqh\") and political sciences from Tehran University and learned some English and French. He then returned to Qom to study theology and Islamic philosophy under Allamah Muhammad Husayn Tabatabai.\n\nFollowing the death of his father in 1953, he left Qom for Najaf to study theology under Ayatollah Muhsin al-Hakim and Abul Qasim Khui. There he had teachers such as: Ayatollah Hakim, Shaykh Morteza al Yasin, Ayatollah Abulqasim Khu'i, Shaykh Hossein Hilli, Shaykh Sadra Badkubahi, and others, some of whom became \"Marja\" after Ayatollah Borujerdi's death. Musa al-Sadr became a \"mujtahid\" in Najaf. In 1955 he traveled to Lebanon where he met Abd al-Hossein Sharafeddin. He had met him previously in 1936 when his family had hosted Abd al-Husayn in Iran. The same year he left Iran and returned to Najaf and, in the autumn of 1956, he married the daughter of Ayatollah Azizollah Khalili.\n\nAfter the 1958 Iraqi coup d'état and the overthrow of the monarchy in Iraq, Sadr returned to Iran. There, he accepted the request of Ali Davani, who was sent by Ayatollah Shariatmadari, and became an editor of \"Darsha'i az maktab-e Eslam\", also known as \"Maktab-e Eslam\", a journal published by the Hawza of Qom and endorsed by Ayatollah Broujerdi. He began contributing with the third issue, focusing on Islamic economics, \"a novel subject at the time\". His articles in this field were then published as a book. He soon became the journal's \"de facto editor-in-chief\". He left the journal in December 1959 along with some of its original founders.\n\nMusa Sadr also took part in devising a new scheme for \"Hawza\" called \"Tarh-e Moqddamati-ye eslah-e howzeh\", which was then withdrawn, in cooperation with Mohammad Beheshti. In 1959, Sadr founded a private high school which provided an alternative to the state educational system for \"observant parents\".\n\nMusa al-Sadr declined Ayatollah Broujerdi's request to go to Italy as his representative and instead left Qom for Najaf. There Ayatollah Muhsin al-Hakim urged him to accept an invitation to become the leading Shi'a figure in Tyre, succeeding Abdul Hussein Sharif Al Din, who had died in 1957. He left Najaf for Tyre in late 1959, as the \"emissary\" of Ayatollah Broujerdi and Ayatollah Hakim. At the request of some clerics, he later made several trips to Iran delivering several lectures such as \"Islam is a Religion of Life\" and \"The World is Ready to Accept the Call of Islam.\" The latter included presenting his experiences in Lebanon and emphasizing the need to work \"towards the betterment of Muslims.\"\n\nIn 1967, Imam al-Sadr traveled to West Africa to get acquainted with the Lebanese community and inspect its affairs and worked to link them to their homeland. He also met with Ivorian President Félix Houphouët-Boigny and Senegalese President Léopold Sédar Senghor and provided symbolic assistance to orphans in Senegal. Senghor praised the Imam's gesture, pointing out that he is following his activities with great interest, which had a great influence in spreading the feeling of love and faith among the citizens.\n\nSadr, who became known as \"Imam Musa\", quickly became one of the most prominent advocates for the Shia population of Lebanon, a group that was both economically and politically disadvantaged.\n\n\"[Sadr] worked tirelessly to improve the lot of his community – to give them a voice, to protect them from the ravages of war and inter communal strife,\" said Vali Nasr. Sadr impressed the Lebanese people \"by providing practical assistance,\" regardless of their sect. He was seen as a moderate, demanding that the Maronite Christians relinquish some of their power, but pursuing ecumenism and peaceful relations between the groups.\n\nIn 1969, Imam Musa was appointed the first head of the Supreme Islamic Shia Council (SISC) in Lebanon, () an entity meant to give the Shia more say in government.\n\nFor the next four years, Sadr engaged the leadership of Syrian ‘Alawīs in an attempt to unify their political power with that of the Twelver Shia. Although controversial, recognition of the ‘Alawī as Shi'a coreligionists came in July 1973 when he and the ‘Alawī religious leadership successfully appointed an ‘Alawī as an official mufti to the Twelver community.\nHe revived the \"Jami'at al-Birr wal-Ihsan\" charity, founded by S. Salih b. Muhammad Sharafeddin and gathered money for The Social Institute (al-Mu'assasa al-Ijtima'iyya), an orphanage in Tyre. In 1963, Sadr established a sewing school and nursery named The Girls' Home (Bayt al-Fatat). The same year, he established The Institute of Islamic Studies (Ma'had al-Dirasat al-Islamiyya). In 1964, Sadr started Burj al-Shimali Technical Institute, whose funding was provided by Shi'a benefactors, bank loans, and the Lebanese Ministry of Education. In 1974, he founded, with Hussein el-Husseini, the Movement of the Disinherited () to press for better economic and social conditions for the Shia. They established a number of schools and medical clinics throughout southern Lebanon, many of which are still in operation today. Sadr attempted to prevent the descent into violence that eventually led to the Lebanese Civil War by beginning a fast in a mosque in Beirut. There he was visited by Lebanese from all factions – both Muslim and Christian. Yasser Arafat and Syrian Foreign Minister Abd al-Halim Khaddam, also visited him. Formation of a national unity cabinet resulted from the meeting and Sadr's attempt to establish peace was a temporary success.\n\nDuring the war, he aligned himself with the Lebanese National Movement and Movement of the Disinherited and in cooperation with Mostafa Chamran developed an armed wing known as \"Afwāj al-Muqāwamat al-Lubnāniyyah\" (), better known as Amal ( meaning \"hope\"), which assembled youth and educated generation of Husaynis and Mousawis families. Shia were the only major community without a militia group in the land of militias; Amal was created by Sadr to protect Shia rights and interests.\n\nHowever, in 1976, he withdrew his support after the Syrian invasion against the Lebanese Front. He also actively cooperated with Mostafa Chamran, Sadegh Ghotbzadeh, and other Iranian Islamist activists during the civil war. Sadr and Chamran had an important role in the Islamic Revolution of Iran. They were involved in protests against the Shah out of Iran. According to Amal diputy, Ali Kharis, \"Musa Sadr and Chamran were the backbone of the Iranian revolution and how one can not speak of the Iranian revolution without mentioning these two people.\"\n\nIn addition, Sadr was instrumental in developing ties between Hafez Assad, then Syrian president, and the opponents of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, Shah of Iran.\n\nMusa al-Sadr maintained strong family relations with political leaders in Iran, Lebanon and Iraq. Musa al-Sadr is related to noted Iranian individuals namely Sadeq Tabatabaei (his nephew), as well as Mohammad Khatami (his wife was a niece of Musa al-Sadr), and Ayatollah Khomeini's son Ahmad Khomeini (his wife was another of Musa al-Sadr's nieces). Sadr's son was married to Khomeini's granddaughter. His sister, Rabab al-Sadr, is a social activist who does charity work, and also a painter trained in Italy who earned a doctorate in philosophy, her paradigm being influenced by Søren Kierkegaard.'\n\nMusa al-Sadr has been referred to by Fouad Ajami as a \"towering figure in modern Shi'i political thought and praxis.\" According to him, even American diplomats effusively described Musa Sadr after meeting him. He supports his claim by referring to a cable sent home by George M. Godley, a U.S. ambassador to Lebanon: \"He is without debate one of the most, if not the most, impressive individual I have met in Lebanon. . . . His charisma is obvious and his apparent sincerity is awe-inspiring\". In Lebanon, he had garnered significant popularity \"due to his good rapport with young people.\"\n\nStanding at , scholar Fouad Ajami describes Sadr's charisma and magnetism as such: Lebanon has long been a country finicky about the looks, the aura, al haiba of a leader. The Shia in particular have been noted to be a people of some vanity. In the Shia tradition, the Imams were not only morally infallible men (an Imam was said to be masum, not subject to error), but also physically perfect beings. A blind man or a lame man would not have been accepted as an Imam. Musa al Sadr, a handsome man of striking looks, was true to his people's fantasy of what a man of piety and distinction and high birth slated for bigger things should look like. He was, in addition, a dazzling speaker in a culture that exalted the spoken word and those who could express in classical Arabic what was on the minds of others.\n\nand\n\nSayyid Musa winked at traditions with a daring uncommon to men of his clerical calling and background. He was a hit with women, who admired his looks and his elegance and were pleased that they did not have to scurry out of living rooms and meetings when he arrived, as they did with ulama of more conservative outlook. As befitting a man of the religious mantle, he refrained from shaking hands with women, and his aides and companions forewarned Christian women who were to meet him that they should not try to shake hands. But even this prohibition was violated now and them. A woman who admitted being drawn to him, being nearly hypnotized by him, once held out a hand to him, and he took it between his two hands, saying that he was not supposed to do so, and that he was doing what he shouldn't be doing, that he would not do it again.\n\nOn 25 August 1978, al-Sadr and two companions, Sheikh Muhammad Yaacoub and journalist Abbas Badreddine, departed for Libya to meet with government officials at the invitation of Muammar Gaddafi. The three were last seen on 31 August. They were never heard from again.\n\nIt is widely believed, at least by Lebanese Shia Muslims, that Gaddafi ordered al-Sadr's killing, but differing motivations exist. Libya has consistently denied responsibility, claiming that Sadr and his companions left Libya for Italy. However, supporters of the missing cleric pointed out that al-Sadr's baggage was found in a Tripoli hotel and there was no evidence of his arrival in Rome. Airlines could not confirm that al-Sadr had ever flown to Italy from Libya.\n\nal-Sadr's son claimed that he remains secretly in jail in Libya but did not provide proof. Sadr's disappearance continues to be a major dispute between Lebanon and Libya. Lebanese Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri claimed that the Libyan regime, and particularly the Libyan leader, was responsible for the disappearance of Imam Musa al-Sadr, as London-based \"Asharq Al-Awsat\", a Saudi-run pan-Arab daily, reported on 27 August 2006.\n\nAccording to Iranian General Mansour Qadar, the head of Syrian security, Rifaat al-Assad, told the Iranian ambassador to Syria that Gaddafi planned to kill al-Sadr. On 27 August 2008, Gaddafi was indicted by the government of Lebanon for al-Sadr's disappearance. Following the fall of the Gaddafi regime, Lebanon and Iran appealed to the Libyan rebels to investigate the fate of Musa al-Sadr.\n\nPolitical analyst Roula Talj has said that Gaddafi's son, Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, told her that al-Sadr and his aides, Mohammed Yaqoub and Abbas Badreddin, never left Libya. According to a representative of Libya's National Transitional Council in Cairo, Gaddafi murdered al-Sadr after discussions about Shia beliefs. Sadr accused him of being unaware of Islamic teachings and of the Islamic branches of Shia and Sunni, and Gaddafi became enraged and ordered the murder of Sadr and his delegation. According to other sources, Gaddafi had al-Sadr and his companions murdered at the request of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. At the time, the Shias and the Palestinians were involved in armed clashes in Southern Lebanon. According to a former member of the Libyan intelligence, al-Sadr was beaten to death for daring to challenge Gaddafi at his house on matters of theology. In an interview with Al Aan TV, Ahmed Ramadan, an influential figure in the Gaddafi regime and an eyewitness to the meeting between al-Sadr and Gaddafi, claimed that the meeting lasted for two and one-half hours and ended with Gaddafi saying \"take him\". Ramadan also named three officials who he believes were responsible for the death of al-Sadr.\n\nImam Musa al-Sadr is still regarded as an important political and spiritual leader by the Shia Lebanese community. His status only grew after his disappearance in August 1978, and today his legacy is revered by both Amal and Hezbollah followers. In the eyes of many, he became a martyr and a \"vanished imam.\" A tribute to his continuing popularity is that it is popular in parts of Lebanon to mimic his Persian accent. The Amal Party remains an important Shia organization in Lebanon and looks to al-Ṣadr as its founder.\n\nAccording to Professor Seyyed Hossein Nasr, \n\nal-Sadr wrote a long introduction to Henry Corbin's \"History of Islamic Philosophy\".\n\nal-Sadr's paper \"Islam, Humanity and Human Values\" was published by Ahlul Bayt World Assembly.\n\n\"Unity of the Islamic Schools of Thought According to Imam Musa Sadr\" includes a biography and an English adaptation of one of his books, \"Imam Musa Sadr: surush-e wahdat, Majma’ Jahani-ye Taqrib-e Madhahib-e Islami, 2004.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45282363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45282363", "title": "MyndPlay", "text": "MyndPlay\n\nMyndPlay is a UK electronics and media company known for being the creator of the world's first mind-controlled video and movie platform, running research, neuromarketing, emotional training programs and creating interactive user experiences. The company develops brain-computer interfaces based on electroencephalography.\n"}
{"id": "3378088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3378088", "title": "Narbona", "text": "Narbona\n\nNarbona (1766 – August 30, 1849) was a Navajo chief who participated in the Navajo Wars. He was killed in a confrontation with U.S. soldiers on August 30, 1849.\n\nNarbona was one of the wealthiest Navajo of his time due to the number of sheep and horses owned by his extended family group. He was not a \"chief\" of all of the Navajo as the independent minded Navajo had no central authority. However, he was very influential in the tribe due to the status gained from his wealth, personal reputation, and age during the time he negotiated with the white men.\n\nNarbona became one of the most prominent tribal leaders after the massacre of 24 Navajo leaders in June, 1822 at Jemez Pueblo. They had been travelling under flag of truce to a peace conference with the New Mexican government. In February 1835 he led the Navajo to a decisive victory in an ambush of a Mexican expedition in the Chuska Mountains led by Captain Blas de Hinojos. The site of the battle, Copper Pass (), is now known as Narbona Pass.\n\nIn 1849, Narbona, with several hundred of his warriors, rode to meet a delegation led by Col. John M. Washington to discuss peace terms between the Navajo and the \"New Men\", Americans who had driven the Mexicans from what is now the Southwestern United States. The U.S. party was composed of both U.S. Regulars and local New Mexican auxiliaries.\n\nAfter several misunderstandings, translators managed to work out an acceptable list of terms for peace between the two parties. As the peace council broke up, Sadoval, a young Navajo warrior of some distinction, began riding his horse to and fro, exhorting the 200–300 Navajo warriors in attendance to break the new treaty immediately. At this point, a New Mexican officer claimed that he noticed a horse that belonged to him being ridden by one of the Navajo warriors. Washington, put in the position of backing one of his troopers, demanded that the horse be immediately turned over. The Navajo refused, and the horse and its rider departed.\n\nWashington commanded his troops to unlimber their cannon and prepare to fire if the Navajo refused to return the, now absent, property the Americans said was stolen. The Navajo again denied his request, and the Americans opened fire with cannon as well as rifles.\n\nNarbona was mortally wounded in the fusillade, and according to eyewitnesses, he was scalped by one of the New Mexico militiamen. He was buried by his sons in the traditional Navajo fashion, bound in a \"death knotted\" blanket and cast into a crevice. Two of his finest horses were slaughtered to ensure he would not walk to the afterlife.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12459860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12459860", "title": "Oscar (therapy cat)", "text": "Oscar (therapy cat)\n\nOscar is a therapy cat living in the Steere House Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Providence, Rhode Island, U.S. since 2005. He came to public attention in 2007 when he was featured in an article by geriatrician David Dosa in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\". According to Dosa, Oscar appears able to predict the impending death of terminally ill patients by choosing to nap next to people a few hours before they die. Hypotheses for this ability include that Oscar is picking up on the lack of movement in such patients or that he can smell biochemicals released by dying cells.\n\nOscar was also the subject of Dosa's 2010 book, \"Making Rounds With Oscar: The Extraordinary Gift of an Ordinary Cat\".\n\nOscar is a therapy cat that was one of six cats adopted in 2005 by the Steere House Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Providence, Rhode Island, U.S. Steere House, which bills itself as a \"pet friendly\" facility that allows a variety of pets to visit and reside there, is a 41-bed unit that treats people with end-stage Alzheimer's, Parkinson's disease and other illnesses, most of whom are generally unaware of their surroundings. Oscar has been described as generally aloof and \"not a cat that's friendly to people\", sometimes hissing at people when he wanted to be left alone.\n\nAfter Oscar had been at Steere House for around six months, staff noticed that Oscar often chose to nap next to residents who died within several hours of his arrival. It seemed to staff as if Oscar were trying to comfort and provide company to people as they died.\n\nJoan Teno, a physician at Steere House, clarified that \"it's not that the cat is consistently there first. But the cat always does manage to make an appearance, and it always seems to be in the last two hours.\"\n\nAfter Oscar accurately predicted 25 deaths, staff started calling family members of residents as soon as they discovered him sleeping next to someone in order to notify them and give them an opportunity to say goodbye before the impending death. , Oscar had accurately predicted approximately 50 patients' deaths.\n\nOscar made international headlines in 2007 after the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" published an article about him by Steere House geriatrician David Dosa.\n\nTeno and Dosa hypothesized that Oscar is responding to the smell of chemicals released when someone dies or some other odor emitted during death.\n\n\"CBS News\" consulted several animal specialists who had various hypotheses, such as that Oscar may be smelling some chemical that's released just before death and his attendance in rooms with that odor may be a learned behavior or that he's picking up on the stillness and lack of movement in the room rather than a smell.\n\nSome have argued that Oscar does not have an ability to predict death, and that this is a case of confirmation bias.\n\n, it is believed that Oscar has accurately predicted 100 deaths.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50654602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50654602", "title": "Paula J. Olsiewski", "text": "Paula J. Olsiewski\n\nPaula J. Olsiewski is an American biochemist. She is a Program Director at the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, where she created and directs the Foundation’s programs in the Microbiology of the Built Environment, the Chemistry of Indoor Environments and Civic Initiatives. She directed the Biosecurity program until its conclusion in 2011 and the Synthetic Biology program until its conclusion in 2014.\n\nOlsiewski holds a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Yale College, and a Doctor of Philosophy in biological chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1979) with a thesis on D-amino acid dehydrogenase evolution, supervised by Christopher T. Walsh. From 1980-1982 she was a Postdoctoral Fellow in the lab of William H. Beers at New York University.\n\nOlsiewski directed commercial development for in vitro diagnostic products at Enzo Biochem, (NYSE:ENZ), a biotechnology company focused on the manipulation and modification of nucleic acids to produce therapeutic and diagnostic products. She directed the New York City Biotechnology Initiative, a state funded program to improve the region's ability to grow biotechnology companies by fostering relationships between industry and academia. She also established and directed the Technology Development Office at the Hospital for Special Surgery.\n\nOlsiewski is a consultant to the National Counterproliferation Center, Chair of the Board of Scientific Counselors Homeland Security Research Subcommittee at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and on the Board of Directors at the Critical Path Institute. In 2001 she served on the Board of Advisors for the WMD Center’s Bio-Response Report Card. From 2003-2009 she was a member of the MIT Corporation. She was the first alumna to serve as President of the MIT Alumni Association (2003-2004), and served on the Advisory Board of the MIT Initiative on Faculty Race and Diversity (2008-2009). She was a member of the Committee on Advances in Technology and the Prevention of Their Application to Next Generation Biowarfare Threats, which produced the National Research Counsel Report “Globalization, Biosecurity, and the Future of Life Sciences” (2006). From 2005-2012 she served on the advisory board for the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism (START).\n\nHer most cited papers, according to Google Scholar: \n\nIn 1995 Olsiewski won the MIT Henry B. Kane '24 Award, which is given in recognition of exception service and accomplishments in the area of fundraising. In 2000, she received the MIT Bronze Beaver Alumni Award, which is given in recognition of distinguished service - it is the highest honor the Alumni Association bestows upon any of its members. Also in 2000, she received the Yale Class Distinguished Service Award, which is selected by the class leadership and bestwowed to recognize and thank classmates who have dedicated time, energy and enthusiasm to the Class. In 2018 Olsiewski was elected as a AAAS Fellow in the Chemical Sciences division.\n"}
{"id": "23821607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23821607", "title": "Radium (horse)", "text": "Radium (horse)\n\nRadium was an outstanding Australian bred campdrafter and very influential ancestor of Australian Stock Horses. He was a bay stallion bred by Donald Beaton of Levedale, Gloucester, New South Wales. This son of the outstanding campdrafter, Cecil (1899, by Red Gauntlet from Meretha II) from Black Bess by Hukatere (1882) was foaled on 11 November 1918. Beaton took great care in the breeding of his horses requiring horses with ability and stamina, for which he culled heavily. Radium’s sire, Cecil was so successful that in 1913, his owner, Arch Simpson was asked to leave his champion campdrafter at home in order that other competitors had a chance to win the campdrafting event at Geary’s Flat Bushman’s Carnival. \n\nRadium was broken in by Archie Grant and Billy Tout when he was a two-year-old, after which he had several trips to the Cooplacurripa area. He began to show his exceptional ability as a stock horse as he developed and matured. Donald Beaton often drove long distances to compete at bushman’s carnivals with Radium tied behind the buggy. Radium would then compete in the campdraft, often winning and if he was going well, round off his success with an exhibition of campdrafting without a bridle. \n\nIn circa 1928, Radium was sold to Herb O’Neil, who, as a friend of Donald Beaton, had ridden the horse in competitions for Beaton when he had been unable to get away from his property. Herb O’Neill competed extensively with Radium, winning over a large area of the state. Just prior to the Second World War (WWII), Radium won a Championship Campdraft at Kempsey, New South Wales with the next ten placings going to Radium’s sons and daughters. Radium was also highly successful in led contests for the best type of Stock Horse. During WWII, at a Dungog Bushman’s Carnival over 20 horses were competing in the led stock horse class. In this event Radium received the first placing with the remaining four all being his sons. \n\nRadium stood at stud on \"Kunderang Station\" (now part of Oxley Wild Rivers National Park) for much of his life and had at least thirteen of his sons appear in Australian Stock Horse pedigrees. Quite a few horses had a double cross or were line-bred to this great foundation sire.\nHis son, Chan was one of the smartest horses seen in a cattle camp and was a good sire. Another son, Dimray foaled in 1938 was a brilliant campdrafter and when retired to stud, he carried on the Radium tradition of producing top stock horses and campdrafters. It was as a sire that Dimray had a tremendous influence with his son Reality, his grandson Rivoli Ray and his great grandson, Cecil Bruce being Hall of Fame inductees. \n\nRadium died on 12 November 1947, at 29 years of age, of a genital malignancy. This was the end of the life of a truly great horse, but he was also the foundation of a great line of horses. \n\n"}
{"id": "28081381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28081381", "title": "Rahel Hirsch", "text": "Rahel Hirsch\n\nRahel Hirsch (September 15, 1870 – October 6, 1953) was a German doctor and professor at the Charité medical school in Berlin. In 1913 she became the first woman in the Kingdom of Prussia to be appointed a professor in medicine.\n\nRahel Hirsch was born on 15 September 1870 in Frankfurt am Main, one of eleven children of (1833–1900). Mendel Hirsch was the director of the girls' school of the Jewish religious community in Frankfurt am Main. Mendel's father, Rahel's paternal grandfather, was the eminent rabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch.\n\nFrom 1885 to 1889, Rahel Hirsch studied for her degree in education in Wiesbaden; she then worked until 1898 as a teacher. After her doctorate she became assistant to Friedrich Kraus at the Charité.\n\nSince she was Jewish, the takeover by the Nazis meant she could no longer practice medicine. In October 1938 she moved to London, where one of her sisters lived. Since her degree was not recognized by the British, she worked as a laboratory assistant and later as a translator.\n\nShe spent her last years plagued by depression, delusions and persecutory fears. She died in a mental hospital on the outskirts of London on 6 October 1953 aged 83.\n\nShe is remembered by a sculpture in a square at the Charité, and by the naming after her of a stretch of road in front of the new Berlin Hauptbahnhof.\n\n"}
{"id": "2857349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2857349", "title": "Richard Colvin Cox", "text": "Richard Colvin Cox\n\nRichard Colvin Cox (25 July 1928 – last seen 14 January 1950) was a second-year cadet who disappeared from the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York.\n\nIn January 1950, he was visited by a young man whose first name may have been George, three times over the course of a week. On the third occasion, Richard Cox and \"George\" left the grounds of the academy and were never seen again. According to an eyewitness account from another cadet, the two men seemed to have known each other somewhere other than West Point. Cox is the only West Point cadet to have disappeared without a trace.\n\nRichard Cox was born in Mansfield, Ohio. After graduating from a public high school there in 1946, he volunteered for service in the United States Army. He joined the United States Constabulary, a United States Army Gendarmerie force raised to be a police-type occupation and security force in Allied-occupied Germany.\n\nIn May 1947, he began his assignment to the Sixth Constabulary Regiment, based at Coburg in the American occupation zone in Germany. and was in the S-2 (intelligence) section of Headquarters Company. Later in 1947, Cox applied for and received his appointment to West Point, arriving at the United States Military Academy Preparatory School (then located at Stewart Field near the academy proper) in January 1948.\n\nCox entered West Point in May 1948 and did well there. Academically, he was ranked at about 100 out of a class of 550. He joined West Point's athletic team and competed in a national NCAA competition only a month before his disappearance. Cox was engaged to be married; he and his fiancé, Betty Timmons, planned to marry after his graduation from West Point.\n\nAt 4:45 pm on Saturday, January 7, 1950, a man telephoned Cox's West Point classmate, Peter Hains. Hains was acting as Charge of Quarters in Cadet Company B-2 (part of the North Barracks) and answered incoming calls for company members. He later said the caller's \"tone was rough and patronizing, almost insulting.\" After Hains told the man that Cox was not in his room, the man replied, \"Well, look, when he comes in, tell him to come on down here to the hotel. ... Just tell him George called – he'll know who I am. We knew each other in Germany. I'm just up here for a little while, and tell him I'd like to get him a bite to eat.\" Hains later stated he could not be completely certain the name given was \"George\", as he had answered many phone calls while on duty and that one had not seemed noteworthy at the time; Cox never referred to the man by name.\n\nAt 5:30 pm, a man entered Grant Hall - an area where cadets could meet guests - and asked to see Cox. The cadet on duty telephoned Cox, to tell him he had a visitor. The cadet later described the visitor as slightly under tall and weighing around . He was fair-haired, had a fair complexion and wore a belted trench-coat, but no hat. When Cox entered the Hall, he shook hands with the man; the cadet on duty later recalled he seemed glad to see him. Cox signed out in the Company B-2 Departure Book, indicating he would have dinner off-campus. However, Cox later admitted to his roommates they did not dine, but drank from a bottle of whiskey while sitting inside the man's parked car.\n\nCox returned to Cadet Company B-2, signed the Departure Book, took a shower, and slept off the effects of the alcohol. (His two roommates later revealed this.) As a prank, his roommates photographed him, slumped over his desk, asleep. At an indeterminate time that evening, Cox altered the military time he had written in the Departure Book, changing \"1923\" to \"1823\" to make it look as if he had attended the 6:30 p.m. cadet supper formation. In fact, he had skipped the formation. This detail was not discovered until two years later, when an agent of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command had the Departure Book examined in a laboratory. If the alteration had been discovered when it was fresh in January 1950, Cox could have been charged with violating the Cadet Honor Code and likely expelled.\n\nThe next morning, before attending the Sunday chapel service, Cox mentioned his visitor to his roommates. The man, Cox said, was a former US Army Ranger who had served in the same unit as him in Germany. Cox said the man liked to brag about killing Germans during the war and had boasted about cutting off their private parts afterward. Another story he told Cox was about having gotten a German girl pregnant, and then murdering her to prevent her from having the baby. That afternoon, Cox signed out a second time to meet the man, returning at about 4.30 pm. The following six days were without incident. Cox mentioned his visitor once to his roommates. He remarked that he \"hoped he wouldn't have to see the fellow again,\" giving them the impression he viewed the man with distaste.\n\nOn Saturday, January 14, Cox watched a basketball game between the Army and Rutgers University. Afterwards, he was seen talking to a man thought to be \"George,\" although the cadet who saw the two talking gave a description that differed greatly from the description given by the cadet who had seen the stranger in Grant Hall on January 7. According to the eyewitness description from January 14, George was \"dark haired and rough looking.\" Cox returned to his room and mentioned to a roommate he was signing out to dine with his visitor again, although he appeared \"not apprehensive, just sort of disgusted.\" The two men left the grounds of the academy and vanished without a trace.\n\nCox was supposed to return by 11 p.m. When he did not return, no alarm was raised because cadets occasionally returned late. His continued absence was reported to a superior officer at 2:30 a.m., but again no action was taken as cadets had been known to stay out all night despite the punishment this would incur. On Sunday morning, his roommates reported all they knew of the matter to their superior; the New York State Police and the CID were informed. The FBI also became involved in the investigation.\n\nThree days after Cox's disappearance, a public appeal for information was broadcast on nearby radio stations. The grounds of West Point were intensively searched by helicopter and by troops on the ground. The Lusk Reservoir was dragged, the banks of the Hudson River were searched and a nearby pond was drained. The manhunt lasted two months but produced no significant leads. A search of Army records for a soldier who had served with Cox and matched the description of \"George\", only led to individuals who could not have been at West Point at the time of the disappearance. Cox's service in Germany was investigated and revealed nothing out of the ordinary. The theory that he had deliberately deserted from West Point was discounted, as he had left behind in his room $87 (equivalent to $ when adjusted for inflation) and two suits of civilian clothes.\n\nOn March 15, 1950, Richard Cox was listed as absent without leave. He was declared legally dead in 1957.\n\nHarry J. Maihafer's book \"Oblivion\" (1996) documents the investigation conducted by Marshall Jacobs of Cadet Cox, who \"vanished without a trace\" from West Point in January 1950. Jacobs, a retired history teacher, began his research on the Cox disappearance in 1985. The more involved he became the more intrigued Jacobs became with Cox and the prior inconclusive investigations. It was inconceivable to Jacobs that after 35 years this mystery had not been solved.\n\nJacobs thoroughly investigated the case, traveling all around the country following up on new leads and revisiting old leads. He interviewed Cox's family, friends, service pals, and classmates; CIA, FBI, and CID agents; and West Point and Army officials. He researched West Point's archives and the files from the FBI, CIA, and CID investigations of Cox's disappearance, to which he gained access under the Freedom of Information Act. Jacobs conducted a comprehensive and thorough investigation that took him over eight years to complete. Among Jacobs' findings was that authorities had been remiss when they had discounted the theory that Richard Cox had disappeared deliberately. Jacobs came to believe that the presence of 87 dollars in Cox's shared room did not rule out the strong possibility that his visitor had helped him start a new career and life.\n\nWhen he was ready to reveal his findings Jacobs, admittedly not a writer, contacted Maihafer with hopes they could collaborate on a book. They did and the Jacobs investigation is revealed in the book \"Oblivion.\" The book has a section with photos including the snapshot that Cox's roommates took of him on January 7, 1950 sleeping off the effects of the alcohol he had consumed in his visitor's parked car a very short time earlier.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17602282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17602282", "title": "Sexual violence by intimate partners", "text": "Sexual violence by intimate partners\n\nSexual violence by intimate partners deals with the incidence by country of physical abuse, forced sex, or marital rape within the context of domestic violence. \n\nDomestic sexual violence, such as forced sex or marital rape, may follow or be part of physical abuse, but is not always the case. In Mexico and the United States, studies estimate that 40–52% of women experiencing physical violence by an intimate partner have also been sexually coerced by that partner. \n\nSexual violence may occur without physical violence. In the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, in a representative sample of over 6000 men, 7% reported having sexually and physically abused their wives, 22% reported using sexual violence without physical violence and 17% reported that they had used physical violence alone.\n\nStudies indicate that sexual assault by an intimate partner is neither rare nor unique to any particular region of the world. For instance, 23% of women in North London, England, reported having been the victim of either an attempted or completed rape by a partner in their lifetime. Similar figures have been reported for Guadalajara, Mexico (23.0%), León, Nicaragua, (21.7%), Lima, Peru (22.5%), and for the Midlands Province in Zimbabwe (25.0%). The prevalence of women sexually assaulted by an intimate partner in their lifetime (including attempted assaults) has also been estimated in a few national surveys (for example, Canada 8.0%, England, Wales and Scotland (combined) 14.2%, Finland 5.9%, Switzerland 11.6% and the United States 7.7%).\n\nThe table below summarizes some available data on the prevalence of sexual coercion by intimate partners.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26499412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26499412", "title": "Shock of birth", "text": "Shock of birth\n\nShock of birth is the transient depression of muscle tone and deep tendon reflexes that occurs in newborns after birth. In 70% of newborns, it lasts less than 24 hours, and in 84.3% less than 48 hours. Its presence is not affected by whether birth happened through vaginal delivery or cesarean delivery. The term was introduced in 1960.\n"}
{"id": "50585577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50585577", "title": "Status and conservation of the golden eagle", "text": "Status and conservation of the golden eagle\n\nAt one time, the golden eagle lived in a great majority of temperate Europe, North Asia, North America, North Africa, and Japan. Although widespread and quite secure in some areas, in many parts of the range golden eagles have experienced sharp population declines and have even been extirpated from some areas. The total number of individual golden eagles from around the range is estimated to range somewhere between 170,000 and 250,000 while the estimated total number of breeding pairs ranges from 60,000 to 100,000. Few other eagle species are as numerous, though some species like tawny eagle, wedge-tailed eagle and bald eagle have total estimated populations of a similar size to the golden eagle’s despite having distributions which are more restricted. The world’s most populous eagle may be the African fish eagle (\"Haliaeetus vocifer\"), which has a stable total population estimated at 300,000 individuals and is found solely in Africa. On a global scale, the golden eagle is not considered threatened by the IUCN.\n\nIn Europe, there are an estimated 6,000 to 10,000 breeding pairs. There was a great decline in Central Europe where they are now essentially restricted to the Apennine, Alps, and Carpathian Mountains. The strongholds in the continent are Spain, which holds an estimated 1,300 breeding pairs, Norway, which holds an estimated 860 to 1,040 breeding pairs and European Russia, which holds an estimated 500 to 1,000 breeding pairs. Other European countries with stable and sizable populations include Italy, with an estimated 476–541 pairs, Switzerland, with 300–310 pairs and Romania, with an estimated 85–130 pairs. The following nations are thought to have golden eagle populations that are increasing: Bulgaria with 150–170 pairs, Denmark with 1 known breeding pair, Finland with an estimated 300–350 pairs, France with approximately 390–460 pairs, Hungary with 3–5 known pairs, Ireland with 2 current pairs and Poland with approximately 35–40 pairs. The following nations are thought to have decreasing golden eagle populations: Albania with about 50–200 pair, Croatia with approximately 90–110 pairs, England with no known current pairs, Greece with an estimated 100–200 breeding pairs and Latvia with somewhere around 5–10 pairs. Several other European countries have a small number of golden eagles with less than 50 breeding pairs but with populations that are generally considered stable. Despite their large population there, the golden eagle was considered near threatened in Spain in a 2003 report. One of the authors of the previous study asserted that the population had increased in 2008 by perhaps 20% in Spain since the last survey in the late 1990s. In Belarus, the population has reportedly declined considerably due to trapping, poisoning and the draining and development of upland bogs. The golden eagle is considered Critically Endangered in the Czech Republic, where it was once quite common in the Beskydy and Krkonoše Mountains until logging hit the area hard around the time of World War II. All recent breeding attempts by the species in the Czech Republic are believed to have been unsuccessful.\n\nIn Britain, the last comprehensive survey of golden eagles took place in 2003, and found 442 occupied territories. A less thorough survey in 2007 showed that in addition to large numbers of territories in the Scottish Highlands and the Inner and Outer Hebrides, there were a handful of birds in southern Scotland and northern England. The population is higher today in Scotland than it was in the 19th century, due to the heavy persecution at that time by sheep farmers, gamekeepers, and collectors. There may have been as few as 190 pairs in the 1950s, though this survey may have not been complete. Between 1969 and 2003 they nested in the Lake District, Cumbria. In Ireland, where it had been extinct due to hunting since 1912, efforts are being made to re-introduce the species. In April 2007, a pair of golden eagles produced the first chick to be hatched in the Republic of Ireland in nearly a century. Forty-six birds were released into the wild in Glenveagh National Park, County Donegal, from 2001 to 2006, with at least three known female fatalities since then. It is intended to release a total of sixty birds, to ensure a viable population. The reintroduced golden eagles at the park produced a pair of fledglings for the first time in 2011. The golden eagle is classified as bird of “High Conservation Concern” in Ireland.\n\nFewer estimates are known from Asia and North Africa. A stronghold population is in mountainous Turkey, where the large population included an estimated 2,000–3,000 breeding pairs persist. In Japan, there is an estimated 175–260 breeding pairs, with a total population of approximately 500 individuals. One study stated that food shortages and decreases in suitable foraging habitat are assumed to be responsible for an observed decline in population size and reproductive success in Japan. In the Koreas, the golden eagle is known to be rarely observed and, in 2010, only 10 were seen in South Korea during winter birding censuses. Little is known in terms of population numbers elsewhere in Eurasia, with the IUCN estimating between 100 and 10,000 individuals each in China and in Russia, numbers that suggest the species occurs very sparsely in these massive countries. In North Africa, the main occurrence is in Morocco, which is estimated to hold 200 to 500 breeding pairs. There appear to much fewer in other North African countries, with small, scattered populations in Algeria, Tunisia and Egypt, areas where no immature-plumaged eagles were observed in 2005.\n\nIn North America the situation is not as dramatic. One estimate of the number of breeding pairs in the contiguous Western United States that excluded California, South Dakota, Montana and Oregon was 9,387. The state with the largest known winter count of golden eagles is Montana with 13,138, followed by Wyoming with 10,072, Colorado with 7,081 and Utah with 5,993. Wyoming had the highest estimated set of breeding pairs 3,381–4,174, followed by 1,800 in Utah, 1,200 in Nevada and California and Idaho both with around 500 pairs (notably, Montana was not included in these particular studies, although the breeding population must include well over a thousand pair there). In 6 out of 8 Canadian provinces where golden eagles breed, over 10,000 birds were observed in breeding bird surveys. In 1981, it was estimated that there were 63,242 wintering individual golden eagles in the 16 Western United States (excluding Alaska). However, there has still been a noticeable decline in some areas.\n\nAlmost all threats to golden eagles are attributable, directly or indirectly, to human activities. Human-sourced threats include: habitat change, persecution, poisoning (often directed at other species) and collisions with man-made objects. The most widespread unintentional threat to golden eagles by humans is urbanization and human-population growth which have made areas historically used by eagles unsuitable both in terms of habitat and prey availability. Habitat destruction in North America had, by the late 19th century, already driven golden eagles from some regions they used to inhabit. In Southern California and the Colorado Front Range, this has been proved via long-term population and habitat surveys. In Western China, the main threats to golden eagles are land development, the use of pesticides and captures for falconry. Fires since 1980 have caused large-scale losses of shrubs and jackrabbit habitat in areas used by eagles throughout the Intermountain West of North America. Wildfires that burned more 40,000 hectares of scrublands between 1981 and 1987 in the Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area affected nesting populations adversely. Nesting success at burned territories in Snake River Canyon declined after major fires. Abandoned burned territories have been subsumed by neighboring pairs, resulting in a decreased number of nesting pairs.\n\nWhere disturbance is regular, breeding failure for golden eagles is significantly more frequent. This was inferred in the 1982 Scottish breeding bird survey when disturbances were heavy in the Highlands. Sheep farmers and egg-collectors are the leading cause of disturbances at the nests. Recreation, forest management and development projects such as road construction, mining or power generation are other potential sources of disturbances. When disturbed by humans at the nest, the parents frequently leave their nest for a period of up to two hours, reduced provisioning rates, endangered eggs or young to predation, as well as overheating, chilling or desiccation. Human intrusion within of nests can cause a disturbance. Nesting success was found to be reduced in Norway during years where the Easter holidays fell early, due to the volume of vacationers in the countryside in these years during the pivotal early stages of nesting. During a study in Wrangell – St. Elias National Park and Preserve of Alaska, experimenters camped within of active nests, which led to reduced food delivery and nest attendance by the parents, then at , at which distance the disturbance of nesting behavior seemed to decrease considerably. The topography of the landscape and location of the nest can affect how closely the nest can be approached without disturbance. Mining and various types of energy development occur in eagle nesting and wintering habitat. The practice of surface coal mining threatens the limited nesting sites in Wyoming. In the Italian Apennines, high levels of nesting failures have been attributed directly to disturbance, due to increased tourism in remote mountain areas, construction of new roads and mining. Aggressive behavior by golden eagles due to a human presence near the nest is considered exceptional and usually will only result in minor injuries if any, as a particularly bold eagle may rarely attempt to dissuade a human trespasser. Golden eagles are somewhat sensitive to human disturbance even while not nesting. Experimental studies showed that pedestrians, which caused flushing at , were more likely to cause wintering golden eagles in Colorado to flush than vehicles, at . This study showed that golden eagles were more sensitive to human disturbance during winter than several other raptor species, including bald eagles.\n\nThe intentional killing of golden eagles has been a conservation hurdle for the species. Golden eagles are intentionally killed usually due to the fear of loss of livestock and game species. This is despite the findings of virtually every study of losses of stock to golden eagles has revealed that the actual amount of livestock killed by the eagles is negligible and financial restitution from conservation organizations should not be necessary, including those studies funded by the farming organizations or governmental programs seeking to justify the “control” of golden eagles. While illegal in most countries today, hunting, trapping and poisoning may still occur. In the United States, the golden eagle was given federally protected status in 1963. Occasionally, golden eagles may be caught in trap lines laid out to capture mammalian predators. In a study conducted in Scotland, areas were broken down into low disturbance areas (with a low human presence and limited history of persecution), moderate areas (where minor disturbances occur, mainly unintentionally from hill-walkers or rarely intentionally by egg-collectors) or severe disturbance areas (where persecution, heavy disturbance and considerable egg-collecting is believed to still occur). In low disturbance areas, about 45% of nests failed, in moderate disturbance areas about 74% failed and in severe disturbance areas 93% of nesting attempts failed. 73 out of 147 inaccessible nesting sites in this study (50%) produced fledglings, whereas more accessible nests produced fledglings in only 21 out of 68 nests (31%). \n\nPoisoning, both intentional and unintentional, is also a threat. The usual targets of carrion-poisoning are species such as coyotes, red fox and gray wolves, which are considered pests that threaten livestock. However, golden eagles are occasionally targeted as well for the same reasons. The main cause of mortality for golden eagles in Britain has been poisoning, 51 eagles have been verified to be killed by poisoning from 1980 to 2008 but the actual number killed is probably higher. A disproportionate amount of golden eagle poisonings in Scotland from 1981 to 2000 were linked to grouse moors (where grouse are kept for the pleasure of shooting) and were probably caused by gamekeepers deliberately poisoning eagles and foxes to keep their stock of grouse high. It is estimated that the adult survival rate is reduced by 3% to 5% in Scotland by intentional poisonings. In the 1980s, California ground squirrels, considered agricultural pests, were poisoned by the anticoagulant rodenticide, Chlorophacinone. In turn, the poisonings caused golden eagles, as one of the major natural predators of California ground squirrels, to die in turn. At least 10 individuals died in 1971 from eating Thallium(I) sulfate–laced pronghorn set out by sheep ranchers in Wyoming; despite public outcries, poisoning by sheep ranchers continued into the 1980s. In the 20th century, organochloride and heavy metal poisonings were also commonplace, but these have declined due to tighter regulations on pollution. In southern Idaho, 10 out of 17 golden eagles examined were found to have had exposure to lead. Golden eagles did not prove as susceptible to poisoning from the pesticide DDT as other large raptors, probably because of their diet of mammals. Eggs from golden eagle nests that were collected after 1946 in North America had shell thicknesses similar to (less than a 10% difference) those collected in earlier years. However, in Scotland egg shell thickness did decrease by around 10% from 1951 to 1965. A dead golden eagle collected on the Isle of Lewis had the highest concentration of organochlorine known from a modern bird in Scotland. The higher effects of organochlorines in Scotland may be due to the fact that birds there consume a relatively high quantity of seabirds, as opposed to North America, where this practice is rare.\n\nDeath by collisions with man-made structures and objects can be a serious local issue. Electrocution or collision with power lines has become an increasingly significant cause of mortality since the early 20th century. Juveniles birds are more susceptible than adults, being generally less cautious and physically adept. It is estimated that up to 70 golden eagles may be killed locally by wind turbines each year in west-central California, almost all of them being juveniles as opposed to adults which tend to remain on their home ranges that largely occur outside of the wind farm area. Collisions with automobiles rarely claim golden eagle lives, though instances of this can increase in desolate areas during winter, when road-side prey or carrion may attract the eagles.\n\nIn a few cases, mankind has accidentally benefited golden eagles by logging previously heavily wooded areas. This has been recorded in the 1800s and 1900s in the Appalachian Mountains of the Eastern United States, where reforestation has now made the habitat unsuitable for nesting eagles, and in Washington state, which still holds breeding eagles in desolate areas that have been logged. Afforestation, the commercial planting of non-native woodland, is a serious issue in Scotland, with the largest amount of it occurring in southwestern Scotland, especially in Argyll. During afforestation, the land is plowed and over 2,500 seedlings are planted per hectare, mainly with exotic conifers including Sitka spruce (\"Picea sitchensis\") and lodgepole pine (\"Pinus contorta\"). The woodland canopy closes and ground vegetation dies, making these dark and gloomy places until harvesting in 40 to 50 years. More than 50% of land in Scotland at an elevation of has been planted as such. Afforestation requires removal of sheep and the fencing out or shooting deer, both important sources of carrion for golden eagles. Foraging areas of golden eagles have been confirmed to not include afforested areas.\n\nThe golden eagle is not threatened at the species level but efforts need to be taken to prevent extinctions from many northern countries. The primary efforts undertaken to conserve the species have been, in order of prevalence from highest to lowest: conservation education and awareness, policy protection, directed land management, legislation and law enforcement and the provision of indentures. In Scotland, only 3 out of 16 regions in Scotland occupied by golden eagles since 1982 have been deemed favorable for conservation status, based upon the extent of local persecution, prey abundance and habitat change. The United Kingdom has put in place deterrent legislation to prevent behavior around the nest with the potential to cause harm and acts of willful harm to white-tailed eagles and some have advocated using the same policies for golden eagles. Education in this region mainly is undertaken by the Royal Society for Protection of Birds (RSPB). To curb the destructive practice of afforestation, some locals have switched to planting native Caledonian pine forests instead, likely resulting in much less harm to the native fauna possibly including golden eagles. While conservation efforts in Scotland have previously included the setting aside Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs), these are usually too small to benefit golden eagles. More recently, the United Kingdom government has instead taken from governmental policies enacted in Continental Europe the idea of Special Protection Areas (SPAs), which offers strong legal protection of single species. Potentially more than may be set aside in Scotland as SPA for golden eagles. Some education of mountain-climbers in country holding breeding golden eagles has been undertaken by the Mountaineering Council of Scotland. Within the United States, the golden eagle is legally protected by the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act. In the United States, many studies of the effects of industrialization and development have been undertaken by the very companies attempting to develop near areas holding golden eagles, in order to understand and hopefully minimize harmful effects. For example, Swan Falls electric power-plant in southern Idaho has funded research into the effects of reconstruction activities on breeding raptors (including the golden eagles), the Arch Mineral Corporation has funded studies attempting to test and successfully relocate golden eagle nests and KENETECH Windpower and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory have funded research into the effects of turbine-based wind energy on golden eagles. In the 1970s in the United States, bounds were made to reduce the number of golden eagles to die from electrocution and wire-collisions. The primary change has been to raise the central insulator more than above the cross-arm and to position the ground-wire at a lower height on the pole, both likely to reduce the probability of golden eagles striking the wires with their wings. Also, the power company may place an insulating tube from on either side of the pole attachment or, especially if the previous modifications are not feasible, install raised perches at the top of the power pole. In Spain, the issue of electrocutions is more intractable because all pylons were made out of metal, which makes them much more dangerous to wildlife flying into them.\n\nOn the conservation front, the golden eagle is unintentionally contributing to the conservation crisis of another animal, the island fox, a small insular relative of the gray fox found only in the Channel Islands of California. The island fox had evolved without major natural predators but the large breeding population of golden eagles in California is feeding partially on the foxes, whose already declining population cannot support sustained predation. \n\nAlso in North America, attempts to reintroduce endangered whooping cranes by mixing them with flocks of sandhill cranes have been largely unsuccessful in part due to natural predators picking off the unnaturally unwary birds. Although the chief predator has been bobcats, golden eagles are one of the other predators that are habitually killing the birds. \n\nThe golden eagle may be a competitor and, rarely, a predator of the recently reintroduced California condors in central Arizona and southern California, but the pressure exerted by the eagles on condors are seemingly minor, especially in contrast to manmade conservation issues for the species such as lead poisoning from bullets left in hunter-killed ungulate carcasses.\n\nIn Scotland, the common hen harrier has been the subject of much unfavorable attention due to the fact that it is a habitual predator of the chicks of red grouse, a subspecies considered to be near threatened in the nation. One of the methods to control harrier numbers has been proposed is to encourage a population increase of golden eagles, which may also hunt grouse but are unlikely to cull young grouse and tend to outcompete and sometimes hunt the harriers themselves.\n"}
{"id": "8853302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8853302", "title": "Steen Rasmussen", "text": "Steen Rasmussen\n\nSteen Rasmussen (born 7 July 1955) is a Danish physicist mainly working in the areas of artificial life and complex systems. He is currently a professor in physics and a center director at University of Southern Denmark as well as an external research professor at the Santa Fe Institute. His formal training was at the Technical University of Denmark (1985 PhD in physics of complex systems) and University of Copenhagen (philosophy). He spent 20 years as a researcher at Los Alamos National Laboratory (1988-2007) the last five years as a leader of the Self-Organized Systems team. He has been part of the Santa Fe Institute since 1988.\n\nThe main scientific effort of Steen Rasmussen over the last ten years has been to explore, understand and construct a transition from nonliving to living materials. Bridging this gap requires an interdisciplinary scientific effort, which is why he has assembled, sponsored and lead research teams in the US, across Europe and in Denmark. He became a scientific team leader in 2002 at Los Alamos National Laboratory, USA, and he has since held research leadership positions at the Santa Fe Institute, University of Copenhagen and University of Southern Denmark. Since late 2007 he has been the director of the Center for Fundamental Living Technology at University of Southern Denmark.\n\nSteen Rasmussen has for many years been actively engaged in the public discourse regarding science and society and on this background he founded the Initiative for Science, Society and Policy (ISSP) in 2009. ISSP is currently funded by two Danish universities, has a Director, five Science Focus Leaders and a Science Board.\n\n"}
{"id": "1389264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1389264", "title": "The Missing (2003 film)", "text": "The Missing (2003 film)\n\nThe Missing is a 2003 American Revisionist Western thriller film directed by Ron Howard, based on Thomas Eidson's 1996 novel \"The Last Ride\". The film is set in 1885 New Mexico Territory and is notable for the authentic use of the Apache language by various actors, some of whom spent long hours studying it. The film was produced by Revolution Studios, Imagine Entertainment, and Daniel Ostroff Productions and distributed by Columbia Pictures.\n\nIn late 19th-century New Mexico, Samuel Jones reappears hoping to reconcile with his adult daughter Magdalena \"Maggie\" Gilkeson. She is unable to forgive him for abandoning the family and leaving her mother to a hard life and early death. This situation changes when Pesh-Chidin and a dozen of his followers (who have left the reservation) pass through the area, ritualistically killing settlers and taking their daughters to be sold into sex slavery in Mexico. Among those captured is Maggie's eldest daughter, Lilly. Maggie's rancher boyfriend Brake Baldwin was among the settlers killed. \n\nThe U.S. Cavalry refuses to help retrieve the captive women as its resources are tied up conducting forced relocation of captive Native Americans. This leaves Maggie, her father, and her younger daughter Dot alone in tracking the attackers. The group unexpectedly meets up with Kayitah, a Chiricahua, and an old friend of Jones, who also happens to be tracking the attackers with his son Honesco, because among the captives is a young Chiricahua woman who is engaged to Honesco. After the two agree to join the group, and Maggie treats Honesco's injuries, Kayitah informs Maggie that Jones had been a member of their Chiricahua band where he gained the name Chaa-duu-ba-its-iidan (\"shit for luck\") during his wanderings.\n\nIt is finally with the combined efforts of the two families that they are able to free the women, at the cost of Kayitah's life, and immediately flee to the mountains with the kidnappers behind them. Knowing they have no other choice but to stand their ground, the group fights off the remaining kidnappers. During the battle, Jones fights El Brujo, the one responsible for kidnapping his granddaughter. When Brujo attempts to kill Maggie with a shotgun, Jones sacrifices his life to save his daughter as both he and Brujo fall off a cliff to their deaths. Maggie shoots at the last remaining kidnappers to scare them off. She realizes her father's love for her and finally forgives him.\n\nThen she goes home with her father’s body, her daughters and the other kidnapped girls.\n\n\nThe film earned mixed reviews from critics, earning it a 58% rating on Rotten Tomatoes with the general consensus being: \"an expertly acted and directed Western. But like other Ron Howard features, the movie is hardly subtle.\" Philip French of \"The Observer\" referred to the film as Howard’s \"finest film to date,\" and Michael Wilmington of the \"Chicago Tribune\" called it the \"best and toughest western since \"Unforgiven\".\" \n\n\"The Missing\" was well received among Native American populations within the United States, many of which citing the use of the Apache language to be clearly spoken and well understood. Actors such as Tommy Lee Jones, Jay Tavare, Simon R. Baker, and others had to learn to speak the Chiricahua dialect of the Apache language that was used throughout the film. Tavare has noted that there are only about 300 people still fluent in Chiricahua today, and following screenings of the film, Native American students said the film helped stimulate pride through its authenticity.\n\n\"The Missing\" grossed $27 million domestically and $11.4 million internationally for a worldwide total of $38.4 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "58858617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58858617", "title": "The e!DAL Plant Phenomics and Genomics Research Data Repository", "text": "The e!DAL Plant Phenomics and Genomics Research Data Repository\n\nThe Plant Genomics and Phenomics Research Data Repository (PGP) is a data publication infrastructure to comprehensively publish multi-domain plant research data. It is hosted at the Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research (IPK) in Gatersleben, Germany. The repository hosts DOI citeable datasets that are not being published in public repositories because of its volume or data scope. PGP enable the publication of gigabyte scale datasets and is registered as research data repository at FAIRSharing.org, re3data.org and OpenAIRE as valid EU Horizon 2020 open data archive. Above features, the programmatic interface and the support of standard metadata formats, enable PGP to fulfil the FAIR data principles—findable, accessible, interoperable, reusable. The PGP repository was created using the e!DAL software infrastructure and applies the \"bring the infrastructure to the data\" (I2D) approach.\n\nAll submitted and approved data will be hosted at IPK Gatersleben and is long-term stable citable by an DOI. All datsets are linked in ORCID and index by all major web search engines. The PGP repository is accepted by data journals like GigaScience and Nature Scientific Data as recommended data repository. All published datasets may be explored in the PGP data report application or retrieved using the DataCite search web application.\n\nThe PGP repository accept submissions from European plant science community. The web based submission tool for small datasets and Java desktop submission tool for gigabyte scale datasets use the ELIXIR Authentication and Authorization Infrastructure (AAI). A review process ensures the technical quality of data submissions.\n\nThe PGP repository is a part of the service portfolio of the \"German Crop BioGreenformatics Network\" (GCBN) node of the German Network for Bioinformatics Infrastructure.\n\n"}
{"id": "12975116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12975116", "title": "Tom Gamboa", "text": "Tom Gamboa\n\nThomas Harold Gamboa (born February 28, 1948) is the former manager of the Brooklyn Cyclones.\n\nGamboa has managed in the minor leagues as high as AAA (the Toledo Mud Hens in the International League and the Albuquerque Dukes in the Pacific Coast League), and coached first and third base as well as in the bullpen for major league teams (the Chicago Cubs and Kansas City Royals). In September 2016, Gamboa was the bench coach for Israel at the 2017 World Baseball Classic qualifier, and he continued in the same role for Team Israel at the 2017 World Baseball Classic main tournament in South Korea and Japan.\n\nGamboa was born in Los Angeles, California, and now lives in Rancho Mirage, California. He was raised by his mother, Polly, and his step-father (whose surname he took), Jack Donald Gamboa. Gamboa is fluent in Spanish. He has five children. His son Brett is an assistant professor of English at Dartmouth College. \n\nHe was drafted out of Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, California, where he was a first baseman, by the Baltimore Orioles, but instead attended the University of California, Santa Barbara (B.A., History, 1971) on a full scholarship. There, he played primarily center field, along with a little first base, for the Gauchos baseball team for three years and won All-Big West Conference honors in 1969 and 1970.\n\nDuring the 1971–1972 seasons Gamboa was an outfielder for and manager of Stratford (Ontario) in the Canadian Baseball League, where he was a two-time All-Star.\n\nGamboa was a manager, minor league instructor, and scouting supervisor in the Milwaukee Brewers organization from 1978–1982. In 1979, at the age of 31, he managed the Butte Copper Kings in the Rookie Pioneer League. In 1983 he managed the Paintsville Brewers in the Rookie Appalachian League to a league-leading .653 won-loss percentage, and the league title. In 1984 he managed the Beloit Brewers in the Class A Midwest League to a Central Division-leading .619 won-lost percentage, and was voted Manager of the Year. In 1985 he managed the Stockton Ports in the Class A California League to a North Division-leading .566 won-loss percentage, and the Division championship.\n\nIn 1986 he managed the Bristol Tigers in the Appalachian League and served as the Detroit Tigers western states scouting director, and in 1987 he managed the Glens Falls Tigers in the AA Eastern League; both, affiliates of the Detroit Tigers. He was the minor league field coordinator for the Detroit Tigers from 1987–1990. He managed the Toledo Mud Hens in the AAA International League for the Detroit Tigers in 1990. He was the Director of Minor League Instruction for the San Diego Padres from 1991-94. He was the Chicago Cubs' Minor League Field Coordinator from 1995–1998.\n\nIn 2000, he managed the Dodgers' Albuquerque Dukes of the AAA Pacific Coast League to a Central Division-leading .597 won-lost percentage and title.\n\nIn 2005, he managed the Arkansas Travelers of the AA Texas League to the Texas League Eastern Division title for the Los Angeles Angels. In 2006 and 2007, he was Minor League Outfield/Baserunning Coordinator for the San Diego Padres. In 2009, he was the minor league field coordinator for the Padres.\n\nIn 2011, he managed the Inland Empire 66ers of the Class A+ California League (through June, when he resigned to spend time with his 85-year-old mother, who was terminally ill with advanced cancer), an affiliate of the Los Angeles Angels. That year he also played \"Scout Martinez\" in the Oscar-nominated 2011 baseball movie \"Moneyball\".\n\nDuring the 2012 California Winter League (Palm Springs, California), Gamboa served as the Field Coordinator.\n\nFrom 2014 to 2016, he managed the Brooklyn Cyclones of the Short-Season A New York-Pennsylvania League, an affiliate of the New York Mets.\n\nFrom 1973-1975 he was a scout for the Baltimore Orioles, and from 1976–1977 he was a scout for the Major League Baseball Scouting Bureau.\n\nHe was the Chicago Cubs' first base and third base coach in 1998–1999.\n\nGamboa was a Major League coach for the Kansas City Royals from 2001–2003, serving as the bullpen coach in 2001 and 2003 and the team's first base coach in 2002. While he was the Royals first base coach, he was attacked on the field at Comiskey Park by two fans during a game against the Chicago White Sox on September 19, 2002. Gamboa suffered permanent hearing loss in his right ear.\n\nGamboa managed the Indios de Mayagüez in Puerto Rico's Liga de Béisbol Profesional Roberto Clemente in seven winter league seasons from 1995–96 through 2002–03, reaching the finals in six seasons and winning three championships, managed in six Puerto Rican League All-Star games, and was named Manager of the Year following the 1995–96 and 1996-97 seasons. In 2002, he was inducted into the Association of Major League Legends of Latin America.\n\nGamboa managed Naranjeros de Hermosillo in the Liga Mexicana del Pacífico winter league in 2004.\n\nIn September 2016, Gamboa was the bench coach for Israel at the 2017 World Baseball Classic qualifier. In an interview, he said he was serving as a Coach, due to his longtime friendship with Manager Jerry Weinstein, and his knowledge of MCU Park (where the Qualifier was being played) even though he wasn't Jewish. He continued in a similar role for Team Israel at the 2017 World Baseball Classic main tournament in South Korea and Japan. During those games, Gamboa served as 3B coach as well.\n\nIn 2010, he managed the Palm Springs Power of the Southern California Collegiate Baseball League to a 34-4 mark, the best in team history.\n\nIn 2018, he and David Russell co-wrote the autobiography \"Tom Gamboa: My Life In Baseball\" (McFarland), which sports columnist Mike Vaccaro of \"The New York Post\" described as \"a fun read,\" and Lloyd Carroll of \"NY Sports Day\" described as \"a fascinating look at a baseball professional who has spent as most of his life beating the bushes of baseball’s minor leagues.\" The book’s forward is written by baseball player Doug Glanville.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326976", "title": "Vagus nerve stimulation", "text": "Vagus nerve stimulation\n\nVagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is a medical treatment that involves delivering electrical impulses to the vagus nerve. It is used as an add-on treatment for certain types of intractable epilepsy and treatment-resistant depression. Frequent side effects include coughing and shortness of breath. Serious side effects may include trouble talking and cardiac arrest.\n\nVNS devices are used to treat drug-resistant epilepsy and treatment-resistant major depressive disorder (TR-MDD). Specifically it is used for treatment-resistant focal epilepsy. As of 2017 the efficacy of VNS for TR-MDD was unclear.\n\nFor the treatment of epilepsy generally the left vagus nerve is stimulated at mid-cervical region. The adverse effects of this stimulation include cardiac arrest, bradycardia, voice alteration and hoarseness, cough, shortness of breath, pain, a tingling sensation, nausea, and headache; difficulty swallowing has also been reported as common, as well as sleepiness.\n\nIn randomized controlled trials for epilepsy conducted in the United States, one-third of the subjects had some type of an increase in seizures, with 17 percent having greater than a 25 percent increase, some had 100 percent increase or more.\n\nAs of 2017 little was understood about exactly how vagal nerve stimulation modulates mood and seizure control.\n\nThe vagus is the tenth cranial nerve and arises from the medulla; it carries both afferent and efferent fibers. The afferent vagal fibers connect to the nucleus of the solitary tract which in turn projects connections to other locations in the central nervous system. Proposed mechanisms include an anti-inflammatory effect, as well as changes in monoamines.\n\nThe device consists of a generator the size of a matchbox that is implanted under the skin below the person’s collarbone. Lead wires from the generator are tunnelled up to the patient’s neck and wrapped around the left vagus nerve at the carotid sheath, where it delivers electrical impulses to the nerve.\n\nImplantation of the VNS device is usually done as an out-patient procedure. The procedure goes as follows: an incision is made in the upper left chest and the generator is implanted into a little \"pouch\" on the left chest under the collarbone. A second incision is made in the neck, so that the surgeon can access the vagus nerve. The surgeon then wraps the leads around the left branch of the vagus nerve, and connects the electrodes to the generator. Once successfully implanted, the generator sends electric impulses to the vagus nerve at regular intervals. The left vagus nerve is stimulated rather than the right because the right plays a role in cardiac function such that stimulating it could have negative cardiac effects. The \"dose\" administered by the device then needs to be set, which is done via a magnetic wand; the parameters adjusted include current, frequency, pulse width, and duty cycle.\n\n\"Wearable\" devices are being tested and developed that involve transcutaneous stimulation and do not require surgery. Electrical impulses are targeted at the aurical (ear), at points where branches of the vagus nerve have cutaneous representation; such devices had been tested in clinical trials for treatment resistant major depressive disorder as of 2017.\n\nIn 1997, the US Food and Drug Administration’s neurological devices panel met to consider approval of an implanted vagus nerve stimulator (VNS) for epilepsy, requested by Cyberonics (which was subsequently renamed to LivaNova).\n\nThe FDA approved an implanted VNS for TR-MDD in 2005.\n\nIn April 2017, the FDA cleared marketing of a handheld noninvasive vagus nerve stimulator, called \"gammaCore\" and made by ElectroCore LLC, for episodic cluster headaches, under the de novo pathway. In January 2018, the FDA cleared a new user for that device for the treatment of migraine pain in adults under a 510(k) based on the de novo clearance.\n\nAlthough the use of VNS for TRD has been endorsed by the American Psychiatric Association, the FDA's approval of VNS for TRD remains controversial. According to Dr. A. John Rush, vice chairman for research in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas, results of the VNS pilot study showed that 40 percent of the treated patients displayed at least a 50 percent or greater improvement in their condition, according to the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale. Many other studies concur that VNS is indeed efficacious in treating depression. However, these findings do not take into account improvements over time in patients without the device. In the only randomized controlled trial VNS failed to perform any better when turned on than in otherwise similar implanted patients whose device was not turned on.\n\nBecause the vagus nerve is associated with many different functions and brain regions, clinical research has been done to determine its usefulness in treating other illnesses, including various anxiety disorders, obesity, alcohol addiction, chronic heart failure, prevention of arrhythmias that can cause sudden cardiac death, autoimmune disorders, and several chronic pain conditions.\n\nVNS has also been studied in small trials of people with neurodevelopmental disorders, generally who also have had epilepsy, including Landau-Kleffner syndrome, Rett syndrome, and autism spectrum disorders.\n\nAs of 2015 VNS devices were being developed that were not implanted, but rather transmitted signals through the skin. Electrical impulses are targeted at the aurical (ear), at points where branches of the vagus nerve are close to the surface.\n\nVNS is being studied as of 2018 as a treatment for migraines and fibromyalgia.\n\n"}
