{"id": "55080525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55080525", "title": "African American Beauty", "text": "African American Beauty\n\nBeauty is a perceived characteristic of an animal, idea, object, person or place that provides a perceptual experience of pleasure or satisfaction. Many people define beauty as something that is subjective, being that it is in the \"eye of the beholder\" to see what he or she thinks is actually beautiful. This \"eye\" is seen in many different cultures with each having a different preference. This subjective can be seen throughout history, especially in the African-American community. With the presence of oppression in the past, African-American cultural beauty has bend mended and redefined in many ways.\n\nEven before the United States had been formed, the idea of beauty was one which was seen throughout different societies. In ancient Egypt, women were classified based on their skin tone; the woman with lighter skin tones were seen as higher class because unlike the woman in the working class they did not spend their days working under the sun, and the judgement based on skin tone is one that was seen through slavery as well. Within the United States, the definition of beauty was mainly set by Whites, since they were slaves owners, and were in numerous ways, considered to be the superior race. Beginning from as early as 1619, African-American women's beauty has been compared to Caucasian beauty standards, mainly in two areas: hair and skin color. Even though African-American slaves were not seen as beautiful by some slave masters, that did not stop them from having intimacies with many of them, which resulted in lighter skinned offspring During slavery, those who were of lighter complexion and had more European features, did not work in the hot scorching sun with the darker complexioned slaves. The lighter toned slaves tended to be house slaves. The idea of African-Americans being assimilated to obtain more \"acceptable\" or \"beautiful\" features slowly becomes juxtaposed with the abolishment of slavery by way of the Emancipation Proclamation, written by Abraham Lincoln. \n\nAfrican-American hair has, and still is sometimes seen as unprofessional and inappropriate to most white standards. Many people argue that imitation European standards of beauty was a necessity to the prosperity of blacks and how they would be accepted by white culture (mainly in the workplace). One of the main efforts of assimilation was to straighten African-American hair. This can be seen in history through figures such as Malcolm X, who was a Civil Rights Activist in the 1950s. Malcolm X relaxed his hair using, what was then called a “conk”, which consisted of lye. One experience he had consisted of the lye burning he scalp at the same time his water went out. He resulted in putting his head inside of a toilet to get the product out of his hair. This was his realization that his attempt to become more presentable was also his biggest mistake.\n\nThroughout history, African-American culture has evolved in such a way that their beauty standards too became their own. Each time frame has its own standard of what beauty is, but many of them stick closely to natural beauty, without much processing taking place. The hair, clothes, styles, expectations (of a man or woman), and everything in between changes as time changes. During the 1960s, the Afro was cultivated. During the 1980s and early 1990s West African hairstyles began to regain their fame, including: braids, twists, cornrows, and much more. Towards the end of the twentieth century, the Jheri curl was introduced, but most African-Americans chose dreadlocks, fades, or other styles that used their own natural hair texture. During these time periods, the development of African-American music was mainstream with hip hop, which included foul language, violence, and truth in lyrics. Many R&B groups and Rap groups/rappers glorified the beauty of the natural woman, with her accentuating curves and even her flaws.\n\nWhite culture subdues African-Americans in many aspects. The past and present culture that America lives in criticizes blacks for the styles or trends that they create and later copy them and become coined as “trendy” or “fashionable”. Many celebrities have showed examples of this appropriation in most recent years. Miley Cyrus, for example, at one point in 2015, wore her hair in faux dreadlocks at an award’s show and was seen as being edgy. Zendaya, a celebrity of African-American descent, also wore her hair in dreadlocks at an awards show later on that year, but was publicly criticized for looking like “she smells like … weed” by Entertainment News host Giuliana Rancic in one of her TV appearances. Also celebrities like the Kardashian and Jenner family have made names for themselves by basically using black attributes and culture to their advantage.\n\nWithin the United States, the beauty of African-American woman continued to be ostracized in society by not allowing African-American woman to participate in [Miss America] beauty contests until 30 years after their beginning. The beauty contests within the United States were the beginnings of ideal beauty portrayed in the media.\n"}
{"id": "40198576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40198576", "title": "Black Sea (film)", "text": "Black Sea (film)\n\nBlack Sea is a 2014 submarine disaster thriller film directed by Kevin Macdonald, written by Dennis Kelly, and starring Jude Law. The film was released in the United Kingdom on 5 December 2014, and in the United States on 23 January 2015.\n\nRobinson (Jude Law), a veteran captain of under-sea salvage who is recently divorced and estranged from his young son, receives news that he is to be made redundant. His employer gives him £8,640 severence pay and he is asked to clean out his desk and leave the premises immediately.\n\nLater, while having a drink with some former colleagues, Robinson meets up with his friend Kurston and a Russian called Blackie (Konstantin Khabensky). Kurston informs the duo of an idea to make money. He tells them about a German Type VIIC U-boat from World War II that sank off the coast of Georgia with a cargo of gold worth millions and how their former employer found the U-boat's location but was unable to salvage it due to the Russo-Georgian War. He also informs them both of a plan he has been working on to secretly recover the gold. After meeting with Kurston, Robinson agrees to meet with an unknown backer called Lewis.\n\nLewis agrees to fund Robinson's expedition on the grounds he receives a 40% split of the proceeds up to $40 million, a 20% cut on any amount above that, and that his executive Daniels (Scoot McNairy) accompany the expedition. Robinson agrees to the deal. Upon returning home Robinson finds a youth, Tobin, who notifies him of Kurston's suicide and indicates they were friends. Robinson takes the young man in and decides to bring him along on the expedition, and acquires a from the Port of Sevastopol. The crew is 50% Russian and 50% British and almost immediately there are issues between the two groups. Only Blackie speaks Russian and English and the Russians view the young Tobin as a bad omen, mistakenly assuming he is a virgin when he is in fact an expecting father.\n\nDue to the close confines, tension begins to mount between the two crews. Robinson makes the decision to split the take equally between each crewman. Due to the mounting pressures the crew fall out and there is a fight leading to Fraser (Ben Mendelsohn) losing his head and stabbing and killing Blackie. In the ensuing scuffle a fire breaks out and the sub is damaged leading to an explosion which knocks Robinson unconscious and kills at least 2 men.\n\nRobinson wakes up 18 hours later to find tensions at breaking point. The Russians have taken over half of the boat with the British in the other half. The vessel is also badly damaged and they have no means to speak with the Russians as Blackie was killed. The sub's drive shaft is damaged but they discover they are close to the old U-boat and may be able to transfer its drive shaft and save the boat. Tensions continue to mount but Robinson discovers Morozov (Grigoriy Dobrygin) speaks English.\n\nRobinson sends Tobin with Fraser and another diver to recover the drive-shaft and the gold. While making their way back, the third diver (David Threlfall) perishes when his air hose gets cut. Through Morozov they manage to get the Russians to install the drive-shaft and get the sub moving again. At this stage Daniels admits to Robinson that his prior employer set them up such that they are being used to do the dangerous work, while the employer waits to seize the gold as soon as the submarine surfaces. Robinson then decides to remain submerged and travel to Turkey, to try to keep the gold and avoid arrest. Furthermore, he decides they will attempt a risky navigation through a narrow channel, against the wishes of the crew. Meanwhile Daniels persuades Fraser to murder Zaytsev thus forcing Robinson's hand, since there are no longer enough men to safely operate the sub. At this point a second fire and explosion sends the sub back to the seafloor, and the sub begins to take on water.\n\nFraser and the rest of the remaining crew try to repair the leaks but their efforts are futile. Before they can escape, a panicked Daniels locks the bulkhead behind him leaving three men to drown but traps himself in the next compartment with his snagged clothing. Morozov closes the final bulkhead, leaving Daniels to drown and protecting Robinson, Tobin, and himself in the torpedo section where Robinson has hidden three escape suits. Robinson evacuates Tobin and Morozov and explains to Tobin that he will follow in the third suit using an emergency lever. Both men surface whereupon Morozov informs the young Tobin that there was no emergency lever and that Robinson had chosen to sacrifice himself. Soon after the third suit appears containing some of the gold and a picture of Robinson's family.\n\n\nOn 14 February 2012, news confirmed that director Kevin Macdonald was working with writer Dennis Kelly on his new film project \"Black Sea\". On 25 April 2013, Focus Features acquired the international distribution rights to the film for Cannes Film Festival, but when Focus Features International was shut down on 31 December 2013, Sierra / Affinity took over international sales for the film as Focus Features distribute the film and \"Kill the Messenger\" when it was announced on 5 February 2014.\n\nOn 25 April 2013, Jude Law joined the cast of \"Black Sea\" as the lead actor. Scoot McNairy joined the cast of the film on 17 June 2013, in the role of a sailor who convinces the captain to undertake a mission.\n\nOn 8 August 2013, Focus Features CEO James Schamus and co-CEO Andrew Karpen announced that the shooting of the film \"Black Sea\" has started in the United Kingdom. The filming of scenes took place on the River Medway in Strood.\nThe ex-Soviet Navy Foxtrot-class submarine \"U-475 \"Black Widow\", which is moored on the Medway near Rochester and Strood, was used for some exterior shots. A scene showing the submarine setting sail shows Grain Power Station (or possibly Kingsnorth Power Station) in the background, briefly, though the submarine itself is likely CGI since the actual U-475 is not seaworthy.\n\n\"Black Sea\" was released on 5 December 2014, in British cinemas. It had a limited release in the US on 23 January 2015.\n\nOn review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 80% based on 130 reviews, with an average rating of 6.4/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"Black Sea\" may not be particularly deep, but thanks to Kevin Macdonald's judicious direction and a magnetic performance from Jude Law, it remains an efficiently well-crafted thriller.\" On Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating to reviews, the film has a weighted average score of 62 out of 100, based on reviews from 33 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nWriting about its influences from \"The Treasure of the Sierra Madre\" and \"Sorcerer\", Mark Kermode of \"The Guardian\" said, \"While it may not rival the films to which it alludes, this remains a convincingly muscular genre piece with plenty of dramatic clout.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31160993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31160993", "title": "Black Spark", "text": "Black Spark\n\nBlack Spark is an anonymous male American film director and photographer (born on 14 August 1990) who is most noted for his hypersexualized music videos and unique surreal style. He began posting videos in the fourth quarter of 2010. He has stated in interviews that he is bisexual, that all videos are about his own sex life, and that he is influenced by art pornography from the 1970s.\n\nMuch speculation about his identity has been made. Some sources claimed to have identified him as an adult film actor or model who has done scenes for a web company called \"CollegeDudes\".\n\nBlack Spark has given reasons in interviews as to why he has chosen to be anonymous. His everyday real life is the opposite of Black Spark's hypersexualized life, he works on other projects, and he doesn't want the Black Spark identity to hinder his \"large-scale future plans in film\".\n"}
{"id": "37558701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37558701", "title": "Book of Burial", "text": "Book of Burial\n\nThe Book of Burial (Chinese:  ,  ,  \"Zàngshū\") was an AD 4th- or 5th-century work by the Taoist mystic Guo Pu. \n\nThe work was a commentary on the now-lost \"Classic of Burial\" ( ,  ); as it survived and transmitted the classic's teachings, the \"Book of Burial\"'s principles relating the flow of \"qi\" to the appropriateness of a tomb's location were influential on the development of \"fengshui\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "168536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168536", "title": "Bulimia nervosa", "text": "Bulimia nervosa\n\nBulimia nervosa, also known as simply bulimia, is an eating disorder characterized by binge eating followed by purging. Binge eating refers to eating a large amount of food in a short amount of time. Purging refers to the attempts to get rid of the food consumed. This may be done by vomiting or taking laxatives. Other efforts to lose weight may include the use of diuretics, stimulants, water fasting, or excessive exercise. Most people with bulimia are at a normal weight. The forcing of vomiting may result in thickened skin on the knuckles and breakdown of the teeth. Bulimia is frequently associated with other mental disorders such as depression, anxiety, and problems with drugs or alcohol. There is also a higher risk of suicide and self-harm.\nBulimia is more common among those who have a close relative with the condition. The percentage risk that is estimated to be due to genetics is between 30% and 80%. Other risk factors for the disease include psychological stress, cultural pressure to attain a certain body type, poor self-esteem, and obesity. Living in a culture that promotes dieting and having parents that worry about weight are also risks. Diagnosis is based on a person's medical history; however, this is difficult, as people are usually secretive about their binge eating and purging habits. Further, the diagnosis of anorexia nervosa takes precedence over that of bulimia. Other similar disorders include binge eating disorder, Kleine-Levin syndrome, and borderline personality disorder.\nCognitive behavioral therapy is the primary treatment for bulimia. Antidepressants of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) or tricyclic antidepressant classes may have a modest benefit. While outcomes with bulimia are typically better than in those with anorexia, the risk of death among those affected is higher than that of the general population. At 10 years after receiving treatment about 50% of people are fully recovered.\nGlobally, bulimia was estimated to affect 3.6 million people in 2015. About 1% of young women have bulimia at a given point in time and about 2% to 3% of women have the condition at some point in their lives. The condition is less common in the developing world. Bulimia is about nine times more likely to occur in women than men. Among women, rates are highest in young adults. Bulimia was named and first described by the British psychiatrist Gerald Russell in 1979.\n\nBulimia typically involves rapid and out-of-control eating, which may stop when the bulimic is interrupted by another person or the stomach hurts from over-extension, followed by self-induced vomiting or other forms of purging. This cycle may be repeated several times a week or, in more serious cases, several times a day and may directly cause:\n\nThese are some of the many signs that may indicate whether someone has bulimia nervosa:\n\nAs with many psychiatric illnesses, delusions can occur, in conjunction with other signs and symptoms, leaving the person with a false belief that is not ordinarily accepted by others.\n\nPeople with bulimia nervosa may also exercise to a point that excludes other activities.\n\nWith regards to interoception, people with bulimia report reduced sensitivity to many kinds of internal and external sensations. For example, some show increased thresholds to heat pain compared and report the same level of satiety after consuming more calories than do healthy subjects.\n\nBulimics are much more likely than non-bulimics to have an affective disorder, such as depression or general anxiety disorder: A 1985 Columbia University study on female bulimics at New York State Psychiatric Institute found 70% had suffered depression some time in their lives (as opposed to 25.8% for adult females in a control sample from the general population), rising to 88% for all affective disorders combined. Another study by the Royal Children's Hospital in Melbourne on a cohort of 2,000 adolescents similarly found that those meeting at least two of the DSM-IV criteria for bulimia nervosa or anorexia nervosa had a sixfold increase in risk of anxiety and a doubled risk for substance dependency.\nSome sufferers of anorexia nervosa exhibit episodes of bulimic tendencies through purging (either through self-induced vomiting or laxatives) as a way to quickly remove food in their system. There may be an increased risk for diabetes mellitus type 2. Bulimia also has negative effects on a person's teeth due to the acid passed through the mouth from frequent vomiting causing acid erosion, mainly on the posterior dental surface.\n\nAs with anorexia nervosa, there is evidence of genetic predispositions contributing to the onset of this eating disorder. Abnormal levels of many hormones, notably serotonin, have been shown to be responsible for some disordered eating behaviors. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is under investigation as a possible mechanism.\n\nThere is evidence that sex hormones may influence appetite and eating in women, and the onset of bulimia nervosa. Studies have shown that women with hyperandrogenism and polycystic ovary syndrome have a dysregulation of appetite, along with carbohydrates and fats. This dysregulation of appetite is also seen in women with bulimia nervosa. In addition, gene knockout studies in mice have shown that mice that have the gene encoding estrogen receptors have decreased fertility due to ovarian dysfunction and dysregulation of androgen receptors. In humans, there is evidence that there is an association between polymorphisms in the ERβ (estrogen receptor β) and bulimia, suggesting there is a correlation between sex hormones and bulimia nervosa.\n\nBulimia has been compared to drug addiction, though the empirical support for this characterization is limited. However, people with bulimia nervosa may share dopamine D2 receptor-related vulnerabilities with those with substance abuse disorders.\n\nDieting, a common behaviour in bulimics, is associated with lower plasma tryptophan levels. Decreased tryptophan levels in the brain, and thus the synthesis of serotonin, increases bulimic urges in currently and formerly bulimic individuals within hours.\n\nAbnormal blood levels of peptides important for the regulation of appetite and energy balance are observed in individuals with bulimia nervosa, but it remains unknown if this is a state or trait.\n\nMedia portrayals of an 'ideal' body shape are widely considered to be a contributing factor to bulimia. In a 1991 study by Weltzin, Hsu, Pollicle, and Kaye, it was stated that 19% of bulimics undereat, 37% of bulimics eat an amount of food that is normal for an average human being, and 44% of bulimics overeat. A survey of 15- to 18-year-old high school girls in Nadroga, Fiji, found the self-reported incidence of purging rose from 0% in 1995 (a few weeks after the introduction of television in the province) to 11.3% in 1998. In addition, the suicide rate among people with bulimia nervosa is 7.5 times higher than in the general population.\n\nWhen attempting to decipher the origin of bulimia nervosa in a cognitive context, Christopher Fairburn \"et al.\"s cognitive behavioral model is often considered the golden standard. Fairburn et al.'s model discusses the process in which an individual falls into the binge-purge cycle and thus develops bulimia. Fairburn \"et al.\" argue that extreme concern with weight and shape coupled with low self-esteem will result in strict, rigid, and inflexible dietary rules. Accordingly, this would lead to unrealistically restricted eating, which may consequently induce an eventual \"slip\" where the individual commits a minor infraction of the strict and inflexible dietary rules. Moreover, the cognitive distortion due to dichotomous thinking leads the individual to binge. The binge subsequently should trigger a perceived loss of control, promoting the individual to purge in hope of counteracting the binge. However, Fairburn \"et al.\" assert the cycle repeats itself, and thus consider the binge-purge cycle to be self-perpetuating.\n\nIn contrast, Byrne and Mclean's findings differed slightly from Fairburn \"et al.\"s cognitive behavioral model of bulimia nervosa in that the drive for thinness was the major cause of purging as a way of controlling weight. In turn, Byrne and Mclean argued that this makes the individual vulnerable to binging, indicating that it is not a binge-purge cycle but rather a purge-binge cycle in that purging comes before bingeing. Similarly, Fairburn \"et al.\"s cognitive behavioral model of bulimia nervosa is not necessarily applicable to every individual and is certainly reductionist. Everyone differs from another, and taking such a complex behavior like bulimia and applying the same one theory to everyone would certainly be invalid. In addition, the cognitive behavioral model of bulimia nervosa is very cultural bound in that it may not be necessarily applicable to cultures outside of the Western society. To evaluate, Fairburn \"et al.\".'s model and more generally the cognitive explanation of bulimia nervosa is more descriptive than explanatory, as it does not necessarily explain how bulimia arises. Furthermore, it is difficult to ascertain cause and effect, because it may be that distorted eating leads to distorted cognition rather than vice versa.\n\nA considerable amount of literature has identified a correlation between sexual abuse and the development of bulimia nervosa. The reported incident rate of unwanted sexual contact is higher among those with bulimia nervosa than anorexia nervosa.\n\nWhen exploring the etiology of bulimia through a socio-cultural perspective, the \"thin ideal internalization\" is significantly responsible. The thin ideal internalization is the extent to which individuals adapt to the societal ideals of attractiveness. Studies have shown that young females that read fashion magazines tend to have more bulimic symptoms than those females who do not. This further demonstrates the impact of media on the likelihood of developing the disorder. Individuals first accept and \"buy into\" the ideals, and then attempt to transform themselves in order to reflect the societal ideals of attractiveness. J. Kevin Thompson and Eric Stice claim that family, peers, and most evidently media reinforce the thin ideal, which may lead to an individual accepting and \"buying into\" the thin ideal. In turn, Thompson and Stice assert that if the thin ideal is accepted, one could begin to feel uncomfortable with their body shape or size since it may not necessarily reflect the thin ideal set out by society. Thus, people feeling uncomfortable with their bodies may result in suffering from body dissatisfaction and may develop a certain drive for thinness. Consequently, body dissatisfaction coupled with a drive for thinness is thought to promote dieting and negative effects, which could eventually lead to bulimic symptoms such as purging or bingeing. Binges lead to self-disgust which causes purging to prevent weight gain.\n\nA study dedicated to investigating the thin ideal internalization as a factor of bulimia nervosa is Thompson's and Stice's research. The aim of their study was to investigate how and to what degree media affects the thin ideal internalization. Thompson and Stice used randomized experiments (more specifically programs) dedicated to teaching young women how to be more critical when it comes to media, in order to reduce thin ideal internalization. The results showed that by creating more awareness of the media's control of the societal ideal of attractiveness, the thin ideal internalization significantly dropped. In other words, less thin ideal images portrayed by the media resulted in less thin ideal internalization. Therefore, Thompson and Stice concluded that media greatly affected the thin ideal internalization. Papies showed that it is not the thin ideal itself, but rather the self-association with other persons of a certain weight that decide how someone with bulimia nervosa feels. People that associate themselves with thin models get in a positive attitude when they see thin models and people that associate with overweight get in a negative attitude when they see thin models. Moreover, it can be taught to associate with thinner people.\n\nThe onset of bulimia nervosa is often during adolescence, between 13 and 20 years of age, and many cases have previously suffered from obesity, with many sufferers relapsing in adulthood into episodic bingeing and purging even after initially successful treatment and remission. A lifetime prevalence of 0.5 percent and 0.9 percent for adult and adolescent sufferers, respectively, is estimated among the United States population. Bulimia nervosa may affect up to 1% of young women and, after 10 years of diagnosis, half will recover fully, a third will recover partially, and 10–20% will still have symptoms.\n\nAdolescents with bulimia nervosa are more likely to have self-imposed perfectionism and compulsivity issues in eating compared to their peers. This means that the high expectations and unrealistic goals that these individuals set for themselves are internally motivated rather than by social views or expectations.\n\nBulimia nervosa can be difficult to detect, compared to anorexia nervosa, because bulimics tend to be of average or slightly above or below average weight. Many bulimics may also engage in significantly disordered eating and exercise patterns without meeting the full diagnostic criteria for bulimia nervosa. Recently, the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" was revised, which resulted in the loosening of criteria regarding the diagnoses of bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa. The diagnostic criteria utilized by the DSM-5 includes repetitive episodes of binge eating (a discrete episode of overeating during which the individual feels out of control of consumption) compensated for by excessive or inappropriate measures taken to avoid gaining weight. The diagnosis also requires the episodes of compensatory behaviors and binge eating to happen a minimum of once a week for a consistent time period of 3 months. The diagnosis is made only when the behavior is not a part of the symptom complex of anorexia nervosa and when the behavior reflects an overemphasis on physical mass or appearance. Purging often is a common characteristic of a more severe case of bulimia nervosa.\n\nThere are two main types of treatment given to those suffering with bulimia nervosa; psychopharmacological and psychosocial treatments.\n\nThere are several supported psychosocial treatments for bulimia. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), which involves teaching a person to challenge automatic thoughts and engage in behavioral experiments (for example, in session eating of \"forbidden foods\") has a small amount of evidence supporting its use.\n\nBy using CBT people record how much food they eat and periods of vomiting with the purpose of identifying and avoiding emotional fluctuations that bring on episodes of bulimia on a regular basis. Barker (2003) states that research has found 40–60% of people using cognitive behaviour therapy to become symptom free. He states in order for the therapy to work, all parties must work together to discuss, record and develop coping strategies. Barker (2003) claims by making people aware of their actions they will think of alternatives. People undergoing CBT who exhibit early behavioral changes are most likely to achieve the best treatment outcomes in the long run. Researchers have also reported some positive outcomes for interpersonal psychotherapy and dialectical behavior therapy.\n\nMaudsley family therapy, developed at the Maudsley Hospital in London for the treatment of anorexia has been shown promising results in bulimia.\n\nThe use of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) has been shown to be quite effective for treating bulimia nervosa (BN) in adults, but little research has been done on effective treatments of BN for adolescents. Although CBT is seen as more cost efficient and helps individuals with BN in self-guided care, Family Based Treatment (FBT) might be more helpful to younger adolescents who need more support and guidance from their families. Adolescents are at the stage where their brains are still quite malleable and developing gradually. Therefore, young adolescents with BN are less likely to realize the detrimental consequences of becoming bulimic and have less motivation to change, which is why FBT would be useful to have families intervene and support the teens. Working with BN patients and their families in FBT can empower the families by having them involved in their adolescent's food choices and behaviors, taking more control of the situation in the beginning and gradually letting the adolescent become more autonomous when they have learned healthier eating habits.\n\nAntidepressants of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) class may have a modest benefit. This includes fluoxetine, which is FDA approved, for the treatment of bulimia, other antidepressants such as sertraline may also be effective against bulimia. Topiramate may also be useful but has greater side effects.\n\nIt is not known if combining medication with counseling improves the outcomes. Any trials which originally suggested that such combinations should improve the outcome have not proven to be exceptionally powerful. Some positive outcomes of treatments can include: abstinence from binge eating, a decrease in obsessive behaviors to lose weight and in shape preoccupation, less severe psychiatric symptoms, a desire to counter the effects of binge eating, as well as an improvement in social functioning and reduced relapse rates.\n\nSome researchers have also claimed positive outcomes in hypnotherapy.\n\nThere is little data on the percentage of people with bulimia in general populations. Most studies conducted thus far have been on convenience samples from hospital patients, high school or university students. These have yielded a wide range of results: between 0.1% and 1.4% of males, and between 0.3% and 9.4% of females. Studies on time trends in the prevalence of bulimia nervosa have also yielded inconsistent results. According to Gelder, Mayou and Geddes (2005) bulimia nervosa is prevalent between 1 and 2 percent of women aged 15–40 years. Bulimia nervosa occurs more frequently in developed countries and in cities, with one study finding that bulimia is five times more prevalent in cities than in rural areas. There is a perception that bulimia is most prevalent amongst girls from middle-class families; however, in a 2009 study girls from families in the lowest income bracket studied were 153 percent more likely to be bulimic than girls from the highest income bracket.\n\nThere are higher rates of eating disorders in groups involved in activities which idealize a slim physique, such as dance, gymnastics, modeling, cheerleading, running, acting, swimming, diving, rowing and figure skating. Bulimia is thought to be more prevalent among Caucasians; however, a more recent study showed that African-American teenage girls were 50 percent more likely than white girls to exhibit bulimic behavior, including both binging and purging.\n\nThe term \"bulimia\" comes from Greek \"boulīmia\", \"ravenous hunger\", a compound of βοῦς \"bous\", \"ox\" and λιμός, \"līmos\", \"hunger\". Literally, the scientific name of the disorder, \"bulimia nervosa\", translates to \"nervous ravenous hunger\".\n\nAlthough diagnostic criteria for bulimia nervosa did not appear until 1979, evidence suggests that binging and purging were popular in certain ancient cultures. The first documented account of behavior resembling bulimia nervosa was recorded in Xenophon's Anabasis around 370 B.C, in which Greek soldiers purged themselves in the mountains of Asia Minor. It is unclear whether this purging was preceded by binging. In ancient Egypt, physicians recommended purging once a month for three days in order to preserve health. This practice stemmed from the belief that human diseases were caused by the food itself. In ancient Rome, elite society members would vomit in order to \"make room\" in their stomachs for more food at all day banquets. Emperors Claudius and Vitellius both were gluttonous and obese, and they often resorted to habitual purging.\n\nHistorical records also suggest that some saints who developed anorexia (as a result of a life of asceticism) may also have displayed bulimic behaviors. Saint Mary Magdalen de Pazzi (1566–1607) and Saint Veronica Giuliani (1660–1727) were both observed binge eating—giving in, as they believed, to the temptations of the devil. Saint Catherine of Siena (1347–1380) is known to have supplemented her strict abstinence from food by purging as reparation for her sins. Catherine died from starvation at age thirty-three.\n\nWhile the psychological disorder \"bulimia nervosa\" is relatively new, the word \"bulimia,\" signifying overeating, has been present for centuries. The Babylon Talmud referenced practices of \"bulimia,\" yet scholars believe that this simply referred to overeating without the purging or the psychological implications bulimia nervosa. In fact, a search for evidence of bulimia nervosa from the 17th to late 19th century revealed that only a quarter of the overeating cases they examined actually vomited after the binges. There was no evidence of deliberate vomiting or an attempt to control weight.\n\nAt the turn of the century, bulimia (overeating) was described as a clinical symptom, but rarely in the context of weight control. Purging, however, was seen in anorexic patients and attributed to gastric pain rather than another method of weight control.\n\nIn 1930, admissions of anorexia nervosa patients to the Mayo Clinic from 1917 to 1929 were compiled. Fifty-five to sixty-five percent of these patients were reported to be voluntarily vomiting in order to relieve weight anxiety. Records show that purging for weight control continued throughout the mid-1900s. Several case studies from this era reveal patients suffering from the modern description of bulimia nervosa. In 1939, Rahman and Richardson reported that out of their six anorexic patients, one had periods of overeating and another practiced self-induced vomiting. Wulff, in 1932, treated \"Patient D,\" who would have periods of intense cravings for food and overeat for weeks, which often resulted in frequent vomiting. Patient D, who grew up with a tyrannical father, was repulsed by her weight and would fast for a few days, rapidly losing weight. Ellen West, a patient described by Ludwig Binswanger in 1958, was teased by friends for being fat and excessively took thyroid pills to lose weight, later using laxatives and vomiting. She reportedly consumed dozens of oranges and several pounds of tomatoes each day, yet would skip meals. After being admitted to a psychiatric facility for depression, Ellen ate ravenously yet lost weight, presumably due to self-induced vomiting. However, while these patients may have met modern criteria for bulimia nervosa, they cannot technically be diagnosed with the disorder, as it had not yet appeared in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders at the time of their treatment.\n\nAn explanation for the increased instances of bulimic symptoms may be due to the 20th century's new ideals of thinness. The shame of being fat emerged in the 1940s, when teasing remarks about weight became more common. The 1950s, however, truly introduced the trend of an aspiration for thinness.\n\nIn 1979, Gerald Russell first published a description of bulimia nervosa, in which he studied patients with a \"morbid fear of becoming fat\" who overate and purged afterwards. He specified treatment options and indicated the seriousness of the disease, which can be accompanied by depression and suicide. In 1980, bulimia nervosa first appeared in the DSM-III.\n\nAfter its appearance in the DSM-III, there was a sudden rise in the documented incidences of bulimia nervosa. In the early 1980s, incidences of the disorder rose to about 40 in every 100,000 people. This decreased to about 27 in every 100,000 people at the end of the 1980s/early 1990s. However, bulimia nervosa's prevalence was still much higher than anorexia nervosa's, which at the time occurred in about 14 people per 100,000.\n\nIn 1991, Kendler et al. documented the cumulative risk for bulimia nervosa for those born before 1950, from 1950 to 1959, and after 1959. The risk for those born after 1959 is much higher than those in either of the other cohorts.\n\n"}
{"id": "10957051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10957051", "title": "Candlelight vigil", "text": "Candlelight vigil\n\nA candlelight vigil or candlelit vigil is an outdoor assembly of people carrying candles, held after sunset in order to show support for a specific cause. Such events are typically held either to protest the suffering of some marginalized group of people, or in memory of the dead. In the latter case, the event is often called a candlelight memorial. A large candlelight vigil will usually have invited speakers with a public address system and may be covered by local or national media. Speakers give their speech at the beginning of the vigil to explain why they are holding a vigil and what it represents. Vigils may also have a religious or spiritual purpose. On Christmas Eve many churches hold a candlelight vigil.\n\nCandlelight vigils are seen as a nonviolent way to raise awareness of a cause and to motivate change, as well as uniting and supporting those attending the vigil.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4459843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4459843", "title": "Chironomia", "text": "Chironomia\n\nChironomia is the art of using gesticulations or hand gestures to good effect in traditional rhetoric or oratory. Effective use of the hands, with or without the use of the voice, is a practice of great antiquity, which was developed and systematized by the Greeks and the Romans. Various gestures had conventionalized meanings which were commonly understood, either within certain class or professional groups, or broadly among dramatic and oratorical audiences.\n\nGilbert Austin was a well-known author on chironomia. The article about him contains a summary of theories in chironomia.\n\n"}
{"id": "54865111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54865111", "title": "Co-construction (linguistics)", "text": "Co-construction (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, a co-construction is a grammatical or semantic entity which has been uttered by more than one speaker. It is a technical term for the notion of one person finishing another person's thought. For example:\n"}
{"id": "2499027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2499027", "title": "Cockroach", "text": "Cockroach\n\nCockroaches are insects of the order Blattodea, which also includes termites. About 30 cockroach species out of 4,600 are associated with human habitats. About four species are well known as pests.\n\nThe cockroaches are an ancient group, dating back at least as far as the Carboniferous period, some 320 million years ago. Those early ancestors however lacked the internal ovipositors of modern roaches. Cockroaches are somewhat generalized insects without special adaptations like the sucking mouthparts of aphids and other true bugs; they have chewing mouthparts and are likely among the most primitive of living neopteran insects. They are common and hardy insects, and can tolerate a wide range of environments from Arctic cold to tropical heat. Tropical cockroaches are often much bigger than temperate species, and, contrary to popular belief, extinct cockroach relatives and 'roachoids' such as the Carboniferous \"Archimylacris\" and the Permian \"Apthoroblattina\" were not as large as the biggest modern species.\n\nSome species, such as the gregarious German cockroach, have an elaborate social structure involving common shelter, social dependence, information transfer and kin recognition. Cockroaches have appeared in human culture since classical antiquity. They are popularly depicted as dirty pests, though the great majority of species are inoffensive and live in a wide range of habitats around the world.\n\nCockroaches are members of the order Blattodea, which includes the termites, a group of insects once thought to be separate from cockroaches. Currently, 4,600 species and over 460 genera are described worldwide. The name \"cockroach\" comes from the Spanish word for cockroach, \"cucaracha\", transformed by 1620s English folk etymology into \"cock\" and \"roach\". The scientific name derives from the Latin \"blatta\", \"an insect that shuns the light\", which in classical Latin was applied not only to cockroaches, but also to mantids.\n\nHistorically, the name Blattaria was used largely interchangeably with the name Blattodea, but whilst the former name was used to refer to 'true' cockroaches exclusively, the latter also includes the termites. The current catalogue of world cockroach species uses the name Blattodea for the group. Another name, Blattoptera, is also sometimes used. The earliest cockroach-like fossils (\"blattopterans\" or \"roachids\") are from the Carboniferous period 320 million years ago, as are fossil roachoid nymphs.\n\nSince the 19th century, scientists believed that cockroaches were an ancient group of insects that had a Devonian origin, according to one hypothesis. Fossil roachoids that lived during that time differ from modern cockroaches in having long external ovipositors and are the ancestors of mantises, as well as modern blattodeans. As the body, hind wings and mouthparts are not preserved in fossils frequently, the relationship of these roachoids and modern cockroaches remains disputed. The first fossils of modern cockroaches with internal ovipositors appeared in the early Cretaceous. A recent phylogenetic analysis suggests that cockroaches originated at least in the Jurassic.\n\nThe evolutionary relationships of the Blattodea (cockroaches and termites) shown in the cladogram are based on Eggleton, Beccaloni & Inward (2007). The cockroach families Lamproblattidae and Tryonicidae are not shown but are placed within the superfamily Blattoidea. The cockroach families Corydiidae and Ectobiidae were previously known as the Polyphagidae and Blattellidae.\n\nTermites were previously regarded as a separate order Isoptera to cockroaches. However, recent genetic evidence strongly suggests that they evolved directly from 'true' cockroaches, and many authors now place them as an \"epifamily\" of Blattodea. This evidence supported a hypothesis suggested in 1934 that termites are closely related to the wood-eating cockroaches (genus \"Cryptocercus\"). This hypothesis was originally based on similarity of the symbiotic gut flagellates in termites regarded as living fossils and wood-eating cockroaches. Additional evidence emerged when F. A. McKittrick (1965) noted similar morphological characteristics between some termites and cockroach nymphs. The similarities among these cockroaches and termites have led some scientists to reclassify termites as a single family, the Termitidae, within the order Blattodea. Other scientists have taken a more conservative approach, proposing to retain the termites as the Termitoidea, an epifamily within the order. Such measure preserves the classification of termites at family level and below.\n\nMost species of cockroach are about the size of a thumbnail, but several species are bigger. The world's heaviest cockroach is the Australian giant burrowing cockroach \"Macropanesthia rhinoceros\", which can reach in length and weigh more than . Comparable in size is the Central American giant cockroach \"Blaberus giganteus\", which grows to a similar length. The longest cockroach species is \"Megaloblatta longipennis\", which can reach in length and across. A Central and South American species, \"Megaloblatta blaberoides\", has the largest wingspan of up to .\n\nCockroaches are generalized insects, with few special adaptations, and may be among the most primitive living neopteran insects. They have a relatively small head and a broad, flattened body, and most species are reddish-brown to dark brown. They have large compound eyes, two ocelli, and long, flexible antennae. The mouthparts are on the underside of the head and include generalized chewing mandibles, salivary glands and various touch and taste receptors.\n\nThe body is divided into a thorax of three segments and a ten-segmented abdomen. The external surface has a tough exoskeleton which contains calcium carbonate and protects the inner organs and provides attachment to muscles. It is coated with wax to repel water. The wings are attached to the second and third thoracic segments. The tegmina, or first pair of wings, are tough and protective, lying as a shield on top of the membranous hind wings, which are used in flight. All four wings have branching longitudinal veins, and multiple cross-veins.\n\nThe three pairs of legs are sturdy, with large coxae and five claws each. They are attached to each of the three thoracic segments. The front legs are the shortest and the hind legs the longest, providing the main propulsive power when the insect runs. The spines on the legs were earlier considered to be sensory, but observations of the insect's gait on sand and wire meshes have demonstrated that they help in locomotion on difficult terrain. The structures have been used as inspiration for robotic legs.\n\nThe abdomen has ten segments, each with a pair of spiracles for respiration. Segment ten bears a pair of cerci, a pair of anal styles, the anus and the external genitalia. Males have an aedeagus through which they secrete sperm during copulation and females have spermathecae for storing sperm and an ovipositor through which the ootheca is laid.\n\nCockroaches are abundant throughout the world and live in a wide range of environments, especially in the tropics and subtropics. Cockroaches can withstand extremely cold temperatures, allowing them to live in the Arctic. Some species are capable of surviving temperatures of −188 °F (−122 °C) by manufacturing an antifreeze made out of glycerol. In North America, 50 species separated into five families are found throughout the continent. 450 species are found in Australia. Only about four widespread species are commonly regarded as pests.\n\nCockroaches occupy a wide range of habitats. Many live in leaf litter, among the stems of matted vegetation, in rotting wood, in holes in stumps, in cavities under bark, under log piles and among debris. Some live in arid regions and have developed mechanisms to survive without access to water sources. Others are aquatic, living near the surface of water bodies, including bromeliad phytotelmata, and diving to forage for food. Most of these respire by piercing the water surface with the tip of the abdomen which acts as a snorkel, but some carry a bubble of air under their thoracic shield when they submerge. Others live in the forest canopy where they may be one of the main types of invertebrate present. Here they may hide during the day in crevices, among dead leaves, in bird and insect nests or among epiphytes, emerging at night to feed.\n\nCockroaches are social insects; a large number of species are either gregarious or inclined to aggregate, and a slightly smaller number exhibit parental care. It used to be thought that cockroaches aggregated because they were reacting to environmental cues, but it is now believed that pheromones are involved in these behaviors. Some species secrete these in their feces with gut microbial symbionts being involved, while others use glands located on their mandibles. Pheromones produced by the cuticle may enable cockroaches to distinguish between different populations of cockroach by odor. The behaviors involved have only been studied in a few species, but German cockroaches leave fecal trails with an odor gradient. Other cockroaches follow such trails to discover sources of food and water, and where other cockroaches are hiding. Thus, cockroaches have emergent behavior, in which group or swarm behavior emerges from a simple set of individual interactions.\n\nDaily rhythms may also be regulated by a complex set of hormonal controls of which only a small subset have been understood. In 2005, the role of one of these proteins, pigment dispersing factor (PDF), was isolated and found to be a key mediator in the circadian rhythms of the cockroach.\n\nPest species adapt readily to a variety of environments, but prefer warm conditions found within buildings. Many tropical species prefer even warmer environments. Cockroaches are mainly nocturnal and run away when exposed to light. An exception to this is the Asian cockroach, which flies mostly at night but is attracted to brightly lit surfaces and pale colors.\n\nGregarious cockroaches display collective decision-making when choosing food sources. When a sufficient number of individuals (a \"quorum\") exploits a food source, this signals to newcomer cockroaches that they should stay there longer rather than leave for elsewhere. Other mathematical models have been developed to explain aggregation dynamics and conspecific recognition.\nCooperation and competition are balanced in cockroach group decision-making behavior.\n\nCockroaches appear to use just two pieces of information to decide where to go, namely how dark it is and how many other cockroaches there are. A study used specially-scented roach-sized robots that appear to the roaches as real to demonstrate that once there are enough insects in a place to form a critical mass, the roaches accepted the collective decision on where to hide, even if this was an unusually light place.\n\nGregarious German cockroaches show different behavior when reared in isolation from when reared in a group. In one study, isolated cockroaches were less likely to leave their shelters and explore, spent less time eating, interacted less with conspecifics when exposed to them, and took longer to recognize receptive females. Because these changes occurred in many contexts, the authors suggested them as constituting a behavioral syndrome. These effects might have been due either to reduced metabolic and developmental rates in isolated individuals or the fact that the isolated individuals hadn't had a training period to learn about what others were like via their antennae.\n\nIndividual American cockroaches appear to have consistently different \"personalities\" regarding how they seek shelter. In addition, group personality is not simply the sum of individual choices, but reflects conformity and collective decision-making.\n\nThe gregarious German and American cockroaches have elaborate social structure, chemical signalling, and \"social herd\" characteristics. Lihoreau and his fellow researchers stated:\n\nSome species make a hissing noise while other cockroaches make a chirping noise. The Madagascar hissing cockroach produces its sound through the modified spiracles on the fourth abdominal segment. Several different hisses are produced, including disturbance sounds, produced by adults and larger nymphs, and aggressive, courtship and copulatory sounds produced by adult males.\n\"Henschoutedenia epilamproides\" has a stridulatory organ between its thorax and abdomen, but the purpose of the sound produced is unclear.\n\nSeveral Australian species practice acoustic and vibration behavior as an aspect of courtship. They have been observed producing hisses and whistles from air forced through the spiracles. Furthermore, in the presence of a potential mate, some cockroaches tap the substrate in a rhythmic, repetitive manner. Acoustic signals may be of greater prevalence amongst perching species, particularly those that live on low vegetation in Australia's tropics.\n\nCockroaches are generally omnivorous; the American cockroach (\"Periplaneta americana\"), for example, feeds on a great variety of foodstuffs including bread, fruit, leather, starch in book bindings, paper, glue, skin flakes, hair, dead insects and soiled clothing. Many species of cockroach harbor symbiotic protozoans and bacteria in their gut which are able to digest cellulose. In many species, these symbionts may be essential if the insect is to utilize cellulose; however, some species secrete cellulase in their saliva, and the wood-eating cockroach, \"Panesthia cribrata\", is able to survive indefinitely on a diet of crystallized cellulose while being free of micro-organisms.\n\nThe similarity of these symbionts in the genus \"Cryptocercus\" to those in termites are such that these cockroaches have been suggested to be more closely related to termites than to other cockroaches, and current research strongly supports this hypothesis about their relationships. All species studied so far carry the obligate mutualistic endosymbiont bacterium \"Blattabacterium\", with the exception of \"Nocticola australiensise\", an Australian cave-dwelling species without eyes, pigment or wings, which recent genetic studies indicate is a very primitive cockroach. It had previously been thought that all five families of cockroach were descended from a common ancestor that was infected with \"B. cuenoti\". It may be that \"N. australiensise\" subsequently lost its symbionts, or alternatively this hypothesis will need to be re-examined.\n\nLike other insects, cockroaches breathe through a system of tubes called tracheae which are attached to openings called spiracles on all body segments. When the carbon dioxide level in the insect rises high enough, valves on the spiracles open and carbon dioxide diffuses out and oxygen diffuses in. The tracheal system branches repeatedly, the finest tracheoles bringing air directly to each cell, allowing gaseous exchange to take place.\n\nWhile cockroaches do not have lungs as do vertebrates, and can continue to respire if their heads are removed, in some very large species, the body musculature may contract rhythmically to forcibly move air in and out of the spiracles; this may be considered a form of breathing.\n\nCockroaches use pheromones to attract mates, and the males practice courtship rituals, such as posturing and stridulation. Like many insects, cockroaches mate facing away from each other with their genitalia in contact, and copulation can be prolonged. A few species are known to be parthenogenetic, reproducing without the need for males.\n\nFemale cockroaches are sometimes seen carrying egg cases on the end of their abdomens; the German cockroach holds about 30 to 40 long, thin eggs in a case called an ootheca. She drops the capsule prior to hatching, though live births do occur in rare instances. The egg capsule may take more than five hours to lay and is initially bright white in color. The eggs are hatched from the combined pressure of the hatchlings gulping air. The hatchlings are initially bright white nymphs and continue inflating themselves with air, becoming harder and darker within about four hours. Their transient white stage while hatching and later while molting has led to claims of albino cockroaches. Development from eggs to adults takes three to four months. Cockroaches live up to a year, and the female may produce up to eight egg cases in a lifetime; in favorable conditions, she can produce 300 to 400 offspring. Other species of cockroaches, however, can produce far more eggs; in some cases a female needs to be impregnated only once to be able to lay eggs for the rest of her life.\n\nThe female usually attaches the egg case to a substrate, inserts it into a suitably protective crevice, or carries it about until just before the eggs hatch. Some species, however, are ovoviviparous, keeping the eggs inside their body, with or without an egg case, until they hatch. At least one genus, \"Diploptera\", is fully viviparous.\n\nCockroaches have incomplete metamorphosis, meaning that the nymphs are generally similar to the adults, except for undeveloped wings and genitalia. Development is generally slow, and may take a few months to over a year. The adults are also long-lived, and have survived for as much as four years in the laboratory.\n\nCockroaches are among the hardiest insects. Some species are capable of remaining active for a month without food and are able to survive on limited resources, such as the glue from the back of postage stamps. Some can go without air for 45 minutes. Japanese cockroach (\"Periplaneta japonica\") nymphs, which hibernate in cold winters, survived twelve hours at −5 °C to −8 °C in laboratory experiments.\n\nExperiments on decapitated specimens of several species of cockroach found a variety of behavioral functionality remained, including shock avoidance and escape behavior, although many insects other than cockroaches are also able to survive decapitation, and popular claims of the longevity of headless cockroaches do not appear to be based on published research. The severed head is able to survive and wave its antennae for several hours, or longer when refrigerated and given nutrients.\n\nIt is popularly suggested that cockroaches will \"inherit the earth\" if humanity destroys itself in a nuclear war. Cockroaches do indeed have a much higher radiation resistance than vertebrates, with the lethal dose perhaps six to 15 times that for humans. However, they are not exceptionally radiation-resistant compared to other insects, such as the fruit fly.\n\nThe cockroach's ability to withstand radiation better than human beings can be explained through the cell cycle. Cells are most vulnerable to the effects of radiation when they are dividing. A cockroach's cells divide only once each time it molts, which is weekly at most in a juvenile roach. Since not all cockroaches would be molting at the same time, many would be unaffected by an acute burst of radiation, although lingering radioactive fallout would still be harmful.\n\nBecause of their ease of rearing and resilience, cockroaches have been used as insect models in the laboratory, particularly in the fields of neurobiology, reproductive physiology and social behavior. The cockroach is a convenient insect to study as it is large and simple to raise in a laboratory environment. This makes it suitable both for research and for school and undergraduate biology studies. It can be used in experiments on topics such as learning, sexual pheromones, spatial orientation, aggression, activity rhythms and the biological clock, and behavioral ecology. Research conducted in 2014 suggests that humans fear cockroaches the most, even more than mosquitoes, due to an evolutionary aversion.\n\nThe Blattodea include some thirty species of cockroaches associated with humans; these species are atypical of the thousands of species in the order. They feed on human and pet food and can leave an offensive odor. They can passively transport pathogenic microbes on their body surfaces, particularly in environments such as hospitals. Cockroaches are linked with allergic reactions in humans. One of the proteins that trigger allergic reactions is tropomyosin. These allergens are also linked with asthma. About 60% of asthma patients in Chicago are also sensitive to cockroach allergens. Studies similar to this have been done globally and all the results are similar. Cockroaches can live for a few days up to a month without food, so just because no cockroaches are visible in a home does not mean they are not there. Approximately 20-48% of homes with no visible sign of cockroaches have detectable cockroach allergens in dust.\n\nCockroaches can burrow into human ears, causing pain and hearing loss. They may be removed with forceps, possibly after first drowning with olive oil.\n\nMany remedies have been tried in the search for control of the major pest species of cockroaches, which are resilient and fast-breeding. Household chemicals like sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) have been suggested, without evidence for their effectiveness. Garden herbs including bay, catnip, mint, cucumber, and garlic have been proposed as repellents. Poisoned bait containing hydramethylnon or fipronil, and boric acid powder is effective on adults. Baits with egg killers are also quite effective at reducing the cockroach population. Alternatively, insecticides containing deltamethrin or pyrethrin are very effective. In Singapore and Malaysia, taxi drivers use pandan leaves to repel cockroaches in their vehicles.\n\nFew parasites and predators are effective for biological control of cockroaches. Parasitoidal wasps such as \"Ampulex\" wasps sting nerve ganglia in the cockroach's thorax, temporarily paralyzing the victim, allowing the wasp to deliver an incapacitating sting into the cockroach's brain. The wasp clips the antennae with its mandibles and drinks some hemolymph before dragging the prey to a burrow, where an egg (rarely two) is laid on it. The wasp larva feeds on the subdued living cockroach. Another wasp which is considered a promising candidate for biological control is the ensign wasp \"Evania appendigaster\" which attacks cockroach oothecae to lay a single egg inside. Ongoing research is still developing technologies allowing for mass-rearing these wasps for application releases. \n\nCockroaches can be trapped in a deep, smooth-walled jar baited with food inside, placed so that cockroaches can reach the opening, for example with a ramp of card or twigs on the outside. An inch or so of water or stale beer (by itself a cockroach attractant) in the jar can be used to drown any insects thus captured. The method works well with the American cockroach, but less so with the German cockroach.\n\nAlthough considered disgusting in Western culture, cockroaches are eaten in many places around the world. Whereas household pest cockroaches may carry bacteria and viruses, cockroaches bred under laboratory conditions can be used to prepare nutritious food. In Mexico and Thailand, the heads and legs are removed, and the remainder may be boiled, sautéed, grilled, dried or diced. In China, cockroaches have become popular as medicine and cockroach farming is rising with over 100 farms. The cockroaches are fried twice in a wok of hot oil, which makes them crispy with soft innards that are like cottage cheese. Fried cockroaches are ground and sold as pills for stomach, heart and liver diseases. A cockroach recipe from Formosa (Taiwan) specifies salting and frying cockroaches after removing the head and entrails.\n\nIn China, cockroaches are raised in large quantities for medicinal purposes.\n\nTwo species of cockroach were used in homeopathic medicine in the 19th century.\n\nWhile a small minority of cockroaches are associated with human habitats and viewed as repugnant by many people, a few species are of conservation concern. The Lord Howe Island wood-feeding cockroach (\"Panesthia lata\") is listed as endangered by the New South Wales Scientific Committee, but the cockroach may be extinct on Lord Howe Island itself. The introduction of rats, the spread of Rhodes grass (\"Chloris gayana\") and fires are possible reasons for their scarcity. Two species are currently listed as endangered and critically endangered by the IUCN Red List, \"Delosia ornata\" and \"Nocticola gerlachi\". Both cockroaches have a restricted distribution and are threatened by habitat loss and rising sea levels. Only 600 \"Delosia ornata\" adults and 300 nymphs are known to exist, and these are threatened by a hotel development. No action has been taken to save the two cockroach species, but protecting their natural habitats may prevent their extinction. In the former Soviet Union, cockroach populations have been declining at an alarming rate; this may be exaggerated, or the phenomenon may be temporary or cyclic. One species of roach, \"Simandoa conserfariam\" is considered extinct in the wild.\n\nCockroaches were known and considered repellent but useful in medicines in Classical times. An insect named in Greek \"σίλφη\" (\"silphe\") has been identified with the cockroach. It is mentioned by Aristotle, saying that it sheds its skin; it is described as foul-smelling in Aristophanes' play \"Peace\"; Euenus called it a pest of book collections, being \"page-eating, destructive, black-bodied\" in his \"Analect\". Virgil named the cockroach \"Lucifuga\" (\"one that avoids light\"). Pliny the Elder recorded the use of \"Blatta\" in various medicines; he describes the insect as disgusting, and as seeking out dark corners to avoid the light. Dioscorides recorded the use of the \"Silphe\", ground up with oil, as a remedy for earache.\n\nLafcadio Hearn (1850–1904) asserted that \"For tetanus cockroach tea is given. I do not know how many cockroaches go to make up the cup; but I find that faith in this remedy is strong among many of the American population of New Orleans. A poultice of boiled cockroaches is placed over the wound.\" He adds that cockroaches are eaten, fried with garlic, for indigestion.\n\nSeveral cockroach species, such as \"Blaptica dubia\", are raised as food for insectivorous pets. A few cockroach species are raised as pets, most commonly the giant Madagascar hissing cockroach, \"Gromphadorhina portentosa\". Whilst the hissing cockroaches may be the most commonly kept species, there are many species that are kept by cockroach enthusiasts; there is even a specialist society: the Blattodea Culture Group (BCG), which was a thriving organisation for about 15 years although now appears to be dormant. The BCG provided a source of literature for people interested in rearing cockroaches which was otherwise limited to either scientific papers, or general insect books, or books covering a variety of exotic pets; in the absence of an inclusive book one member published \"Introduction to Rearing Cockroaches\" which still appears to be the only book dedicated to rearing cockroaches.\n\nCockroaches have been used for space tests. A cockroach given the name Nadezhda was sent into space by Russian scientists as part of a Foton-M mission, during which she mated, and later became the first terrestrial animal to produce offspring that had been conceived in space.\n\nBecause of their long association with humans, cockroaches are frequently referred to in popular culture. In Western culture, cockroaches are often depicted as dirty pests. In a 1750–1752 journal, Peter Osbeck noted that cockroaches were frequently seen and found their way to the bakeries, after the sailing ship \"Gothenburg\" ran aground and was destroyed by rocks.\n\nDonald Harington's satirical novel \"The Cockroaches of Stay More\" (Harcourt, 1989) imagines a community of \"roosterroaches\" in a mythical Ozark town where the insects are named after their human counterparts. Madonna has famously quoted, \"I am a survivor. I am like a cockroach, you just can't get rid of me.\" An urban legend maintains that cockroaches are immortal.\n\n"}
{"id": "16276017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16276017", "title": "Densen Uta", "text": "Densen Uta\n\nAnzu Natsuno (Yuko Oshima), a student at an all-girl high school, is walking in the hallway when she hears a mysterious melody coming from the auditorium. There, she finds her classmate Kana (Atsuko Maeda) singing and Anzu's soon shocked when she sees Kana committing suicide after the song ends.\n\nA few days later, Anzu is approached by magazine columnist Riku Nagase (Ryuhei Matsuda), who explains that he's investigating an urban legend of \"Densen Uta\", or the \"infectious song\", that turns whomever sings the song suicidal. Riku convinces Anzu and her friends to sing the song to see if there's any truth to the urban legend. They reluctantly agree and sing the song.\n\nOver next few days the girls, one by one, kill themselves, leaving Anzu to fight for her life. Coming closer to the source of the song, Anzu finds out about an unimaginable secret relating to her past and the song.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45087691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45087691", "title": "Egyptian units of measurement", "text": "Egyptian units of measurement\n\nA number of units of measurement were used in Egypt to measure length, mass, area, capacity, etc. In Egypt, the metric system was made optional in 1873 and has been compulsory in government use since 1891.\n\nA number of units were used in Egypt. Units and their interrelations were very variable in the national system. Since 1891 their metric equivalences have been defined.\n\nA number of units were used to measure length. One dirra baladi was equal to 0.58 m and one kassabah was equal to 3.55 m, according to the metric equivalences defined in 1891. Some other units according to the metric equivalences defined in 1891 are given below:\n\n1 kirat = 1/24 dirra\n\n1 abdat = 1/6 dirra\n\n1 kadam = 1/2 dirra\n\n1 pic = 1 dirra\n\n1 gasab = 4 dirra\n\n1 mil hachmi = 1000 dirra\n\n1 farsakh = 3000 dirra\n\nThere were six kinds of derah (a.k.a. dirra) as follows:\n1 Nile pic = 0.2545 m,\n1 native pic (derah baladi) = 0.5682 m,\n1 Constantinople pic (derah Istambuli) = 0.6691 m,\n1 cloth pic (derah hendazeh) = 0.6479 m,\n1 builder's pic (derah meimari) = 0.7500 m,\n1 itinerary pic (aka. road-measure pic) = 0.7389 m.\n\nOne itenery derah was equal to 0.7389 m. Some other units according to the metric equivalences defined in 1891 are given below:\n\n1 cassaba = 5 derah\n\n1 bââh = 5/2 derah\n\n1 mili = 500 cassabas = 1.148 mile (1.847 km)\n\n1 farsakh (league) = 3 mili\n1 baride = 4 farsakh\n\n1 safar yome (of which 2 1/2 make 1° of the meridian = 60 mili) = 2 baride.\n\nA number of units were used to measure mass. One oke was equal to 1.248 kg, according to the metric equivalences defined in 1891. Some other units according to the metric equivalences defined in 1891 are given below:\n\n1 kirat = 1/6400 oke\n\n1 dirhem = 1/400 oke\n\n1 miskal = 8/800 oke\n\n1 okieh = 0.03 oke\n\n1 rotoli = 0.36 oke\n\n1 kantar = 36 oke\n\n1 helm = 200 oke\n\nOne harsela, used for weighing silk, is one oke.\n\nA number of units were used to measure area. One feddan was equal to 4200.8 m, according to the metric equivalences defined in 1891. Some other units according to the metric equivalences defined in 1891 are given below:\n\n1 sahme = 1/576 feddan\n\n1 kirat kamel = 1/24 feddan\n\n1 feddan masri = 1 feddan.\n\nSquares of derah and cassaba (3.55 m) was used to partly measure lands.\n\nTwo main systems, liquid and dry were used in Egypt.\n\nOne guirbeh was equal to 70.4467 quarts (66 2/3 litres).\n\nA number of units were used to measure capacity. One keddah was equal to 2.0625 l, according to the metric equivalences defined in 1891. Some other units according to the metric equivalences defined in 1891 are given below:\n\n1 kirat = 1/32 keddah\n\n1 khanoubah = 1/16 keddah\n\n1 toumnah = 1/8 keddah\n\n1 robhah = 1/4 keddah\n\n1 nisf keddah = 1/2 keddah\n\n1 malouah = 2 keddah\n\n1 rob (aka. roubouh) = 4 keddah\n\n1 keila = 8 keddah\n1 ardeb = 96 keddah\n\n1 daribah = 768 keddah\n\nBefore 1891, according to the report of the United States Commissioners to the Paris Exposition of 1867, 1 ardeb was equal to 2603 bushels (91.72 l). Other authorities give the ardeb = 5.1648 bushels. One ardeb of Alexandria was equal to 7.6907 bushels.\n"}
{"id": "28486049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28486049", "title": "En homme", "text": "En homme\n\nThe term en homme is an anglicized adaptation of a French phrase. It is used in the transgender and crossdressing community to describe the act of wearing masculine clothing or expressing a stereotypically masculine personality. The term is derived from the modern colloquial French phrase \"en tant qu'homme\" meaning \"as a man\" and the anglicized adaptation \"en homme\" literally translates as \"in man\". Most crossdressers also use a \"homme\" (male) name whilst \"en homme\".\n\n"}
{"id": "418762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418762", "title": "Flag of Bolivia", "text": "Flag of Bolivia\n\nThe national flag of Bolivia was originally adopted in 1851. The state flag and ensign (and war flag) is a horizontal tricolor of red, yellow and green with the Bolivian coat of arms in the center. According to one source, the red stands for Bolivia's brave soldiers, while the green symbolizes fertility and yellow the nation's mineral deposits.\n\nSince 2009 the Wiphala also holds the status of \"dual flag\" in the country.\n\nAccording to the revised Constitution of Bolivia of 2009, the Wiphala is considered a national symbol of Bolivia (along with the flag, national anthem, coat of arms, the cockade; kantuta flower and patujú flower).\n\nDespite its landlocked status, Bolivia has a naval ensign used by navy vessels on rivers and lakes. It consists of a blue field with the state flag in the canton bordered by nine small yellow five-pointed stars, with a larger yellow five-pointed star in the fly. The nine small stars represent the nine departments of Bolivia, and the larger star the nation's right to access the sea (access that it lost in 1884 in the War of the Pacific).\n\nThe national flag of Bolivia is described as a tricolor rectangle, with the colors red, yellow and green, in a ratio of 1:1:1, meaning three horizontal bands, with the red on the superior part occupying a third of the flag's width, yellow in the middle band using the same width, and green in the inferior part, using the last third.\n\nThe dimensions of the flag had not been defined since its adoption in 1851. Supreme Decree No. 27630 of 2004 finally established that the size of the national flag be of 7.5 squares width by 11 squares long, a square can be any size, but always using the ratio 15:22.\n\nThe first description of Bolivia's national flag, together with the significance of these, were first established by the Supreme Decree of 1888 during the government of President Gregorio Pacheco, which specifies that:\n\nThe exact colors of the Bolivian flag have been established by the Supreme Decree of 2004:\n\nThe colours of the tricolor can also be found in the Bolivian Wiphala. The Wiphala has been included into the national colours of the Bolivian Air Force such as on the executive Dassault Falcon 900EX. The Wiphala is also officially flown on governmental buildings such as the Palacio Quemado and parliament alongside the tricolor since the introduction of the revised 2009 constitution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7424498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7424498", "title": "Ghost Machine (Torchwood)", "text": "Ghost Machine (Torchwood)\n\n\"Ghost Machine\" is the third episode of the first series of the British science fiction television series \"Torchwood\", which was broadcast on the digital television channel BBC Three on 29 October 2006.\n\nSet in Cardiff, the episode involves a group of alien hunters called Torchwood discovering an alien machine that shows visions of strong emotional events from the past and future.\n\nJack, Owen and Gwen pursue a man through the Cardiff streets, while Toshiko tracks his alien energy signature through the CCTV network. Gwen separates from the group, chasing down the suspect into a train station, and is able to grab the man's jacket but he gets out of it and runs away. Gwen discovers an alien device in the jacket pocket, and when she activates it, she finds herself seeing a brief vision of the past, of a lost boy wandering the train station. Gwen remembers a name tag worn by the boy, and the team is able to track the name down to an old man in Cardiff who admits that during the World War II evacuation, he was sent to Cardiff. The group determines from further analysis that the nanotechnology of the \"ghost device\" allows people to see moments of the past spurred by strong human emotions, and try to learn how their suspect came upon such technology.\n\nThey determine the suspect is Sean \"Bernie\" Harris, a petty thief from Splott, and travel there to find him. Unsuccessful, they return to the train station to try the device again when Owen activates it while under a bridge, where he witnesses the rape and murder of a young woman in the 1960s by a man named Ed Morgan. Returning to the Hub, the team investigates the crime to confirm what Owen saw, and find that although Ed was interrogated, he was never accused of the crime. Owen insists on trying to bring Ed to justice despite the fact that the case has been long since closed and starts to track Ed on his own. Owen confronts the elderly Ed but gets no information out of him; however, upon leaving his house, he spots Bernie and gives chase, catching up with him. Owen takes Bernie to a pub to learn more about the device while the rest of Torchwood is en route. Bernie explains he found the device in a tin of random objects from an old lady, and that he too saw the murder of Lizzie, and wonders if the team wants the \"other half\". Torchwood follows Bernie back to Bernie's home to retrieve the other half as well as the other objects in the tin, all alien objects that fell out from the Rift. Bernie explains that he only used the other half once, as it showed him bleeding to death outside his home at his current age. As they leave, Gwen accidentally triggers the second half, and has a vision of herself holding a bloody knife, calling out in vain to Owen. Jack tries calms Gwen down, claiming it just may be a possible future.\n\nThe team realises that Ed is paranoid and depressed, and that he is being blackmailed by Bernie; Jack becomes concerned that Owen may have triggered Ed to take action. Learning that Ed has left his home and is heading towards Bernie's, Jack, Gwen, and Owen arrive just in time to disarm Ed from stabbing Bernie with a knife. Owen takes the knife. Determined not to let Morgan get away with his crime, he decides to avenge Lizzie's death. He is stopped by Gwen, who takes his knife. Ed runs and impales himself on his own knife. Gwen sees that this is the future she saw, and Jack and Owen attempt cardiopulmonary resuscitation, but fail to revive him. He dies, and Gwen expresses regret even though they all know she merely held the knife; Ed killed himself. Jack puts the device in the secure archives.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4175709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4175709", "title": "History of science in the Renaissance", "text": "History of science in the Renaissance\n\nDuring the Renaissance, great advances occurred in geography, astronomy, chemistry, physics, mathematics, manufacturing, anatomy and engineering. The rediscovery of ancient scientific texts was accelerated after the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, and the invention of printing democratized learning and allowed a faster propagation of new ideas. But, at least in its initial period, some see the Renaissance as one of scientific backwardness. Historians like George Sarton and Lynn Thorndike have criticized how the Renaissance affected science, arguing that progress was slowed for some amount of time. Humanists favored human-centered subjects like politics and history over study of natural philosophy or applied mathematics. Others have focused on the positive influence of the Renaissance, pointing to factors like the rediscovery of lost or obscure texts and the increased emphasis on the study of language and the correct reading of texts.\n\nMarie Boas Hall coined the term Scientific Renaissance to designate the early phase of the Scientific Revolution, 1450–1630. More recently, Peter Dear has argued for a two-phase model of early modern science: a \"Scientific Renaissance\" of the 15th and 16th centuries, focused on the restoration of the natural knowledge of the ancients; and a \"Scientific Revolution\" of the 17th century, when scientists shifted from recovery to innovation.\n\nDuring and after the Renaissance of the 12th century, Europe experienced an intellectual revitalization, especially with regard to the investigation of the natural world. In the 14th century, however, a series of events that would come to be known as the Crisis of the Late Middle Ages was underway. When the Black Death came, it wiped out so many lives it affected the entire system. It brought a sudden end to the previous period of massive scientific change. The plague killed 25–50% of the people in Europe, especially in the crowded conditions of the towns, where the heart of innovations lay. Recurrences of the plague and other disasters caused a continuing decline of population for a century.\n\nThe 14th century saw the beginning of the cultural movement of the Renaissance. The rediscovery of ancient texts was accelerated after the Fall of Constantinople, in 1453, when many Byzantine scholars had to seek refuge in the West, particularly Italy. Also, the invention of printing was to have great effect on European society: the facilitated dissemination of the printed word democratized learning and allowed a faster propagation of new ideas.\n\nBut this initial period is usually seen as one of scientific backwardness. There were no new developments in physics or astronomy, and the reverence for classical sources further enshrined the Aristotelian and Ptolemaic views of the universe. Philosophy lost much of its rigour as the rules of logic and deduction were seen as secondary to intuition and emotion. At the same time, Humanism stressed that nature came to be viewed as an animate spiritual creation that was not governed by laws or mathematics. Science would only be revived later, with such figures as Copernicus, Gerolamo Cardano, Francis Bacon, and Descartes.\nAlchemy is the study of the transmutation of materials through obscure processes. It is sometimes described as an early form of chemistry. One of the main aims of alchemists was to find a method of creating gold from other substances. A common belief of alchemists was that there is an essential substance from which all other substances formed, and that if you could reduce a substance to this original material, you could then construct it into another substance, like lead to gold. Medieval alchemists worked with two main elements or \"principles\", sulphur and mercury.\n\nParacelsus was an alchemist and physician of the Renaissance. The Paracelsians added a third principle, salt, to make a trinity of alchemical elements.\n\nThe astronomy of the late Middle Ages was based on the geocentric model described by Claudius Ptolemy in antiquity. Probably very few practicing astronomers or astrologers actually read Ptolemy's \"Almagest\", which had been translated into Latin by Gerard of Cremona in the 12th century. Instead they relied on introductions to the Ptolemaic system such as the \"De sphaera mundi\" of Johannes de Sacrobosco and the genre of textbooks known as \"Theorica planetarum\". For the task of predicting planetary motions they turned to the Alfonsine Tables, a set of astronomical tables based on the \"Almagest\" models but incorporating some later modifications, mainly the trepidation model attributed to Thabit ibn Qurra. Contrary to popular belief, astronomers of the Middle Ages and Renaissance did not resort to \"epicycles on epicycles\" in order to correct the original Ptolemaic models—until one comes to Copernicus himself.\n\nSometime around 1450, mathematician Georg Purbach (1423–1461) began a series of lectures on astronomy at the University of Vienna. Regiomontanus (1436–1476), who was then one of his students, collected his notes on the lecture and later published them as \"Theoricae novae planetarum\" in the 1470s. This \"New \"Theorica\"\" replaced the older \"theorica\" as the textbook of advanced astronomy. Purbach also began to prepare a summary and commentary on the \"Almagest\". He died after completing only six books, however, and Regiomontanus continued the task, consulting a Greek manuscript brought from Constantinople by Cardinal Bessarion. When it was published in 1496, the \"Epitome of the Almagest\" made the highest levels of Ptolemaic astronomy widely accessible to many European astronomers for the first time.\n\nThe last major event in Renaissance astronomy is the work of Nicolaus Copernicus (1473–1543). He was among the first generation of astronomers to be trained with the \"Theoricae novae\" and the \"Epitome\". Shortly before 1514 he began to revive Aristarchus's idea that the Earth revolves around the Sun. He spent the rest of his life attempting a mathematical proof of heliocentrism. When \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" was finally published in 1543, Copernicus was on his deathbed. A comparison of his work with the \"Almagest\" shows that Copernicus was in many ways a Renaissance scientist rather than a revolutionary, because he followed Ptolemy's methods and even his order of presentation. In astronomy, the Renaissance of science can be said to have ended with the works of Johannes Kepler (1571–1630) and Galileo Galilei (1564–1642).\n\nWith the Renaissance came an increase in experimental investigation, principally in the field of dissection and body examination, thus advancing our knowledge of human anatomy. The development of modern neurology began in the 16th century with Vesalius, who described the anatomy of the brain and other organs; he had little knowledge of the brain's function, thinking that it resided mainly in the ventricles. Understanding of medical sciences and diagnosis improved, but with little direct benefit to health care. Few effective drugs existed, beyond opium and quinine. William Harvey provided a refined and complete description of the circulatory system. The most useful tomes in medicine, used both by students and expert physicians, were \"materiae medicae\" and \"pharmacopoeiae\".\n\nIn the history of geography, the key classical text was the \"Geographia\" of Claudius Ptolemy (2nd century). It was translated into Latin in the 15th century by Jacopo d'Angelo. It was widely read in manuscript and went through many print editions after it was first printed in 1475. Regiomontanus worked on preparing an edition for print prior to his death; his manuscripts were consulted by later mathematicians in Nuremberg.\n\nThe information provided by Ptolemy, as well as Pliny the Elder and other classical sources, was soon seen to be in contradiction to the lands explored in the Age of Discovery. The new discoveries revealed shortcomings in classical knowledge; they also opened European imagination to new possibilities. Thomas More's \"Utopia\" was inspired partly by the discovery of the New World.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "472768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=472768", "title": "Honeypot (tourism)", "text": "Honeypot (tourism)\n\nA honeypot site is a location attracting a large number of tourists who, due to their numbers, place pressure on the environment and local people.\n\nHoneypots are very often used by cities or countries to manage their tourism industry. The use of honeypots can protect fragile land away from major cities while satisfying tourists. One such example is the construction of local parks to prevent tourists from damaging more valuable ecosystems farther from their main destination. Honeypots have the added benefit of concentrating a large number of income-generating visitors in one place, thus developing that area, and in turn making the area more appealing to tourists. \n\nHowever, honeypots can suffer from problems of overcrowding, including litter, vandalism, and strain on facilities and transport networks. Honeypots attract tourists because of parking spaces, shopping centres, parks and public toilets. The tourist shops are normally placed all over the shopping centre, which creates pressure on the whole centre to keep the place looking tidy. For example, Stratford-upon-Avon has shops that are aimed mostly at tourists. On a particular street, there were 5 shops that were aimed towards the locals and 10 shops catering to tourists, reflecting the business opportunity that tourism presents for shopkeepers and other business people in the local economy.\n"}
{"id": "76400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76400", "title": "Hutterites", "text": "Hutterites\n\nHutterites (), also called Hutterian Brethren (German: \"Hutterische Brüder\"), are an ethnoreligious group that is a communal branch of Anabaptists who, like the Amish and Mennonites, trace their roots to the Radical Reformation of the early 16th century.\n\nThe founder of the Hutterites, Jakob Hutter, \"established the Hutterite colonies on the basis of the Schleitheim Confession, a classic Anabaptist statement of faith\" of 1527, with the first communes being formed in 1528. Since the death of their eponym Jakob Hutter in 1536, the beliefs of the Hutterites, especially living in a community of goods and nonresistance, have resulted in hundreds of years of diaspora in many countries. They embarked on a series of migrations through central and eastern Europe. Nearly extinct by the 18th century, the Hutterites migrated to Russia in 1770 and about a hundred years later to North America. Over the course of 140 years, their population living in community of goods recovered from about 400 to around 45,000. Today, almost all Hutterites live in Western Canada and the upper Great Plains of the United States.\n\nThe Anabaptist movement, from which the Hutterites emerged, started in circles around Huldrych Zwingli (1484 – 1531) who led the early Reformation in Switzerland. In Zurich on January 21, 1525, Conrad Grebel (c. 1498–1526) and Jörg Blarock (c. 1491–1529) practiced adult baptism to each other and then to others. From Switzerland Anabaptism quickly spread to the North and the East, in the timespan of only one year. Balthasar Hubmaier (c. 1480–1528), a Bavarian from Friedberg, became an Anabaptist in Zurich in 1525 but fled to Nikolsburg in Moravia in May 1526. Other early Anabaptists who became important for the emerging Hutterites were Hans Denck (c. 1500–1527), Hans Hut (1490–1527), Hans Schlaffer († 1528), Leonhard Schiemer (c. 1500–1528), Ambrosius Spittelmayr (1497–1528) and Jakob Widemann († 1536). Most of these early Anabapitists soon became martyrs of their faith.\n\nAnabaptism appears to have come to Tyrol through the labors of Jörg Blaurock. Similar to the German Peasants' War, the Gasmair uprising set the stage by producing a hope for social justice. Michael Gasmair had tried to bring religious, political, and economical reform through a violent peasant uprising, but the movement was squashed. Although little hard evidence exists of a direct connection between Gasmair's uprising and Tyrolian Anabaptism, at least a few of the peasants involved in the uprising later became Anabaptists. While a connection between a violent social revolution and non-resistant Anabaptism may be hard to imagine, the common link was the desire for a radical change in the prevailing social injustices. Disappointed with the failure of armed revolt, Anabaptist ideals of an alternative peaceful, just society probably resonated on the ears of the disappointed peasants.\n\nBefore Anabaptism proper was introduced to South Tyrol, Protestant ideas had been propagated in the region by men such as Hans Vischer, a former Dominican. Some of those who participated in conventicles where Protestant ideas were presented later became Anabaptists. As well, the population in general seemed to have a favorable attitude towards reform, be it Protestant or Anabaptist. George Blaurock appears to have preached itinerantly in the Puster Valley region in 1527, which most likely was the first introduction of Anabaptist ideas in the area. Another visit through the area in 1529 reinforced these ideas, but he was captured and burned at the stake in Klausen on September 6, 1529.\n\nJacob Hutter was one of the early converts in South Tyrol, and later became a leader among the Hutterites, who received their name from him. Hutter made several trips between Moravia and Tyrol, and most of the Anabaptists in South Tyrol ended up emigrating to Moravia because of the fierce persecution unleashed by Ferdinand I. In November 1535, Hutter was captured near Klausen and taken to Innsbruck where he was burned at the stake on February 25, 1536. By 1540 Anabaptism in South Tyrol was beginning to die out, largely because of the emigration to Moravia of the converts because of incessant persecution.\n\nIn the 16th century, there was a considerable degree of religious tolerance in Moravia because in the 15th century there had been several proto-Protestant movements and upheavals (Czech Brethren, Utraquists, Picards, Minor Unity) in Bohemia and Moravia due to the teachings of Jan Hus (c. 1369–1415).\n\nTherefore, Moravia, where Hubmaier had also found refuge, was the land where the persecuted Anabaptist forerunners of the Hutterites fled to, originating mostly from different locations in what is today Southern Germany, Austria and South Tyrol. Under the leadership of Jakob Hutter in the years 1530 to 1535, they developed the communal form of living which distinguishes them from other Anabaptists such as the Mennonites and the Amish. Hutterite communal living is based on the New Testament books of the Acts of the Apostles (Chapters 2 (especially Verse 44), 4, and 5) and 2 Corinthians.\n\nA basic tenet of Hutterite groups has always been nonresistance, forbidding its members from taking part in military activities, taking orders from military persons, wearing a formal uniform (such as a soldier's or a police officer's) or paying taxes to be spent on war. This has led to expulsion or persecution in the several lands in which they have lived.\n\nIn Moravia, the Hutterites flourished for several decades; the period between 1554 and 1565 was called \"good\" and the period between 1565 and 1592 was called \"golden\". During that time the Hutterites expanded to Slovakia, then part of the Kingdom of Hungary and called \"Upper Hungary\". In the time until 1622 some 100 settlements, called \"Bruderhof\", developed in Moravia and Slovakia and the number of Hutterites reached twenty to thirty thousand.\n\nIn 1593 the Long Turkish War, that affected the Hutterites severely, broke out and lasted until 1606. During this war, in 1605, some 240 Hutterites were abducted by the Ottoman Turkish army and their Tatar allies and sold into Ottoman slavery. Before the Hutterites could rebuild their resources the Thirty Years' War (1618–1648) broke out and soon developed into a war about religion, when in 1620 the mostly Protestant Bohemia and Moravia were invaded by the Habsburg Emperor Ferdinand II, a Catholic, who annihilated and plundered several Hutterite settlements. In 1621 the Bubonic plague followed the war and killed one third of the remaining Hutterites.\n\nRenewed persecution followed the Habsburg takeover of the Czech lands in 1620 and in the end annihilated them there as an Anabapist group. In 1622 the Hutterites were expelled from Moravia and fled to the Hutterite settlements in Slovakia, which became totally overcrowded, causing severe hardship. Some Moravian Hutterites converted to Catholicism and retained a separate ethnic identity as the \"Habans\" (German: \"Habaner\") until the 19th century (by the end of World War II, the Haban group had become essentially extinct).\n\nIn 1621 Gabriel Bethlen, prince of Transylvania and a Calvinist, 'invited' Hutterites to come to his country. In fact he forced a group of 186 Hutterites to come to Alwinz in 1622, because he needed craftsmen and agricultural workers to develop his land. In the next two years more Hutterites migrated to Transylvania, in total 690 or 1,089 persons, depending on the sources.\n\nIn the second half of the 17th century the Hutterite community was in decline. It had suffered from Ottoman incursions during which the \"Bruderhof\" at Alvinz was burnt down in 1661. Towards the end of the century, community of goods was abandoned, when exactly is not known. Johannes Waldner assumes in \"Das Klein-Geschichtsbuch der Hutterischen Brüder\" that this happened in 1693 or 1694.\n\nIn 1756, a group of Crypto-Protestants from Carinthia who in 1755 were deported to Transylvania by the Habsburg Monarchy, met the Hutterian Brethren at Alvinz. These Carinthian Protestants read the \"account of the belief of the Hutterian Brethren\" written by Peter Riedemann, which was given to them by the Brothers and then decided to join the Hutterites. This latter group revived the Hutterite religion, became dominant among the Hutterites and replaced the Tyrolean dialect of the old Hutterites by their Carinthian one, both being Southern Bavarian dialects. In 1762 community of goods was reestablished in Alvinz.\n\nIn 1767 the Hutterites fled from Transylvania first to \"Kräbach\", that is Ciorogârla in Wallachia, which was at that time some 7 km from Bucharest. When the Hutterites left Transylvania, their number was down to 67 people.\n\nIn Wallachia they encountered much hardship because of lawlessness and the war between Russia and Turkey (1768–1774). The Russians took Bucharest on 17 November 1769. The Hutterites then sought the advice of Russian army commander \"Sämetin\" (Генерал-майор Александр Гаврилович Замятин) in Bucharest who proposed that they emigrate to Russia where Count Pyotr Rumyantsev would provide them with land all they need for a new beginning.\n\nOn 1 August 1770, after more than three month of travelling, the group of about 60 persons reached their new home, the lands of Count Rumyantsev at Vishenka in Ukraine, which at this time was part of the Russian Empire. In their new home the Hutterites where joined by a few more Hutterites who could flee from Habsburg lands and a few Mennonites, altogether 55 persons.\n\nWhen Count Pyotr Rumyantsev died in 1796 his two sons tried to reduce the status of the Hutteites from free peasants (\"Freibauern\") to that of serfs (\"Leibeigene\"). The Hutterites appealed to Tsar Paul I and where allowed to settle on crown land in Radichev, some 12 km far from Vishenka, where they would have the same privileged status as the German Mennonite colonists from Prussia.\n\nAround the year 1820 there was a lot of inner tension and a large faction of the brothers wanted to end the community of goods. The community then divided into two groups and lived in separate communities. The faction with individual ownership moved to the Mennonite colony Chortitza for some time, but soon returned. After a fire destroyed most of the buildings at Radichev, the Hutterites gave up their community of goods.\n\nBecause the lands of the Hutterites at Radichev were not very productive, they petitioned to move to better lands and in 1842 they were allowed to relocate to Molotschna, a Mennonite colony, where they founded the village Hutterthal. When they moved, the total Hutterite population was 384 with 185 males and 199 females.\n\nIn 1852 a second village was founded, called Johannesruh, and by 1868, three more villages were founded; Hutterdorf (1856), Neu-Huttertal (1856), and Scheromet (1868). In Ukraine, the Hutterites enjoyed relative prosperity. When they lived among German-speaking Mennonites in Molotschna, they adopted the very efficient form of Mennonite agriculture which Johann Cornies had introduced.\n\nIn 1845, a small group of Hutterites made plans to renew the community of goods, but was told to wait until the government approved their plans to buy separate land. A group led by the preacher George Waldner made another attempt but this attempt failed soon. In 1859. Michael Waldner was able to reinstate community of goods at one end of Hutterdorf, thus becoming the founder of the Schmiedeleut.\n\nIn 1860, Darius Walter founded another group with community of goods at the other end of Hutterdorf, thus creating the Dariusleut. Trials to establish a communal living in Johannisruh after 1864 did not succeed. It took until in 1877, when the Hutterites had already relocated to South Dakota, that a few families from Johannisruh, led by preacher Jacob Wipf, established a third group with communal living, the Lehrerleut.\n\nIn 1864, the Primary Schools Bill made Russian the language of instruction in schools and in 1871 a law introduced compulsory military service which led the Mennonites and Hutterites to make plans for emigration.\n\nAfter sending scouts to North America in 1873 along with a Mennonite delegation, almost all Hutterites, totaling 1,265 individuals, migrated to the United States between 1874 and 1879 in response to the new Russian military service law. Of these, some 800 identified as \"Eigentümler\" (literally, 'owners') and acquired individual farms according to the Homestead Act of 1862, whereas some 400 identified as \"Gemeinschaftler\" (literally, 'community people') and started three communities with community of goods.\n\nMost Hutterites are descended from these latter 400. Named for the leader of each group (the Schmiedeleut, Dariusleut and Lehrerleut, \"leut\" being based on the German word for \"people\"), they settled initially in the Dakota Territory. Here, each group reestablished the traditional Hutterite communal lifestyle.\n\nOver the next decades, the Hutterites who settled on individual farms, called Prärieleut, slowly assimilated first into Mennonite groups and later into the general American population. Until about 1910 there was intermarriage between the Prärieleut and the communal living Hutterites.\n\nSeveral state laws were enacted seeking to deny Hutterites religious legal status to their communal farms (colonies). Some colonies were disbanded before these decisions were overturned in the Supreme Court. By this time, many Hutterites had already established new colonies in Alberta and Saskatchewan.\nDuring World War I, the pacifist Hutterites suffered persecution in the United States. In the most severe case, four Hutterite men subjected to military draft who refused to comply were imprisoned and physically abused. Ultimately, two of the four men, the brothers Joseph and Michael Hofer, died at Leavenworth Military Prison from mistreatment, after the Armistice had been signed ending the war.\n\nThe Hutterites responded to this mistreatment of their conscientious objectors by leaving the United States and moving to the Canadian provinces of Alberta, Manitoba and Saskatchewan. All 18 existing American colonies were abandoned, except the oldest one, Bon Homme, where Hutterites continued to live. Other colonies moved to Canada but did not sell their vacant colonies.\n\nIn 1942, alarmed at the influx of Dakota Hutterites buying copious tracts of land, the province of Alberta passed the \"Communal Properties Act\", severely restricting the expansion of the Dariusleut and Lehrerleut colonies. The act was repealed in 1973, allowing Hutterites to purchase land. This act resulted in the establishment of a number of new colonies in British Columbia and Saskatchewan.\n\nDuring the Great Depression when there was a lot of economic pressure on farming populations, some Schmiedeleut moved back to South Dakota, resettling abandoned property and buying abandoned colonies from the Darius- and the Lehrerleut. After World War II also the Darius- and the Lehrerleut went back to the US, mainly to Montana.\n\nContrary to other traditional Anabaptist groups like the Amish, the Old Order Mennonites and the Old Colony Mennonites, who have almost no written books about Anabaptist theology, the Hutterites possess an account of their belief by Peter Riedemann (\"Rechenschafft unserer Religion, Leer und Glaubens\") and theological tracts and letters by Hans Schlaffer, Leonhard Schiemer and Ambrosius Spittelmaier are extant.\n\nThe founder of the Hutterite tradition, Jakob Hutter, \"established the Hutterite colonies on the basis of the Schleitheim Confession, a classic Anabaptist statement of faith\". In accordance with this confession of faith, Hutterite theology emphasizes credobaptism, a belief in the Church invisible, Christian pacifism, and the rejection of oaths. The Hutterite Churches also believe in \"a set of community rules for Christian living and the principle of worldly separation\".\n\nHutterite communes, called \"colonies\", are all rural; many depend largely on farming or ranching, depending on their locale for their income. Colonies in the modern era have been shifting to manufacturing as it gets more difficult to make a living on farming alone. The colony is virtually self-sufficient as far as labor, constructing its own buildings, doing its own maintenance and repair on equipment, making its own clothes, etc. This has changed in recent years and colonies have started to depend a little more on outside sources for food, clothing, and other goods.\n\nHutterite agriculture today is specialized and more or less industrialized. Hutterite children therefore have no close contact with farm animals anymore and are not protected from asthma through close contact with farm animals, like Amish children are, but are now similar to the general North American population.\n\nHutterite colonies are mostly male-managed with women participating in roles such as cooking, medical decisions, and selection and purchase of fabric for clothing. Each colony has three high-level leaders. The two top-level leaders are the Minister and the Secretary. A third leader is the Assistant Minister. The Minister also holds the position as President in matters related to the incorporation of the legal business entity associated with each colony. The Secretary is widely referred to as the colony \"Manager\", \"Boss\" or \"Business Boss\" and is responsible for the business operations of the colony, such as bookkeeping, cheque-writing and budget organization. The Assistant Minister helps in church leadership (preaching) responsibilities, but will often also be the \"German Teacher\" for the school-aged children.\n\nThe Secretary's wife sometimes holds the title of \"Schneider\" (from German \"tailor\") and thus she is in charge of clothes making and purchasing the colony's fabric requirements for making of all clothing. The term \"boss\" is used widely in colony language. Aside from the Secretary who functions as the business boss, there are a number of other significant \"boss\" positions in most colonies. The most significant in the average colony is the \"Farm Boss.\" This person is responsible for all aspects of overseeing grain farming operations. This includes crop management, agronomy, crop insurance planning and assigning staff to various farming operations.\n\nBeyond these top-level leadership positions there will also be the \"Hog Boss\",\"Dairy Boss\", and so on, depending on what agricultural operations exist at the specific colony. In each case, these individuals are fully responsible for their area of responsibility and will have other colony residents working in their area.\n\nThe Minister, Secretary, and all \"boss\" positions are elected positions and many decisions are taken to a vote before they are implemented.\n\nThe voting and decision-making process at most colonies is based upon a two-tiered structure including a council—usually seven senior males—and the voting membership which includes all the married men of the colony. For \"significant\" decisions the council will first vote and, if passed, the decision will be carried to the voting membership.\n\nThis structure has resulted in a democratic culture in most colonies. Officials not following the democratically selected decisions can be removed by a similar vote of a colony.\n\nThere is a wide range of leadership cultures and styles between the three main colony varieties. In some cases very dominant ministers or secretaries may hold greater sway over some colonies than others. However, the general prevailing culture in most colonies is strongly democratic.\n\nWomen and children hold no formal vote in decision-making power in a colony. They often hold influence on decision-making through the informal processes of a colony's social framework.\n\nOverarching all internal governance processes within a single colony is the broader \"Bishop\" structure of leaders from across a \"branch\" (Lehrer-, Darius- or Schmiedeleut) such that all colonies within each branch are subject to the broader decision-making of that branch's \"Bishop\" council. A minister of a colony who does not ensure his colony follows broader \"Bishop\" council decisions can be removed from his position.\n\nHutterites practice a near-total community of goods: all property is owned by the colony, and provisions for individual members and their families come from the common resources. This practice is based largely on Hutterite interpretation of passages in chapters 2, 4, and 5 of Acts, which speak of the believers \"having all things in common\". Thus the colony owns and operates its buildings and equipment like a corporation. Housing units are built and assigned to individual families but belong to the colony and there is very little personal property. Lunch and dinner meals are taken by the entire colony in a dining or fellowship room. Men and women sit in a segregated fashion. Special occasions sometimes allow entire families to enjoy meals together. Individual housing units do have kitchens which are used for breakfast meals.\n\nEach colony may consist of about 10 to 20 families (may not always apply), with a population of around 60 to 250. When the colony's population grows near the upper limit and its leadership determines that branching off is economically and spiritually necessary, they locate, purchase land for, and build a \"daughter\" colony.\n\nThe process by which a colony splits to create a new daughter colony varies across the branches of colonies. In Lehrerleut, this process is quite structured, while in Darius and Schmiedeleut the process can be somewhat less structured. In a Lehrerleut colony, the land will be purchased and buildings actually constructed before anyone in the colony knows who will be relocating to the daughter colony location. The final decision as to who leaves and who stays will not be made until everything is ready at the new location.\n\nDuring the construction process, the colony leadership splits the colony up as evenly as possible, creating two separate groups of families. The two groups are made as close as possible to equal in size, taking into account the practical limits of family unit sizes in each group. Additionally, the leadership must split the business operations as evenly as possible. This means deciding which colony might take on, for example, either hog farming or dairy. Colony members are given a chance to voice concerns about which group a family is assigned to, but at some point, a final decision is made. This process can be very difficult and stressful for a colony, as many political and family dynamics become topics of discussion, and not everyone will be happy about the process or its results.\n\nOnce all decisions have been made, the two groups might be identified as \"Group A\" and \"Group B\". The last evening before a new group of people is to leave the \"mother\" colony for the \"daughter\" colony, two pieces of paper, labeled \"Group A\" and \"Group B\", are placed into a hat. The minister will pray, asking for God's choice of the paper drawn from the hat, and will draw one piece of paper. The name drawn will indicate which group is leaving for the daughter colony. Within hours, the daughter colony begins the process of settling a brand new site.\n\nThis very structured procedure differs dramatically from the one that might be used at some Darius and Schmiedeleut colonies, where the split can sometimes be staggered over time, with only small groups of people moving to the new location at a time.\n\nHutterite colonies often own large tracts of land and, since they function as a collective unit, can make or afford higher quality equipment than if they were working alone. Some also run industrial hog, dairy, turkey, chicken, and egg production operations.\nAn increasing number of Hutterite colonies are again venturing into the manufacturing sector, a change that is reminiscent of an early period of Hutterite life in Europe. Before the Hutterites emigrated to North America, they relied on manufacturing to sustain their communities. It was only in Russia that the Hutterites learned to farm from the Mennonites. Because of the increasing automation of farming (large equipment, GPS-controlled seeding, spraying, etc.), farming operations have become much more efficient. Many colonies that have gone into manufacturing believe they need to provide their members with a higher level of education.\n\nA major driving force for Hutterite leadership today is the recognition that land prices have risen dramatically in Alberta and Saskatchewan because of the oil and gas industry, thus creating the need for a greater amount of cash to buy land when it comes time for a colony to split. The splitting process requires the purchase of land and the construction of buildings. This can require funds in the range of $20 million CDN in 2008 terms, upwards of $10M for land and another $10M for buildings and construction. This massive cash requirement has forced leadership to re-evaluate how a colony can produce the necessary funds. New projects have included plastics manufacturing, metal fabrication, cabinetry, and stone or granite forming, to name a few. One unique project came together in South Dakota. A group of 44 colonies joined to create a turkey processing center where their poultry can be processed. The plant hired non-Hutterite staff to process the poultry for market. This plant helped to secure demand for the colonies' poultry.\n\nHutterites do not shun modern technology, but may limit some uses of it. They attempt to remove themselves from the outside world (televisions – and in some cases the internet – are banned), and up until recently, many of the Lehrerleut and Dariusleut (Alberta) colonies still only had one central phone. The Schmiedeleut had made this transition earlier, where each household had a telephone along with a central phone for the colony business operation. Phones are used for both business and social purposes. Cell phones are also very common among all three groups today. Text messaging has made cell phones particularly useful for Hutterian young people wishing to keep in touch with their peers. Most Hutterite homes have computers and radios; a minority of communities (mostly, liberal Schmiedeleut colonies) have Internet access. Farming equipment technology generally matches or exceeds that of non-Hutterite farmers. Lehrerleut colonies have recently struggled with the proliferation of computers and have clamped down so that computers are no longer allowed in households and their use is limited to only business and farming operations including animal, feed and crop management. But as the world evolves more and technology is used more and more for work and communication, many Hutterite young people use computers, photos, and the internet for keeping in contact with their friends, relatives and meeting new people outside the colony.\n\nRather than send their children to an outside school, Hutterites build a schoolhouse at the colony to fulfill the educational agreement with the province or state. The school is typically run by a hired \"outside\" teacher who teaches the basics including English. In some Schmiedeleut schools, teachers are chosen from the colony. The \"German\" education of colony children is the responsibility of the \"Assistant Minister\" at some colonies, but most colonies elect a \"German Teacher\", who in most cases also takes care of the colony garden. His job entails training in German language studies, Bible teaching, and scripture memorization. The German Teacher will cooperate with the outside teacher with regard to scheduling and planning. Some Hutterite colonies are allowed to send their children to public school as the parents see fit, but in some cases it is customary to remove them from school entirely in 8th grade or at the age of 15; however, many colonies offer them a full grade 12 diploma and in some cases a university degree. Public school in these instances is seen as a luxury and children are sometimes made to miss days of school in favor of duties at the colony. In a few rare cases, allowing a child to continue attending school past this limit can result in punishment of the parents, including shunning and removal from the church.\n\nThree different branches of Hutterites live in the prairies of North America: the Schmiedeleut, the Dariusleut and the Lehrerleut. Though all three \"leut\" are Hutterites, there are some distinctive differences, including style of dress and organizational structure. However, the original doctrine of all three groups is identical. The differences are mostly traditional and geographic.\n\nThere are two other related groups. The Arnoldleut—also referred to as the Bruderhof Communities or currently, Church Communities International—is a group of more recent origin which, prior to 1990, were accepted by the Dariusleut and Lehrerleut groups as a part of the Hutterite community. The Schmiedeleut were divided over the issue. One group is called the 'oilers', because of an issue over an oil well. The other is the Prairieleut – Hutterites that lived in separate households rather than in colonies after settling on the American prairies. At the time of immigration the Prairieleut amounted to around 2/3 of the Hutterite immigrants. Most of the Prairieleut eventually united with the Mennonites.\n\nSince 1992, the Schmiedeleut, until that point the largest of the three \"leut,\" have been divided into \"Group One\" and \"Group Two\" factions over controversies including the Arnoldleut/Bruderhof issue and the leadership of the Schmiedeleut elder. This highly acrimonious division has cut across family lines and remains a serious matter almost two decades later. Group One colonies generally have relatively more liberal positions on issues including higher education, ecumenical and missions work, musical instruments, media, and technology.\n\nAlberta Hutterites initially won the right not to have their photographs taken for their drivers' licenses. In May 2007, the Alberta Court of Appeal ruled that the photograph requirement violates their religious rights and that driving was essential to their way of life. The Wilson Colony based its position on the belief that images are prohibited by the Second Commandment. About eighty of the photo-less licenses were in use at the time of the decision. Besides the Alberta Hutterite groups (Darius and Lehrerleut), a handful of colonies in Manitoba (Schmiedeleut) do not wish their members to be photographed for licenses or other identity documents.\n\nHowever, in July 2009, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled 4–3 (in \"Alberta v. Hutterian Brethren of Wilson Colony\") that a Hutterite community must abide by provincial rules that make a digital photo mandatory for all new driver's licences as a way to prevent identity theft.\n\nDespite this animosity towards photography, there are photographs of Hutterites which were evidently done with their consent and co-operation. In particular, from 1972–1980, Chicago photographer Mary Koga went to rural Alberta to work on her series \"The Hutterites\". Her images show the members of the community with great openness, sympathy and a touch of humor.\n\nIn contrast to the uniformly plain look of the Amish and Old Order Mennonites, Hutterite clothing can be vividly coloured, especially on children, although many Hutterites do wear plain dress. Most of the clothing is homemade within the colony. Shoes were homemade in the past but are now mostly store-bought.\n\nMen's jackets and pants are usually black. Generally the men's shirts are button-up shirts with long sleeves and collars, and they may wear undershirts. Men's pants are not held in place by belts, but rather by black suspenders. These pants are also distinctive by their lack of back pockets.\n\nWomen and girls wear a dress with a blouse underneath. Most Lehrerleut and Dariusleut also wear a kerchief-style Christian headcovering which is usually black with white polka dots. The Schmiedleut also wear a kerchief-style head cover, but without the dots. The polka dots tells which branch the women belong to. Young girls wear a bright, colorful cap that fastens under the chin.\n\nChurch garb is generally dark for both men and women. The clothing worn for church consists of a plain jacket for both genders and a black apron for women. Men's church hats are always dark and usually black.\n\nJust as the Amish and Old Order Mennonites often use Pennsylvania German, the Hutterites have preserved and use among themselves a distinct dialect of German known as Hutterite German, or Hutterisch. Originally mainly based on a Tyrolean dialect from the south-central German-speaking Europe from which many of them sprang in the 16th century, Hutterisch has taken on a Carinthian base because of their history: In the years 1760–1763, a small group of surviving Hutterites in Transylvania were joined by a larger group of Lutheran forced migrants from Carinthia, the so-called Transylvanian Landler. Eventually, this led to the replacement of the Hutterites' Tyrolean dialect with the Carinthian dialect. The Amish and Hutterite German dialects are not generally mutually intelligible because the dialects originate from regions that are several hundred kilometers apart. In their religious exercises, Hutterites use a classic Lutheran German.\n\nThe very high birth rate among the Hutterites has decreased dramatically since 1950, as they have dropped from around ten children per family in 1954 to under five in 2010 and even lower in the years since then. Hutterite fertility rates remain relatively high compared to the general North American population, but relatively low compared to other traditional Anapatist groups like the Amish or the Old Order Mennonites. While Hutterite women traditionally married around the ages of 20 or 21, marriage in the 21st century very often is delayed until the late 20s. Whereas Hutterite women traditionally had children until their mid 40s, today most Hutterite woman have their last child around the age of 35.\n\nAs part of their Anabaptist teachings of nonresistance, Hutterites have historically avoided getting involved in litigation within the secular justice system. One of the early founders of the Hutterites, Peter Riedemann, wrote about the Hutterite's stand on going to court in \"Peter Riedemann's Hutterite Confession of Faith\":\n\"Christ shows that Christians may not go to court when he says, 'If anyone will sue you and take away your coat, let him have your cloak also.' In effect Jesus is saying, 'It is better to let people take everything than to quarrel with them and find yourself in a strange court.' Christ wants us to show that we seek what is heavenly and belongs to us, and not what is temporal or alien to us. Thus, it is evident that a Christian can neither go to court nor be a judge.\"\n\nConsistent with their beliefs, records do not indicate any litigation initiated by the Hutterites up to the twentieth century. However, in their more recent history in North America some Hutterite conflicts have emerged in court litigations. Several cases involved the Hutterite Colony defending their religious lifestyle against the government. This includes the recent conflict over photographs on driver's licenses in \"Alberta v Hutterian Brethren of Wilson Colony\". Another recent case in the United States, \"Big Sky Colony Inc. v. Montana Department of Labor and Industry\", forced the Hutterites to participate in the state's workers compensation system despite the Hutterites religious objections.\n\nThe willingness of the colonies to take matters to secular courts has also resulted in internal religious disputes being brought before the court. Two of these cases have come by appeal before the Supreme Court of Canada: \"Hofer v. Hofer\" (1970) and \"Lakeside Colony of Hutterian Brethren v. Hofer\" (1992).\n\"Hofer v. Hofer\" involved several expelled members of the Interlake Colony in Manitoba who sought a share of the communal property. The Supreme Court of Canada ruled that according to the religious tenets of the Hutterites the Hutterites have no individual property and therefore the former members cannot be entitled to a share of the Hutterite colony goods. In the case of \"Lakeside Colony of Hutterian Brethren v. Hofer\", Daniel Hofer Sr. of Lakeside Colony challenged the right of the Hutterian Brethren Church to expel him and other members. The igniting issue focused on who owned the rights to a patented hog feeder. The Board of Managers of the Colony had ruled that Hofer did not own the patent of the hog feeder in question and should stop producing the item. Hofer refused to submit to what he considered an injustice and also refused to obey the colony's order of expulsion. In response Jacob Kleinsasser of Crystal Spring Colony, elder of the Schmiedleut group of Hutterites, tried to use the state to enforce the expulsion order. Daniel Hofer Sr. initially lost the case. Hofer also lost his first appeal but finally won on an appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada who overturned the expulsion.\nThe outcome of these two cases has strongly influenced the outcome of similar cases in Canada. When some members of The Nine sued their former colony in Manitoba in 2008 over lost wages and injuries the case was never even heard in court.\n\nIn the United States judges have repeatedly dismissed cases that were brought against the colony by colony members or former members. Such cases include \"Wollma, et al. v. Poinsett Hutterian Brethren, Inc.\" (1994) in South Dakota, and \"Eli Wollman, Sr., et all. v. Ayers Ranch Colony\" (2001) in Montana. More recently in North Dakota, a case was brought by some of The Nine against Forest River Colony and was again dismissed by a judge in March 2010, ruling that the courts did not have subject matter jurisdiction over the case.\n\nIn the last 150 years several subgroups of Hutterites emerged. When the Hutterites migrated to the United States in 1874 and the following years there was a division between those who settled on colonies and lived with community of goods and those who settled on private farms according to the conditions of the Homestead Act of 1862. The homesteaders were called Prairieleut, while the ones who settled on the three communal colonies developed into three branches: Schmiedeleut, Dariusleut and Lehrerleut. In the 1990s the Schmiedeleut spilt into two subgroups.\n\nDuring the 20th centuries three groups joined the Hutterites, two of them only temporarily:\n\nStarting in 1999 three Hutterite colonies separated from their original \"Leut\" affiliation and became independent. For these three colonies spiritual renewal became a major concern. One of them, Elmendorf branched out two times, so that there are now five colonies of that kind, that cooperate closely, thus forming a new affiliation of Hutterite Christian Communities.\n\n\nThe mid-2004 location and number of the world's 483 Hutterite colonies:\n\n\"49th Parallel\" (1941) has a segment that takes place at a Hutterite community in Manitoba, Canada.\n\nIn the \"Kung Fu\" episode \"The Hoots\" (December 13, 1973), the sheepherder members of a Hutterite religious sect offer no resistance to persecution by bigoted cattlemen, until they learn from Kwai Chang Caine that, like the chameleon, they can change and yet remain the same in the American Southwest.\n\n\"The Hutterites\" was a 27:56 min documentary filmed by Colin Law in 1964 with the following synopsis: \"The followers of religious leader Jacob Hutter live in farm communities, devoutly holding to the rules their founder laid down four centuries ago. Through the kindness of a Hutterite colony in Alberta, this film, in black and white, was made inside the community and shows all aspects of the Hutterites' daily life.\"\n\nOn May 29, 2012, the first episode of \"American Colony: Meet the Hutterites\" aired on the National Geographic Channel. Filmed primarily at King Ranch Colony near Lewistown, Montana, with Jeff Collins as executive producer, the colony was paid $100,000 for permission to produce a documentary of Hutterite life. Immediately after the first airing, many Hutterites began to complain that the show did not represent a true picture of typical colony life and ended up being a reality show or \"soap opera\" rather than a documentary. Some of the Hutterite cast later said that some of the scenes were scripted and that they were not aware of how the final version would portray the Hutterites. Jeff Collins stated that he believes King Colony members were coerced to write retractions, under threat of excommunication from Hutterite leaders. Colony leaders from King Ranch Colony wrote a letter to the National Geographic Society asking for an apology and that the show be discontinued, citing a false portrayal of Hutterites and a \"breach of contract and defamation of our life and our character\" as the reason.\nIn 2013, \"How to Get to Heaven with the Hutterites\" was broadcast on BBC2 and looked at the lives of the people within the community.\n\nAnother film about the Hutterites is \"The Valley of All Utopias\" (2012), a documentary about a Hutterite colony in Saskatchewan directed by Thomas Risch.\n\nHutterites were featured in the CBC TV series \"Heartland in Season 8 Episode 7 \"Walk a Mile\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22035064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22035064", "title": "International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property", "text": "International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property\n\nThe International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property (ICCROM) is an intergovernmental organization dedicated to the preservation of cultural heritage worldwide through training, information, research, cooperation and advocacy programmes. It aims to enhance the field of conservation-restoration and raise awareness to the importance and fragility of cultural heritage.\n\nThe creation of the Centre took place as a result of a proposal at the UNESCO General Conference held in New Delhi, in 1956. Three years later, the Centre was established in Rome, Italy, where its headquarters remain to this day.\n\nICCROM responds to the needs of its Member States, which are currently at 136.\n\nICCROM’s mission is defined by a set of statutes that were drafted shortly before its establishment (and revised on 25 November 2009).\n\nICCROM's mission is fulfilled through five areas of activity: training, information, research, cooperation and advocacy.\n\nICCROM contributes to capacity building through the development of educational materials, training activities worldwide, internships and fellows. Since 1965, ICCROM has offered courses to mid-career professionals on a wide range of topics that include archaeological site conservation, architectural records and inventories, built heritage conservation, conservation decision making, cultural heritage management, preventive conservation in museums and risk management to endangered collections. Other courses are focused on specific materials such as stone, wood, or sound and image collections, and others still focus on the conservation of heritage in specific regional areas, such as the Arab region or Southeast Asia.\n\nThe ICCROM library is one of the world’s leading sources of information on the conservation and restoration of cultural heritage. It contains more than 115,000 registered references and 1,800 specialized journals in more than 60 languages. In addition, the archive contains institutional records that date back to ICCROM’s creation, as well as over 200,000 images of cultural heritage worldwide in relation to ICCROM’s scientific and educational activities. The website is a portal to comprehensive information about courses, activities, international events, and employment and training opportunities in the conservation field.\n\nICCROM facilitates a vast network of conservation professionals and institutions through which it organizes and coordinates meetings to devise common approaches and methodologies. It also promotes the definition of internationally agreed ethics, criteria and technical standards for conservation practice. The in-house laboratory is also a reference point and resource for professionals, course participants, interns and fellows of the organization.\n\nICCROM carries out all of its activities in collaboration with a vast number of institutional and professional partners. Additionally, it serves its Member States in the form of collaborative projects, training, and technical advice. \n\nICCROM disseminates teaching materials and organizes workshops and conferences to raise public awareness and support for conservation.\n\nThe end of the Second World War came with the need to repair monuments and other forms of cultural heritage that had been either damaged or destroyed. At the same time, other countries were emerging from colonization and were eager to industrialize, reclaim and redefine their cultural identity, and train personnel to preserve their heritage.\n\nOn an international level, there was a lack of cohesive training and authoritative bodies to guide countries in rebuilding and protecting their heritage. Thus, during the Sixth Session of the UNESCO General Conference (1951), the Swiss government introduced a resolution that proposed the establishment of an international centre to encourage the study and awareness of methods of conservation on a global scale. This was adopted and a committee of experts were put together to decide upon the role and functions of this institution. In the Centre’s ten-year anniversary commemorative booklet (\"The First Decade 1959-1969\", pp. 12-13), Hiroshi Daifuku of the Section for the Development of the Cultural Heritage (UNESCO) explained,\n\nThese functions would become the template for the Centre’s statutes.\n\nIn 1956 the resolution was adopted at the Ninth Session of the UNESCO General Conference in New Delhi and in 1957, an agreement was signed between the Government of the Italian Republic and UNESCO to establish this Centre in Rome.\n\nThe adhesion of five Member States by 1958 allowed the Statutes to come into force, making the Centre a legal entity. Collaboration was established with other European conservation institutions, namely the Central Institute of Restoration of Italy (ICR, now ISCR) and the Royal Institute for Restoration of Works of Art (IRPA) in Belgium. A provisional council nominated by UNESCO was created to govern the Centre and in 1959, it opened in Rome with Harold J. Plenderleith, renowned Keeper at the British Museum, as its Director. The Belgian art historian, Paul Philippot was appointed Deputy Director and the first General Assembly took place in 1960 during which the first regular Council Members were elected.\n\nBelow is a timeline of key events in the Centre’s development:\n\n\nICCROM’s governance consists of the General Assembly, the Council and the Secretariat.\n\nThe General Assembly is composed of delegates from all of the ICCROM Member States who convene in Rome every two years to dictate the organization’s policies, approve the programme of activities and budget, and elect the Council and Director-General.\n\nThe General Assembly also approves reports on Council and Secretariat activities, determine Member State contribution, and adopt and revise ICCROM’s Statutes and regulations, when necessary.\n\nMembers of ICCROM’s Council are elected from among the most qualified experts in the conservation-restoration field worldwide. In choosing members of Council, equitable representations from all of the cultural regions of the world, as well as relevant fields of specialization are taken into account.\n\nThe Council meets annually at the ICCROM headquarters in Rome.\n\nThe Secretariat of ICCROM consists of the Director-General and staff. The Director-General is responsible for the execution of the approved programme of activities. Staff are distributed between sectors dealing with immovable heritage (monuments, archaeological sites, historic cities, etc.), movable heritage (such as museum collections), Knowledge and Communication (the Library and Archives, publications, the web site), the didactic Laboratory, and Finance and Administration.\n\n\n\nSince 1979, the ICCROM Award has been granted to individuals who have given a significant contribution to the development of the institution, and who have special merit in the field of conservation, protection and restoration of cultural heritage. This award is given each biennium to one or two nominees who have been chosen by the Council. Below is the list of previous ICCROM Award recipients (in alphabetical order).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6692372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6692372", "title": "Knights of the Temple: Infernal Crusade", "text": "Knights of the Temple: Infernal Crusade\n\nKnights of the Temple: Infernal Crusade is an action-adventure video game released in 2004 by Starbreeze Studios. The game was released only in Europe. The soundtrack was by the Dutch metal band Within Temptation. A sequel, \"Knights of the Temple II\", was released in 2005.\n\nThe player character Paul is a Templar knight on his first Crusade, to stop the end of the world by fighting his way through the sombre gloom of European monasteries and villages to the colourful bazaars and powerful bastions of the crusader castles under the blazing sun of the Holy Land and by entering the realms of hell and face his worst nightmares.\n\nAn evil Bishop has abducted Adelle, a mysterious young woman with divine powers and Paul's beloved childhood friend. With his entourage of disciples and their captive Adelle he embarks on an Unholy Crusade, moving along the initial routes of the historic holy wars. By misusing Adelle's powers against her he plans to complete the Unholy Circle and to perform dark rituals at sacred places to desecrate them. This way he intends to eventually unlock and gain access to the Gateway to Hell.\n\nPaul finds upon him the tough task of starting a mission to uncover the Evil Conspiracy, to interrupt the Unholy Circle and to prevent the Evil Bishop from fulfilling his plan. Only by saving Adelle can he save the world from Evil.\n\nIn the final confrontation with evil, the powers of hell have been unleashed and the corrupt bishop has gained limitless powers. Paul fights him and his henchmen, resurrecting countless of evil minion where Paul struggles to fight. Eventually the bishop was defeated and thrown into hell, and Paul, although weak and wounded, saved the world from darkness. He then brings Adelle home to her mother where they say that Paul's victory was the will of God, something to which Adelle agrees. However, whilst Paul and her mother look away, Adelle's eyes turn black, indicating that she has been possessed by a demon.\n\n\"Knights of the Temple\" is a dynamic camera third-person hack and slash game set in the medieval times. Players take hold of various medieval weapons from axe, mace, sword, to mastering archery. These weapons have their own combos, damage, and attack speed with various Divine Powers and Special Attacks. Using the bow will let you play in first-person. Right from the first hack, relentless batches of enemies has to be dispatched with ever increasing degrees of stylish violence, doors to be unlocked, keys to be found and the occasional puzzle to be solved.\n\nThe first dozen or so levels take literally minutes to hack your way through, and quickly the tone is set for the rest of the game, with a regular addition of new weapons and new moves, as well as the occasional puzzle and boss to fight along the way.\n"}
{"id": "5937367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5937367", "title": "Lacuna model", "text": "Lacuna model\n\nThe lacuna model is a tool for unlocking culture differences or missing \"gaps\" in text (in the further meaning). The lacuna model was established as a theory by Jurij Sorokin and Irina Markovina (Russia), further developed by Astrid Ertelt-Vieth and Hartmut Schröder (Germany) and practical research tested in ethnopsycholinguistics (Igor Panasiuk 2000 and 2005), Russian studies (Vladimir Zhelvis 2002; Astrid Ertelt-Vieth 1987; 2005), American studies (Iosif Sternin and Marina Sternina 2001), Arabic studies (Sherine Elsayed 2005), Germanics studies (Elena Denisova-Schmidt 2005), Finnish studies (Pirkko Muikku-Werner 2005), literature studies (Irina Markovina 2005), foreign language acquisition (Natalia Turunen 2005), film studies (Hannah Sard 2005), journalism (B. Dellinger 1995; Myles Ludwig and Erika Grodzki 2005), translation studies (Susanne Becker 2005), cultural studies (Gwenn Gundula Hiller 2005), advertising research (Erika Grodzki 2003), human resource management (Mariola Kaplanek 2005), transcultural studies (Elena Denisova-Schmidt 2015), and cross-cultural and intercultural management (Mariola Boensch 2013; Olena Kryzhko 2015).\n\nThere are a few classifications of lacunas in existence. Astrid Ertelt-Vieth (2005) labels the first dimension (three major categories as: mental lacunas, activity lacunas and object lacunas) and the second dimension (axiological lacunas) of all lacunas.\n\n\nAll lacunas could be confrontative, contrastive, implicit, explicit, relative, profound, absolute, relational and structural.\n\nThe Lacuna model is utilized to analyze cultural differences on a micro-level, i.e. it is looking at individual interactions and potential gaps caused by these interactions. It can be used both as stand-alone tool (e.g. Elena Denisova-Schmidt 2005, Gwenn Gundula Hiller 2005, Erika Grodzki 2003) or in combination with established frameworks in cross-cultural communication such as Hofstede's cultural dimensions theory, Trompenaars' model of national culture differences, Schwarz’ framework and the GLOBE Study (Olena Kryzhko 2015).\n\nLacunas and gaps can often be observed in intercultural communication. In the beginning, the lacunian approach was used to analyze foreign texts and translations from one language to another. For example, English operates with two articles “the” and “a”, without differentiating between gender. In contrast, many other European languages, e.g. German, French, Italian, etc., have gender-specific articles. For example, for each “the” in German language, there are three gender specific articles “der”, “die” and “das”. Another very common example refers to nonexistence of concepts and terms. Thus, there is no word in English, German, French, Italian and many other languages for the Russian term “путевка“ (‘putevka’, which can be described as a voucher for a particular trip on specified route). The Chinese word “Guanxi”, which describes basic dynamics in the personal network of influence, also has no analogy in West-European languages.\n\nIn intercultural communication, lacunas address not only gaps in language structure and linguistics, but also non-verbal differences that result from different social structures and experiences. In this case, a lacuna can represent differences in behavior, living conditions and structures, and processes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1094790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1094790", "title": "Last call (bar term)", "text": "Last call (bar term)\n\nIn a bar, a last call (last orders) is an made shortly before the bar closes for the night, informing patrons of their last chance to buy alcoholic beverages. There are various means to make this signal, like ringing a bell, flashing the lights, or announcing orally.\n\nLast call times are often legally mandated and vary widely globally as well as locally. Legislation's purpose include reducing late night noise in the neighborhood, traffic accidents, violence, and alcohol related health problems.\n\nIn New South Wales, there is no specified closing time, although in residential areas bars are often required to close at midnight. In non-residential areas some bars are open 24 hours. However, a six-hour daily closure period applies to new licenses (and extended hours authorizations) granted from 30 October 2008; this period is nominated depending on individual and community circumstances.\n\nDuring a significant part of the 20th century, bars in Australia and New Zealand were closed at 6 p.m. by law. The resulting rush to buy drinks after work was known as the six o'clock swill.\n\nBar closing hours in Austria are regulated by the federated states. In most states bars must close at 4 a.m. although many places have special permits to close later. In the capital Vienna bars and clubs are allowed to stay open until 6 a.m. Alcohol is allowed to be served until the bar or club closes.\n\nThere is no legally mandated last call in Belgium; many bars will stay open all night.\n\n\nMany bars, KTVs and nightclubs have no specific last call and will continue to sell alcohol and stay open provided there are paying customers present. However, during sensitive times where national security is increased (i.e. the Olympics, the 60th Anniversary of the PRC), closing times may be in effect in some cities between 1 and 3 a.m. Alcohol is sold through retailers 24 hours a day.\n\nAccording to the state law, establishments that serve drinks can register as bars, in which case they are allowed to be open in inhabited areas only in indoor spaces and only between 21:00 and 06:00, while no such restrictions exist if bars are located outside inhabited areas. Various exceptions can be made for bars located in transit facilities, if approved by the local authorities, etc. The prescribed working hours for bars are a frequent point of contention between city authorities and local businessmen, particularly during the summer tourist season.\n\nThe Dominican Republic has an alcohol curfew starting at 2:00 a.m. exempting non-religious National Holidays. Not applicable to residential dwellings.\n\nBars are allowed to serve drinks until 1:30 a.m., but a provincial government may at the proprietor's request, grant extensions up to 3.30 a.m. Extensions require the establishment to maintain a higher standard of amenities, service and entertainment by, for example, providing a coat check, entertainment programming such as a DJ or live music, and even general cleanliness and \"look and feel\" count. These laws were loosened beginning of 2018.\n\nA last call is not announced per se, but as a custom, the lights are flashed a few times (or in case of a dimly lit establishment such as a nightclub, all lights are left on) to notify the customers that serving drinks is over.\n\nBar closing hours in Germany are regulated by the federated states or cities. Since the 2000s, many federated states and cities have none or relaxed regulations. In many states and cities bars are open as long as there are customers. \nOpen-air locations such as beer gardens often must close at 11 p.m. or 12 a.m. to reduce noise pollution. Exceptions may exist for weekends, Carnival and New Year's Eve etc. Not all cities strictly enforce the regulation.\n\nIn Greece, all bars, cafeterias, clubs, and the like will stay open as long as there are customers inside. Usually, cafeterias stay open until 11 p.m., bars until 2 a.m. and clubs until early in the morning, but there is no last call whatsoever. In 1994, Stelios Papathemelis who was the Minister for Public Order at the time passed a law mandating closing of all bars at 2 a.m. The law was widely unpopular, never materialized fully and was abolished a few years later.\n\nIndia closing time of bars vary in different states. In Delhi it is 1am, Mumbai 1:30am, Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata at midnight. In Chandigarh it is 1 a.m. weekdays and 2 a.m. weekends. In Bangalore it is 11:30 p.m. on weekdays and 1am on Friday and Saturday nights.\n\nBar closing hours are governed by the \"Intoxicating Liquor Act 2000\". Generally, bars must close at 23:30 Sunday to Thursday and 00:30 on Friday and Saturday. There are special provisions for certain holidays and festivals. However, bars may get an extended license until 02:30 any night.\n\nIn Israel, there are no specific closing times and the country has liberal alcohol laws. Bars and clubs in entertainment districts will serve alcohol practically 24 hours a day, while in residential districts local regulations apply; establishments that serve alcohol outside may often have to call their guests inside after midnight or even close completely.\n\nIn 2006, Knesset member Ruhama Avraham attempted to pass a bill in parliament that would forbid selling alcohol between 2 and 6 a.m. The bill faced severe resistance from bar and restaurant owners and finally was drawn back.\n\nIn Tel Aviv, bars are fined for remaining open past 1 a.m. Though few bars actually close at that time, they are forced to pay this \"back-door\" tax to the municipality, with no recourse to the national government. A number of bars are contemplating closing at the required time and during internationally promoted events such as Gay Pride Week in protest of the city's underhanded hypocrisy in promoting itself as \"the city that never sleeps\" while at the same time fining the very establishments that make it such a hot tourist mecca.\n\nAlcohol is no longer sold around the clock in grocery stores, and no sales are allowed between 23:00 and 6:00.\n\nItaly does not have a legally mandated closing time. Alcohol may be served or sold anywhere 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.\nIn Rome, an ordinance was passed in January 2009 to make 2 a.m. the last call in Campo de' Fiori and the neighborhoods of Trastevere and Testaccio. The new last call time for these areas was initiated to curtail nighttime commotion in these popular parts of Rome.\n\nJapan does not have a legally mandated closing time. Alcohol may be served or sold anywhere 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.\n\nUntil December 18, 2013, bars could close at any time they wanted (often 7 am). But from December 18, 2013 all bars and nightclubs must close at 4 am. Special conditions apply on Holy/ Maundy Thursday, Holy Saturday (aka Easter Eve,) The Day Before ANZAC day and Christmas Eve where bars must close their doors by midnight (However, private bars and workingmen's clubs can stay open beyond that curfew). There was a period in New Zealand history where Pubs closed at 6 pm and could not open on Sundays.\n\nLast call laws vary. Cities and towns are free to impose more restrictive regulations, but no later than 3 a.m.\n\n\nOut of the 429 counties of Norway, almost 50% have established a closing time or \"last call\" at 2 a.m.\nOnly 1 in 7 counties serves drinks until the laws maximum allowance at 3 a.m. This is a major decrease over the last few years\nbecause of the government's belief that reduced drinking hours equal less fighting, noise, disturbance, etc.\n\nIn Sweden, explicit last calls do not take place, as it would violate a political principle not to encourage people to drink more. The latest allowed closing time of bars and restaurant is decided by the municipality but regulated by national laws and rules. The standard latest time is 1 a.m. But in many cities a later time can be allowed on some conditions, like high security and staff educated in responsible serving of alcohol. In some of the largest cities, a closing time as late as 5 a.m. occurs.\n\n\n\nThe average \"Last Call\" time is between 11 PM and 1 AM in municipalities like Birmingham and London. This information was taken from two hundred bars from 2014 to 2016. Bars and clubs can apply for individual licenses allowing them to close at any time between 11 pm and 5 am. Some establishments in big cities have 24-hour licenses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2472775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2472775", "title": "Lead sheet", "text": "Lead sheet\n\nA lead sheet is a form of musical notation that specifies the essential elements of a popular song: the melody, lyrics and harmony. The melody is written in modern Western music notation, the lyric is written as text below the staff and the harmony is specified with chord symbols above the staff.\n\nThe lead sheet does not describe the chord voicings, voice leading, bass line or other aspects of the accompaniment. These are specified later by an arranger or improvised by the performers, and are considered aspects of the arrangement or performance of a song, rather than a part of the song itself. \n\nA lead sheet may also specify an instrumental part or theme, if this is considered essential to the song's identity. For example, the opening guitar riff from Deep Purple's \"Smoke on the Water\" is a part of the song; any performance of the song should include the guitar riff, and any imitation of that guitar riff is an imitation of the song. Thus the riff belongs on the lead sheet.\n\nA lead sheet is often the only form of written music used by a small jazz ensemble. One or more musicians will play the melody while the rest of the group improvises an appropriate accompaniment based on the chord progression given in the chord symbols, followed by an improvised solo also based on the chord progression. Similarly, a sufficiently skilled jazz pianist should be able to accompany a singer and perform a song by her or himself using only a lead sheet.\n\nLead sheets are also called fake sheets and collections of lead sheets are called \"fakebooks\".\nThe melody, lyrics, and harmony define what a song is. In the music industry and entertainment law, a lead sheet is the document used to describe a song for legal purposes. For example, a lead sheet is the form of a song to which copyright is applied—if a songwriter sues someone for copyright violation, the court will compare lead sheets to determine how much of the song has been copied. Or if a song is considered for an Academy Award or a Grammy, the song is submitted for consideration in the form of a lead sheet.\n\n"}
{"id": "5134412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5134412", "title": "Learnscapes", "text": "Learnscapes\n\nLearnscapes are defined as “places where a learning program has been designed to permit users to interact with the environment”. Their purpose is to promote and extend environmental awareness, by presenting biodiversity as the basis for environmental conservation and ecologically sustainable development. This is achieved through developing school based curricula that \"engage students interactively with their surrounding environment\". Ideally, learnscapes incorporate educational, environmental and social outcomes that reflect the character of the community as well as the school site.\n\n\"A Learnscape feature, whether it be an outdoor classroom, worm farm, bush regeneration, recycling area, frog pond or herb garden, is not a Learnscape itself. It is the collaborative process within which the feature is created and plans for how it will be maintained and used for learning once it is created that make the feature a Learnscape\".\n\nLearncape programs also have a “calming effect” on classes, by invoking deeper relationships between students and their teachers.\n"}
{"id": "18720798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18720798", "title": "List of short fiction made into feature films", "text": "List of short fiction made into feature films\n\nThis is a list of short stories and novellas that have been made into feature films. The title of the work is followed by the work's author, the title of the film, and the year of the film. If a film has an alternate title based on geographical distribution, the title listed will be that of the widest distribution area.\n\n"}
{"id": "22590889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22590889", "title": "Lovable rogue", "text": "Lovable rogue\n\nThe lovable rogue is a fictional stock character, often from a working-class upbringing, who tends to recklessly defy norms and social conventions but who still evokes empathy from the audience or other characters. The lovable rogue is generally male and is often trying to \"beat the system\" and better himself, though not by ordinary or widely accepted means. If the protagonist of a story is also a lovable rogue, he is frequently deemed an antihero.\n\nLovable rogues are not the standard paragons of virtue because they frequently break the law or seem to act for their own personal profit; however, they are charming or sympathetic enough to convince the audience to root for them. Although they appear at first to act only for personal gain or to break the law needlessly, lovable rogues are often justified in these actions later on due to some ethical motivation that had not yet been revealed at the time or, at least, have the capacity to atone for their wrongdoings. Many lovable rogues are simply prone to being misled when making ethical decisions while others who appear to act unethically actually maintain a flexible and complicated but legitimate code of ethics.\n\nThe lovable rogue's wild disposition is viewed not as repulsive and alarming so much as exciting and adventurous. He is generally regarded as handsome or attractive and his daredevil attitude further makes him sexually desirable to other characters. He often has a fiery temper and is streetwise—possessing practical knowledge—usually having never been educated in a formal setting.\n\nDespite his common external appearance of selfishness, foolhardiness, or emotional detachment, the lovable rogue may in fact strongly associate with a highly idealistic belief system and understand the concept of a code of honor so highly valued that it transcends normal social constraints such as conformity, tradition, or the law. This sense of an internalized, personal code is usually what makes the lovable rogue lovable, since it serves to confirm that he is moral whereas he may have appeared at first glance to be immoral. The lovable rogue, thus, is not a villain, because he has either a sincere, strong sense of morality (though he may be unwilling to expose it) or has the definite potential for establishing such a moral sense. In addition, his tendency to violate norms may be regarded as a positive trait—having a highly individualistic, creative, or self-reliant personality.\n\n"}
{"id": "46907149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46907149", "title": "Man alone", "text": "Man alone\n\nThe man alone is a literary stock character. Usually an antihero, he is similar to the Byronic hero. The man alone tends to epitomise existentialism, and, in the words of the academic E. H. McCormick is \"the solitary, rootless nonconformist, who in a variety of forms crops up persistently in New Zealand writing\".\n\nMen alone figure frequently in the literature of newly settled or recently colonised countries such as Australia and especially New Zealand, and the term is likely to have found popularity with the publication of the \"Great Kiwi Novel\", \"Man Alone\" by John Mulgan in 1939 (this novel's title itself originated in a quotation from Ernest Hemingway's \"To Have and Have Not\"). The man alone is, by nature, a loner, either by choice or as a result of circumstances beyond his control. This state of separation from society is often literal, in that the man alone will often live physically separate from society as a hermit or working in the wilds of the country. At other times, the state is psychological only; the man alone may live within the presence of others but be emotionally separate or aloof from them. \n\nThe sense of physical or psychological separation between the man alone and society often results in the man alone facing interactions with authority which become kafkaesque through mutual misunderstanding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39513392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39513392", "title": "Named lecture", "text": "Named lecture\n\nA Named Lecture is a lecture delivered usually at a predefined frequency and it is associated with a name of a person of outstanding significance to the subject the lecture is concerned with. Such lectures exist for a number of branches of Science and Engineering and they commemorate individuals who have made significant contribution to the subject.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46503271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46503271", "title": "Nana's Party", "text": "Nana's Party\n\n\"Nana's Party\" is the fifth episode of the second series of the British dark comedy anthology television programme \"Inside No. 9\". It was first broadcast on 23 April 2015 on BBC Two. Written and directed by Steve Pemberton and Reece Shearsmith, the episode starred Claire Skinner as the obsessive-compulsive and aspirational Angela, who is hosting a party for the 79th birthday of her mother Maggie, played by Elsie Kelly. Angela's husband Jim, played by Pemberton, is keen to play a prank on Pat, Angela's brother-in-law, who is a practical joker. Pat is played by Shearsmith, while Carol, a recovering alcoholic who is Pat's wife and Angela's sister, is played by Lorraine Ashbourne. The episode also features Eve Gordon as Katie, Angela and Jim's teenage daughter, and Christopher Whitlow as a paramedic seen at the beginning and end of the episode.\n\nMuch of the episode's plot revolves around a practical joke with a fake cake that Jim has set up in an attempt to fool Pat. Moving the cake reveals the head of the person hiding under the table, but, in the mean time, the hidden character can hear conversations taking place nearby, unbeknownst to those who are not in on the joke. The episode plays on viewers' guesses as to what has led to the arrival—seen at the opening of the episode—of a paramedic. In particular, the person under the table is at risk of injury if candles burn down or someone puts a knife into the \"cake\".\n\n\"Nana's Party\" was the first episode of \"Inside No. 9\" to be written, but it was shelved when BBC executives instead suggested that it worked as the first episode of a sitcom. Pemberton and Shearsmith revisited and modified the script during the writing process for \"Inside No. 9\" second series. The writers aimed for a feeling of suburban darkness reminiscent of the work of the playwright Alan Ayckbourn, while commentators compared the episode to the work of the playwright and screenwriter Mike Leigh, particularly the play \"Abigail's Party\". The story addresses themes including alcoholism, extramarital affairs, aging and social class. Television critics responded positively to \"Nana's Party\", which was praised as a typically-strong instalment of \"Inside No. 9\". Particular praise was directed towards the writing and performances, especially Skinner's performance as Angela, Ashbourne's performance as Carol and Shearsmith's performance as Pat.\n\n\"Nana's Party\" was the first episode of \"Inside No. 9\" to be written by the programme's creators Reece Shearsmith and Steve Pemberton. BBC producers felt the episode worked as the opening episode of a sitcom, but Pemberton and Shearsmith were not happy to develop the idea into its own series, given the events of the plot. As such, the script was shelved, and revisited during planning for \"Inside No. 9\" second series. A number of changes were made from the original script when the concept was revisited. For example, a paramedic was added to the opening scene in order to add a sense of danger and foreboding, and the character Angela's \"borderline OCD\" was accentuated.\n\nShearsmith said that the episode's focus on a grandmother's birthday party felt \"domestic\" and \"homely\". Pemberton, too, called it a \"domestic\" story, describing it as playing upon the classic British plot device of a family party going wrong. Shearsmith suggested that the pleasant house did give the episode the feel of a sitcom, but said that the story went somewhere \"darker\" than a typical sitcom would. With \"Nana's Party\", the writers wanted to produce something \"dark\" and \"suburban\", with Pemberton citing the playwright Alan Ayckbourn as an influence. Indeed, at the time the episode was written, Shearsmith was starring in an adaptation of Ayckbourn's play \"Absent Friends\".\n\nThe writers intended to play off the idea of a hidden character being able to hear conversations revealing secrets. An initial idea of Pemberton's was to have a large parcel on a table at the birthday party, but with Maggie—on whose birthday the episode would be set—absent. Other characters would repeatedly ask where Maggie was, until it was revealed that her head was in the parcel. This idea developed into the possibility of a hollow cake hiding a character, a device used in the final episode. For the writers, there is humour in characters spending time talking earnestly to a cake; they noted that the prop cake had features resembling a face. In the editing stage, the production team kept reintroducing the cake in order to remind viewers of its presence. The original script ended with a knife being plunged into a fake cake followed by the revelation, contrary to viewers' expectations, that no one was under it at the time; instead, the writers upped the drama in the story, making it possible that any of the characters injured. For the writers, the original plot was, in a sense, darker, as some characters got away with wrongdoing in a way they do not in the final version.\n\nAs each episode of \"Inside No. 9\" features new characters, the writers were able to attract actors who might have been unwilling to commit to an entire series. \"Nana's Party\" featured Claire Skinner as Angela, who is hosting a party. Pemberton and Shearsmith lived close to Skinner, but they had not properly met. She was one of several members of the cast of the film \"Life Is Sweet\" (others being Alison Steadman and Jane Horrocks) who have starred in \"Inside No. 9\". Skinner enjoyed the \"funny\" script and her \"nice\" character. Eve Gordon (trained at the Nottingham Television Workshop) starred as Angela's daughter Katie, and Pemberton starred as Angela's husband Jim. Pemberton and Shearsmith suggested that Pemberton's costume made him look like Mr Chow Mein, a Benny Hill character.\n\nElsie Kelly played Angela's mother Maggie, on whose birthday the episode is set. The part was not written with anyone in mind, though Pemberton already knew Kelly well from their time together on the sitcom \"Benidorm\". Lorraine Ashbourne played Angela's sister Carol, and Pat, Carol's husband, was played by Shearsmith. Carol was Pemberton's favourite character in the whole series; Shearsmith worried that an actor may not portray the character as they had hoped, but was very happy with Ashbourne's performance. Ashbourne said she was \"thrilled\" to be working with Pemberton and Shearsmith, for whom she had great admiration. She described the character of Carol as \"hilarious\", characterising her as \"sexually frustrated\" and \"sad\". To reflect Carol's alcoholism, Ashbourne swilled whiskey around her mouth before filming. Shearsmith wore a red wig to play Pat, something he had never done before. His skin-tone needed to be changed to match the hair, necessitating a white spray on his face every morning. In order not to give the impression that Pat was a thief or murderer (rather than simply a practical joker), Shearsmith was directed to chuckle while Pat set up his jokes. Christopher Whitlow plays a paramedic seen at the beginning and end of the episode. The scene featuring the paramedic at the end of the episode was longer in the final cut than had been initially intended in order to show more of the character's actions.\n\nThe second series of \"Inside No. 9\" was filmed from the end of 2014 into early 2015. \"Nana's Party\" was filmed in January, and was the final episode of the second series to be filmed. The writers saw a number of houses before selecting the one used in the episode; they wanted an open plan home to allow for easy movement between rooms. The one chosen was close to Twickenham Studios. A \"deckhouse\" was added to the house's garden; despite there already being two sheds, neither would have been visible on-screen. A new one was thus added. The executive producer Adam Tandy suggested that \"deckhouse\" would be preferable to \"shed\", as the latter term suggested the site of something awful. Scenes in a bedroom used the room mostly as the production team found it. The room featured a number of books not seen on-screen, which reminded Shearsmith of a script (in the end not used for \"Inside No. 9\" second series) of an episode set in a library. The front room had a buffet, including a prawn ring; by the third day of filming, this had begun to smell, and needed to be removed.\n\nPemberton and Shearsmith, in addition to writing and starring in \"Nana's Party\", directed the episode. This was the second episode they jointly directed in the second series after \"Cold Comfort\", their directorial debut. The pair did not know, while writing for the series, which episodes they would be directing, meaning that their writing was unlikely to be influenced by the knowledge. Pemberton and Shearsmith had always intended to try directing, and the second series of \"Inside No. 9\" offered them the opportunity. David Kerr, who had directed all of the episodes in the first series, was unable to return for the second. Guillem Morales and Dan Zeff each took on directorial duties for two episodes, while Pemberton and Shearsmith decided to direct the remaining two. Shearsmith said in an interview that the pair had considered directing episodes in which they did not appear much, but scheduling concerns left them with \"Cold Comfort\" and \"Nana's Party\"; both episodes feature the writers quite heavily.\n\n\"Nana's Party\" represented a directorial challenge insofar as Pemberton and Shearsmith were both on-screen for a relatively large amount of the episode. The pair took turns off-camera; on one day, Shearsmith acted and Pemberton watched, and the next day, the two switched; they were, however, tired, not least because it was the final episode of the series filmed. \"Nana's Party\" required more direction than \"Cold Comfort\", due in part to the larger number of actors. Pemberton and Shearsmith leaned strongly on Stephan Pehrsson, their cinematographer. While Pemberton and Shearsmith handled staging, Pehrsson handled cinematography.\n\nA paramedic is let into a house to the sounds of panic. Earlier, the fastidious Angela prepares to host a party for the 79th birthday of her mother, Maggie. Angela's daughter, Katie, heads to her room to complete her homework. When Angela moves a cake, she reveals the head of Jim, her husband. Jim plans to play a trick on Pat—a practical joker and the husband of Angela's sister, Carol (a recovering alcoholic)—by hiding under the cake. Maggie, Carol and Pat—the latter wearing a wolf mask—arrive at the house. As the three settle, Pat plugs in his mobile to charge—something Jim had asked Angela to prevent—and secretly places ice in a bucket. Carol privately drinks from a sunscreen bottle while ostensibly unblocking the toilet after her mother could not flush it. Angela is proud that the party food is from Marks's, but Carol mocks Angela's middle class affectations. Maggie wants a photograph with the food on the table, and Carol lights the cake's candles, which burn towards to the flammable fake cake—under which Jim is still hiding. Katie greets her nana and aunt, with Maggie insisting that she tell the joke from Pat's card. Panicking, Angela blows out the candles. The room clears, and Jim is left frustrated.\n\nKatie shows Maggie her tablet as the pair sit in the former's room. A visibly-drunk Carol enters and talks to Katie about the importance of having fun. Katie wants to finish her homework, but assures Carol that she would make a good mother. Downstairs, Jim persuades Angela to take up position under the table as Pat replaces the soap in the toilet. Pat joins Jim next to the table and returns a VHS; it becomes clear that Jim's apparent love for \"Countdown\" is actually a cover for his pornography habit, and Jim tries to steer the conversation away from the topic, worried that Angela will hear. Carol enters and puts on music. Pat sees Carol's sunscreen, and prepares her a drink of \"Adam's ale\". Carol aggressively flirts with Jim, who does not reciprocate. When Pat hands Carol water, she throws it in his face and he leaves. Carol confronts Jim about promises he made to her, and how this house should be hers, not Angela's. Jim remains terrified that Angela can hear the conversation.\n\nKatie and Maggie enter. Maggie talks about Pat's \"frozen willies\"—novelty ice cubes—as a distressed Jim makes her a drink, and Carol dances with the uninterested Katie. Jim pulls Carol away from Katie, but Carol hits him; when Carol talks to Katie about becoming her stepmother, Jim shouts at her. Pat stops him, and, after Carol storms out, tells Jim that \"he knows\". Katie is distressed, and interrogates Jim as Maggie plunges a knife into the cake. Jim panics, believing Angela is still under the table, but Angela enters from the kitchen, and reveals that she left to buy a real cake—the story that Jim had told to cover her apparent absence. Katie wants to talk to her mother, but chaos ensues when Maggie chokes on an ice cube, which Pat reveals contains a fake spider. Carol enters, her face blackened by Pat's fake soap, and Pat, reaching for his charging phone to call the emergency services, receives an electric shock, his hands wet from the ice bucket. Angela performs the Heimlich manoeuver on her mother; Carol kneels by Pat and shouts for help. The new cake is pushed into Jim's face by Katie, who then answers the door. The paramedic enters, then begins a striptease for Maggie to the \"Casualty\" theme. His performance, it is revealed, was Pat's present to Maggie. Later, Jim talks to an oblivious Maggie. He sees Angela and Katie come down the stairs with bags. In silence, he watches them leave as Maggie tells him the joke from Pat's birthday card.\n\nPlotlines following a birthday party in disarray are common, particularly in plays, and an episode with a similar theme was also included in the first series of \"Inside No. 9\". \"Nana's Party\" revolves around the relatively mundane problems of alcoholism, affairs and aging. Class is another theme, with Angela, Jim and Katie representing a typical middle class family, while Maggie, Carol and Pat are more working class. David Chater, writing for \"The Times\", said that \"Nana's Party\" was like \"a more twisted version\" of \"Abigail's Party\", with several critics likening the episode to a Mike Leigh drama. Critics also saw the influence of Ayckbourn's work.\n\nThe episode's action revolves around the practical joke involving the cake and, in particular, viewers' attempts to guess what has caused injury, as they know that the paramedic will be coming. Both Angela and the alcoholic Carol are \"ticking time-bomb[s]\". Angela is the central character, and is similar to a more anxious version of Sue Brockman, Skinner's character from \"Outnumbered\". She is stressed and obsessive-compulsive, but aspirational, fastidious, and dutiful. The comedy critic Bruce Dessau compared Ashbourne's characterisation of Carol to Elizabeth Taylor's characterisation in \"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?\"; as the episode progresses, Carol becomes increasingly abusive. Commentators variously described Pat as \"appalling\", \"tiresome\", an \"irritating tit\" and \"an insufferable booby\". For Chris Bennion, writing in \"The Independent\", Pat's character is more complex: \"Behind Pat's cheesy jokes and schoolboy tomfoolery lies a desperately sad and dignified man, standing by and caring for a wife whose love for him has long gone.\" Pat and Carol, for Pemberton and Shearsmith, have a more honest relationship than Jim and Angela, despite the problems in their relationship.\n\nJim is Pat's \"weary nemesis\", and a \"classic everyman\". Jim and Pat, for Gerard Gilbert of \"i\", are like \"two suburban grotesques straight out of a Mike Leigh drama\". Maggie is unaware of the chaos around her, instead distracted by the tablet—on which she plays a game somewhere between \"Clash of Clans\" and \"Minecraft\"—or retelling the birthday card joke. As a \"Middle England suburban\" comedy, \"Nana's Party\" is \"all about the depths and heartaches lurking beneath apparently happy families\". As the story progresses, the characters subvert expectations, with the irritating Pat revealed as a caring husband and the alcoholic Carol revealed as recovering from an unsuccessful affair. Pemberton and Shearsmith characterised the episode's ending as \"downbeat\" and lacking a twist, noting that \"Nana's Party\" is the only episode of the first two series of \"Inside No. 9\" in which no character dies.\n\nCritics responded positively to \"Nana's Party\", with Patrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" calling it \"another cracker\", Chater characterising it as another \"bullseye\", and Julia Raeside and John Dugdale, writing in \"The Sunday Times\", describing it as \"another perfectly judged high-wire walk: comedy and tragedy balanced evenly and artfully at all times\". Bennion called it \"a tightly wound and hugely impressive half hour\", and the freelance journalist Dan Owen called it \"another great instalment\" that \"really worked\" on its own terms.\n\nThe episode's writing was praised. For Bennion, the writers displayed their intellect, but he noted that Skinner got \"the lion's share of the good lines\". He felt the ending was \"as affecting as it is well-earned\". Raeside, in the course of a review of the whole series for theguardian.com, claimed that one of the writers' strengths is \"pulling at the loose threads of suburban life to reveal the worst of humanity just under the soft furnishings\", and that, in \"Nana's Party\", despite the viewers' assumption that there would be a \"gory\" conclusion, the \"tragedy was an altogether more gruesome punctuation to the story as Pemberton's face betrayed the total emotional collapse going on within\". Jack Seale, also writing for theguardian.com, claimed that the script was able to move \"effortlessly from funny to dark to desperately sad\". Phoebe-Jane Boyd, in a review of the episode for the entertainment website Den of Geek, wrote that the tension in \"Nana's Party\" was \"cranked up fantastically\", as the story's genre, and viewer's expectations, shift. Owen felt that the writing and cast were able to save what could have been a predictable episode, picking out Skinner as particularly compelling. Bennion also praised the cast, claiming that Skinner, Ashbourne and Kelly were strong, but that Shearsmith gave the best performance. Dessau, too, called the cast \"great\", and felt that Shearsmith played his part \"to perfection\".\n\n"}
{"id": "60759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60759", "title": "Pashtunistan", "text": "Pashtunistan\n\nPashtūnistān (; also called Pakhtūnistān, or Pathānistān, meaning the \"land of Pashtuns\") is the geographic historical region inhabited by the indigenous Pashtun people of modern-day Afghanistan and Pakistan, wherein Pashtun culture, language, and national identity have been based. Alternative names historically used for the region include \"Pashtūnkhwā\" (), \"Rōh\" (), and \"Afghānistān\" (), since at least the 3rd century CE onward. Pashtunistan borders Punjab to the east, Persian and Turkic speaking regions to the west and north, Kashmir to the northeast, and Balochistan to the south. \n\nFor administrative division in 1893, Mortimer Durand drew the Durand Line to divide Pashtunistan, fixing the limits of the spheres of influence between King Abdur Rahman Khan and British India. This porous line that runs through the centre of the Pashtun region forms the modern border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. Roughly, the Pashtun homeland stretches from areas south of the Amu River in Afghanistan to west of the Indus River in Pakistan, mainly consisting of southwestern, eastern and some northern districts of Afghanistan, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and northern Balochistan in Pakistan.\nThe two Pashtun warrior-poets Bayazid Pir Roshan and Khushal Khan Khattak assembled Pashtun armies to fight against the Mughal Empire in the 16th and 17th centuries, respectively. In those times, the eastern parts of Pashtunistan were ruled by the Mughals, while the western parts were ruled by the Persian Safavids. The Pashtun region first gained an autonomous status in 1709 when Mirwais Hotak successfully revolted against the Safavids in Loy Kandahar. The Pashtuns again achieved unity under the leadership of Ahmad Shah Durrani, founder of the Durrani dynasty, when he established the Afghan Empire in 1747. In the 19th century, however, the Afghan Empire lost large parts of its eastern territory to the Sikh and British Empires. Famous Pashtun independence activists against the rule of the British Raj include Bacha Khan, Abdul Samad Khan Achakzai, and Mirzali Khan (Faqir of Ipi). After the creation of Pakistan in 1947, Mirzali Khan and his followers refused to recognize Pakistan, and continued their war from their base at Gurwek, Waziristan, against the new state's government.\n\nThe name used for the region during the middle ages and up until the 20th century was Afghanistan. Afghanistan is a reference to this land by its ethnicity, which were the Afghans, while Pashtunistan is a reference to this land by its language. Mention of this land by the name of Afghanistan predates mention by the name of Pashtunistan, which has been mentioned by Ahmad Shah Durrani in his famous couplet, by 6th-century Indian astronomer Varahamihira, 7th-century Chinese pilgrim Hiven Tsiang, 14th-century Moroccan scholar Ibn Battuta, Mughal Emperor Babur, 16th-century historian Firishta and many others.\n\nThe Pashto name Pakhtunistan or Pashtunistan ( ) evolved originally from the Indian word \"Pathanistan\" (Hindustani: , पठानिस्तान ). The concept of Pashtunistan was inspired by the term \"Pakhtunkhwa\". British Indian leaders, including the Khudai Khidmatgar, started using the word \"Pathanistan\" to refer to the region, and later, the word \"Pashtunistan\" became more popular.\n\nThe native or indigenous people of Pashtunistan are the Pashtuns (also known as Pakhtuns, Pathans and historically as ethnic Afghans), an Iranic ethnic group. They are the largest ethnic group in Afghanistan and the second largest in Pakistan. The Pashtuns are concentrated mainly in the south and east of Afghanistan but also exist in northern and western parts of the country as a minority group. In Pakistan they are concentrated in the west and northwest, inhabiting mainly Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and northern Balochistan. In addition, communities of Pashtuns are found in other parts of Pakistan such as Sindh, Punjab, Gilgit-Baltistan and in the nation's capital, Islamabad. The main language spoken in the delineated Pashtunistan region is Pashto followed by others such as Balochi, Hindko, Gojri, and Urdu.\n\nThe Pashtuns practice \"Pashtunwali\", the indigenous culture of the Pashtuns, and this pre-Islamic identity remains significant for many Pashtuns and is one of the factors that have kept the Pashtunistan issue alive. Although the Pashtuns are politically separated by the Durand Line between Pakistan and Afghanistan, many Pashtun tribes from the FATA area and the adjacent regions of Afghanistan, tend to ignore the border and cross back and forth with relative ease to attend weddings, family functions and take part in the joint tribal councils known as \"jirgas\". Though this was common before the war on terror but after several military operations conducted in FATA, this cross border movement is checked via military and has become very less in comparison to the past.\n\nDepending on the source, the ethnic Pashtuns constitute 42-60% of the population of Afghanistan. In neighboring Pakistan they constitute 15.42 percent of the 190 million population, which includes the Hindkowans. In the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province of Pakistan, Pashto speakers constitute above 73 percent of the population as of 1998.\n\nSince the 2nd millennium BC, the region now inhabited by the native Pashtun people had been conquered by Ancient Iranian peoples, the Medes, Achaemenids, Greeks, Mauryas, Kushans, Hephthalites, Sasanians, Arab Muslims, Turks, Mughals, and others. In recent age, people of the Western world have nominally explored the area.\n\nArab Muslims arrived in the 7th century and began introducing Islam to the native Pashtun people, some of the Arabs settled in the Sulaiman Mountains and slowly became Pashtunized over time. The Pashtunistan area later fell to the Turkish Ghaznavids whose main capital was at Ghazni, with Lahore serving as the second power house. The Ghaznavid Empire was then taken over by the Ghorids from today's Ghor, Afghanistan. The army of Genghis Khan arrived in the 13th century and began destroying Persian-speaking cities in the north while the Pashtun territory was defended by the Khalji dynasty of Delhi. In the 14th and 15th century, the Timurid dynasty was in control of the nearby cities and towns, until Babur captured Kabul in 1504.\n\nDuring the Delhi Sultanate era, the region was ruled by Turko Afghan dynasties from Delhi, India. An early Pashtun nationalist was the \"Warrior-poet\" Khushal Khan Khattak, who was imprisoned by the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb for trying to incite the Pashtuns to rebel against the rule of the Mughals. However, despite sharing a common language and believing in a common ancestry, the Pashtuns first achieved unity in the 18th century. The eastern parts of \"Pashtunistan\" was ruled by the Mughal Empire, while the western parts were ruled by the Persian Safavids as their easternmost provinces. During the early 18th century, Pashtun tribes led by Mirwais Hotak successfully revolted against the Safavids in the city of Kandahar. In a chain of events, he declared Kandahar and other parts of what is now southern Afghanistan independent. By 1738 the Mughal Empire had been crushingly defeated and their capital sacked and looted by forces of a new Iranian ruler; the military genius and commander Nader Shah. Besides Persian, Turkmen, and Caucasian forces, Nader was also accompanied by the young Ahmad Shah Durrani, and 4,000 well trained Pashtun troops from what is now Afghanistan and North-west Pakistan.\n\nAfter the death of Nader Shah in 1747 and the disintegration of his massive empire, Ahmad Shah Durrani created his own large and powerful Durrani Empire, which included Pashtunistan, and most of nowadays Pakistan, among other regions. The famous couplet by Ahmad Shah Durrani describes the association the people have with the regional city of Kandahar:\n\n\"Da Dili takht herauma cheh rayad kam zama da khkule Pukhtunkhwa da ghre saroona\".\nTranslation: \"I forget the throne of Delhi when I recall the mountain peaks of my beautiful Pukhtunkhwa.\"\nThe last Afghan Empire was established in 1747 and united all the different Pashtun tribes as well as many other ethnic groups. Parts of the Pashtunistan region around Peshawar was invaded by Ranjit Singh and his Sikh army in the early part of the 19th century, but a few years later they were defeated by the British Raj, the new powerful empire which reached the Pashtunistan region from the east.\n\nFollowing the decline of the Durrani dynasty and the establishment of the new Barakzai dynasty in Afghanistan, the Pashtun domains began to shrink as they lost control over other parts of South Asia to the British, such the Punjab region and the Balochistan region. The Anglo-Afghan Wars were fought as part of the overall imperialistic Great Game that was waged between the Russian Empire and the British. Poor and landlocked, newly born Afghanistan was able to defend its territory and keep both sides at bay by using them against each other. In 1893, as part of a way for fixing the limit of their respective spheres of influence, the Durand Line Agreement was signed between Afghan \"Iron\" Amir Abdur Rahman and British Viceroy Mortimer Durand. In 1905, the North-West Frontier Province (today's Khyber Paskhtunkhwa) was created and roughly corresponded to Pashtun majority regions within the British domain. The FATA area was created to further placate the Pashtun tribesmen who never fully accepted British rule and were prone to rebellions, while the city of Peshawar was directly administered as part of a British protectorate state with full integration into the federal rule of law with the establishment of civic amenities and the construction of railway, road infrastructure as well as educational institutes to bring the region at par with the developed world.\n\nDuring World War I, the Afghan government was contacted by the Ottoman Turkey and Germany, through the Niedermayer-Hentig Mission, to join the Central Allies on behalf of the Caliph in a Jihad; some revolutionaries, tribals, and Afghan leaders including a brother of the Amir named Nasrullah Khan were in favour of the delegation and wanted the Amir to declare Jihad.\nKazim Bey carried a firman from the Khalifa in Persian. It was addressed to \"the residents of Pathanistan.\" It said that when the British were defeated, \"His Majesty the Khalifa, in agreement with allied States, will acquire guarantee for independence of the united state of Pathanistan and will provide every kind of assistance to it. Thereafter, I will not allow any interference in the country of Pathanistan.\" (Ahmad Chagharzai; 1989; pp. 138–139). However the efforts failed and the Afghan Amir Habibullah Khan maintained Afghanistan's neutrality throughout World War I (for more information see).\n\nSimilarly, during the 1942 Cripps mission, and 1946 Cabinet Mission to India, the Afghan government made repeated attempts to ensure that any debate about the independence of India must include Afghanistan's role in the future of the NWFP. The British government wavered between reassuring the Afghan to the rejection of their role and insistence that NWFP was an integral part of British India.\n\nThe Khudai Khidmatgar were a non-violent group, and Ghaffar Khan claimed to have been inspired by Mahatma Gandhi. While the Red Shirts were willing to work with the Indian National Congress from a political point of view, the Pashtuns as a people desired independence from India.\n\nIn June 1947, Mirzali Khan (Faqir of Ipi), Bacha Khan, and other Khudai Khidmatgars declared the Bannu Resolution, demanding that the Pashtuns be given a choice to have an independent state of Pashtunistan composing all Pashtun majority territories of British India, instead of being made to join the new state of Pakistan. However, the British Raj refused to comply with the demand of this resolution.\n\nThe concept of Pashtunistan has varying meanings across Pakistan and Afghanistan.\nIn Afghanistan, Pashtun nationalists look after the interests of the Pashtun ethnic group and have support only from them. They favor the ideas of \"Lōy Afghānistān\" or \"Greater Afghanistan\", and maintain an irredentist claim on the entire Pashtun-populated region. The Pashtunistan demand also served the cause of domestic Afghan politics, where several successive governments used the idea to strengthen \"Pashtun ethnic support\" for the state. This policy intensified ethno-linguistic rivalry between Pashtuns and non-Pashtuns in the country. These claims are contested in Pakistan, where Pashtun politics centres on political autonomy rather than irredentist politics.\n\nSince the late 1940s with the dissolution of British India and independence of Pakistan, some rigid Pashtun nationalists proposed merging with Afghanistan or creating Pashtunistan as a future sovereign state for the local Pashtun inhabitanits of the area. At first, Afghanistan became the only government to oppose the entry of Pakistan into the United Nations in 1947, although it was reversed a few months later. On July 26, 1949, when Afghanistan–Pakistan relations were rapidly deteriorating, a loya jirga was held in Afghanistan after a military aircraft from the Pakistan Air Force bombed a village on the Afghan side of the Durand Line. As a result of this violation, the Afghan government declared that it recognized \"neither the imaginary Durand nor any similar line\" and that all previous Durand Line agreements were void. During the 1950s to the late 1960s, Pashtuns were promoted to higher positions within the Pakistani government and military, thereby integrating Pashtuns into the Pakistani state and severely weakening secessionist sentiments to the point that by the mid-1960s, popular support for an independent Pashtunistan had all but disappeared.\nAfghanistan and Pashtun nationalists did not exploit Pakistan's vulnerability during the nation's 1965 and 1971 wars with India, and even backed Pakistan against a largely Hindu India. Further, had Pakistan been destabilised by India, nationalists would have had to fight against a much bigger country than Pakistan for their independence.\n\nIn the 1970s, the roles of Pakistan and Afghanistan reversed, despite the fresh crackdown on Baloch and Pashtun nationalists by the government of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. Meanwhile, the new republican Afghan president, Mohammed Daoud Khan, was a Pashtun nationalist, and tensions between the two countries over the Pashtunistan issue almost led to conflict. The Pakistan government decided to retaliate against the Afghan government's Pashtunistan policy by supporting Islamist opponents of the Afghan government including future Mujahidin leaders Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Ahmad Shah Massoud. This operation was remarkably successful, and by 1977 the Afghan government of Daoud Khan was willing to settle all outstanding issues in exchange for a lifting of the ban on the National Awami Party and a commitment towards provincial autonomy for Pashtuns, which was already guaranteed by Pakistan's Constitution, but stripped by the Bhutto government when the One Unit scheme was introduced.\n\nThe Pashtunistan issue is rarely mentioned anymore as a point of disagreement between Afghan and Pakistan officials – a far cry from the 1950s and 1960s when the issue was considered contentious. There are several arguments from the governments of Afghanistan and Pakistan regarding the Pashtunistan issue. These arguments sometimes overlap but can be distinctively defined. The British influence in the region of Afghanistan and Pakistan was most prominent during the late 19th century and early portion of the 20th century, when the British sought to reestablish efforts at colonization during Britain's imperial century. This British experiment was known as The Great Game, and was a subversive attempt at establishing Afghanistan as a buffer zone between British-India and the Tsardom of Russia. By seeking to accord certain terrain international legitimacy based upon British failures to assert control over the fiercely independent Pashtuns and tribes in the region, the establishment of a border that would separate British interests from tribal interests was extremely important to British foreign policy.\n\nThe British demarcation established as a result by the Durand Line was a deliberate strategy designed to divide the Pashtun territory along the border region of Afghanistan and Pakistan. The overall effect of the division was to alienate the Pashtun tribes from their neighbors as part of the British divide and rule strategy. This strategy had the ultimate effect of fostering anti-colonialist sentiment in the tribal regions, and Pashtuns as a result had a deep desire for independence and freedom from British rule.\n\nPashtuns in Pakistan make up the second largest ethnic group after Punjabis with about 16% of the population, totaling over 30 million. This figure only includes the native Pashto speaking inhabitants of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Northern Balochistan, and does not include the Pathans settled in Punjab and Sindh who make up significant numbers alongside the native communities of these two provinces. In addition, there are 1.7 million Afghan refugees of whom majority are Pashtuns. These refugees, however, are expected to leave Pakistan and settle in Afghanistan in the coming years. Three Pakistani presidents belonged to the Pashtun ethnic group. Pashtuns continue to occupy some important places in the military and politics, with the major political party \"Awami National Party\" led by Asfandyar Wali. In addition to this, some Pashtun media, music and cultural activities are based out of Pakistan, with AVT Khyber being the only Pashto TV channel in Pakistan. Pashto cinema is based out of the Pakistani city of Peshawar. The Pakistani city of Karachi is believed to host the largest concentration of Pashtuns.\n\nThere are more than 12 million Pashtuns in Afghanistan, constituting 42% of the population. Other sources say that up to 60% of Afghanistan's population is made up of ethnic Pashtuns, forming the largest ethnic group in that country. Pashto is the first official language of Afghanistan, the Afghan National Anthem is recited in Pashto language and the Pashtun dress is the national dress of Afghanistan. Since the late 19th century, the traditional Pashtunistan region has gradually expanded to the Amu River in the north. Majority of the key government positions in Afghanistan have always been held by Pashtuns. In addition, many of the non-Pashtun groups in Afghanistan have adopted the Pashtun culture and use Pashto as a second language. For example, nearly all leaders of non-Pashtun ethnic groups in Afghanistan practice Pashtunwali to some degree and are fluent in Pashto language. This includes non-Pashtun leaders such as Ahmad Shah Massoud, Ahmad Zia Massoud, Ismail Khan, Mohammed Fahim, Bismillah Khan Mohammadi, Atta Muhammad Nur, Abdul Ali Mazari, Karim Khalili, Husn Banu Ghazanfar, Muhammad Yunus Nawandish, Abdul Karim Brahui, Jamaluddin Badr as well as most other ministers, governors and officials.\n\nAfghanistan makes its claim on the Pashtun areas on the ground that it served as the Pashtun seat of power since 1709 with the rise of the Hotaki dynasty followed by the establishment of the Durrani Afghan Empire. According to historic sources, Afghan tribes did not appear in Peshawar valley until after 800 AD, when the Islamic conquest of this area took place.\nAgreements cited by the Afghan government as proof of their claim over the Pashtun tribes include Article 11 of the Anglo-Afghan Treaty of 1921, which states: \"The two contracting parties, being mutually satisfied themselves each regarding the goodwill of the other and especially regarding their benevolent intentions towards the tribes residing close to their respective boundaries, hereby undertake to inform each other of any future military operations which may appear necessary for the maintenance of order among the frontier tribes residing within their respective spheres before the commencement of such operations.\" A supplementary letter to the Anglo-Afghan Treaty of 1921 reads: \"As the conditions of the Frontier tribes of the two governments are of interest to the Government of Afghanistan. I inform you that the British government entertains feelings of goodwill towards all the Frontier tribes and has every intention of treating them generously, provided they abstain from outrages against the people of India.\"\n\nProminent 20th century proponents of the Pashtunistan cause have included Khan Abdul Wali Khan and Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan. Ghaffar Khan stated in the Pakistan Constituent Assembly in 1948 that he simply wanted \"the renaming of his province as Pakhtunistan. Like Sindh, Punjab, etc.\" Another name mentioned is Afghania where the initial \"A\" in Choudhary Rahmat Ali Khan's theory stated in the \"Now or Never\" pamphlet stands for the second letter in \"Pakistan\". However, this name has failed to capture political support in the province.\n\nThere was support, however, to rename North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) as Pakhtunkhwa (which translates as \"area of Pashtuns\"). Nasim Wali Khan (the wife of Khan Abdul Wali Khan) declared in an interview: \"I want an identity.. I want the name to change so that Pathans may be identified on the map of Pakistan...\"\n\nOn 31 March 2010, Pakistan's Constitutional Reform Committee agreed that the province be named to Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. This is now the official name for the former NWFP.\n\n"}
{"id": "30029953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30029953", "title": "Proto-Hmong–Mien language", "text": "Proto-Hmong–Mien language\n\nThe Proto-Hmong–Mien language () is the reconstructed ancestor of the Hmong–Mien languages. The time of proto-Hmong-Mien has been estimated to be about 2500 BP by Sagart, Blench, and Sanchez-Mazas and about 4243 BP by the Automated Similarity Judgment Program (ASJP). Lower-level reconstructions include Proto-Hmongic and Proto-Mienic.\n\nReconstructions of Proto-Hmong-Mien include those of Wang & Mao (1995), Ratliff (2010), and Ostapirat (2016).\n\nMartha Ratliff (2010) used 11 criterion languages for her reconstruction.\n\n\nWang & Mao (1995) base their Proto-Hmong-Mien reconstruction from the following 23 criterion Hmong-Mien languages.\n\n\nMartha Ratliff's 2010 reconstruction contains the following phonemic inventory.\n\n\nMedial consonants are *-j-, *-l-, and *-r-.\n\nProto-Hmong–Mien had the following syllable structure (Ratliff 2010:10):\nRatliff does not reconstruct vowel length for either Proto-Mienic or Proto-Hmong-Mien. Even though Mienic languages usually have vowel length, Ratliff ascribes this to areal features that were borrowed after the breakup of Proto-Mienic. Neighboring languages with vowel length include Cantonese and Zhuang.\n\nBelow are some reconstructed words roughly belonging to the semantic domains of agriculture and subsistence (Ratliff 2004; Greenhill et al. 2008; Starling 1998). Terms for domesticated animals and non-rice crops are usually shared with Chinese, while vocabulary relating to hunting, rice crops, and local plants and animals are usually not shared with Chinese.\n\nThe ethnonym Hmong is reconstructed as *hmʉŋ in Proto-Hmongic by Ratliff (2010), while Mien is reconstructed as *mjæn in Proto-Mienic. In comparison, William H. Baxter and Laurent Sagart (2014) reconstruct the Old Chinese name of the Mán 蠻 (Nanman 南蠻, or southern foreigners) as *mˤro[n].\n\nThe Proto-Hmong-Mien language shares many lexical similarities with neighboring language families, including Austroasiatic, Kra-Dai (Tai-Kadai), Austronesian, and Tibeto-Burman (Ratliff 2010). Martha Ratliff (2010:233-237) lists the following lexical resemblances between Proto-Hmong-Mien (abbreviated below as PHM) and other language families. Proto-Hmongic and Proto-Mienic are provided if the Proto-Hmong-Mien form is not reconstructed.\n\nMany lexical resemblances are found between the Hmong-Mien and Austroasiatic language families (Ratliff 2010), some of which had earlier been proposed by Haudricourt (1951).\n\n\nOther Austroasiatic parallels listed by Kosaka (2002:94) are:\n\nOstapirat (2018:116-117) lists compares the following basic vocabulary items in Hmong-Mien and Austroasiatic.\n\nFurther lexical resemblances between Hmong-Mien and Austroasiatic are listed in Hsiu (2017).\n\nMany lexical resemblances are found between the Hmong-Mien and Kra-Dai language families, although the tones often do not correspond (Ratliff 2010). Proto-Tai (abbreviated here as PT) reconstructions are from Pittayaporn (2009). Many of the Proto-Tai forms also have close parallels with Proto-Austronesian.\n\n\nKosaka (2002) lists many lexical between Kra-Dai and Hmong-Mien languages, and proposes that they form part of a larger \"Miao-Dai\" language family.\n\nRatliff notes that the Hmong-Mien numerals from 4-9 and various culture-related vocabulary have been borrowed from Tibeto-Burman. The Proto-Tibeto-Burman (abbreviated as PTB) forms provided below are from James Matisoff (2003).\n\n\nAdditionally, Paul K. Benedict (1987) notes that Proto-Hmong-Mien contain loanwords from an unknown Tibeto-Burman language or branch, which Benedict refers to as Donor Miao-Yao. Reconstructions for some numerals that Benedict (1987) reconstructed for Proto-Donor Miao-Yao are given below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6173504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6173504", "title": "R.R. Bowker", "text": "R.R. Bowker\n\nR.R. Bowker LLC (\"Bowker\") is an American limited liability company based in New Providence, New Jersey, and incorporated in Delaware. Among other things, Bowker provides bibliographic information on published works to the book trade, including publishers, booksellers, libraries, and individuals; its roots in the industry trace back to 1868. Bowker is the exclusive U.S. agent for issuing International Standard Book Numbers (ISBNs), a universal method of identifying books in print. Bowker is the publisher of Books in Print and other compilations of information about books and periodical titles. It provides supply chain services and analytical tools to the book publishing industry. Bowker is headquartered in New Providence, New Jersey, with additional operational offices in England and Australia. It is now owned by Cambridge Information Group.\n\nThe company was founded by Frederick Leypoldt, a German immigrant who worked as a bookseller and recognized the need for good bibliographic information to make the book business more efficient. He established the monthly \"Literary Bulletin,\" his first periodical, in 1868. In 1870 Leypoldt issued the first edition of his \"Annual American Catalogue\", the forerunner for \"Books In Print\". In 1872 he published the first issue of \"Publishers Weekly\", in 1873 the first \"Publishers' Uniform Trade-List Annual\" (later the \"Publishers Trade List Annual\"), and in 1876 the first issue of \"Library Journal\". In 1878 Leypoldt's company was acquired by Richard Rogers Bowker. Leypoldt and Bowker also founded two influential standard book-industry references: \"Literary Marketplace\" and \"Ulrich's Periodicals Directory\".\n\nIn 1967, the Xerox Corporation acquired the R. R. Bowker company, and then, in 1985, sold it to Reed International (now Reed Elsevier). That same year, in 1985, \"Publishers Weekly\"—after 113 years as a part of R.R. Bowker—was transferred to the Cahners Publishing Company. In 2001, Cambridge Information Group acquired Bowker. In 2007, Cambridge Information Group merged Cambridge Scientific Abstracts with ProQuest Information and Learning to form ProQuest LLC, a privately held limited liability company based in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and incorporated in Delaware. R. R. Bowker LLC was repositioned as an affiliate of ProQuest.\n\n\nBowker is the United States provider of International Standard Book Numbers (ISBNs), a code for identifying commercial books devised by Gordon Foster in 1967. An ISBN is currently placed on a book to uniquely identify it. ISBNs are available one at a time and in blocks up to 100,000 for a set fee. ISBNs may be purchased and maintained at Bowker's My Identifiers website. Many countries, including the UK, Italy, Germany, Spain, to name a few, charge for ISBNs. Canada and Mexico provide ISBNs free of charge as their ISBN agencies are government funded. Bowker USA charges $125 for one ISBN and offers substantial discounts on volume purchases.\n\n\n\nHACKED\n\nR.R. Bowker said it has learned that unauthorized charges were occurring on cards after they were legitimately used on its www[.]myidentifiers[.]com website, which is responsible for issuing ISBNs. The company said its preliminary investigation has found unauthorized code that was added to the checkout page on the MyIdentifiers site. The investigation is looking to confirm that the breach took place from 01 MAY 2018 through 23 OCT 2018.\n"}
{"id": "1602071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1602071", "title": "Screencast", "text": "Screencast\n\nA screencast is a digital recording of computer screen output, also known as a \"video screen capture\", often containing audio narration. The term \"screencast\" compares with the related term \"screenshot\"; whereas screenshot generates a single picture of a computer screen, a screencast is essentially a movie of the changes over time that a user sees on a computer screen, enhanced with audio narration.\n\nIn 2004, columnist Jon Udell invited readers of his blog to propose names for the emerging genre. Udell selected the term \"screencast\", which was proposed by both Joseph McDonald and Deeje Cooley.\n\nThe terms \"screencast\" and \"Screencam\" are often used interchangeably, due to the market influence of ScreenCam as a screencasting product of the early 1990s. ScreenCam, however, is a federal trademark in the United States, whereas screencast is not trademarked and has established use in publications as part of Internet and Computing vernacular.\n\nScreencasts can help demonstrate and teach the use of software features. Creating a screencast helps software developers show off their work. Educators may also use screencasts as another means of integrating technology into the curriculum. Students can record video and audio as they demonstrate the proper procedure to solve a problem on an interactive whiteboard.\n\nScreencasts are useful tools for ordinary software users as well: They help filing report bugs in which the screencasts take the place of potentially unclear written explanations; they help showing others how a given task is accomplished in a specific software environment.\n\nOrganizers of seminars may choose to routinely record complete seminars and make them available to all attendees for future reference and/or sell these recordings to people who cannot afford the fee of the live seminar or do not have the time to attend it. This will generate an additional revenue stream for the organizers and makes the knowledge available to a broader audience.\n\nThis strategy of recording seminars is already widely used in fields where using a simple video camera or audio recorder is insufficient to make a useful recording of a seminar. Computer-related seminars need high quality and easily readable recordings of screen contents which is usually not achieved by a video camera that records the desktop.\n\nIn classrooms, teachers and students can use this tool to create videos to explain content, vocabulary, etc. Videos can make class time more productive for both teachers and students. Screencasts may increase student engagement and achievement and also provide more time in which students can work collaboratively in groups, so screencasts help them to think through cooperative learning.\n\nIn addition, screencasts allow students to move at their own pace since they can pause or review content anytime and anywhere. Screencasts are excellent for those learners who just need an oral as well as a visual explanation of the content presented.\n\nMost trial versions of a screencasting programs often apply a watermark automatically, encouraging users to purchase the full version in order to remove it.\n\nAn alternative solution for capturing a screencast is the use of a hardware RGB or DVI frame grabber card. This approach places the burden of the recording and compression process on a machine separate from the one generating the visual material being\ncaptured.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9580049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9580049", "title": "Seven Social Sins", "text": "Seven Social Sins\n\nSeven Social Sins is a list that was first uttered in a sermon delivered in Westminster Abbey on March 20, 1925 by an Anglican priest named Frederick Lewis Donaldson. He originally referred to it as the \"7 Deadly Social Evils\". It's a common misconception that Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was the origin of this list as he published the same list in his weekly newspaper \"Young India\" on October 22, 1925. Later he gave this same list to his grandson, Arun Gandhi, written on a piece of paper on their final day together shortly before his assassination. The Seven Sins are:\n\n\nBefore Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi published the list in his weekly newspaper \"Young India\" on October 22, 1925, an almost identical list had been published six months earlier in England in a sermon at Westminster Abbey by Fredrick Lewis Donaldson.\nGandhi wrote that a correspondent whom he called a \"fair friend\" had sent the list: \"The... fair friend wants readers of \"Young India\" to know, if they do not already, the following seven social sins,\" (the list was then provided). After the list, Gandhi wrote that \"Naturally, the friend does not want the readers to know these things merely through the intellect but to know them through the heart so as to avoid them.\" This was the entirety of Gandhi's commentary on the list when he first published it.\n\nIn the decades since its first publication, the list has been widely cited and discussed.\n\nSome books have focused on the seven sins or been structured around them:\n\n\nMany books have discussed the sins more briefly:\n\n\n\n\n\nThey have also been anthologized:\n\n\nRegarding \"politics without principle\", Gandhi said having politics without truth(s) to justly dictate the action creates chaos, which ultimately leads to violence. Gandhi called these missteps \"passive violence,\" ‘which fuels the active violence of crime, rebellion, and war.’ He said, \"We could work 'til doomsday to achieve peace and would get nowhere as long as we ignore passive violence in our world.\"\n\nPolitics is literally defined as, \"The struggle in any group for power that will give one or more persons the ability to make decisions for the larger group.\"\n\nMohandas Gandhi defined principle as, \"the expression of perfection, and as imperfect beings like us cannot practice perfection, we devise every moment limits of its compromise in practice.\" \n\nThere are many different types of regimes in the world whose politics differ. Based on Gandhi’s Blunder Politics without Principle, a regime type might be more of a root of violence than another because one regime has more principle than the other. Regimes have different types of fighting and aggression tactics, each desiring different outcomes.\n\nThis difference affects the actions taken by political heads in countries across the globe. Gandhi wrote, \"An unjust law is itself a species of violence.\" The aggression of one country on another may be rooted in the government's creation of an unjust law. For example, a war of irredentism fought for one state to reclaim territory that was lost due to a law promoting ethnic cleansing.\n\nPrinciple in one country could easily be a crime in another. This difference leads one to believe that the root of violence is inevitably present somewhere in the world. “Politics without Principle” will inevitably take place throughout time.\n\nThis list grew from Gandhi's search for the roots of violence. He called these \"acts of passive violence\". Preventing these is the best way to prevent oneself or one's society from reaching a point of violence, according to Gandhi.\n\nTo this list, Arun Gandhi added an eighth blunder, \"rights without responsibilities\". According to Arun Gandhi, the idea behind the first blunder originates from the feudal practice of Zamindari. He also suggests that the first and the second blunders are interrelated.\n\nMore recently Mohandas Gandhi's list of negative qualities has also been described by his grandson as \"Seven Blunders of the World\". Examples of description under this heading include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3461563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3461563", "title": "Social movement theory", "text": "Social movement theory\n\nSocial movement theory is an interdisciplinary study within the social sciences that generally seeks to explain why social mobilization occurs, the forms under which it manifests, as well as potential social, cultural, and political consequences. \n\nSociologists during the early and middle-1900s thought that movements were random occurrences of individuals who were trying to emotionally react to situations outside their control. Or, as the \"mass society\" hypothesis suggested, movement participants were those who were not fully integrated into society. These psychologically-based theories have largely been rejected by present-day sociologists and political scientists, although many still make a case for the importance (although not centrality) of emotions. See the work of Gustav LeBon, Herbert Blumer, William Kornhauser, and Neil Smelser.\n\nPeople are driven into movements out of a sense of deprivation or inequality, particularly (1) in relation to others or (2) in relation to their expectations. In the first view, participants see others who have more power, economic resources, or status, and thus try to acquire these same things for themselves. In the second view, people are most likely to rebel when a consistently improving situation (especially an improving economy) stops and makes a turn for the worse. At this point, people will join movements because their expectations will have outgrown their actual material situation (also called the \"J-Curve theory\"). See the work of James Davies, Ted Gurr, and Denton Morrison.\n\nIndividuals are rational actors who strategically weigh the costs and benefits of alternative courses of action and choose that course of action which is most likely to maximize their utility. The primary research problem from this perspective is the collective action problem, or why rational individuals would choose to join in collective action if they benefit from its acquisition even if they do not participate. See the work of Mancur Olson, Mark Lichbach, and Dennis Chong. In \"Theories of Political Protest and Social Movements\", Karl-Dieter Opp incorporates a number of cultural concepts in his version of rational choice theory, as well as showing that several other approaches surreptitiously rely on rational-choice assumptions without admitting it.\n\nSocial movements need organizations first and foremost. Organizations can acquire and then deploy resources to achieve their well-defined goals. Some versions of this theory see movements operate similar to capitalist enterprises that make efficient use of available resources. Scholars have suggested a typology of five types of resources:\n\nCertain political contexts should be conducive (or representative) for potential social movement activity. These climates may [dis]favor specific social movements or general social movement activity; the climate may be signaled to potential activists and/or structurally allowing for the possibility of social movement activity (matters of legality); and the political opportunities may be realized through political concessions, social movement participation, or social movement organizational founding. Opportunities may include:\n\nCertain claims activists make on behalf of their social movement \"resonate\" with audiences including media, elites, sympathetic allies, and potential recruits. Successful frames draw upon shared cultural understandings (e.g. rights, morality). This perspective is firmly rooted in a social constructivist ontology. See the work of Robert Benford and David A. Snow. Over the last decade, political opportunity theorists have partially appropriated the framing perspective. It is called political theory of a social movement\n\nThis body of work focuses on assessing the impact that a social movement has on society, and what factors might have led to those impacts. The effects of a social movement can resonate on individuals, institutions, cultures, or political systems. While political impacts have been studied the most, effects on other levels can be at least as important. Because Impact Theory has many methodological issues, it is the least studied of the major branches of Social Movement Theory. Nevertheless, it has sparked debates on the efficacy of violence, the importance of elite and political allies, and the agency of popular movements in general.\n\nThis European-influenced group of theories argue that movements today are categorically different from the ones in the past. Instead of labor movements engaged in class conflict, present-day movements (such as anti-war, environmental, civil rights, feminist, etc.) are engaged in social and political conflict (see Alain Touraine). The motivations for movement participation is a form of post-material politics and newly created identities, particularly those from the \"new middle class\". Also, see the work of Ronald Inglehart, Jürgen Habermas, Alberto Melucci, and Steve Buechler. This line of research has stimulated an enduring emphasis on identity even among prominent American scholars like Charles Tilly.\n\nIn the late 1990s two long books summarized the cultural turn in social-movement studies, Alberto Melucci's \"Challenging Codes\" and James M. Jasper's \"The Art of Moral Protest\". Melucci focused on the creation of collective identities as the purpose of social movements, especially the \"new social movements\", whereas Jasper argued that movements provide participants with a chance to elaborate and articulate their moral intuitions and principles. Both recognized the importance of emotions in social movements, although Jasper developed this idea more systematically. Along with Jeff Goodwin and Francesca Polletta, Jasper organized a conference in New York in 1999 that helped put emotions on the intellectual agenda for many scholars of protest and movements. He has continued to write about the emotional dynamics of protest in the years since.\n\nIn 1999, Goodwin and Jasper published a critique of the then-dominant political opportunity paradigm, using Jasper’s cultural approach to show that political opportunity was too structural as a concept, leaving out meanings, emotions, and agency. Charles Tilly and a number of other scholars responded, often vituperatively.\n\nIn \"The Art of Moral Protest\" Jasper also argued that strategic interaction had an important logic that was independent of both culture and structure, and in 2006 he followed up on this claim with \"Getting Your Way: Strategic Dilemmas in Real Life\", which developed a vocabulary for studying strategic engagement in a cultural, emotional, and agentic way. By then, his theory of action had moved closer to pragmatism and symbolic interactionism. In the same period, Wisconsin social theorist Mustafa Emirbayer had begun writing in a similar fashion about emotions and social movements, but more explicitly deriving his ideas from the history of sociological thought. In France, Daniel Cefaï arrived at similar conclusions in \"Pourquoi se mobilise-t-on?\", a sweeping history and synthesis of thought on collective action and social movements.\n"}
{"id": "2041117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2041117", "title": "Social networking service", "text": "Social networking service\n\nA social networking service (also social networking site, or SNS or social media) is an online platform which people use to build social networks or social relations with other people who share similar personal or career interests, activities, backgrounds or real-life connections. \n\nThe social networks are distributed across various computer networks. The social networks are inherently computer networks, linking people, organization, and knowledge. Social networking services vary in format and the number of features. They can incorporate a range of new information and communication tools, operating on desktops and on laptops, on mobile devices such as tablet computers and smartphones. They may feature digital photo/video/sharing and \"web logging\" diary entries online (blogging). Online community services are sometimes considered social-network services by programmers and users, though in a broader sense, a social-network service usually provides an individual-centered service whereas online community services are group-centered. Defined as \"websites that facilitate the building of a network of contacts in order to exchange various types of content online,\" social networking sites provide a space for interaction to continue beyond in person interactions. These computer mediated interactions link members of various networks and may help to both maintain and develop new social ties.\n\nSocial networking sites allow users to share ideas, digital photos and videos, posts, and to inform others about online or real-world activities and events with people in their network. While in-person social networking – such as gathering in a village market to talk about events – has existed since the earliest development of towns, the Web enables people to connect with others who live in different locations, ranging from across a city to across the world. Depending on the social media platform, members may be able to contact any other member. In other cases, members can contact anyone they have a connection to, and subsequently anyone that contact has a connection to, and so on. The success of social networking services can be seen in their dominance in society today, with Facebook having a massive 2.13 billion active monthly users and an average of 1.4 billion daily active users in 2017. LinkedIn, a career-oriented social-networking service, generally requires that a member personally know another member in real life before they contact them online. Some services require members to have a preexisting connection to contact other members.\n\nThe main types of social networking services contain category places (such as age or occupation or religion), means to connect with friends (usually with self-description pages), and a recommendation system linked to trust. One can categorize social-network services into three types:\n\n\nThere have been attempts to standardize these services to avoid the need to duplicate entries of friends and interests (see the FOAF standard). A study reveals that India recorded world's largest growth in terms of social media users in 2013.\nA 2013 survey found that 73% of U.S. adults use social-networking sites.\n\nThere is a variety of social networking services available online. However, most incorporate common features:\n\n\nThe variety and evolving range of stand-alone and built-in social networking services in the online space introduces a challenge of definition. Furthermore, the idea that these services are defined by their ability to bring people together provides too broad a definition. Such a broad definition would suggest that the telegraph and telephone were social networking services – not the Internet technologies scholars are intending to describe. The terminology is also unclear, with some referring to social networking services as social media.\n\nA recent attempt at providing a clear definition reviewed the prominent literature in the area and identified four commonalities unique to current social networking services:\n\nThe potential for computer networking to facilitate newly improved forms of computer-mediated social interaction was suggested early on. Efforts to support social networks via computer-mediated communication were made in many early online services, including Usenet, ARPANET, LISTSERV, and bulletin board services (BBS). Many prototypical features of social networking sites were also present in online services such as America Online, Prodigy, CompuServe, ChatNet, and The WELL.\n\nEarly social networking on the World Wide Web began in the form of generalized online communities such as Theglobe.com (1995), Geocities (1994) and Tripod.com (1995). Many of these early communities focused on bringing people together to interact with each other through chat rooms, and encouraged users to share personal information and ideas via personal webpages by providing easy-to-use publishing tools and free or inexpensive webspace. Some communities – such as Classmates.com – took a different approach by simply having people link to each other via email addresses. PlanetAll started in 1996.\n\nIn the late 1990s, user profiles became a central feature of social networking sites, allowing users to compile lists of \"friends\" and search for other users with similar interests. New social networking methods were developed by the end of the 1990s, and many sites began to develop more advanced features for users to find and manage friends. Open Diary, a community for online diarists, invented both friends-only content and the reader comment, two features of social networks important to user interaction.\n\nThis newer generation of social networking sites began to flourish with the emergence of SixDegrees.com in 1997, followed by Open Diary in 1998, Mixi in 1999, Makeoutclub in 2000, Hub Culture and Friendster in 2002, and soon became part of the Internet mainstream. However, thanks to the nation's high Internet penetration rate, the first mass social networking site was the South Korean service, Cyworld, launched as a blog-based site in 1999 and social networking features added in 2001. It also became one of the first companies to profit from the sale of virtual goods. Friendster was followed by MySpace and LinkedIn a year later, and eventually Bebo. Friendster became very popular in the Pacific Islands. Orkut became the first popular social networking service in Brazil (although most of its very first users were from the United States) and quickly grew in popularity in India (Madhavan, 2007). Attesting to the rapid increase in social networking sites' popularity, by 2005, it was reported that Myspace was getting more page views than Google. Facebook, launched in 2004, became the largest social networking site in the world in early 2009. Facebook was first introduced as a Harvard social networking site, expanding to other universities and eventually, anyone. The term \"social media\" was introduced and soon became widespread.\n\nWeb-based social networking services make it possible to connect people who share interests and activities across political, economic, and geographic borders. Through e-mail and instant messaging, online communities are created where a gift economy and reciprocal altruism are encouraged through cooperation. Information is suited to a gift economy, as information is a nonrival good and can be gifted at practically no cost. Scholars have noted that the term \"social\" cannot account for technological features of the social network platforms alone. Hence, the level of network sociability should determine by the actual performances of its users. According to the communication theory of uses and gratifications, an increasing number of individuals are looking to the Internet and social media to fulfill cognitive, affective, personal integrative, social integrative, and tension free needs. With Internet technology as a supplement to fulfill needs, it is in turn affecting every day life, including relationships, school, church, entertainment, and family. Companies are using social media as a way to learn about potential employees' personalities and behavior. In numerous situations a candidate who might otherwise have been hired has been rejected due to offensive or otherwise unseemly photos or comments posted to social networks or appearing on a newsfeed.\n\nFacebook and other social networking tools are increasingly the aim of scholarly research. Scholars in many fields have begun to investigate the impact of social networking sites, investigating how such sites may play into issues of identity, privacy,\nsocial capital, youth culture, and education. Research has also suggested that individuals add offline friends on Facebook to maintain contact and often this blurs the lines between work and home lives. According to a study in 2015, 63% of the users of Facebook or Twitter in the USA consider these networks to be their main source of news, with entertainment news being the most seen. In the times of breaking news, Twitter users are more likely to stay invested in the story. In some cases when the news story is more political, users may be more likely to voice their opinion on a linked Facebook story with a comment or like, while Twitter users will just follow the sites feed and/ or retweet the article.\n\nA 2015 study shows that 85% of people aged 18 to 34 use social networking sites for their purchase decision making. While over 65% of people aged 55 and over rely on word of mouth. Several websites are beginning to tap into the power of the social networking model for philanthropy. Such models provide a means for connecting otherwise fragmented industries and small organizations without the resources to reach a broader audience with interested users. Social networks are providing a different way for individuals to communicate digitally. These communities of hypertexts allow for the sharing of information and ideas, an old concept placed in a digital environment. In 2011, HCL Technologies conducted research that showed that 50% of British employers had banned the use of social networking sites/services during office hours.\n\nResearch has provided us with mixed results as to whether or not a person's involvement in social networking can affect their feelings of loneliness. Studies have indicated that how a person chooses to use social networking can change their feelings of loneliness in either a negative or positive way. Some companies with mobile workers have encouraged their workers to use social networking to feel connected, educators are using it to keep connected with their students and individuals are benefiting from social networking to keep connect with already close relationships that they've developed under circumstances that would otherwise make it difficult to do so. Each social networking user is able to create a community that centers around a personal identity they choose to create online. In his book \"Digital Identities: Creating and Communicating the Online Self\", Rob Cover argues that social networking's foundation in Web 2.0, high-speed networking shifts online representation to one which is both visual and relational to other people, complexifying the identity process for younger people and creating new forms of anxiety. In 2016, news reports stated that excessive usage of SNS sites may be associated with an increase in the rates of depression, to almost triple the rate for non-SNS users. Experts worldwide have said that 2030 people who use SNS more have higher levels of depression than those who use SNS less. At least one study went as far as to conclude that the negative effects of Facebook usage are equal to or greater than the positive effects of face-to-face interactions.\n\nAccording to a recent article from \"Computers in Human Behavior\", Facebook has also been shown to lead to issues of social comparison. Users are able to select which photos and status updates to post, allowing them to portray their lives in acclamatory manners. These updates can lead to other users feeling like their lives are inferior by comparison. Users may feel especially inclined to compare themselves to other users with whom they share similar characteristics or lifestyles, leading to a fairer comparison. Motives for these comparisons can be associated with the goals of improving oneself by looking at profiles of people who one feels are superior, especially when their lifestyle is similar and possible. One can also self-compare to make oneself feel superior to others by looking at the profiles of users who one believes to be worser off. However, a study by the Harvard Business Review shows that these goals often lead to negative consequences, as use of Facebook has been linked with lower levels of well-being; mental health has been shown to decrease due to the use of Facebook.\"Computers in Human Behavior\" emphasizes that these feelings of poor mental health have been suggested to cause people to take time off from their Facebook accounts; this action is called “Facebook Fatigue” and has been common in recent years.\n\nAccording to Boyd and Ellison's (2007) article, \"Why Youth (Heart) Social Network Sites: The Role of Networked Publics in Teenage Social Life\", social networking sites share a variety of technical features that allow individuals to: construct a public/semi-public profile, articulate a list of other users that they share a connection with, and view their list of connections within the system. The most basic of these are visible profiles with a list of \"friends\" who are also users of the site. In an article entitled \"Social Network Sites: Definition, History, and Scholarship,\" Boyd and Ellison adopt Sunden's (2003) description of profiles as unique pages where one can \"type oneself into being\". A profile is generated from answers to questions, such as age, location, interests, etc. Some sites allow users to upload pictures, add multimedia content or modify the look and feel of the profile. Others, e.g., Facebook, allow users to enhance their profile by adding modules or \"Applications\". Many sites allow users to post blog entries, search for others with similar interests and compile and share lists of contacts. User profiles often have a section dedicated to comments from friends and other users. To protect user privacy, social networks typically have controls that allow users to choose who can view their profile, contact them, add them to their list of contacts, and so on.\n\nThere is a trend towards more interoperability between social networks led by technologies such as OpenID and OpenSocial. In most mobile communities, mobile phone users can now create their own profiles, make friends, participate in chat rooms, create chat rooms, hold private conversations, share photos and videos, and share blogs by using their mobile phone. Some companies provide wireless services that allow their customers to build their own mobile community and brand it; one of the most popular wireless services for social networking in North America and Nepal is Facebook Mobile.\n\nWhile the popularity of social networking consistently rises, new uses for the technology are frequently being observed. Today's technologically savvy population requires convenient solutions to their daily needs. At the forefront of emerging trends in social networking sites is the concept of \"real-time web\" and \"location-based\". Real-time allows users to contribute contents, which is then broadcast as it is being uploaded—the concept is analogous to live radio and television broadcasts. Twitter set the trend for \"real-time\" services, wherein users can broadcast to the world what they are doing, or what is on their minds within a 140-character limit. Facebook followed suit with their \"Live Feed\" where users' activities are streamed as soon as it happens. While Twitter focuses on words, Clixtr, another real-time service, focuses on group photo sharing wherein users can update their photo streams with photos while at an event. Facebook, however, remains the largest photo sharing site—Facebook application and photo aggregator Pixable estimates that Facebook will have 100 billion photos by Summer 2012. In April 2012, the image-based social media network Pinterest had become the third largest social network in the United States.\n\nCompanies have begun to merge business technologies and solutions, such as cloud computing, with social networking concepts. Instead of connecting individuals based on social interest, companies are developing interactive communities that connect individuals based on shared business needs or experiences. Many provide specialized networking tools and applications that can be accessed via their websites, such as LinkedIn. Others companies, such as Monster.com, have been steadily developing a more \"socialized\" feel to their career center sites to harness some of the power of social networking sites. These more business related sites have their own nomenclature for the most part but the most common naming conventions are \"Vocational Networking Sites\" or \"Vocational Media Networks\", with the former more closely tied to individual networking relationships based on social networking principles.\n\nFoursquare gained popularity as it allowed for users to check into places that they are frequenting at that moment. Gowalla is another such service that functions in much the same way that Foursquare does, leveraging the GPS in phones to create a location-based user experience. Clixtr, though in the real-time space, is also a location-based social networking site, since events created by users are automatically geotagged, and users can view events occurring nearby through the Clixtr iPhone app. Recently, Yelp announced its entrance into the location-based social networking space through check-ins with their mobile app; whether or not this becomes detrimental to Foursquare or Gowalla is yet to be seen, as it is still considered a new space in the Internet technology industry.\n\nOne popular use for this new technology is social networking between businesses. Companies have found that social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter are great ways to build their brand image. According to Jody Nimetz, author of Marketing Jive, there are five major uses for businesses and social media: to create brand awareness, as an online reputation management tool, for recruiting, to learn about new technologies and competitors, and as a lead generation tool to intercept potential prospects. These companies are able to drive traffic to their own online sites while encouraging their consumers and clients to have discussions on how to improve or change products or services. As of September 2013, 71% of online adults use Facebook, 17% use Instagram, 21% use Pinterest, and 22% use LinkedIn.\n\nIn 2012, it was reported that in the past few years, the niche social network has steadily grown in popularity, thanks to better levels of user interaction and engagement. In 2012, a survey by Reuters and research firm Ipsos\nfound that one in three users were getting bored with Facebook and in 2014 the GlobalWebIndex found that this figured had risen to almost 50%. The niche social network offers a specialized space that's designed to appeal to a very specific market with a clearly defined set of needs. Where once the streams of social minutia on networks such as Facebook and Twitter were the ultimate in online voyeurism, now users are looking for connections, community and shared experiences. Social networks that tap directly into specific activities, hobbies, tastes and lifestyles are seeing a consistent rise in popularity. Niche social networks such as Fishbrain for fishing and Strava for cycling. These social platforms offer brands a rich space in which to engage with their target market and build awareness.\n\nOne other use that is being discussed is the use of social networks in the science communities. Julia Porter Liebeskind et al. have published a study on how new biotechnology firms are using social networking sites to share exchanges in scientific knowledge. They state in their study that by sharing information and knowledge with one another, they are able to \"increase both their learning and their flexibility in ways that would not be possible within a self-contained hierarchical organization\". Social networking is allowing scientific groups to expand their knowledge base and share ideas, and without these new means of communicating their theories might become \"isolated and irrelevant\". Researchers use social networks frequently to maintain and develop professional relationships. They are interested in consolidating social ties and professional contact, keeping in touch with friends and colleagues and seeing what their own contacts are doing. This can be related to their need to keep updated on the activities and events of their friends and colleagues in order to establish collaborations on common fields of interest and knowledge sharing.\nSocial networks are used also to communicate scientists research results and as a public communication tool and to connect people who share the same professional interests, their benefits can vary according to the discipline. The most interesting aspects of social networks for professional purposes are their potentialities in terms of dissemination of information and the ability to reach and multiply professional contacts exponentially. Social networks like Academia.edu, LinkedIn, Facebook, and ResearchGate give the possibility to join professional groups and pages, to share papers and results, publicize events, to discuss issues and create debates. Academia.edu is extensively used by researchers, where they follow a combination of social networking and scholarly norms. ResearchGate is also widely used by researchers, especially to disseminate and discuss their publications, where it seems to attract an audience that it wider than just other scientists. The usage of Research Gate and Academia in different academic communities has increasingly been studied in recent years.\n\nThe advent of social networking platforms may also be impacting the way(s) in which learners engage with technology in general. For a number of years, Prensky's (2001) dichotomy between Digital Natives and Digital Immigrants has been considered a relatively accurate representation of the ease with which people of a certain age range—in particular those born before and after 1980—use technology. Prensky's theory has been largely disproved, however, and not least on account of the burgeoning popularity of social networking sites and other metaphors such as White and Le Cornu's \"Visitors\" and \"Residents\" (2011) are greater currency. The use of online social networks by school libraries is also increasingly prevalent and they are being used to communicate with potential library users, as well as extending the services provided by individual school libraries. Social networks and their educational uses are of interest to many researchers. According to Livingstone and Brake (2010), \"Social networking sites, like much else on the Internet, represent a moving target for researchers and policy makers.\" Pew Research Center project, called Pew Internet, did a USA-wide survey in 2009 and in 2010 February published that 47% of American adults use a social networking website. Same survey found that 73% of online teenagers use SNS, which is an increase from 65% in 2008, 55% in 2006. Recent studies have shown that social network services provide opportunities within professional education, curriculum education, and learning. However, there are constraints in this area. Researches, especially in Africa, have disclosed that the use of social networks among students have been known to negatively affect their academic life. This is buttressed by the fact that their use constitutes distractions, as well as that the students tend to invest a good deal of time in the use of such technologies.\n\nAlbayrak and Yildirim (2015) examined the educational use of social networking sites. They investigated students' involvement in Facebook as a Course Management System (CMS) and the findings of their study support that Facebook as a CMS has the potential to increase student involvement in discussions and out-of-class communication among instructors and students.\n\nProfessional use of social networking services refers to the employment of a network site to connect with other professionals within a given field of interest. SNSs like LinkedIn, a social networking website geared towards companies and industry professionals looking to make new business contacts or keep in touch with previous co-workers, affiliates, and clients. Not only does LinkedIn provide a professional social use, but it also encourages people to inject their personality into their profile–making it more personal than a resume. Other network sites are now being used in this manner, Twitter has become [a] mainstay for professional development as well as promotion and online SNSs support both the maintenance of existing social ties and the formation of new connections. Much of the early research on online communities assume that individuals using these systems would be connecting with others outside their preexisting social group or location, liberating them to form communities around shared interests, as opposed to shared geography. Other researchers have suggested that the professional use of network sites produce \"social capital\". For individuals, social capital allows a person to draw on resources from other members of the networks to which he or she belongs. These resources can take the form of useful information, personal relationships, or the capacity to organize groups. As well, networks within these services also can be established or built by joining special interest groups that others have made, or creating one and asking others to join.\n\nAccording to Doering, Beach and O'Brien, a future English curriculum needs to recognize a major shift in how adolescents are communicating with each other. Curriculum uses of social networking services also can include sharing curriculum-related resources. Educators tap into user-generated content to find and discuss curriculum-related content for students. Responding to the popularity of social networking services among many students, teachers are increasingly using social networks to supplement teaching and learning in traditional classroom environments as they can provide new opportunities for enriching existing curriculum through creative, authentic and flexible, non-linear learning experiences. Some social networks, such as English, baby! and LiveMocha, are explicitly education-focused and couple instructional content with an educational peer environment. The new Web 2.0 technologies built into most social networking services promote conferencing, interaction, creation, research on a global scale, enabling educators to share, remix, and repurpose curriculum resources. In short, social networking services can become research networks as well as learning networks.\n\nEducators and advocates of new digital literacies are confident that social networking encourages the development of transferable, technical, and social skills of value in formal and informal learning. In a formal learning environment, goals or objectives are determined by an outside department or agency. Tweeting, instant messaging, or blogging enhances student involvement. Students who would not normally participate in class are more apt to partake through social network services. Networking allows participants the opportunity for just-in-time learning and higher levels of engagement. The use of SNSs allow educators to enhance the prescribed curriculum. When learning experiences are infused into a website students utilize everyday for fun, students realize that learning can and should be a part of everyday life. It does not have to be separate and unattached.\nInformal learning consists of the learner setting the goals and objectives. It has been claimed that media no longer just influence human culture; they are human culture. With such a high number of users between the ages of 13–18, a number of skills are developed. Participants hone technical skills in choosing to navigate through social networking services. This includes elementary items such as sending an instant message or updating a status. The development of new media skills are paramount in helping youth navigate the digital world with confidence.\nSocial networking services foster learning through what Jenkins (2006) describes as a \"participatory culture\". A participatory culture consists of a space that allows engagement, sharing, mentoring, and an opportunity for social interaction. Participants of social network services avail of this opportunity. Informal learning, in the forms of participatory and social learning online, is an excellent tool for teachers to sneak in material and ideas that students will identify with and therefore, in a secondary manner, students will learn skills that would normally be taught in a formal setting in the more interesting and engaging environment of social learning. Sites like Twitter provide students with the opportunity to converse and collaborate with others in real time.\nSocial networking services provide a virtual \"space\" for learners. James Gee (2004) suggests that affinity spaces instantiate participation, collaboration, distribution, dispersion of expertise, and relatedness. Registered users share and search for knowledge which contributes to informal learning.\n\nIn the past, social networking services were viewed as a distraction and offered no educational benefit. Blocking these social networks was a form of protection for students against wasting time, bullying, and invasions of privacy. In an educational setting, Facebook, for example, is seen by many instructors and educators as a frivolous, time-wasting distraction from schoolwork, and it is not uncommon to be banned in junior high or high school computer labs. Cyberbullying has become an issue of concern with social networking services. According to the UK Children Go Online survey of 9- to 19-year-olds, it was found that a third have received bullying comments online. To avoid this problem, many school districts/boards have blocked access to social networking services such as Facebook, MySpace, and Twitter within the school environment. Social networking services often include a lot of personal information posted publicly, and many believe that sharing personal information is a window into privacy theft. Schools have taken action to protect students from this. It is believed that this outpouring of identifiable information and the easy communication vehicle that social networking services opens the door to sexual predators, cyberbullying, and cyberstalking. In contrast, however, 70% of social media using teens and 85% of adults believe that people are mostly kind to one another on social network sites.\nRecent research suggests that there has been a shift in blocking the use of social networking services. In many cases, the opposite is occurring as the potential of online networking services is being realized. It has been suggested that if schools block them [social networking services], they are preventing students from learning the skills they need. Banning social networking [...] is not only inappropriate but also borderline irresponsible when it comes to providing the best educational experiences for students. Schools and school districts have the option of educating safe media usage as well as incorporating digital media into the classroom experience, thus preparing students for the literacy they will encounter in the future.\n\nA cyberpsychology research study conducted by Australian researchers demonstrated that a number of positive psychological outcomes are related to Facebook use. These researchers established that people can derive a sense of social connectedness and belongingness in the online environment. Importantly, this online social connectedness was associated with lower levels of depression and anxiety, and greater levels of subjective well-being. These findings suggest that the nature of online social networking determines the outcomes of online social network use.\n\nSocial networks are being used by activists as a means of low-cost grassroots organizing. Extensive use of an array of social networking sites enabled organizers of the 2009 National Equality March to mobilize an estimated 200,000 participants to march on Washington with a cost savings of up to 85% per participant over previous methods.\nThe August 2011 England riots were similarly considered to have escalated and been fuelled by this type of grassroots organization.\n\nA rise in social network use is being driven by college students using the services to network with professionals for internship and job opportunities. Many studies have been done on the effectiveness of networking online in a college setting, and one notable one is by Phipps Arabie and Yoram Wind published in \"Advances in Social Network Analysis.\" Many schools have implemented online alumni directories which serve as makeshift social networks that current and former students can turn to for career advice. However, these alumni directories tend to suffer from an oversupply of advice-seekers and an undersupply of advice providers. One new social networking service, Ask-a-peer, aims to solve this problem by enabling advice seekers to offer modest compensation to advisers for their time. LinkedIn is also another great resource. It helps alumni, students and unemployed individuals look for work. They are also able to connect with others professionally and network with companies.\n\nIn addition, employers have been found to use social network sites to screen job candidates.\n\nA social network hosting service is a web hosting service that specifically hosts the user creation of web-based social networking services, alongside related applications.\n\nA social trade network is a service that allows traders of financial derivatives such as contracts for difference or foreign exchange contracts to share their trading activity via trading profiles online. There services are created by financial brokers.\n\nFew social networks charge money for membership. In part, this may be because social networking is a relatively new service, and the value of using them has not been firmly established in customers' minds. Companies such as Myspace and Facebook sell online advertising on their site. Their business model is based upon large membership count, and charging for membership would be counterproductive. Some believe that the deeper information that the sites have on each user will allow much better targeted advertising than any other site can currently provide. In recent times, Apple has been critical of the Google and Facebook model, in which users are defined as product and a commodity, and their data being sold for marketing revenue. Social networks operate under an autonomous business model, in which a social network's members serve dual roles as both the suppliers and the consumers of content. This is in contrast to a traditional business model, where the suppliers and consumers are distinct agents. Revenue is typically gained in the autonomous business model via advertisements, but subscription-based revenue is possible when membership and content levels are sufficiently high.\n\nPeople use social networking sites for meeting new friends, finding old friends, or locating people who have the same problems or interests they have, called niche networking. More and more relationships and friendships are being formed online and then carried to an offline setting. Psychologist and University of Hamburg professor Erich H. Witte says that relationships which start online are much more likely to succeed. In this regard, there are studies which predict tie strength among the friends on social networking websites. Witte has said that in less than 10 years, online dating will be the predominant way for people to start a relationship. One online dating site claims that 2% of all marriages begin at its site, the equivalent of 236 marriages a day. Other sites claim one in five relationships begin online.\nUsers do not necessarily share with others the content which is of most interest to them, but rather that which projects a good impression of themselves. While everyone agrees that social networking has had a significant impact on social interaction, there remains a substantial disagreement as to whether the nature of this impact is completely positive. A number of scholars have done research on the negative effects of Internet communication as well. These researchers have contended that this form of communication is an impoverished version of conventional face-to-face social interactions, and therefore produce negative outcomes such as loneliness and depression for users who rely on social networking entirely. By engaging solely in online communication, interactions between communities, families, and other social groups are weakened.\n\nSpamming on online social networks is quite prevalent. A primary motivation to spam arises from the fact that a user advertising a brand would like others to see them and they typically publicize their brand over the social network. Detecting such spamming activity has been well studied by developing a semi-automated model to detect spams. For instance, text mining techniques are leveraged to detect regular activity of spamming which reduces the viewership and brings down the reputation (or credibility) of a public pages maintained over Facebook. In some online social networks like Twitter, users have evolved mechanisms to report spammers which has been studied and analyzed.\n\nPrivacy concerns with social networking services have been raised growing concerns among users on the dangers of giving out too much personal information and the threat of sexual predators. Users of these services also need to be aware of data theft or viruses. However, large services, such as Myspace and Netlog, often work with law enforcement to try to prevent such incidents. In addition, there is a perceived privacy threat in relation to placing too much personal information in the hands of large corporations or governmental bodies, allowing a profile to be produced on an individual's behavior on which decisions, detrimental to an individual, may be taken. Furthermore, there is an issue over the control of data and information that was altered or removed by the user may in fact be retained and passed to third parties. This danger was highlighted when the controversial social networking site Quechup harvested e-mail addresses from users' e-mail accounts for use in a spamming operation.\n\nIn medical and scientific research, asking subjects for information about their behaviors is normally strictly scrutinized by institutional review boards, for example, to ensure that adolescents and their parents have informed consent. It is not clear whether the same rules apply to researchers who collect data from social networking sites. These sites often contain a great deal of data that is hard to obtain via traditional means. Even though the data are public, republishing it in a research paper might be considered invasion of privacy.\n\nPrivacy on social networking sites can be undermined by many factors. For example, users may disclose personal information, sites may not take adequate steps to protect user privacy, and third parties frequently use information posted on social networks for a variety of purposes. \"For the Net generation, social networking sites have become the preferred forum for social interactions, from posturing and role playing to simply sounding off. However, because such forums are relatively easy to access, posted content can be reviewed by anyone with an interest in the users' personal information\". The UK government has plans to monitor traffic on social networks. As well, schemes similar to e-mail jamming have been proposed for networks such as Twitter and Facebook. These would involve \"friending\" and \"following\" large numbers of random people to thwart attempts at network analysis. Privacy concerns have been found to differ between users according to gender and personality. Women are less likely to publish information that reveals methods of contacting them. Personality measures openness, extraversion, and conscientiousness were found to positively affect the willingness to disclose data, while neuroticism decreases the willingness to disclose personal information.\n\nAnother debate lies in the design of algorithmicsystems to target specific audiences on social networking sites. With multiple formats for marketing, Facebook offers a variety of direct marketing options for advertisers to reach their intended audience. For example, these ads may appear as suggested ad posts on the home News Feed or on the right side of the feed as a banner. Businesses may create a page to outline their company and post related information, promotions and contact information to it, directly reaching their interested audience. Users who \"like\" a business page will be subscribed to receive these business' updates on their home News Feed. Banner ads and suggested posts are paid for by marketers and advertisers to reach their intended audience. Like other methods of marketing, emotional connections are critical to reaching the user. From the fourth quarter of 2012 to the fourth quarter of 2013, Facebook increased its advertising click through rate by 365%, having 2.5 million promoted suggested posts on user's news feeds. This surge of posts resulted in an influx of information that was difficult to organize. A study of the emotional responses to advertising on Facebook found that Business Pages found the highest appeal to users because they were only recommended when liked by the user or the user's friends. “Liked” pages have a higher credibility to users. However, a change in algorithm announced on April 10, 2014 said that Business Pages were receiving a reduced reach after engaging in “click bait” tactics (fooling users to click links to things other than what discretely said on Facebook). The quantity of engagement on Facebook posts are measured, relaying important information about the user audience and their actions online.\n\nThe debate questions to what extent the design of these systems is compromising the needs, privacy and information of the users. More research is needed to evaluate if allowing advertising to access user information to specifically tailor content to their choices and interactions, for example by placing ads within their personal feeds and throughout their use of the site, is compromising the user's information and social wellbeing. John Herrman (2018) compares the function of algorithms in adjusting content to an omniscience and recounts the unpleasant experiences that coincide as a result. He calls to web browsing on Amazon, where products he browsed through briefly reappear on other news feeds, including his Instagram feed. He outlines the experience as if the networks “[have] got eyes everywhere,” and suggests that this looming omniscience may alter how we interact online, even “risk driving away followers in the process.” This may deter users from engaging in social interactions online and points to how much advertisers are able to tailor information to their intended audience. This debate was further ignited in early 2018. On April 10, 2018 Mark Zuckerberg testified before congress on questions defining Facebook's policy, information handling and data design systems. Congress placed emphasis on addressing Facebook's tracking of user data online, skeptical that the social networking site can regulate itself.\n\nThrough data mining, companies are able to improve their sales and profitability. With this data, companies create customer profiles that contain customer demographics and online behavior. A recent strategy has been the purchase and production of \"network analysis software\". This software is able to sort out through the influx of social networking data for any specific company. Facebook has been especially important to marketing strategists. Facebook's controversial \"Social Ads\" program gives companies access to the millions of profiles in order to tailor their ads to a Facebook user's own interests and hobbies. However, rather than sell actual user information, Facebook sells tracked \"social actions\". That is, they track the websites a user uses outside of Facebook through a program called Facebook Beacon.\n\nThere has been a trend for social networking sites to send out only \"positive\" notifications to users. For example, sites such as Bebo, Facebook, and MySpace will not send notifications to users when they are removed from a person's friends list. Likewise, Bebo will send out a notification if a user is moved to the top of another user's friends list but no notification is sent if they are moved down the list. This allows users to purge undesirables from their list extremely easily and often without confrontation since a user will rarely notice if one person disappears from their friends list. It also enforces the general positive atmosphere of the website without drawing attention to unpleasant happenings such as friends falling out, rejection and failed relationships.\n\nMany social networking services, such as Facebook, provide the user with a choice of who can view their profile. This is supposed to prevent unauthorized users from accessing their information. Parents who want to access their child's MySpace or Facebook account have become a big problem for teenagers who do not want their profile seen by their parents. By making their profile private, teens can select who may see their page, allowing only people added as \"friends\" to view their profile and preventing unwanted viewing of the profile by parents. Most teens are constantly trying to create a structural barrier between their private life and their parents. To edit information on a certain social networking service account, the social networking sites require you to log in or provide a password. This is designed to prevent unauthorized users from adding, changing, or removing personal information, pictures, or other data.\n\nSocial networking sites have created issues among getting hired for jobs and losing jobs because of exposing inappropriate content, posting photos of embarrassing situations or posting comments that contain potentially offensive comments (e.g., racist, homophobic or defamatory comments), or even political comments that are contrary to those of the employer. There are works which recommend friends to social networking users based on their political opinions. Many people use social networking sites to express their personal opinions about current events and news issues to their friends. If a potential applicant expresses personal opinions on political issues or makes potentially embarrassing posts online on a publicly available social networking platform, employers can access their employees' and applicants' profiles, and judge them based on their social behavior or political views. According to \"Silicon Republic's\" statistics, 17,000 young people in six countries were interviewed in a survey. 1 in 10 people aged 16 to 34 have been rejected for a job because of comments made on an online profile. This shows the effects that social networks have had on people's lives. There have been numerous cases where employees have lost jobs because their opinions represented their companies negatively. In September 2013, a woman got fired over Facebook because she posted disruptive information about her company stating that military patrons should not receive special treatment or discounts. A manager of the company found her opinion online, disagreed with it, and fired her because it went against the company's mission statement. In November 2012, a woman posted a racist remark about the President of the United States and mentioned a possible assassination. She lost her job, and was put under investigation by the Secret Service.\n\nNot only have employees lost their jobs in the United States, but it has happened with social network users internationally. In April 2011, a Lloyd's banking group employee in the United Kingdom was fired for making a sarcastic post about the higher salary of her boss in relation to hers. In February 2013 there was another case where a flight attendant working for a Russian airline lost her job because she posted a photo of herself giving the middle finger to a plane full of passengers. The photo went viral exposing it all over the Internet. In November 2009, a woman working for IBM in Quebec, Canada, lost her company's health insurance benefits because she posted photos displaying her mental health problem. The company decided to cut her benefits because it was costing them additional funds.\n\nCases like these have created some privacy implications as to whether or not companies should have the right to look at employees' social network profiles. In March 2012, Facebook decided they might take legal action against employers for gaining access to employee's profiles through their passwords. According to Facebook Chief Privacy Officer for policy, Erin Egan, the company has worked hard to give its users the tools to control who sees their information. He also said users shouldn't be forced to share private information and communications just to get a job. According to the network's Statement of Rights and Responsibilities, sharing or soliciting a password is a violation to Facebook. Employees may still give their password information out to get a job, but according to Erin Egan, Facebook will continue to do their part to protect the privacy and security of their users.\n\nThe relative freedom afforded by social networking services has caused concern regarding the potential of its misuse by individual patrons. In October 2006, a fake MySpace profile created in the name of Josh Evans by Lori Janine Drew led to the suicide of Megan Meier. The event incited global concern regarding the use of social networking services for bullying purposes. In July 2008, a Briton and a former friend was ordered to pay a total of GBP £22,000 (about US$44,000) for libel and breach of privacy. He had posted a fake page on Facebook purporting to be that of a former school friend Matthew Firsht, with whom he had fallen out in 2000. The page falsely claimed that Firsht was homosexual and that he was dishonest.\n\nAt the same time, genuine use of social networking services has been treated with suspicion on the ground of the services' misuse. In September 2008, the profile of Australian Facebook user Elmo Keep was banned by the site's administrators on the grounds that it violated the site's terms of use. Keep is one of several users of Facebook who were banned from the site on the presumption that their names aren't real, as they bear resemblance to the names of characters like Sesame Street's Elmo.\n\nOnline social networks have also become a platform for spread of rumors, one such study has analyzed rumors in retrospect. One of the approaches to detect rumors (or misinformation) is to compare the spread of topic over social network (say Twitter) with those spread by reliable and authorized news agencies.\n\nThere are different forms where user data in social networks are accessed and updated without a user's permission. One study highlighted that the most common incidents included inappropriate comments posted on social networking sites (43%), messages sent to contacts that were never authored (25%) and change of personal details (24%). The most incidents are carried out by the victim's friends (36%) or partners (21%) and one in ten victims say their ex-partner has logged into their account without prior consent. The survey found that online social network accounts had been subject to unauthorized access in 60 million cases in 2011.\n\nCitizens and governments have been concerned with misuse of social networking services by children and teenagers, in particular in relation to online sexual predators. For instance, there is a study which suggests the children are not too far from inappropriate content on YouTube. Overuse of social networking may also make children more susceptible to depression and anxiety. Governments are taking action to better understand the problem and find some solutions. A 2008 panel concluded that technological fixes such as age verification and scans are relatively ineffective means of apprehending online predators. In May 2010, a child pornography social networking site with hundreds of members was dismantled by law enforcement. It was deemed \"the largest crimes against children case brought anywhere by anyone\". Girls in particular are also known to be at more of a risk online using social networks than boys. According to the article, High Tech or High Risks: Moral Panics About Girls Online, it suggests that young girls are more at risks because they are often represented through \"products of play\" in transgressive poses because they often manipulate other users online by making themselves look older than what they actually appear which can attract sexual predators. Many parents of teenage girls worry about their safety online because of the many manipulations there are online and on social networking sites.\n\nSocial networking can also be a risk to child safety in another way; parents can get addicted to games and neglect their children. One instance in South Korea resulted in the death of a child from starvation. Law enforcement agencies have published articles with their recommendations to parents about their children's use of social networking sites.\n\nSocial networking sites such as Facebook are occasionally used to emotionally abuse, harass or bully individuals, either by posting defamatory statements or by forwarding private digital photos or videos that can have an adverse impact on the individuals depicted in the videos. Such actions are often referred to as \"trolling\". Confrontations in the real world can also be transferred to the online world. Trolling can occur in many different forms, such as (but not limited to) defacement of deceased person(s) tribute pages, name-calling, playing online pranks on individuals and making controversial or inflammatory comments with the intention to cause anger and cause arguments. Individuals troll for many reasons. The psychology behind why people troll according to \"Psychology Today\" is due to anonymity, perceived obscurity, and a perceived lack of consequences for online misbehavior. Trolls may also do their activities due to a perceived majority status, social identity salience and due to a sense by the troll that she or he is surrounded by online 'friends'. Trolls may also engage in harmful acts due to desensitization or negative personality traits (Fox, 2014). As these eight reasons behind the thought processes of trolls suggest individuals thrive behind being able to create a false identity or pseudonym to hide behind and the premise that they have 'friends' on social networks that agree with their outlook on certain topics, thus join in on trolling. The reason for the perceived lack of consequences is that they believe they have created an identity in which they can not be seen as a real life human and more of a persona/avatar that they have created, which leads them to feel that they will not face the consequences of being an online troll.\n\nTrolling is a prominent issue in the 2010s, and as the Internet and social media is consistently expanding and more individuals sign up to social networking sites, more people come under fire and become the target of trolls. As more people sign up to social networking sites, more celebrities are also becoming more prominent on these sites. With a variety of celebrities joining social networking sites, trolls tend to target abuse towards them. With some famous people gaining an influx of negative comments and slew of abuse from trolls it causes them to 'quit' social media. One prime example of a celebrity quitting social media is Stephen Fry. He left Twitter due to \"too much aggression and unkindness around\" emphasizing how trolls can negatively impact people's lives (Cohen, 2014). As celebrities face trolls and backlash on social media forcing them to quit, it can mean that they become less in touch with their fans, potentially losing a fan base, as they are not as relevant as people enjoy interacting with celebrities and makes them feel as though they are valued. As trolling can lead to celebrities deleting their social networks such as Twitter, it emphasizes how trolls can win, and can ruin people's lives.\n\nWhile trolls believe that they do not face consequences and can troll others on the Internet without repercussions, in the 2000s, due to high-profile cases where cyberbullies have allegedly been factors in suicides attributed to bullying, more laws have been put in place by governments. Trolls can face going to prison for certain actions that they take on the Internet, such as spreading hate speech such as racist messages. One of the highest profile cases is racist trolling. Racist trolling has seen individuals been sent to prison for Tweets they have sent that to them may have seemed harmless and not racist. One case of this in recent years is Liam Stacey who was jailed for fifty-six days for tweeting offensive messages such as 'Muamba is dead, hahahaha', referring to when footballer Fabrice Muamba collapsed during a professional football game for Bolton Wanders (Williams, 2012). This highlights how offensive tweets and messages sent on any social networking platform does have repercussions for individuals and they have to be aware that they have to face the consequences of their actions.\n\nOnline bullying, also called cyberbullying, is a relatively common occurrence and it can often result in emotional trauma for the victim. Depending on the networking outlet, up to 39% of users admit to being \"cyber-bullied\". In her article, \"Why Youth (Heart) Social Network Sites\", danah boyd, published in December 2007, a researcher of social networks, quotes a teenager. The teenager expresses frustration towards networking sites like MySpace because it causes drama and too much emotional stress. There are not many limitations as to what individuals can post when online. Individuals are given the power to post offensive remarks or pictures that could potentially cause a great amount of emotional pain for another individual.\n\nInterpersonal communication has been a growing issue as more and more people have turned to social networking as a means of communication. \"Benniger (1987) describes how mass media has gradually replaced interpersonal communication as a socializing force. Further, social networking sites have become popular sites for youth culture to explore themselves, relationships, and share cultural artifacts\". Many teens and social networking users may be harming their interpersonal communication by using sites such as Facebook and MySpace. Stated by Baroness Greenfield, an Oxford University neuroscientist, \"My fear is that these technologies are infantilizing the brain into the state of small children who are attracted by buzzing noises and bright lights, who have a small attention span and who live for the moment\".\n\nThe convenience that social network sites give users to communicate with one another can also damage their interpersonal communication. Sherry Turkle, the founder and director of the MIT Initiative on Technology and Self, stated, \"Networked, we are together, but so lessened are our expectations of each other that we feel utterly alone. And there is the risk that we come to see others as objects to be accessed--and only for the parts we find useful, comforting, or amusing\". Furthermore, social network sites can create insincere friendships, Turkle also noted, \"They nurture friendships on social-networking sites and then wonder if they are among friends. They become confused about companionship\".\n\nAs social networking sites have risen in popularity over the past years, people have been spending an excessive amount of time on the Internet in general and social networking sites in specific. This has led researchers to debate the establishment of Internet addiction as an actual clinical disorder.\nSocial networking can also affect the extent to which a person feels lonely. In a \"Newsweek\" article, Johannah Cornblatt explains \"Social-networking sites like Facebook and MySpace may provide people with a false sense of connection that ultimately increases loneliness in people who feel alone.\" John T. Cacioppo, a neuroscientist at the University of Chicago, claims that social networking can foster feelings of sensitivity to disconnection, which can lead to loneliness. Fabio Sabatini and Francesco Sarracino found that if an individual tends to (a) trust people and (b) have a significant number of face-to-face interactions, the individual is likely to assess their own well-being as relatively high. The researchers found that online social networking plays a positive role in subjective well-being when the networking is used to facilitate physical interactions, but networking activities that do not facilitate face-to-face interactions tend to erode trust, and this erosion can then negatively affect subjective well-being (independent of the online social interaction itself). Sabatini and Sarracino conclude that \"The overall effect of networking on individual welfare is significantly negative.\" However, some scholars have expressed that concerns about social networking are often exaggerated and poorly researched.\n\nThere has been rapid growth in the number of U.S. patent applications that cover new technologies related to social networking. The number of published applications has been growing rapidly since 2003. There are now over 3,500 published applications. As many as 7,000 applications may be currently on file including those that haven't been published yet. Only about 400 of these applications have issued as patents, however, due largely to the multi-year backlog in examination of business method patents and the difficulty in getting these patent applications allowed.\n\nIt has been reported that social networking patents are important for the establishment of new start-up companies. It has also been reported, however, that social networking patents inhibit innovation. On June 15, 2010, the United States Patent and Trademark Office awarded Amazon.com a patent for a \"Social Networking System\" based on its ownership of PlanetAll. The patent describes a Social Networking System as\nA networked computer system provides various services for assisting users in locating, and establishing contact relationships with, other users. For example, in one embodiment, users can identify other users based on their affiliations with particular schools or other organizations. The system also provides a mechanism for a user to selectively establish contact relationships or connections with other users, and to grant permissions for such other users to view personal information of the user. The system may also include features for enabling users to identify contacts of their respective contacts. In addition, the system may automatically notify users of personal information updates made by their respective contacts.\nThe patent has garnered attention due to its similarity to the popular social networking site Facebook.\n\nWhat types of speech workers are protected from being fired for on social networking websites has been an issue for American companies with over 100 complaints as of 2011 on this topic having been made to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). The National Labor Relations Act protects workers from being fired for \"protected concerted activity\", which prevents workers from being fired for collective action, while allowing companies the right to fire workers for individual actions they take against the company. Companies are concerned with the potential damage comments online can do to public image due to their visibility and accessibility, but despite over 100 cases being presented thus far to NLRB only one has led to a formal ruling, leaving uncertainty as to the boundaries of what types of speech the NLRB will ultimately protect or condemn.\n\nMost of the existing SNS sites use one or multiple dedicated data centers to serve all its users. Such infrastructure-based systems faces over-provisioning during non-peak hours, while may encounter service outage during peak hours, due to the highly dynamic of SNS users' activities. There are several proposals, leveraging a decentralized architecture to ensure the scalability of SNS sites with low infrastructure cost. These proposals include Fethr, uaOSN, and Cuckoo.\n\nThere is a growing number of social network users who decide to quit their user account by committing a so-called virtual identity suicide or Web 2.0 suicide. A 2013 study in the journal \"Cyberpsychology, Behavior, and Social Networking\" investigated this phenomenon from the perspective of Facebook users. The number one reason for these users was privacy concerns (48%), being followed by a general dissatisfaction with the social networking website (14%), negative aspects regarding social network friends (13%) and the feeling of getting addicted to the social networking website (6%). Facebook quitters were found to be more concerned about privacy, more addicted to the Internet and more conscientious.\n\nSites such as Facebook are becoming increasingly popular tools for methods of ending relationships and friendships, proving that although new media is being used as a tool for connecting with individuals, it is now creating new problems associated with disconnecting from others. Instead of the traditional phone call or face-to-face interaction between individuals, people are now starting to end relationships by simply changing their relationship status, knowing full well that their partner will soon see it. The problem with that is that you are left with no closure and the entire online world now knows you are no longer in a relationship. In a 2010 study conducted online, nearly one-quarter of the 1,000 individuals surveyed found out that their own relationship was over by seeing it on Facebook. New media websites have made our private lives much more public, especially when it comes to breaking up, since updates are able to be immediately viewed by everyone in our networks (which tend to be more people than we would normally tell personally); for example, having friends comment on your newly changed \"single\" relationship status, and having to explain what happened can be distressing.\n\nThis creates further problems, as it is even more crucial to 'save face' after one's relationship has been broken when one is connected to new media technologies. Erving Goffman argues that all social life boils down to face-to-face interactions. These interpersonal interactions are mediated by what Goffman terms as \"face-work\", which are the actions undertaken to maintain consistency with one's face, and to uphold the expressive order of social situations. Individuals attempt to keep a positive image of the self when interacting with others, and in order to do so, they may have to alter their appearance or manner in some way. Such face-work can also be seen in new technologies, especially social media websites such as Facebook. If someone breaks up with you, you can actively choose what \"face\" you want to present to your friends, including your ex. You can choose to either post sad updates, which is the most natural thing you would want to do, or you can \"save face\" by posting happy updates and pictures of you going out with your friends. Even though you may be absolutely heartbroken within, Facebook allows you to hide your true feelings from the online world, and from your ex, by manipulating your profile. New media is being utilized as a tool for helping users present a desirable image of themselves, enabling them to save face in difficult situations. Nearly 35% of respondents in a study admitted to using their Facebook status to make someone think that they had plans, even if they did not.\n\nMany people find that the only way to really move on from a past relationship is to cut the person out of their life completely. Social media has made this process much more complicated and difficult. In a 2012 study, 48% of the participants stated they had remained friends with their ex on Facebook, and of these people, 88% stated they 'creeped' their ex after the breakup. Many digital social networking sites leave behind a trail of a user's interactions, so deleting content may be an arduous process, more difficult than simply burning or throwing away an entire box of letters, photos, and mementos. Additionally, this content can still remain online.\n\nThe increasing number of messages and social relationships embedded in SNS also increases the amount of social information demanding a reaction from SNS users. Consequently, SNS users perceive they are giving too much social support to other SNS friends. This dark side of SNS usage is called 'social overload'. It is caused by the extent of usage, number of friends, subjective social support norms, and type of relationship (online-only vs offline friends) while age has only an indirect effect. The psychological and behavioral consequences of social overload include perceptions of SNS exhaustion, low user satisfaction, and high intentions to reduce or stop using SNS.\n\nSmart phones and social networking services enable us to stay connected continuously with people around us or far away from us, which however is sometimes the root of our anxiety in social life. The eager to know what everyone was saying and the tendency to see if anyone shared new things are typical \"symptoms\" of this anxiety called FoMO. There is a study that examined possible connections between FOMO and social media engagement indicating that FoMO was associated with lower need satisfaction, mood and life satisfaction.\n\nAnother type of social anxiety is the FoBM (fear of being missed). It comes from the situation that we can't produce share-content for people to consume. The FoBM is a counterpart of FoMO; however, compared to FoMO it may have a more serious impact since the exclusion from the conversation can result in continuous exclusion later.\n\nThe number of contacts on a social platform is sometimes considered an indicator of social capital. However, studies show it is rather an indicator of low self-esteem and of a form of social compensation. Indeed, people tend to add friends to compensate low self-esteem and there is a high correlation between the number of \"friends\" on social media platforms and feeling social anxiety, leading to symptoms of major depression and dysthymia. If we consider this aspect with regards to the relationships maintained through social media platforms, we can easily point out a change in our understanding of friendship. As a matter of fact, online platforms and social media services altered the old definition of friendship. Indeed, friendship \"redoubleth joys, and cutteth griefs in halves\" as stated by Francis Bacon. However, nowadays we see that Facebook friends for instance encourage negative feelings, such as envy, revenge and sadness.\n\nWhen it comes to friendship, we can wonder whether friendship on online platforms is a real form of friendship, or it is just a sort of metaphor to compensate for social communication problems. Actually, a lot of changes can be spotted in its old definition compared to the one in the era of social media. Friendship used to relate to the public sphere as explained in \"Nicomachean Ethics\", however nowadays friendship is rather exposed publicly on different social media platforms. \nMoreover, a study shows that Facebook users know only a bit more than two thirds of their \"friends\" on the platform, meaning that they did not know one third of the individuals in their friend-lists. This raises security and privacy issues and the project researchers alerted participants that they would better unfriend people they did not recognize.\n\nSocial networking services are increasingly being used in legal and criminal investigations. Information posted on sites such as MySpace and Facebook has been used by police (forensic profiling), probation, and university officials to prosecute users of said sites. In some situations, content posted on MySpace has been used in court.\n\nFacebook is increasingly being used by school administrations and law enforcement agencies as a source of evidence against student users. This site being the number one online destination for college students, allows users to create profile pages with personal details. These pages can be viewed by other registered users from the same school, which often include resident assistants and campus police who have signed up for the service. One UK police force has sifted pictures from Facebook and arrested some people who had been photographed in a public place holding a weapon such as a knife (having a weapon in a public place is illegal).\n\nSocial networking is more recently being used by various government agencies. Social networking tools serve as a quick and easy way for the government to get the suggestion of the public and to keep the public updated on their activity, however this comes with a significant risk of abuse, for example to cultivate a culture of fear such as that outlined in \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" or \"THX-1138\".\n\nThe Centers for Disease Control demonstrated the importance of vaccinations on the popular children's site Whyville and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has a virtual island on Second Life where people can explore underground caves or explore the effects of global warming. Likewise, NASA has taken advantage of a few social networking tools, including Twitter and Flickr. The NSA is taking advantage of them all. NASA is using such tools to aid the Review of U.S. Human Space Flight Plans Committee, whose goal it is to \"ensure that the nation is \"on a vigorous and sustainable path to achieving its boldest aspirations in space\".\n\nThe use of social networking services in an enterprise context presents the potential of having a major impact on the world of business and work . Social networks connect people at low cost; this can be beneficial for entrepreneurs and small businesses looking to expand their contact bases. These networks often act as a customer relationship management tool for companies selling products and services. Companies can also use social networks for advertising in the form of banners and text ads. Since businesses operate globally, social networks can make it easier to keep in touch with contacts around the world. Applications for social networking sites have extended toward businesses and brands are creating their own, high functioning sites, a sector known as brand networking. It is the idea that a brand can build its consumer relationship by connecting their consumers to the brand image on a platform that provides them relative content, elements of participation, and a ranking or score system. Brand networking is a new way to capitalize on social trends as a marketing tool. The power of social networks it beginning to permeate into internal culture of businesses where they are finding uses for collaboration, file sharing and knowledge transfer. The term \"enterprise social software\" is becoming increasingly popular for these types of applications.\n\nMany social networks provide an online environment for people to communicate and exchange personal information for dating purposes. Intentions can vary from looking for a one time date, short-term relationships, and long-term relationships. Most of these social networks, just like online dating services, require users to give out certain pieces of information. This usually includes a user's age, gender, location, interests, and perhaps a picture. Releasing very personal information is usually discouraged for safety reasons. This allows other users to search or be searched by some sort of criteria, but at the same time people can maintain a degree of anonymity similar to most online dating services. Online dating sites are similar to social networks in the sense that users create profiles to meet and communicate with others, but their activities on such sites are for the sole purpose of finding a person of interest to date. Social networks do not necessarily have to be for dating; many users simply use it for keeping in touch with friends, and colleagues.\n\nHowever, an important difference between social networks and online dating services is the fact that online dating sites usually require a fee, where social networks are free.\nThis difference is one of the reasons the online dating industry is seeing a massive decrease in revenue due to many users opting to use social networking services instead. Many popular online dating services such as Match.com, Yahoo Personals, and eHarmony.com are seeing a decrease in users, where social networks like MySpace and Facebook are experiencing an increase in users. The number of Internet users in the United States that visit online dating sites has fallen from a peak of 21% in 2003 to 10% in 2006. Whether it is the cost of the services, the variety of users with different intentions, or any other reason, it is undeniable that social networking sites are quickly becoming the new way to find dates online.\n\nThe National School Boards Association reports that almost 60% of students who use social networking talk about education topics online, and more than 50% talk specifically about schoolwork. Yet the vast majority of school districts have stringent rules against nearly all forms of social networking during the school day—even though students and parents report few problem behaviors online. Social networks focused on supporting relationships between teachers and their students are now used for learning, educator professional development, and content sharing. HASTAC is a collaborative social network space for new modes of learning and research in higher education, K-12, and lifelong learning; Ning supports teachers; TermWiki, TeachStreet and other sites are being built to foster relationships that include educational blogs, eportfolios, formal and ad hoc communities, as well as communication such as chats, discussion threads, and synchronous forums. These sites also have content sharing and rating features. Social networks are also emerging as online yearbooks, both public and private. One such service is MyYearbook, which allows anyone from the general public to register and connect. A new trend emerging is private label yearbooks accessible only by students, parents, and teachers of a particular school, similar to Facebook's beginning within Harvard.\n\nThe use of virtual currency systems inside social networks create new opportunities for global finance. Hub Culture operates a virtual currency Ven used for global transactions among members, product sales and financial trades in commodities and carbon credits. In May 2010, carbon pricing contracts were introduced to the weighted basket of currencies and commodities that determine the floating exchange value of Ven. The introduction of carbon to the calculation price of the currency made Ven the first and only currency that is linked to the environment.\n\nSocial networks are beginning to be adopted by healthcare professionals as a means to manage institutional knowledge, disseminate peer to peer knowledge and to highlight individual physicians and institutions. The advantage of using a dedicated medical social networking site is that all the members are screened against the state licensing board list of practitioners. A new trend is emerging with social networks created to help its members with various physical and mental ailments. For people suffering from life altering diseases or chronic health conditions, companies such as HealthUnlocked and PatientsLikeMe offers their members the chance to connect with others dealing with similar issues and share experiences. For alcoholics and addicts, SoberCircle gives people in recovery the ability to communicate with one another and strengthen their recovery through the encouragement of others who can relate to their situation. DailyStrength is also a website that offers support groups for a wide array of topics and conditions, including the support topics offered by PatientsLikeMe and SoberCircle. Some social networks aim to encourage healthy lifestyles in their users. SparkPeople and HealthUnlocked offer community and social networking tools for peer support during weight loss. Fitocracy and QUENTIQ are focused on exercise, enabling users to share their own workouts and comment on those of other users. Other aspects of social network usage include the analysis of data coming from existing social networks (such as Twitter) to discover large crowd concentration events (based on tweets location statistical analysis) and disseminate the information to e.g. mobility-challenged individuals for e.g. avoiding the specific areas and optimizing their journey in an urban environment.\n\nSocial networking sites have recently showed a value in social and political movements. In the Egyptian revolution, Facebook and Twitter both played an allegedly pivotal role in keeping people connected to the revolt. Egyptian activists have credited social networking sites with providing a platform for planning protest and sharing news from Tahrir Square in real time. By presenting a platform for thousands of people to instantaneously share videos of mainly events featuring brutality, social networking can be a vital tool in revolutions. On the flip side, social networks enable government authorities to easily identify, and repress, protestors and dissidents. Another thing that social media helps with in political applications is getting the younger generations involved in politics and ongoing political issues.\n\nPerhaps the most significant political application of social media is Barack Obama's election campaign in 2008. It was the first of its kind, as it successfully incorporated social media into its campaign winning strategy, evolving the way of political campaigns forever more in the ever-changing technological world we find ourselves in today. His campaign won by engaging everyday people and empowering volunteers, donors and advocates, through social networks, text messaging, email messaging and online videos. Obama's social media campaign was vast, with his campaign boasting 5 million 'friends' on over 15 social networking sites, with over 3 million friends just on Facebook. Another significant success of the campaign was online videos, with nearly 2,000 YouTube videos being put online, receiving over 80 million views.\n\nIn 2007, when Obama first announced his candidacy, there was no such thing as an iPhone or Twitter. However, a year later, Obama was sending out voting reminders to thousands of people through Twitter, showing just how fast social media moves. Obama's campaign was current and needed to be successful incorporating social media, as social media acts best and is most effective in real time.\n\nBuilding up to the 2012 presidential election, it was interesting to see how strong the influence of social media would be following the 2008 campaigns, where Obama's winning campaign had been social media-heavy, whereas McCain's campaign did not really grasp social media. JFK was the first president who really understood television, and similarly, Obama is the first president to fully understand the power of social media. Obama has recognized social media is about creating relationships and connections and therefore used social media to the advantage of presidential election campaigns, in which Obama has dominated his opponents in terms of social media space.\n\nOther political campaigns have followed on from Obama's successful social media campaigns, recognizing the power of social media and incorporating it as a key factor embedded within their political campaigns, for example Donald Trump's presidential electoral campaign, 2016. Dan Pfeiffer, Obama's former digital and social media guru, commented that Donald Trump is \"way better at the internet than anyone else in the GOP which is partly why he is winning\".\n\nResearch has shown that 66% of social media users actively engage in political activity online, and like many other behaviors, online activities translate into offline ones. With research from the 'MacArthur Research Network on Youth and Participatory Politics' stating that young people who are politically active online are double as likely to vote than those who are not politically active online. Therefore, political applications of social networking sites are crucial, particularly to engage with the youth, who perhaps are the least educated in politics and the most in social networking sites. Social media is therefore a very effective way in which politicians can connect with a younger audience through their political campaigns.\n\nCrowdsourcing social media platform, such as Design Contest, Arcbazar, Tongal, combined group of professional freelancers, such as designers, and help them communicate with business owners interested in their suggestion. This process is often used to subdivide tedious work or to fund-raise startup companies and charities, and can also occur offline.\n\nThere are a number of projects that aim to develop free and open source software to use for social networking services. These technologies are often referred to as social engine or social networking engine software.\n\nThe following is a list of the largest social networking services, in order by number of active users, as of January 2018, as published by Statista:\n\n"}
{"id": "27810230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27810230", "title": "Society for the Study of Social Problems", "text": "Society for the Study of Social Problems\n\nThe Society for the Study of Social Problems (SSSP), founded in 1951 by Elizabeth Briant Lee and Alfred McClung Lee, is a non-profit interdisciplinary community of scholars, practitioners, advocates, and students interested in the application of critical, scientific, and humanistic perspectives to the study of vital social problems.\n\nThe purpose of SSSP is to promote and protect sociological research and teaching on significant problems of social life. This includes: \n\nThe SSSP promotes research and dialogue through presentations at annual meetings, listservs, and newsletters throughout the year; publications in \"Social Problems\"; awards to community groups; supports graduate students, young scholars, and activists with professional support, leadership opportunities, and scholarships; passes and acts upon public resolutions; and fosters the generation of new ideas.\n\nAlthough most of the Society's members are sociologists and from the United States, the Society also enjoys the significant participation of multidisciplinary and international scholars, practitioners, students, and advocates as well. Membership is open to individuals and university and college departments who support the SSSP's mission and goals.\n\nThe SSSP has twenty-two divisions, each with its own newsletter, that provide members with common interests the opportunity to interact more intimately with one another. Division activity shapes the annual meeting of the Society by organizing paper sessions and panels. Divisions provide an opportunity for young scholars to present their work to a critical audience of scholar advocates interested in good research and social action to move toward solutions for social problems. Members interested in emerging areas of social problems can form new divisions.\n\nThe SSSP grants awards, fellowships, and scholarships in recognition of meritorious work by outstanding scholars, practitioners, advocates, and students who demonstrate active pursuit in the application of critical, scientific, and humanistic perspectives to the study of vital social problems. One of these awards is the prestigious C. Wright Mills Award, awarded to the previous year’s most outstanding book in the tradition of the individual for whom the award is named.\n\nThe Society publishes \"Social Problems\", one of the leading referred and most widely read social science journals in the United States, and several other miscellaneous publications.\n\nThe following is a list of Presidents of the Society from 1952 to 2019.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "489833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489833", "title": "Tautiška giesmė", "text": "Tautiška giesmė\n\nTautiška giesmė (; literally \"The National Hymn\") is the national anthem of Lithuania, also known by its opening words \"Lietuva, Tėvyne mūsų\" (official translation of the lyrics: \"Lithuania, Our Homeland\", literally: \"Lithuania, Our Fatherland\") and as \"Lietuvos himnas\" (Hymn of Lithuania). The music and lyrics were written in 1898 by Vincas Kudirka, when Lithuania was still part of the Russian Empire. The fifty-word poem was a condensation of Kudirka's conceptions of the Lithuanian state, the Lithuanian people, and their past. Shortly before his death in 1899, the anthem was performed for Lithuanians living in Saint Petersburg, Russia.\n\nThe first public Lithuanian performance of the anthem took place in Vilnius in 1905, and it became the official national anthem in 1919, a year after Lithuania declared its independence.\n\n\"Tautiška giesmė\" was reinstated in 1989 shortly before the reestablishment of Lithuanian independence and confirmed in the National Anthem Act (21 October 1991). It was automatically included as the national anthem in 1992, when the new Constitution was ratified after independence from the Soviet Union was achieved. The status of \"Tautiška giesmė\" as the National Anthem of Lithuania was further confirmed in 1999 with the passage of a national law stating that.\n\nAt the time when the poem \"Lietuva, Tėvyne mūsų\" was written, Lithuania was part of the Russian Empire. Kudirka, a medical student at the University of Warsaw, was writing as a columnist for the newspaper \"Varpas\" (The Bell). In his \"Varpas\" columns, Kudirka urged Lithuanians to take pride in their heritage, discussed the problems the Russian Government was causing the Lithuanian population, and denounced those who wished to work for the Tsarist autocracy. In the course of writing for \"Varpas\", he wrote down his thoughts on what Lithuania was and what it should be, resulting in the fifty-word poem \"Lietuva, Tėvynė mūsų\" (\"Lithuania, Our Homeland\").\n\nThe poem described the heroic past of Lithuania and exhorted its people to care for the land, care for humanity, and live in honor. Kudirka also urged the country to become a source of enlightenment and virtue. Without a melody, Kudirka took the time to compose the music just before dying of tuberculosis. Both the melody and the lyrics were printed in Varpas in September 1898. Upon his death in 1899, Kudirka's tomb was engraved with the second stanza of the anthem (later destroyed by the authorities).\n\nBefore Kudirka's death, the first performance of the poem occurred at a concert in St. Petersburg, Russia in 1899. The concert was conducted by Česlovas Sasnauskas and was attended by Lithuanians, which St. Petersburg had the largest population of at that time. The anthem was first performed in Lithuania during the Great Seimas of Vilnius on December 3, 1905.\nWhen Lithuania declared its independence from Russia in 1918, the song was declared the national anthem. It held this status until Lithuania was annexed into the Soviet Union during World War II. During the interwar period, there had been suggestions to modify the words to include a reference to God. It was decided, in Kudirka's memory, that the lyrics should remain as he had written them.\n\nOn 9 until 12 May 1942, the Marijampolė Commissariat took 580 young men to take charge of the work of the carriers for the German Army Transportation Service. In the division of the men mentioned in the yard of the soldiers, about 3000-4000 people came there, about two thirds of women and girls, and began to shout out: \"We are not Germans, do not go to the front.\" At that time, about 70% of the troops returned to the barracks yard to support the demonstration. Marijampole Teachers Seminary and Gymnasium Students. The demonstrators then sang Lithuanian liberation songs and Tautiška giesmė and threatenedly fight against several insufficiently armed local commando soldiers, turned the table, and cut some glass windows. Finally, the crowd gathered on the street to walk to the city. In that direction, the soldiers of the Wehrmacht stoned the truck. \n\nWhile singing the national anthem, the Lithuanian policemen paid homage, and weighed on two of them. The soldiers of the 1st Police Battalion in the Marijampolė Police Battalion were completely passive, with regard, to the crowd.\n\nImmediately following the Soviet occupation of Lithuania, the government of the Lithuanian SSR published a new constitution, the Stalinist Constitution of the Lithuanian SSR, that regulates the usage of the new flag and the new coat of arms as a symbol of the socialist identity. However, in this constitution, there was no regulations on the national anthem of the Lithuanian SSR. According to the customs of the USSR, all of the republics of the USSR have the Internationale translated into their own language as the anthem.\n\nThe officially introduced \"Internationale\" in Lithuania was unpopular and the majority of the population of Lithuania considered that the song ruins Lithuania's national anthem. Most of the Lithuanians still remember the Tautiška giesmė as their national. This was particularly evident when the authorities gathered all of the teachers in 14-15 August 1940 at the Lithuanian Teachers' Congress in Kaunas. The congress was attended by more than 10,000 primary and secondary school teachers and high schools lecturers. Of all the speakers, only the Prime Minister of Lithuania, Vincas Krėvė-Mickevičius, reminded the audience of the Lithuanian anthem, concluding his speech: \"Light and truth all along, guide our steps forever.\" Upon the end of the congress and the orchestra after the Internationale was played, a teacher began to sang the Tautiška giesmė. Other teacher joined in front of her, singing the anthem, and after that, all of the teachers that attended the congress sing the anthem, publicly testifying about \"their the determination to serve their homeland, but not the occupier\". Inspired by them, the orchestra followed them standing.\n\nThe issue about the anthem was raised again after the re-occupation of the Baltic States, after Lithuania re-joined the USSR as the Lithuanian SSR. A new anthem of the USSR was made, and the lyrics of the anthem were translated to the languages of the USSR republics. The original plan was to use the translated anthem as the temporary anthem, until a new, more socialist anthem was made.\n\nDuring the translation process, Antanas Venclova as the translator, have some worries on the lyrics. The lyrics mentioned \"Великая Русь\" (), which he translated to \"Didžiosios Rusios\". He feared that the part of the lyrics would be badly accepted in Lithuania, because the lyrics shows superiority of the Russian nation in Lithuania, and the spirit of the national revival that passed away after the occupation of Lithuania. The translation of the anthem itself was submitted on 5 January 1944. The translation of the anthem was approved on 7 January 1944.\n\nIn 26 January 1944, on the session of the Supreme Council of the USSR, the council adopted a resolution about the rights of all of the Soviet republics to hold their national military formations and Foreign Affairs Commissariat. The resoloution was an attempt was made for the image of the USSR as the Soviet republics have an independent statehood. By doing so, the Soviet Union seeks to create a single place for each of the Soviet republics in the UN. Even before the session, Justas Paleckis proposed to the USSR Commissioner for Foreign Affairs of the People's Commissars, Vyacheslav Molotov, to consider whether the Soviet republics are allowed to have their own anthems. Molotov reported that the Politburo had decided to offer the Soviet republics to create their own anthems.\n\nWith the offer from the USSR government, the question of the Lithuanian anthem was re-discussed. The first proposal of the anthem was the song \"Mes su Stalinu\" (), which was proposed by G. Alexandrov to K. Preikšui. Other proposals proposed by G. Alexandrov was Tautiška giesmė, and other popular songs, including a poem by Petras Vaičiūnas \"Ei, pasauli, mes be Vilniaus nenurimsime\".\n\nOn 1 June 1944 the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Lithuania prepared a draft resolution of the national anthem of Lithuania: \"At the present political situation, it is expedient to use the national anthem of Lithuania, in the Lithuanian SSR, to use its popularity and the opportunity to turn it into a weapon of strengthening the Soviet power to create a national anthem of the Lithuanian SSR...\"\n\nThe main points of the decree was as followed :\n\nIn the same draft resolution, it was envisaged that the lyrics and the melody of the Tautiška giesmė will be approved by the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the Lithuanian SSR and the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR.\n\nThe question of the creation of a new anthem of the Lithuanian SSR returned a year later. From 28 until 29 September 1945, the issue was held at the meeting of the Lithuanian Communist Party Central Committee Bureau. in the meeting, it was decided that a new anthem of the Lithuanian SSR was needed to reflect the socio-political change in Lithuania. A commission was organized to make the new national anthem of the Lithuanian SSR.\n\nThe committee consisted of K. Preikšas as the chairman, Justas Paleckis, Juozas Banaitis, Juozas Žiugžda, and the honored artists in the Lithuanian SSR, Professor Juozas Gruodis, K. Korsak, and V. Niunka. The lyrics and the melody of the national anthem of the Lithuanian SSR should be submitted no later than on 1 January 1946. However, the anthem wasn't submitted in the deadline. A new commission for the anthem was created, consisted of Antanas Venclova, Theophilus Tilvytis, Juozas Melnikas, Valerija Valsiūnienė, Eduardas Mieželaitis, Vacys Reimer and Aleksys Churgin. Due to the active partisan struggle in Lithuania, the plans of the new national anthem was relinquished. Apparently, the authorities believed that replacing Tautiška giesmė with a new one would further aggravate dissatisfaction of the population with the political system.\n\nOf all the Soviet Baltic republics, only Lithuania could maintain the usage of their previous national anthem. The anthem was used until 1945. In Latvia and Estonia, new anthems were created and approved in 1945. Due to the different opinions about the anthem of the Lithuanian SSR, Justas Paleckis proposed to change the words of the Tautiška giesmė. However, the propose idea was rejected.\n\nAfter the , the authorities concluded that it was safe to introduce the new anthem. On July 15, 1950, in the 10th anniversary of the incorporation of Lithuania to the Soviet Union, the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the Lithuanian SSR approved a new anthem. The music for the anthem was composed by Balys Dvarionas and Jonas Švedas, and the words were written originally by Antanas Venclova. The anthem was confirmed in Article 169 of the 1978 Constitution of the Lithuanian SSR.\n\nEven though Tautiška giesmė was used as the national anthem of the Lithuanian SSR for 6 years, the anthem ended up being banned in the Lithuanian SSR after the introduction and the approvement as the new anthem. During this period, the Lithuanian Tautiška giesmė became a symbol of national resistance to the Soviet Union. The anthem was often sang at various festivities in families and in small gatherings of trusted people.\n\nOn 6 October 1988, \"Tautiška giesmė\" was approved as a replacement for the State Anthem of the Lithuanian SSR. The preliminary approval was made by the Supreme Soviet of the Lithuanian SSR and successive legislative bodies.\n\nThe status of Tautiška giesmė as the national anthem of the Lithuanian Republic was reconfirmed in 1992. In that year, the Constitution of Lithuania was approved; Article 19 of the document states that \"Tautiška giesmė\" will be the national anthem of Lithuania. The last law in relation to the national anthem was passed in 1999; it contained the official lyrics and protocol on how and when to play the anthem.\n\nSigned into law by President Valdas Adamkus on 9 June 1999, the \"Law on the National Anthem of the Republic of Lithuania\" details when and where the national anthem is played and its performance protocols.\n\nArticle 2 of the law states that the anthem is to be played at the following occasions: At the beginning or ending of solemn sessions of the Seimas, on national holidays and memorial days, and at receptions and farewells of foreign heads of state on official visits to Lithuania—but only after the anthem of the foreign country has been played.\n\nIt is played in foreign countries to represent Lithuania, according to their own diplomatic protocols; on national holidays and other days when the Flag of Lithuania is raised by order of the government; when the flag is raised during public events sponsored by governmental institutions, business, and organizations; and at the beginning and end of National Radio programming. The anthem may also be played at other occasions, such as sporting competitions.\n\nWhen playing the anthem, the music may be either live or recorded. The anthem may be performed with a choir, an orchestra, a military band, or a combination of the latter two. Article 4, section 2, states that all participants are encouraged to sing the national anthem. When the anthem is played, all civilians are asked to stand in a gesture of respect to the anthem. If employees of national defense, police, and other military or military-related organizations are present, they must respect the anthem in a way prescribed by their statutes. The anthem cannot be used as background music, purposes of advertisement, or for entertainment, such as karaoke. Public disrespect of the anthem may be punishable by law.\n\nThe Lithuanian National Culture Centre has created several sheet music for the anthem. Below are the sheet music for the anthem:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48522367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48522367", "title": "The Berkeley Treatise", "text": "The Berkeley Treatise\n\nThe Berkeley Treatise is an anonymous 14th Century compilation of musicological writings. The treatise is in five sections: concerning fundamentals and mode, discant, mensuration, musica speculativa and tuning. The third section on mensuration is a version of the \"Libellus cantus mensurabilis\" by Johannes de Muris, dated to 1375.\n"}
{"id": "2492722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2492722", "title": "The Boondocks (TV series)", "text": "The Boondocks (TV series)\n\nThe Boondocks is an American adult animated sitcom on Cartoon Network's late-night programming block, Adult Swim. Created by Aaron McGruder, based upon his comic strip of the same name, the series premiered on November 6, 2005. The show begins with a black family, the Freemans, settling into the fictional, friendly and overall white suburb of Woodcrest. The perspective offered by this mixture of cultures, lifestyles, social classes, stereotypes, viewpoints and racialized identities provides for much of the series' satire, comedy, and conflict.\n\n\"The Boondocks\" ended its run on June 23, 2014, with a total of 55 episodes over the course of the show's four seasons. The fourth and final season was produced without any involvement from McGruder. The series also airs in syndication outside the United States and has been released on various DVD sets and other forms of home media.\n\n\"The Boondocks\" began as a comic strip on Hitlist.com, one of the first online music websites. The strip later found its way into \"The Source\" magazine. Following these runs, McGruder began simultaneously pitching \"The Boondocks\" both as a syndicated comic strip and an animated television series. The former goal was met first, and \"The Boondocks\" debuted in newspapers in April 1999.\n\nIn the meantime, development on \"The Boondocks\" TV series continued. McGruder and film producer/director Reginald Hudlin (President of Entertainment for BET from 2005–08) created a \"Boondocks\" pilot for the Fox Network, but found great difficulty in making the series acceptable for network television. Hudlin left the project after the Fox deal fell through, although McGruder and Sony Television are contractually bound to continue to credit him as an executive producer. Mike Lazzo, president of Adult Swim and executive producer for \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\" and \"Space Ghost Coast to Coast\", stumbled across the pilot and declared it \"too networky\". He then ordered a 15-episode season and told McGruder to \"just tell stories\".\n\nThe series has a loose connection with the continuity of the comic strip, though during the final year of the strip McGruder made a point to try to synchronize both. He introduced Uncle Ruckus into the strip, and the comic-strip version of Riley's hair was braided into cornrows to match the character's design in the series. During Season 1, McGruder put the strip on a 6-month hiatus beginning in March 2006. He did not return to the strip the following November, and the strip's syndicate, Universal Press Syndicate, announced that it had been cancelled.\n\nThe opening theme song used in the series (slightly remixed for Season 2 and 3) is performed by hip-hop artist Asheru.\n\nThe series was produced in widescreen since the beginning; however, the image was cropped to accommodate the aspect ratio at the time of their original broadcasts as well as reruns. Cropping widescreen material is a practice Adult Swim rarely uses. Since the third season, the series has been produced in high definition and is presented in its original aspect ratio and resolution.\n\nIn 2014, it was announced that Aaron McGruder would not be involved in the show's fourth and final season. Adult Swim stated that \"a mutually agreeable production schedule could not be determined.\" The first episode of the fourth (and final) season was first broadcast on April 21, 2014, with the series eventually concluding its run on June 23, 2014.\n\nThe series opens with the Freemans settling into the fictional, peaceful, and mostly white suburb of Woodcrest. Evidence for the real-world location of the fictional Woodcrest is mixed. Proponents of the Chicago's South Side theory cite the real-life suburb of Crestwood, Illinois and the similarity of the two names. The first season features several Chicago Landmarks: a skyline shot showing the Willis Tower, Grant Park, buildings of the Michigan Avenue Historic District, and Lake Michigan; as well as elevated rapid transit endemic to the city, resembling the Chicago \"L\". More conclusive evidence is presented in \"The Trial of Robert Kelly\", in which Riley asks Grandad, \"Can you take us into the City tomorrow to watch the R. Kelly Trial?\". Grandad denies his request and tells him to walk, and Riley replies \"But it's 40 miles!\" In reality, R. Kelly is from Chicago, and this trial was in fact held in there, giving more evidence that \"The Boondocks\" is in fact set in Illinois. Another conclusive reference to Chicago is Martin Luther King Drive, a major street running through South Chicago, being referenced for its violent activity in the 9th episode of season 1, \"Return of the King\". Additionally, in \"Let's Nab Oprah\", Ed Wuncler III, Gin Rummy and Riley go to Oprah Winfrey's television studio in an attempt to kidnap her. Oprah's television show was recorded at Harpo Studios in Near West Side Chicago.\n\nProponents of the Columbia, Maryland theory, however, cite other evidence, such as series creator Aaron McGruder's own childhood growing up there, while his father worked for the National Transportation Safety Board. In the comics, Huey's cellphone number has a 443 area code, which belongs to the Baltimore metropolitan area. In \"Wingmen,\" the Freemans fly 'home' to Chicago, where they lived before moving to Woodcrest, to attend a funeral. In \"The Fried Chicken Flu,\" a reporter on a passing television screen reports on the titular disease's effect on the state of Maryland. In addition, in Season 4's first episode \"Pretty Boy Flizzy,\" a man references an upcoming concert at Woodcrest Post Pavilion, which may be a play on Columbia's notable concert venue Merriweather Post Pavilion.\n\n\nBoth the comic strip and the cartoon were influenced by McGruder's love of anime and manga. He cites \"Cowboy Bebop\" and \"Samurai Champloo\" as sources of inspiration for the series' fight scenes. The opening sequence of Season 1 contains similarities to that of \"Samurai Champloo\". Some of the humor is based on the characters' anime-style movements. In 2006, McGruder explained in an interview, \"We now have a Japanese anime studio named Madhouse to help us out\", but at some point, the deal with Madhouse fell through. Instead, MOI Animation, an Emmy Award-winning South Korean studio, handled the animation for season two onwards. As a result, the following seasons of the series have more detailed animation, as well as minor updates for most of the character designs.\n\nThe episode \"Pause\" presents a thinly veiled parody of Tyler Perry, presented as using his religion to hide his cross-dressing. The episode reportedly angered Perry, with the network responding to his complaints by saying that they should have warned him before the episode aired.\n\nOn March 21, 2014, it was revealed via press release from Adult Swim that \"The Boondocks\" would be renewed for a fourth and final season. However, it was also revealed that the fourth season would also take place without the involvement of the series creator Aaron McGruder. The reason cited for the split between the creator and the company was a disagreement over the production schedule of the fourth season.\n\n\"The Boondocks\" gives commentary on American politics from an African American perspective. The series accomplishes this by using satire and controversial statements, such as one of the opening lines in the series, \"Jesus was Black, Ronald Reagan was the devil, and the government is lying about 9/11.\" The show has also given input on subjects like the American government's response to Hurricane Katrina, the War in Iraq, and other controversial political events that took place throughout the 2000's. When asked about the show and the approaches taken that make it so controversial, series creator Aaron McGruder stated, \"...I just hope to expand the dialogue and hope the show will challenge people to think about things they wouldn't normally think about, or think about it in a very different way.\"\n\nThe series typically features appearances by well-known entities (singers, rappers, public figures) within the Black popular culture as well as parodies of these entities. Episodes often feature many cameos, much like the episode \"Let's Nab Oprah,\" which features appearances from Oprah Winfrey, Maya Angelou, and Bill Cosby. Other appearances and parodies within the show includes R. Kelly on trial for sexual misconduct accusations, DMX's disbelief when told about Barack Obama running for president in an interview, and an episode that mimicked \"Juice.\" The series also involves parodies of famous news reports including a broadcast in which a freshman in high school was called a \"nigga\" by his teacher, who thought the word was acceptable to use. \"The Boondocks\" recreates this incident with Riley and his teacher.\n\nThe series often challenges the way in which African Americans behave and think within its episodes. The show has used sardonic humor to teach lessons and get people thinking since it was a comic strip, making critiques at the behavior of famous African Americans throughout the early 2000's. Aaron McGruder was interviewed by Nightline in early 2006 on the episode, \"Return of the King\" which sparked much controversy after Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. reprimanded a crowd of African Americans for being lazy and unaware of their political climate. In the interview, McGruder said, \"In the episode, King is critical of our apathy and inactivity... We carry the blame of our own apathy and inactivity... We deserve to take a look at that and be honest about it.\"\n\n\"The Boondocks\" is known for its frequent usage of the \"n\" word, which has been a source of controversy for the show throughout its tenure. However, McGruder once stated about the word within the show, \"I think it makes the show sincere... the N-word is used so commonly now, not only by myself but people I know, that I feel it's fake to write around it and not use it.\" He also said in a 2005 ABC News article, \"This isn't the nigga show... I just wish we would expand the dialogue and evolve past the same conversation that we've had over the past 30 years about race in our country.\"\n\n\"The Boondocks\" has received critical acclaim. In January 2006, it was nominated for Outstanding Comedy Series at the 37th NAACP Image Awards alongside \"The Bernie Mac Show\", \"Everybody Hates Chris\", \"Girlfriends\", and \"Half & Half\". The show won a Peabody Award in 2006 for the episode \"Return of the King.\" The first season garnered positive reviews, having a score of 72 out of 100 on Metacritic, based on 21 reviews. IGN named it the 94th-best animated series, describing it as a sharp satirical look at American society.\n\nCritic Jeffrey M. Anderson of the \"San Francisco Examiner\" said, \"Each episode is beautifully crafted, with an eye on lush, shadowy visuals and a pulsing, jazz-like rhythm... the show is almost consistently funny, consistently brilliant, and, best of all, compulsively watchable.\"\n\nMike Hale of the \"New York Times\" has considered \"The Boondocks\" among the top television shows of 2010, citing \"Pause\" as a \"painfully funny\" satire of Tyler Perry being portrayed as a superstar actor and a leader of a homoerotic cult. In 2013, IGN placed \"The Boondocks\" as number 17 on their list of Top 25 animated series for adults.\n\n\"The Boondocks\" has been a frequent subject of controversy since its comic-strip debut in 1999, with ABC News noting, \"Fans and critics of \"The Boondocks\" loved and hated the strip for the same reasons: its cutting-edge humor and unapologetic, sometimes unpopular, views on various issues, including race, politics, the war on terrorism and the September 11 attacks.\" Numerous outlets predicted the show would encounter controversy prior to its November 2005 debut, due to its casual use of the word \"nigger\". According to an article in \"The Washington Post\", references to Rosa Parks were removed from one of the series' first completed episodes within a week of her death. In 2006, the Reverend Al Sharpton protested the first-season episode \"Return of the King,\" for Martin Luther King, Jr.'s character's use of the word \"nigga,\" saying \"Cartoon Network must apologize and also commit to pulling episodes that desecrate black historic figures.\" Cartoon Network released a statement in response defending McGruder: \"We think Aaron McGruder came up with a thought-provoking way of not only showing Dr. King's bravery but also of reminding us of what he stood and fought for, and why even today, it is important for all of us to remember that and to continue to take action,\" the statement said. The episode was later awarded a Peabody Award for being \"an especially daring episode\".\n\nDuring \"The Boondocks\" Season 2, two episodes were removed from broadcast without any official word from the network. Originally slated to air on November 16 and December 17, \"The Hunger Strike\" and \"The Uncle Ruckus Reality Show\" were both heavily critical of BET. An exclusive clip of \"The Hunger Strike\" was given to \"HipHopDX.com\" in late January 2008, before both episodes were included in full on the Season 2 DVD release that summer. An anonymous source close to the show told \"HipHopDX.com\" that they heard BET had been pressuring Sony (the studio behind \"The Boondocks\") to ban the episodes and threatened legal action. Cartoon Network publicly stated that \"...neither Turner nor Adult Swim were contacted by BET, Ms. Lee or Mr. Hudlin\". However, BET's parent company, Viacom, did threaten legal action against Sony if said episodes were broadcast to air in the United States.\n\nTyler Perry was reportedly infuriated by his depiction in the Season 3 episode \"Pause\", first aired in June 2010, although he has officially given no response. The episode stars Winston Jerome, a parody of Perry, a \"closeted, cross-dressing cult leader whose love of the Christian faith is a mask for his true sexuality,\" in what the \"Los Angeles Times\" described as \"one of the sharpest public criticisms of Perry\". Soon after the episode aired, Perry got in touch with executives at Turner Broadcasting and \"complained loudly\" about the episode, threatening to rethink his relationship with the company. In 2010, \"Time\" magazine named \"The Boondocks\" as sixth out of \"10 of the Most Controversial Cartoons of All Time\".\n\nMcGruder launched a Kickstarter campaign to raise $200,000 in order to produce a live-action film focusing on the character Uncle Ruckus. He stated that crowd-funding would be the sole source of funding for the film's budget. The campaign was from January 30 through March 1, 2013, 7:00 p.m. EST, ending with 2,667 backers and $129,963 of the $200,000 goal. The project ultimately never got off the ground.\n\n\"The Boondocks\" airs on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim in the United States and on NITV in Australia (in Australia Season 2 has also aired on The Comedy Channel). In Canada, Teletoon at Night, then known as \"The Detour on Teletoon\", aired the first two seasons, including several episodes that didn't air in the US. Sony Entertainment Television (and later Sony Max) broadcasts the show in South Africa. It has also been aired on TV3 and TV6 in Sweden, on Comedy Central in New Zealand. MTV Italy and Comedy Central Italy in Italy, and on channel TV3+ in Denmark.\n\nIn Russia, \"The Boondocks\" is aired on channel 2×2 under the name of \"Гетто\" (\"Getto\", Russian for \"Ghetto\"). In Poland, it is broadcast on AXN Spin HD as \"Boondocks\". In France, it airs on MCM (TV channel). It airs on Sony Entertainment Television (Latin America) in Latin America, as well as Sony Yay in India. It also airs uncensored and uncut in the Arab World on OSN.\n\nAll four seasons have been released on DVD by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, both individually and as a box set spanning the entire series. Seasons 1 and 2 are presented in the original aspect ratio used for production, rather than the ratio achieved by cropping the image to fit television screens in use at the time of their original airing. The 16:9 ratio was used for broadcasts of Seasons 3 and 4 and is preserved on the DVD sets.\n\n\"The Boondocks\" was also released on iTunes and Amazon Video. Season 1 was also released on UMD.\n\n"}
{"id": "13524569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13524569", "title": "The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland", "text": "The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland\n\nThe Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland was a book published in 1855 that featured 51 plates of nature printing by Henry Bradbury.\n\nThe text was a scientific description of all the varieties of Ferns found in the British Isles. The author of this work was the botanist Thomas Moore, the editor was John Lindley.\n\nThe book was released at a time of so-called \"pteridomania\" in Britain. Along with William Grosart Johnstone and Alexander Croall's \"Nature-Printed British Sea-Weeds\" (London, 1859-1860), the book featured Bradbury's innovative nature printing process. The publisher of the work was Bradbury and Evans. Bradbury patented the process after seeing the invention of Alois Auer - though the identity of its inventor grew to be a subject of debate.\n\nThe technique was briefly in vogue, but did not persist in printing. Bradbury, along with Auer, believed the technique to be an enormous advance in printing. However, the plants and other subjects that could be successfully printed in this way were few. Ferns were one of the few plants with a form that could be replicated, the shape of the fronds being largely two-dimensional.\n\nIn this work the ferns, a plant highly suited to the process, were impressed upon soft lead plates. These were electroplated to become the printing plate, the details of the fronds and stem were hand-coloured at this stage. The resulting image was in two colours and provided a highly detailed and realistic depiction of the species.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33815538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33815538", "title": "The Triumph of the Moon", "text": "The Triumph of the Moon\n\nThe Triumph of the Moon: A History of Modern Pagan Witchcraft is a book of religious history by the English historian Ronald Hutton, first published by Oxford University Press in 1999. At the time, Hutton was a Reader in History at Bristol University, and had previously published a study of ancient pre-Christian religion, \"The Pagan Religions of the Ancient British Isles\" (1991) as well as studies of British folk customs and the Early Modern period.\n\n\"The Triumph of the Moon\" dealt with the early history of Wicca, a contemporary Pagan religion which developed in England in the early 20th century. The first academic study to tackle the entirety of this subject, Hutton questioned many assumptions about Wicca's development and argued that many of the claimed connections to longstanding hidden pagan traditions are questionable at best. However, he also argued for its importance as a genuine new religious movement.\n\n\"The Triumph of the Moon\" was well received in both academia and the mainstream press. Various academics working in the fields of Pagan studies, the history of western esotericism and the history of magic have praised it as an influential study that helped to legitimise the historical investigation of alternate and occult religious movements. An academic anthology edited by Dave Evans and Dave Green was later published in its honour, entitled \"Ten Years of Triumph of the Moon\" (2009).\n\nThe book received a mixed reception from the Pagan community itself. Many welcomed it, praising it as an authoritative account of Wiccan history, but others were more critical, arguing that Hutton had prematurely rejected the idea that Wicca was the continuation of an ancient, pre-Christian tradition. Several Wiccans taking the latter view openly published their criticisms, with the Wiccan Jani Farrell-Roberts taking part in a published debate with Hutton in the British Pagan magazine \"The Cauldron\" (2003), whilst the New Zealander Ben Whitmore published a short book casting a critical eye on Hutton's work, entitled \"Trials of the Moon\" (2010).\n\nBefore Hutton's work, no professional historian had ever examined the history of Wicca.\n\nRonald Hutton was born in Ootacamund in India, and \"was in fact brought up Pagan, in a modern English tradition which combined a reverence for the natural world with a love of the ancient Greek and Roman classics.\" In his teenage years he became acquainted with Wicca, attending his first Wiccan rite at Halloween 1968 and meeting the prominent Wiccan High Priest Alex Sanders.\n\nHutton had studied history at Pembroke College, Cambridge and then Magdalen College, Oxford, before gaining a job at the University of Bristol in 1981. Focusing his research interests on Early Modern England, he subsequently published a string of four books on the subject; \"The Royalist War Effort 1642–1646\" (1982), \"The Restoration: A Political and Religious History of England and Wales 1658–1660\" (1985), \"Charles the Second, King of England, Scotland and Ireland\" (1989) and \"The British Republic 1649–1660\" (1990). 1991 saw the publication of his first work on the subject of pagan religion, \"The Pagan Religions of the Ancient British Isles\", released by the publishers Blackwell.\n\nIn 1998, the year before the publication of Hutton's \"Triumph of the Moon\", the American Wiccan Donald H. Frew (1960–) published an article entitled \"Methodological Flaws in Recent Studies of Historical and Modern Witchcraft\" in the Canadian journal \"Ethnologies\" in which he criticised the study of Wiccan history up till that point, including Hutton's \"Pagan Religions of the Ancient British Isles\". Arguing that the \"most basic flaw in some of the recent studies of Witchcraft is the systematic altering of source texts to support the author's arguments\", Frew accused the American Wiccan Aidan Kelly, author of \"Crafting the Art of Magic\", of being particularly guilty of this. He furthermore went on to criticise the English folklorist Jacqueline Simpson of misrepresenting the work of Margaret Murray, arguing that she had made Murray appear more \"dogmatic and absolute\" than she actually was. Moving on, Frew accuses Hutton of the same, believing that in \"Pagan Religions\" he used a \"belittling\" tone to discuss Murray's work. Hutton responded to Frew in an article published in the journal \"Folklore\" in 2000. Entitled \"Paganism and Polemic: The Debate over the Origins of Modern Pagan Witchcraft\", in the paper Hutton commented that Frew's work had been a \"historiographical landmark\", being \"only the second contribution to one of the key scholarly debates in the history of contemporary religions\".\n\nOpening with a preface in which Hutton explains his purpose in writing the book, the first half of the work, which is titled 'Macrocosm', deals with the various influences which existed in 19th and early 20th century Britain that played a part in the development of Wicca.\n\nChapter one, entitled 'Finding a Language', deals with the definitions of various words pertinent to this study, such as \"religion\" and \"paganism\". Hutton proceeds to look at the ways in which ancient pagans, adherents of indigenous tribal religions and druids had been depicted in Romanticist and other forms of literature, such as in the works of R. M. Ballantyne, G. K. Chesterton and Lord Byron.\n\nThe second chapter, 'Finding a Goddess', looks at the development of both a moon goddess and Mother Earth in the works of literary figures like Keats, Shelley and Charlotte Brontë. Hutton then discusses the archaeological ideas of ancient goddesses which were prevalent at the time, in particular those put forward by the likes of Arthur Evans and Jane Ellen Harrison which argued for the existence of a singular Great Goddess. In the third chapter, 'Finding a God', Hutton then tackles the view of male pagan gods, noting the widespread adoption of Apollo and Pan as modern icons by Romanticists, and discussing the wealth of literary references to Pan produced in the 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nThe latter half of the book instead looked at the early development of Wicca.\n\nIn his review published in \"The Journal of Ecclesiastical History\", the historian Alec Ryrie of the University of Birmingham described Hutton's work as \"a remarkable book\" which offered \"a brave, perhaps foolhardy\" study from a scholar who was \"at the height of his powers\". He furthermore remarked that the book had been written with a mix of passion, calm and clarity. Ryrie went on to note that he felt it was striking that Hutton insisted on taking the religious claims of Pagans seriously and felt that he had continuously expressed contempt for the rationalism common in academic discourse. Although noting that Hutton's \"willingness to take such a view in print entails a lowering of the academic's normal shield of dispassionate detachment\", a position that Ryrie felt might not be \"sustainable\", Ryrie ultimately considered \"Triumph of the Moon\" to be \"a passionate, important and consistently fascinating book.\"\n\nWriting in the \"Journal of Contemporary History\", Rodney W. Ambler noted that Hutton's work \"has important insights into some of the positions adopted as the intellectual hegemony of Christianity appeared to become increasingly insecure in the course of the nineteenth century.\" Nonetheless, Ambler remained largely critical of the book, noting that by associating with hundreds of Wiccans in the process of researching and writing the work, Hutton had written a \"highly personalized and partial study\" which had a \"seriously flawed\" methodology.\n\nIn \"The Pomegranate: A New Journal of Neopagan Thought\" – then a scholarly but not yet academic publication – two separate academics published reviews of Hutton's book. Gina O'Connor of the University of Colorado praised the intricate nature of Hutton's investigation, arguing that its purpose was twofold; both inspiring further, in-depth investigation and weave together a picture of the cultural milieu from which Wicca could emerge. She noted however that Hutton had failed to examine any influence on early Wicca from the countries neighbouring England, and wondered whether further investigation would reveal that England was not the only home of Pagan Witchcraft. She furthermore remains unconvinced by Hutton's argument that Gardner was the definitive founder of Wicca, but nevertheless proclaims that whether one accepts Hutton's arguments or not, his book remains the \"most comprehensive and readable\" of its kind.\n\"The Pomegranate\" also published a review of Hutton's tome authored by Sarah Whedon of the University of Colorado. Noting that it was unparalleled, she believed that it was a valuable addition to the growing field of Pagan studies, being written in an entertaining and meticulous manner. She nevertheless believed that it contained problems, for instance disagreeing with Hutton's statement that Madame Blavatsky was ultimately a Christian and believing that he had left some historical sections underdeveloped. She notes that because he is dealing with the hidden history of a mystery religion, Hutton has had to be selective in what information he decided to publish and which he kept from publication, believing that this might annoy many readers. Like O'Connor, she notes that Hutton has opened up multiple new lines of inquiry for further research, but feels that his final chapter, the sociological analysis of Wicca, was disappointing. She nevertheless thought that these criticisms were \"minor\" in comparison to the contribution to Pagan studies that the work brought.\n\nIn 2009, Hidden Publishing released an edited volume in honour of Ronald Hutton and his \"Triumph of the Moon\", entitled \"Ten Years of Triumph of the Moon: A Collection of Essays\". The idea was developed by the historian Dave Evans, who felt that \"the tenth birthday of something so important needed to be celebrated in some way.\" After initial attempts to organise an academic conference failed due to a lack of funds, Evans decided to put together a book in commemoration containing papers from a variety of academics working in the fields of Pagan studies or Western Esoteric history. In the introduction, Evans related that:\n\nThe response from the Pagan community was somewhat mixed. Many Pagans embraced his work, with the prominent Wiccan Elder Frederic Lamond referring to it as \"an authority on the history of Gardnerian Wicca\". The Pagan researcher Michael G. Lloyd, writing in his biography of Eddie Buczynski, described Hutton's book as \"groundbreaking\". One Pagan internet reviewer going by the pseudonym of Stryder called it \"an outstanding and readable scholarly book\", and stating that \"Hutton maintains a balanced and objective view of the history of Wicca, and always remains respectful of neo-Pagan beliefs\", ultimately giving it four stars out of five.\n\nPublic criticism came from the practising Wiccan Jani Farrell-Roberts, who took part in a published debate with Hutton in \"The Cauldron\" magazine in 2003. Farrell-Roberts was of the opinion that in his works, Hutton dismissed Margaret Murray's theories about the Witch-Cult using Norman Cohn's theories, which she believed to be heavily flawed. She stated that \"he is... wrongly cited as an objective neutral and a 'non-pagan' for he happens to be a very active member of the British Pagan community\" who \"had taken on a mission to reform modern paganism by removing from it a false history and sense of continuance\".\n\nIn 2010, a New Zealander and Alexandrian Wiccan High Priest named Ben Whitmore published a short book criticising both Hutton and \"Triumph of the Moon\". Entitled \"Trials of the Moon: Reopening the Case for Historical Witchcraft\", Whitmore's book was self-published by the Auckland-based Briar Books. In stating his case, Whitmore related that whilst he would agree with Hutton that Wicca is \"largely a reinvention\" of ancient paganism, he \"disagree[d] with several of Hutton's supporting claims, and believe his case in overstated and deeply misleading.\" Describing Hutton as \"a maverick historian\" with a \"far more conservative\" take on the history of witchcraft than most of his fellows, Whitmore argues that in \"Triumph of the Moon\", Hutton has \"swept aside significant unresolved questions, significant contrary evidence and whole fields of potential inquiry.\"\n\nWhitmore starts his argument by claiming that Hutton misrepresents the historical consensus of those who have studied the witch trials in the Early Modern period, highlighting the work of historians like Carlo Ginzburg, Gustav Henningsen, Gábor Klaniczay and Bengt Ankarloo, who argued that the witch trials were influenced by a substratum of pre-Christian shamanistic beliefs. Moving on, he criticises Hutton for failing to provide a solid definition of witchcraft, and then argues that, contrary to Hutton's claims, many Great Goddess cults existed in the ancient world. Proceeding to defend the ideas of ancient gods of death and resurrection put forward by James Frazer, Whitmore then looks at the British cunning folk, arguing that again Hutton made mistakes, in doing so highlighting the works of historians Emma Wilby and Éva Pócs.\n\nMoving on, Whitmore argues that Hutton unfairly demonised those whose ideas he criticises, such as Margaret Murray, Matilda Joslyn Gage and Charles Leland, and then criticises Hutton's discussion of ceremonial magic. Critiquing Hutton's study of Dorothy Clutterbuck by making reference to the work of Philip Heselton, Whitemore then argues that Hutton is overly sympathetic to Christianity, at the expense of his treatment of ancient paganism, before criticising Hutton for too readily believing that folklore from the Christian era is not a pre-Christian survival. In the penultimate chapter, Whitemore lists the various critiques of Hutton's other books, quoting Max Dashu and Asphodel Long's criticisms of Hutton's \"The Pagan Religions of the Ancient British Isles\" (1991), Hutton's debate with J. D. Hill on Lindow Man and his public disagreements with Don Frew and Jani Farrell-Roberts.\n\nHutton responded to these criticisms in a 2010 paper entitled \"Writing the History of Witchcraft: A Personal View\", published in \"\". Hutton was critical of Whitmore's work, characterising it as an attempt to \"destroy my reputation as an authority upon the history of Paganism and witchcraft, at least among Pagans, and especially belief in the arguments of \"Triumph\".\" Noting that Whitmore \"makes no attempt to construct an alternate history\" to that presented in \"Triumph\", Hutton accuses Whitmore of carrying out \"very little research\" into primary source material, instead basing his arguments on \"secondary texts of varying quality\". Contesting some of Whitmore's claims, Hutton then criticises Whitmore's final chapter, which he calls a \"meanspirited\" collection of \"every criticism that he has been able to find of \"anything\" that I have written.\" He went on to challenge Whitmore on this, asking why his work in \"Triumph of the Moon\" had not been criticised by \"leading figures of British and American Paganism\" and by \"professional historians, archaeologists, anthropologists, classicists, and literary experts\" if it had been as flawed as Whitmore claims.\n\nUltimately, Hutton remarked that he felt \"distressed to have failed Wiccans like Ben Whitmore by not providing the kind of history that they feel that they need.\" Believing that there had been \"no necessary collision between us\", Hutton felt that had Whitmore simply focused on arguing that \"there was now room for a book which emphasised the richness of the ancient and medieval images and texts on which Pagans could still imaginatively draw\", he would have enthusiastically supported him.\n\nIn a 2011 interview with the Australian academic Caroline Tully, Hutton responded to Whitmore's criticism that he was a \"maverick historian\", relating that \"within the academic world the term carries only negative connotations, of eccentricity, marginality and controversy. My own career has, on the contrary, been remarkably orthodox for a professional scholar, while my work has actually provoked less controversy among my fellow professionals than that of most university-based historians.\"\n\nIn her review of \"Trials of the Moon\" published in \"The Pomegranate: The International Journal of Pagan Studies\", the academic Peg Aloi noted that whilst Whitmore came across as being \"clearly intelligent and well-read\", he was neither a historian nor an academic, and that subsequently \"Trials of the Moon\" \"demonstrates repeatedly how unfamiliar he is with how research and scholarly writing are done.\" Feeling that Whitmore's \"primary technique\" was a \"consistent tone of condescension and sarcasm\" directed against Hutton, Aloi was largely critical of Whitmore's book, noting that his \"transparency of motive, the petulant language, the megalomaniacal attitude: all of these tonalities undermine the text to an extent that it's very hard to take it seriously.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34962464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34962464", "title": "Tooth Fairy 2", "text": "Tooth Fairy 2\n\nTooth Fairy 2 is a 2012 Canadian-American comedy film directed by Alex Zamm and starring Larry the Cable Guy as the main lead. It is the sequel to the 2010 film \"Tooth Fairy\", starring Dwayne Johnson. It was released direct-to-video on DVD and Blu-ray on March 6, 2012.\n\nLarry Guthrie (Larry the Cable Guy), a dreamer from a small town, is awarded the title of 'Metro County Miracle'. While on his way to a child's birthday party, Larry and his girlfriend Brooke (Erin Beute) stop at a raffle for a Camaro convertible. Larry puts his name in the raffle, against Brooke's will, and wins the chance to get the car. In order to win, Larry has three chances to knock down two bowling pins on either side of the lane. On his third try, with both bowling pins left, he slips on nacho cheese sauce and successfully knocks down the pins with the bowling ball. \n\nSome time later, after Larry and Brooke end their relationship, Larry finds out that Brooke is engaged to the hot shot of the town, Beaugaurd 'Bo' Billings (David Mackey). Bo Billings is a valid candidate for mayor of the town, which motivates Larry to attempt to win her back. \n\nIn order to win back Brooke's affection, Larry volunteers at the local after school program that Brooke runs. On his first day volunteering, he tells one of the children that the Tooth Fairy isn't real, upsetting the little boy and making him doubt the realness of the Tooth Fairy. \n\nThat night Larry is approached by a Tooth Fairy, who tells him he is a substitute Tooth Fairy, and must collect ten teeth in ten days. Larry is given magic dust to help him, and is told if he fails to collect ten teeth, his greatest memory will be taken away. \n\nLarry awakes from what he thought was a dream, but soon finds out he was wrong. The following night, he turns into the Tooth Fairy and goes to collect his first tooth. He manages to collect it, with some difficulty but is very proud of his abilities. The next night he turns into the Tooth Fairy again. \n\nDuring this time, he is beginning to make improvements at the after school program, helping them raise money for new supplies. Brooke is starting to warm up to him, and tells him she is happy with what he has done. He then offers to go out and buy the supplies with the money they made, in hopes to impress Brooke further. \n\nShortly after Larry collects the supplies for the program, he turns into the Tooth Fairy and is forced to serve his duties. While he is collecting a tooth, Bo steals the supplies, in order to make Larry look bad. When Larry returns from collecting the tooth, he is shocked to find his car empty, and has to break the news to Brooke and the kids the next day. \n\nSoon after and feeling discouraged, Larry decides to quit his job as the Tooth Fairy and lose what he thought was his greatest memory. When he finds out that winning the Metro County Miracle wasn't his greatest memory, he is confused. He decides to reclaim his role as the Tooth Fairy, with little time to spare. \n\nAfter successfully collecting the remainder of the teeth, and restoring the children's beliefs in the Tooth Fairy, Larry finds out that his greatest memory was, in fact, one shared with Brooke. Larry decides to tell Brooke this, and when she asks Bo for his greatest memory she is disappointed. She ends her engagement with Bo and rekindles her love with Larry. \n\nIn the end, Larry and Brooke get married and are expecting a child, while Larry is still secretly a fill in Tooth Fairy. \n\nWhen Larry is transformed into a Tooth Fairy, he is initially given a pink ballerina-like outfit. Larry later asks for a new outfit. Some of the outfits offered to Larry included a pink superhero outfit, a pink cowboy outfit, and a pink Statue of Liberty outfit. Nix, the head Tooth Fairy, then offers him a pair of overalls, which Larry accepts. As with the other prior outfits, the overalls given to Larry were also pink, which Larry initially complains about but later becomes more fond of.\n\n\nThe film received many mixed reviews from critics. It currently holds a 36% on Rotten Tomatoes, with no Tomatometer rating.\n\n"}
{"id": "47612088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47612088", "title": "Video film era", "text": "Video film era\n\nThe Video film era, also known as the home video era, is a period in Nigerian cinema, typically from the late 1980s/early 1990s to mid 2010s, when Nigerian films were made using affordable video format. The video boom era emerged after the downturn of the Golden era of the Nigerian cinema in the late 1980s. The term \"Home video\" stems from the concept of staying at home to watch the films, in contrast to films of the Golden Age which were watched at the movie theatres.\n\nThe beginnings of the video film market in Nigeria is traced back to the 1980s when television productions thrived. Many of the television productions often found their ways into VHS, leading to the development of a small scale informal video trade. This method was adopted and built on by producers and distributors at Alaba market to reinvent the film industry which was at the time facing a major decline. The first film produced on video in Nigeria is 1988's \"Soso Meji\", produced by Ade Ajiboye. Subsequently, Alade Aromire produced \"Ekun\" (1989) on video. However, the boom experienced in this era is generally believed to have been kick started by Kenneth Nnebue's \"Living in Bondage\" (1992), although some historians claim otherwise.\n\nThis era marked an all-time peak in the number of Nigerian film productions. As at 2004, at least four to five films were produced every day in Nigeria, and the movies already dominated television screens across the African continent and by extension, the Caribbeans and the diaspora, with the movies significantly influencing cultures in many African nations, and the film actors becoming household names across the continent. The boom also led to backlash against Nigerian films in several countries, who supposedly wanted to prevent \"recolonization\" by Nigeria (or \"Nigerialization of Africa\"). There have been reported cases of raids on shops selling Nigerian films, and Governments who have introduced protectionist measures, such as introducing spurious taxes for production houses and/or actors who want to shoot films in their countries, as well as outright banning of Nigerian films.\n\nIn this era, Nigeria's film industry grew to become a big employer of labour in Nigeria, providing over a million jobs and contributing about 5% of the GDP. At the peak of the era at around 2008, the industry had become the second largest producer of films, releasing approximately 200 video films monthly. However at this point, the Nigerian film industry had degenerated into a very unprofessional industry, with the invasion of practitioners who had no training in filmmaking. Copyright infringement was also at its peak, with production houses running at a loss and closing down their outfits. This development led to the need to revamp the film industry, with the birth of New Nigerian cinema.\n\nThe emergence of the video film market in Nigeria is traced back to the 1980s when television productions thrived. Jimi Odumosu's \"Evil Encounter\", a 1980 horror film released directly on television, was the first production to be a pointer to how lucrative making film directly on video can be. The film was extensively promoted before being aired on the television, and as a result, had streets flooded the following morning with video copies of the recorded broadcast. It was reported that the film became an instant hit at Alaba market , a commercial district which later became the hub of video distribution in this period and also eventually became a hub of copyright violation in Nigeria. Since \"Evil Encounter\", it became common, especially in Southern Nigerian cities to see video copies of recorded television programmes traded on the streets.\n\nThis method was adopted and built on by producers and distributors at Alaba Market to reinvent the film industry, since the Nigerian cinema culture was facing a major decline. The first film produced on video in Nigeria was 1988's \"Soso Meji\", produced by Ade Ajiboye. The film was also screened at the few available theatres at the time. Subsequently, Alade Aromire produced \"Ekun\" (1989) on video, which was screened at the National Theatre, Iganmu. However, the boom experienced in this era is generally believed to have been kick started by Kenneth Nnebue's \"Living in Bondage\" (1992). Nnebue had an excess number of imported video cassettes which he then used to shoot his first film on a Video camera. Although \"Living in Bondage\" is often touted in the media as the \"first commercial videofilm\", many historians have argued that the video film industry was already booming before \"Living in Bondage\", therefore can't be the first commercial film. Furthermore, Nnabue, himself, had been producing Yoruba-language video films before \"Living in Bondage\", with his first film being \"Aje Ni Iya Mi\" (1989), which was also very profitable.\n\nOther films released in the early period of this era also include: \"Circle of Doom\" (1993) and \"Glamour Girls\" (1994). Film people who pioneered this period, often called the \"second generations\", include: Amaka Igwe, Alade Aromire, Zeb Ejiro, Chico Ejiro, The Amata brothers, Femi Lasode, Liz Benson, Kenneth Nnebue, Richard Mofe Damijo, Zack Orji, Pete Edochie, Sam Loco Efe, US Galadima, Yinka Quadri, Jide Kosoko, Omotola Jalade, Genevieve Nnaji, Kenneth Okonkwo, Kanayo O. Kanayo, Bob-Manuel Udokwu, along with others who were part of the Golden era, such as Tunde Kelani, Olu Jacobs, Joke Silva and amongst others.\n\nIn 1993, the National Film Festival was held for the first time in Nigeria, and the industry's film output score sheet recorded moderate figures of about fifty Yoruba-language films, twenty five English-language films, five Hausa-language films, and One Igbo-language film. Nigerian Film Institute, Jos was established by the Nigerian Government in November 1995 to help develop young Nigerian talents in the art of filmmaking. As at this time in 1995, 177 video films were recorded by the Nigerian Censors Board, a number which further increased to 233 in 1996. It reduced in 1997 to 214, but in 1998 increased again to 356. The number of films registered in 1999 was 389.\n\nThe number of Nigerian video films registered in 2000 almost doubled the 1999 value, with 712 films. It continued to further increase in 2001 through 2002, with 974 and 1,018 respectively. It then reduced once more to 761 in 2003. Number of video films from Nigeria reached all-time high in 2005, with the number of films registered reaching 1,711. Over the years, the viewership of Nigerian films spread throughout Africa, and with a massive audience in Europe, and Asia.\n\nAs at 2004, at least four to five films were produced every day in Nigeria. Nigerian movies now already dominate television screens across the African continent and by extension, the diaspora. The film actors also became household names across the continent, and the movies have significantly influenced cultures in many African nations; from way of dressing to speech and usage of Nigerian slangs. This was attributed to the fact that Nigerian films told \"relatable\" stories, which made foreign films to gather dusts on the shelves of video stores, even though they cost much less.\n\nThis boom however also led to backlash against Nigerian films in several countries; For instance, there have been reported cases of shops selling Nigerian films being raided by the police in Ghana; according to them, \"they are struggling not to be colonized by Nigerian movies\". Several other Governments also introduced protectionist measures, some of which include introducing spurious taxes for production houses who want to shoot films in their countries. In July 2010, Ghana started demanding US$1,000 from visiting Nigerian actors and US$5,000 from producers and directors. The Democratic Republic of Congo had also tried to ban Nigerian films. Jean Rouch, a champion of indigenous art in Niger, compared Nollywood to AIDS. He stated that there seems to be a \"Nigerianization\" of Africa, worrying that the whole continent has come to \"snap its fingers the Nigerian way\".\n\nAccording to the Filmmakers Cooperative of Nigeria, every film in Nigeria had a potential audience of 15 million people in Nigeria and about 5 million outside Nigeria. In no time, the industry became the third largest producer of films in the world. However, this didn't translate to an overtly commercial film industry when compared to other major film hubs across the world; the worth of the industry was approximated at just about US$250 million, since most of the films produced were cheaply made. The film industry regardless became a major employer in Nigeria. As at 2007, with a total number of 6,841 registered video parlours and an estimated of about 500,000 unregistered ones, the estimated revenue generated by sales and rentals of movies in Lagos State alone was estimated to be ₦804 million (US$5 million) per week, which adds up to an estimated ₦33.5 billion (US$209 million) revenue for Lagos State per annum. Approximately 700,000 discs were sold in Alaba market per day, with the total sales revenue generated by the film industry in Nigeria estimated at ₦522 billion (US$3 billion) per annum, with broadcast content valued at ₦250 billion (US$1.6 billion).\n\nNigeria's film industry became one of the biggest employers of labour in Nigeria, providing over a million jobs and contributing about 5% of the GDP. At the peak of the video era at around 2008, the industry had become the second largest producer of films, releasing approximately 200 video films monthly. However, after this point, the Nigerian film industry began to degenerate into a \"visionless\" industry, with the invasion of several people without any knowledge of filmmaking.\n\nAccording to director Lancelot Oduwa Imasuen, films could now be shot in four days; Chico Ejiro, who directed over 80 films in a 5-year period, was constantly reported to have bragged that he could complete production on a movie in as little as three days. \"anybody can be a film maker in today's Nollywood\", filmmaker Mahmood Ali-Balogun, once commented bitterly.\n\nSeveral actors have noted situations where they show up on a set and the script was being written whilst they were on set, and all their scenes shot in one day. Also, actors have confirmed usual scenarios of having to wear their own clothes and do their own make up for film shoots. It was reported that star actors, often worked on several films at the same time, as a result won't show up when they're supposed to. Oftentimes, shooting is also delayed by local thugs, who extort money for \"protection\" before they would allow filming to take place in their \"territories\". The industry was also criticized in this era for its themes, which often projected witchcraft and black magic excessively.\n\nThe UNESCO, which had previously ranked the industry as the second largest film producer in its 2008 report on \"Global Film Business\", refused to feature Nigerian films in its next report, as it considered the films \"semi-professional/informal productions\".\n\nAfter the peak in the production of films in 2005 through 2008, the numbers have been on steady decline. The decline of this mode of filmmaking has been attributed to high levels of copyright infringement, which deterred investment in video films. According to the World Bank, approximately 90 percent of the DVDs circulating Nigeria are illegal copies, with new releases enjoying just about a two-week window, known as \"Mating season\", before their unlicensed versions become massively available in the market.\n\nFilmmaker Amaka Igwe also once stated that \"piracy makes up 82 per cent of the Nigerian market,\" a problem she attributed to the inability of film distributors to understand the concept of market demand and supply. Leila Djansi also noted that distributors sometimes are in fact the major kingpins of infringement; citing situations where distributors lock up copies of the original DVDs in their shops and instead sell unauthorized copies produced by the distributors to make money for themselves, while they tell the filmmakers that their films are \"not selling\" and that they can come pick them up whenever they want to.\n\nHowever, this was not limited to just DVDs, as there also became a major increase in television networks, who began to show independently produced Nigerian films without any permission from the filmmakers. As a result of this, most investors of the \"Alaba cartel\", who control almost 90 percent stakes in the video industry, began to channel their money into other business ventures instead. The decline in this era has also been blamed on the refusal of the Government to provide support and funding, the lack of a formal and effective indigenous film distribution infrastructure, as well as, the increase in the cost of production in Nigeria.\n\nVideofilms in this era were produced on very low budgets and do not pass through the traditional theatrical run, as they were shot using cheap video cameras without the required cinematic quality, and edited with basic VCR machines. These films are usually funded by Marketers who act as the executive producers for the films; these marketers often have control on crucial areas of production, such as casting, and they make sure the films are made in a way they believe would attract the right audience and thereby recoup investments.\n\nThe films are usually produced and shot on location all over Nigeria with hotels, homes, and offices often rented out by their owners and appearing in the credits. The most popular filming locations are the cities of Lagos, Enugu, Abuja and Asaba. However, most major Nigerian cities are used for video productions, owing to the various regional industries that are present in the country. in about two to three weeks,\n\nUpon completion, the videofilms are released directly on video (known as \"Home videos\"); they are replicated into about 200,000 copies of video cassettes (and later VCDs and DVDs), and then distributed to markets, video clubs and eventually various homes. Most of the Financiers are based in a vast, chaotic market called Idumota in Lagos, while the films are distributed widely in Alaba, another market in Ojo. Other distribution centres for Home videos across the country include: Iweka Road in Onitsha, Anambra, and Pound Road in Aba, Abia. The video producers turned out movies at an astonishing rate in a year and new titles were delivered to Nigerian shops and market stalls every week, where an average video sold 50,000 copies. A hit might sell several hundred thousand.\n\nMovies in this era are mostly of the romance, drama, comedy and supernatural genres, and also few actions. Themes explored include: revenge, betrayal, love, hatred, ritual, politics and so on. They often have themes that deal with the moral dilemmas facing modern humans. Felix Muchimba states: \"the stories tend to be rather plain although very dramatic and full with emotions: the women wail and are covetous money lovers; the men are just as emotional and very revengeful\".\n\nMost of the videofilms also have a supernatural and religious theme including black magic (Juju) and the clash of modern religion with a traditional religion. Juju is a cult that is consulted for one reason or another when in need, typically psycho-medical, buttressed with the power of the supernatural. Some movies promote the Christian or Islamic faiths, and some movies are overtly evangelical. Others, however, also address questions of religious diversity.\n\nOther themes usually depicted in these films include: violent robbery, ritual performances, rivalry, conflicts, sexual violence, organized crime, prostitution, murder, greed, avarice, impatience, jealously, envy, pride, arrogance, infidelity, treachery, occultism, amongst others. Stories in these films were \"rehashed from the bowel of the Nigerian society, [as] a good number emanate from our belief systems and our tendency to attribute most things to, not ill-luck or any fault of our own but the evil machinations of wicked people. Many others focus on the get rich schemes of people today and its evil concomitants. Yet others portray the good life of ordinary Nigerians, their love and romance as well as their disappointments and pains\".\n\nWhile some praised this era of Nigerian cinema for establishing the Nigerian film industry as a viable industry, some others described it as one of the worst things to have ever happened to the Nigerian film industry, as it was an era when there was total lack of vision, standards and professionalism amongst practitioners, most of whom had no formal training in filmmaking.\n\nOne of the major criticism the Nigerian film industry received during this era is the abysmal portrayal of black magic and witch craft, thereby giving other people a skewed impression about Nigeria and to a large extent, Africa. Cultural critics have often complained about \"macabre scenes full of sorcery\" in the films. Jean Rouch, an Arts personality from Niger described Nigerian directors and producers as voodoo priests casting malign spells over audiences in other countries, and gaining more audience as a result.\n\nThe industry was also criticized for promoting lawlessness and upholding of immorality; some of the visual images depicted in 18-rated films include: sexual activities, nudity, obscenity, vulgar language (cursing), indecent dressing, murder, rape, domestic violence (especially against women), smoking, molestation and harassment. These have been argued to be injurious to the youths and the society at large.\n\n"}
{"id": "9003648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9003648", "title": "Viva América", "text": "Viva América\n\nViva América was an American musical radio program which was broadcast live over the CBS radio network and to North and South America over the La Cadena de las Américas (Network of the Americas) during the 1940s (1942–1949) in support of Pan-Americanism during World War II. It was also broadcast for the benefit of members of the armed forces in Europe during World War II over the Armed Forces Network. All broadcasts of this program were supervised under the strict government supervision of the United States Department of State and the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs (OCIAA) as part of the United States Cultural Exchange Programs initiative authorized by President Franklin D. Roosevelt (via Voice of America) during World War II through the Office for Coordination of Commercial and Cultural Relations (OCCCRBAR) and the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs directed by Nelson Rockefeller.\n\nThis imaginative program represented a unique collaboration between government and private industry during the turbulent World War II era in an effort to foster cultural exchanges and cultural diplomacy throughout the Americas as part of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Good Neighbor policy. It featured live performances of the CBS Pan American Orchestra under the musical direction of the noted conductor Alfredo Antonini. By 1945, performances by the orchestra on the CBS \"La Cadena de los Americas\" radio network were enjoyed by audiences in twenty Latin American nations and throughout North America. \n\nViva América was conceived in an effort to foster benevolent diplomatic relations throughout the Americas during World War II by showcasing the talents of a wide variety of respected professional musicians from both North and South America. In this regard, it proved to be highly successful and functioned under the direct supervision of the Department of State as a cultural exchange program (as opposed to a propaganda program). Included among the renowned soloists were: Juan Arvizu (the Mexican \"Tenor with the Silken Voice\"); Nestor Mesta Chayres (Mexican tenor - aka \"El Gitano De México\"); Eva Garza (Mexican songstress); Terig Tucci, (Argentine composer/arranger) Miguel Sandoval (Guatemaian composer/conductor), Elsa Miranda (Puerto Rican Vocalist/Actress), Los Panchos Trio (Latin vocalists) and John Serry, Sr. (an American concert accordionist and featured soloist).\nBroadcasts of this program were personally supervised by Edmund A. Chester, Vice President at the CBS network and Director of Latin-American Relations and Short Wave Broadcasting (1940 - 1948). Mr. Chester could often be found visiting the control room at the CBS broadcast studios in New York City in order to enjoy his series of live concerts and to exchange insights with his staff of musicians and recording artists. At the governmental level, they were closely monitored by the Office of Inter-American Affairs through the Office for Coordination of Commercial and Cultural Relations (OCCCRBAR) under the direction of Nelson Rockefeller and the Department of State.\n\nThe onset of the post World War II era precipitated the onset of the Cold War and the initiation of new governmental oversight of the broadcast industry. As a consequence of these developments, exclusive control for the La Cadena de las Americas was essentially transferred to the Department of State from Voice of America in 1948. As the focal point for American foreign policy shifted away from South America toward Europe broadcasts of this program were terminated (circa 1949) and the broadcasting links provided to South America by the Columbia Broadcast System CBS were eliminated..\n\nSeveral historic master disk transcriptions of this program were recorded during live broadcasts and preserved on 78 RPM vinyl disks for Voice of America. They were archived by the Department of State until the 1970s and have since passed into private collections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4192254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4192254", "title": "Walter Hilton", "text": "Walter Hilton\n\nWalter Hilton (c. 1340–45 – 24 March 1396) was an English Augustinian mystic, whose works became influential in the 15th century.\n\nWalter Hilton was born around 1340–45. Writing centuries later, an early 16th-century Carthusian, James Grenehalgh, from Lancashire, referred to Hilton as a mystic coming \"from the same region\".\n\nThere is some presumptive evidence that Hilton received some education at the University of Cambridge, This would have occurred at some time between about 1360 and 1382. Walter de Hilton, Bachelor of Civil Law, clerk of Lincoln Diocese, was granted the reservation of a canonry and prebend of Abergwili, Carmarthen, in January 1371. In January 1371 Hilton was a bachelor of law attached to the diocesan court of Ely. Some manuscripts describe Hilton as a \"commensor\" or \"inceptor decretorum\", i. e. he may have completed the studies and examinations that would have entitled him to become a master of canon law, but he did not undertake the regency that would have given him the title.\n\nIn the early 1380s, Hilton turned away from the world and became a solitary, as he mentions in his earliest extant work, the Latin letter \"De Imagine Peccati\" (\"On the Image of Sin\"). Not long after (perhaps in 1384), Hilton states in a Latin epistle of spiritual counsel, \"De Utilitate et Prerogativis Religionis\" (\"On the Usefulness and Prerogatives of Religion\"), a.k.a. \"Epistola aurea\" addressed to his friend Adam Horsley, a former officer of the Exchequer, who was about to enter the Carthusian Order, that he is himself open to the possibility of joining a religious community, but is not yet certain of his vocation. Given that Horsley entered the Community of Beauvale in 1386, it seems likely that it was around this date when Hilton joined a community – 1386 is often suggested as the date of his entry as an Augustinian Canon Regular into Thurgarton Priory in Nottinghamshire.\n\nBetween around 1386 and 1390, Hilton was probably the author of \"Epistola de Leccione, Intencione, Oracione, Meditacione et Allis\" (\"Letter on Reading, Intention, Prayer, and Meditation\"), a brief treatise in English \"Of Angels' Song\", which criticizes one aspect of Richard Rolle's spirituality, and \"The Epistle on the Mixed Life\" which instructs a devout layman concerning wealth and household responsibility, advising him not to give up his active life to become a contemplative, but to mix the two. Because of strong echoes between the \"Mixed Life\" and the first of the two books of Hilton’s major work, \"The Scale of Perfection\", both were probably written about the same time, in the late 1380s. Hilton may also have translated \"The Prickynge of Love\" (also known as \"Stimulus Amoris\", an expanded version of a book originally by the 13th-century Franciscan James of Milan, which by that time was passing under the name of Bonaventure), though this remains a matter of dispute.\n\nIn his final years (from c. 1390 until c. 1396), Hilton probably wrote his Latin letter \"Epistola ad Quemdam Seculo Renunciare Volentem\" (\"To Someone Wanting to Renounce the World\"), and a brief piece on scruples entitled \"Firmissime crede\". He produced the English version of \"Eight Chapters on Perfection\", a translation of a now lost Latin work by the Franciscan Lluis de Font (or Luis de Fontibus), an Aragonese Franciscan who had a regency in theology at Cambridge in either 1391–3 or 1392–4. Also in this period, Hilton produced the second book of \"The Scale of Perfection\". According to manuscript tradition, Hilton died on 24 March 1396 as an Augustinian Canon Regular at Thurgarton Priory. However, this manuscript was written much later than the history it reports, and it contains a number of historical mistakes.\n\nThe first book of \"The Scale of Perfection\" (the title is editorial, appearing only on half the manuscripts of Book One of the \"Scale\") is addressed to a woman recently enclosed as an anchoress, providing her with appropriate spiritual exercises; the bulk of its 93 chapters deal with the extirpation of the \"foul image of sin\" in the soul – the perversion of the image of the Trinity in the three spiritual powers of Mind, Reason and Will (reflecting the Father, Son and Holy Spirit respectively, according to a tradition drawn from St Augustine) – through a series of meditations on the seven deadly sins. The second book, which opens by addressing itself to Hilton's former reader, who, he says, has further questions, seems from its style and content rather to be addressed to a larger, perhaps more sophisticated audience; its major themes are reformation of the soul in faith alone and in both faith and feeling. The latter is described in an extended metaphor as a spiritual journey to Jerusalem, or \"peace\" in meditation, a gift which is also its own giver, Christ. The first book of the \"Scale\" was apparently written some time before the second and was circulated independently.\n\nThe \"Mixed Life\" occasionally appears with the \"Scale\" in fifteenth-century manuscripts, and was printed by de Worde in 1494 as a 'third book' of the \"Scale\", possibly at the desire of Lady Margaret, although the \"Mixed Life\" occurs in only half of the surviving copies of that printing. All later printings of the \"Scale\" also included the \"Mixed Life\".\n\nHilton also wrote three other Latin letters of spiritual guidance, the \"Epistola de Leccione, Intencione, Oracione, Meditacione et Allis\", the \"Epistola ad Quemdam Seculo Renunciare Volentem\" and \"Firmissime crede\", as well as a scholastic \"quodlibet\" on the appropriateness of reverence shown to images in churches, a practice criticised by Lollards. He also wrote commentaries on the Psalm texts \"Qui Habitat\" and \"Bonum Est\" (Psalms 90.1 and 91.2), and perhaps on the Canticle \"Benedictus\" (Luke 1.68) as well.\n\nHilton's spiritual writings were influential during the 15th century in England. They were used extensively shortly after his death in the \"Speculum spiritualium\". The most famous was the \"Scale of Perfection\", which survives in some 62 manuscripts, including 14 of a Latin translation (the \"Liber de nobilitate anime\") made around 1400 by Hilton's contemporary in Cambridge and Ely, the Carmelite friar Thomas Fishlake (or Fyslake). In this translation the \"Scale\" became the first work written originally in English to circulate on the European continent. The \"Scale\" and \"Mixed Life\" were printed by Wynkyn de Worde in Westminster in 1494, at the request of Lady Margaret Beaufort, Countess of Richmond and Derby, mother of King Henry VII, and five more times before the English Reformation of the 1530s.\n\nWith the revival of the Roman Catholic Church in England in the 19th century, a modernised version of a 1659 edition was issued by Fr J. B. Dalgairns in 1870. Evelyn Underhill published an edition of the \"Scale\" in 1923.\n\nHilton is honoured in the Church of England on 24 March and in the Episcopal Church (USA) on 28 September, together with Richard Rolle and Margery Kempe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279802", "title": "Window seat (type of sofa)", "text": "Window seat (type of sofa)\n\nA window seat is a miniature sofa without a back, intended to fill the recess of a window. In the latter part of the 18th century, when tall narrow sash windows were almost universal, the window seat was in high favor, and was no doubt in keeping with the formalism of Georgian interiors. It differed much in decorative detail, but little in form. It stood as high from the floor as a chair; the two ends were identical, with a roll-over curve, more or less pronounced. The seats and ends were usually upholstered in rich fabrics which in many cases have remained intact. The legs followed the fashion in chairs and were square and tapered, or, somewhat later, round and reeded. Hepplewhite and the brothers Adam designed many graceful window seats, but they were produced by all the cabinet-makers of the period.\n"}
{"id": "6200864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6200864", "title": "Winter City", "text": "Winter City\n\nWinter City or Winter Cities is a concept for communities in northern latitudes that encourages them to plan their transportation systems, buildings, and recreation project around the idea of using their infrastructure during all four seasons, rather than just two seasons (summer and autumn).\n\nThe Livable Winter Cities Association was formed in 1982 by a group of people from across North America and once had chapters in Minneapolis, Ottawa, and Anchorage. Members included cities, planners, architects, engineers, and other interested persons from around the world. From 1982-2005, the Association organized conferences, published books and the quarterly magazine \"Winter Cities\". As a non-profit managed by a dedicated but small group of volunteers, the Livable Winter Cities Association, in the end, struggled to maintain its mission. The Association mission is revived now through the efforts of the Winter Cites Institute, whose members include municipalities, community leaders and design professionals from around the world.\n\nIn communities and regions where the concept of embracing winter has taken hold, it has made a dramatic impact on the lives of residents, especially in terms of improving winter livability, increasing tourism and strengthening the economy during what had been a traditional down time. The concept has been responsible for helping many communities see the opportunities that winter offers and helping many residents in the north acknowledge that winter can be an enjoyable time of year and that not everyone need move to warmer climes from November through May. \n\nIt has often been said that many communities in northern latitudes are living in denial of their northern climate. As evidence, they point to the fact that many northern cities are designed in much the same way that southern/warm-climate cities are designed.\n\nNorthern communities or “winter cities” have great opportunities to mitigate negative effects of the winter season while reinforcing the many positive aspects to create a vibrant, sustainable and livable environment for a prosperous future. The sustainability of winter cities requires a creative approach that addresses the problems of snow and cold while enhancing the advantages, opportunities and beauty of the winter season. A positive approach benefits the attitudes of residents, and bolsters the community’s ability to attract new business and residents.\n\nThe mission of the Winter Cities Institute is to provide information, resources and networking opportunities for those who desire to make northern communities more livable and sustainable. Their goal is to be the best source for information, research, reports, plans and news about winter cities from around the northern world, focusing on how to make the best of the winter season. \n\nThe membership includes architects, planners, landscape architects, engineers, elected and appointed city officials, parks and recreation professionals, economic developers, and community leaders and activists interested in learning new approaches and exchanging success stories. \n\nThe Winter Cities Institute website offers a vast collection of materials about winter cities. A selection of resource materials is provided at no cost, however, membership provides access to the large library of the Winter Cities Institute.\n\nWinter is often perceived as a negative force that generates inconvenience and added cost, in part due to cities and buildings planned and constructed as if they were in a southern, warmer location.\nCity and town planning, site design, transportation and infrastructure engineering, and architecture can all benefit through the application of \"Winter City\" design principles that work with nature rather than against it, in order to make winter a positive part of a four-season lifestyle. The goal is to create livability, reduce human discomfort, promote energy efficiency and the economic sustainability of northern places.\n\n"}
{"id": "18980436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18980436", "title": "Writer's Market", "text": "Writer's Market\n\n\"Writer's Market\" (\"WM\") is an annual resource book for writers who wish to sell their work. The publication is released by \"Writer's Digest\" Books (an imprint of F+W Media) and usually hits bookstores around the summer time of each year. \"Writer's Market\" was first published in 1921, and is often called \"The Bible for writers\" or \"the freelancer's Bible.\"\n\nFor nearly a 100 years, the book has listed thousands of markets for writers who wish to sell their work. Said markets include magazines, newspapers, theaters (for stage plays), production companies, contests of all types, greeting card companies, literary agents, and more. Each listing has detailed instructions on how to submit work, relevant contact information, as well as what work each listing seeks.\n\nThe upfront section of \"WM\" has more than a dozen articles on writing topics, such as starting a freelancing business, syndication, freelancing for magazines, and a chart filled with typical payment rates concerning various writing assignments.\n\n\"Writer's Market\" is one of nine \"market books\" published each year by Writer's Digest Books. Others include: \"Guide to Literary Agents\", \"Photographer's Market\", \"Children's Writer's & Illustrator's Market\", \"Novel & Short Story Writer's Market\", \"Artist and Graphic Designer's Market\", \"Poet's Market\", \"Screenwriter's & Playwright's Market\" and \"Songwriter's Market\". Each book is designed to give writers instructions on how to submit freelance work to markets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11380393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11380393", "title": "Xanadu (musical)", "text": "Xanadu (musical)\n\nXanadu is a musical comedy with a book by Douglas Carter Beane and music and lyrics by Jeff Lynne and John Farrar, based on the 1980 film of the same name, which was, in turn, inspired by the 1947 Rita Hayworth film \"Down to Earth\", a sequel to the 1941 movie \"Here Comes Mr. Jordan\", which was an adaptation of the play \"Heaven Can Wait\" by Harry Segall. The title is a reference to the poem \"Kubla Khan, or A Vision in a Dream. A Fragment,\" by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. Xanadu is the name of the Chinese province where Khan establishes his pleasure garden in the poem.\n\nThe musical opened on Broadway in 2007 and ran for over 500 performances. It earned an Outer Critics Circle Award for Best Musical and a Drama Desk Award for Best Book. It was also nominated for Tony Awards for Best Musical and Best Book. The US Tour officially began on December 15, 2009, in the Orange County Performing Arts Center. A Korean production has opened.\n\nThe 1980 film on which \"Xanadu\" is based barely broke even at the box office and received uniformly unfavorable reviews, but the soundtrack was a commercial hit, as were several of the songs singularly. Although the film was nominated for six Razzies, winning one for worst director, it became a cult classic. Announcements that the film would be adapted as a Broadway show drew skepticism and even derision, even from Carter Beane, who adapted the script.\n\nAccording to Beane, in rewriting the script for the musical, he was influenced not only by the 1980 \"Xanadu\" film, but also by the 1981 fantasy film \"Clash of the Titans\", prompting him to add the subplot \"in which Kira’s jealous sister-muses doom her to fall in love with a mortal, incurring the wrath of their father, Zeus.\" He has noted that the stage musical focuses more on the Greek mythology plotlines but has \"a lot of [parody] references to the movie.\"\n\nThe score retains the hits from the film and also includes new arrangements by Eric Stern of \"I'm Alive,\" \"Magic,\" \"Suddenly,\" and \"Dancin',\" as well as integrating two classic Electric Light Orchestra songs, \"Strange Magic\" and \"Evil Woman,\" plus Farrar's \"Have You Never Been Mellow.\"\n\nThe musical was first given a workshop production and backers' audition at the Minetta Lane Theater in Greenwich Village, New York City, in January 2007, featuring performances by Jane Krakowski, Tony Roberts, and Cheyenne Jackson. Readings of the stage version had previously been held on April 21 and August 3, 2006, at New World Stages in Manhattan.\n\nKrakowski and Jackson were cast in their respective leading roles of Clio/Kira and Sonny Malone for the Broadway run, but both eventually dropped out. Jane cited her TV shooting schedule on the NBC show \"30 Rock,\" while Jackson cited post-production commitments for his film \"Hysteria\".\n\n\"Xanadu\" began previews on Broadway on May 23, 2007, at the Helen Hayes Theatre and opened on July 10, 2007. The production was directed by Christopher Ashley and choreographed by Dan Knechtges, with sets by David Gallo, lighting by Howell Binkley, costumes by David Zinn, sound by T. Richard Fitzgerald and Carl Cassella and projections by Zachary Borovay. The key producers were Robert Ahrens, Tara Smith and Brian Swibel.\n\nThe production included a considerable amount of skating for the characters Kira and Sonny, and the set extended over the orchestra pit partly into the audience. The show was presented partially in the round, with some audience members seated on benches on the stage. Like several other recent Broadway shows, a small cast was used, and the relatively short show (90 minutes) was played without intermission. James Carpinello was cast as Sonny and played the role during May and June previews. The actor injured his foot rollerskating during a rehearsal on June 12, 2007. Cast members Andre Ward and Curtis Holbrook alternated in the role of Sonny until Carpinello's replacement, Cheyenne Jackson, assumed the role on June 21, 2007.\n\nThe opening night cast included Jackson as Sonny Malone, Kerry Butler as Kira, Tony Roberts as Danny Maguire, and Jackie Hoffman and Mary Testa as \"evil\" Muse sisters, part of a new plot twist introduced in the Broadway version. Olivia Newton-John (star of the film) and composer John Farrar attended on opening night and joined the cast on stage during the curtain call. Whoopi Goldberg replaced Hoffman for a six-week run on July 28.\n\nThe production closed on September 28, 2008, after 49 previews and 513 performances.\n\nThe tour opened at the La Jolla Playhouse in San Diego, California, on November 11, 2008, and played until December 31, 2008. A Chicago run of the production began in January 2009 preceding the U.S. national tour. The Chicago run ended on March 29, 2009, and the production ran in Tokyo for a month. Elizabeth Stanley played Kira, and Max von Essen portrayed Sonny in the La Jolla, Chicago, and Tokyo runs of the production. The new U.S. national tour opened on December 15, 2009, in Costa Mesa, California, with Stanley and Von Essen.\n\nThe producers of \"Xanadu\" licensed the exclusive Korean language rights to the show to Tin Tin Entertainment for two years. A production in Seoul opened in 2008. It starred Super Junior members Heechul and Kangin, rotating in the role of Sunny and played from on 9 September to 23 November 2008 at Doosan Art Center.\n\nThe Philippine production of \"Xanadu\" was mounted by Atlantis Productions, who staged the musical beginning September 3–19, 2010, with Rachel Alejandro and Felix Rivera in the roles of Clio/Kira and Sonny, respectively.\n\nThe Australian production opened on March 1, 2011, in a big top called the \"Grand Xanadu Marquee\" in the Melbourne Docklands. The roles of Clio/Kira, Sonny, Danny/Zeus, Calliope/Aphrodite and Melpomene/Medusa were played by Christie Whelan, Sam Ludeman, John McTernan, Susan-Ann Walker, and Cherine Peck, respectively.\n\nA London production opened at the Southwark Playhouse Theatre in October 2015 produced by David Ian Ltd. This production added Olivia Newton John's popular hit \"Physical\".\n\nA Sydney, Australia production commenced performances on May 12, 2016 at the Hayes Theatre. The production, directed and choreographed by Nathan M. Wright, starred Jaime Hadwen (Clio/Kira), Ainsley Melham (Sonny), Rob Thomas (Danny) with Jayde Westaby, Francine Cain, James Maxfield, Dion Bilios, Kay Hoyos and Catty Hamilton. Musical Direction was by Andrew Bevis and the production was produced by Matthew Henderson (Matthew Management).\n\nThe show was staged at the American Theater Company in Chicago, Illinois, for seven weeks in 2016.\n\nThe show also had a successful thirteen week run in 2017-2018 at the Civic Light Opera in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; three weeks were added to the original run because of demand for ticket sales. Pittsburgh is the hometown of Xanadu film star Gene Kelly, and the musical was done in part as homage to the former screen great and Pittsburgh Civic Light Opera honorary chairman of the board.\n\nIt is 1980, and chalk artist Sonny Malone is dissatisfied with his sidewalk mural of the Greek Muses (daughters of Zeus) and determines to kill himself. On Mount Olympus, Clio (pronounced \"Kleye-o\"), the youngest, perkiest Muse, convinces her six sisters (two of whom are men), to travel to Venice Beach (rising out of the sidewalk mural) to inspire Sonny (\"I'm Alive\"). Zeus's rules require that Muses must always be disguised from mortals. Clio has the idea to wear roller skates, leg warmers, and sport an Australian accent, and the other muses agree. Clio changes her name to something contemporary: \"Kira\". Quickly inspired (\"Magic\"), Sonny decides that he can combine all the arts and \"something athletic\" all into one spectacular entertainment: a roller disco.\n\nTwo of Clio's sisters, Melpomene (the oldest sister) and Calliope, are jealous that Clio (although the youngest) is the leader of the Muses and that Zeus had promised \"Xanadu\" to Clio, although no one knows exactly what that entails (\"Evil Woman\"). So they plot to discredit Clio and cause her banishment by tricking her into breaking one of Zeus's rules: a Muse must not fall in love with a mortal, so they will curse \"Kira\" and Sonny to fall in love.\n\nMeanwhile, Sonny finds a good location for the roller disco, a long-abandoned theater in the Fairfax district of Los Angeles called \"Xanadu.\"\n\"Kira\" inspires him to locate the owner in the phone book (\"Suddenly\"), and they set up a meeting with real estate mogul Danny Maguire, who used to be a big band clarinetist before he started in the real estate game.\n\nSonny visits hard-hearted Danny in his posh office in downtown Los Angeles and tries to convince him to donate the theater for the roller disco, because it would bring the arts to the Fairfax district and drive up real estate values. But Danny scoffs, even though he had plans to open the theater himself, once upon a time. As Sonny leaves, \"Kira\" arrives, jogging Danny's memories of an old love and dance partner of his, who looked suspiciously like \"Kira,\" named Kitty(\"Whenever You're Away from Me\"). Kitty tells Danny that although he had let his greed stop him from pursuing his dream to open the theater 35 years ago, he has a chance to redeem himself now by opening the roller disco with Sonny. Danny finds Sonny and tells him that if he can get the disco up and running in one day, he'll give him 25% of the take from the Disco (\"Dancin'\"). Excited, Sonny readily agrees.\n\nSonny finds \"Kira\" and tells her the good news. She is not impressed with the deal that he has cut. It is then that the evil sisters work their curse, and the winged Eros, along with \"Mama Cupid\", shoots \"Kira\" and Sonny with the arrows of love (\"Strange Magic\"). \"Kira\" is soon overwhelmed with guilt over her loving feelings and of having created her own art (a hand-drawn picture) alongside Sonny – both violations of Zeus's restrictions on the Muses.\n\nWith the help of some of the muses, \"Kira\" and Sonny fix up the old theater (\"All Over the World\"), and Danny agrees to go ahead with the opening. Clio realizes that she is falling in love with Sonny and tells him that she must leave (\"Don't Walk Away\"). But the evil sisters are not finished. Now they offer Danny piles of money if he will tear down the theater and build condos. Danny can't resist and tells Sonny that the deal is off.\n\n\"Kira\" comes back to tell Sonny that she loves him, but the evil sisters tell her that she has broken Zeus's rules, and that she must tell Sonny the truth. So \"Kira\" reveals all to Sonny, including that her name is Clio, but he does not believe her and is upset. He suggests that she is a crackpot. He also doubts that she really loves him, and she is angry and hurt (\"Fool\"). The evil sisters have triumphed (\"The Fall\"), and Kira sets off for Mount Olympus to receive her punishment from Zeus (\"Suspended in Time\").\n\nMeanwhile, Sonny and Danny discuss \"Kira\" and after seeing her in the sky, it all makes sense. Danny tells Sonny not to let go of his muse because of foolish pride as he once did back in the 1940s. Sonny, realizing that he really loves \"Kira,\" decides to find her - even if it means climbing Mount Olympus.\n\nBack on Mount Olympus, Zeus's wives ask him to take pity on Clio (\"Have You Never Been Mellow\"). Thetis retells the story of Achilles and his vulnerable heel. All the demi-gods and demi-goddesses are so afflicted. This gives Clio an epiphany: She, too, is invulnerable, except for her heels, but when the evil sisters had her shot with the arrows of love, she had been wearing the \"mighty legwarmers,\" and so she must have been completely invulnerable. This means that she really did love Sonny! Kira then declares her love for Sonny and rips off her legwarmers (\"I'm Free\") and attempts to fly away with Pegasus and Sonny, before Zeus pulls them down with copper chains. \nSonny brashly declares that he would even fight Zeus for the woman he loves. Zeus, impressed with his pluck, decides to pardon Clio. The two evil sisters are displeased, the lovers are reunited, and Zeus reveals what Xanadu is: \"True love and the ability to create and share art.\" Clio and Sonny go back to L.A. and Xanadu (\"Xanadu\").\n\n\n† Does not appear on the cast recording\n\nThe following are the casts of the major productions:\n\n\"Xanadu's\" opening night reviews from the New York critics were mostly positive. The musical broke the Helen Hayes one-day box office record the day after the reviews came out.\n\nCharles Isherwood, in \"The New York Times,\" wrote that the show is \"simultaneously indefensible and irresistible... there’s so much silly bliss to be had... there is enough first-rate stage talent rolling around in \"Xanadu\" to power a season of wholly new, old-school, non-jukebox musicals, if someone would get around to writing a few good ones... the show’s winking attitude toward its own aesthetic abjectness can be summed up thus: If you can’t beat ’em, slap on some roller skates and join ’em.\" Although Isherwood praised most of the cast, he noted that the musical \"does have a few dead spots in its brisk 90-minute running time... Mr. Beane’s inspiration seems to have failed him when it came to minting fresh fun from the subplot involving flashbacks to Danny’s 1940s romance. The stage \"Xanadu\" can’t really muster much in the way of an extravaganza, either... The production is skimpy on both the casting and design fronts.\"\n\nHilton Als' review in \"The New Yorker\" called \"Xanadu\" \"probably the most fun you’ll have on Broadway this season, one reason being that everything about it is so resolutely anti-Broadway. In its wildness and ecstasy, \"Xanadu\" is a welcome relief from the synthetic creations that some Broadway producers have been peddling for years. Here you can’t count the disco balls fast enough—not to mention the roller skates, the frosted-pink lips, and the glittering spandex that the director, Christopher Ashley, hurls at you like a PCP flashback. \"Xanadu\" is far sleazier and cheesier than conventional musical theatre, and it points out just how tame most other musicals are.\"\n\nPS Classics recorded the original cast recording of the musical on October 29, 2007 and released it to stores on January 8, 2008.\n\nOn May 10, 2008, a video introducing \"Tony Campaign Manager Cubby Bernstein\" was released on YouTube. The video features past Tony Award winners like Duncan Sheik, Julie White, Beth Leavel, John Cullum, Martin Richards and Carole Shelley. Pre-pubescent \"Cubby\" claims to have been behind 63 Tony wins. Additional videos were released every few days. On the second episode, the producers of \"Xanadu\" ask Cubby if he would campaign for their show, but Cubby refuses, saying that it is a show for \"the gay boys\". However, the producers convince Cubby to go and see the show, which \"bowls him over\". He then says that \"Xanadu\" can win the Tony, creating the campaign's slogan \"Yes It Can!\"\n\nSubsequent episodes feature more Tony Award winners like Patti LuPone, Cynthia Nixon, Adriane Lenox, John Lloyd Young and John Gallagher Jr., and follow Cubby while he shows the cast of \"Xanadu\" the \"Cubby steps to the Tony\". Cubby makes them sell \"Cub-Cakes\" to benefit the charity Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS during the one-year anniversary of \"Xanadu\" on Broadway, teaches them \"the art of the shmooze\" and helps them build up their confidence. The sixth and most popular video is the only one in which Cubby doesn't appear. It features Tony winner Nathan Lane and most of the \"Xanadu\" male cast.\n\n\"Xanadu\" producers never acknowledged that Cubby Bernstein was a publicity stunt, although Douglas Carter Beane stated on May 15 that he believed this year <nowiki>\"[Cubby]</nowiki> is going to go with \"Xanadu\"\". Cubby Bernstein has been identified by Variety as child actor Adam Riegler, who appeared in the 2007 revival of \"I and Albert\" and as Pugsley Addams in \"The Addams Family\". Playwright Paul Downs Colaizzo helped to create and also appeared in the series. \"Xanadu\" did not win any Tony Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "4733755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4733755", "title": "Yoruba literature", "text": "Yoruba literature\n\nYoruba literature is the spoken and written literature of the Yoruba people, one of the largest ethno-linguistic groups in Nigeria and in the rest of Africa. The Yorùbá language is spoken in Nigeria, Benin, and Togo, as well as in dispersed Yoruba communities throughout the world.\n\nYoruba did not have a common written form before the nineteenth century. Many of the early contributions to Yoruba writing and formal study were made by English-educated Anglican priests.\nThe first Yoruba grammar was published in 1843 by Bishop Samuel Ajayi Crowther. He was of Yoruba origin himself.\nThe written form of the Yoruba language comes from a Conference on Orthography from the Church Missionary Society in Lagos, in 1875. \nThe first history of the Yoruba people was compiled by Reverend Samuel Johnson, who was also of Yoruba origin, in 1897. Thus, the formation of written Yoruba was facilitated by Yoruba people themselves despite the use of the Roman alphabet.\n\nYoruba religion is intertwined with history, with the various Yoruba clans claiming to descend from divinities, and some of their kings becoming deified after their deaths. \"Itan\" is the word for the sum of Yoruba religion, poetry, song, and history. Yoruba divinities are called Orishas, and make up one of the most complex pantheons in oral history.\n\nIfá, a complex system of divination, involves recital of Yoruba poetry containing stories and proverbs bearing on the divination. A divination recital can take a whole night. The body of this poetry is vast, and passed on between Ifa oracles.\n\nThe first novel in the Yorùbá language was \"Ogboju Ode ninu Igbo Irunmale\" (translated by Wole Soyinka as \"The Forest of A Thousand Daemons\"), although the literal translation is \"The bravery of a hunter in the forest of deities\", written in 1938 by Chief Daniel O. Fagunwa (1903–1963). It contains the picaresque tales of a Yoruba hunter encountering folklore elements, such as magic, monsters, spirits, and gods. It was one of the first novels to be written in any African language. Fagunwa wrote other works based on similar themes, and remains the most widely read Yorùbá-language author.\n\nAmos Tutuola (1920–1997) was greatly inspired by Fagunwa, but wrote in an intentionally rambling, broken English, reflecting the oral tradition of Nigerian Pidgin English. Tutuola gained fame for \"The Palm-Wine Drinkard\" (1946, pub 1952), and other works based on Yoruba folklore.\n\nSenator Afolabi Olabimtan (1932–1992) was a writer, university professor, and politician. He wrote Yoruba language novels about modern Nigerian life and love, such as \"Kekere Ekun\" (1967; \"[Lad Nicknamed] Leopard Cub\"), and Ayanmo (1973; \"Predestination\").\n\nIn his pioneering study of Yoruba theatre, Joel Adedeji traced its origins to the masquerade of the Egungun (the \"cult of the ancestor\"). The traditional rite is controlled exclusively by men and culminates in a masquerade in which ancestors return to the world of the living to visit their descendants. In addition to its origin in ritual, Yoruba theatre can be \"traced to the 'theatrogenic' nature of a number of the deities in the Yoruba pantheon, such as Obatala the orisha of creation, Ogun the orisha of creativeness and Sango the orisha of lightning\", whose worship is imbricated \"with drama and theatre and their symbolic and psychological uses.\" \n\nThe Aláàrìnjó theatrical tradition sprang from the Egungun masquerade. The Aláàrìnjó were a troupe of traveling performers who were masked (as were the participants in the Egungun rite). They created short, satirical scenes that drew on a number of established stereotypical characters. Their performances used mime, music and acrobatics. The Aláàrìnjó tradition influenced the Yoruba traveling theatre, which was the most prevalent and highly developed form of theatre in Nigeria from the 1950s to the 1980s. In the 1990s, the Yoruba traveling theatre moved into television and film and now gives live performances only rarely. \n\n\"Total theatre\" also developed in Nigeria in the 1950s. It used non-Naturalistic techniques, surrealistic physical imagery, and exercised a flexibile use of language. Playwrights writing in the mid-1970s made use of some of these techniques, but articulated them with \"a radical appreciation of the problems of society.\" \n\nTraditional performance modes have strongly influenced the major figures in contemporary Nigerian theatre. The work of Chief Hubert Ogunde (sometimes referred to as the \"father of contemporary Yoruban theatre\") was informed by the Aláàrìnjó tradition and Egungun masquerades. He founded the first professional Nigerian theatre company in 1945 and served in many roles, including playwright, in both English and Yoruba.\n\nWole Soyinka is \"generally recognized as Africa’s greatest living playwright\" and was awarded the 1986 Nobel Prize in Literature. He writes in English, sometimes a Nigerian pidgin English, and his subjects (in both plays and novels) include a mixture of Western, traditional, and modern African elements. He gives the god Ogun a complex metaphysical significance in his work. In his essay \"The Fourth Stage\" (1973), Soyinka argues that \"no matter how strongly African authors call for an indigenous tragic art form, they smuggle into their dramas, through the back door of formalistic and ideological predilections, typically conventional Western notions and practices of rendering historical events into tragedy.\" He contrasts Yoruban drama with classical Athenian drama, relating both to the 19th-century German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche's analysis of the latter in \"The Birth of Tragedy\" (1879). Ogun, he argues, is \"a totality of the Dionysian, Apollonian and Promethean virtues.\" He develops an aesthetic of Yoruban tragedy based, in part, on the Yoruban religious pantheon (including Ogun and Obatala).\n\nAkinwunmi Isola is a popular novelist (beginning with \"O Le Ku\", \"Heart-Rending Incidents\", in 1974), playwright, screenwriter, film producer, and professor of Yoruba language. His works include historical dramas and analyses of modern Yoruba novels.\n\n\n"}
