{"id": "38894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38894", "title": "Abolitionism", "text": "Abolitionism\n\nAbolitionism (or the abolitionist movement) is the movement to end slavery. This term can be used formally or informally. In Western Europe and the Americas, abolitionism is a historical movement in effort to end the African and Indian slave trade and set slaves free. King Charles I of Spain, usually known as Emperor Charles V, was following the example of Louis X of France who abolished slavery within the Kingdom of France in 1315. He passed a law which would have abolished colonial slavery in 1542, although this law was not passed in the largest colonial states, and was not enforced. In the late 17th century, the Roman Catholic Church, taking up a plea by Lourenço da Silva de Mendouça, officially condemned the slave trade, which was affirmed vehemently by Pope Gregory XVI in 1839. The abolitionist movement only started in the late 18th century, however, when English and American Quakers began to question the morality of slavery. James Oglethorpe was among the first to articulate the Enlightenment case against slavery, banning it in the Province of Georgia on humanitarian grounds, and arguing against it in Parliament, and eventually encouraging his friends Granville Sharp and Hannah More to vigorously pursue the cause. Soon after his death in 1785, Sharp and More united with William Wilberforce and others in forming the Clapham Sect.\n\nThe Somersett Case in 1772, in which a fugitive slave was freed in England with the judgement that slavery did not exist under English common law and was thus prohibited in England, helped launch the British movement to abolish slavery. Though anti-slavery sentiments were widespread by the late 18th century, the colonies and emerging nations that used slave labour continued to do so: Dutch, French, English, Spanish and Portuguese territories in the West Indies; South America; and the Southern United States. After the American Revolution established the United States, northern states, beginning with Pennsylvania in 1780, passed legislation during the next two decades abolishing slavery, sometimes by gradual emancipation. Massachusetts ratified a constitution that declared all men equal; freedom suits challenging slavery based on this principle brought an end to slavery in the state. Vermont, which existed as an unrecognized state from 1777 to 1791, abolished adult slavery in 1777. In other states, such as Virginia, similar declarations of rights were interpreted by the courts as not applicable to Africans and African Americans. During the following decades, the abolitionist movement grew in northern states, and Congress regulated the expansion of slavery in new states admitted to the union.\n\nFrance abolished slavery within the French Kingdom (continental France) in 1315. In May 1787 the Society for Effecting the Abolition of the Slave Trade was formed in London to end the British slave trade. Revolutionary France abolished slavery in France's colonies in 1794, although it was restored by Napoleon with the Law of 20 May 1802 as part of a program to ensure French sovereignty over its colonies. Haiti formally declared independence from France in 1804 and brought an end to slavery in its territory. The northern states in the U.S. all abolished slavery by 1804. Great Britain and Ireland and the United States outlawed the international slave trade in 1807, after which Britain led efforts to block slave ships. Britain abolished slavery throughout the British Empire with the Slavery Abolition Act 1833, the French colonies re-abolished it in 1848 and the U.S. abolished slavery in 1865 with the 13th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.\n\nIn Eastern Europe, groups organized to abolish the enslavement of the Roma in Wallachia and Moldavia; and to emancipate the serfs in Russia (Emancipation reform of 1861). It was declared illegal in 1948 under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The last country to abolish legal slavery was Mauritania, where it was officially abolished by a presidential decree in 1981. Today, child and adult slavery and forced labour are illegal in most countries, as well as being against international law, but a high rate of human trafficking for labour and for sexual bondage continues to affect tens of millions of adults and children.\n\nIn 1315, Louis X, king of France, published a decree proclaiming that \"France signifies freedom\" and that any slave setting foot on the French ground should be freed. This prompted subsequent governments to circumscribe slavery in the overseas colonies.\n\nSome cases of African slaves freed by setting foot on the French soil were recorded such as this example of a Norman slave merchant who tried to sell slaves in Bordeaux in 1571. He was arrested and his slaves were freed according to a declaration of the Parlement of Guyenne which stated that slavery was intolerable in France. Born into slavery in Saint Domingue, Thomas-Alexandre Dumas became free when his father brought him to France in 1776.\n\nAs in other New World colonies, the French relied on the Atlantic slave trade for labour for their sugar cane plantations in their Caribbean colonies; the French West Indies. In addition, French colonists in \"Louisiane\" in North America held slaves, particularly in the South around New Orleans, where they established sugarcane plantations.\n\nLouis XIV's \"Code Noir\" regulated the slave trade and institution in the colonies. It gave unparalleled rights to slaves. It included the right to marry, gather publicly, or take Sundays off. Although the \"Code Noir\" authorized and codified cruel corporal punishment against slaves under certain conditions, it forbade slave owners to torture them or to separate families. It also demanded enslaved Africans receive instruction in the Catholic faith, implying that Africans were human beings endowed with a soul, a fact French law did not admit until then. It resulted in a far higher percentage of blacks being free in 1830 (13.2% in Louisiana compared to 0.8% in Mississippi). They were on average exceptionally literate, with a significant number of them owning businesses, properties, and even slaves. Other free people of colour, such as Julien Raimond, spoke out against slavery.\n\nThe \"Code Noir\" also forbade interracial marriages, but it was often ignored in French colonial society and the mulattoes became an intermediate caste between whites and blacks, while in the British colonies mulattoes and blacks were considered equal and discriminated against equally.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, many philosophers wrote pamphlets against slavery and its moral and economical justifications, including Montesquieu in \"The Spirit of the Laws\" (1748) and Denis Diderot in the \"Encyclopédie\". In 1788, Jacques Pierre Brissot founded the Society of the Friends of the Blacks (\"Société des Amis des Noirs\") to work for the abolition of slavery. After the Revolution, on 4 April 1792, France granted free people of colour full citizenship.\n\nThe slave revolt, in the largest Caribbean French colony of Saint-Domingue in 1791, was the beginning of what became the Haitian Revolution led by formerly enslaved people like Georges Biassou, Toussaint Louverture, and Jean-Jacques Dessalines. The rebellion swept through the north of the colony, and with it came freedom to thousands of enslaved blacks, but also violence and death. In 1793, French Civil Commissioners in St. Domingue and abolitionists, Léger-Félicité Sonthonax and Étienne Polverel, issued the first emancipation proclamation of the modern world (Decree of 16 Pluviôse An II). The Convention sent them to safeguard the allegiance of the population to revolutionary France. The proclamation resulted in crucial military strategy as it gradually brought most of the black troops into the French fold and kept the colony under the French flag for most of the conflict. The connection with France lasted until blacks and free people of colour formed L'armée indigène in 1802 to resist Napoleon's Expédition de Saint-Domingue. Victory over the French in the decisive battle of Battle of Vertières finally led to independence and the creation of present Haiti in 1804.\n\nThe Convention, the first elected Assembly of the First Republic (1792–1804), on 4 February 1794, under the leadership of Maximilien Robespierre, abolished slavery in law in France and its colonies. Abbé Grégoire and the Society of the Friends of the Blacks were part of the abolitionist movement, which had laid important groundwork in building anti-slavery sentiment in the metropole. The first article of the law stated that \"Slavery was abolished\" in the French colonies, while the second article stated that \"slave-owners would be indemnified\" with financial compensation for the value of their slaves. The French constitution passed in 1795 included in the declaration of the Rights of Man that slavery was abolished.\n\nDuring the French Revolutionary Wars, French slave-owners massively joined the counter-revolution and, through the Whitehall Accord, they threatened to move the French Caribbean colonies under British control, as Great Britain still allowed slavery. Fearing secession from these islands, successfully lobbied by planters and concerned about revenues from the West Indies, and influenced by the slaveholder family of his wife, Napoleon Bonaparte decided to re-establish slavery after becoming First Consul. He promulgated the law of 20 May 1802 and sent military governors and troops to the colonies to impose it. On 10 May 1802, Colonel Delgrès launched a rebellion in Guadeloupe against Napoleon's representative, General Richepanse. The rebellion was repressed, and slavery was re-established. The news of this event sparked another wave of rebellion in Saint-Domingue. Although from 1802, Napoleon sent more than 20,000 troops to the island, two-thirds died mostly due to yellow fever. He withdrew the remaining 7,000 troops and slaves achieved an independent republic they called Haïti in 1804. Seeing the failure of the Saint-Domingue expedition, in 1803 Napoleon decided to sell the Louisiana Territory to the United States. The French governments initially refused to recognize Haiti. It forced the nation to pay a substantial amount of reparations (which it could ill afford) for losses during the revolution and did not recognize its government until 1825.\n\nOn 27 April 1848, under the Second Republic (1848–52), the decree-law of Schœlcher abolished slavery in the remaining colonies. The state bought the slaves from the \"colons\" (white colonists; \"\" in Creole), and then freed them.\n\nAt about the same time, France started colonizing Africa and gained possession of much of West Africa by 1900. In 1905, the French abolished slavery in most of French West Africa. The French also attempted to abolish Tuareg slavery following the Kaocen Revolt. In the region of the Sahel, slavery has however long persisted.\n\nPassed on 10 May 2001, the Taubira law officially acknowledges slavery and the Atlantic Slave Trade as a crime against humanity. 10 May was chosen as the day dedicated to recognition of the crime of slavery.\n\nThe last known form of enforced servitude of adults (villeinage) had disappeared in England by the beginning of the 17th century. In 1569 a court considered the case of Cartwright, who had bought a slave from Russia. The court ruled English law could not recognize slavery, as it was never established officially. This ruling was overshadowed by later developments; It was upheld in 1700 by the Lord Chief Justice John Holt when he ruled that a slave became free as soon as he arrived in England. During the English Civil Wars of the mid-seventeenth century, sectarian radicals challenged slavery and other threats to personal freedom. Their ideas influenced many antislavery thinkers in the eighteenth century.\n\nIn addition to English colonists importing slaves to the North American colonies, by the 18th century, traders began to import slaves from Africa, India and East Asia (where they were trading) to London and Edinburgh to work as personal servants. Men who migrated to the North American colonies often took their East Indian slaves or servants with them, as East Indians have been documented in colonial records.\n\nSome of the first freedom suits, court cases in the British Isles to challenge the legality of slavery, took place in Scotland in 1755 and 1769. The cases were \"Montgomery v. Sheddan\" (1755) and \"Spens v. Dalrymple\" (1769). Each of the slaves had been baptized in Scotland and challenged the legality of slavery. They set the precedent of legal procedure in British courts that would later lead to successful outcomes for the plaintiffs. In these cases, deaths of the plaintiff and defendant, respectively, brought an end before court decisions.\n\nAfrican slaves were not bought or sold in London but were brought by masters from other areas. Together with people from other nations, especially non-Christian, Africans were considered foreigners, not able to be English subjects. At the time, England had no naturalization procedure. The African slaves' legal status was unclear until 1772 and Somersett's Case, when the fugitive slave James Somersett forced a decision by the courts. Somersett had escaped, and his master, Charles Steuart, had him captured and imprisoned on board a ship, intending to ship him to Jamaica to be resold into slavery. While in London, Somersett had been baptized; three godparents issued a writ of \"habeas corpus\". As a result, Lord Mansfield, Chief Justice of the Court of the King's Bench, had to judge whether Somersett's abduction was lawful or not under English Common Law. No legislation had ever been passed to establish slavery in England. The case received national attention, and five advocates supported the action on behalf of Somersett.\n\nIn his judgement of 22 June 1772, Mansfield declared:\nThe state of slavery is of such a nature that it is incapable of being introduced on any reasons, moral or political, but only by positive law, which preserves its force long after the reasons, occasions, and time itself from whence it was created, is erased from memory. It is so odious, that nothing can be suffered to support it, but positive law. Whatever inconveniences, therefore, may follow from a decision, I cannot say this case is allowed or approved by the law of England; and therefore the black must be discharged.\n\nAlthough the exact legal implications of the judgement are unclear when analysed by lawyers, the judgement was generally taken at the time to have determined that slavery did not exist under English common law and was thus prohibited in England. The decision did not apply to the British overseas territories; by then, for example, the American colonies had established slavery by positive laws. Somersett's case became a significant part of the common law of slavery in the English-speaking world and it helped launch the movement to abolish slavery.\n\nAfter reading about Somersett's Case, Joseph Knight, an enslaved African who had been purchased by his master John Wedderburn in Jamaica and brought to Scotland, left him. Married and with a child, he filed a freedom suit, on the grounds that he could not be held as a slave in Great Britain. In the case of \"Knight v. Wedderburn\" (1778), Wedderburn said that Knight owed him \"perpetual servitude\". The Court of Session of Scotland ruled against him, saying that chattel slavery was not recognized under the law of Scotland, and slaves could seek court protection to leave a master or avoid being forcibly removed from Scotland to be returned to slavery in the colonies.\n\nBut at the same time, legally mandated, hereditary slavery of Scots persons in Scotland had existed from 1606 and continued until 1799, when colliers and salters were emancipated by an act of the Parliament of Great Britain (39 Geo.III. c. 56). Skilled workers, they were restricted to a place and could be sold with the works. A prior law enacted in 1775 (15 Geo.III. c. 28) was intended to end what the act referred to as \"a state of slavery and bondage,\" but that was ineffective, necessitating the 1799 act.\n\nIn 1783, an anti-slavery movement began among the British public to end slavery throughout the British Empire. In 1785, the English poet William Cowper wrote:\n\n<poem>\nWe have no slaves at home.—Then why abroad?\nAnd they themselves once ferried o'er the wave\nThat parts us, are emancipate and loos'd.\nSlaves cannot breathe in England; if their lungs\nReceive our air, that moment they are free,\nThey touch our country and their shackles fall.\nThat's noble, and bespeaks a nation proud\nAnd jealous of the blessing. Spread it then,\nAnd let it circulate through ev'ry vein\nOf all your empire. That where Britain's power\nIs felt, mankind may feel her mercy too.\n(from \"The Task\", Book 2)</poem>\nAfter the formation of the Committee for the Abolition of the Slave Trade in 1787, William Wilberforce led the cause of abolition through the parliamentary campaign. Thomas Clarkson became the group's most prominent researcher, gathering vast amounts of data on the trade. One aspect of abolitionism during this period was the effective use of images such as the famous Josiah Wedgwood \"Am I Not A Man And A Brother?\" anti-slavery medallion of 1787. Clarkson described the medallion as \"promoting the cause of justice, humanity and freedom\". The Slave Trade Act was passed by the British Parliament on 25 March 1807, making the slave trade illegal throughout the British Empire. Britain used its influence to coerce other countries to agree to treaties to end their slave trade and allow the Royal Navy to seize their slave ships. Britain enforced the abolition of the trade because the act made trading slaves within British territories illegal. However, the act repealed the effort to improve conditions for slaves: amelioration. The end of the slave trade did not end slavery as a whole. Slavery was still a common practice.\n\nIn the 1820s, the abolitionist movement revived to campaign against the institution of slavery itself. In 1823 the first Anti-Slavery Society was founded. Many of its members had previously campaigned against the slave trade. On August 28, 1833, the Slavery Abolition Act was given Royal Assent, which paved the way for the abolition of slavery throughout the British Empire, which was substantially achieved in 1838. In 1839, the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society was formed by Joseph Sturge, which attempted to outlaw slavery worldwide and also to pressure the government to help enforce the suppression of the slave trade by declaring slave traders pirates. The world's oldest international human rights organization, it continues today as Anti-Slavery International. Thomas Clarkson was the key speaker at the first conference in London in 1840. In 1846 Clarkson was host to Frederick Douglass, a prominent African-American abolitionist, on his first visit to England. At risk after passage in the US of the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850, Douglass became legally free in England when British friends raised the money and negotiated purchase of his freedom from his American former slave master.\n\nIn the principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia, the government held slavery of the Roma (often referred to as Gypsies) as legal at the beginning of the 19th century. The progressive pro-European and anti-Ottoman movement, which gradually gained power in the two principalities, also worked to abolish that slavery. Between 1843 and 1855, the principalities emancipated all of the 250,000 enslaved Roma people.\n\nBartolomé de las Casas was a 16th-century Spanish Dominican priest, the first resident Bishop of Chiapas. As a settler in the New World he witnessed and opposed the poor treatment of the Native Americans by the Spanish colonists. He advocated before King Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor on behalf of rights for the natives. Originally supporting the importation of African slaves as labourers, he eventually changed and became an advocate for the Africans in the colonies.\nHis book, \"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\", contributed to Spanish passage of colonial legislation known as the New Laws of 1542, which abolished native slavery for the first time in European colonial history. It ultimately led to the Valladolid debate.\n\nDuring the early 19th century, slavery expanded rapidly in Brazil, Cuba, and the United States, while at the same time the new republics of mainland Spanish America became committed to the gradual abolition of slavery. During the Spanish American wars for independence (1810–1826), slavery was abolished in most of Latin America, though it continued until 1873 in Puerto Rico, 1886 in Cuba, and 1888 in Brazil (where it was abolished by the \"Lei Áurea\", the \"Golden Law\"). Chile declared freedom of wombs in 1811, followed by the United Provinces of the River Plate in 1813, but without abolishing slavery completely. While Chile abolished slavery in 1823, Argentina did so with the signing of the Argentine Constitution of 1853. Colombia abolished slavery in 1852. Slavery was abolished in Uruguay during the \"Guerra Grande\", by both the government of Fructuoso Rivera and the government in exile of Manuel Oribe.\n\nWhile many blacks who arrived in Nova Scotia during the American Revolution were free, others were not. Black slaves also arrived in Nova Scotia as the property of White American Loyalists. In 1772, prior to the American Revolution, Britain outlawed the slave trade in the British Isles followed by the Knight v. Wedderburn decision in Scotland in 1778. This decision, in turn, influenced the colony of Nova Scotia. In 1788, abolitionist James Drummond MacGregor from Pictou published the first anti-slavery literature in Canada and began purchasing slaves' freedom and chastising his colleagues in the Presbyterian church who owned slaves. In 1790 John Burbidge freed his slaves. Led by Richard John Uniacke, in 1787, 1789 and again on 11 January 1808, the Nova Scotian legislature refused to legalize slavery. Two chief justices, Thomas Andrew Lumisden Strange (1790–1796) and Sampson Salter Blowers (1797–1832) were instrumental in freeing slaves from their owners in Nova Scotia. They were held in high regard in the colony. By the end of the War of 1812 and the arrival of the Black Refugees, there were few slaves left in Nova Scotia. (The Slave Trade Act outlawed the slave trade in the British Empire in 1807 and the Slavery Abolition Act of 1833 outlawed slavery all together.)\n\nWith slaves escaping to New York and New England, legislation for gradual emancipation was passed in Upper Canada (1793) and Lower Canada (1803). In Upper Canada the Assembly ruled that no slaves could be imported; slaves already in the province would remain enslaved until death, no new slaves could be brought into Upper Canada, and children born to female slaves would be slaves but must be freed at the age of 25. In practice, some slavery continued until abolished in the entire British Empire in the 1830s.\n\nThe historian James M. McPherson defines an abolitionist \"as one who before the Civil War had agitated for the immediate, unconditional, and total abolition of slavery in the United States.\" He does not include antislavery activists such as Abraham Lincoln or the Republican Party, which called for the gradual ending of slavery.\n\nThe first attempts to end slavery in the British/American colonies came from Thomas Jefferson and some of his contemporaries. Despite the fact that Jefferson was a lifelong slaveholder, he included strong anti-slavery language in the original draft of the Declaration of Independence, but other delegates took it out. Benjamin Franklin, also a slaveholder for much of his life, became a leading member of the Pennsylvania Society for the Abolition of Slavery, the first recognized organization for abolitionists in the United States. Following the American Revolutionary War, Northern states abolished slavery, beginning with the 1777 constitution of Vermont, followed by Pennsylvania's gradual emancipation act in 1780. Other states with more of an economic interest in slaves, such as New York and New Jersey, also passed gradual emancipation laws, and by 1804, all the northern states had abolished it. Some slaves continued to live in servitude for two more decades but most were freed.\n\nAlso in the postwar years, individual slaveholders, particularly in the Upper South, manumitted slaves, sometimes in their wills. Many noted that they had been moved by the revolutionary ideals of the equality of men. The number of free blacks as a proportion of the black population increased from less than one percent to nearly ten percent from 1790 to 1810 in the Upper South as a result of these actions.\n\nAs President, on 2 March 1807, Jefferson signed the Act Prohibiting Importation of Slaves and it took effect in 1808, which was the earliest allowed under the Constitution. In 1820 he privately supported the Missouri Compromise, believing it would help to end slavery. He left the anti-slavery struggle to younger men after that.\nIn the 1850s in the fifteen states constituting the American South, slavery was legally established. While it was fading away in the cities as well as in the border states, it remained strong in plantation areas that grew cotton for export, or sugar, tobacco or hemp. According to the 1860 United States Census, the slave population in the United States had grown to four million. American abolitionism was based in the North, and white Southerners alleged it fostered slave rebellion.\n\nAbolitionism in the United States became a popular expression of moralism, operating in tandem with other social reform efforts, such as the temperance movement.\n\nThe white abolitionist movement in the North was led by social reformers, especially William Lloyd Garrison, founder of the American Anti-Slavery Society; writers such as John Greenleaf Whittier and Harriet Beecher Stowe. Black activists included former slaves such as Frederick Douglass; and free blacks such as the brothers Charles Henry Langston and John Mercer Langston, who helped found the Ohio Anti-Slavery Society. Some abolitionists said that slavery was criminal and a sin; they also criticized slave owners of using black women as concubines and taking sexual advantage of them.\n\nThe Republican Party wanted to achieve the gradual extinction of slavery by market forces, because its members believed that free labor was superior to slave labor. Southern leaders said that the Republican policy of blocking the expansion of slavery into the West made them second-class citizens, and they also said it challenged their autonomy. With the 1860 presidential victory of Abraham Lincoln, seven Deep South states whose economy was based on cotton and slavery decided to secede and form a new nation. The American Civil War broke out in April 1861 with the firing on Fort Sumter in South Carolina. When Lincoln called for troops to suppress the rebellion, four more slave states seceded.\n\nLincoln's Emancipation Proclamation was an executive order of the U.S. government issued on 1 January 1863, changing the legal status of 3 million slaves in designated areas of the Confederacy from \"slave\" to \"free\". Slaves were legally freed by the Proclamation and became actually free by escaping to federal lines, or by advances of federal troops. Many served the federal army as teamsters, cooks, laundresses, and laborers. Plantation owners, realizing the emancipation would destroy their economic system, sometimes moved their slaves as far as possible out of reach of the Union army. By \"Juneteenth\" (19 June 1865, in Texas), the Union Army controlled all of the Confederacy and liberated all its slaves. The owners were never compensated.\n\nThe border states were exempt from the Emancipation Proclamation, but they too (except Delaware) began their own emancipation programmes. When the Union Army entered Confederate areas, thousands of slaves escaped to freedom behind Union Army lines, and in 1863 many men started serving as the United States Colored Troops. The 13th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution took effect in December 1865 and finally ended slavery throughout the United States. It also abolished slavery among the Indian tribes, including the Alaska tribes that became part of the U.S. in 1867.\n\nWhite and Black opponents of slavery, who played a considerable role in the movement. This list includes some escaped slaves, who were traditionally called abolitionists. \n\n\n\nThe abolitionist movements and the abolition of slavery have been commemorated in different ways around the world in modern times. The United Nations General Assembly declared 2004 the International Year to Commemorate the Struggle against Slavery and its Abolition. This proclamation marked the bicentenary of the birth of the first black state, Haiti. Numerous exhibitions, events and research programmes were connected to the initiative.\n\n2007 witnessed major exhibitions in British museums and galleries to mark the anniversary of the 1807 abolition act – 1807 Commemorated 2008 marks the 201st anniversary of the Abolition of the Slave Trade in the British Empire. It also marks the 175th anniversary of the abolition of Slavery in the British Empire.\n\nThe Faculty of Law at the University of Ottawa held a major international conference entitled, \"Routes to Freedom: Reflections on the Bicentenary of the Abolition of the Slave Trade\", from 14 to 16 March 2008. Actor and human rights activist Danny Glover delivered the keynote speech announcing the creation of two major scholarships intended for University of Ottawa law students specializing in international law and social justice at the conference's gala dinner.\n\nBrooklyn, New York, has begun work on commemorating the abolitionist movement in New York.\n\nOn 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 4 states:\n\nNo one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms.\n\nAlthough outlawed in most countries, slavery is nonetheless practised secretly in many parts of the world. Enslavement still takes place in the United States, Europe, and Latin America, as well as parts of Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia. There are an estimated 27 million victims of slavery worldwide. In Mauritania alone, estimates are that up to 600,000 men, women and children, or 20% of the population, are enslaved. Many of them are used as bonded labour.\n\nModern-day abolitionists have emerged over the last several years, as awareness of slavery around the world has grown, with groups such as Anti-Slavery International, the American Anti-Slavery Group, International Justice Mission, and Free the Slaves working to rid the world of slavery.\n\nIn the United States, The Action Group to End Human Trafficking and Modern-Day Slavery is a coalition of NGOs, foundations and corporations working to develop a policy agenda for abolishing slavery and human trafficking. Since 1997, the United States Department of Justice has, through work with the Coalition of Immokalee Workers, prosecuted six individuals in Florida on charges of slavery in the agricultural industry. These prosecutions have led to freedom for over 1000 enslaved workers in the tomato and orange fields of South Florida. This is only one example of the contemporary fight against slavery worldwide. Slavery exists most widely in agricultural labour, apparel and sex industries, and service jobs in some regions.\n\nIn 2000, the United States passed the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act (TVPA) \"to combat trafficking in persons, especially into the sex trade, slavery, and involuntary servitude.\" The TVPA also \"created new law enforcement tools to strengthen the prosecution and punishment of traffickers, making human trafficking a Federal crime with severe penalties.\"\n\nIn 2014, for the first time in history major Anglican, Catholic, and Orthodox Christian leaders, as well as Jewish, Muslim, Hindu, and Buddhist leaders, met to sign a shared commitment against modern-day slavery; the declaration they signed calls for the elimination of slavery and human trafficking by the year 2020. The signatories were: Pope Francis, Her Holiness Mātā Amṛtānandamayī (also known as Amma), Venerable Bhikkhuni Thich Nu Chân Không (representing Zen Master Thích Nhất Hạnh), The Most Ven. Datuk K Sri Dhammaratana, Chief High Priest of Malaysia, Rabbi Dr. Abraham Skorka, Rabbi Dr. David Rosen, Dr. Abbas Abdalla Abbas Soliman, Undersecretary of State of Al Azhar Alsharif (representing Mohamed Ahmed El-Tayeb, Grand Imam of Al-Azhar), Grand Ayatollah Mohammad Taqi al-Modarresi, Sheikh Naziyah Razzaq Jaafar, Special advisor of Grand Ayatollah (representing Grand Ayatollah Sheikh Basheer Hussain al Najafi), Sheikh Omar Abboud, Most Revd and Right Hon Justin Welby, Archbishop of Canterbury, and His Eminence Metropolitan Emmanuel of France (representing His All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew.)\n\nThe United States Department of State publishes the annual Trafficking in Persons Report, identifying countries as either Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 2 Watch List or Tier 3, depending upon three factors: \"(1) The extent to which the country is a country of origin, transit, or destination for severe forms of trafficking; (2) The extent to which the government of the country does not comply with the TVPA's minimum standards including, in particular, the extent of the government's trafficking-related corruption; and (3) The resources and capabilities of the government to address and eliminate severe forms of trafficking in persons.\"\n\nThough their claim has been disputed, members of the Abolish Human Abortion campaign consider themselves to be within the abolitionist tradition, as they compare abortion with slavery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12150109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12150109", "title": "Adaptations of A Christmas Carol", "text": "Adaptations of A Christmas Carol\n\n\"A Christmas Carol\", the popular 1843 novella by Charles Dickens (1812–1870), is one of the British author's best-known works. It is the story of Ebenezer Scrooge, a greedy miser who hates Christmas, but is transformed into a caring, kindly person through the visitations of four ghosts. The classic work has been dramatised and adapted countless times for virtually every medium and performance genre, and new versions appear regularly.\n\nThe novel was the subject of Dickens' first public reading, given in Birmingham Town Hall to the Industrial and Literary Institute on 27 December 1852. This was repeated three days later to an audience of 'working people', and was a great success by his own account and that of newspapers of the time. Over the years, Dickens edited and adapted the piece for a listening, rather than reading, audience. Excerpts from \"A Christmas Carol\" remained part of Dickens' public readings until his death.\n\nSeveral performers tour shows in which they perform the public readings in character as Dickens.\n\n\n\nBetween 1944 and 1956, most television versions of the story were staged live.\n\nNone of the later versions were done live, but were either shot on videotape or filmed. They include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe basic plot of \"A Christmas Carol\" has been put to a variety of different literary and dramatic uses since Dickens' death, alongside sequels, prequels, and stories focusing on minor characters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18328314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18328314", "title": "Anne Johnson", "text": "Anne Johnson\n\nAnne Johnson, a British archaeologist and historical researcher, is a specialist in the archaeology of Roman forts of the early empire in Britain and the German Provinces. She studied archaeology at University College, Cardiff. Her PhD dissertation has been published in Britain (1983) and Germany (1987). Since 1989 she has worked as an archaeological and historical consultant in Oxford. Other publications include work on Roman military granaries.\n"}
{"id": "33736601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33736601", "title": "Archean life in the Barberton Greenstone Belt", "text": "Archean life in the Barberton Greenstone Belt\n\nThe Barberton Greenstone Belt of eastern South Africa contains some of the most widely accepted fossil evidence for Archean life. These cell-sized prokaryote fossils are seen in the Barberton fossil record in rocks as old as 3.5 billion years. The Barberton Greenstone Belt is an excellent place to study the Archean Earth due to exposed sedimentary and metasedimentary rocks.\n\nStudying the earliest forms of life on Earth can provide valuable information to help understand how life can evolve on other planets. It has long been hypothesized that life may have existed on Mars due to the similarity of environmental and tectonic conditions during the Archean time. By knowing the environments in which early life evolved on Earth, and the rock types that preserve them, scientists can have a better understanding of where to look for life on Mars. \nFossil life of 3.5 billion years of age is also found in the Pilbara craton of western Australia. This evidence, along with Barberton fossils, show that cellular life must have existed by this point in the evolution of Earth. There is work that potentially demonstrates life at 3.8 billion years ago, in what is now western Greenland, but it is highly debated. It is important to note that cellular life existed 3.5 billion years ago and thus it evolved prior to this time. Because the Earth is 4.5 billion years old, there is a window of about one billion years for cellular life to evolve from a lifeless earth.\n\nThe Barberton Greenstone Belt is located on the Kaapvaal craton, which covers much of the southeastern part of Africa, and was formed by the emplacement of granitoid batholiths. The Kaapvaal craton was once part of a supercontinent geologists term Vaalbara that also included the Pilbara craton of western Australia. Though the exact timing is still debated, it is likely that Vaalbara existed from approximately 3.6 to 2.2 billion years ago, and then split into two different continents.\n\nPreserved life in Archean rocks has been altered over its 3.5 billion year history and, thus, can be difficult to distinguish. The cell wall structure can be preserved, but the original composition changes over time and becomes mineralised. There are six established criteria to determine the plausibility of a given microstructure being a microfossil:\n\n\nCells are preserved in the rock record because their cell walls are made of proteins which convert to the organic material kerogen as the cell breaks down after death. Kerogen is insoluble in mineral acids, bases, and organic solvents. Over time, it is mineralised into graphite or graphite-like carbon, or degrades into oil and gas hydrocarbons. \nThere are three main types of cell morphologies. Though there is no established range of sizes for each type, spheroid microfossils can be as small as about 8 μm, filamentous microfossils have diameters typically less than 5 μm and have a length that can range from tens of μm to 100 μm, and spindle-like microfossils can be as long as 50 μm.\n\nStable isotope fractionation is a useful way of characterising organic carbon and inorganic carbon. These numbers are reported as values, where C is for the chemical element carbon. Isotope analysis of inorganic carbon typically yields δC values heavier than −10 per mil, with numbers usually falling between −5 and 5 per mil. Organic carbon, however, has δC values that range from −20 per mil for photoautotrophic bacteria to −60 per mil for microbial communities that recycle methane. The large range in values for organic carbon has to do with the cellular metabolism. For instance, an organism that uses photosynthesis (a phototroph) will have a different isotope δC value than an organism that relies on chemical substances for energy (an autotroph).\n\nThe oldest microfossils from the Barberton Greenstone belt are found in the Onverwacht Group, specifically, in both the Kromberg and Hooggenoeg Formations. Both of these formations are predominantly igneous rock; the sedimentary rock has been metamorphosed. However, it is still possible to find microfossils in chert, a type of evaporite that forms in sedimentary environments. From the evidence in these rocks, it is likely that early life existed in the form of microbial mats and stromatolites. Evidence for this hypothesis is preserved in both chert and lithified stromatolites.\n\nStromatolites represent large colonies of microorganisms, and are found both in the fossil record and rarely in modern hypersaline environments. A typical stromatolite consists of alternating layers of sediment and microbes. The microbes are photosynthetic; thus stromatolites represent shallow water environments in the fossil record due to their necessity to exist in the photic zone of water bodies. Stromatolites typically consist of filamentous microfossils. The oldest stromatolites have been dated to approximately 3.5 billion years old. Stromatolites in Barberton have been dated to about 3.3 billion years.\n\nMicrofossils found in chert extend the Barberton microfossil record back to 3.5 billion years. All three types of microfossil morphologies are found in cherts. Chert can have a variety of colours, but microfossils are typically found in black cherts, as the dark color can indicate organic material.\n\nScientists have established the approximate age that life first appears in the fossil record, but that doesn't necessarily equal the time that life first evolved on Earth. Though fossils have not been found in older rocks, evidence for life can be found in other ways, such as extended carbon isotope data and Raman Spectroscopy. There is also ongoing work within the scientific community to solve the problem of how cellular life evolved in a hostile early earth.\n"}
{"id": "31894521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31894521", "title": "Barry Downing", "text": "Barry Downing\n\nBarry Downing (also known as B. H. Downing) born 1938 in Syracuse, New York is a Presbyterian minister and ancient astronaut proponent. His book \"The Bible and Flying Saucers\" in 1968, claims UFO phenomena are responsible for many of the events in the Bible. \n\nDowning holds a PhD in the relation between religion and science from the University of Edinburgh of Scotland. He also has a B.A in physics from Hartwick College, and a degree from Princeton Theological Seminary. In 2008 he served as a delegate from Princeton Theological Seminary to the Inauguration of Margaret Drugovich as the 10th President of Hartwick College. He was pastor of the Northminster Presbyterian Church in Endwell, New York. At Edinburgh Downing studied under Prof. John McIntyre, and Prof. Thomas F. Torrance; his dissertation, \"Eschatological Implications of the Understanding of Time and Space in the Thought of Isaac Newton\", was accepted in 1966. He is listed in \"Who's Who in Theology and Science\", as well as in \"The Encyclopedia of Extraterrestrial Encounters\". He has served as a consultant in theology to the Mutual UFO Network (MUFON) since 1972, and is on the international board of directors of the Fund for UFO Research (FUFOR).\n\nDowning wrote \"The Bible and Flying Saucers\" in 1968. He wrote in the book that Jesus was an extraterrestrial sent to earth to rid the world of sin and wickedness, he cited biblical lines such as Jesus was from another world (John 8: 23) to support his claims, Downing also believed that Jesus left earth in a flying saucer to another planet, or perhaps another spatial dimension. In the book Downing claimed that angels from the Bible were actually aliens and that the \"angelic aliens\" spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai where he boarded a UFO to receive stone tablets, and specifications for the construction of the Tabernacle. According to Downing, aliens spoke to Elijah and guided the ancient Israelites, providing them with manna in the wilderness. Downing also claimed in the book that a flying vehicle operated by intelligent alien beings was responsible for the parting of the Red Sea.\n\nIn 2009, Downing appeared in a History Channel television series called \"Ancient Aliens\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14143193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14143193", "title": "Bart De Wever", "text": "Bart De Wever\n\nBart Albert Liliane De Wever (; born 21 December 1970) is a Belgian politician. Since 2004 De Wever has been the leader of the New Flemish Alliance (N-VA), a Belgian political party advocating independence for the Flemish region of Belgium within the European Union; he is also a member of the Chamber of Representatives. He played a prominent role in the 2007 Belgian government formation and presided over his party's victory in the 2010 federal elections when N-VA became the largest party in both Flanders and in Belgium as a whole.\n\nSince January 2013 he has been Mayor of Antwerp, following the 2012 municipal elections.\n\nBorn in Mortsel, De Wever attended the \"Katholieke Universiteit Leuven\" (KUL), graduating with a licentiate (equivalent of the master's degree) in History. As a student he was a member of the \"Liberaal Vlaams Studentenverbond\" (LVSV, Liberal Flemish Students' Union), the \"Katholiek Vlaams Hoogstudentenverbond\" (KVHV, Catholic Flemish Students' Union) of Antwerp and Leuven. He is a former editor-in-chief of the KVHV newspapers \"Tegenstroom\" (magazine of KVHV in Antwerp) and \"Ons Leven\" (in Leuven).\n\nHe was employed as a research assistant working on the \"Nieuwe Encyclopedie van de Vlaamse Beweging\" (New Encyclopedia of the Flemish Movement). In 2004, he was elected as party leader of the N-VA with 95% of the votes, being the only candidate up for election.\n\nDe Wever went through a rough stretch in 2006 when he accepted the conservative-liberal Jean-Marie Dedecker as an N-VA member, causing a split with the CD&V party. In order to reconcile the party, Dedecker had to leave. Although he was extensively criticised, the local N-VA leaders permitted De Wever to remain as N-VA president.\n\nIn the 2009 regional elections, his party won an unexpectedly high 13% of the votes, making N-VA the overall winner of the elections together with old cartel partner CD&V. N-VA subsequently joined the government, with De Wever choosing to remain party president and appointing two other party members as ministers in the Flemish Government and one party member as speaker of the Flemish Parliament.\n\nUnder his presidency his party gained around 30% of the votes in Flanders during federal elections held on June 13, 2010. De Wever himself won the most preference votes of the Dutch-speaking region (nearly 800,000).\n\nDe Wever has visited British Prime Minister David Cameron at 10 Downing Street on a number of occasions.\n\nHe is an avowed admirer of Edmund Burke and of his political philosophy.\n\nThe historian is his older brother.\n\n\nAn early election was held on 13 June 2010, resulting in the N-VA winning most votes in the Dutch-speaking areas and the Socialist Party (PS) in French-speaking Belgium. Nationally the two parties were almost even with 27 seats for the N-VA and 26 for the PS, the remaining seats being split between ten other parties. For 541 days after the elections, no agreement could be reached among the parties on a coalition to form a new government and during that period the country continued to be governed by an interim government. On 6 December 2011 the Di Rupo I Government was sworn in. De Wever and the N-VA were not included in the makeup of this government.\n\nRegarding the May 25, 2014 federal election, PS party leader Elio Di Rupo noted that his party will be unwilling to enter into a dialogue with De Wever and the N-VA regarding forming a new federal government.\n\nIn 1996, he was photographed attending a conference held by the French extreme-right \"Front National\" leader Jean-Marie Le Pen. De Wever justified his attendance by arguing that \"in a democracy everyone should have the right to express his opinion, even if it's an opinion I detest. And I always prefer to get my information first hand than to get it in a filtered way.\"\n\nIn October 2007, in reaction to the apology of the Mayor of Antwerp for his city's collaboration in the deportation of Jews during World War II, Bart De Wever said that:\nHe later issued an apology to representatives of Antwerp's Jewish community. Following these events, in an op-ed published in \"Le Monde\", the Belgian French-speaking writer Pierre Mertens claimed that Bart De Wever was a \"convinced negationist leader\". De Wever sued Mertens for this allegation.\n\nIn July 2016, he called Angela Merkel personally responsible for the \"mess she, herself has created\" in relation to the 2016 terrorist attacks in Germany. On the radio channel Radio 1, he \nclaimed that Angela Merkel should have led a European military coalition against ISIS/ISIL in 2015, that she was not a true leader, and insinuated that she could have partially prevented the attacks. De Wever was criticized for this by the leader of the SP.A, John Crombez, who said to be ashamed for the claim that Merkel would be the cause of the \"great problems in Europe\". De Wever's remarks were also countered by other Belgian politicians, as well as by a Flemish journalist. De Wever also claimed that Merkel has caused the rise of Donald Trump, Geert Wilders and Marine Le Pen.\n\nIn December 2013, the Belgian newspaper \"Het Laatste Nieuws\" received a bullet in the post with a letter addressed to Bart De Wever, apparently from a communist extremist. De Wever received police protection.\n\nIn November 2013, De Wever was admitted to hospital with severe anxiety and chest pains. He was readmitted into an intensive care unit in February 2014 with a severe lung infection.\n\nIn March 2014, Bart De Wever made a live appearance at the Flemish television awards, dressed in a Panda suit; a reference to a decision by the Di Rupo government to import two pandas () at a cost per panda greater than the legal maximum director's salary in Belgium. Nevertheless, because those pandas are initially gifts from the People's Republic of China, Di Rupo thought of it as impolite to refuse.\n"}
{"id": "36562765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36562765", "title": "Battle of Roncevaux Pass (824)", "text": "Battle of Roncevaux Pass (824)\n\nThe Battle of Roncevaux Pass was a battle in which a combined Basque-Qasawi Muslim army defeated a Carolingian military expedition in 824. The battle took place only 46 years after the first Battle of Roncevaux Pass (778) in a confrontation showing similar features: a Basque force engaging from the mountains a northbound expedition led by the Franks, and the same geographical setting (the Roncevaux Pass or a spot nearby).\n\nThe battle resulted in the defeat of the Carolingian military expedition and the capture of its commanders Aeblus and Aznar Sánchez in 824. The clash was to have further reaching consequences than those of the 778 engagement: the immediate establishment of the independent Kingdom of Pamplona. \n\nAfter Louis the Pious' half-hearted expedition to Pamplona circa 814, Basque tribal chieftain Enneko Aritza, who held strong family ties with the Banu Qasi led by his half-brother Musa, prevailed in the fortress circa 816 (or earlier) after news of Charlemagne's death (814) spread and a Frankish vassal, Belasko of Pamplona— \"Velasco\", cited as \"Balashk al-Yalashki\" in Muslim sources—was defeated in the Battle of Pancorbo. In 816, the revolt in Pamplona extended north across the Pyrenees, and in 816 Louis the Pious deposed Seguin (Sihimin) Duke of Vasconia and count of Bordeaux, who had been created duke of Vasconia in 812, for failing to suppress or sympathising with the rebellion, triggering a widespread revolt. \n\nThe Basque lords on both sides of the Pyrenees rebelled, but were soon subdued in Dax by Louis (817). Lupus Centullo was then appointed duke (818), but was immediately deposed after he rebelled. Meanwhile, in Aragon (Jaca) the pro-Frankish count Aznar Galindez was overthrown by Enneko´s allied count Garcia Malo (Garcia, 'the young' in old Basque) in 820. All Vasconia remained at this point in a shaky state of rebellion and the Frankish tenure on the Hispanic Marches was shifting out of control.\n\nIn 824 an expedition was mustered by the Carolingian king in the Vasconia remaining under Frankish overlordship (north of the Pyrenees). The military force was headed by the Duke of Vasconia Aznar Sanchez, who led Basque troops hailing from current Gascony, and count Aeblus (\"\"Aeblus et Asinarius comites cum copiis Wasconum ad Pampilonam missi\"), commanding a Frankish army. The military force headed south with a view to quashing the Basque rebellion centred in Pamplona. The expedition arrived in the Basque stronghold, but encountered no resistance, and with the expedition having accomplished their goals, made their way back north with goods looted from the town. \n\nHowever, on the sinuous narrow passes of the region of Cize (according to Umayyad chroniclers), a joint force of Navarrese (Enneko Aritza), Aragonese and Banu Qasi warriors awaited them hidden in the forests. The Basques engaged the two columns in their terrain. The Carolingian forces were routed, and the two commanders of the expedition were captured.\n\nWhile the Frankish count Aeblus was sent prisoner to Córdoba, Aznar Sánchez was released thanks to his kinship with the captors (\"Asinarius vero misericordia eorum, qui eum ceperant, quasi qui consanguineus eorum esset\"\") a fact that evidenced the good relations entertained at that moment by the joint Banu Qasi - Arista tandem with the Cordovan Umayyad, maybe after the accession to the throne of Abd ar-Rahman II in 822.\n\nEnneko Aritza emerged victorious after the battle and became the undisputed ruler of Pamplona. The new independent Basque kingdom brought about the definite detachment of the territories south of the Pyrenées from the Duchy of Vasconia suzerain to the Franks, as well as the loss of control over the Hispanic Marches for them and the start of an on-off alliance between the kings of Pamplona and the muwallad Banu Qasi.\n\n"}
{"id": "55278837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55278837", "title": "Bautista Álvarez", "text": "Bautista Álvarez\n\nBautista Goyel Álvarez Domínguez (1933 – 16 September 2017) was a Spanish Galician nationalist politician and historian. He was born in San Amaro, Spain. Álvarez, who was a founding member of the Galician People's Union in 1964, also served as the Galician political party's President from 1964 through 1977.\n\nÁlvarez died of a heart attack on 16 September 2017 at his sister's home in Beariz, Spain at the age of 84.\n\n"}
{"id": "62385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62385", "title": "Beatnik", "text": "Beatnik\n\nBeatnik was a media stereotype prevalent throughout the 1950s to mid-1960s that displayed the more superficial aspects of the Beat Generation literary movement of the 1950s. Elements of the beatnik trope included pseudo-intellectualism, drug use, and a cartoonish depiction of real-life people along with the spiritual quest of Jack Kerouac's autobiographical fiction.\n\nIn 1948, Kerouac introduced the phrase \"Beat Generation\", generalizing from his social circle to characterize the underground, anticonformist youth gathering in New York at that time. The name came up in conversation with John Clellon Holmes, who published an early Beat Generation novel titled \"Go\" (1952), along with the manifesto \"This Is the Beat Generation\" in \"The New York Times Magazine\". In 1954, Nolan Miller published his third novel \"Why I Am So Beat\" (Putnam), detailing the weekend parties of four students.\n\nThe adjective \"beat\" was introduced to the group by Herbert Huncke, though Kerouac expanded the meaning of the term. \"Beat\" came from underworld slang—the world of hustlers, drug addicts and petty thieves, where Allen Ginsberg and Kerouac sought inspiration. \"Beat\" was slang for \"beaten down\" or downtrodden, but to Kerouac and Ginsberg, it also had a spiritual connotation as in \"beatitude.\" Other adjectives discussed by Holmes and Kerouac were \"found\" and \"furtive.\" Kerouac felt he had identified (and was the embodiment of) a new trend analogous to the influential Lost Generation.\n\nIn \"Aftermath: The Philosophy of the Beat Generation,\" Kerouac criticized what he saw as a distortion of his visionary, spiritual ideas:\n\nThe Beat Generation, that was a vision that we had, John Clellon Holmes and I, and Allen Ginsberg in an even wilder way, in the late Forties, of a generation of crazy, illuminated hipsters suddenly rising and roaming America, serious, bumming and hitchhiking everywhere, ragged, beatific, beautiful in an ugly graceful new way—a vision gleaned from the way we had heard the word \"beat\" spoken on street corners on Times Square and in the Village, in other cities in the downtown city night of postwar America—beat, meaning down and out but full of intense conviction. We'd even heard old 1910 Daddy Hipsters of the streets speak the word that way, with a melancholy sneer. It never meant juvenile delinquents, it meant characters of a special spirituality who didn't gang up but were solitary Bartlebies staring out the dead wall window of our civilization ...\n\nKerouac explained what he meant by \"beat\" at a Brandeis Forum, \"Is There A Beat Generation?\", on November 8, 1958 at New York's Hunter College Playhouse. The seminar's panelists were Kerouac, James A. Wechsler, Princeton anthropologist Ashley Montagu and author Kingsley Amis. Wechsler, Montagu, and Amis wore suits, while Kerouac was clad in black jeans, ankle boots and a checkered shirt. Reading from a prepared text, Kerouac reflected on his beat beginnings:\n\nIt is because I am Beat, that is, I believe in beatitude and that God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten son to it ... Who knows, but that the universe is not one vast sea of compassion actually, the veritable holy honey, beneath all this show of personality and cruelty?\n\nKerouac's statement was later published as \"The Origins of the Beat Generation\" (\"Playboy\", June 1959). In that article, Kerouac noted how his original beatific philosophy had been ignored amid maneuvers by several pundits, among them San Francisco newspaper columnist Herb Caen, to alter Kerouac's concept with jokes and jargon:\n\nI went one afternoon to the church of my childhood and had a vision of what I must have really meant with \"Beat\"... the vision of the word Beat as being to mean beatific ... People began to call themselves beatniks, beats, jazzniks, bopniks, bugniks, and finally I was called the \"avatar\" of all this.\n\nIn light of what he considered \"beat\" to mean and what \"beatnik\" had come to mean, Kerouac once observed to a reporter, \"I'm not a beatnik, I'm a Catholic\", showing the reporter a painting of Pope Paul VI and saying, \"You know who painted that? Me.\"\n\nIn her memoir, \"Minor Characters\", Joyce Johnson described how the stereotype was absorbed into American culture:\n\nKerouac biographer Ann Charters noted that the term \"Beat\" was appropriated to become a Madison Avenue marketing tool:\n\nLee Streiff, an acquaintance of many members of the movement who went on to become one of its chroniclers, believed that the news media saddled the movement for the long term with a set of false images:\n\nThe word \"beatnik\" was coined by Herb Caen in his column in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" on April 2, 1958. Caen wrote \"Look magazine, preparing a picture spread on S.F.'s Beat Generation (oh, no, not AGAIN!), hosted a party in a No. Beach house for 50 Beatniks, and by the time word got around the sour grapevine, over 250 bearded cats and kits were on hand, slopping up Mike Cowles' free booze. They're only Beat, y'know, when it comes to work . . .\" Caen coined the term by adding the Russian suffix \"-nik\" to the Beat Generation.\n\nCaen's column with the word came six months after the launch of \"Sputnik I\". Objecting to the term, Allen Ginsberg wrote to the \"New York Times\" to deplore \"the foul word beatnik\", commenting, \"If beatniks and not illuminated Beat poets overrun this country, they will have been created not by Kerouac but by industries of mass communication which continue to brainwash man.\"\n\nIn the vernacular of the period, \"Beat\" referred to Beat culture, attitude and literature; while \"beatnik\" referred to a stereotype found in cartoon drawings and twisted, sometimes violent media characters. In 1995, film scholar Ray Carney wrote about the authentic beat attitude as differentiated from stereotypical media portrayals of the beatnik:\nMuch of Beat culture represented a negative stance rather than a positive one. It was animated more by a vague feeling of cultural and emotional displacement, dissatisfaction, and yearning, than by a specific purpose or program ... It was many different, conflicting, shifting states of mind.\n\nSince 1958, the terms Beat Generation and Beat have been used to describe the antimaterialistic literary movement that began with Kerouac in the 1940s and continued into the 1960s. The Beat philosophy of antimaterialism and soul searching influenced 1960s musicians such as Bob Dylan, the early Pink Floyd and The Beatles.\n\nHowever, the soundtrack of the beat movement was the modern jazz pioneered by saxophonist Charlie Parker and trumpeter Dizzy Gillespie, which the media dubbed bebop. Jack Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg spent much of their time in New York jazz clubs such as the Royal Roost, Minton's Playhouse, Birdland and the Open Door, shooting the breeze and digging the music. Charlie Parker, Dizzy Gillespie and Miles Davis rapidly became what Ginsberg dubbed \"secret heroes\" to this group of aesthetes. The Beat authors borrowed much from the jazz/hipster slang of the 1940s, peppering their works with words such as \"square\", \"cats\", \"cool\" and \"dig\".\n\nAt the time the term \"beatnik\" was coined, a trend existed among young college students to adopt the stereotype. Men emulated the trademark look of bebop trumpeter Dizzy Gillespie by wearing goatees, horn-rimmed glasses and berets, rolling their own cigarettes, and playing bongos. Fashions for women included black leotards and long, straight, unadorned hair, in a rebellion against the middle-class culture of beauty salons. Marijuana use was associated with the subculture, and during the 1950s, Aldous Huxley's \"The Doors of Perception\" further influenced views on drugs.\n\nBy 1960, a small \"beatnik\" group in Newquay, Cornwall, England (including a young Wizz Jones) had attracted the attention and abhorrence of their neighbours for growing their hair beyond shoulder length, resulting in a television interview with Alan Whicker on BBC television's \"Tonight\" series.\n\nThe Beat philosophy was generally countercultural and antimaterialistic, and stressed the importance of bettering one's inner self over material possessions. Some Beat writers, such as Alan Watts, began to delve into Eastern religions such as Buddhism and Taoism. Politics tended to be liberal, left-wing and anti-war, with support for causes such as desegregation (although many of the figures associated with the original Beat movement, particularly Kerouac, embraced libertarian and conservative ideas). An openness to African American culture and arts was apparent in literature and music, notably jazz. While Caen and other writers implied a connection with communism, no obvious or direct connection occurred between Beat philosophy, as expressed by the literary movement's leading authors, and that of the communist movement, other than the antipathy both philosophies shared towards capitalism. Those with only a superficial familiarity with the Beat movement often saw this similarity and assumed the two movements had more in common.\n\nThe Beat movement introduced Asian religions to Western society. These religions provided the Beat generation with new views of the world and corresponded with its desire to rebel against conservative middle-class values of the 1950s, old post-1930s radicalism, mainstream culture, and institutional religions in America.\n\nBy 1958, many Beat writers published writings on Buddhism. This was the year Jack Kerouac published his novel \"The Dharma Bums\", whose central character (whom Kerouac based on himself) sought Buddhist contexts for events in his life.\n\nAllen Ginsberg's spiritual journey to India in 1963 also influenced the Beat movement. After studying religious texts alongside monks, Ginsburg deduced that what linked the function of poetry to Asian religions was their mutual goal of achieving ultimate truth. His discovery of Hindu mantra chants, a form of oral delivery, subsequently influenced Beat poetry. Beat pioneers who followed a Buddhism-influenced spiritual path appreciated Asian religions's profound understanding of human nature and insights into the being, existence and reality of mankind. Many of the Beat advocates believed that the core concepts of Asia religious philosophies had the means of elevating American society's consciousness, and these concepts informed their main ideologies.\n\nNotable Beat writers such as Kerouac, Ginsberg, and Gary Snyder were drawn to Buddhism to the extent that they each, at different periods in their lives, followed a spiritual path in their quests to provide answers to universal questions and concepts. As a result, the Beat philosophy stressed the bettering of the inner self and the rejection of materialism, and postulated that East Asian religions could fill a religious and spiritual void in the lives of many Americans.\n\nMany scholars speculate that Beat writers wrote about Eastern religions to encourage young people to practice spiritual and sociopolitical action. Progressive concepts from these religions, particularly those regarding personal freedom, influenced youth culture to challenge capitalist domination, break their generation's dogmas, and reject traditional gender and racial rules.\n\nPossibly the first movie portrayal of the Beat society was in the 1949 film \"D.O.A\", directed by Rudolph Maté. In the film the main character goes to a loud San Francisco bar, where one woman shouts to the musicians: \"Cool! Cool! Really cool!\" One of the characters says, \"Man, am I really hip\", and another replies, \"You're from nowhere, nowhere!\". Lone dancers are seen moving to the beat. Some are dressed with accessories and have hairstyles that one would expect to see in much later films. Typical 1940s attire is mixed with beatnik clothing styles, particularly in one male who has a beatnik hat, long hair, and a mustache and goatee, but is still wearing a dress suit. The bartender refers to a patron as \"Jive Crazy\" and talks of the music driving its followers crazy. He then tells one man to \"Calm down Jack!\" and the man replies, \"Oh don't bother me, man. I'm being enlightened!\". The scene also demonstrates the connection to and influence of 1940s genres of African American music such as Bebop on the emergence of Beat culture. The featured band \"Jive\" is all-black, while the customers who express their appreciation for the music in a jargon that would come to characterize the stereotype of Beat culture are young white hipsters.\n\nThe 1953 Dalton Trumbo movie \"Roman Holiday\" starring Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck features a supporting character played by Eddie Albert that is a stereotypical beatnik, appearing five years before the term was coined. He has an Eastern European surname, Radovich, and is a promiscuous photographer who wears baggy clothes, a striped T-shirt and a beard, which is mentioned four times in the screenplay.\n\nStanley Donen brought the theme to the film musical in \"Funny Face\" (1957) with one Audrey Hepburn production number revamped into a Gap commercial in 2006. One of Jerry Yulsman's photographs of Kerouac was altered for use in a Gap print ad, in which Joyce Johnson was omitted from the image.\n\nAnother film involving beatnik culture is Roger Corman's 1959 black comedy \"A Bucket of Blood,\" written by Charles B. Griffith. In the film, a coffee house busboy longs for acceptance by the beatnik patrons, so he develops a style of sculpture using dead animals and people. An influential character in the film is the beatnik poet, who convinces the group to accept the busboy as a significant artist. Indicating his acceptance into the group, an adoring female fan surreptitiously gives the artist a vial of heroin, implying that drug use was an accepted, and perhaps required, part of beatnik culture. The film's soundtrack is cool, horn-based jazz. There is also a performance by a singer with an acoustic guitar. Rock & roll music is absent, despite its popularity and counter-cultural aspect. One possibility is that the upbeat feel of rock & roll music was at odds with the detached, low-key, nihilistic attitude of the beat society.\n\nThe character Maynard G. Krebs, played on TV by Bob Denver in \"The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis\" (1959–63), solidified the stereotype of the indolent non-conformist beatnik, which contrasted with the aggressively rebellious Beat-related images presented by popular film actors of the early and mid-1950s, notably Marlon Brando and James Dean.\nThe subculture surfaced on Broadway as musical comedy in \"The Nervous Set\" (1959) by \"Neurotica\" editor Jay Landesman and Theodore J. Flicker with music by Tommy Wolf and lyrics by Fran Landesman; this was the source of two jazz standards, \"Spring Can Really Hang You Up the Most\" and \"The Ballad of the Sad Young Men\" (recorded by Gil Evans, Anita O'Day, Mark Murphy (singer), Roberta Flack, Petula Clark, Rod McKuen, Shirley Bassey and others). The show opened with the song, \"Man, We're Beat\".\n\n\"The Beat Generation\" (1959) made an association of the movement with crime and violence, as did \"The Beatniks\" (1960). The notion of violence or other criminality possibly arose because hardcore outlaws and criminals were popularly portrayed as using many of the same jive terms in their speech, and this distortion could also be seen in popular TV shows with regard to the contemporary greasers as well as the hippies a few years later.\n\nThe 1960 Jerry Lewis film \"Visit to a Small Planet\", based on a satirical Gore Vidal play, features Lewis as an alien who entrances beatniks at a nightclub (\"we don't use floors ... we use fog\") and who appears to understand a scat song as being in an intelligible language.\n\nThe film \"The Rebel\" (US: \"Call Me Genius\", 1961) featuring British comedian Tony Hancock's tells of a London office clerk who moves to Paris to pursue his vocation as an artist of the Beat Generation; the film satirizes pseudointellectuals.\n\n\"Two for the Seesaw\" was a successful Broadway play by William Gibson and was made into a 1962 film which portrayed the fated romance between a small town square (Jerry) and Greenwich Village beatnik chick (Gittel). Jerry is perplexed by what he perceives as Gittel's chaotic and promiscuous lifestyle and goes back to his wife in hicksville.\n\nThe \"Looney Tunes\" cartoon character Cool Cat is often portrayed as a beatnik, as is the banty rooster in the 1963 Foghorn Leghorn short \"Banty Raids\". Similarly, the \"Beany and Cecil\" cartoon series also had a beatnik character, Go Man Van Gogh (aka \"The Wildman\"), who often lives in the jungle and paints various pictures and backgrounds to fool his enemies, first appearing in the episode, \"The Wildman of Wildsville.\" Hanna Barbera's series \"Top Cat\" features Spook, a beatnik cat; and their series \"Scooby-Doo\", features a beatnik character Shaggy. In the animated series \"The Simpsons\", the parents of character Ned Flanders are beatniks.\n\nIn the animated television series \"Doug\", Doug's older sister, Judy Funnie, is characterized as a beatnik.\n\nTwo beatniks (played by Ric Ocasek and Pia Zadora) painted furiously and played bongos in John Waters' 1988 \"Hairspray\".\n\nBeat coffeehouses are depicted in \"So I Married an Axe Murderer\" (1993), \"American Pop\" (1981), \"Take Her, She's Mine\" (1964), \"The Flower Drum Song\" (1961), \"The Hudsucker Proxy\" (1994) and episode six, \"Babylon\", of \"Mad Men\".\n\nThe long-running midnight movie series \"Off Beat Cinema\", which debuted in 1993, is hosted by a trio of coffee-drinking beatniks.\n\nIn the 1999 animated film \"The Iron Giant\" the character Dean McCoppin (voiced by Harry Connick Jr.) is portrayed as a beatnik, whose passion is turning discarded items in his junkyard into sculptures.\n\nIn the \"Beavis and Butt-head\" episode \"Buttniks,\" the two giggling, slacker teens find themselves in a beatnik coffee house where Beavis gets buzzed on cappuccinos.\n\nIn the \"Girl Meets World\" episode \"Girl Meets 1961\" four of the main characters discover their ancestors attended a beatnik café in Greenwich Village named Café Hey.\n\nAlan Bisbort's survey, \"Beatniks: A Guide to an American Subculture\", was published by Greenwood Press in 2009 as part of the Greenwood Press Guides to Subcultures and Countercultures series. The book includes a timeline, a glossary and biographical sketches. Others in the Greenwood series: \"Punks\", \"Hippies\", \"Goths\" and \"Flappers\".\n\n\"Tales of Beatnik Glory: Volumes I and II\", by Ed Sanders, is, as its name suggests, a collection of short stories, and a definitive introduction to the beatnik scene as lived by its participants. The author, who went on to found the Fugs, lived in the beatnik epicenter of Greenwich Village and the Lower East Side in the late 1950s and early 1960s.\n\nAmong the humor books, \"Beat, Beat, Beat\" was a 1959 Signet paperback of cartoons by Phi Beta Kappa Princeton graduate William F. Brown, who looked down on the movement from his position in the TV department of the Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn advertising agency.\n\n\"Suzuki Beane\" (1961), by Sandra Scoppettone with Louise Fitzhugh illustrations, was a Bleecker Street beatnik spoof of Kay Thompson's \"Eloise\" series (1956–59).\n\nIn the 1960s, the comic book Justice League of America's sidekick Snapper Carr was also portrayed as a stereotypical beatnik, down to his lingo and clothes. The DC Comics character Jonny Double is also portrayed as a beatnik.\n\nIn San Francisco, Jerry and Estelle Cimino operate their Beat Museum, which began in 2003 in Monterey, California and moved to San Francisco in 2006.\n\nEd \"Big Daddy\" Roth used fiberglass to build his Beatnik Bandit in 1960. Today, this car is in the National Automobile Museum in Reno, Nevada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21673008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21673008", "title": "Berit Nøkleby", "text": "Berit Nøkleby\n\nBerit Nøkleby (25 September 1939 – 26 July 2018) was a Norwegian historian.\n\nShe was born in Drammen, and is a cand.philol. by education. She has contributed to several books on the German occupation of Norway. She wrote book II and IV of the series \"Norge i krig I–VIII. Fremmedåk og frihetskamp 1940–1945\" (II: \"Nyordning\", 1985, and IV: \"Holdningskamp\", 1986). She wrote the book \"Josef Terboven. Hitlers mann i Norge\" (1992), and she was co-editor of the encyclopaedia \"Norsk Krigsleksikon 1940–1945\" (1995).\n\nShe died at the age of 78.\n\n"}
{"id": "5584763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5584763", "title": "Boris Eikhenbaum", "text": "Boris Eikhenbaum\n\nBoris Mikhailovich Eikhenbaum (; October 16, 1886 – November 2, 1959) was a Russian and Soviet literary scholar and historian of Russian literature. He is a representative of Russian formalism.\n\nEikhenbaum was born in Voronezh, the grandson of Jewish mathematician and poet Jacob Eichenbaum. His childhood and adolescence were spent there. After finishing elementary school in 1905, Eikhenbaum went to Petersburg and enrolled in the Kirov Military Medical Academy, soon thereafter in 1906, he enrolled in the biological faculty of the Free High School of P. F. Lesgaft. In parallel he studied music (violin, piano, voice). In 1907 Eikhenbaum left this school and enrolled in the Musical school of E. P. Raprof and the historical-philological faculty of Saint Petersburg State University. In 1909, Eikhenbaum abandoned professional aspirations in music, choosing in favor of philology. In this same year after two years of study in the Slavic-Russian department, Eikhenbaum transferred to the Romance-Germanic department; however, in 1911, he returned to the Slavic-Russian department. In 1912, Eikhenbaum finished his university studies. From 1913 to 1914, Eikhenbaum published in a number of periodicals, and conducted reviews of foreign literature in the newspaper «Русская молва». In 1914, Eikhenbaum began his pedagogical activities, and became a teacher in the school of Y. G. Gurevich.\n\nA key moment in the biography of Eikhenbaum was his involvement with other members of the Society for the Study of Poetic Language (OPOJAZ), which was formed in 1916. In 1918, Eikhenbaum joined OPOJAZ and participated in their research until the middle of the 1920s. Eikhenbaum provided definition and interpretation for the group, with essays such as \"Theory of the \"Formal Method\"\" he helped outline their approach to literature. From 1947 to 1949, Eikhenbaum was victimized by the campaign against \"rootless cosmopolitanism,\" along with Viktor Zhirmunsky, Grigorii Gukovskii, and Mark Azadovsky, but was able to continue his science. Eikhenbaum died at the age of 73 in Leningrad, now St. Petersburg, in 1959.\n\n"}
{"id": "52370620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52370620", "title": "British Institute at Ankara", "text": "British Institute at Ankara\n\nThe British Institute at Ankara (BIAA), formerly British Institute of Archaeology at Ankara, is a research institute that supports, promotes, and publishes research into the humanities and social sciences of Turkey and the Black Sea region. The Institute was founded in 1947 and became legally incorporated in 1956 as part of a cultural agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the United Kingdom. The institute is a UK registered charity and part of the British Academy's Overseas Institutes. The Institute has an office in London and has its base in Ankara, where it maintains a library, research facilities, and accommodation for visiting scholars. \n\nArchaeologist Lutgarde Vandeput is the current Director of the BIAA.\n\nIn addition to funding the publication of research monographs on archaeology and the history of Turkey, the institute regularly publishes the journal \"Anatolian Studies\" and the annual magazine \"Heritage Turkey\". \n\nBy the decision of the Turkish government, all scholars from the United Kingdom wishing to do archeological research in Turkey must channel their permit applications through the British Institute in Ankara. \n\nThe BIAA was founded on 22 November 1947 after proposals by the British archaeologist John Garstang, who became the Institute's first director. He was instrumental in choosing Ankara as the location of the new institute, in contrast to similar existing organizations that were based in Istanbul. The Institute's journal, Anatolian Studies, was first published in 1951, becoming a key reference for all archaeology-related disciplines in the region.\n\nSeton Lloyd succeeded Garstang as director in 1949, In 1961, Michael Gough became the institute's third director. He had a focus on the Byzantine period, with excavations at the church complex at Alahan and at Dağ Pazarı. James Mellaart, as assistant director from 1957 to 1961, started excavations at the site of Çatalhöyük, identifying it as a unique Neolithic settlement. David French became the institute's fourth director in 1968. In 1993 French retired and in 1995 Roger Mathews became the 5th director. Hugh Elton, who was appointed as the director in 2001, changed the name of the British Institute of Archaeology to British Institute. The current director is Lutgarde Vandeput, who became director in 2006.\nBritish archaeologist Shahina Farid is honorary secretary.\n"}
{"id": "15581009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15581009", "title": "Brynjar Lia", "text": "Brynjar Lia\n\nBrynjar Lia (born July 14, 1966) is a Norwegian historian and professor of Middle East Studies at Department of Culture Studies and Oriental Languages at the University of Oslo. He is also an adjunct research professor at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment (FFI) where he headed FFI's research on international terrorism and global jihadism between 1999 and 2011. Lia is viewed as one of Norway's foremost experts on terrorism and is much cited in Norwegian and international media in connection to Al-Qaeda and international terrorism. Lia's last book is about Abu Musab al-Suri, which has been reviewed in publications like \"Newsweek\", \"The Economist\", \"London Review of Books\", and \"The New York Review of Books\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38981988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38981988", "title": "Béla Tomka", "text": "Béla Tomka\n\nBéla Tomka (born 8 May 1962 in Salgótarján) is a Hungarian historian and a professor at the Department of History, University of Szeged. His main research area is 20th century social and economic history with a special emphasis on international comparisons.\n\nHe earned a master’s degree in History and History of Eastern Europe at the University of Szeged, followed by postgraduate studies in economic and social history at the Corvinus University Budapest, in the United States (Minneapolis) and in Germany (Münster). He gained the dr. univ. degree in History in 1995, while a year later he received his PhD title in Economic and Social History. In his dissertation, later published as a book, he analyzed the relationship between banks and industry in Hungary at the turn of the 19th and 20th century, based on a wide range of archival sources. At the same time his aim was to reevaluate the arguments developed by R. Hilferding and A. Gerschenkron that have been influencing international economic history for many years. Tomka defended his habilitation thesis (‘venia legendi’) in 2004. In 2010 the Hungarian Academy of Sciences awarded him the Higher Doctorate (DSc) title. This dissertation aimed at determining the place of Hungary in the system of 20th-century European social and economic convergences and divergences with the systematic empirical analysis of several social and economic fields.\n\nWithin the social and economic history of 20th century Hungary and Europe, his research has centred on changes of population and family patterns and the welfare state. His latest works has focused on the comparative history of economic growth, consumption and the quality of life in East Central Europe.\n\nSince 1992 he is co-editor of , a Quarterly Journal of History and Related Disciplines, while being a member of other editorial boards of academic periodicals as well (Esély, a Journal of Social Policy; The Hungarian Historical Review). He is a board member of the István Hajnal Society of Social History. In 2010 he was elected as board member of the International Social History Association (ISHA, Amsterdam) and since 2011 he has been editor of the newsletter of this association. He is also an external founding member of the Social and Economic History PhD program at Eötvös University (ELTE, Budapest).\n\nHe has been invited by several research institutes and universities in Europe and North-America as research fellow and visiting professor, including Amsterdam, Mannheim, Berlin, Oxford, Edinburgh, Portland (OR) and Jena. He is the author of 14 books and editor of several other volumes, as well as a number of scholarly articles. His major awards include the Bolyai Award for Outstanding Scholarly Contributions (2010) by the Bolyai Foundation Budapest, the Award of the Academy (for Distinguished Scholarly Achievement) endowed by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in 2010, and Outstanding Academic Title 2013 Award by Choice, American Library Association (for A Social History of Twentieth-Century Europe, London and New York: Routledge, 2013).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1928408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1928408", "title": "Chanel No. 5", "text": "Chanel No. 5\n\nChanel No. 5 was the first perfume launched by French couturier Gabrielle \"Coco\" Chanel. The chemical formula for the fragrance was compounded by French-Russian chemist and perfumer Ernest Beaux. The modern commercial product no longer contains all the original ingredients. The design of its bottle has been an important part of the product's allure. \n\nTraditionally, fragrances worn by women fell into two basic categories: \"respectable women\" favored the essence of a single garden flower. Sexually provocative perfumes heavy with animal musk or jasmine were associated with women of the demi-monde, prostitutes, or courtesans. Chanel sought a new scent that would appeal to the flapper and celebrate the liberated spirit of the 1920s.\nAt the age of twelve, Chanel was handed over to the care of nuns, and for the next six years spent a stark, disciplined existence in a convent orphanage, Aubazine, founded by 12th century Cistercians in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region of central France. From her earliest days there, the number five had potent associations for her. For Chanel, the number five was especially esteemed as signifying the pure embodiment of a thing, its spirit, its mystic meaning. The paths that led Chanel to the cathedral for daily prayers were laid out in circular patterns repeating the number five.\n\nHer affinity for the number five co-mingled with the abbey gardens, and by extension the lush surrounding hillsides abounding with \"Cistus\" (rock roses).\n\nIn 1920, when presented with small glass vials containing sample scents numbered 1 to 5 and 20 to 24 for her assessment, she chose the fifth vial. Chanel told her master perfumer, Ernest Beaux, whom she had commissioned to develop a new fragrance, \"I present my dress collections on the fifth of May, the fifth month of the year and so we will let this sample number five keep the name it has already, it will bring good luck.\"\n\nChanel envisioned a design that would be an antidote for the over-elaborate, precious fussiness of the crystal fragrance bottles then in fashion popularized by Lalique and Baccarat. Her bottle would be \"pure transparency ...an invisible bottle.\" It is generally considered that the bottle design was inspired by the rectangular beveled lines of the Charvet toiletry bottles, which, outfitted in a leather traveling case, were favored by her lover, Arthur \"Boy\" Capel. Some say it was the whiskey decanter he used that she admired and wished to reproduce in \"exquisite, expensive, delicate glass.\"\n\nThe first bottle produced in 1919, differed from the Chanel No. 5 bottle known today. The original container had small, delicate, rounded shoulders and was sold only in Chanel boutiques to select clients. In 1924, when \"Parfums Chanel\" incorporated, the glass proved too thin to survive shipping and distribution. The bottle was modified with square, faceted corners, its only significant design change. In a 1924 marketing brochure, \"Parfums Chanel\" described the bottle as, \"the perfection of the product forbids dressing it in the customary artifices. Why rely on the art of the glassmaker...Mademoiselle is proud to present simple bottles adorned only by...precious teardrops of perfume of incomparable quality, unique in composition, revealing the artistic personality of their creator.\"\n\nUnlike the bottle, which has remained the same since the 1924 redesign, the stopper has gone through numerous modifications. The original stopper was a small glass plug. The octagonal stopper, which became a brand signature, was created in 1924, when the bottle shape was changed. The 1950s gave the stopper a bevel cut and a larger, thicker silhouette. In the 1970s the stopper became even more prominent but, in 1986, it was re-proportioned so its size was more harmonious with the scale of the bottle.\n\nThe \"pocket \"flaçon\", designed to be carried in a purse, was introduced in 1934. The price point and container size were reduced to appeal to a broader customer base.\n\nThe bottle, over the decades, has itself become an identifiable cultural artifact, so much so that Andy Warhol chose to commemorate its iconic status in the mid-1980s with his pop art, silk-screened, \"Ads: Chanel\". \n\nA limited-edition, crimson red crystal glass bottle in the three editions of Chanel No. 5, \"Eau de Parfum\", \"Parfum\", and \"L'Eau\", is slated to be launched for Christmas 2018..\n\nIn 1924, Chanel made an agreement with the Wertheimer brothers, Pierre and Paul, directors of the eminent perfume house, Bourjois, creating a new corporate entity, \"Parfums Chanel\"\". The Wertheimers agreed to manage production, marketing, and distribution of Chanel No. 5. The Wertheimers would receive a 70 percent share of the company, and Théophile Bader, founder of the Paris department store, Galeries Lafayette, would receive 20 percent. Bader had been instrumental in brokering the business connection by introducing Chanel to Pierre Wertheimer at the Longchamps races in 1922. For 10 percent of the stock, Chanel licensed her name to \"Parfums Chanel\" and removed herself from involvement in all business operations. Later, unhappy with the arrangement, Chanel worked for more than twenty years to gain full control of \"Parfums Chanel\". She proclaimed that Pierre Wertheimer was \"the bandit who screwed me\". \n\nWorld War II brought with it the Nazi seizure of all Jewish-owned property and businesses, providing Chanel with the opportunity to gain control of \"Parfums Chanel\" and its most profitable product, Chanel No. 5. The directors of \"Parfums Chanel\", the Wertheimers, were Jewish, and Chanel used her position as an \"Aryan\" to petition German officials to legalize her right to sole ownership.\n\nOn 5 May 1941, Chanel wrote to the government administrator charged with ruling on the disposition of Jewish financial assets. Her grounds for proprietary ownership were based on the claim that \"Parfums Chanel\" \"is still the property of Jews\" and had been legally \"abandoned\" by the owners.\n\nI have, an indisputable right of priority...the profits that I have received from my creations since the foundation of this business...are disproportionate...[and] you can help to repair in part the prejudices I have suffered in the course of these seventeen years.\n\nChanel was not aware that the Wertheimers, anticipating the forthcoming Nazi confiscations had, in May 1940, legally turned control of \"Parfums Chanel\" over to a Christian, French businessman and industrialist Felix Amiot. At the end of World War II, Amiot returned \"Parfums Chanel\" to the Wertheimers.\n\nBy the mid-1940s, the worldwide sales of Chanel No. 5 amounted to nine million dollars annually (approximately US$240 million today). The monetary stakes were high and Chanel was determined to wrest control of \"Parfums Chanel\" from the Wertheimers. Chanel's plan was to destroy customer confidence in the brand, tarnish the image, crippling its marketing and distribution. She let it be known that Chanel No. 5 was no longer the original fragrance created by \"Mademoiselle Chanel\", it was no longer being compounded according to her standards and what was now being offered to the public was an inferior product, one she could no longer endorse. Further, Chanel announced she would make available an authentic Chanel No. 5, to be named \"Mademoiselle Chanel No. 5\", offered to a group of select clients.\n\nChanel possibly was unaware that the Wertheimers, who had fled from France to New York in 1940, had instituted a process whereby the quality of Chanel No. 5 would not be compromised. In America the Wertheimers had recruited H. Gregory Thomas as European emissary for \"Parfums Chanel\". Thomas's mission was to establish the mechanisms required to maintain the quality of the Chanel products, particularly its most profitable fragrance, Chanel No. 5. Thomas worked to ensure that the supply of key components, the oils of jasmine and tuberose, obtained exclusively in the French town of Grasse, remained uninterrupted by war. Thomas was later promoted to position as president of Chanel US, a position he held for thirty-two years.\n\nChanel escalated her game plan by instigating a lawsuit against \"Parfums Chanel\" and the Wertheimers. The legal battle garnered wide publicity. \"The New York Times\" reported on 3 June 1946:\n\nThe suit asks that the French parent concern [\"Les Parfums Chanel\"] be ordered to cease manufacture and sale of all products bearing the name and restore to her the ownership and sole rights over the products, formulas and manufacturing process [on grounds of] 'inferior quality'.\n\nThe Wertheimers were aware of Chanel's collaboration during the Nazi occupation. The progress of legal proceedings would of necessity lead to revelations best kept from public scrutiny. \"Forbes\" magazine summarized the Wertheimers' dilemma: \"[Pierre Wertheimer worries that] a legal fight might illuminate Chanel's wartime activities and wreck her image—and his business\".\n\nUltimately, the Wertheimers and Chanel came to an agreement, re-negotiating the original 1924 contract. On 17 May 1947, Chanel received her share of the wartime profits of Chanel No. 5, an amount equivalent to some nine million of today's dollars. Post-war, her share would be two percent of all Chanel No. 5 sales worldwide. The financial benefit to her would be enormous. Her earnings would be in the vicinity of US$25 million a year, making her at the time one of the richest women in the world. The new arrangement also gave Chanel the freedom to create new scents, which would be independent of \"Parfums Chanel\", with the proviso that none would contain the number \"5\" in its name. She never acted on this opportunity.\n\nChanel's initial marketing strategy was to generate buzz for her new fragrance by hosting a promotional event. She invited a group of elite friends to dine with her in an elegant restaurant in Grasse where she surprised and delighted her guests by spraying them with Chanel No. 5. The official launch place and date of Chanel No. 5 was in her boutique in the fifth month of the year, on the fifth day of the month: 5 May 1921. She infused the shop's dressing rooms with the scent, and she gave bottles to a select few of her high society friends. The success of Chanel No. 5 was immediate. Chanel's friend Misia Sert exclaimed: \"It was like a winning lottery ticket.\"\n\n\"Parfums Chanel\" was the corporate entity established in 1924 to run the production, marketing, and distribution of the fragrance business. Chanel wanted to spread the sale of Chanel No. 5 from beyond her boutiques to the rest of the world. The first new market was New York City. The initial marketing was discreet and deliberately restricted. The first ad appeared in \"The New York Times\" on 16 December 1924. It was a small ad for \"Parfums Chanel\" announcing the Chanel line of fragrances available at Bonwit Teller, an upscale department store. In the ad, all the bottles were indistinguishable from each another, displaying all the Chanel perfumes available, Numbers 9, 11, 22, and the centerpiece of the line, No. 5. This was the extent of the advertising campaign in the 1920s and appeared only intermittently. In the US, the sale of Chanel No. 5 was promoted at perfume counters in high-end department stores. The \"Galeries Lafayette\" was the first retailer of the fragrance in Paris. In France itself, Chanel No. 5 was not advertised until the 1940s.\n\nThe first solo advertisement for Chanel No. 5 ran in \"The New York Times\" on 10 June 1934.\n\nIn the early-1940s, when other perfume makers were increasing brand exposure, \"Parfums Chanel\" took a contrary track and decreased advertising. In 1939 and 1940, Chanel ads had been prominent. By 1941, there was almost no Chanel print advertising. The directors of \"Parfums Chanel\" may have felt the expenditure was not needed. Fragrance sales flourished during World War II. Perfume sales in the United States from 1940 to 1945 had increased tenfold; Chanel No. 5 prospered.\n\nDuring the war years the directors of \"Parfums Chanel\" came up with an innovative marketing idea. Expanding sales to the middle-class customer had been started in 1934 with the introduction of the pocket \"flaçon\". The plan was now to grow the market by selling the perfume at military post exchanges. It was a risky move that might have damaged the allure of the brand. It did not destroy the cachet of the brand; instead it became a souvenir the soldier coveted for his sweetheart back home.\n\nAt the end of World War II, Coco Chanel's wartime collaboration threatened her with arrest and incarceration. In an attempt at damage control, she placed a sign in the window of her rue Cambon boutique, announcing that free bottles of Chanel No. 5 were available to American GIs. Soldiers waited in long lines to take a bottle of Paris \"luxe\" back home, and \"would have been outraged if the French police had touched a hair on her head.\"\n\nIn the 1950s the glamour of Chanel No. 5 was reignited by the celebrity of Marilyn Monroe. Monroe's unsolicited endorsement of the fragrance provided invaluable publicity. In a 1954 interview, when asked what she wore to bed, the movie star provocatively responded: \"Just a few drops of Chanel No. 5.\"\n\nIn the 1960s the glossy fashion magazines such as \"Vogue\" and \"Bazaar\" presented Chanel No. 5 as a required accessory. Print advertising for Chanel No. 5 was staid and conservative in both visuals and text, eschewing the energy and quirky aesthetic of the youth culture. Two catch phrases alternated as ad copy: \"Every woman alive \"wants\" Chanel No. 5\" and \"Every woman alive \"loves\" Chanel No. 5.\"\n\nDuring the 1950s the ads had diminished the allure of Chanel No. 5, identifying it with a scent for sweet, proper co-eds whose style bibles were teenage fashion magazines. In the 1970s the brand name needed revitalization. For the first time it ran the risk of being labeled as \"mass market\" and \"passé\". The fragrance was removed from drug stores and similar outlets. Outside advertising agencies were dropped. The rebranding was managed by Jacques Helleu, the artistic director for \"Parfums Chanel\". Helleu chose French actress Catherine Deneuve as the new face of Chanel. Print ads showcased the iconic sculpture of the bottle. Television commercials were inventive mini-films with production values of surreal fantasy and seduction. Directed by Ridley Scott in the 1970s and 1980s, they \"played on the same visual imagery, with the same silhouette of the bottle.\"\n\nIn the 1990s, more money was reportedly spent advertising Chanel No. 5 than was spent for the promotion of any other fragrance. Carole Bouquet was the face of Chanel No. 5 during this decade. It has been estimated, as of 2011, that between US$20–25 million is spent annually marketing Chanel No. 5.\n\nIn 2003, actress Nicole Kidman was enlisted to represent the fragrance. Film director Baz Luhrmann, brought in to conceive and direct a new advertising campaign featuring her, described his concept for what he titled \"No. 5 the Film\" as \"a two-minute trailer ... for a film that has actually never been made, not about Chanel No. 5 but Chanel No. 5 is the touchstone\". The eventual commercial, produced in two-minute and 30-second versions, cost ₤18 million, with Kidman paid US$3.7 million for her work.\n\nIn May 2012, the company announced that Brad Pitt would be the first male to advertise Chanel No. 5.\n\nIn 2013 Chanel ran an advertising campaign using a recorded interview with Marilyn Monroe in which she is asked about her use of Chanel No. 5. It featured Ed Feingersh's photograph of the actress splashing herself with a bottle of the perfume. \"On her first cover of \"Life\" magazine in 1957, Marilyn Monroe famously said she wore only Chanel No. 5 to bed. Now, a newly found recording of her from 1960 discussing the subject further with \"Marie Claire\"s editor-in-chief Georges Belmont is being used in a new advertising campaign for the fragrance set to break this fall. She said people pose questions. \"They ask me: 'What do you wear to bed? A pajama top? The bottoms of the pajamas? A nightgown?' So I said, 'Chanel No. 5,' because it's the truth\" she explained. \"And yet, I don't want to say nude. But it's the truth!\"\n\nIn October 2014, Luhrmann again collaborated with Chanel, creating a second advertising campaign for No. 5, this time starring Gisele Bündchen and Michiel Huisman. Throughout the film, singer Lo-Fang performs his slower romantic rendition of \"You're the One That I Want\".\n\nCoco Chanel had wanted to develop a distinctly modern fragrance for some time by early-1920. At this time, Chanel's lover was Grand Duke Dmitri Pavlovich Romanov of Russia, the murderer of Rasputin. The duke introduced her to Ernest Beaux on the French Riviera. Beaux was the master perfumer at A. Rallet and Company, where he had been employed since 1898. The company was the official perfumer to the Russian royal family, and \"the imperial palace at St. Petersburg was a famously perfumed court.\" The favorite scent of the Czarina Alexandra, composed specifically for her by Rallet in Moscow, had been an eau de cologne opulent with rose and jasmine named \"Rallet O-DE-KOLON No.1 Vesovoi.\"\n\nIn 1912, Beaux created a men's cologne, \"Le Bouquet de Napoleon\", to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Borodino, a decisive battle in the Napoleonic Wars. Its success inspired Beaux to create a feminine counterpart, whose starting point was the chemical composition of aldehydic multiflores in Houbigant's immensely popular fragrance, \"Quelques Fleurs\" (1912).\n\nHis experiments with the aldehydes in \"Quelques Fleurs\", resulted in a fragrance that he called \"Le Bouquet de Catherine\". He intended to use the scent to celebrate, in 1913, the 300th anniversary of the Romanoff dynasty. The debut of this new perfume was ill-timed commercially. World War I was approaching, and the czarina and the perfume's namesake, the Empress Catherine, had both been German-born. Timing and unfavorable associations, combined with \"Le Bouquet de Catherine\"'s hefty price tag, made it a commercial failure. An attempt to re-brand the perfume, as \"Rallet No. 1\" was unsuccessful, and the outbreak of World War I in 1914 effectively killed the product.\n\nBeaux, who had affiliated himself with the Allies and the White Russian army, had spent 1917–1919 as a lieutenant stationed far north, in the last arctic outpost of the continent, Arkangelsk, at Mudyug Island Prison where he interrogated Bolshevik prisoners. The polar ice, frigid seascape, and whiteness of the snowy terrain sparked his desire to capture the crisp fragrance of this landscape in a new perfume.\n\nBeaux perfected what was to become Chanel No. 5 over several months in the late summer and autumn of 1920. He worked from the rose and jasmine base of \"Rallet No. 1\", altering it to make it cleaner, more daring, reminiscent of the polar freshness he had experienced during his war years. He experimented with modern synthetics, adding his own invention \"Rose E.B\" and notes derived from a new jasmine source, a commercial ingredient called Jasophore. The revamped, complex formula also increased the quantities of orris root, iris root, and natural musks.\n\nThe key was Beaux's use of aldehydes. Aldehydes are organic compounds of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen. They are manipulated in the laboratory at crucial stages of chemical reaction whereby the process arrests and isolates the scent. When used creatively, aldehydes act as \"seasonings\", an aroma booster. Beaux's student, Constantin Weriguine, said the aldehyde Beaux used had the clean note of the arctic, \"a melting winter note\". Legend has it that this concoction was the result of a mishap. A laboratory assistant, mistaking a full strength mixture for a ten percent dilution, had jolted the compound with a quantity of aldehyde never before used. Beaux prepared ten glass vials for Chanel's assessment. Numbered 1–5 and 20–24, each group a variation of the compound. \"Number five. Yes,\" Chanel said later, \"that is what I was waiting for. A perfume like nothing else. A woman's perfume, with the scent of a woman.\"\n\nAccording to Chanel, the formula used to produce No. 5 has changed little since its creation, except for the necessary exclusion of natural civet and certain nitro-musks.\n\n"}
{"id": "22345115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22345115", "title": "Contemporary Whitehead Studies", "text": "Contemporary Whitehead Studies\n\nContemporary Whitehead Studies (CWS) is an interdisciplinary book series that publishes manuscripts from scholars with contemporary and innovative approaches to Whitehead studies. By publishing innovative and adventurous approaches to Whitehead’s philosophy that engage with the problems, promise, and ideas of the twenty-first century, Contemporary Whitehead Studies creates a vital and dynamic space for scholarly engagement. \nThe book series was founded in 2009 with Rodopi as a special series in the Value Inquiry Book Series. In 2011 the series moved to Lexington Books, an imprint of Rowman & Littlefield.\n\n\nCWS especially seeks projects that:\n\"Contemporary Whitehead Studies\" is affiliated with the Whitehead Research Project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5035505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5035505", "title": "Dario Biocca", "text": "Dario Biocca\n\nDario Biocca teaches European history at the University of Perugia, Italy and is Coordinatore at Scuola di giornalismo Radiotelevisivo (Perugia). He has a Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley and has taught at various institutions in the US and Italy. He is currently at UC Berkeley teaching a course on \"Walls: Separation and Integration\" and 20th Century Italy.\n\nBiocca has published:\n"}
{"id": "18483148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18483148", "title": "Four penny coffin", "text": "Four penny coffin\n\nThe four penny coffin (also referred to as a coffin house) is a Victorian term that described one of the first homeless shelters to be created for the people of central London. It was operated by the Salvation Army during the late 19th and early 20th centuries to provide comfort and aid to its destitute clients. \n\nThe Salvation Army operated other homeless shelters in the area. These shelters charged the clients different amounts depending on the amenities offered. At the low end was a penny sit-up, where a homeless client could get food and shelter from the cold in exchange for a penny. He was allowed to sit on a bench all night, but was not allowed to sleep. For an additional penny, there was the \"two penny hangover\". It was like a penny sit-up except that a rope was placed in front of the bench. The client was allowed to sleep when he leaned on (or hung over) the rope during the night. He was not allowed to lie down flat on his back and sleep. For four pennies, a homeless client could stay at a coffin house. He received food and shelter. Moreover, he was allowed to lie down flat on his back and sleep in a coffin shaped wooden box. The client was given a tarpaulin for covering. What made this unique is that it was the cheapest homeless shelter in London at that time that allowed its clients to lie down on their back and sleep. The Salvation Army also offered shelters that allowed its clients to sleep on a bed for a much higher price. Hence, the coffin house was popular because it offered an economical and midrange solution for homeless clients looking for relief from the cold.\n\nCompared with modern examples this shelter in London is considered inadequate for these individuals. It was however considered an inexpensive and compassionate attempt to deal with the relatively new problem of homelessness. This shelter provided relief from the harsh London winters and was viewed by many at the time as having the benefit of attracting new followers to the Christian faith.\n"}
{"id": "5302511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5302511", "title": "Francisco Javier Alegre", "text": "Francisco Javier Alegre\n\nFrancisco Xavier Alegre (November 12, 1729 – August 16, 1788) was a Jesuit scholar, translator, and historian of New Spain.\n\nAlegre was born in Veracruz, New Spain. He studied philosophy in the Royal College of San Ignacio in Puebla, then canon and civil law in Mexico City and theology in Angelópolis. On March 19, 1747 he entered the novitiate with the Company of Jesus (Jesuits) in Tepozotlán. According to his own account, he learned Italian, Greek, Hebrew and Náhuatl. He was able to preach in Náhuatl. He was a dedicated scholar of theology, history, mathematics, and especially \nclassical literature.\n\nHe later taught grammar in Mexico City, and during those years he learned French. For reasons of health he returned to Veracruz, where he taught for two years. He then returned to Mexico City to take an examination in theology, and there he was ordained a priest.\n\nHis health was still poor. He was sent to Havana, where he taught rhetoric and philosophy for seven years.\n\nOn leaving Havana, he went to Mérida, to the Jesuit college there. He took over the work on the \"Historia de la provincia\" begun by Father Francisco de Florencia (1620–1695). He continued work on this history when he moved to the Royal College and Seminary of San Ildefonso in Mexico City. In less than three years, he finished the \"Historia de la Compañía de Jesús en Nueva España\". This work was on the point of being published when the Jesuits were expelled from the Spanish dominions, on July 25, 1767. When he left New Spain, the manuscript and his sources remained behind.\n\nAlegre died of apoplexy near Bologna, Italy, in 1788. Some of his works remained unpublished at his death.\n\nIn exile, he established himself in Bologna, Italy, and there he rewrote his \"Historia\" from memory, in the form of a compendium. It was published in Mexico in 1841-1842. He also wrote 18 books, published together under the title \"Instituciones teológicas\".\n\nHis literary works included \"Alexandrias\", a short epic poem about the conquest of Tyre by Alexander the Great (1775) and a Latin eclogue entitled \"Nysus\". He also published a Latin translation of the Iliad, at Bologna in 1776 and, after revisions, at Rome in 1788. He translated the first three cantos of Nicolas Boileau's \"L'Art poétique\" into Spanish.\n\nHe left quite a number of shorter works, mostly translations of classics. Among them are the \"Alexandriadas\" (1773, Italy), the \"Iliad\" in Latin (Rome, 1788), \"Homeri Batrachiomachia\" in Latin (Mexico, 1789), together with fragments of Horace and a good translation into Spanish of the first three cantos of the \"Art Poétique\" of Boileau.\n\nBut the work for which he is especially noted is his \"History of the Society of Jesus in New Spain\" (ed. Carlos María Bustamante, Mexico, 1841). Although composed at a time when the order was persecuted in Spanish colonies, and often with great rigor, the tone of this most valuable work, indispensable for the study of the colonial history of Mexico and of many of its Indian tribes, is, according to the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" \"dignified and free from attacks upon Spain and the Spaniards.\".\n\nHe published \"Carta geográfica del hemisferio mexicano\", which introduced some information about New Spain previously unknown to European scholars.\n\nIn 1889, Joaquín García Icazbaleta published his lyrical works under the title \"Opúsculos inéditos latinos y castellanos del P. Francisco Xavier Alegre\" (\"Unedited Latin and Spanish tracts of Father Francisco Xavier Alegre\"). His Latin writing style was pure and classical, comparing well with theologians of the Renaissance.\n\n"}
{"id": "46649294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46649294", "title": "German Forest", "text": "German Forest\n\nThe German Forest () was a phrase used both as a metaphor as well as to describe in exaggerated terms an idyllic landscape in German poems, fairy tales and legends of the early 19th century Romantic period. Historical and cultural discourses declared it as the symbol of Germanic-German art and culture, or as in the case of Heinrich Heine or Madame de Staël, as a counter-image of French urbanity. It was also used with reference to historical or legendary events in German forests, such as Tacitus' description of the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest or even the nature mysticism of the stylized Germanic national myth, the \"Nibelungenlied\" as the history of its multi-faceted reception shows. \n\nThe early conservation and environmental movement, the tourism that was already under way in the 19th century, the youth movement, the social democratic Friends of Nature, the Wandervögel youth groups, the walking clubs and the right-wing Völkisch movement saw in forests an important element of German cultural landscapes.\n\n is the German principle for sustainability, which has been used throughout history and is at the core values of German forestry as a whole. Nachhaltigkeit is what the German forests are famous for throughout the globe, and in terms of environmental practices. German forests in particular through the 19th century had state-issued guards in the forests across Germany, limiting access to citizens in order to preserve resources. This practice helped cut down on deforestation, though like the majority of the western world at this time, did not completely work. This was partly due to the extensive manicuring of the forests, including the rigid structure of growing trees in rows and clearing any underbrush. This weakened the natural ecosystem of the forests, and made the trees more prone to pests and disease.\n\nGermany's strict control over its forests allowed for the ideal of German romantic forests, that were idolized and used in literature to show the beauty and magic of nature. Many fairy tales have been inspired by the German forests, such as works from Brothers Grimm and Herder. Musicians such as Johannes Brahms, Richard Wagner, and Franz Schubert have also written works about German forests. Core ideas in these writings are love for Germany and the forests, unity, brooding, and magic. It can be said that these themes showed unity for Germany as a whole, while describing the forests similarly. The setting for these fairy tales are commonly the Black Forest of Germany, though the location of other fairy tales can vary in Germany's many forests.\n\nDuring Nazi regime, the idea of conversationism for German Forests coincided with the Nazi propaganda of an attack on liberal values. The Nazis used the phrase Naturgemasse Waldwirtschaft, \"forestry according to nature,\" to explain that in all forms, they (the Nazis) were merely restoring Germany back to its purest form. However, the core of the Nazi party was not particularly fond of forests in their natural state, as the forests expressed the diversity of Germany that the Nazi party was trying to eradicate. Many minorities would also hide in the forests for protection from those that did not know the land as well, and Hitler was known to call the forest a hiding place for weak ethnic groups. Regardless, Nazi regime tried to protect German forests and saw them as a symbol of nationalistic excellence in their purity. Any conservation efforts brought by the Nazis were undermined by military plans. \n\nIn Nazi ideology, the motif of the \"German Forest\" was comparable to their \"Blood and Soil\" slogan, a typical Germanic symbol. Propaganda, political symbolism and landscape planning drew on this as a central theme for the period after a German victory.\n\nAlbrecht Lehmann has postulated the continuity of a romantic forest idealism in the German peoples from the Romantic period to the 21st century that transcends class and generation. Examples of the intense and distinctive handling of the cultural forest include the discussion of environmental damage and forest dieback, and the forms of commemoration and mourning associated with woodland cemeteries and natural burials.\n\nPolls show a specifically German notion of equating forests and nature. The forest as an educational medium and healthy environment has, in the context of environmental education (see, forest education and forest kindergarten) has a particular significance in the German-speaking region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "888572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=888572", "title": "Golden age of arcade video games", "text": "Golden age of arcade video games\n\nThe golden age of arcade video games was the era when arcade video games entered pop culture and became a dominant cultural force. The exact time period is disputed, but key moments include the release of \"Space Invaders\" in 1978 and the vector-based \"Asteroids\" in 1979—moments made possible by the increase in power and decrease in cost of computing technology. This led to the rise of both video game arcades and video games in other media, such as songs, cartoons, and movies like 1982's \"TRON\". Other iconic games from this era include \"Pac-Man\", \"Defender\", \"Donkey Kong\", and \"Centipede\".\n\nAlthough the exact years differ, all timelines overlap in the early 1980s. Technology journalist Jason Whittaker, in \"The Cyberspace Handbook\", places the beginning of the golden age in 1978, with the release of \"Space Invaders\". Video game journalist Steven L. Kent, in his book \"The Ultimate History of Video Games\", places it at 1979 to 1983. The book pointed out that 1979 was the year that \"Space Invaders\" – which he credits for ushering in the golden age – was gaining considerable popularity in the United States, and the year that saw vector display technology, first seen in arcades in 1977 with \"Space Wars\", rise to prominence via Atari's \"Asteroids\". However, 1983 was the period that began \"a fairly steady decline\" in the coin-operated video game business and when many arcades started disappearing.\n\nThe History of Computing Project places the golden age of video games between 1971 and 1983, covering the \"mainstream appearance of video games as a consumer market\" and \"the rise of dedicated hardware systems and the origin of multi-game cartridge based systems\". 1971 was chosen as an earlier start date by the project for two reasons: the creator of \"Pong\" filed a pivotal patent regarding video game technology, and it was the release of the first arcade video game machine, \"Computer Space\".\n\nSean Newton, 3D arcade model builder and author of the book \"Bits, Sticks, and Buttons\" states that the defining transitional point which finally ended the first era of arcade gaming (known as the \"Black and White Age\") and subsequently ushered in the Golden Age was with the North American release of Midway's \"Space Invaders\". The game brought forth with it the power of the microprocessor, as well as a cult phenomenon impact which had only been felt up to that point by Atari's \"Pong\". Following \"Space Invaders\", Atari's \"Asteroids\" and Namco's \"Pac-Man\" further solidified the strength of the Golden Age.\n\nOther opinions place this period's beginning in the late 1970s, when color arcade games became more prevalent and video arcades themselves started appearing outside of their traditional bowling alley and bar locales, through to its ending in the mid-1980s. The golden age of arcade games largely coincided with, and partly fueled, the second generation of game consoles and the microcomputer revolution.\n\nThe golden age was a time of great technical and design creativity in arcade games. The era saw the rapid spread of video arcades across North America, Europe, and Asia. The number of video game arcades in North America, for example, more than doubled between 1980 and 1982; reaching a peak of 10,000 video game arcades across the region (compared to 4,000 as of 1998). Beginning with \"Space Invaders\", video arcade games also started to appear in supermarkets, restaurants, liquor stores, gas stations and many other retail establishments looking for extra income. Video game arcades at the time became as common as convenience stores, while arcade games like \"Pac-Man\" and \"Space Invaders\" would appear in most locations across the United States, including even funeral homes. The sales of arcade video game machines increased significantly during this period, from $50 million in 1978 to $900 million in 1981, with 500,000 arcade machines sold in the United States at prices ranging as high as $3000 in 1982 alone. By 1982, there were 24,000 full arcades, 400,000 arcade street locations and 1.5 million arcade machines active in North America. The market was very competitive; the average life span of an arcade game was four to six months. Some games like \"Robby Roto\" failed because they were too complex to learn quickly, and others like \"Star Fire\" because they were too unfamiliar to the audience. \"Qix\" was briefly very popular but, Taito's Keith Egging later said, \"too mystifying for gamers ... impossible to master and when the novelty wore off, the game faded\". At around this time, the home video game industry (second-generation video game consoles and early home computer games) emerged as \"an outgrowth of the widespread success of video arcades\" at the time.\n\nIn 1980, the U.S. arcade video game industry's revenue generated from quarters tripled to $2.8 billion. By 1981, the arcade video game industry in the United States was generating an annual revenue of over $5 billion with some estimates as high as $10.5 billion for all video games (arcade and home) in the U.S. that year, which would be three times the amount spent on movie tickets in 1981. The total revenue for the U.S. arcade video game industry in 1981 was estimated at more than $7 billion though some analysts estimated the real amount may have been much higher. By 1982, video games accounted for 87% of the $8.9 billion in commercial games sales in the United States. In 1982, the arcade video game industry's revenue in quarters was estimated at $8 billion surpassing the annual gross revenue of both pop music ($4 billion) and Hollywood films ($3 billion) combined that year. It also exceeded the revenues of all major sports combined at the time, earning three times the combined ticket and television revenues of Major League Baseball, basketball, and American football, as well as earning twice as much as all the casinos in Nevada combined. This was also more than twice as much revenue as the $3.8 billion generated by the home video game industry (during the second generation of consoles) that same year; both the arcade and home markets combined added up to a total revenue between $11.8 billion and $12.8 billion for the U.S. video game industry in 1982. In comparison, the U.S. video game industry in 2011 generated total revenues between $16.3 billion and $16.6 billion.\n\nPrior to the golden age, pinball machines were more popular than video games. The pinball industry reached a peak of 200,000 machine sales and $2.3 billion revenue in 1979, which had declined to 33,000 machines and $464 million in 1982. In comparison, the best-selling arcade games of the golden age, \"Space Invaders\" and \"Pac-Man\", had each sold over 360,000 and 400,000 cabinets, respectively, with each machine costing between $2000 and $3000 (specifically $2400 in \"Pac-Man's\" case). In addition, \"Space Invaders\" had grossed $2 billion in quarters by 1982, while \"Pac-Man\" had grossed over $1 billion by 1981 and $2.5 billion by the late 1990s. In 1982, \"Space Invaders\" was considered the highest-grossing entertainment product of its time, with comparisons made to the then highest-grossing film \"Star Wars\", which had grossed $486 million, while \"Pac-Man\" is today considered the highest-grossing arcade game of all time. Many other arcade games during the golden age also had hardware unit sales at least in the tens of thousands, including \"Ms. Pac-Man\" with over 115,000 units, \"Asteroids\" with 70,000, \"Donkey Kong\" with over 60,000, \"Defender\" with 55,000, \"Galaxian\" with 40,000, \"Donkey Kong Junior\" with 35,000, \"Mr. Do!\" with 30,000,\nand \"Tempest\" with 29,000 units. A number of arcade games also generated revenues (from quarters) in the hundreds of millions, including \"Defender\" with more than $100 million in addition to many more with revenues in the tens of millions, including \"Dragon's Lair\" with $48 million and \"Space Ace\" with $13 million.\n\nThe most successful arcade game companies of this era included Taito (which ushered in the golden age with the shooter game \"Space Invaders\" and produced other successful arcade action games such as \"Gun Fight\" and \"Jungle King\"), Namco (the Japanese company that created \"Galaxian\", \"Pac-Man\", \"Pole Position\" and \"Dig Dug\") and Atari (the company that introduced video games into arcades with \"Computer Space\" and \"Pong\", and later produced \"Asteroids\"). Other companies such as Sega (who later entered the home console market against its former arch rival, Nintendo), Nintendo (whose mascot, Mario, was introduced in 1981's \"Donkey Kong\" as \"Jumpman\"), Bally Midway Manufacturing Company (which was later purchased by Williams), Cinematronics, Konami, Centuri, Williams and SNK also gained popularity around this era.\n\nArcades catering to video games began to gain momentum in the late 1970s with games such as \"Space Invaders\" (1978), \"Asteroids\" (1979), and \"Galaxian\" (1979), and became widespread in 1980 with \"Pac-Man\", \"Missile Command\", \"Berzerk\", \"Defender\", and others. The central processing unit in these games allowed for more complexity than earlier discrete circuitry games such as Atari's \"Pong\" (1972). The arcade boom that began in the late 1970s is credited with establishing the basic techniques of interactive entertainment and for driving down hardware prices to the extent of allowing the PC to become a technological and economic reality.\n\nWhile color monitors had been used by several racing video games before (such as \"Indy 800\" and \"Speed Race Twin\"), it was during this period that RGB color graphics became widespread, following the release of \"Galaxian\" in 1979.\n\nThe Golden Age also saw developers experimenting with vector displays, which produced crisp lines that couldn't be duplicated by raster displays. A few of these vector games became great hits, such as 1979's \"Asteroids\", 1980's \"Battlezone\" and \"Tempest\" and 1983's \"Star Wars\" from Atari. However, vector technology fell out of favor with arcade game companies due to the high cost of repairing vector displays.\n\nSeveral developers at the time were also experimenting with pseudo-3D and stereoscopic 3D using 2D sprites on raster displays. In 1979, Nintendo's \"Radar Scope\" introduced a three-dimensional third-person perspective to the shoot 'em up genre, later imitated by shooters such as Konami's \"Juno First\" and Activision's \"Beamrider\" in 1983. In 1981, Sega's \"Turbo\" was the first racing game to feature a third-person rear view format, and use sprite scaling with full-colour graphics. Namco's \"Pole Position\" featured an improved rear-view racer format in 1982 that would remain the standard for the genre; the game provided a perspective view of the track, with its vanishing point swaying side to side as the player approaches corners, accurately simulating forward movement into the distance. That same year, Sega released \"Zaxxon\", which introduced the use of isometric graphics and shadows; and \"SubRoc-3D\", which introduced the use of stereoscopic 3D through a special eyepiece;\n\nThis period also saw significant advances in digital audio technology. \"Space Invaders\" in 1978 was the first game to use a continuous background soundtrack, with four simple chromatic descending bass notes repeating in a loop, though it was dynamic and changed pace during stages. \"Rally-X\" in 1980 was the first game to feature continuous background music, which was generated using a dedicated sound chip, a Namco 3-channel PSG. That same year saw the introduction of speech synthesis, which was first used in \"Stratovox\", released by Sun Electronics in 1980, followed soon after by Namco's \"King & Balloon\".\n\nDevelopers also experimented with laserdisc players for delivering full motion video based games with movie-quality animation. The first laserdisc video game to exploit this technology was 1983's \"Astron Belt\" from Sega, soon followed by \"Dragon's Lair\" from Cinematronics; the latter was a sensation when it was released (and, in fact, the laserdisc players in many machines broke due to overuse). While laserdisc games were usually either shooter games with full-motion video backdrops like \"Astron Belt\" or interactive movies like \"Dragon's Lair\", Data East's 1983 game \"Bega's Battle\" introduced a new form of video game storytelling: using brief full-motion video cutscenes to develop a story between the game's shooting stages, which would years later become the standard approach to video game storytelling. By the mid-1980s, the genre dwindled in popularity, as laserdiscs were losing out to the VHS format and the laserdisc games themselves were losing their novelty.\n\nWith the enormous success of the early games, dozens of developers jumped into the development and manufacturing of video arcade games. Some simply copied the \"invading alien hordes\" idea of \"Space Invaders\" and turned out successful imitators like Namco's \"Galaxian,\" \"Galaga,\" and \"Gaplus\", though they took the shoot 'em up genre further with new gameplay mechanics, more complex enemy patterns, and richer graphics. \"Galaxian\" introduced a \"risk-reward\" concept, while \"Galaga\" was one of the first games with a bonus stage. Sega's 1980 release \"Space Tactics\" was an early first-person space combat game with multi-directional scrolling as the player moved the cross-hairs on the screen.\n\nOthers tried new concepts and defined new genres. Rapidly evolving hardware allowed new kinds of games which allowed for different styles of gameplay. In 1980, Namco released \"Pac-Man\", which popularized the maze chase genre, and \"Rally-X\", which featured a radar tracking the player position on the map. Games such as the pioneering 1981 games \"Donkey Kong\" and \"Qix\" in 1981 introduced new types of games where skill and timing are more important than shooting as fast as possible, with Nintendo's \"Donkey Kong\" in particular setting the template for the platform game genre. Namco's \"Bosconian\" in 1981 introduced a free-roaming style of gameplay where the player's ship freely moves across open space, while also including a radar tracking player & enemy positions. \"Bega's Battle\" in 1983 introduced a new form of video game storytelling: using brief full-motion video cutscenes to develop a story between the game's shooting stages. Other examples of innovative games are Atari Games' \"Paperboy\" in 1984 where the goal is to successfully deliver newspapers to customers, and Namco's \"Phozon\" where the object is to duplicate a shape shown in the middle of the screen. The theme of Exidy's \"Venture\" is dungeon exploration and treasure-gathering. One innovative game, \"Q*Bert\", played upon the user's sense of depth perception to deliver a novel experience.\n\nSome games of this era were so popular that they entered popular culture. The first to do so was \"Space Invaders\". The game was so popular upon its release in 1978 that an urban legend blamed it for a national shortage of 100 yen coins in Japan, leading to a production increase of coins to meet demand for the game (although 100 yen coin production was lower in 1978 and 1979 than in previous or subsequent years, and the claim does not withstand logical scrutiny: arcade operators would have emptied out their machines and taken the money to the bank, thus keeping the coins in circulation). It would soon have a similar impact in North America, where it has appeared or is referenced in numerous facets of popular culture. Soon after the release of \"Space Invaders\", hundreds of favourable articles and stories about the emerging video game medium aired on television and were printed in newspapers and magazines. The Space Invaders Tournament held by Atari in 1980 was the first video game competition and attracted more than 10,000 participants, establishing video gaming as a mainstream hobby. By 1980, 86% of the 13–20 population in the United States had played arcade video games, and by 1981, there were more than 35 million gamers visiting video game arcades in the United States.\n\nThe game that most affected popular culture in North America was \"Pac-Man\". Its release in 1980 caused such a sensation that it initiated what is now referred to as \"Pac-Mania\" (which later became the title of the last coin-operated game in the series, released in 1987). Released by Namco, the game featured a yellow, circle-shaped creature trying to eat dots through a maze while avoiding pursuing enemies. Though no one could agree what the \"hero\" or enemies represented (they were variously referred to as ghosts, goblins or monsters), the game was extremely popular. The game spawned an animated television series, numerous clones, \"Pac-Man\"-branded foods, toys, and a hit pop song, \"Pac-Man Fever\". The game's popularity was such that President Ronald Reagan congratulated a player for setting a record score in \"Pac-Man\". \"Pac-Man\" was also responsible for expanding the arcade game market to involve large numbers of female audiences across all age groups. Though many popular games quickly entered the lexicon of popular culture, most have since left, and \"Pac-Man\" is unusual in remaining a recognized term in popular culture, along with \"Space Invaders\", \"Donkey Kong\", \"Mario\" and \"Q*bert\".\n\nIn 1983, an animated television series produced for Saturday mornings called Saturday Supercade featured video game characters from the era, such as Frogger, Donkey Kong, Q*bert, Donkey Kong Jr., Kangaroo, Space Ace, and Pitfall Harry.\n\nArcade games at the time affected on the music industry, revenues for which had declined by $400 million between 1978 and 1981 (from $4.1 billion to $3.7 billion), a decrease that was directly credited to the rise of arcade games at the time. Successful songs based on video games also began appearing. The pioneering electronic music band Yellow Magic Orchestra (YMO) sampled \"Space Invaders\" sounds in their 1978 self-titled album and the hit single \"Computer Game\" from the same album, the latter selling over 400,000 copies in the United States. In turn, YMO would have a major influence on much of the video game music produced during the 8-bit and 16-bit eras. Other pop songs based on \"Space Invaders\" soon followed, including \"Disco Space Invaders\" (1979) by Funny Stuff, \"Space Invaders\" (1980) by Playback, and the hit songs \"Space Invader\" (1980) by The Pretenders and \"Space Invaders\" (1980) by Uncle Vic. The game was also the basis for Player One's \"Space Invaders\" (1979), which in turn provided the bassline for Jesse Saunders' \"On and On\" (1984), the first Chicago house music track. The song \"Pac-Man Fever\" reached No. 9 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and sold over a million singles in 1982, while the album \"Pac-Man Fever\" sold over a million records, with both receiving Gold certifications. That same year, R. Cade and the Video Victims also produced an arcade-inspired album, \"Get Victimized\", featuring songs such as \"Donkey Kong\". In 1984, former YMO member Haruomi Hosono produced an album entirely from Namco arcade game samples entitled \"Video Game Music\", an early example of a chiptune record and the first video game music album. Arcade game sounds also had a strong influence on the hip hop, pop music (particularly synthpop) and electro music genres during the early 1980s. The booming success of video games at the time led to music magazine \"Billboard\" listing the 15 top-selling video games alongside their record charts by 1982. More than a decade later, the first electroclash record, I-F's \"Space Invaders Are Smoking Grass\" (1997), has been described as \"burbling electro in a vocodered homage to Atari-era hi-jinks\", particularly \"Space Invaders\" which it was named after.\n\nArcade games also influenced the film industry; beginning with \"Space Invaders\", arcade games began appearing at many movie theaters, while early films based on video games were also produced, most notably \"Tron\", which grossed over $33 million in 1982 which began the \"Tron\" franchise which included a video game adaptation that grossed more than the film. Other films based on video games included the 1983 films \"WarGames\" (where Matthew Broderick plays \"Galaga\" at an arcade), \"Nightmares\", and \"Joysticks\", the 1984 films \"The Last Starfighter\", as well as \"Cloak & Dagger\" (in which an Atari 5200 cartridge implausibly containing the eponymous arcade game becomes the film's \"MacGuffin\"). Arcades also appeared in many other films at the time, such as \"Dawn of the Dead\" (where they play \"Gun Fight\" and \"F-1\") in 1978, and \"Midnight Madness\" in 1980, \"Take This Job and Shove It\" and \"Puberty Blues\" in 1981, the 1982 releases \"Rocky III\", \"Fast Times At Ridgemont High\", \"Koyaanisqatsi\" and \"The Toy\", the 1983 releases \"Psycho II\", \"Spring Break\" and \"Never Say Never Again\", the 1984 releases \"Footloose\", \"The Karate Kid\" (where Elisabeth Shue plays \"Pac-Man\"), \"The Terminator\", \"Night of the Comet\" and \"The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension\", the 1985 releases \"The Goonies\",\"The Boys Next Door\" and \"Ferris Bueller's Day Off\" as well as \"Something Wild\", \"The Color of Money\" and \"Psycho III\" in 1986 (where Norman Bates stands next to a \"Berzerk\" cabinet).\n\nIn more recent years, there have been critically acclaimed documentaries based on the golden age of arcade games, such as \"\" (2007) and \"\" (2007). Since 2010, many arcade-related feature films have been released including \"Wreck It Ralph\" (2012), \"Pixels\" (2015) and \"Ready Player One\" (2018) which is based upon the novel by Ernest Cline and directed by Steven Spielberg.\n\nThe period saw the emergence of a gaming media, publications dedicated to video games, in the form of video game journalism and strategy guides. The enormous popularity of video arcade games led to the very first video game strategy guides; these guides (rare to find today) discussed in detail the patterns and strategies of each game, including variations, to a degree that few guides seen since can match. \"Turning the machine over\"—making the score counter overflow and reset to zero—was often the final challenge of a game for those who mastered it, and the last obstacle to getting the highest score.\n\nSome of these strategy guides sold hundreds of thousands of copies at prices ranging from $1.95 to $3.95 in 1982 (equivalent to between $ and $ in 2018). That year, Ken Uston's \"Mastering Pac-Man\" sold 750,000 copies, reaching No. 5 on B. Dalton's mass-market bestseller list, while Bantam's \"How To Master the Video Games\" sold 600,000 copies, appearing on \"The New York Times\" mass-market paperback list. By 1983, 1.7 million copies of \"Mastering Pac-Man\" had been printed.\n\nThe games below are some of the most popular and/or influential games of the era. \n\nFor arcade games, success was usually judged by either the number of arcade hardware units sold to operators, or the amount of revenue generated, from the number of coins (such as quarters or 100 yen coins) inserted into machines, and/or the hardware sales (with arcade hardware prices often ranging from $1000 to $4000). This list only includes arcade games that have sold more than 10,000 hardware units.\n\n\nThe golden age cooled around the mid-1980s as copies of popular games began to saturate the arcades. Arcade video game revenues in the United States had declined from $8 billion in 1981 and $7 billion in 1982 to $5 billion in 1983, reaching a low of $4 billion in 1986. Despite this, arcades would remain commonplace through to the early 1990s as there were still new genres being explored. In 1987, arcades experienced a short resurgence with \"Double Dragon\", which started the golden age of beat 'em up games, a genre that would peak in popularity with \"Final Fight\" two years later. In 1988, arcade game revenues in the United States rose back up to $6.4 billion, largely due to the rising popularity of violent action games in the beat 'em up and run and gun shooter genres. After yet another relative decline, U.S. arcade video game revenues had fallen to $2.1 billion by 1991, by which time the sales of arcade machines had declined, with 4000 unit sales being considered a hit at the time.\n\nOne of the causes of decline was new generations of personal computers and video game consoles that sapped interest from arcades. In the early 1990s, the Genesis (Mega Drive outside most of North America) and Super NES (the Super Famicom in Japan) greatly improved home play and some of their technology was even integrated into a few video arcade machines.\n\nThe Golden Age of Video Arcade Games spawned numerous cultural icons and even gave some companies their identity. Elements from games such as \"Space Invaders\", \"Pac-Man\", \"Donkey Kong\", \"Frogger\", and \"Centipede\" are still recognized in today's popular culture, and new entries in the franchises for some golden age games continued to be released decades later.\n\n\"Pac-Man\" and \"Dragon's Lair\" joined \"Pong\" for permanent display at the Smithsonian in Washington, D.C. for their cultural impact in the United States. No other video game has been inducted since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23648466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23648466", "title": "György Bónis", "text": "György Bónis\n\nGyörgy Bónis (January 5, 1914 – 1985) was a Hungarian jurist, researcher of Hungarian and European legal history.\n\nGyörgy Bónis was born in Budapest, Hungary. His family name is probably of Italian or French origin.\nHe completed his secondary education in Budapest, where he distinguished himself by winning 2 school award. He received his doctorate in jurisprudence in 1935 at the Pázmány Péter University. After receiving his doctoral degree, he spent a year in Great Britain, attending the lectures of Prof. Holdsworth and Plucknett.\nIn the fall of 1940 he was appointed as a professor in the field of \"the history of Hungarian law\" at the University of Kolozsvár (now Cluj-Napoca, in Romania). From the beginning of 1940 through 1947 he regularly held lectures in this field of specialization as well as in other program areas. In 1947 all his goods have been confiscated, and he was constrained to leave Romania by the Romanian communist authorities.\nIn 1947 became ordinary professor of Hungarian and European legal history at the University of Szeged.\nHis scholarly activities in Hungary resulted in the publication of nearly 300 studies and articles, including many of his own books and textbooks, scholarly studies and essays, and hundreds of periodical articles. In Hungary, his early works focused on penal law, and later his research activity led him to deal with the history of European ius commune in Hungary. In 1964 he published his comprehensive volume entitled Einflüsse des römischen Rechts in Ungarn. \nHe was visiting professor at the University of Cambridge, and member of the European Academy of History.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1034801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1034801", "title": "Henry Evans Maude", "text": "Henry Evans Maude\n\nHenry Evans Maude, OBE (1 October 1906 – 4 November 2006) was a British civil servant, historian and anthropologist. \n\nMaude was born in Bankipore, India. Educated at Highgate School from 1921-25, and Jesus College, Cambridge, Maude represented India at rifle-shooting in 1926. \n\nHe spent the years 1929-48 working as a civil servant and administrator in various Pacific Islands, in particular the British colony of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands, serving as Resident Commissioner from 1946-49. From 1948-57, he worked for the South Pacific Commission. \n\nFrom 1957-61, he was a Research Fellow at the Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies (RSPAS), which is part of the Australian National University in Canberra. He has published widely on aspects of Pacific Islands history, was a co-founder of the \"Journal of Pacific History\", and played an important role in establishing the Pacific Manuscripts Bureau.\n\nHe was the husband of Honor Courtney Maude (née King), a British-Australian authority on Oceanic string figures. She predeceased him, dying in 2001 in Canberra, aged 95. \n\nMaude died, aged 100, on 4 November 2006. The bulk of Maude's personal papers are held at the Barr Smith Library at the University of Adelaide, where an extensive set of pages devoted to his life and work can be found. He published the work of Sir Arthur Grimble.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35479610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35479610", "title": "Humor based on the September 11 attacks", "text": "Humor based on the September 11 attacks\n\nThe term 9/11 humor refers to jokes, whether in print or otherwise, based on the events of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in New York City, Virginia, and Pennsylvania.\n\nA number of scholars have studied the ways in which humor has been used to deal with the trauma of the event, including researcher Bill Ellis who found that jokes about the attacks originating in the USA the day afterwards, and Giselinde Kuipers found jokes on Dutch websites a day later. Kuipers had collected around 850 online jokes about 9/11, Osama Bin Laden, and the Afghanistan war by 2005. A notable early public attempt at 9/11 humor was done by Gilbert Gottfried just a few weeks after the attacks. During a comedy roast for Hugh Hefner at the Friars Club his 9/11 gag did not go over well with the crowd. One audience member at the club yelled out \"Too soon!\", which has since become a common response to jokes told in the immediate wake of tragedies. Gottfried then improvised and performed \"The Aristocrats\" routine, which released a great deal of tension and got rousing applause from the crowd.\n\nIn contrast to these early jokes about 9/11, late-night comedy shows and humorous publications did not appear for several weeks following the attacks. \"The Onion\", a satirical newspaper, cancelled the issue that had been scheduled to be released on September 11, 2001, and then returned to print with a special edition on September 26, 2001, which was devoted to the attacks. When the issue was released, the newspaper staff felt trepidation over making humor of such a tragic event. \"Everyone thought this would be our last issue in print,\" according to one staff writer. Despite this expectation, \"The Onion\" staff was quickly inundated with comments from readers, the vast majority of which were positive. However, they self-censored the article titled \"America Stronger Than Ever, Say Quadragon Officials.\"\n\nOne of the first 9/11 jokes made by a major American comedian in the UK was one told by Joan Rivers in London in 2002. The joke concerned the widows of fire fighters killed in the attacks, who Rivers said would be disappointed if their husbands had been found alive as they would be forced to return money they had received in compensation for their late spouses. The joke received condemnation from Harold Schaitberger, General President of the International Association of Fire Fighters.\n\n\"The Zero\" (2006) by Jess Walter is a post-911 satirical novel which features a New York City cop who shoots himself in the head and forgets it minutes later; his brain damage accounts for gaps in the story. The postmodern novel \"United States of Banana\" (2011) by Latin American author Giannina Braschi treats the entropic scenes of disaster on September 11 with black humor; the work describes New York City without the Twin Towers as a mouth unwilling to laugh because it is missing its two front teeth.\n\nIn 2016, comedian Billy Domineau uploaded a spec script to the Internet that he had written for \"Seinfeld\", which had aired its last episode in 1998, set in New York during the days after the attacks. He said later that it had started when he suggested \"a 9/11 episode of \"Seinfeld\"\" to a student as an example of \"an exercise in bad taste\" for a class. In his episode, the show's four main characters follow plotlines typical of them, all related to the attacks: Jerry becomes convinced that dust from the fallen towers is contaminating his food; Elaine, initially relieved that she won't have to break up with a boyfriend who worked at the Twin Towers, finds herself engaged to him when he unexpectedly survives; George basks in the glory after he is mistaken for a hero who rescued people, and Kramer attempts to recover the high-quality box cutter he loaned to Mohammed Atta. Popular minor characters, such as George's parents and Newman, also make appearances. \"[It] is indeed in bad taste, but it perfectly captures the self-obsessed way these characters would handle such a crisis,\" wrote \"The Guardian\".\n\nIn the \"Family Guy\" episode \"Back to the Pilot\", broadcast in November 2011, Brian and Stewie take a trip back in time during which Brian tips off his past self about 9/11 so that the old him can play hero and stop the terrorist attacks. This causes George W. Bush not to be re-elected, meaning a Second Civil War starts that leads to nuclear attacks on the Eastern Seaboard. A \"Time\" critic wrote of the episode, \"It sounds custom-made for a 'too soon' label, and it probably is. But avid \"Family Guy\" viewers live for \"too soon\" moments, no matter how sensitive the material.\" Other news organizations, including Aly Semigran of \"Entertainment Weekly\", also thought the show had gone too far with the reference. \"Deadline\" also commented that it \"squeaked past the Fox standards and practices department but is sure to raise as many eyebrows.\"\n\nHowever, perhaps reflecting how the acceptability to mainstream broadcasters of jokes referencing the 9/11 attacks has evolved only gradually, the DVD release of the earlier season five \"Family Guy\" episode \"Meet the Quagmires\", first broadcast in 2007, contained an extended scene which was removed from the episode as first broadcast. In the deleted scene, while traveling in time back to 1980s Quahog with Peter, Brian is confronted by the boyfriend of a woman he has been hitting on. In response to the boyfriend's challenge that he will fight Brian 'anywhere, any time', Brian invites the man to meet him \"On top of the World Trade Center, September 11th 2001 at 8am\", to which the boyfriend replies \"I will be there pal. You think I'll forget, but I won't!\". Additionally, the season seven episode \"Baby Not On Board\" features a scene in which the Griffin family visits Ground Zero, which Peter erroneously believes is \"where the first guy got AIDS.\" The season six episode \"Back to the Woods\" had Peter committing identity theft against a fictionalized James Woods, in retaliation of him doing the same and ruining his life. Peter appears on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\" proving he is Woods, promoting a comedy film based on the attacks.\n\nTo improve the chance of an Oscar award, a 9/11 joke was cut from Jean Dujardin's 2012 comedy film \"The Players\". The deleted scene featured a man seducing a woman in a New York apartment while an aircraft crashes into the World Trade Center in the background.\n\nIn the days before the 15th anniversary of the attacks in 2016, Miracle Mattress of San Antonio, Texas, briefly ran a commercial promoting a sale themed around the occasion. In it the daughter of the store's owner, in conversation with two employees who stood behind her, explained how the store was recalling the Twin Towers' collapse by selling all its inventory at the price of twin-sized mattresses for the weekend with the slogan \"Twin Towers, Twin Price\". At the end of the ad, she inadvertently pushed the two employees into twin piles of mattresses behind her, one of which was topped with the American flag; both collapsed. After briefly expressing shock and horror, she turned to the camera and said \"We'll never forget\".\n\nThe company soon pulled the ad, but copies were saved and uploaded to the Internet, where it and Miracle became the subject of intense and vociferous criticism. \"Entertainment Weekly\" said it \"might be most offensive commercial ever\". Its Yelp! and Facebook pages filled with disparaging comments and calls for boycotts; the store itself also received death threat. Owner Mike Bonnano, whose daughter had, as the chain's head of marketing, conceived the commercials and starred in it, apologized profusely but eventually decided to close the San Antonio location \"indefinitely\" pending disciplinary measures and donations to the 9/11 Foundation. Miracle Mattress reopened a few days later.\n\nMemes have become a rather popular way of distributing jokes about 9/11. A lot of these memes play with or make fun of 9/11 conspiracy theories such as \"Bush did 9/11\" or \"jet fuel can't melt steel beams.\" There have also been viral Vine videos that joke about fictional characters or other famous people doing the attacks. In these vines, the creators have a clip of them, or something they throw, or perhaps an aircraft they fly, and then cut to footage of the planes hitting the Twin Towers (mostly Flight 175 hitting the South Tower). This makes fun of that character or real person, saying \"(blank) did 9/11.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17176780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17176780", "title": "Israel Gutman", "text": "Israel Gutman\n\nIsrael Gutman (; 20 May 1923 – 1 October 2013) was a Polish-born Israeli historian and a survivor of the Holocaust.\n\nIsrael (Yisrael) Gutman was born in Warsaw, Second Polish Republic. After participating and being wounded in the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, he was deported to the Majdanek, Auschwitz and Mauthausen concentration camps. His parents and siblings died in the ghetto. In January 1945, he survived the death march from Auschwitz to Mauthausen, where he was liberated by U.S. forces. In the immediate post-war period, he joined the Jewish Brigade in Italy. In 1946, he immigrated to Mandate Palestine and joined Kibbutz Lehavot HaBashan, where he raised a family. He was a member of the kibbutz for 25 years. In 1961, he testified at the trial of Adolf Eichmann.\n\nGutman was a professor of history at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and deputy chairman of the International Auschwitz Council at Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation. He was the editor-in-chief of the \"Encyclopedia of the Holocaust\" and won the Yitzhak Sadeh Prize for Military Studies. At Yad Vashem, he headed the International Institute for Holocaust Research (1993–1996), served as Chief Historian (1996–2000) and was the Academic Advisor (from 2000). He was also an advisor to the Polish government on Jewish Affairs, Judaism and Holocaust Commemoration.\n\nHe died, aged 90, in Jerusalem, Israel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20342683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20342683", "title": "Johan Richard Danielson-Kalmari", "text": "Johan Richard Danielson-Kalmari\n\nJohan Richard (J.R.) Danielson-Kalmari (born \"Danielson\") (7 May 1853, in Hauho – 23 May 1933, in Helsinki) was a Finnish Senator, professor of history, State Councillor and one of the leaders of the Finnish Party. He was a Senator without portfolio in the Hjelt Senate from 1 August 1908 to 13 November 1909.\n\nDanielson was the son of chaplain Johan Philip Danielson and Amanda Lovisa Palander. He received his Abitur in 1870, gained his undergraduate degree in 1876, Licenciate in 1878 and his Ph.D in 1881 from the Imperial Alexander University in Helsinki. Danielson worked as the editor-in-chief of the periodical \"Valvoja\" from 1881 to 1884. He was a teacher of German and History in the university in 1878 and a Docent of General History during 1878–1880, and finally a professor from 1880 to 1913. Danielson was the Deputy Chancellor of the Imperial Alexander University during 1903–1906 and as the Chancellor of the University of Turku from 1921 to 1926\n\nDuring the Diet of 1882 Danielson worked as a secretary of the general education committee. He was chosen to the Diet as a member of the clergy estate. He later took part in the Diets of 1885, 1888, 1891, 1894, 1897, 1899, 1900, 1904 and 1905. Danielson was also briefly the chairman of the Finnish Party and represented the party in the Parliament from 1907 to 1916.\n\nDanielson married Jenny Matilda Heurlin in 1878.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "17444117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17444117", "title": "John Miles Foley", "text": "John Miles Foley\n\nJohn Miles Foley (January 22, 1947 – May 3, 2012) was a scholar of comparative oral tradition, particularly medieval and Old English literature, Homer and Serbian epic. He was the founder of the academic journal \"Oral Tradition\" and the Center for Studies in Oral Tradition at the University of Missouri, where he was Curators' Professor of Classical Studies and English and W. H. Byler Endowed Chair in the Humanities.\n\nFoley was born January 22, 1947, in Northampton, Massachusetts. He received his bachelor's degree at Colgate University in 1969, with majors in Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry. He completed his Masters in English Literature at the University of Massachusetts/Amherst in 1971 before completing the Ph.D. there in English and Comparative Literature (1974).\n\nFollowing his doctoral studies, Foley undertook fieldwork in Yugoslavia, confirming and extending prior research on living oral traditions by Milman Parry and Albert Lord. Based on this fieldwork, he continued the work of Francis P. Magoun in applying findings to other ethnolinguistic areas, as well as refining the theory of Oral-Formulaic Composition.\n\nAfter receiving his doctorate, Foley was assistant professor of English at Emory University until 1979, when he became associate professor at the University of Missouri, where he became regular professor in 1983 and stayed for the remainder of his career. Stints at other universities included an appointment as visiting professor at the University of Belgrade (1980) and visiting fellow at Harvard University (1976–1977, 1980–1981). He directed summer institutes for teachers for the National Endowment for the Humanities in 1987, 1989, 1991, 1992 and 1994.\n\nHe gave more than 250 invited lectures throughout the United States as well as in China, India, Russia, Mongolia, Japan, throughout Africa and Europe, and the United States.\n\nFoley was awarded grants and fellowships from the American Council of Learned Societies, the Guggenheim Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Fulbright Program, the Mellon Foundation, and other institutions, and was a fellow of the Finnish Folklore Society and the American Folklore Society.\n\nIn addition to providing the infrastructure for the comparatively new academic discipline of oral tradition by means of organizing conferences, producing the first bibliography, history and methodological guide and classroom textbook on the subject, his principal contributions involved the study of oral traditional performance in the field, and the application of those observations both to ancient texts and to the emerging secondary orality of the Internet.\n\nHe taught in the departments of Classical Studies (of which he was chair from 1996–1999), including both literature and language, English ( Anglo-Saxon language and Beowulf), and German and Russian Studies (Slavic languages and literature). Additionally, he had been an adjunct professor of anthropology since 1992.\n\nFoley founded the academic journal \"Oral Tradition\" in 1986, converting it to an open access publishing model in 2006.\nHe also founded and directed two academic centers, the Center for the Studies in Oral Tradition (launched in 1986) and the Center for eResearch (launched in 2005), which fosters cross-disciplinary internet-related research. He wrote or edited twenty books, and authored more than 160 scholarly articles. did a retrospective of his work in 2001. Additionally, he edited three series of books (\"Lord Studies in Oral Tradition\", published by Garland, \"Voices in Performance and Text\", by the University of Illinois Press, and \"Poetics of Orality and Literacy\", with the University of Notre Dame Press).\n\nFoley was most recently the Academic Director for the Oral Traditions program at the Graduate Institute.\n\nFoley retired from the University of Missouri in 2011, and died May 3, 2012 at the age of 65.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59075056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59075056", "title": "Liem Thian Joe", "text": "Liem Thian Joe\n\nLiem Thian Joe (1895–1962) was a late colonial Indonesian historian, newspaper editor, journalist and writer of \"Peranakan\" Chinese background. He is best known today for his seminal \"Riwajat Semarang, 1416–1931\", a historical overview of Semarang's Chinese community.\n\nBorn in 1895 in Parakan, Central Java, Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia), Liem Thian Joe received his earliest education at local Malay and Javanese schools. He subsequently attended a Hokkien school for ten years, then the Tiong Hoa Hak Tong in Ngadirejo, a school founded and run by the Confucian organization Tiong Hoa Hwee Koan.\n\nDespite his talent for writing, Liem initially worked as a trader in Ngadirejo. He began his writing career in the early 1920s as a journalist for \"Warna Warta\", a Semarang daily, and possibly also for the Batavia-based newspaper \"Perniagaan\". In the early 1930s, Liem joined the editorial board of another Semarang daily \"Djawa Tengah\" and its sister monthly \"Djawa Tengah Review\". Around the same time, Liem began - in 1938 - to edit yet another Semarang monthly, \"Mimbar Melajoe\", and also contributed to the prominent, Batavia-based weekly \"Sin Po\".\n\nLiem wrote \"Riwajat Semarang\" as a series of articles for \"Djawa Tengah Review\" from March 1931 until July 1933, before having it published in book form by Ho Kim Yoe in 1933. In the book, he coined the term \"Cabang Atas\", Malay for 'upper branch', to describe the \"baba bangsawan\" or the Chinese gentry of colonial Indonesia. \"Riwajat Semarang\", while focused on the history of Semarang's Chinese community, is also an invaluable source for the history of Central Java, particularly of Semarang, since Liem was still able to access the now lost archives of the \"Kong Koan\" (or the 'Chinese Council') of Semarang, the city's peak Chinese government body.\n\nHe is also the anonymous author of \"Boekoe Peringetan Tiong Hoa Siang Hwee 1907-1937\", an anniversary book of Semarang's Chinese Chamber of Commerce, published in 1937. Liem's other historical works include \"Pusaka Tionghoa\" of 1952 and the unpublished \"Riwajat Kian Gwan\", a history of Southeast Asia's largest conglomerate at the time, Kian Gwan, completed in 1959.\n\nLiem died in Semarang in February 1962.\n"}
{"id": "27645253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27645253", "title": "List of Fellows of the American Academy in Rome 1896–1970", "text": "List of Fellows of the American Academy in Rome 1896–1970\n\nList of Fellows of the American Academy in Rome 1896 – 1970 records those American artists and scholars who have been awarded the Rome Prize from 1896 to 1970.\n\nThe Rome Prize is a prestigious American award made annually by the American Academy in Rome since 1896, through a national competition. The categories for the prize have changed since the earliest years of the academy to the present.\n\n"}
{"id": "53152952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53152952", "title": "List of modern literature translated into dead languages", "text": "List of modern literature translated into dead languages\n\nThis is a list of translations of modern literature into dead languages. There is a separate list of such translations into Latin.\n\n"}
{"id": "49999901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49999901", "title": "List of most watched television interviews", "text": "List of most watched television interviews\n\nThe following content contains the tentative list of the most watched television interviews, with the corresponding peak viewership (or ratings share) records, the corresponding year of such broadcast, and the mentioned media research organizations tallying viewership records.\n\nOn February 10, 1993, Oprah Winfrey sat down with Michael Jackson for what would become the most-watched interview in television history. Jackson, an intensely private artist, had not given an interview in 14 years. The event was broadcast live from Jackson's Neverland Ranch and was watched by 90 million people worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "13665245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13665245", "title": "Manfred Kridl", "text": "Manfred Kridl\n\nManfred Kridl (1882–1957) was a Polish historian of literature.\n\nFrom 1932 Kridl taught at Wilno's Stefan Batory University, where he was an opponent of anti-semitic ghetto-bench policy. In 1940, during World War II, Kridl managed to escape from occupied Poland and settled in the United States. There he taught at Smith College, then at Columbia University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42373480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42373480", "title": "Mary Louise Gill", "text": "Mary Louise Gill\n\nMary Louise Gill is the David Benedict Professor of Classics and Philosophy at Brown University. Her work primarily focuses on Plato, Aristotle, and other (primarily Greek) ancient philosophers. She is the author of three books: \"Aristotle on Substance: The Paradox of Unity\" (1991,) \"Plato: Parmenides\" (1994,) and \"Philosophos: Plato’s Missing Dialogue\" (2012,) and has previously served as the Chair of the Faculty of Brown University, the Chair of Classics at the University of Pittsburgh, and on the editorial boards of numerous journals and books.\n\nGill received a bachelor's in religion in 1972 from Barnard College and a master's in religion from Columbia University in 1974. She received a second bachelor's from Cambridge University in classics and ancient philosophy in 1976, and a master's and doctorate in classics and ancient philosophy from Cambridge, both in 1981. Gill acted as an instructor of classics at the University of Pittsburgh from 1979 to 1981 before accepting an appointment as Assistant Professor of Classics and Philosophy there from 1981 to 1988. She was promoted to associate professor in 1988, full professor in 1994, and chaired the department from 1994 to 1997. Gill moved from Pittsburgh to Brown University as a professor of philosophy and classics in 2001, and was appointed the David Benedict Professor of Classics and Philosophy in 2013. In addition to her permanent appointments, Gill has also held a variety of visiting positions, including at Dartmouth College, Stanford University, UCLA, UC Davis, Harvard University, and the University of Paris.\n\nGill's work primarily focuses on ancient Greek philosophy, especially Plato and Aristotle. She has authored two books and one extensive introduction - \"Aristotle on Substance: The Paradox of Unity\" (1991), the long introduction to \"Plato: Parmenides\" (1994,) and \"Philosophos: Plato’s Missing Dialogue\" (2012.) \"Aristotle on Substance: The Paradox of Unity\" attempts to resolve the problem posed by the juxtaposition of Aristotle's requirement that primary substances have conceptual unity with the composite nature of living organisms.\n\nIn \"Philosophos: Plato’s Missing Dialogue\", Gill attempts to explain the absence of the \"Philosopher\", a dialogue which Plato repeatedly mentions in \"Theaetetus\", \"Sophist\", and \"Statesman\", but which no record exists of Plato actually having written. Previous suggestions for the absence of the \"Philosopher\" include a lack of time in Plato's later years, it forming one of Plato's unwritten doctrines, or it being unnecessary because the \"Sophist\" had included much of its intended content. Gill suggests a fourth alternative - that Plato intentionally avoided writing the \"Philosopher\" with the intent that someone who had read well \"Theaetetus\", \"Sophist\", and \"Statesman\" could use the pedagogical clues contained in those dialogues to reconstruct the missing \"Philosopher\" (while becoming philosophers themselves in the process.) Gill's explanation of the \"Philosopher\" has been criticized for relying excessively on the assumption that all of Plato's later philosophy was strongly Aristotelian, but her close analyses of many of the significant passages in the three dialogues her book covers has been lauded as well worthwhile.\n"}
{"id": "28202955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28202955", "title": "Museum of Warsaw", "text": "Museum of Warsaw\n\nMuseum of Warsaw () (in 1948–2014 \"Historical Museum of Warsaw\", ) is a museum in the Old Town Market Place in Warsaw, Poland. It was established in 1936.\n\nThe facility was established in 1936 as the Museum of Old Warsaw. It was then housed in three buildings purchased by the municipality in the market square. The museum, along with the collection, was destroyed during the Warsaw Uprising during World War II. After the war, the museum was reopened under its current name and buildings for it were rebuilt in the years 1948-1954 in the context of the unprecedented reconstruction of historic Warsaw.\n\nIn 2010-2012 the eleven houses of the museum were renovated with the help of Norwegian funding.\n\nIn April 2014 museum changed its name to \"Museum of Warsaw\".\n\nThe various collections in the fields of archeology, painting, graphics, iconography, sculpture, decorative arts, numismatics and architectural drawings, now exceed 250 000 objects. Until the start of the renovations in 2010 there was available exhibitions showing seven centuries of Warsaw history, from its foundation to the present day.\n\nIn addition to its exhibitions, the museum has a strong record of publishing (including a Clio Award in 2010 for its series of \"Library of Warsaw\"), as well as numerous publications on their own collections and the history of Warsaw. They organize lessons and competitions for schools and conferences and participate in significant events such as: a Night at the Museum, the Science Picnic of Polish Radio and the Copernicus Science Centre, the Festival of Science, and the University of the Third Age. It is also a co-producer of documentary films devoted to the capital.\n\nRevitalization of the museum was completed in 2012.\n\nThe Historical Museum of Warsaw has 9 branches:\n\n"}
{"id": "8415497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8415497", "title": "Nicolae Petrescu-Comnen", "text": "Nicolae Petrescu-Comnen\n\nNicolae Petrescu-Comnen (; Gallicized as Petresco-Comnène, Petrescu-Comnène or N. P. Comnène, born Nicolae Petrescu; August 24, 1881 – December 8, 1958) was a Romanian diplomat, politician and social scientist, who served as Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Miron Cristea cabinet (between May 1938 and January 31, 1939). He debuted in France as a public lecturer and author of several books on political history, then returned to Romania as a judge and member of the University of Bucharest faculty. Comnen spent most of World War I in Switzerland, earning respect at home and abroad for his arguments in favor of nationalism, his publicizing of the Greater Romanian cause, and especially for his support of the Romanian community in Dobruja. During the Paris Peace Conference, he was dispatched to Hungary, proposing political settlements that would have made the Treaty of Trianon more palatable to Hungarian conservatives. Also noted as an eccentric who published poetry, he was often ridiculed for his claim to a Byzantine aristocratic descent from the Komnenos.\n\nComnen returned to serve briefly in the Romanian Assembly of Deputies, during which time he became a prominent anti-socialist. He was a National Liberal and close to that party's leadership, before embarking on a full-time diplomatic career, originally as Romania's envoy to Switzerland and to the League of Nations (1923–1927). He had a steady climb during the early interwar, with alternating missions in Weimar Germany and at the Holy See. His activity centered on debilitating Hungarian irredentism, and, progressively, on the easing of tensions between Romania and the Soviet Union. As Romania's ambassador to Nazi Germany, Comnen preserved a neutralist line, recognizing Romania's dependence on German industry while seeking to expand cooperation with France and Britain.\n\nComnen was assigned to lead Foreign Affairs during the early stages of King Carol II's authoritarian regime. His ministerial term was highly turbulent, overlapping with the expansion of Nazi power, Western appeasement, and a sudden deterioration of Romanian–Soviet relations. Comnen recognized the \"Anschluss\", helped \"liquidate\" the Abyssinian question, and tried to obtain guarantees from Romania's hostile neighbors at Bled and Salonika. A full crisis followed the Munich Agreement, during which Comnen worked to preserve both a Czechoslovakian state and the Little Entente. He tacitly gave the Soviet Air Forces access to Romania's airspace, and refused to participate in a partition of Carpathian Ruthenia.\n\nComnen was ultimately deposed by Carol—allegedly, because he had questioned the king's rationale for repressing the rival Iron Guard—and replaced with Grigore Gafencu. Again dispatched to the Holy See, he was sacked by a Guardist government after Carol's downfall in 1940. He never returned home, but remained in Florence, a supporter of the Allies and agent of the Romanian National Committee. As such, Comnen worked with Gafencu in the diaspora movement against Communist Romania. Earning accolades for his new contributions as a humanitarian, he published works of recollections and studies in diplomatic history. In his last years before his death in Florence, he had turned to promoting a pan-European identity.\n\nNicolae Petrescu was born in Bucharest on August 24, 1884, the son of a public servant (or magistrate) and his schoolteacher wife. Baptized Romanian Orthodox, he was part-Greek: his maternal grandmother, Ecaterina, was the last descendant of the Greek family Comninò. Also through his mother, hailing from the Cernovodeanu clan, the future diplomat belonged to the boyar nobility, and was an uncle of the historian Dan Cernovodeanu. His collaborator and subordinate Noti Constantinide further argues that Petrescu was of Romany descent, \"a true, purebred, Gypsy\" and \"highly unusual character\". Having studied at the University of Bucharest and the University of Paris, he took a doctorate in Law and Political Science at the latter, and began his career as an Ilfov County judge in 1906. He worked as a lawyer from 1911 to 1916, while also teaching economics at Bucharest University. He was at the center of political life from his Paris years, when he joined the Romanian Students' Circle. He lectured with the latter at Voltaire Coffeehouse, appearing alongside some of the country's future statesmen and scholars: Nicolae Titulescu, Ion G. Duca, Dimitrie Drăghicescu, and Toma Dragu.\nDuring that period, he changed his surname to \"Petrescu-Comnen\", thus claiming lineage from the Komnenos family of Byzantine Emperors (he also claimed to be related to the Bonapartes). The change was made official by his father in 1903, and later backed by a questionable family tree and heraldry, but recognized during his induction into the Sacred Military Constantinian Order of Saint George. Petrescu's views on his family's heritage were a frequent topic of ridicule among foreign diplomats (puns on his name included the French-language \"Petrescu-Quand même\"—\"Petrescu-All the Same\", and the generic \"Nicolae Perhaps-Comnen\"). Historian Andrei Pippidi sees the Byzantine claim as entirely spurious, \"snobbish\", \"unjustly decreasing the value of [his] character.\" Genealogist Dumitru Năstase proposes that the Petrescus were in fact only attached to the village of Comeni, a name later corrupted into \"Comneni\", then \"Comnen\". The \"bewildering\" Byzantine pedigree was also ridiculed by the left-wing satirist Petre Pandrea, who noted that, beyond his \"princely obsession\", Comnen was a \"fundamentally decent man.\"\n\nComnen's early work included poetry: in July 1904, his patriotic ode to Iosif Vulcan was carried by the magazine \"Familia\". According to Constantinide, young Petrescu authored a volume of poems which he signed as \"Petrescu-D'Artagnan\". He is known to have published, as Petresco-Comnène, the collection \"Il était une fois\" (\"Once upon a Time\", 1904). Comprising Parnassian verse, it received a lukewarm review from the staff critic at \"Le Figaro\": \"the work of a real poet\", it nevertheless contained \"pages that are quite needlessly bizarre\". For a while, this aspect of his literary activity merged with his scholarly work. On June 4, 1905, \"Le Journal du Dimanche\" noted his \"strange conference\" about Albert Samain, which ended with readings from Samain's works by a group of actresses.\n\nComnen also contributed a study of early Romanian jurisprudence (1902), and a monograph on the history of the Jews in Romania (1905). The latter earned him the Romanian Academy's Ion Heliade Rădulescu award, and special praise from the scholar A. D. Xenopol. He continued in the fields of law and sociology, with a succession of tracts and lectures: \"Ziua de 8 ore de muncă\" (\"The 8-hour Day\", 1906), \"Accidente profesionale\" (\"Work-related Accidents\", 1907), \"Câteva considerațiuni asupra socialismului și asupra roadelor sale\" (\"Some Musings on Socialism and Its Results\", 1909), \"Studiu asupra intervențiunii statului între capital și muncă\" (\"A Review of State Intervention between Capital and Labor\", 1910). These contributions detail Comnen's take on the local labor movement, showing him as a social liberal who fully embraced unionization. \"Câteva considerațiuni\" was awarded another Academy prize, and again received a good review from Xenopol.\n\nAlthough Petrescu showed himself to be staunchly against Hungarian nationalism, his wife, Antoinette von Benedek, may have been of Hungarian origin—allegedly, he had her adopted by an impoverished count in Trieste, as a means for the family to inherit a formal title. Other sources simply list her as a Triestine Austrian. They were married on August 4, 1912, at the Russian Cathedral of Paris. The couple already had a son, Raymond-Alexis, born 1908, and a daughter, Elsa-Irène, born 1909. According to Pandrea, neither of the Comnen children shared their father's \"obsession\". He described both as \"my friends\", \"sensible, unpretentious kids\".\n\nPetrescu-Comnen's career took an upward turn after Romania entered World War I, initially as a noted campaigner for the cause of Greater Romania; he was also tasked with explaining Romania's capitulation. According to Duca, Comnen, \"whose precarious health had exiled to Switzerland\", matched and surpassed Drăghicescu's similar work in France. He displayed \"exquisite skills as a propagandist\". Initially, Comnen contributed to the cause from a Swiss sanitarium, where he was recovering, hoping to carry forward the work of his deceased friend, Aurel Popovici. With articles in \"Le Genevois\", and with tracts such as \"Notes sur la guerre roumaine\" (\"Notes on the Romanian War\"), he complained about the Entente Powers \"sacrificing Romania\" after the October Revolution. French scholar Marcel Emerit found his a biased, \"unilateral\", perspective, containing \"a lively condemnation\" of the Russian Republic. Comnen also contributed an ethnographic overview of Dobruja (\"La Dobrogea\"), just as the region was being absorbed into a Greater Bulgaria. Georges Lacour-Gayet, who presented the work at the Romanian Academy, noted that the \"savant work\" of \"truth and justice\", had exposed the practices of Bulgarization.\n\nComnen received international attention, as well as collaborations from Emil Isac, Constantin Flondor, and Ghiță Popp. He also approached the Czechoslovak National Council and established a working relationship with Edvard Beneš. Eventually settling with his family in Bern, but was delegated to Geneva by Prime Minister Ion I. C. Brătianu, and was later one of Romania's envoys to the Paris Peace Conference. While in Paris, he published the bilingual atlas \"Roumania through the Ages. La terre roumaine a travers les âges\". It was at this time that he became the target of criticism from the far left—communist writer Panait Istrati, who also resided in Switzerland, alleged that Brătianu's delegates Vasile Lucaciu and Petrescu-Comnen were demagogues, preparing the annexation of Transylvania to the \"satrap yoke\" of the Romanian Kingdom. Petrescu-Comnen's input was valued by the Transylvanian delegate, Alexandru Vaida-Voevod, who kept him as an adviser during meetings with Robert Lansing. By then, Comnen had befriended Lansing's nephew, Allen Dulles. \n\nAt this stage, the collapse of Austria-Hungary had ensured the union of Transylvania with Romania; it also sparked a Hungarian–Romanian War, in which Romania faced a Hungarian Soviet Republic. According to Comnen's own account, he met with a deputation of Hungarian conservatives and liberals, including Count Andrássy, Alftred Windisch-Grätz and Mihály Károlyi, who demanded that Romania back their anti-communist government, based in Szeged, and provide support to the \"White Guards\". In August 1919, Comnen was contacted by another delegation, representing the Hungarian Republic. Comprising István Bethlen, Miklós Bánffy, and Pál Teleki, it asked for Transylvania to be recognized as a federal entity of the Romanian state.\n\nIn September, the Artur Văitoianu cabinet, with support from Iuliu Maniu, sent Comnen on mission to Hungary, where he also ledd the Romanian press office. This experience, in the aftermath of the Soviet Republic, acquainted Petrescu with communism (as detailed by his memoir, published 1957). Residing at Hotel Gellért in Budapest, he left the city with the lifting of Romanian occupation in October 1919. As a hostile National Army moved in, he still expressed his belief that Hungary–Romania relations would be mended and preserved. At the time, he was secretly approached by Bánffy to discuss \"reconciliation between the Hungarian and Romanian peoples\". Comnen later claimed that he had also reached a friendly agreement with Count Andrássy and other Hungarian conservatives, but that this had been vetoed by Maniu. If accepted, the Hungarian proposal would have led to the establishment of a dual monarchy; Ferdinand I, King of the Romanians, would have also reigned as Ferdinand VI of Hungary.\n\nPetrescu-Comnen soon joined the National Liberal Party (PNL), and, in the November 1919 election, he won a Durostor County seat in the Assembly of Deputies. He had little connection with his constituency, but was selected by the local party chapter because of his good reputation as an advocate of Dobrujan Romanians. He only took his seat in 1920, when he returned from Paris, and was again reelected in March 1922); throughout these separate terms, he was active on Parliament's Foreign Policy Commission. Vaida-Voevod was Prime Minister of a coalition cabinet formed by the Romanian National Party, the Peasants' Party, and the Democratic Nationalists. Petrescu-Comnen spearheaded the PNL opposition, especially so during March 1920, when he filibustered against the appointment of Nicolae L. Lupu as Interior Minister. He was also noted for proposing legislation that made striking illegal, pressuring the Vaida-Voevod cabinet to look into allegations of Bolshevik influence inside the Socialist Party of Romania. Despite PNL protests and support from the far-right National-Christian Defense League, Petrescu's law was not passed. A disappointed Vaida-Voevod claimed that, with his new career in Parliament, Petrescu had \"sacrificed himself\" to Brătianu's \"politicking\".\n\nStill active in diplomacy, Petrescu-Comnen had enjoyed a friendly rapport with the Polish Republic and, in 1920, had played a role in negotiating the Polish-Romanian Alliance. From 1922 to 1927, he was also a perennial Romanian delegate to the International Labour Organization (ILO). On July 10, 1923, he was named ambassador to Bern, and, in August of that year, also became delegate to the League of Nations; according to Constantinide, he owed this appointment to his political connections. He followed with concern the Locarno Treaties, which signaled a normalization of relations with the Weimar Republic, and as such the ominous rise of a new Germany. He wanted Romania to align herself with the anti-League Kingdom of Italy as a safeguard, personally befriending Benito Mussolini and Dino Grandi during ILO meetings. He worked with representatives of both Poland and Lithuania against a hostile Soviet Union, which they viewed as a rogue state. When the latter would not adhere to the Convention for the Control of the Trade in Arms and Ammunition, Comnen, Kazimierz Sosnkowski and Dovas Zaunius introduced their own opt-out objections to the Convention.\n\nAlongside Nicolae Titulescu, who took over his seat at the League of Nations, Comnen worked to convince the Entente that Greater Romania was respecting her ethnic minorities. One effort, which also involved Constantin Angelescu and Alexandru C. Constantinescu, involved a defense of Romania's educational programs, confronting propaganda by Albert Apponyi and the \"Hungarian bishops\". Titulescu and Comnen made a poor impression with British diplomats by producing blunt threats, such as announcing that Romania would individually sue all Hungarian colonists still present in the Banat. However, they convinced the Norwegian inspector Erik Colban that they were acting in good faith. Comnen also called for a negative campaign against the Magyar Party, once the latter had appealed to the League. \n\nAware of the issues faced by Romanian Hungarians, Jews and other communities, Comnen showed his concern about what this could effect for Greater Romania's image abroad. In 1924, reporting from the League of Nations, he complained that the new Kingdom of Hungary had a tactical advantage: \"it is confident that our situation inside the European concert of nations is shakier than that of Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia, that the situation of minorities is in reality less good than elsewhere, and, finally, that an unfavorable current can be easily determined against us with support from Russia, Jews, Catholics and Protestants the world over\". In 1924 and again in 1925, he welcomed in Geneva the Romanian politico Nicolae Iorga, who lectured to an international public about Balkan topics and \"imperialism in the Orient\".\n\nEarly in 1926, a new National Liberal cabinet proposed Petrescu-Comnen for the post of Ambassador to the United States. He adamantly refused, noting that America was \"radically incompatible\" with his character; he asked instead to be moved to Rome. In the end, he was dispatched to Berlin, which was considered a very difficult mission, suited for his talents. He served there between February 9, 1927 and May 1937, interrupted by a mandate to the Holy See (January 1930 – May 1932). In 1929, Comnen also joined the faculty of The Hague Academy of International Law.\n\nHis main contribution during the Weimar period was a German–Romanian Chamber of Commerce. Entirely his \"brainchild\", it was established in November 1929 with funds pooled by Danatbank, Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank, Krupp, and Otto Wolff. As a partisan of Titulescu's policies, Comnen was in favor of normalizing Romanian–Soviet relations, attempting to settle the issue of Bessarabia. As early as 1927, he approached Maxim Litvinov, a Soviet diplomat who served as Foreign Minister. Despite harsh criticism at home over speculations that Romania was dropping her guard, this helped bring about a period of communication between the government of Romania and the Soviets. He also reported that, with backing from Gustav Stresemann, he could solve another major dispute, surrounding the Romanian Treasure, but that his government overseers never let him.\n\nComnen's stint in Vatican City was prompted by the government reshuffle ordered by Prime Minister Maniu, and disappointed Petrescu-Comnen: he was negotiating an economic treaty with Germany and, moreover, preferred the post of ambassador to Italy. While in Rome, he was primarily noted for protesting against the apparent rapprochement between the Holy See and Hungary, but also for using his position to guess at Mussolini's external policies. He was responsible for obtaining from Pope Pius XI a quick recognition of Carol II as King of the Romanians, following the latter's coup, and for ending a long-standing dispute surrounding the corporate status of Romanian Roman Catholic churches. \n\nComnen's contacts in Vatican City informed him of an imminent Soviet attack on Romania, which is supposedly why Maniu massively increased military spending. The latter part of his term coincided with Iorga's premiership: Petrescu-Comnen advised the cabinet not to engage in \"violent and hasty\" actions against the Hungarian Catholic clergy, while personally ensuring cooperation between the state and the Greek-Rite Catholics. According to Iorga, he was supporting the King and the government, including against the PNL, boasting that he had stopped a PNL propaganda campaign abroad. His dealings with the Holy See were opposed by rival Onisifor Ghibu, who claimed that Petrescu-Comnen was a disgrace to his office.\n\nEven from Italy, Petrescu-Comnen closely observed the Great Depression and the decline of the Weimar Republic. Already in 1931, while vacationing in Brittany, he had predicted that Germany would fall to communism. His return to Berlin was facilitated by Carol II, who complained that the outgoing ambassador, Gheorghe Tașcă, was \"nonexistent\". The establishment of a Nazi regime came as a surprise. Petrescu-Comnen was prudent in his contacts with the Nazis, and his diplomatic notes of the time were ambivalent. Former Prime Minister Iorga, who remained friends with Comnen, records that Comnen thought Adolf Hitler \"naive and sincere, still learning the ropes.\"\n\nDuring 1934, Comnen was hoping to drive a wedge between German re-armament and Hungarian irredentism, approaching various factions represented in the Hitler Cabinet. In May, he invited Ioan Lupaș of the Romanian Anti-Revisionist League to lecture in Berlin about minority religions in Romania. Later that year, he and consul Constantin Karadja obtained from Hermann Göring a guarantee that Germany would not go to war over Hungary—but this pledge was quickly dismissed by Konstantin von Neurath and Alfred Rosenberg. Rosenberg was persuaded that Comnen, a \"Titulescu representative\", was lying, and began maneuvering to have him recalled. Comnen's Russian policy was soon restored by the apparent upset in German–Soviet relations and the Franco-Soviet Treaty of Mutual Assistance. He preferred this realignment to the Nazi alternative: his notes of 1936 show him alarmed by the \"antisemitic objective\" of Nazism (accurately predicting a \"Kristallnacht\"), by the regime's public anti-Catholicism, and overall by the \"nebulous criteria of German law\". \n\nAlthough he viewed the Winter and Summer Olympics as propaganda, Comnen accepted the Olympics Cross, First Class from Hitler. Over the following months, the rise of the fascist Iron Guard and the problematic elections of December 1937 upset the liberal order in Romania. In the run-up to the elections, Comnen had sought to mitigate Germany's open support for the Iron Guard, offering its government a chance to apologize for Ambassador Fabricius' presence at the funerals of Ion Moța and Vasile Marin. This request was angrily rejected in Berlin, mainly because the ambassador \"had only attended a religious ceremony\". Eventually, Carol pleased Germany by handing government to Octavian Goga and his Nazi-oriented National Christian Party (PNC). Comnen confirmed to this standard, communicating in Berlin the guidelines of Romania's neutralist policy: preservation of Franco– and British–Romanian relations, full economic cooperation with Germany, and \"no hostile attitude toward Russia.\"\n\nComnen went on to serve as undersecretary of the Foreign Affairs Ministry, which was led by Gheorghe Tătărescu. His advancement was supposed to placate Germany, which had been unpleasantly surprised by the PNC's downfall; it was also greeted by the Italian ambassador, Ugo Sola. He was described in the \"Journal des Débats\" as primarily a Francophile, but continued to be seen by the \"Auswärtiges Amt\" as a friend of Germany in the cabinet, on par with Alexandru Averescu and Constantin Argetoianu. Upon his recall to Bucharest, Hitler showed his appreciation for the diplomat in a special letter to Carol II—this was a first in Romanian annals. Soon after taking office, Comnen, who was more probably a neutralist, presided upon the council of the Balkan Pact, and, in February 1938, drafted its Ankara resolution, condemning \"any interference in the internal politics\" of member states.\n\nDuring the early days of 1938, Comnen announced that he was no longer involved with the National Liberal Party, taking his distance from Tătărescu. Widely tipped to become the full minister, he took over on March 30, days after the \"Anschluss\" crisis. His term coincided with the major developments in Carol's feud with the Iron Guard; Prime Minister Miron Cristea served Carol's own authoritarian regime, which consolidated a single-party National Renaissance Front. One of Comnen's first actions was to inform the British Foreign Office and the French Foreign Ministry about Germany's economic tactics; he also advised Germany not to act against Czechoslovakia, or risk a \"world war\". Comnen also emphasized the importance of Franco–British–Romanian relations by elevating the ranks of his ambassadors in both countries, and by making Tătărescu his Paris envoy. However, Romania was facing international criticism over her disbanding of the Danube Commission and her introduction of antisemitic laws. Her relations with Britain were also strained by the appointment of Lord Halifax, a proponent of appeasement and thus \"great friend of Hitlerian Germany\", as Foreign Secretary.\n\nThe situation was complicated by a sudden worsening of relations with the Soviet Union, when the Soviet diplomat Fedor Butenko disappeared in Bucharest. Before the details of this escape emerged, the Soviet side was claiming that Butenko had been abducted or killed by a PNC militia, the \"Lăncieri\". There was a sudden worsening of Romanian–Soviet relations, almost to the brink of war. Eventually, the investigating team informed Comnen of the actual facts, namely that Butenko had defected of his own free will, to escape a likely execution in the Great Purge; this was later confirmed in a letter which Butenko addressed to the Romanian Foreign Ministry from his new home in Italy. Despite being targeted by Soviet officials, who alleged that he had a role in this affair, he did not speak publicly in support of Butenko.\n\nPetrescu-Comnen was subject to increasing pressures from the Germans to reorient his country's foreign policy towards the Tripartite Pact. Rosenberg called on Petrescu-Comnen to abandon Little Entente commitments to Czechoslovakia, as a prerequisite for good economic exchanges with Germany. The Romanian minister sought to counter such pressures by negotiating an economic treaty with Britain, which was still being discussed, then shelved, in August 1938. The relations were tested by the question of Romanian Jewish disenfranchisement, with Comnen refusing to accept British suggestions that the policy be reversed. Progressively, Romania was coming to terms with her economic dependency on Germany, with Comnen issuing statements that hinted to a change of priorities in foreign affairs. Romania was therefore quick in recognizing the \"Anschluss\" as \"unavoidable\" and \"unobjectionable\". His ministry still attempted to prioritize Romania's commitment to Czechoslovakia (tested by both Nazi and Polish demands, as well as by Czechoslovakia's friendship towards the Soviet state); it eventually witnessed the Munich Agreement, and, despite official protests, had to seek a new course in European politics.\n\nPetrescu-Comnen was reserved about the Soviets' intervention on Czechoslovakia's side; he insisted that Romanian cooperation with the Red Army would only come with a recognition of Bessarabia as Romanian territory. More specifically, Comnen and the rest of his government expected France to provide Romania with guarantees. Contacted by Maxim Litvinov and Kamil Krofta in September, he promised that he would obtain flyover rights for the Soviet Air Forces, but these were never approved by his government. In conversation with Georges Bonnet, he confessed his own fears, namely that Litvinov was preparing the invasion of Bessarabia; he also commented at length on Romania's unpreparedness for war. According to Comnen, Soviet aircraft could cross into Romania's airspace at will, if the Soviets so desired, since it could not ever be hit by Romanian flak guns; he also insisted that a Red Army presence in Romania would have been of no service to Czechoslovakia, since roads linking Bessarabia to Carpathian Ruthenia were few and poorly maintained. \n\nBy then, Romania's airspace was intensely used by Soviet aircraft. When pressed about this issue by Göring, as Germany's Air Minister, Comnen insisted that the planes could not be downed. In effect, with his revelations about the flak range, Comnen gave the Soviets a free pass—as noted by French diplomatic cables, he did not want terrestrial passage, but \"close[d] his eyes to overflights of [Romania's] territory.\" Air defense, Comnen promised, \"would take a few badly aimed potshots at Soviet planes, and that would be that.\" More officially, in September he also allowed the Czechoslovak Air Force to fly its newly purchased warplanes from Soviet bases, over Romania. Beneš and Heliodor Píka later testified that Comnen had respected his promises to Czechoslovakia. As argued by journalist Alexander Bregman and historian Anna M. Cienciala, this exposes as false the claims publicized by Soviet historiography, according to which Romania sabotaged the Czechoslovak–Soviet entente. The Soviets, they note, limited their involvement because they were unprepared for war with Germany. Nevertheless, as argued by historians such as Rebecca Haynes, Comnen himself never prepared for a Romanian military intervention in support of Czechoslovakia, except against an invasion by or from Hungary.\n\nIn May, at the height of the Munich crisis, Petrescu-Comnen surfaced as a spokesman for the Little Entente as a whole. He represented it at the League of Nations, where he recognized the Italian annexation of Ethiopia as irreversible. He \"took the initiative in liquidating the Ethiopian question\", then followed the Anglo–French attempt to restore relations with Italy: \"the Italian conquest would have to be acknowledged, unless [League members] were prepared to live forever in an unreal world.\" Comnen also hosted the Little Entente leaders at a summit in Sinaia, and agreed to negotiate a collective nonaggression pact with Hungary; he also empowered Ioannis Metaxas to approach the Kingdom of Bulgaria for similar talks. He managed to sign accords to that effect (the Bled and Salonika agreements), despite German pressures on Yugoslavia. Although celebrated in France as a major achievement for peace and stability, these arrangements were in fact \"very banal\", and Bled presented no guarantees for Czechoslovakia's survival. They were also notable for lifting the ban on Hungarian re-armament, which he advertised as a prelude to reaching \"good terms with Hungary.\" However, Comnen delayed the application of that clause to October, which reportedly caused Hungary's Forign Minister, Kálmán Kánya, to lose his temper on at least one occasion.\n\nComnen was highly critical of Poland's participation in the German occupation of Czechoslovakia, which upset his plans for resistance. Returning to Geneva as the Little Entente was falling apart, he managed to persuade Yugoslavia's Milan Stojadinović not to give up on the project. On September 23, they addressed Hungary an ultimatum, threatening war if she would invade Czechoslovakia; Stojadinović rescinded five days later. Comnen continued to press for Yugoslavia to maintain the Little Entente, while also urging Jan Syrový's government to reconcile with the Ruthenian autonomists and the Slovak People's Party. The same month, he also approached Litvinov, promising that Romania would play no part in \"anti-Soviet actions\", also renouncing the demand for territorial guarantees, and even proposing that the Red Army be allowed to cross into Carpathian Ruthenia by way of Cernăuți County. \n\nThe Polish-Romanian Alliance was also threatened by warm Hungary–Poland relations. Among the Polish diplomats, Count Leo Orlowski theorized that Romania should join the alliance with Hungary, \"a country of the future\", and abandon Czechoslovakia. At an October conference in Galați, Comnen tried to persuade Józef Beck, the Polish Foreign Minister, not to accept a Hungarian takeover in Ruthenia. He then refused Polish offers for Romania to annex parts of that region, in Northern Maramuresh. Confronted with Romania's argument that either Czechoslovak rule or an independent Carpatho-Ukraine were preferable to Hungarian irredentism, Beck became convinced that Comnen was a \"perfect imbecile\", describing him as such in his memoirs. Comnen obtained from him a promise that Poland would intervene to reduce Hungary's territorial demands, but Beck never acted on that pledge. For his part, Comenen continued to aggravate the Poles by stating his support for an independent Ukraine, which he argued would be a natural ally of Poland and Romania against both Germany and the Soviet Union.\n\nIn parallel, Petrescu-Comnen worked with George Oprescu and Marie of Romania, organizing the exhibit of German old master prints. Believing that France and Britain were not going to defend Romania, he ultimately took Romania closer to Germany and the Axis Powers. From October 1938, he tried to persuade Germany not to dismantle reduced Czechoslovakia, and especially not to allow Hungary to annex Ruthenia. Despite assurances that Germany would only let Hungary take Hungarian areas, the First Vienna Award produced a Hungarian Governorate of Subcarpathia, which isolated Romania's territory. This then opened the way for Hungarian demands in Transylvania. In November, Comnen suggested settling the Transylvanian issue through a population exchange with Hungary, noting that Romania's Hungarians were mostly town-dwellers. This proposal was rejected by demographer Béla Kenéz on the Hungarian side—he noted that it would have implied removing almost 2 million people to make room for the 16,000 Romanians in Hungary. Comnen also spearheaded a project to encourage the a mass emigration of Romanian Jews, a draft of which was presented by Wilhelm Filderman and accepted on behalf of government by Mihai Ralea.\n\nThe change of policy toward Germany incensed the underground democratic opposition, and especially Maniu's National Peasants' Party. It accused Carol of appeasement and called for a national unity cabinet to deal with the crisis. In that context, Comnen had a publicized meeting with three former Ministers of Foreign Affairs (Dimitrie I. Ghika, Victor Antonescu, Istrate Micescu), showing that they backed his German rapprochement. The effort proved largely futile: as Comnen himself noted, Hitler resented Carol for repressing the Iron Guard and murdering its leader, Corneliu Zelea Codreanu; reportedly, this implicit criticism of the regime brought his demotion, by Carol, on December 20. However, Yugoslav diplomat Kosta St. Pavlowitch recalls that Carol had the idea to replace Comnen with Grigore Gafencu, a journalist for \"Timpul\", when the three of them were in London; while there, Gafencu won the king's confidence. Before Gafencu took over, Comnen was informed that he would return as Romania's representative to the Holy See. According to Pavlowitch, he had overall proven himself \"a conscious bureaucrat and an astute diplomat, [...] but, as was reported, did not rise to the challenge of the events. [...] During the deepest of Europe's crises, [...] Romanian foreign politics had been entrusted to someone who had no means of influencing the events, and who looked on passively as the ground was slipping away from under his feet\".\nPetrescu-Comnen took up his new office in Rome on January 20, 1939. From his posting, he witnessed the revelations of a German–Soviet Pact, which, as he reported to Gafencu, placed Romania in imminent danger. He remained in Rome after the outbreak of World War II a week later. The German invasion of Poland convinced Comnen that there was \"no reasoning to be tried with the Germans\"—a pessimisitic note which contrasted Gafencu's attempts to reach a new understanding with the Axis. According to his own recollections, he was entrusted by Gafencu and Şükrü Saracoğlu with obtaining Italian backing for the Balkan Pact, which was to include a pacified Bulgaria; at the time, Italy was still \"non-belligerent\". Although Mussolini eventually backed Hitler, Comen still hoped to obtain Italian and papal support for Romania before and during the Second Vienna Award. By April 1940, he was allegedly contacted by Myron Charles Taylor, and through him informed US foreign policy.\n\nHungary's annexation of Northern Transylvania, preceded by the Soviet occupation of Bessarabia, signaled a regime change in Romania. In September 1940, King Carol was ousted and an Axis-aligned Iron Guard government took over in Bucharest; Petrescu-Comnen, identified as a pillar of the old system, was sacked within days. Effectively, his mission ended on November 15, 1940. Following the civil war of January 1941, which Petrescu-Comnen described as Romania's \"black days\", the Guardist regime was replaced, and Ion Antonescu governed alone. From his new home in Merano, Comnen petitioned the ministry, insisting that he could still prove useful in his dealings with the Holy See, and through it prevent the Magyarization of Northern Transylvania. He found a backer in the government secretary, Alexandru Cretzianu, but was denied full reemployment. He was ultimately pensioned on May 1, 1941.\n\nLike many other diplomats who favored the Allies, Comnen decided not to return home as Antonescu sealed Romania's alliance with the Axis. Instead, he was co-opted by Viorel Tilea on London's Romanian National Committee (RNC)—alongside Gafencu, Dimitrie Dimăncescu, and Ioan Pangal. Settled in Florence, he led an International Red Cross Committee, and founded an exile section of the Romanian Red Cross. In 1943, after the Allied invasion of Italy, he mediated between the two sides to preserve the city's art and architecture from destruction, and in return was awarded the title of honorary citizen of Florence. That year, he published in Geneva the book \"Anarchie, dictature ou l'organisation internationale\" (\"Anarchy, Dictatorship or International Organization\").\n\nChoosing to remain in exile to Italy after the Soviet occupation of Romania, Petrescu-Comnen spoke out against communization and lectured in particular against the Danubian Confederation project; nevertheless, he intervened to mitigate the effects of drought and famine in his native country. By 1947, he was also collecting and publishing in Florence his records of the war, and of his own part in it, as \"Preludi del grande dramma\" (\"Preludes of the Great Tragedy\"), followed in 1949 by the more detailed \"I Responsabili\" (\"The Culprits\"), at Mondadori. In exile, he resumed contacts with Carol, who stated his appreciation for the diplomat and described \"Preludi\" as the best analysis of Romania's plight in the late interwar. The books were also reviewed by the historian Carlile Aylmer Macartney, who also found \"Preludi\" to be the better work: in \"I Responsabili\", he argued, the \"butter is spread more thinly\", including \"a general account of European developments in which M. Comnène had himself no hand, and for which he uses sources which are generally available\". According to Macartney, the books show Comnen as \"well informed, intelligent, and right-minded\", his \"sketches of various personalities\" displaying \"elegance and \"esprit\".\"\n\nComnen's hope of returning to Romania was curbed by the establishment of a Communist regime. He joined Gafencu in cooperating with the European Movement International (also advancing a European federation in his various articles and books), while also maintaining links with the RNC, now an anti-communist organization, building bridges between the latter and the Holy See. In 1950, he intervened as a mediator Gafencu and the RNC leader, Nicolae Rădescu. The following year, Constantin Vișoianu nominated him as RNC representative to the Vatican, although he was eventually assigned, that same year, to represent the RNC in the Italian republic. \n\nComnen was also taking trips to Brazil, initially as a delegate of Florence city council. In September 1954, he was at Rio de Janeiro, lecturing at the Romanian House on issues of international diplomacy. He resumed his publishing in 1957, with the memoirs of his 1919 trip to Hungary (published by a Romanian group in Madrid) and the historical review \"Luci e ombre sull'Europa\" (\"Lights and Shadows over Europe\"). By then, his Bucharest townhouse, located within walking distance of Victory Square, had been confiscated by the communist regime together with his \"objets d'art\" and his antique book collection. His family was also exposed to persecution: nephew Dan Cernovodeanu was sent to a labor camp on the Danube–Black Sea Canal; while there, he conspired with fellow inmate Ion Mitucă. In 1955, the latter, who was planning an anti-communist insurgency, tried to defect and contact Comnen.\n\nThe former minister died in his adoptive Florence, without completing work on his final volume, a diplomatic history of Romania. In addition to receiving the Olympic Cross and the Order of Saint George knighthood, he had been a Grand Cross of the Order of the Star of Romania, a Grand Cross of the Order For Merit, an Officer of the Order of the Crown, a Commander of the Order of the Cross of Marie; a Grand Cross of the \"Pour le Mérite\", the German Eagle, the Saxe-Ernestine House Order, the Order of George I, the Order of the Crown of Italy, and the Order of the Yugoslav Crown; as well as Commander of the Order of the Redeemer and the \"Polonia Restituta\", an Officer of the Oak Crown, a Knight of the \"Ordre des Palmes Académiques\" and the House Order of Hohenzollern, and a recipient of Benemerenti medal. He was survived by daughter Elsa-Irène, known after marriage as Irene Bie, who lived in Maryhill, Washington and donated her collection of Romanian paintings to the local art gallery, named after her father; and by daughter-in-law Angela Comnène. The latter published in 1982 an English biography of Comnen, and did research into his genealogy.\n\nCommunist censorship meant that Comnen's contribution was unmentioned in Romania until the 1970s, when his work was briefly covered, with some excerpts, detailing his anti-Nazism, appearing in \"Magazin Istoric\" in the early 1980s; his memory was primarily maintained by his peers in Italy. Following the Romanian Revolution of 1989, he was again the subject of public scrutiny: his \"Notes sur la guerre roumaine\" was translated and published by Polirom in 1995; and his decorations, donated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by Angela Comnène, went on public display in 1998. In 2003, his documents relating to the Holy See were published as part of an Editura Enciclopedică series, with a preface by Jean-Claude Périsset. The Comnen house, heavily damaged during the 1977 Vrancea earthquake, was inscribed into the National Register of Historic Monuments in Romania. However, by 2011 it had fallen into disrepair and was threatened with demolition.\n"}
{"id": "53165534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53165534", "title": "Nikola Nedev", "text": "Nikola Nedev\n\nNikola Dimitrov Nedeva (1886–1970) was a Bulgarian Major general, politician and military historian. He was the Minister of Interior affairs and Public Health in the third and fourth cabinets of Georgi Kyoseivanov (November 1938 to February 1940).\n\nHis first cousins were Lieutenant General Nikola Mihov and Major General Ivan Ivanov - descendants of the great Mollov’s family. Nedev was a friend of Petar Danov (also known by the name Beinsa Douno, and often called Master by his followers) who was a Bulgarian philosopher and spiritual teacher of the Universal White Brotherhood. Nedev was a follower of the Danov's teachings.\n\nNikola Nedev was born on the 7 July 1886 (20 July 1886 - new style) in Veliko Tarnovo, Bulgaria into a family of intellectuals. After graduating from high school, he continued his education at the Higher Military School.\n\nOn the 15 August 1907 Cadet Nedev graduated with excellence from the artillery class of the Higher Military School. As Second Lieutenant he began his career as platoon commander of the 5th artillery regiment in Shoumen, and on 1 January 1908, Second Lieutenant Nedev was promoted to platoon commander of the Sofia fortress battalion.\n\nDuring his career as an officer, Nikola Nedev was promoted to the following ranks: Lieutenant, 4 September 1910, Captain 1 November 1913, Major 1 January 1918, Lieutenant Colonel 30 January 1923, Colonel 26 March 1928, and Major General 6 June 1935. In 1936 he retired from the army.\n\nIn 1911 Nedev was awarded an excellent mark in the entrance exam at the Higher Military Academy \"Еcole de guerre\" in Brussels, Belgium. During that time he served in the artillery arsenal and the coastguard. The same year, he married Tzvetanka Grozdanova (1892-1984). They had two children—daughter Rousska Nedev Koutzouglou (1915-2010), and son Dimitar Nedev (1916-1980).\n\nThe war began after the controversy between the allied Balkan countries Bulgaria, Serbia, Montenegro, Greece and the Ottoman Empire could not be resolved by political and diplomatic means. From 17 September 1912, the Bulgarian army mobilized about 600,000 people and 700 guns. The mobilized army of Serbia, Montenegro and Greece totaled 295,000 people and 648 guns. Many artists, sculptors, writers and actors joined the Bulgarian army as volunteers. Part of it was merged with 14,760 troops from Macedonia and Eastern Thrace.\n\nThe Balkan war began on 5 October 1912. Captain Nedev was the commander of the 3rd battery of slight siege department of the Sofia fortress battalion. This artillery regiment was part of the Second Bulgarian Army, which besieged Edirne fortress whose defender was the \"Feric\" (Iron) Mehmed Shukri Pasha.\n\nThe commanders of the Second Bulgarian Army– Lieutenant General Nikola Ivanov, Major General George Vazov, Colonel Nikola Zhekov, Major Ivan Valkov, and the commander of the First Bulgarian Army Lieutenant General Basil Koutinchev, considered that an open assault against Edirne would be the successful tactic. The chief commanders, General Mihail Savov, General Ivan Fichev, and General Radko Dimitriev, believed the town would be forced to surrender from the effects of the resulting famine. The Bulgarian and Serbian army, commanded by Major General Vladimir Vazov, carried out this tactic between 11–13 March 1913. Colonel Nedev was General Vazov’s adjutant. The tacti was successful and on the 13 March 1913 the Edirne fortress capitulated; Shukri Pasha was imprisoned. This was one of the happy and unique moment for Nikola Nedev and the Bulgarian soldiers during the Balkan war. There were many articles in the world press about the success of the Bulgarian army, and especially its military tactics.\n\nAfter the war Nedev returned to Brussels to continue his education. When the Great War began, he returned to Bulgaria and was chosen to be the battery commander in the Shumen fortress battalion. In the spring of 1915 he was appointed as vice chairman of the new Military Historical Commission to the Staff of the Army.\n\nWorld War I began in 1914 between the Entente (France, Great Britain, Russian Empire, Serbia), and the Triple Alliance (Germany, Austro-Hungary, Ottoman Empire) and from 14 October 1915, Bulgaria. The war ended on 11 November 1918 with the capitulation of the Triple Alliance. On the 23 September 1915 the mobilization in Bulgaria began. On 14 October 1915 Bulgaria declared war against Serbia. Bulgaria kept fighting with the French and English army in Macedonia throughout the entire war. The war between Bulgaria and the Romanian Kingdom and her ally the Russian Empire began on the 1 September 1916. Bulgaria surrendered on 29 September 1918. The Neuilly Peace Treaty was signed on the 27 November 1919, and ratified on the 9 August 1920. 105,000 Bulgarian soldiers were killed, 150,000 were wounded, and 60,000 were disabled. Financial and physical losses amounted to 7 billion leva, economic losses and debts equaled 100 billion leva.\n\nIn September 1915 Captain Nedev was appointed procurement officer on the staff of the 8th Division in Stara Zagora. During the war he served at the division's headquarters. In the battles for Tutrakan he was the battery commander. In July 1916 he was the commander of the new howitzer battery, part of the 2nd heavy artillery regiment, fighting in Dobrudja. In 1917 Captain Nedev was the operational head of section to the staff of the army. As adjutant in the 9th Pleven’s infantry division he fought at the military positions for Dojran until the end of the war in 1918.\n\nOn 16 June 1919 Major Nedev was appointed as vice-chairman of the historical department to the staff of the army. This post was very close to his calling; at this point he collected the historical material for the books he would later write.\n\nAt the beginning of 1920 Nedev was the cabinet’s delegated military representative to the Occupying Commission in Bulgaria. Its task was to control the provisions of the Neuilly Peace Treaty, defining the territory, borders, reparations, and demilitarization. The government chose Nedev for his reputation as a truly loyal, brave, military patriot, fluent French, Italian and German. Thanks to his tact and diplomatic skills, and granted favorable conditions, he managed to negotiate a small territorial benefit; the southern border was moved a few kilometers into Greece’s territory.\n\nIn 1922 Nedev along with those who had not graduated from the Higher Military Schools in Saint Petersburg defended his doctoral thesis and was declared graduated from the \"Ecole de guerre\". In the same year he was appointed to the headquarters of the army and lectured on military history in the Sofia Military School.\n\nBetween 25 August 1923 and 13 September 1924 Lieutenant Colonel Nedev was the commander of the 18th Infantry Battalion in Veliko Tarnovo. In September 1924 he was commander of the tactical training on the staff of the 1st Infantry Battalion in Sofia. and in 1927 he became chief of staff.\n\nFrom 1925 until 1928 Lieutenant Colonel Nedev was the head of the Military Intelligence in Bulgaria.\n\nWhile defending Dojran, Nedev came up with the idea to record the bravery of the Bulgarian soldiers of Pleven’s regiment. In 1921 he wrote the book \"The Dojran epic – 1915-1918\". It tells of the victory of Plevan's 9th infantry division, commanded by Major General Vladimir Vazov. The army fought on the southern front from 1915 to 1918 against French, English, Serbian, Russian and Greek soldiers. The book presents a number of battles, including that of 16 June 1917 between the 9th Pleven’s infantry division and the 22nd, 26th, and 30th English divisions. The English army advanced with 160 cannons, 11 mortars and 440 guns. Over the course of four days the British fired over 100,000 shells, but the results on their side were disappointing, keeping them from further advancement. The Bulgarian offence was so effective that the enemy’s army suffered heavy casualties.\n\nIn 1927 Nedev published his second book \"Bulgaria in the World War – 1915-1918\" a historical review, dedicated to \"those who would continue the deeds of the whole Bulgarian nation\". It book was reissued in 2001. In 1928 Nedev published the book \"The Liberation of Sofia\" a review of this unusual military operation in the winter of 1877.\n\nIn 1929 Nedev published his fourth book \"The Wars of Liberation – 1877-1878, 1885, 1912-1913, 1915-1918\", where he wrote a thorough review of the wars of the third Bulgarian Kingdom.\nIn 1930, Nedev was commander of the Juncer battalion of the Higher Military School. The same year he was nominated as military attache in Rome, Ankara and Athens (the headquarters were in Rome). He discovered that the Ottoman Empire had sold its barred record. Nedev knew that it contained very important documents about Bulgaria’s history. This archive was bought by the Bulgarian government following Nedev’s advice. Thus Levsky’s case (the most celebrated national hero) was brought back to Bulgaria.\n\nAfter his return from Rome in 1932 Nikola Nedev was appointed commander of the 14th Macedonian Infantry Regiment in Gorna Dzhumaya. In 1934 he was commander of the 8th Infantry Division in Stara Zagora. There, on 6 May 1936, he was promoted to the rank of major general. At the time in the 12th Infantry Regiment in Stara Zagora, forty young soldiers were accused of communist activity. The Judge Advocate demanded that they be sentenced to death. Nedev stood by his men and said that he as general, would die with his soldiers, showing the world that people could be sentenced to death for their beliefs. The punishment was cancelled.\n\nAt the end of 1935 General Nedev was commander of Pleven’s Garrison. He also led the 4th Military engineering group in Pleven. At the end of 1936 he retired from the army. He was appointed chairman of the Military History Commission, as well as chairman of the cycling Union. At this point he had a chance to collect documents for his future books.\n\nFrom 14 November 1938 Nedev was Minister of Interior Affairs and Public Health in the cabinet of Georgi Kyoseivanov. He held this office from 23 October 1939 until 15 October 1940.\n\nIn November 1936, Germany, Italy and Japan signed a treaty agreeing to a common foreign policy. On 11 March 1938 Germany occupied Austria. On 30 September 1939 Germany occupied Sudeteland,and six months later she invaded Czechoslovakia. In 1939 Italy occupied Albania. On 23 August the Ribentrop-Molotov Treaty was signed. Poland was divided between Germany and the USSR, and on the 1st of September WWII began. Bulgarian society was divided in two parts; those supporting Great Britain, France and USA, and those supporting Germany, Italy and Japan. The cabinet of Georgi Kyoseivanov remained neutral until 15 September. On 31 July 1938 Bulgaria signed the Balkan pact – its neighbors gave up the military restrictions of the Neuilly Treaty. Tsar Boris III disbanded Parliament.\n\nAt Hitler’s insistence, Bulgaria began its genocide of Jews in 1939. Nedev twice requested an audience with Tsar Boris III and insisted that no Jewish men who risked their lives for Bulgaria’s freedom be sentenced to death. Thanks to his efforts a sailing vessel transporting Jews was not sunk in the Black sea.\n\nNikola Nedev was procurator of the Takvorian Tobacco Company for a year from 1 July 1941.\n\nAfter World War II, the new political forces in Bulgaria determined Major General Nikola Nedev to be a patriot and a humanist who typified the feats of the Bulgarian army. Despite that assessment, the communist government arrested him in 1951. His family was not informed of his whereabouts for four months. Nedev was held in a concentration camp along with the members of Bulgaria’s intelligencia – politicians, senior members of the military, ministers, and intellectuals. In 1954 he was released after three years of hard labor and deprived of his title and pension. Nedev kept his dignity; he thanked God he was alive, and forgave the communists \"as they did not know what they had been doing\".\n\n- Erinnerungskreuz für die Unabhängigkeit Bulgariens - 1910\n\n- Order of Bravery IV grade, 1st Class - 1917\n\n- Order of Military Merit, II Grade\n\n- Order of St Alexander\n\n- Iron Cross, II Class - 1917\n\n- 1921 - \"The Dojran epic – 1915-1918\"\n\n- 1927 - \"Bulgaria in the World War – 1915-1918\"\n\n- 1928 - \"The Liberation of Sofia\"\n\n- 1929 - \"The Wars of Liberation – 1877-1878, 1885, 1912-1913, 1915-1918\"\n\n- Private archive of Nikola Nedev, Veliko Tarnovo\n\n- Memoir by Rousska Nikolova Nedeva-Koutzouglou - daughter of Nikola Nedev\n\n- Prof., Dr. Dimitar Kolev, memoir\n\n- Archives of the Ministry of Interior Affairs\n"}
{"id": "34836668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34836668", "title": "Oskar Skarsaune", "text": "Oskar Skarsaune\n\nOskar Skarsaune (Trondheim, 2 July 1946) is professor of church history at MF Norwegian School of Theology in Oslo.\n\nSkarsaune's major work on Justin Martyr, \"The Proof from Prophecy. A Study in Justin Martyr's Proof-Text Tradition: Text-Type, Provenance, Theological Profile\" is frequently cited. His study calls for a revision in views of accounts of Justin's conversion.\n\nSkarsaune is also editor of and contributor to \"The History of Jewish Believers in Jesus from Antiquity to the Present\", which includes his study of the Ebionites - whom Skarsaune argued made a central claim of the parentage of Joseph, and against the virgin birth of Jesus. Skarsaune has close ties to the Messianic Jewish community in Israel and invited their contribution to the project.\n"}
{"id": "737813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=737813", "title": "Otto E. Neugebauer", "text": "Otto E. Neugebauer\n\nOtto Eduard Neugebauer (May 26, 1899 – February 19, 1990) was an Austrian American mathematician and historian of science who became known for his research on the history of astronomy and the other exact sciences in antiquity and into the Middle Ages. By studying clay tablets, he discovered that the ancient Babylonians knew much more about mathematics and astronomy than had been previously realized. The National Academy of Sciences has called Neugebauer \"the most original and productive scholar of the history of the exact sciences, perhaps of the history of science, of our age.\"\n\nNeugebauer began as a mathematician, then turned to Egyptian and Babylonian mathematics, and then took up the history of mathematical astronomy. In a career of sixty-five years, he largely created our current understanding of mathematical astronomy from Babylon and Egypt, through Greco-Roman antiquity, to India, Islam, and Europe of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance. \n\nNeugebauer was born in Innsbruck, Austria. His father Rudolph Neugebauer was a railroad construction engineer and a collector and scholar of Oriental carpets. His parents died when he was quite young. During World War I, Neugebauer enlisted in the Austrian Army and served as an artillery lieutenant on the Italian front and then in an Italian prisoner-of-war camp alongside fellow-countryman Ludwig Wittgenstein. In 1919, he entered the University of Graz in electrical engineering and physics and, in 1921, transferred to the University of Munich. From 1922 to 1924, he studied mathematics at the University of Göttingen under Richard Courant, Edmund Landau, and Emmy Noether. During 1924–25, he was at the University of Copenhagen, where his interests changed to the history of Egyptian mathematics.\n\nHe returned to Göttingen and remained there until 1933. His thesis \"Die Grundlagen der ägyptischen Bruchrechnung\" (The Fundamentals of Egyptian Calculation with Fractions) (Springer, 1926) was a mathematical analysis of the table in the Rhind Papyrus. In 1927, he received his venia legendi for the history of mathematics and served as Privatdozent. His first paper on Babylonian mathematics, in 1927, was an account of the origin of the sexagesimal system.\n\nIn 1929, Neugebauer founded \"Quellen und Studien zur Geschichte der Mathematik, Astronomie und Physik\" (QS), a Springer series devoted to the history of the mathematical sciences, in which he published extended papers on Egyptian computational techniques in arithmetic and geometry, including the Moscow Papyrus, the most important text for geometry. Neugebauer had worked on the Moscow Papyrus in Leningrad in 1928.\n\nIn 1931, he founded the review journal Zentralblatt für Mathematik und ihre Grenzgebiete (Zbl), his most important contribution to modern mathematics. When Hitler became chancellor in 1933, Neugebauer was asked to sign an oath of loyalty to the new government, but he refused and was promptly suspended from employment. In 1934, he joined the University of Copenhagen as full professor of mathematics. In 1936, he published a paper on the method of dating and analyzing texts using diophantine equations. During 1935–37, he published a corpus of texts named \"Mathematische Keilschrift-Texte\" (MKT). MKT was a colossal work, in size, in detail, in depth, and its contents show that the riches of Babylonian mathematics far surpass anything one could imagine from a knowledge of Egyptian and Greek mathematics. He was an Invited Speaker of the ICM in 1928 in Bologna and a Plenary Speaker of the ICM in 1936 in Oslo.\n\nIn 1939, after the Zentralblatt was taken over by the Nazis, he moved to the United States, joined the mathematics department at Brown University, and founded Mathematical Reviews. He became an American citizen and remained at Brown for most of his career, founding the History of Mathematics Department there in 1947 and becoming University Professor. Jointly with the American Assyriologist Abraham Sachs, he published \"Mathematical Cuneiform Texts\" in 1945, and this has remained a standard English-language work on Babylonian mathematics. In 1967, he was awarded the Henry Norris Russell Lectureship by the American Astronomical Society. In 1977, he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences, and in 1979, he received the Award for Distinguished Service to Mathematics from the Mathematical Association of America. In 1984, he moved to the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, where he had been a member since 1950.\n\nNeugebauer was also interested in chronology. He was able to reconstruct the Alexandrian Christian calendar and its origin from the Alexandrian Jewish calendar as of about the 4th century, at least 200 years prior to any other source for either calendar. Thus, the Jewish calendar was derived by combining the 19-year cycle using the Alexandrian year with the seven-day week, and was then slightly modified by the Christians to prevent Easter from ever coinciding with Passover. The ecclesiastical calendar, considered by church historians to be highly scientific and deeply complex, turned out to be quite simple. In 1988, by studying a scrap of Greek papyrus, Neugebauer discovered the most important single piece of evidence to date for the extensive transmission of Babylonian astronomy to the Greeks and for the continuing use of Babylonian methods for 400 years even after Ptolemy wrote the Almagest. His last paper, “From Assyriology to Renaissance Art,” published in 1989, detailed the history of a single astronomical parameter, the mean length of the synodic month, from cuneiform tablets, to the papyrus fragment just mentioned, to the Jewish calendar, to an early 15th-century book of hours.\n\nIn 1986 Neugebauer was awarded the Balzan Prize \"for his fundamental research into the exact sciences in the ancient world, in particular, on ancient Mesopotamian, Egyptian and Greek astronomy, which has put our understanding of ancient science on a new footing and illuminated its transmission to the classical and medieval worlds. For his outstanding success in promoting interest and further research in the history of science\" (Motivation of the Balzan General Prize Committee). Neugebauer donated the prize money of 250,000 Swiss francs to the Institute for Advanced Study.\n\nThe noted physicist and astronomer Gerry Neugebauer at Caltech was his son.\n\nIn 1936, he gave a plenary lecture at the International Congress of Mathematicians in Oslo. This was about pre-Greek mathematics and its position relative to the Greek.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9106948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9106948", "title": "Petras Klimas", "text": "Petras Klimas\n\nPetras Klimas (, February 23, 1891 - January 16, 1969) was a Lithuanian diplomat, author, historian, and one of the twenty signatories of the Act of Independence of Lithuania.\n\nKlimas attended law school at the University of Moscow. After graduating, he returned to Vilnius and served on the Lithuanian Central Relief Committee. He was elected to the Council of Lithuania in 1917, and signed the Act of Independence in 1918. Klimas went on to serve as the Lithuanian diplomatic envoy to France, Belgium, Spain, Portugal, and Luxembourg.\n\nDuring the Interwar period Klimas published a number of scholarly works in Lithuanian and German language, including \"Russisch Litauen\" (Russian Lithuania), a study of Russian rule of Lithuania from 1795–1915; \"Der Werdegang des litauischen Staates\" (The Development of the Lithuanian State), describing the emergence of the Lithuanian state from 1915–1918; and \"Lietuvos žemės valdymo istorija\" (History of land ownership in Lithuania).\n\nWhile he was serving on a diplomatic mission to Paris in 1940, the Lithuanian Legation was turned over to the Soviet Union. The Nazi occupational authorities in France arrested him in 1942, and he was sent to a concentration camp until 1943. He was released for a short while and returned to Lithuania, but was re-arrested in 1944 during the second Soviet occupation of Lithuania. This time he was sent to a concentration camp in Siberia and spent ten years there. His health was permanently impaired until his death in 1969. He was buried in Petrašiūnai Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "43964576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43964576", "title": "Ralaghan Man", "text": "Ralaghan Man\n\nRalaghan Man is an anthropomorphic, carved wooden figure found in the bog of Ralaghan, County Cavan, Ireland, which dates back to the late bronze age. As of 2016, it was held in the collections of the National Museum of Ireland.\n\nAdolf Mahr, keeper of Irish Antiquities in the National Museum in Dublin wrote in 1930; \"The figure was found, while cutting turf, under 3 to 4 feet of peat...It is made of yew, its height being 3 feet, 8 and five eighths inches\". It was found in Ralaghan bog, which has since been drained, on a boundary. It is therefore currently regarded as a boundary marker, though it has also been referred to as a votive offering.\n\nAlthough covered in cracks, the figure has strongly incised facial features. The left eye is slightly higher than the right, with the nose off-centre and possible damage to the left of the face. The pubic area features a gouged out hole (initially reported as drilled) with some theorising that the figure was female (drawing associations with other figurative female representations, such as stone sheela na gig carvings). Some other theories identify the figure as male, suggesting that the hole may have been used to hold a 'carved phallus' (since lost).\n\nAs of 2016, Ralaghan man was displayed as part of the Kingship and Sacrifice exhibition at the National Museum of Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "5177183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5177183", "title": "Raymond Beazley", "text": "Raymond Beazley\n\nSir Charles Raymond Beazley (1868–1955) was a British historian. He was Professor of History at the University of Birmingham from 1909-1933.\n\nHe was educated at St Paul's School, King's College London and Balliol College, Oxford. His academic career was as a Fellow of Merton College, Oxford, until his chair at Birmingham.\n\nAssociated with a pro-German tendency within the British political and intellectual establishment in the inter-war years, Beazley was a regular contributor to the \"Anglo-German Review\", established in 1936. He subsequently sat on the National Council of the Link, a pro-German organisation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1793017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1793017", "title": "Reception theory", "text": "Reception theory\n\nReception theory is a version of reader response literary theory that emphasizes each particular reader's reception or interpretation in making meaning from a literary text. Reception theory is generally referred to as audience reception in the analysis of communications models. In literary studies, reception theory originated from the work of Hans-Robert Jauss in the late 1960s, and the most influential work was produced during the 1970s and early 1980s in Germany and the US (Fortier 132), with some notable work done in other Western European countries. A form of reception theory has also been applied to the study of historiography.\n\nThe cultural theorist Stuart Hall was one of the main proponents of reception theory, first developed in his 1973 essay 'Encoding and Decoding in the Television Discourse'. His approach, called the encoding/decoding model of communication, is a form of textual analysis that focuses on the scope of \"negotiation\" and \"opposition\" by the audience. This means that a \"text\"—be it a book, movie, or other creative work—is not simply passively accepted by the audience, but that the reader/viewer interprets the meanings of the text based on her or his individual cultural background and life experiences. In essence, the meaning of a text is not inherent within the text itself, but is created within the relationship between the text and the reader. \n\nHall also developed a theory of encoding and decoding, Hall's theory, which focuses on the communication processes at play in texts that are in televisual form. \n\nReception theory has since been extended to the spectators of performative events, focusing predominantly on the theatre. Susan Bennett is often credited with beginning this discourse. Reception theory has also been applied to the history and analysis of landscapes, through the work of the landscape historian John Dixon Hunt, as Hunt recognized that the survival of gardens and landscapes is largely related to their public reception.\n\nA basic acceptance of the meaning of a specific text tends to occur when a group of readers have a shared cultural background and interpret the text in similar ways. It is likely that the less shared heritage a reader has with the artist, the less he or she will be able to recognise the artist's intended meaning, and it follows that if two readers have vastly different cultural and personal experiences, their reading of a text will vary greatly. Umberto Eco coined the term aberrant decoding to describe the case when the reader's interpretation differs from what the artist intended.\n\nIn literature, the interaction between text and reader occurs within a framework that controls and limits the interaction, through genre, tone, structure, and the social conditions of the reader and author, whereas in landscapes the interaction occurs through movement and viewing, framed by typology instead of genre and tone. Instead of an \"implied reader\", reception theory of landscapes assumes an \"implied visitor\", who is an abstracted concatenation of responses of many visitors at different times. \n\nThe theory recognizes that there is no single reading of a landscape that fulfills its entire potential, and that it is important to examine the motives of visitors and the factors influencing their visits (whether they read guidebooks about the place before visiting, or had strong feelings about the place or the designer, for instance). \n\nOne key difference between reception theory in literature and reception theory in landscape architecture is that while literary works are accessible only to the imagination, physical landscapes are accessible to the senses as well as to the imagination.\n\nReception theoretical analysis of architecture differs from typical writing on the history and analysis of landscapes, which tends to focus on the intentions of the designers, the conditions leading to the creation of the design, and the building process. Reception theory also tends to de-emphasize commonly used terms of description like 'formal' and 'picturesque', unless those terms were known to have meaning to landscape visitors themselves.\n\nAccording to Harold Marcuse, reception history is \"the history of the meanings that have been imputed to historical events. It traces the different ways in which participants, observers, historians and other retrospective interpreters have attempted to make sense of events both as they unfolded and over time since then, to make those events meaningful for the present in which they lived and live.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38906234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38906234", "title": "Robin Jeffrey", "text": "Robin Jeffrey\n\nRobin Bannerman Jeffrey is a Canadian-born professor. His primary research interest is the modern history and politics of India, especially with reference the northern area of Punjab and Kerala in the south. He is also interested in Indian media studies and development studies.\n\nRobin Jeffrey was born in Canada. He studied first at the University of Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, from where he graduated with a BA degree. He was awarded a D.Phil in modern Indian history by the University of Sussex, England, in 1973 and had previously worked as a school teacher in Chandigarh, India, for the Regional Institute of English and the Canadian University Service Overseas between 1967 and 1969. His first employment had been in 1963 as a sports writer for a small daily newspaper in Canada.\n\nJeffrey took up a position as a Research Fellow at the Australian National University upon completion of his doctorate. He has taught at that institution in Canberra during two different periods. He taught politics at La Trobe University, Melbourne, Australia, between 1979 and 2005, where he became a professor. In 2002, he was elected a Fellow of the Australian Academy of Social Sciences, having been previously elected a Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities in 1994.\n\n, Jeffrey is an Emeritus Professor of La Trobe University and the Australian National University. He chairs an advisory panel of the Australia India Institute within the University of Melbourne, Australia. He was been a visiting research professor at the Institute of South Asian Studies, based at the National University of Singapore, since 2009.\n\nIn 2011, when concentrating on media and development studies, Jeffrey said that \n\nJeffrey's published works include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19999619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19999619", "title": "Saar Ganor", "text": "Saar Ganor\n\nSaar Ganor is an Israeli archaeologist. He is the director, along with Yosef Garfinkel, of excavations at Khirbet Qeiyafa, thought to be Biblical Sha'arayim. He is inspector for the Israel Antiquities Authority and a lecturer at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.\n\nGanor noticed the unusual scale of the walls at Khirbet Qeiyafa while patrolling the area in 2003. Three years later he persuaded Garfinkel to take a look, and, after a preliminary dig in 2007, they began work in earnest in the summer of 2008. They have excavated only 4 percent of the six-acre settlement so far.\n\n"}
{"id": "2400008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2400008", "title": "Sam Harris", "text": "Sam Harris\n\nSamuel Benjamin Harris (born April 9, 1967) is an American author, philosopher, neuroscientist, critic of religion, blogger, public intellectual, and podcast host. His work touches on a wide range of topics, including rationality, ethics, free will, neuroscience, meditation, philosophy of mind, politics, Islamism, terrorism, and artificial intelligence. He is described as one of the \"Four Horsemen of Atheism,\" together with Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens, and Daniel Dennett.\n\nHarris's first book, \"The End of Faith\" (2004), won the PEN/Martha Albrand Award for First Nonfiction and remained on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list for 33 weeks. In \"The Moral Landscape\" (2010), he argues that science answers moral problems and can aid human well-being. He then published a longform essay \"Lying\" in 2011, the short book \"Free Will\" in 2012, \"\" in 2014, and, with British writer Maajid Nawaz, \"Islam and the Future of Tolerance: A Dialogue\" in 2015. Harris' work has been translated into over 20 languages. In September 2013, Harris began releasing the \"Waking Up\" podcast, in which he interviews guests, responds to critics, and discusses his views.\n\nHarris was born on April 9, 1967, in Los Angeles, the son of actor Berkeley Harris and TV producer Susan Harris (née Spivak), who created \"The Golden Girls\". His father came from a Quaker background and his mother is Jewish but is not practicing. He was raised by his mother following his parents' divorce when he was aged two. Harris has stated that his upbringing was entirely secular, and his parents rarely discussed religion, though it was always a subject that interested him. While a student at Stanford University, Harris experimented with MDMA, and has written and spoken about the insights he experienced under its influence.\n\nThough his original major was in English, he became interested in philosophical questions while at Stanford University after an experience with the empathogen–entactogen MDMA. The experience led him to be interested in the idea that he might be able to achieve spiritual insights without the use of drugs. Leaving Stanford in his second year, a quarter after his psychedelic experience, he went to India and Nepal, where he studied meditation with Buddhist and Hindu religious teachers, including Dilgo Khyentse. Eleven years later, in 1997, he returned to Stanford, completing a B.A. degree in philosophy in 2000. Harris began writing his first book, \"The End of Faith\", immediately after the September 11 attacks.\n\nHe received a Ph.D. degree in cognitive neuroscience in 2009 from the University of California, Los Angeles, using functional magnetic resonance imaging to conduct research into the neural basis of belief, disbelief, and uncertainty. His thesis was titled \"The moral landscape: How science could determine human values\", and his advisor was Mark S. Cohen.\n\nHarris states that religion contains bad ideas, calling it \"one of the most perverse misuses of intelligence we have ever devised\". He compares modern religious beliefs to the myths of the Ancient Greeks, which were once accepted as fact but which are obsolete today. In a January 2007 interview with PBS, Harris said, \"We don't have a word for not believing in Zeus, which is to say we are all atheists in respect to Zeus. And we don't have a word for not being an astrologer.\" He goes on to say that the term atheist will be retired only when \"we all just achieve a level of intellectual honesty where we are no longer going to pretend to be certain about things we are not certain about\".\n\nHarris advocates a benign, noncoercive, corrective form of intolerance, distinguishing it from historic religious persecution. He promotes a conversational intolerance, in which personal convictions are scaled against evidence, and where intellectual honesty is demanded equally in religious views and non-religious views. He also believes there is a need to counter inhibitions that prevent the open critique of religious ideas, beliefs, and practices under the auspices of \"tolerance\". He has stated that he has received death threats for some of his views on religion.\n\nHarris considers Islam to be \"especially belligerent and inimical to the norms of civil discourse\", relative to other world religions. He asserts that the \"dogmatic commitment to \"using\" violence to defend one’s faith, both from within and without\" to varying degrees, is a central Islamic doctrine that is found in few other religions to the same degree, and that \"this difference has consequences in the real world.\"\n\nIn 2006, after the \"Jyllands-Posten\" Muhammad cartoons controversy, Harris wrote, \"The idea that Islam is a 'peaceful religion hijacked by extremists' is a dangerous fantasy—and it is now a particularly dangerous fantasy for Muslims to indulge. It is not at all clear how we should proceed in our dialogue with the Muslim world, but deluding ourselves with euphemisms is not the answer. It now appears to be a truism in foreign policy circles that real reform in the Muslim world cannot be imposed from the outside. But it is important to recognize why this is so—it is so because the Muslim world is utterly deranged by its religious tribalism. In confronting the religious literalism and ignorance of the Muslim world, we must appreciate how terrifyingly isolated Muslims have become in intellectual terms.\" He states that his criticism of the religion is aimed not at Muslims as people, but at the doctrine of Islam.\n\nHarris wrote a response to controversy over his criticism of Islam, which also aired on a debate hosted by \"The Huffington Post\" on whether critics of Islam are unfairly labeled as bigots:\nCritics of the New Atheists such as Glenn Greenwald claim that \"[Harris] and others like him spout and promote Islamophobia under the guise of rational atheism.\" Harris, however, has criticized the way in which the term \"Islamophobia\" is commonly used. \"My criticism of Islam is a criticism of beliefs and their consequences,\" he wrote following a controversial clash with Ben Affleck in October 2014 on the show \"Real Time with Bill Maher\", \"but my fellow liberals reflexively view it as an expression of intolerance toward people.\" During an email exchange with Greenwald, Harris argued that \"Islamophobia is a term of propaganda designed to protect Islam from the forces of secularism by conflating all criticism of it with racism and xenophobia. And it is doing its job, because people like you have been taken in by it.\"\n\nIn response to the report published by the Irish government's Commission to Inquire into Child Abuse and other revelations of child abuse by Catholic priests, Harris wrote: \"The evidence suggests the misery of these children was facilitated and concealed by the hierarchy of the Catholic Church at every level, up to and including the prefrontal cortex of [Pope Benedict XVI].\" Harris has criticized the Catholic Church's structure and forced celibacy within its ranks for attracting pedophiles, and blames its opposition to the use of contraception for poverty, shorter lifespans, and the proliferation of HIV/AIDS. Furthermore, he asserts that the Catholic Church has spent \"two millennia demonizing human sexuality to a degree unmatched by any other institution, declaring the most basic, healthy, mature, and consensual behaviors taboo.\"\n\nIn \"The End of Faith\", Harris is critical of the Jewish faith and its followers:\n\nRegarding Israel and Judaism, Harris has said, \"I don't think Israel should exist as a Jewish state. I think it is obscene, irrational and unjustifiable to have a state organized around a religion. So I don't celebrate the idea that there's a Jewish homeland in the Middle East. I certainly don't support any Jewish claims to real estate based on the Bible. Though I just said that I don't think Israel should exist as a Jewish state, the justification for such a state is rather easy to find. We need look no further than the fact that the rest of the world has shown itself eager to murder the Jews at almost every opportunity. So, if there were going to be a state organized around protecting members of a single religion, it certainly should be a Jewish state. Now, friends of Israel might consider this a rather tepid defense, but it's the strongest one I've got. I think the idea of a religious state is ultimately untenable.\"\n\nHarris has been referred to, along with Daniel Dennett, Richard Dawkins, and Christopher Hitchens, as one of the \"new atheists\", but he considers the term \"atheist\" to be problematic. He said, \"while I am now one of the public voices of atheism, I never thought of myself as an atheist before being inducted to speak as one [...] I think that 'atheist' is a term that we do not need, in the same way that we don't need a word for someone who rejects astrology.\"\n\nHarris holds that there is \"nothing irrational about seeking the states of mind that lie at the core of many religions. Compassion, awe, devotion, and feelings of oneness are surely among the most valuable experiences a person can have.\"\n\nHarris rejects the dichotomy between religious spirituality on the one hand and scientific rationality on the other, and favors a middle path that preserves spirituality and science, but does not involve religion. He writes that spirituality should be understood in light of scientific disciplines like neuroscience and psychology. Science, he contends, can show how to maximize human well-being, but may fail to answer certain questions about the nature of being, answers to some of which he says are discoverable directly through our experience. His conception of spirituality does not involve a belief in God.\n\nIn \"\" (2014), Harris describes his experience with Dzogchen, a Tibetan Buddhist meditation practice, and recommends it to his readers. He writes that the purpose of spirituality (as he defines it – he concedes that the term's uses are diverse and sometimes indefensible) is to become aware that our sense of self is illusory, and says this realization brings both happiness and insight into the nature of consciousness. This process of realization, he argues, is based on experience and is not contingent on faith.\n\nIn his third book, \"The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human Values\", Harris says that \"Human well-being is not a random phenomenon. It depends on many factors—ranging from genetics and neurobiology to sociology and economics.\" Harris says that it is time to promote a scientific approach to normative morality, rejecting the idea that religion determines what is good. He believes that once scientists begin proposing moral norms in papers, supernatural moral systems will join \"astrology, witchcraft and Greek mythology on the scrapheap\".\n\nHarris says the idea of free will \"cannot be mapped on to any conceivable reality\" and is incoherent. According to Harris, science \"reveals you to be a biochemical puppet.\" People's thoughts and intentions, Harris says, \"emerge from background causes of which we are unaware and over which we exert no conscious control.\" Every choice we make is made as a result of preceding causes. These choices we make are determined by those causes, and are therefore not really choices at all. Nevertheless Harris maintains that the absence of free will does not erode the distinction between voluntary and involuntary actions, arguing that intentions tell a lot about the global attributes of a person's brain. Harris argues that this realization about the human mind does not undermine morality or diminish the importance of social and political freedom, but it can and should change the way we think about some of the most important questions in life.\n\nHarris describes himself as a liberal, and states that he supports raising taxes on the very wealthy, the decriminalizing of drugs and same-sex marriage. He was critical of the Bush administration's war in Iraq, fiscal policy, and treatment of science. However, he believes liberals dangerously downplay the threat posed by Islamic fundamentalism.\n\nDuring the 2016 United States presidential election, Harris supported Hillary Clinton in the Democratic Party presidential primaries against Bernie Sanders, and despite calling her \"a terribly flawed candidate for the presidency,\" he favored her in the general election and came out strongly in opposition to Donald Trump's candidacy.\n\nIn April 2017, Harris stirred considerable controversy by hosting the social scientist Charles Murray on his podcast, discussing topics including the heritability of IQ and race and intelligence. Harris stated the invitation was out of indignation at a violent protest against Murray at Middlebury College the month before and not out of particular interest in the material at hand. The podcast garnered significant criticism, for instance from \"Vox\" and \"Slate\", while Harris and Murray were defended in articles in publications such as \"Quillette\" and \"New York\".\n\nIn May 2018, Harris was profiled by Bari Weiss in the \"New York Times\" as part of the \"Intellectual Dark Web\" (a term coined semi-ironically by Eric Weinstein to refer to a particular group of academics and podcast hosts).\n\nHarris's writing focuses on neuroscience and criticism of religion, for which he is best known. He formerly blogged for the \"Washington Post\", the \"Huffington Post\", and \"Truthdig\". His articles have appeared in publications such as \"Newsweek\", \"The New York Times\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", the \"Boston Globe\", and the British national newspaper \"The Times\".\n\nHarris has made numerous TV and radio appearances, including on \"The O'Reilly Factor\", \"ABC News\", \"Tucker\", \"Book TV\", NPR, \"Real Time\", \"The Colbert Report\", and \"The Daily Show\". In 2005, Harris appeared in the documentary film \"The God Who Wasn't There\". Harris was a featured speaker at the 2006 conference \"\". He made two presentations and participated in the ensuing panel discussions. Harris has also appeared a number of times on the \"Point of Inquiry\" radio podcast. Harris engaged in a lengthy debate with Andrew Sullivan on the internet forum \"Beliefnet\". In April 2007, Harris debated with the evangelical pastor Rick Warren for \"Newsweek\" magazine. In April 2011, he debated William Lane Craig on whether there can be an objective morality without God. He currently serves on the Advisory Board of the Secular Coalition for America.\n\nIn September 2013, Harris began the \"Waking Up\" podcast, in which he discusses his views, responds to critics, and interviews guests. The podcasts, having started with very short posts, now vary in length anywhere from 1 hour to over 4 hours. The podcast has no regular release schedule, although the frequency of releases has increased over time. In 2017, the UK \"Business Insider\" included it in their list of \"8 podcasts that will change how you think about human behavior\" and \"PC Magazine\" included it in their list of \"Podcasts You Should Download Now\". The \"Waking Up\" podcast won the 2017 Webby Award for \"People's Voice\" in the category \"Science & Education\" under \"Podcasts & Digital Audio\".\n\nAfter discussing Peter Singer's drowning child thought experiment and the philosophy of effective altruism with William MacAskill on the podcast, Harris pledged to donate several thousand dollars of the revenue generated by each new podcast episode to effective charitable organizations.\n\nBuilding on his interests in belief and religion, Harris completed a PhD in cognitive neuroscience at UCLA. He used fMRI to explore whether the brain responses differ between sentences that subjects judged as true, false, or undecidable, across a wide range of categories including autobiographical, mathematical, geographical, religious, ethical, semantic, and factual statements. Harris and colleagues were also able to use artificial intelligence algorithms to predict whether an individual believed or disbelieved these statements using fMRI measurements, and this work was later replicated with EEG.\n\nIn another study, Harris and colleagues examined the neural basis of religious and non-religious belief using fMRI. Fifteen committed Christians and fifteen nonbelievers were scanned as they evaluated the truth and falsity of religious and nonreligious propositions. For both groups, statements of belief (sentences judged as either true or false) were associated with increased activation of ventromedial prefrontal cortex, a region of the brain involved in emotional judgment, processing uncertainty, assessing rewards and thinking about oneself. A \"comparison of all religious trials to all nonreligious trials produced a wide range of signal differences throughout the brain,\" and the processing of religious belief and empirical belief differed in significant ways. The regions associated with increased activation in response to religious stimuli included the anterior insula, the ventral striatum, the anterior cingulate cortex, and the posterior medial cortex.\n\nIn another study published in 2016, Harris and his team probed the neural systems involved in maintaining one's political beliefs in the face of opposing evidence.\n\nHarris is a proponent of secular meditation practices. His practice developed from Vipassana and Dzogchen. He states that the key aim of meditation is to enable its practitioners to see that the feeling of self is an illusion. In September 2018 Harris released a meditation app, Waking Up with Sam Harris.\n\nHarris is a student of the martial arts and practices Brazilian jiu-jitsu. Harris was at one point a vegetarian, but gave it up after six years, citing health concerns. In 2015, he returned to vegetarianism for ethical reasons, with the intention of eventually going vegan, and supported the idea of cultured meat.\n\nHarris has been reluctant to discuss personal details such as where he now lives, citing security reasons. In 2004, Harris married Annaka Harris, an editor of nonfiction and scientific books. They have two daughters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "153499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153499", "title": "Support group", "text": "Support group\n\nIn a support group, members provide each other with various types of help, usually nonprofessional and nonmaterial, for a particular shared, usually burdensome, characteristic. Members with the same issues can come together for sharing coping strategies, to feel more empowered and for a sense of community. The help may take the form of providing and evaluating relevant information, relating personal experiences, listening to and accepting others' experiences, providing sympathetic understanding and establishing social networks. A support group may also work to inform the public or engage in advocacy.\n\nFormal support groups may appear to be a modern phenomenon, but they supplement traditional fraternal organizations such as Freemasonry in some respects, and may build on certain supportive functions (formerly) carried out in (extended) families.\n\nOther types of groups formed to support causes, including causes outside of themselves, are more often called \"advocacy groups\", \"interest groups\", \"lobby groups\", \"pressure groups\" or \"promotional groups\". Trade unions and many environmental groups, for example, are interest groups. The term \"support group\" in this article refers to peer-to-peer support.\n\nSupport groups maintain interpersonal contact among their members in a variety of ways. Traditionally, groups have met in person in sizes that allowed conversational interaction. Support groups also maintain contact through printed newsletters, telephone chains, internet forums, and mailing lists. Some support groups are exclusively online (see below).\n\nMembership in some support groups is formally controlled, with admission requirements and membership fees. Other groups are \"open\" and allow anyone to attend an advertised meeting, for example, or to participate in an online forum.\n\nA self-help support group is fully organized and managed by its members, who are commonly volunteers and have personal experience in the subject of the group's focus. These groups may also be referred to as \"fellowships\", \"peer support groups\", \"lay organizations\", \"mutual help groups\", or \"mutual aid self-help groups\". Most common are 12-step groups such as Alcoholics Anonymous and self-help groups for mental health.\n\nProfessionally operated support groups are facilitated by professionals who most often do not share the problem of the members, such as social workers, psychologists, or members of the clergy. The facilitator controls discussions and provides other managerial service. Such professionally operated groups are often found in institutional settings, including hospitals, drug-treatment centers and correctional facilities. These types of support group may run for a specified period of time, and an attendance fee is sometimes charged.\n\nIn the case of a disease, an identity or a pre-disposition, for example, a support group will provide information, act as a clearing-house for experiences, and may serve as a public relations voice for sufferers, other members, and their families. Compare Mensa International and gay pride, for example.\n\nFor more temporary conditions, such as bereavement or the problems of ex-cult members, a support group may veer more towards helping those involved to overcome or move \"beyond\" their condition/experience.\n\nSome support groups and conditions for which such groups may be formed are:\n\nSince at least 1982, the Internet has provided a venue for support groups. Discussing online self-help support groups as the precursor to e-therapy, Martha Ainsworth notes that \"the enduring success of these groups has firmly established the potential of computer-mediated communication to enable discussion of sensitive personal issues.\"\n\nIn one study of the effectiveness of online support groups among patients with head and neck cancer, longer participation in online support groups were found to result in a better health-related quality of life. \n\nA researcher from University College London says the lack of qualitative directories, and the fact that many support groups are not listed by search engines can make finding an appropriate group difficult. Even so, he does say that the medical community needs \"to understand the use of personal experiences rather than an evidence-based approach... these groups also impact on how individuals \"use\" information. They can help people learn how to find and use information: for example, users swap Web sites and \"discuss\" Web sites.\"\n\nIt is not difficult to find an online support group, but it is hard to find a good one. In the article \"What to Look for in Quality Online Support Groups\", John M. Grohol gives tips for evaluating online groups and states: \"In good online support groups, members stick around long after they've received the support they were seeking. They stay because they want to give others what they themselves found in the group. Psychologists call this \"high group cohesion\", and it is the pinnacle of group achievement.\"\n\nSeveral studies have shown the importance of the Internet in providing social support, particularly to groups with chronic health problems. Especially in cases of uncommon ailments, a sense of community and understanding in spite of great geographical distances can be important, in addition to sharing of knowledge.\n\nOnline support groups, online communities for those affected by a common problem, give mutual support and provide information, two often inseparable features. They are, according to Henry Potts of University College London, \"an overlooked resource for patients.\" Many studies have looked at the \"content of messages\", while what matters is the effect that \"participation\" in the group has on the individual. Potts complains that research on these groups has lagged behind, particularly on the groups which are set up by the people with the problems, rather than by researchers and healthcare professionals. User-defined groups can share the sort of practical knowledge that healthcare professionals can overlook, and they also impact on how individuals find, interpret and use information.\n\nThere are many benefits to online support groups that have been found through research studies. Although online support group users are not required to be anonymous, a study conducted by Baym (2010) finds that anonymity is beneficial to those who are lonely or anxious. This does not pertain to some people seeking support groups, because not all are lonely and/or anxious, but for those who are, online support groups are a great outlet where one can feel comfortable honestly expressing themselves because the other users do not know who they are.\n\nA study was conducted by Walther and Boyd (2000) and they found a common trend to why people find online support groups appealing. First, the social distance between members online reduced embarrassment and they appreciated the greater range of expertise offered in the larger online social network. Next, they found that anonymity increased one's confidence in providing support to others and decreased embarrassment. The users of the social support websites were more comfortable being able to reread and edit their comments and discussion forum entries before sending them, and they have access to the website any time during the day. Each of these characteristics of online support groups are not offered when going to an in-person support group.\n\nIn a study conducted by Gunther Eysenbach, John Powell, Marina Englesakis, Carlos Rizo, and Anita Stern (2004), the researchers found it difficult to draw conclusions on the effectiveness of online peer-to-peer support groups. In online support groups, people must have the desire to support and help each other, and many times participants go on the sites in order to get help themselves or are limited to a certain subgroup.\n\nAn additional benefit to online support groups is that participation is asynchronous. This means that it is not necessary for all participants to be logged into the forum simultaneously in order to communicate. An experience or question can be posted and others can answer questions or comment on posts whenever they are logged in and have an appropriate response. This characteristic allows for participation and mass communication without having to worry about time constraints. Additionally, there are 24-hour chat rooms and spaces for focused conversation at all times of the day or night. This allows users to get the support they need whenever they need it, while remaining comfortable and, if they so wish, anonymous.\n\nAlthough there has been relatively little research on the effectiveness of online support groups in mental health, there is some evidence that online support groups can be beneficial. Large randomised controlled trials have both found positive effects and failed to find positive effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "23647133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23647133", "title": "Timeline of snowflake research", "text": "Timeline of snowflake research\n\nThe hexagonal snowflake, a crystalline formation of ice, has intrigued people throughout history. This is a chronology of interest and research into snowflakes. Artists, philosophers, and scientists have wondered at their shape, recorded them by hand or in photographs, and attempted to recreate hexagonal snowflakes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "310720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310720", "title": "Ur-Hamlet", "text": "Ur-Hamlet\n\nThe Ur-Hamlet (the German prefix \"Ur-\" means \"primordial\") is a play by an unknown author, thought to be either Thomas Kyd or William Shakespeare. No copy of the play, dated by scholars to the second half of 1587, survives today. The play is known to have been staged in London, more specifically at The Burbages Shoreditch Playhouse as recalled by Elizabethan author Thomas Lodge. The play is known to have a character named Hamlet; the only other known character from the play is a ghost who cries, \"Hamlet, revenge!\"\n\nWhat relation the \"Ur-Hamlet\" bears to Shakespeare's more commonly known play \"Hamlet\" is unclear: it may contain events supposed to have occurred before Shakespeare's tragedy or it may be an early version of that play; the First Quarto in particular is thought perhaps to have been influenced by the \"Ur-Hamlet\".\n\nSome scholars believe that the \"Ur-Hamlet\" had influence from the German work \"Der bestrafte Brudermord.\"\n\nBecause Nashe apparently alludes to Thomas Kyd in the same passage of his \"Menaphon\" introduction, and because of similarities between Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" and Kyd's \"The Spanish Tragedy\", Kyd is believed by many to be the author of the lost \"Ur-Hamlet\".\n\nCertain other scholars believe that the play is an early version of Shakespeare's own play, pointing to the survival of Shakespeare's version in three quite different early texts, Q1 (1603), Q2 (1604) and F (1623), suggesting the possibility that it was revised by the author over a period of many years. While the exact relationship of the short and apparently primitive text of Q1 to the later published texts is not resolved, Hardin Craig has suggested that it may represent an earlier draft of the play and hence would confirm that the \"Ur-Hamlet\" is in fact merely an earlier draft of Shakespeare's play. This view is held in some form or another by Harold Bloom, Peter Alexander, and Andrew Cairncross, who stated that \"It may be assumed, until a new case can be shown to the contrary, that Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" and no other is the play mentioned by Nashe in 1589 and Henslowe in 1594.\" Harold Jenkins, in his 1982 Arden edition, dismisses this assertion.\n\n"}
{"id": "570062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=570062", "title": "Wolf Szmuness", "text": "Wolf Szmuness\n\nWolf Szmuness ( March 12, 1919 – June 6, 1982 ) was a Polish-born epidemiologist who emigrated to and worked in the United States. He conducted research at the New York Blood Center and, from 1973, he was director of the Center's epidemiology laboratory. He designed and conducted the trials for the first vaccine to prove effective against hepatitis B.\n\nSzmuness was born in Warsaw, Poland on 12 March 1919. He studied medicine in Italy, but he returned to be with his family around the Nazi German invasion of Poland in 1939. As the Germans and Soviets occupied Poland, Szmuness was separated from his family, who were later killed by the Germans. Trapped in the Communist-occupied part of Poland, Szmuness traveled eastward to escape the advancing Nazis. He asked the Soviets to let him fight the Germans but was sent to Siberia as a prisoner.\n\nFollowing a year of hard labour in the prison camp, Szmuness was appointed head of sanitary conditions. He later became the head epidemiologist in the local district. After release from detention in 1946, Szmuness completed his medical education at the University of Tomsk in Siberia, and earned a degree in epidemiology from the University of Kharkov.\n\nSzmuness married a Russian woman, Maya, and in 1959 was allowed to return to Poland. There, he continued his education at the University of Lublin and worked as an epidemiologist in municipal and regional health departments.\n\nSzmuness's colleague Aaron Kellner reports that the Polish authorities granted Szmuness a vacation at a rest home, where he shared a room with a Catholic priest, Karol Wojtyła, and began a longtime correspondence with him. Karol Wojtyła would later become Pope John Paul II.\n\nIn 1969, Szmuness, his wife and their daughter Helena were permitted to attend a scientific meeting in Italy. Upon arriving, Szmuness defected and emigrated to New York City in the United States for religious and political reasons. Through the intervention of Walsh McDermott, a professor of public health at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, Szmuness was hired by the New York City Blood Center. Because doctors from abroad are not usually accredited in the United States, Szmuness began as a laboratory technician, but his skills were quickly recognized, and, within two years, Szmuness headed his own lab. A separate department of epidemiology at the Center was created for him, and he also became a full professor at the Columbia University School of Public Health. According to Aaron Kellner, President of the Center, within five years of arriving in New York, Szmuness became \"an international figure in epidemiology and the field of hepatitis\".\n\nSzmuness died of lung cancer in 1982.\n\nSzmuness first became interested in the hepatitis B virus when his wife, Maya, was nearly killed by the liver disease caused by the virus, which she contracted through a blood transfusion. In New York, Szmuness investigated the natural history of hepatitis B. A vaccine was produced in the late 1970s, and Szmuness designed and conducted vaccine trials to determine its efficacy. Over 1000 male homosexuals participated in the trials; they were chosen as participants because they \"had been found to have a risk of developing hepatitis B that is 10 times greater than that for the population in general\".\n\nA highly controversial theory suggested that HIV-contaminated Hepatitis B vaccine trials in 1978 were responsible for the original spread of AIDS in the United States by infecting gay men in New York City with HIV. Evidence as to the presence of HIV in Szmuness's lab, or a mechanism for this introduction have not been offered, and scientific data strongly suggests that HIV instead first came to the United States with Haitian immigrants around 1969, many years prior to trials conducted on the Hepatitis B vaccine.\n"}
