{"id": "33008342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33008342", "title": "Almaty Management University", "text": "Almaty Management University\n\nAlmaty Management University (ALMA, , ) is a higher educational institution in Almaty, Kazakhstan, providing preparation of specialists of economic fields under bachelor's degree programs, MBA (Master of Business Administration) and DBA (Doctor of Business Administration).\n\nALMA is one of the first business higher schools in Kazakhstan — the University was organized in 1988 as Alma-Ata School of Managers, in 1996 it became the International Academy of Business. In 2014 it adopted its current name.\n\nIn the autumn of 1988 the Alma-Ata City Executive Committee initiated creation of \"Union\" Republican Cooperative Association, Leonid Solomin was invited to be head of the association. Together with Bazhangali Kozhshibayev, he decided to create the first business school in Kazakhstan. On December 12, 1988 the Alma-Ata School of Managers (ASM) has been organized in Alma-Ata on the basis of \"Union\" Republican Cooperative Association, its first listeners were engaged in assembly hall of the Soviet district committee of the Communist party exactly during a month. During the first period of existence of the school education was conducted in the form of short-term courses which were listened by the top and medium-level managers, people with higher education.\n\nIn October 1989 Asylbek Kozhakhmetov who was working in the school as the teacher of computer science became the director of ASM. In 1990 the staff of ASM has taken part in the organization of Association of Schools of International Business, the director of ASM Asylbek Kozhakhmetov became a member of its council, assembly of institutes, schools of preparation of entrepreneurs of the CIS.\n\nIn 1992 the staff of the school began doing steps to create a Master of Business Administration program and project on realization of programs for administrative personnel, ASM was the first institution in Kazakhstan proposing MBA on the educational market of the country.\n\nIn 1994 the Ministry of Economy of Kazakhstan announced a tender for the project on consultation of the enterprises, financed by the World Bank. Five of six western organizations participating in the tender (the European Foundation for Management Development, École de management de Lyon, the Maastricht School of Management and others) named ASM as the most preferable partner. In 1995 the educational institution has been renamed into Almaty School of Management (ASM).\n\nIn October 1995, the competence, reliability and actual success of the Almaty School of Management was highly appreciated by the People to People International, which awarded the “Torch of Birmingham” for successful economic survival and development under conditions of the emerging market relations.\n\nIn 1996 ASM organized the international conference «Management of human resources: strategy and practice» with participation of more than 100 delegates from 15 countries, the Minister of Economy Umirzak Shukeyev, an adviser of the President of Kazakhstan for economic issues Altay Tleuberdin, the first secretary of representation of the European Union in Kazakhstan Onno Simons, the representative of the United Nations in Kazakhstan Nigel Ringrose and others.\n\nOn November 14, 1996, according to the Order of Government of Republic of Kazakhstan #1387 Almaty School of Management has been transformed to the International Academy of Business (IAB). The first intake to evening program of MBA with corporate management specialization has been carried out the same year.\n\nIn 1998, the International Development Association of the World Bank chose the Academy as a partner in realization of the program of creation of research base for working out of 1998–2001 economic policy in the countries of Central Asia.\n\nIn 1999, the Almaty School of Management had an agreement with the Canadian McGill University about start of joint program of preparation of financiers under the name \"Professional Financial Diploma\". At the same year an agreement of cooperation with the HEC Paris (France) has been signed with support of embassy of France in Kazakhstan and the first intake to the program «Master of Professional Management» was done.\n\nOn January 14, 2000, official opening of the International Academy of Business in a new building (the corner of Abay Avenue and Bayzakov Street in Almaty) took place with participation of the President of Association of Financiers of Kazakhstan, the Chairman of the Council of Trustees of IAB Daulet Sembayev, the Vice-Mayor of Almaty Kozy-Korpesh Janburchin, diplomats and businessmen. At the time of opening IAB included eight institutions providing economic education: Almaty School of Management, Almaty Center of Bank Education, educational center of network and telecommunication technologies «CISKO», Institute of Managers McGill — ASM, Institute of Economy and Finance, Kazakhstan Institute of Marketing and Management, business class, program «Begin and improve your business».\n\nIn July 2000, IAB has received a grant from Philip Morris Kazakhstan JSC for purchase of computers.\n\nIn 2000, the Academy started the program of the higher professional education.\n\nIn 2002, IAB as a pilot high school participated in public accreditation passing by criteria of European Quality Improvement System (EQUIS) initiated by the Central Asian Foundation for Management Development (CAMAN). From 65 high schools from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan applied for accreditation, only four educational institutions including IAB were able to pass it successfully.\n\nAccording to the results of 2002, the Academy became the winner of “With Overall Quality to the 21st century” competition of the Republican Quality Association in the category “Education” for the best management system.\n\nIn 2003, the International Executive MBA (IE MBA) program was developed in cooperation with HEC Paris and Louvain School of Management (Belgium). This program became a development of the one-year program «Master of Professional Management» operating from 1999.\n\nIn 2003, the representative office of the International Academy of Business was opened in Astana for realization of MBA programs, organization of corporate seminars, trainings and consulting services.\n\nIn July 2003, the Kazakhstan-European Center of Strategic Management of Universities was created on a basis of IAB, the founders of the center were the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan, the European Foundation for Management Development, Association of High Schools of Kazakhstan, Association of Institutions of Professional Education of Kazakhstan, the Central Asian Foundation for Management Development (CAMAN).\n\nThe same year in Kazakhstan business schools rating under МВА programs conducted by the \"National Business\" magazine the International Academy of Business has won the first place outstripping KIMEP and UIB.\n\nIn 2009 the president-rector of MAB Asylbek Kozhakhmetov initiated the program «Support of rural schools by high schools»; according to the initiative it was offered to each of 144 Kazakhstan high schools to look after one of 200 rural districts of the country. IAB within the framework of the program has been incurring support of educational institutions of Aiyrtau District of North Kazakhstan Province. Within the framework of the program teachers of Aiyrtau District schools are gratuitously invited to Almaty for improvement of professional skill during spring and autumn school vacations.\n\nSince 2009 within the framework of republican competition \"ZachOT\" founded by the International Academy of Business more than 20 Kazakhstan journalists and mass-media are annually awarded for the best illumination of vital topics in sphere of Kazakhstan education.\n\nIn autumn of 2009 teachers of IAB published the book «Business Express Course» within the framework of the project \"Business Adviser\" — gratuitous methodical support of individual entrepreneurs in village areas organized by Damu Entrepreneurship Development Fund.\n\nSince June 2010 IAB holds the international summer session Business Education Teachers Academy (BETA-2010) directed on development of professional skills and personal growth of teachers of Kazakhstan and foreign high schools.\n\nSince 2010 IAB organize Ulytau cultural-linguistic camp — the project for studying of the Kazakh language with immersing to the language and cultural environment. In summer of 2010 the first participants of camp-aul were 83 persons — heads and experts of the national companies of National Welfare Fund \"Samruk-Kazyna\". In 2011 60 participants passed \"immersing\" in Ulytau camp.\n\nIn 2010 the International Academy of Business has opened representative office in the West Kazakhstan region (Atyrau).\n\nSince autumn of 2011 the Academy became the first private high school in Kazakhstan technically ready to accept students and listeners with the limited possibilities (with infringement of the musculoskeletal system and visual system); toilets, wheelchair ramps and special lift were equipped for this purpose.\n\nIn 2014, the International Academy of Business changed its name to Almaty Management University, with ALMA University used as a shortened form of the new name.\n\nAlmaty Management University uses the model for continuous educational process which includes:\n\nCollege of IAB was created in 2009 and prepares specialists for seven specialties of technical and economic education: economics, marketing, management, accounting and audit, finance, information systems, assessment.\n\nHigher Professional Education Department of Almaty Management University prepares bachelors in the following specialties: Economics, Management, Marketing, Accounting and Audit, Finance, Information Systems, Regional Studies, Restaurant ana Hotel Management, Business Analytics and Big Data, Software Engineering, Jurisprudence, State and Local Administration, Publis Relations, Logistics.\n\nMaster Degree programs: Management, Marketing, Finance, Business Analytics and Big Data, Jurisprudence, Informatics (in pedagogy). \n\nDoctoral (phD) programs: Management, Marketing, Finance, Business Administration. \n\nMaster of Business Administration Department of the Almaty Management University provides educational services according to the following MBA programs:\n\nThere are plans of development of new joint MBA programs with leading business schools of the European Union and ASEAN.\n\nDoctor of Business Administration (DBA) program in IAB is maximally individualized and allows to listeners to create variants ofstudying programs consisted from various moduls of basic and special courses. Education includes auditorian work in groups and independent work under direction of a supervisor of studies, and also individual work of listeners of the program without direct participation of a teacher on chosen educational and research trajectory. The DBA programs are joint products of IAB and the Russian Academy of National Economy and Public Service under the President of Russia and Maastricht School of Management.\n\nSince 2001 the University has hosted theoretical and practical conference «Young Sharks of Business», since 2007 the conference has an international status. The organizers of the conference are the International Academy of Business in cooperation with students' scientific organization «Dixi!».\n\nSince 2001 student council works in the Academy, election of council's members is made by student voting.\n\nSince 2003 best students of IAB are annually awarded in 10 nominations at annual ceremony «Gold Snail» with encouragement of winners in form of 10—60% discount for education fee.\n\nStudents of IAB were among winners of the republican competition for the best scientific work of students on natural, technical and humanitarian sciences at the II international youth forum «Youth in Science-2010» organized by the Foundation of the First President of Republic of Kazakhstan. Students of the Academy are winners and prize-winners of international, republican, city student olimpiads.\n\nAnnually IAB organizes various competitions for students: winners among business projects developed by students of IAB within the framework of competitions \"Business Safari\" and \"Business Incubator\" are awarded, intellectual games \"What? Where? When?\" and Brain Ring are held. The Career Centre of IAB regularly organizes fairs of vacancies and presentations of the companies-partners for the purpose of employment of students of the Academy.\n\nA student newspaper \"Primus inter pares\" is published in the Academy; in 2010 by an initiative of students IAB held the I National Forum of Student Mass-Media with support of \"Soros Foundation Kazakhstan\".\n\nAnnually IAB organizes competition «Mister and Miss IAB», and also mayovkas on the nature, thematic evenings in the Academy's building and clubs and other entertaining actions, there are KVN teams in IAB.\n\nKVN team \"Capital\"\n\n- Winners of the KIMEP Rector's Cup 2015\n\n- Winners of the Final Regional League Cup of Azerbaijan 2015 in Baku\n\n- Owners of an increased rating at the KiViN Festival Sochi 2015\n\nKVN team \"Friday\"\n\n- Holders of the Rector's Cup 2015\n\n- Finalists of the League of KVN \"Alma-Ata\" 2016\n\n- Finalists of the League of KVN \"Alma-Ata\" 2017\n\n- Champions of the Regional League KVN \"Irtysh\" 2017 Pavlodar\n\n- Participants of the Regional League KVN \"Ala-TOO\" 2018 Bishkek\n\nThe Sinergy Debate Club has existed since 2001.\n\n- Winners of tournament 2014\n\n- Winners of the KBTU 2015 Cup\n\n- Winners of the CDU 2015 Cup\n\n- Winners of the city tournament KazNU 2016\n\n- Three-time finalists of the CDU 2017 Cup\n\n- III place in the city tournament in 2017\n\nThe International Academy of Business is located in a building in Almaty with total area of 8,732.1 m², there is also a sport center with area of 1,024 m², a parking for 250 cars, a dining room with 190 seats. Buildingof the Academy is technically ready to accept students and listeners with the limited possibilities (with infringement of the musculoskeletal system and visual system); toilets, wheelchair ramps and special lift were equipped for this purpose.\n\nThe Academy's library was created in 1996, listeners of the Almaty School of Management were its first users. In 1997 the library received a grant of Eurasia Foundation for the project «Development of library and reading room» which main purposes were equipment by technics and replenishment of library fund by the necessary literature for maintenance of educational process of the academic programs, and also providing of access to Internet. In 2001 a grant was received for the project «Formation of book fund and development of library of the International Academy of Business» with purposes of further development of book fund, improvement of given services due introduction of program «IRBIS» to library processes. Library of IAB is a member of the Information Consortium of Libraries of Kazakhstan. The library's fund consists of 203,000 books.\n\nOn December 4, 2009 solemn presentation of sport club and new sport complex of the International Academy of Business has taken place with participation of Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov, known Kazakhstan sportsmen, actors, representatives of mass-media, students and employees of IAB. Opening was visited by Olympic champions Zhaksylyk Ushkempirov and Olga Shishigina, Olympic bronze winner, youth world champion Nurbakhyt Tenizbayev, the Vice-President of Football Federation of Kazakhstan Seilda Bayshakov and others.\n\nIn September 2017 Almaty Management University (AlmaU) opened the Knowledge Building - a new intellectual innovation building.\n\nThe new building of AlmaU, built using the latest technology, is probably the most ambitious project in the field of education. Modern infrastructure, including coworking centers, food courts, places for relaxation, conference rooms, modern laboratories, classrooms; beautiful design, versatility, innovation and convenience in everything are the main criteria which  the developers of this building of the southern capital were guided by.\n\nOn the 1st floor there is Atrium Grand Hall for 600 seats with a huge LED display and professional acoustic and lighting equipment, and a reading room with a book-crossing sector and a cafe with flavorous coffee.\n\nOn the 2nd floor there are student classrooms, a relaxation room and 4 laboratories:\n\n“Petroleum Transportation Lab” Laboratory of  \"School of Economics and Logistics\" (General sponsor - Petroleum LLP). Creation of “PetroleumTransportLab” laboratory is one of the key steps towards implementation of a number of projects: creation of a transport hub, logistics outsourcing, development of transport services, operator and forwarding business, etc.\n\nNeuromarketing Laboratory of \"Graduate School of Management\" (Magnum Cash and Carry helped to purchase equipment for this laboratory) is equipped with a video camera, microphone and Tobii Glasses 2 mobile eye tracking system, which provides objective data on consumers' perceptions of various trademarks and brands and reveals hidden factors affecting decision making process. Using this technology, it is possible to study the visual perception of consumers when making a purchase decision. The laboratory allows to conduct applied research using neurobiological analysis tools and expert opinions for business. This project has no analogues in the Republic of Kazakhstan.\n\nSimulation room of \"Center for Mediation\" \"and Center of Excellence\" is equipped with four video cameras, microphones and voice recorders. It is used to resolve disputable situations and conflicts that may arise in the educational process, for example, between a student and a teacher (student and management, employee and manager, etc.). Situations are played in the simulation room, audio and video recording is conducted, which makes it possible to analyze the process. The room is also used for conducting research with participation of focus groups, and conducting in-depth interviews with possibility to observe the process from the adjacent sector: whether the methodology is not violated, whether there is no pressure on respondents.\n\nThe oratory workshop of \"Graduate School of State and Public Administration and Law\" is a mirror room equipped with a video camera for recording and analyzing the speaker’s speeches. A photograph of a listening audience on the wall creates an atmosphere of real-life performance. In the course of trainings, the psychological barrier is overcome, communication and oratorical skills are developed. The workshop is aimed at shaping the culture of public speaking: the conceptual apparatus, wide vocabulary range, techniques of verbal and non-verbal communication, as well as presentation and self-presentation skills.\n\nOn the 3rd floor of Knowledge Building there are classrooms of Graduate School of Business equipped with a smart system, in particular, MBA programs and doctoral programs, as well as the classroom of MBA Association, whose accreditation is got by Almaty Management University (AlmaU), the only university in Kazakhstan and Central Asia, in the list of the top 200 best universities in the world.\n\nOn the 4th floor there are 3 laboratories:\n\nDesignLab Laboratory of \"Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation Development\", is equipped with a sound system and a projector, glass boards for design processes, as well as tools and accessories for creating and modeling prototypes. In the process of working in the laboratory, students and trainees perform dozens of practical tasks, simulating prototypes of business processes on their own - this is how fast experience is formed, practicing thinking and various methods of working with the project are applied in order to find their own ways of solving creative problems. The \"value of design thinking for business\" is that this technique allows to work with “implicit knowledge” of the consumer, which he cannot recognize and tell on his own. That, ultimately, allows you to get products and services that are focused on people.\n\nCyber-Polygon \"EngEkon\" Laboratory of the \"School of Economics and Logistics\" (general sponsor is Kazakhstan GIS Center JSC, Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan) is considered to be the brightest laboratory. Its walls are painted in three different colors: red, green and blue, the laboratory is equipped with 4 displays, 7 computers, a projector, an audio system. As planned by the authors of the project, two opposing forces are involved in the simulation: the attacker, occupying the red corner, is trying to make a hole in the system; defenders, sitting opposite the screen in the green zone, use preventive methods to isolate the attack. Each side has 3 computers. The blue zone is the zone of observers, where the overall picture of the unfolding battle between “hackers” and “Information Security” (IS) is visible on the display. The purpose of the cyber-test site is to teach students to counteract cyber-terrorism, preventing hacking of databases and data leakage.\n\nMediaLab Center for Multimedia Journalism of  \"Graduate\" \"School of State and Public Administration\" \"and Law\" is equipped with a projector, computers and a voice recorder. It is an open working media space operating on the principle of dual education. A feature of the project is the working format of the center: students under the supervision of mentors initiate their own topics independently and in project groups and experiment with the production of various content, as well as learn how to work in social networks and how to create and maintain their own brand. It is important: MediaLab helps not only to students-journalists and PR specialists, but works “at the junction”, teaching economists, financiers, and logisticians to create media content. \n\nOn the 5th floor there are administration offices, equipped with smart systems, student classrooms, meeting room of AlmaU Board of Trustees.\n\nOn the 6th floor, visitors will see “SMART-conference hall”, where it is possible to control light, sound, air conditioning, a projector, roll-up curtains from the iPad; Also, guests can view the magnificent panorama of the mountains from the windows of Panorama Hall.\n\nAll the laboratories of the new building, whose construction was financed by Capital Bank Kazakhstan, are equipped with innovative technologies and work together with the partners of the university - government agencies, business structures, media companies. It is this format that allows the university to implement the principle of Win-Win-Win, according to which any mutually beneficial cooperation between the two parties (Win-Win) should be of benefit to a third party - society (Win). It is also an excellent example of successful implementation of the “triple spiral” theory, the essence of which is in dynamic development of relations between the state, universities and business for effective development of new industries and solving existing problems.\n\nIt is worth noting that the new building will be managed in a new way. It is facilitated by the knowledge management system launched at AlmaU. Created to improve university management efficiency, the Knowledge Management System processes large streams of information (BIG DATA), integrates various information systems, and automates business processes.\n\n\nSince 2008 Asylbek Kozhahmetov is the president-rector of the International Academy of Business. He worked as a teacher of the Alma-Ata School of Managers since January 1989, since October of the same year he worked as the Director of the School of Managers of the \"Union\" Republican Cooperative Association, since 1990 he was the Director of small collective enterprise «Alma-Ata School of Managers», since 1992 he was the General Director of «Almaty School of Managers» JSC, in 1998-2002 he was the President of the International Academy of Business.\n\nIn December 2009 the Council of Trustees of IAB was created with the purpose of maintenance of financial and information support, assistance to strengthening of material base and a social infrastructure, working out and solution of tasks of strategic development, contribution to personal growth of staff and students of the Academy. The Chairman of the Council of Trustees is the President of Commercial and Industrial Chamber of Kazakhstan, the Chairman of Board of Directors of «Parasat Holding» JSC Yerlan Kozhasbay. Council also includes the Chairman of the Council of the Association of Financiers of Kazakhstan Serik Akhanov, the Vice-Mayor of Almaty Serik Seidumanov, a member of the Council of Businessmen under the President of Kazakhstan, the Chairman of the Council of the Forum of Businessmen of Kazakhstan, the Chairman of the «Raimbek Group» company Raimbek Batalov, the President of «Astana Group» JSC Nurlan Smagulov, the Vice-President of Board of Directors of Kazkommertsbank, the ex-chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan, the ex-vice-premier of the Government of Kazakhstan Daulet Sembayev, the Chairman of a Board of Trustees of the Association of Economists of Kazakhstan, the ex-chairman of National Bank of Kazakhstan, the ex-vice-premier of the Government of Kazakhstan, ex-Minister of Finance Uraz Dzhandosov and other known economists and businessmen.\n"}
{"id": "7302284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7302284", "title": "András Pető", "text": "András Pető\n\nAndrás Pető (11 September 1893 in Szombathely, Hungary – 11 September 1967 in Budapest, Hungary) was a practitioner of physical rehabilitation whose work provided the foundation for conductive education.\n\nAndrás Pető was born in 1893 in Szombathely, Hungary, as an elder of three sons. His father fell ill in 1907 with Parkinson's disease, which compelled András to support the family financially. He worked as a tutor and a newspaper editor.\n\nAfter graduation, he studied from 1911 in Vienna. Originally he to be a journalist, but in Vienna decided to study medicine. During his studies he met Jacob L. Moreno, doctor, playwright and psychotherapist, with whom he formed a lifelong friendship - and also came into contact with the various psychological schools of Vienna centered around Freud, Adler and Frankl.\n\nBetween 1930 and 1938, Pető published many literary, philosophical and medical works. He was the editor-in-chief of the periodical \"Biologische Heilkunst\" (\"Biological Healing\") and was better known as a journalist than a physician.\n\nThe forced incorporation of Austria into Nazi Germany March 1938 made life difficult and dangerous for Jews, so he moved to Paris where he stayed briefly and worked as a journalist, then he returned to Hungary. Very little is known about Peto's life during the time of World War II but it is assumed that he was in hiding in Budapest during the German occupation. His mother was killed in Auschwitz.\n\nHis institute, the National Institute of Motor Therapy, officially opened in 1952. Although nominally under the Ministry of Health, instead of following the medical model of providing therapies, Pető created a framework for an educational model, in which children with disabilities could have an education that met their particular physical and intellectual needs. Accordingly, in the early 1960s his institute moved into the Ministry of Education.\n\nConductive education (CE) entered the wider public consciousness in the mid-1980s, as a result of two television documentaries —\"Standing Up For Joe\" (1986), and \"To Hungary with Love\" (1987).\n\nIn recent years, CE has gained more and more acceptance in the education of children with motor disorders. While developed first for children who had cerebral palsy or brain injury, it has also been used with adults with Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis and after-stroke conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "19518793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19518793", "title": "Australian Computers in Education Conference", "text": "Australian Computers in Education Conference\n\nThis National Conference is the biennial conference of the Australian Council for Computers in Education (ACCE). The conference brings together educators from across Australia and around the world who are interested in the use of information and communication technologies to support and enhance teaching and learning in school classrooms, as opposed to a focus on its use in higher education, or school administration.\n\nAffiliate member organisations of ACCE take turns to host the national conference, in place of their own state conference. The affiliates are:\n\nThe first conference (labelled as ACEC) took place in Melbourne in 1983. Since that time it has continued to provide teachers around the country a forum to exchange information on classroom activity, make connections with each other, and learn from experts in the field. The conference proceedings provide an insight into the nature of educational computing practice since the early 1980s and the papers are widely cited in the research field literature. \n\nIn 2008 the conference was held in Canberra and the then Education Minister Julia Gillard delivered the opening Keynote Address, highlighting the importance of digital technologies in her education reform agenda.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "530916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=530916", "title": "Bachelor of Engineering", "text": "Bachelor of Engineering\n\nThe Bachelor of Engineering, abbreviated as B.E., B.Eng. or B.A.I. (in Latin form) is a first professional undergraduate academic degree awarded to a student after four to five years of studying engineering at an accredited university. In the UK, a B.Eng. degree will be accredited by one of the Engineering Council's professional engineering institutions as suitable for registration as a incorporated engineer or chartered engineer with further study to masters level. In Canada the degree from a Canadian university can be accredited by the CEAB. Alternatively, it might be accredited directly by another professional engineering institution, such as the US-based Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). The B.Eng. contributes to the route to chartered engineer (UK), registered engineer or licensed professional engineer and has been approved by representatives of the profession.\n\nA B.E. has a greater emphasis on math and science, to allow the engineers to move from one discipline to another. Multi-discipline is required in certain fields, like Marine Engineering. The marine engineer is required to know mechanical, chemical and electric engineering. If an engineer is strictly staying in a single discipline she would probably be better served with a B.Sc. A typical B.Sc. is 128 credits. SUNY Maritime B.E. is 172 credits.\n\nMost universities in the United States and Europe award the Bachelor of Science Engineering (B.Sc.Eng.), Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.), Bachelor of Engineering Science (B.Eng.Sc.), Bachelor of Science in Engineering (B.S.E.) or Bachelor of Applied Science (B.A.Sc.) degree to undergraduate students of engineering study. For example, Canada is the only country that awards the B.A.Sc. degree for graduating engineers. Other institutions award engineering degrees specific to the area of study, such as B.S.E.E. (Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering) and BSME (Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering).\n\nA less common and possibly the oldest variety of the degree in the English-speaking world, is \"Baccalaureus in Arte Ingeniaria\" (B.A.I.), a Latin name meaning \"Bachelor in the Art of Engineering\". Here \"Baccalaureus in Arte Ingeniaria\" implies an excellence in carrying out the 'art' or 'function' of an engineer. The degree is awarded by the University of Dublin (its Trinity College Dublin has had a School of Engineering since 1841) and also by the constituent universities of the National University of Ireland (N.U.I.), but in everyday speech it is more commonly referred to as \"Bachelor of Engineering\" and the N.U.I. graduates also use the post-nomials translated into English, B.E., even though the actual degree and its parchment is in Latin.\n\nSome South African Universities refer to their engineering degrees as B.Ing. (\"Baccalaureus Ingenieurswese\" - Afrikaans).\n\nA Bachelor of Engineering degree will usually be undertaken in one field of engineering, which is sometimes noted in the degree postnominals, as in \"BE(Aero)\" or \"BEng(Elec)\". Common fields for the Bachelor of Engineering degree include the following fields:\n\nIn Australia, the \"Bachelor of Engineering\" (BEng) is a four-year undergraduate degree course and a professional qualification. It is also available as a six-year sandwich course (where students are required to undertake a period of professional placement as part of the degree) or an eight-year part-time course through some universities. The Institution of Engineers, Australia (Engineers Australia) accredits degree courses and graduates of accredited courses are eligible for membership of the Institution. Bachelor of Engineering graduates may commence work as a graduate professional engineer upon graduation, although some may elect to undertake further study such as a Master's or Doctoral degree. Chartered Professional Engineer (CPEng) status or the various State registration requirements are usually obtained in later years. Graduates with formal engineering qualifications in Australia are often referred to as Professional Engineers to distinguish them from other professions where the term \"Engineer\" is used loosely.\n\nIn Bangladesh, \"Bachelor of Science in Engineering\" B.Sc. (Engineering) is a four year under-graduate university degree. Eligibility for entry is 12 years of school education under science background. Generally the first year (first two semesters) is common to all branches and has the same subjects of study. Courses divert after first year. The medium of instruction and examination is English. Generally, universities in Bangladesh offer engineering degree in the following branches: Computer Science and Engineering, Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Industrial and Production Engineering, Information and Communication Engineering, Material Science and Engineering, Nuclear Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Textile Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Biomedical Engineering, Food engineering and Agricultural Engineering. The Ministry of Education (Bangladesh), UGC and Government of Bangladesh are responsible for approving engineering colleges and branches/courses. Only those universities which have been approved by these bodies can award degrees which are legally valid and are accepted as qualifiers for jobs in the government and private sector.\n\nIn Canada, degrees awarded for undergraduate engineering studies include: the \"Bachelor of Engineering\" (B.Eng. or B.E., depending on the institution); the \"Bachelor of Applied Science\" (B.A.Sc.); and the \"Bachelor of Science in Engineering\" (B.Sc.Eng.).\n\nThe Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board (CEAB), a division of the Engineers Canada, sets out and maintains the standards of accreditation among Canadian undergraduate engineering programs. Graduates of those programs are deemed by the profession to have the required academic qualifications to be licensed as professional engineers in Canada. This practice is intended to maintain standards of education and allow mobility of engineers in different provinces of Canada.\n\nA CEAB-accredited degree is the minimum academic requirement for registration as a professional engineer anywhere in the country and the standard against which all other engineering academic qualifications are measured. Graduation from an accredited program, which normally involves four years of study, is a required first step to becoming a Professional Engineer. Regulation and accreditation are accomplished through a self-governing body (the name of which varies from province to province), which is given the power by statute to register and discipline engineers, as well as regulate the field of engineering in the individual provinces.\n\nGraduates of non-CEAB-accredited programs must demonstrate that their education is at least equivalent to that of a graduate of a CEAB-accredited program.\n\nIn Germany, the \"Bachelor of Engineering\" was introduced as part of implementation of the Bologna process. However, this degree is in fact mostly offered by German Fachhochschule-institutions Universities of Applied Sciences. German technical universities award a Bachelor of Science in engineering rather than the BEng degree.\n\nThe situation is similar in Finland as in Germany. Universities of applied sciences (ammattikorkeakoulu) grant professional bachelor's degrees (\"insinööri (amk)\"). The degree does not traditionally prepare for further study, but due to the Bologna process, a completely new degree of \"ylempi insinööri (yamk)\" has been introduced for engineers who wish to continue studying after some work experience. Before 2005, academic universities (see Education in Finland) did not make an administrative distinction between studies on the Bachelor's and Master's level and the Master's level diplomi-insinööri was the first degree to be received. Due to the Bologna process an intermediate \"Bachelor of Science in Engineering\" (\"tekniikan kandidaatti\") has been introduced.\n\nIn Pakistan, Bachelor of Engineering (BE) or Bachelor of science in Engineering (BS/BSc Engineering) is a four years undergraduate professional university degree. The prerequisite for this program is a two years FSc pre-engineering or a three years Diploma of Associate Engineer (DAE) in specific fields e.g. Chemical Engineering, Electronics Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Civil Engineering etc. Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) is the responsible government body for accreditation of undergraduate engineering degrees, registration of engineers and regulation of engineering profession in Pakistan. PEC is a full signatory of Washington Accord and International Professional Engineer (IntPE) Agreement (IPEA).\n\nIn Nepal, the Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) is a four-year undergraduate course. The pre-requisite for this course is either Higher Secondary Level(10+2 Science) with Physics Major or Proficiency Certificate Level (PCL) in Engineering or Science. Institute of Engineering under the umbrella of Tribhuvan University offers B.E. degree in several disciplines such as Electronics and Communication Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Automobile Engineering, Geomatics Engineering, Industrial Engineering, Agricultural Engineering etc. Likewise other universities in Nepal such as Kathmandu University, Pokhara University and Purbanchal University, Mid Western University offers B.E. degree in most of aforementioned engineering disciplines. The normal duration for the completion of the course is 4 years. However, the maximum time to complete the course is 8 years from the time of registration or 4 years after the normal duration.\nGraduates of B.E. degrees can apply for the Engineer title (Er.) or certification as registered engineer to a governing body called Nepal Engineering Council (NEC). After the scrutiny examination of the application/applicants, Nepal Engineering Council provides the Certificate of Registration as a General Engineer which is a must for practicing engineering profession in Nepal. For example: If a student called XYZ graduate with B.E. degree in Electronics and Communication Engineering from one of the accredited universities, he/she is registered as a General Electronics and Communication Engineer with Er. title written in front of name as Er. XYZ\n\nIn the Netherlands the \"Bachelor of Engineering\" was also introduced as part of implementation of the Bologna Process, the same as in Germany. The degree is only offered by Dutch Hogeschool-institutions and is equivalent to the Dutch engineer's degree \"ingenieur\" (ing.). A Dutch BEng involves a rigorous study of four years and is only awarded in the field of aeronautical engineering, mechanical engineering, software engineering, industrial engineering or electrical engineering. Completion of a Dutch engineer's study in the field biochemical engineering, biomedical engineering, chemical engineering, environmental engineering, material engineering is however awarded with a Bachelor of Applied Science degree. Dutch technical universities award a Bachelor of Science in engineering (BSc) instead of the BEng degree.\n\nIn India, Bachelor of Engineering (BE) degree is a professional undergraduate degree awarded after completion of four years of engineering study. Institute of national importance, like Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) and National Institute of Technology (NIT) offer Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) degree instead of BE in engineering disciplines. Some Indian universities offer engineering degree under the name of Bachelor of Engineering (BE) and some universities offer engineering degree under the name of B.Tech but whichever name is used, the degree course follows the standard curriculum laid down by the University Grants Commission of India (UGC), All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and National Board of Accreditation (NBA). There is no difference in the program objectives and learning outcomes of BE and B.Tech. except nomenclature. Eligibility for entry is 12 years of school education. Generally the first year (first two semesters) is common to all branches and has the same subjects of study. Courses divert after first year. The medium of instruction and examination is English. Generally, universities in India offer engineering degree in the following branches: Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Electronics and Communications Engineering, Instrumentation and Control Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, Information Technology, Chemical Engineering, Biotechnology, Metallurgical Engineering, Aerospace Engineering, Production Engineering, Biochemical Engineering, Biomedical Engineering and Agricultural Engineering. The University Grants Commission of India (UGC), All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and National Board of Accreditation (NBA) are responsible government authorities for approving engineering colleges and branches/courses. Only those universities which have been approved by these bodies can award degrees which are legally valid and are accepted as qualifiers for jobs in the central/state government and private sector.\n\n"}
{"id": "41813337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41813337", "title": "Bala Devi Chandrashekar", "text": "Bala Devi Chandrashekar\n\nBala Devi Chandrashekar is a Bharatanatyam dancer and teacher based in Princeton, New Jersey, United States. She was trained under Dr. Padma Subrahmanyam. Bala Devi Chandrashekar is a Professor of practice in Asian performing arts. Her approach is interdisciplinary, involving lecturing and research. Bala Devi's unique well researched productions include Nandanar Charithram, Krishnaarpnam and Uddhava Gita.\n\nBala Devi Chandrashekar is the artistic director of the New Jersey Bharatanatyam school Shree Padma Nrityam Academy of performing Arts Inc., with head office in Princeton, New Jersey. The school provides Bharatanatyam classes to aspiring dancers and also serves as a facilitator for cultural preservation, presentation, and exchange of ideas for South Asian Performing Arts with a primary focus on Indian classical dance - Bharatanatyam.\nBala works as a Bharatanatyam teacher, lecturer & researcher and a performer. She is a performing soloist and has developed her own dance technique, and currently she works on number of projects on Performing Arts, raising the awareness of Bharatanatyam in New Jersey and the relationship to other performing arts. Bala works on the study of movement technique investigating the relationship of the archive and the repertoire, from an interdisciplinary domain; Dance technique, Cultural Perspectives of South Asia, Music, Literature, Art History and Dance Anthropology.\n\nBala has performed in many prestigious venues in North America, Europe, Middle East and India. As a Professor of Practice & Artistic Director of SPNAPA Academy of Performing Arts, Princeton, New Jersey, she imparts valuable knowledge to her many dedicated students. Bala constantly works on developing and perfecting the style that would be seamless and fluid while yet retaining the precision, power and purity of line -typical of classical dance. As a Professor of Practice, Bala is constantly developing curriculum in “Performing studies” in collaboration with Theater and Dance, History, Philosophy, Linguistic anthropology and South Asian Departments of various Universities in the United States. She has served as a Fellow and Artist - in - Residence at The Carl A fields Center at Princeton University. Bala Devi has given lecturers and taught courses on Bharatanatyam in Mount Holyoke, Princeton, Columbia university, University of Pennsylvania, Yeshiva University, Vassar College, Rutgers University, New Jersey. Rider University New Jersey.\n\nBala’s focus on Lecture and research blends seamlessly with her concert platform. Her lecturers incorporate the core architectural components of ancient temple sculptures – Karanas, governed by artistic laws of value bridging disciplines together and reducing the hazy scope. She has participated in numerous lecturers, intercultural, religious and performing arts events as a faculty, consultant and mentor and is the recipient of several prestigious grants from several state and private foundations including the NJ Humanities council, Texas commission on the Arts and Ohio State Council on the Arts.\n\n\nKey productions include Nandanar Charithram, MLV Favorites- A traditional Margam based on songs popularized by legendary carnatic music singer M L Vasanthakumari, Krishnaarpan - A margam based on the Life of Lord Krishna. In year 2013, she presented Uddhava Gita\n- Lord Krishna last message. This was the first time Uddhava Gita was presented in Bharatanatyam format. Uddhava Gita was premiered at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan London, England. The same production was successfully presented in Chennai Dance festival in month December 2012. In year 2013, Bala also presented Vishwam - The Omnipresent. Based on the sacred Hindu text Bhagavatham - The production had references to Lord Krishna life, King Mahabali and the unique story of Sage Markandaya. Bala Devi has produced four Bharatanatyam DVD's till date. Presented Vishwam - The Omnipresent at John Witherspoon Middle School, New Jersey as a part of fund raiser for a New Jersey-based arts organization on the 16th May 2014.\n\nServed as a Honorary Board member for New Jersey Governor school, New Jersey, USA.\n\nServed as an Artist in residence - Princeton University, Princeton, USA\n\nAdvisor - Sangam Festival, New Jersey\n\nBala Devi Chandrashekar ancestors belong to Kodavasal, Manjakudi of Thanjavur District, Tamil Nadu. She is actively involved in village of Umayalpuram, by maintaining a very old Sri Rama temple in Umayalpuram with visits and performances every year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33580758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33580758", "title": "Bildungsbürgertum", "text": "Bildungsbürgertum\n\nBildungsbürgertum () is a social class that initially emerged in mid-18th century Germany as an educated class of the bourgeoisie with an educational ideal based on idealistic values and classical antiquity. The \"Bildungsbürgertum\" could be described as the intellectual and economic upper bourgeoisie in contrast to the \"Kleinbürgertum\" (petite bourgeoisie).\n\nThe term itself was coined in the 1920s by the right wing and had an anti-bourgeois sentiment, which was perceived by the incompatible idea of being a 'genuine' intellectual and a bourgeois (Bürger).\n\nThe term \"Bildungsbürgertum\" is a concept difficult to translate into the English language. The notion of the word \"Bildung\" has broader meaning than that of \"culture\", or \"education\", and is deeply rooted in the idea of the Enlightenment. The term also corresponds to the ideal of education in the work of Wilhelm von Humboldt. Thus, in this context, the concept of education becomes a lifelong process of human development; rather than mere training in gaining certain external knowledge or skills, education is seen as a process wherein an individual's spiritual and cultural sensibilities as well as life, personal and social skills are in a process of continual expansion and growth. (See \"Bildung\", General knowledge)\n\n\"Bildungsbürgertum\" was the term for a new social class that initially emerged in Germany in the mid-18th century. This group distinguished themselves through education in the humanities, literature, and science, and involvement in the state affairs. As a class of wealthy non-noble people, emerging first in the free imperial cities, they gained material wealth, social position and a better education, which was based on Humboldt's educational ideal. The idea of \"Bildung\" (i.e. culture, education) was shaped by a belief in human perfectibility, specifically that an individual's potential could be realized through a classical education. \n\nIn the late absolutist management state there existed a need for a large number of educated officials to implement reforms. To avoid a violent revolution, as in France, a national class was formed that had access to cultural education and thus to political positions. As a result, many educational institutions were established, significantly more in Germany. The universities established in Germany, including the Humboldt University, became a model for modern universities in other countries. This new class was not primarily defined politically or economically, but mainly culturally. It is often argued that Germany owes its reputation in technical expertise, scholarship and administration to the \"Bildungsbürgertum\".\n\nNationalism at its origin was a liberal ideal, and as the \"Bildungsbürgertum\" were often represented in the liberal factions of society, they were often in the forefront of the quest for the founding of a sovereign nation state. By the 1870s, the bulk of the \"Bildungsbürgertum\" had lost its forward-driving liberal orientation. \n\nAccording to professor Klaus Vondung, the following characteristics could be applied to the \"Bildungsbürgertum\" at the end of the 19th century: \n\n\nIn the 18th century, academic occupations such as professors, gymnasium (grammar school) teachers, physicians, pharmacists, attorneys, judges, Protestant ministers, engineers and leading officials were strongly represented among the \"Bildungsbürger\". \n\nIn Germany the \"Bildungsbürgertum\" exercised first influence before the bourgeoisie as the commercial class gained more influence during industrialization from 1850 onwards. In France and Britain, it developed mainly as a commercial class and could, by virtue of its economic strength, claim political power. In Germany the formation of the bourgeoisie occurred only in the first half of the 1800s, to be politically active. It played a crucial role in the revolution of 1848, which nevertheless failed.\n\nWell-known examples of individuals associated with the term \"Bildungsbürgertum\" are the 20th-century writer Thomas Mann or the Weizsäcker family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44990267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44990267", "title": "COnnecting REpositories", "text": "COnnecting REpositories\n\nCORE (COnnecting REpositories) is a service provided by the Knowledge Media Institute, based at The Open University, United Kingdom. The goal of the project is to aggregate all open access content distributed across different systems, such as repositories and open access journals, enrich this content using text mining and data mining, and provide free access to it through a set of services. The CORE project also aims to promote open access to scholarly outputs. It fully supports the taxpayer's entitlement to the research they have funded and facilitates the wide dissemination of the open access content. CORE works closely with digital libraries and institutional repositories.\n\nBased on the open access fundamental principles, as they were described in the Budapest Open Access Initiative, the open access content not only must be openly available to download and read, but it must also allow its reuse, both by humans and machines. As a result, there was a need to exploit the content reuse, which could be made possible with the implementation of a technical infrastructure. Thus the CORE project started with the goal of connecting metadata and full-text outputs offering, via the content aggregation, value-added services, and opening new opportunities in the research process.\n\nCurrently there are existing commercial academic search systems, such as Google Scholar, which provide search and access level services, but do not support programmable machine access to the content, for example with the use of an API or data dumps. This limits the further reuse of the open access content, for example, with regards to text and data mining. Taking into consideration that there are three access levels to content: 1. access at the granularity of papers, 2. analytical access and granularity of collections and 3. programmable machine access to data the programmable machine access is the main feature that distinguishes CORE from Google Scholar and Microsoft Academic Search.\n\nThe first version of CORE was created in 2011 by Petr Knoth with the aim to make it easier to access and text mine very large amounts of research publications. The value of the aggregation was first demonstrated by developing a content recommendation system for research papers, following the ideas of literature-based discovery introduced by Don R. Swanson. Since its start, CORE has received financial support from a range of funders including Jisc and the European Commission. Although CORE aggregates from across the world, it has the status of the UK's national aggregator of open access content, aggregating metadata and full-text outputs from both UK publishers' databases as well as institutional and subject repositories. The service operates as a one step search tool for UK's open access research outputs, facilitating easy discoverability, use and reuse. The importance of the service has been widely recognised by Jisc, which suggested that CORE should preserve the required resources to sustain its operation and explore an international sustainability model.\nCORE is now one of the Repository Shared Services projects, along with Sherpa Services, IRUS-UK, Jisc Publications Router and OpenDOAR.\n\nCORE data can be accessed through an API or downloaded as a pre-processed and semantically enriched data dump.\n\nCORE provides searchable access to a collection of over 125 millions of open access harvested research outputs. All outputs can be accessed and downloaded free of cost and have limited re-use restrictions. One can search the CORE content using a faceted search. CORE also provides a cross-repository content recommendation system based on full-texts. The collection of the harvested outputs is available either by looking at the latest additions or by browsing the collection at the date of harvesting.\nThe CORE search engine has been selected as one of the top 10 search engines for open access research, facilitating access to academic papers. CORE ranks second among the most useful databases of searching electronic thesis and dissertations (ETDs).\n\nThe availability of data aggregated and enriched by CORE provides opportunities for the development of new analytical services for research literature. These can be used, for example, to monitor growth and trends in research, validate compliance with open access mandates and to develop new automatic metrics for evaluating research excellence.\n\nCORE offers eight applications:\n\n"}
{"id": "40962559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40962559", "title": "Days of Wrath (2013 film)", "text": "Days of Wrath (2013 film)\n\nDays of Wrath (; lit. \"The Punisher\") is a 2013 South Korean film about a man who, having been bullied as a teenager, seeks revenge against the former classmate who ruined his life.\n\nChang-sik bullied Joon-seok relentlessly during high school. And his girlfriend was raped by Chang-sik in front of him and committed suicide on the next day. Fifteen years later, the two encounter each other again. Chang-sik is working for a conglomerate, and preparing for his wedding. On the other hand, because of his traumatic experience, Joon-seok has a difficult time getting a decent job even though he graduated from a prestigious university; he works part-time as a valet park attendant and frequents a convenience store nearby. Unable to forget, Joon-seok prepares for revenge to make Chang-sik pay.\n\n\nIn July 2014, the film was selected to be shown in the 2014 Fantasia International Film Festivalat Montreal, Canada.>\n\n"}
{"id": "10771435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10771435", "title": "EPSI", "text": "EPSI\n\nThe École privée des sciences informatiques (EPSI) is a French private school specialized in information technology. EPSI was founded by professionals. The first school was based in Paris. Later on, with the rise of the computer science industry, the school built branches in Bordeaux, Montpellier, Arras then in October 2002 in Nantes and then later in Lyon.\nDirector : Laurent ESPINE\n\nDate of Creation : September 1961\n\nStatus : IT Private School\n\nState recognition : The diploma is recognised by the French state : (Journal officiel du 9 septembre 1998)\n\n\nBaccalauréat level to apply for the BTS (equivalent to HND) degree\n\nThe French baccalaureate or equivalent diploma is needed to apply for the BTS.\n\nA Bac + 2 (2-year undergraduate degree) is required for the Bachelor (1-year program).\n\nA Bac + 3 (3-year undergraduate degree) is required for the Engineering degree (2-year program).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2779901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2779901", "title": "European Voluntary Service", "text": "European Voluntary Service\n\nEuropean Voluntary Service (EVS) is the European Commission's project that allows a young person (17–30 years) to become a volunteer in another country for a specified period, normally between 2–12 months. The service activities can be, for example, in the field of environment, arts and culture, activities with children, young people or the elderly, heritage or sports and leisure activities. Each project has three partners, a volunteer, a sending organisation and a host organisation. The project has to take place in a country other than where the volunteers lives, is non-profit-making and unpaid and lasts for a limited period (maximum 12 months).\n\nAn EVS project involves a triangular partnership: a volunteer, a sending organisation, and a host organisation. One of the countries involved in a project must be an EU Member State or an accession country.\n\n\nAll volunteers are insured for sickness, accidents, permanent invalidity, and repatriation in case of serious illness, accident, and death through AXA . The insurance also covers civil liability. This insurance complements the protection provided by the national social security (if applicable) which is proven by the E111 (or similar) form of the volunteer. All insurance costs are paid directly by the European Commission and they are not included in project budgets.\n\nThe first step of a prospective volunteer is to find and contact a sending organisation and together with them consult the database of approved hosts.\n\nAll volunteers who have completed their EVS project are entitled to a certificate called a Youthpass signed by the Head of the Youth Agency. This certificate validates their period of voluntary service and provides details of the activities in which they were involved. Volunteers from the countries involved also have the possibility to benefit from the Youth initiative action, and get involved in other Community programmes in general.\n\nIn Austria, due to the conscription regulations, the EVS is recognized as an alternative service to mandatory national service in the Austrian Armed Forces or the regular alternative service called \"Zivildienst\".\n\nBritish residents will continue to have access to the programme until 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1416557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416557", "title": "Executive education", "text": "Executive education\n\nExecutive education (ExEd or Exec. Ed) refers to academic programs at graduate-level business schools worldwide for executives, business leaders and functional managers. These programs are generally non-credit and non-degree-granting, but sometimes lead to certificates and some offer continuing education units accepted by professional bodies and institutes. Estimates by \"Business Week\" magazine suggest that executive education in the United States is approximately an $800 million annual business with approximately 80 percent provided by university-based business schools. Key players in university-based executive education span elite universities, as well as many regional and mid-sized universities and business schools around the world.\n\nCustomized programs, which are tailored for and offered to executives of a single company, represent the fastest growing segment of the market. Customized programs help organizations increase management capability by combining the science of business and performance management into specialized programs that enable executives to develop new knowledge, skills and attitudes. Knowledge translates into the capability an organization applies to the products and services it brings to the marketplace. Research shows that a firm with a clearly articulated and understood business and capability strategy will have a higher market-to-book value than a firm that does not.\n\nOpen enrollment programs also are available as part of university-based executive education offerings, which occur throughout the year on selected dates, and are available to participants from different companies and organizations.\n\nShorter executive education programs tend to focus on specific roles or industries, or on improving specific leadership skills, such as persuasion, negotiation, teambuilding or communication.\n\nSome executive education providers offer more comprehensive management training options, such as the modular \"Advanced Management Program\" (AMP) offered independently by several business schools.\n\nUniversity-based executive education programs, and customized programs in particular, include serious engagement among executives, senior business faculty and researchers who are on the leading edge of business thought and management theory development. It has been noted that “executive education is the toughest classroom there is” (besides other academic fields such as the hard sciences or engineering) because time-pressed and demanding executives challenge each other in the classroom as much or more as their professors. The programs are credited with offering unique networking and personal career development opportunities for participants, as well as opportunities for universities to build stronger alumni networks that also benefit younger, traditional MBA program graduates through networking, internships and job opportunities.\n\nNot all observers of university-based executive education are positive. There is some debate about the nature of business school education as a form of professional development. Some believe that university-based executive education has caused some business schools to \"lose track of their professional mission.\" This argument is made by Rakesh Khurana among others.\n\nThe genesis of executive education can be traced to Frederick Taylor and his 1911 treatise Principles of Scientific Management. This book described how the application of the scientific method to the management of workers could improve productivity. Taylor's ideas, also known as \"Taylorism\" would become the standard for businesses worldwide.\n\nOn the heels of Taylorism came The Alfred P. Sloan School of Management, which in 1914 began offering Course XV, Engineering Administration, at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. At that time, the concept of providing business training in the academic environment was gaining popularity, thus MIT created a program “specially designed to train men to be competent managers of businesses that have much to do with engineering problems.” Harvard also began offering short five-week selections of standard MBA material in the late 1920s.\n\nIn 1930 Course XV at MIT became an independent department and was named the Department of Business and Engineering Administration. In 1931 an innovative program for executive development was initiated with the backing of several industrialists. This one-year program — offering graduate study in the fundamentals of management and decision-making — was aimed at young managers who were nominated by their employers and was highly competitive. In 1938 the program received full funding by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and was formally named the MIT Sloan Fellowship Program for Executive Development at MIT.\n\nExecutive Education in the United States developed critical mass after World War II. The Servicemen’s Readjustment Act of 1944 — commonly known as the GI Bill of Rights — allowed veterans to take advantage of education benefits. Many studied business in college, a privilege previously only enjoyed by the wealthy. Subsequent executive education programs, including the 13-week Advanced Management Program at Harvard University and the four-week Institute for Management at Northwestern University’s School of Commerce (now the Kellogg School of Management), developed in response to the need to rapidly train line executives for general management in the post World War II era.\n\nBy the late 1970s nearly 20 business schools in the United States were offering some form of executive education. The science of business also was developing at a rapid pace as faculty, such as Michael Porter (Harvard ) and C. K. Prahalad (University of Michigan), published academic papers that changed the way people thought and acted within companies.\n\nPrahalad is most notably remembered for developing the concepts of “core competencies” and “strategic intent”. These and other respected academic business thinkers — Don Hambrick, Ram Charan, David Ulrich, Michael Hammer, Gary Hamel and many others — are the true pioneers of executive education and the ongoing effort to facilitate wealth creation and other new concepts aimed at making stronger businesses while improving the welfare of the world.\n\nThroughout the 1970s university-based executive education continued to evolve as an industry. Several on-campus residential facilities were constructed at several universities, demonstrating the value of a standalone facility dedicated to executive education programs. This spurred the development of such facilities at schools nationwide and the subsequent expansion of short open enrollment programs. The industry’s exclusive professional association, The International University Consortium for Executive Education, also came into existence during this period. UNICON began sponsoring a tradeshow in the 1970s for companies interested in learning about university-based executive education and an annual conference for members. UNICON has since grown into a consortium of nearly 100 universities with executive education programs around the globe. It sponsors three annual conferences that allow members to share best practices, conducts research into topics of concern and provides benchmarking data for members.\n\nExecutive education further developed in the 1980s and 1990s as the increasing pace and scope of global business demanded higher levels of education among employees. The dot-com boom further changed the scope of the business landscape by favoring employees and organizations that were quick to adapt to change. As longstanding business concepts became obsolete, continual training was necessary – but earning a degree was not.\n\nIn a 1999 survey of 63 programs, the University of Michigan Business School topped the list. By the next survey in 2001, the number of programs had doubled to 121, with a doubling of revenues to $800M. Shortly after the survey, Executive education growth was dramatically impacted by travel restrictions and economic impact of the September 11 attacks.\n\nThe participation of many of the most prestigious universities around the world has enhanced the value of university-based executive education. Ongoing business challenges and opportunities – a dynamic economy, developing technologies, new business models and globalization – has made the emphasis on learning new concepts throughout ones career a necessity.\n\nDespite the growing popularity of university-based executive education around the world, the global economic recession has slowed the industry’s growth during the past few years. According to a 2011 study conducted by the Manchester Business School in partnership with Dubai International Academic City and Dubai Knowledge Village, the global economic downturn has had a negative impact on learning and development spending within the Middle East. More than half the respondents noted that spending on executive education had been “significantly” affected, while other organizations agreed that spending had been “somewhat” affected.\n\nA return to higher participation appears to be coming as the economy shows more signs of improvement. A substantial portion of the organizations surveyed by Manchester Business School said they anticipate executive education spending to moderately increase during the next three years.\n\nThe situation is similar in other parts of the world according to a late 2010 state of the industry survey conducted by UNICON, which found that many prestigious universities with executive education programs around the world expect notably higher enrollment during 2011. Sixty-five percent of UNICON survey participants predicted increased participation in their open enrollment programs this year. Additionally, 78 percent of schools projected an increase in customized executive education programs during 2011. Nearly half of the schools surveyed indicated an increase in their number of programming days, now offering up to 39 weeks in open enrollment programs and an average of 49 weeks in custom programs. Slightly more than half also reported increasing the number of days that educational programs for executives are offered.\n\nExecutive education rankings are carried out annually by the Financial Times and by Bloomberg BusinessWeek.\n\nRanking may be based on aims achieved, % of women, average rank, country, course design, fac. diversity, facilities, faculty, follow-up, food, growth, intl. location, intl. participants, revenues, participants, partner schools, preparation, skills, teaching, and other criteria.\n\n"}
{"id": "1568877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1568877", "title": "Exploring (Learning for Life)", "text": "Exploring (Learning for Life)\n\nExploring is an interactive, worksite-based career education program of Learning for Life, an affiliate of the Boy Scouts of America. Participants in the program are called Explorers and previously Explorer Scouts. The program serves youth in 6th-8th grades (Exploring clubs), and young men and women who are 14 through 20 years old (Exploring posts). Exploring units (clubs or posts), are sponsored by local businesses, government agencies, and nonprofit organizations, and usually focus on a single career field, but can also introduce youth to a variety of career fields within a single unit.\n\nPrior to 1998, the Exploring program was the main BSA program for older youth and included posts with an emphasis on outdoor activities, which are now part of the Venturing program.\n\nExploring has categorized its programs into twelve fields:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1825957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1825957", "title": "Filmstrip", "text": "Filmstrip\n\nThe filmstrip was a common form of still image instructional multimedia, once commonly used by educators in primary and secondary schools (K-12), overtaken at the end of the 1980s by newer and increasingly lower-cost full-motion videocassettes and later on by DVDs. From the 1940s to 1980s, filmstrips provided an easy and inexpensive alternative to 16 mm educational films, requiring very little storage space and being very quick to rewind for the next use. Filmstrips were large and durable, and rarely needed splicing. They are still used in some areas.\n\nA filmstrip is a spooled roll of 35 mm positive film with approximately thirty to fifty images arranged in sequential order. Like 16 mm film, a filmstrip was inserted vertically down in front of the projector aperture, rather than horizontally as in a slide projector. Therefore, the frame size is smaller than normal 35 mm film. Two image frames of a filmstrip take up the same amount of space as a single 35mm frame, including its guard band, so that a 25 exposure 35mm film can contain 50 filmstrip images. Early celluloid filmstrips had a habit of melting or combusting from the intense and sustained heat of the projection lamp. These were called pictural filmstrips, the first filmstrips that were produced in a complete set.\n\nTypically, a filmstrip's running time was between ten and twenty minutes. Depending on how they were narrated or produced, filmstrips (which often came with an instructor's guide) were flexible enough to be used in both self-paced learning formats or a full classroom. In addition to a standard classroom wall or screen projector, personal film display units were available with a screen size of approximately eight inches diagonal for up-close viewing by one or two people.\n\nThe instructor would turn on a filmstrip projector that would show the first frame (image) of the filmstrip. The instructor then turned on a 33 RPM record or cassette tape containing the audio material for the filmstrip which included narration. At the appropriate point, a tone would sound, signaling the instructor to turn a knob, advancing to the next frame. Later, technical improvements allowed the projector to advance the film automatically.\nBy the later part of the 1960s, such firms as Warren Schloat Productions, CBS, The New York Times Company, Scott Education, Coronet Films, Sunburst Media, and Guidance Associates were producing titles featuring photographs by famous artists and of notable events with a synchronized audio track. The music and narration for the filmstrip originally came on a vinyl record.\n\nIn the 1970s, audio technology advanced, and vinyl records gave way to audio cassettes and became useful in providing individualized instruction. Students could now watch and listen to a filmstrip over and over at their own pace. Filmstrips also moved beyond traditional arts and humanities courses, branching into the science, career, vocational and technical subject areas led by such firms as Bergwall Productions and Prentice Hall Media (Formerly Warren Schloat Productions.) There were filmstrips produced in many different subject areas including music, art, language arts, math, business and even home economics.\n\nIn the early 1950s production companies started producing filmstrips for home entertainment. There were a number of films from Disney, and also from the Society for Visual Education Inc.(Chicago), among other manufacturers.\n\nFilm strips were popular in the USSR because movie projectors and VCRs were not in common use until the early 1990s. A great number of films were produced by the \"Diafilm\" studio. Many filmstrips were produced by \"cinematographic studios\" in former Soviet bloc countries such as Poland and Hungary during the 1950s–1960s.\nIn Greece they were known and sold by the name \"tainies Argo Film\" (ARGO FILM movies) from the name of the company (ARGO FILM) that translated the scripts into Greek and organized the productions' distribution in Greece. The titles included children's stories, fairy tales, Greek history, Christianity, adventure, science fiction and war stories.\n\nDuring the 1970s, advanced projectors became available, and these projectors would automatically advance the film by means of a 50 Hz subaudible tone recorded on the cassette that would be detected by the projector, and automatically advance the frame. Most cassettes accompanying filmstrips in the 1970s and 1980s would have the same audio material on both sides of the tape. One side would have audible tones for the older projectors, and the other side would have the subaudible tones for the newer automatic projectors. Some select filmstrip releases had both audible and subaudible tones combined, making the filmstrip and its companion cassette compatible with any filmstrip projector. If improperly set up, the narration and film would not be synchronized.\n\nFrom the late 1970s to the beginning of 1980, because most filmstrip publishers stopped making their sound filmstrip sets with LP records, audiovisual companies started producing automatic filmstrip projectors with built-in cassette players to better meet the audiovisual needs of teachers and school librarians. In 1979-1980 the DuKane Corporation in St. Charles, Illinois began to produce a cassette automatic filmstrip projector called the DuKane Micromatic II. This automatic filmstrip projector was easier to use by loading the filmstrip in the projector backward when the plastic upper film spring was flipped back. Loading the cassettes into the projector's cassette compartment was also easier with a control panel for the filmstrip and accompanying cassette. This filmstrip projector also had 50 Hz synchronization and could also be operated by remote control when set on manual mode. It was very popular with classroom and music teachers and school librarians. DuKane also produced their new line of silent filmstrip projectors which were also popular in schools. The La Belle Commpak system always use 1000 Hz tone to advance to the next slide. It will be embedded on to the Commpak 8track cartridge. Then it will be played on to la belle tutor 16/la belle duo 16 system. The general electric show 'n' tell record system use 16mm for film and record for audio and cool thing is the 16mm played upside down advance to the next frame. Simelar to la belle commpak system and dukane filmstrip projector the general electric show 'n' tell system contains any story on 1 16mm film format.\n\nThe 1980s brought the advent of the video cassette recorder (VCR), and advancing technology meant increasingly affordable VCRs. When VCRs became within reach for most schools' budgets, this marked beginning of a decline in filmstrip use. Video instruction combined the ease of the filmstrip with automatically synchronized audio and full motion video. By the early 1990s, the vast majority of filmstrip producers that were not equipped to compete with video either closed or sold their businesses.\n\nIn the late 1990s to early 2000s, some audiovisual companies (such as Society for Visual Education Inc., Educational Audio Visual, and Metro Audio Visual) were still producing filmstrips for schools and libraries. When VHS, DVD, multimedia projectors and computers became popular in schools and libraries, however, filmstrips ceased to be used in schools, and many public libraries no longer had filmstrips in their catalogs. By the mid-2000s many schools no longer wanted to purchase filmstrips, and audiovisual companies stopped producing them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23563733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23563733", "title": "Flat World Knowledge", "text": "Flat World Knowledge\n\nFlatWorld is a publisher of college-level textbooks and educational supplements founded in 2007 as Flat World Knowledge by Eric Frank and Jeff Shelstad. It was acquired at the end of 2016 by Alastair Adam and John Eielson and its company headquarters was moved from Washington, DC to Boston, MA. The company originally offered every textbook published free using online delivery under the open content paradigm, but in November 2012, the company announced that it will no longer offer a free version citing financial concerns as the reason for the change.\n\nFollowing the 2016 acquisition, the company rebranded as FlatWorld. FlatWorld publishes more than 100 peer-reviewed textbooks.\n\nFlat World Knowledge was founded in 2007 by Jeff Shelstad and Eric Frank in Nyack, New York.\n\nFlat World Knowledge began alpha testing of their platform and business model spring of 2008. Two alpha phases involved faculty and one alpha phase involved students. The company then moved to small-scale private beta testing in 27 classes. Based on results from these studies, the business model was determined viable and the company moved toward preparing for a public beta launch in January 2009.\n\nDuring spring of 2009, 30 colleges adopted Flat World open textbooks in public beta bringing the company their first 1,000 users. Eight textbooks were published at the time. By August 2009, Flat World textbooks had been adopted at 400 colleges for use by 40,000 students.\n\nFlat World Knowledge and Lyryx Learning Team Up to Offer Free and Open Textbooks With Integrated Assessment.\n\nThe company also published a graphic novel, \"\" in August.\n\nFlat World Knowledge moved from Nyack, New York to Irvington, New York to accommodate company growth.\n\nFlat World Knowledge entered into a unique licensing agreement with Virginia State University in 2010. For eight core business courses, students gained access to all electronic formats of select textbooks including study aids. Unlike traditional licensing models, students retain access to course materials and study aids indefinitely through their Flat World student account. Audio textbook versions and ePub files similarly do not expire. The price for this universal digital access license is cited as $20 per student by the \"Richmond Times-Dispatch\".\n\nThe Virginia State University program is featured in the \"BizEd\" article \"Digital at the Core.\" Virginia State University is using the agreement as part of a university effort to \"save money, save the environment, improve student retention, and prepare business graduates for the complex working world.\"\n\nAs of August 2010, the number of colleges and universities using Flat World open textbooks doubled to 800 higher education institutions. Student users more than tripled with 150,000 students using 24 published titles.\n\nDuring fall semester 2010, 50 additional titles were announced as in the publication pipeline. 2010 also marked crossing the threshold of having 100 authors signed to write open textbooks for publication by Flat World Knowledge.\n\nFlat World Knowledge claimed that in its second full academic year of operation, they would save 150,000 college students $12 million in textbook costs in the 2010–2011 school year after adoptions by more than 1,300 educators as of August 2010.\n\nIn December 2010, Outsell Inc. named Flat World Knowledge as one of \"30 to Watch\" for 2011 among innovators and disruptors who were selected for \"shaking up their respective marketplaces.\"\n\nIn November 2012, FlatWorld announced that it will no longer provide free access to their textbook content citing financial concerns as the reason for this change. Unable to continue to operate without a way to generate greater revenue, it instituted a paywall and moved away from the open model. Over the next three years, the company pivoted focus, investing in developing a new, competency-based learning platform and line of business.\n\nIn late 2016, the core textbook publishing business, Flat World Knowledge, was spun off and acquired by Alastair Adam and John Eielson and rebranded as FlatWorld. The remaining competency-based learning business was rebranded as Sagence Learning. Adam and Eielson saw an opportunity to disrupt the higher-education publishing market, where fewer and fewer students were able to afford a new textbook and were increasingly reliant on used, rented or outdated editions of titles. They wanted to refocus FlatWorld on low-cost, high-quality textbooks, available in whatever format the student preferred. They believed that by offering high-quality textbooks at affordable prices, they could put a new, current edition textbook in every student’s hands on the first day of class.\n\nFlat World Knowledge secured $11.5 million in investments through 2010, including an initial $700k angel investment.\n\nIn January 2011, $15 million in Series B funding led by Bertelsmann Digital Media Investments (BDMI), a wholly owned subsidiary of Bertelsmann AG, and Bessemer Venture Partners was announced. Returning investors for Series B funding include Valhalla Partners, GSA Venture Partners (formerly Greenhill SAVP), Primary Venture Partners and several angel investors.\n\nRandom House announced an investment in Flat World Knowledge in April, 2011. Random House is the world's largest publisher of commercial trade books. Random House chairman and CEO Markus Dohle states Flat World Knowledge is a “transformative company in higher-education publishing” and said, “We [at Random House] share a strong drive to make high-quality academically-oriented content widely available and affordable for students and educators, and we welcome the opportunity to invest in Flat World's growth.\"\n\nA Canadian representation agreement was announced in March 2011 with Northrose Associates of Whitby, Ontario, Canada. The Canadian higher education system faces challenges similar to U.S. higher education providers from the ever escalating costs of traditional college textbooks. Open textbooks from Flat World Knowledge will be actively marketed by the firm to educators and higher education administrators across Canada.\n\nIn addition to use in Canada, worldwide learners are accessing Flat World Knowledge textbooks regularly. Adoptions have been reported in 44 countries. The company actively promotes use of their free and open textbook delivery platform to advance education internationally. The most frequent international access originates in India, China, the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Egypt, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Romania, Australia, the United Kingdom, and Germany. International usage is growing rapidly. In March 2011 alone traffic increased enough in four countries to be added to the cited Alexa Internet traffic ranking report. The \"Make it Your Own\" (MIYO) feature of the company's publishing platform allows for customization and annotation of published titles in English and other languages.\n\nThe company was featured in Chris Anderson's \"\" in 2008.\n\nIn 2009, BNET recognized Flat World Knowledge as an industry innovator for introducing an abundance-based disruptive business model to the college textbook industry. That same year, Flat World Knowledge and Bookshare were jointly recognized as publishing industry innovators of 2009.\n\nFlat World Knowledge was identified in a 2010 report by Nicole Allen of The Student PIRGs \"A Cover to Cover Solution: How Open Textbooks are the Path to Textbook Affordability\" and the New Media Consortium's \"2010 Horizon Report\" as a contributor to the rapidly progressing adoption of open content in higher education.\n\nIn December 2010, the American Library Association's Business Reference Sources Committee of RUSA's Business Reference and Services Section (BRASS) selected Flat World Knowledge's Business and Economics open textbooks for their 2010 list of \"outstanding business reference sources.\" Specific criteria used by the American Library Association BRASS when evaluating texts for selection were:\n\n\"A resource compiled specifically to supply information on a certain subject or group of subjects in a form that will facilitate its ease of use. The works are examined for authority and reputation of the publisher, author, or editor; accuracy; appropriate bibliography; organization, comprehensiveness, and value of the content; currency and unique addition to the field; ease of use for intended purpose; quality and accuracy of indexing; and quality and usefulness of graphics and illustrations. Each year more electronic reference titles are published, and additional criteria by which these resources are evaluated include search features, stability of content, graphic design quality, and accuracy of links. Works selected are intended to be suitable for medium to large academic and public libraries.\"\nThe Flat World Knowledge open textbook \"Organizational Behavior\" by Talya Bauer and Berrin Erdogan was recognized by the Text and Academic Author's Association with a Textbook Excellence Award (\"Texty\") in March 2011. \"This is the first time that an open textbook has won a Texty,\" notes Richard Hull, TAA’s executive director, \"and signals the emergence of a new publishing model.\" Winners are determined by a panel of veteran academic authors. The award seeks to \"recognize works for their excellence in the areas of content, presentation, appeal, and teachability.\"\n\nIn March 2012, Flat World Knowledge titles won two \"Texty\" awards. \"Information Systems: A Manager’s Guide to Harnessing Technology,\" 2nd ed., by John Gallaugher won best new textbook of the year for the College, Accounting/Business/Economics/Management category. \"Sociology: Understanding and Changing the Social World\" by Steve Barkan won best new textbook of the year for the category College, Humanities/Social Sciences.\n\nFlat World Knowledge textbooks are developed for accessible publishing natively to facilitate compliance with expectations placed on educators for assuring student accessibility to course materials set forth in Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). For students with text, vision, vision and hearing, or physical disabilities, Flat World Knowledge has partnered with Bookshare to provide no-charge accessible digital books including an electronic Braille format. Bookshare members with qualifying disabilities have immediate access to course and reference materials online as opposed to having to request materials direct from the publisher by mail or through another intermediary. According to Jim Fruchterman, CEO of Benetech, the non-profit organization that operates Bookshare, \"Without the cooperation of a publisher such as Flat World, students often wait for weeks to get textbooks in accessible formats and, in some cases, are forced to drop courses due to lack of accessible books. Flat World is the first postsecondary textbook publisher to recognize and alleviate this problem.\"\n\nFlat World Knowledge claims to make compliance with the recent Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) simple as the basic price for their textbooks is free and once published, any edition number remains available online at no charge or available for order in print by students, educators, and bookstores on-demand; educators change versions only when they wish and book versions are never \"out of print.\"\n\nDigital textbook and course material formats offer sustainability advantages over traditional paper textbooks. According to a publishing industry study, an estimated \"net [carbon] emission of 8.85 pounds per book [is created for each paper book] sold to consumers.\" The net carbon emission for textbooks is much higher as the industry average includes high volume small paperbacks, children's books, and many other small form factors popular with consumers.\n\nIn 2010-2011, approximately 57.5% of students using Flat World texts opted for entirely digital delivery. As of fall 2011, 70% of students opt for digital formats, significantly reducing the ecologic footprint from textbook use when compared to the historic paper textbook format. Demand for free internet, ePub, .MOBI (Kindle), and PDF format books and materials is growing rapidly. Flat World Knowledge is \"far ahead of the industry curve\" for digital format use.\n\nFor the approximately 30% of students who choose a print version over a digital one, Flat World Knowledge uses just-in-time centralized and local print on demand in their business model.\n\nLocal print on demand of licensed content offers environmental benefits by saving the need to produce, store, and ship books from a central location — saving energy, natural resources, and cost. Eliminating the need for shipping alone eliminates at least 12.7% of the carbon footprint for paper books.\n\nFlat World Knowledge offers local booksellers the opportunity to license open textbook content for on-demand printing by the Espresso Book Machine and similar equipment, removing the need for shipping and warehouse inventory, bulk receiving, and stocking shelves. Local print on demand is an emerging trend that will help reduce environmental and financial costs of textbooks as the technology is adopted to serve educators and learners who desire print format books.\n\nSome students use accessible and audio formats. Though Braille embossers print on paper, it is essential to provide access to educational materials in the format of choice to students regardless of disability. The same electronic file that is provided for a Braille embosser by Bookshare for Flat World Knowledge open textbooks is also compatible with many refreshable Braille displays.\n\nOther accessible and audio mp3 formats are very sustainable as they are electronic.\n\nUntil November 2012, Flat World open textbooks were available to read for free through the Flat World Knowledge website in an e-reader like format. Any user with access to the Internet was able to read the entire textbook catalog for free. This option has since been eliminated because too many students were taking advantage of this option and the FWK business model was becoming unsustainable without increased revenue from the other options.\n\nAccessible formats of published works for people with qualifying disabilities are available at no charge through Bookshare.\n\nTextbooks in formats including print, individual PDF chapters, ePub, .MOBI (Kindle), audio mp3, abridged audio study mp3, and optional study tools are available for purchase by students direct, through bookstores, and via select online providers.\n\nFor users that desire note taking, highlighting, flash cards, or access to a condensed study view of textbooks through their online account, a paid study pass purchase is required.\n\nDerivative works created through the Flat World publishing engine are available online at no charge in the two formats described earlier or for purchase in print format direct or through bookstores by ISBN. An ISBN is generated for all derivative work publications developed through the Flat World Knowledge publishing engine as is a Creative Commons license compatible with the original work. Accessible derivative work versions of Flat World Knowledge titles are made available for students with disabilities through Bookshare upon request.\n\nThe company produces textbooks in a device-agnostic manner to facilitate use of electronic publication formats on all major platforms including iPad, iPhone, Amazon Kindle, Nook, EnTourage eDGe, Sony Reader, and Android devices.\n\nNo Internet browser preference is stated for general access to free online reading over the Internet. Flat World Knowledge textbooks can be viewed on all major browsers and platforms.\n\nFlat World Knowledge textbook content can be integrated directly into a learning management system such as Blackboard Learning System, ANGEL, Moodle, WebCT, or Desire2Learn. Direct linking is available to Flat World textbooks, sections, and individual pages so other means of accumulating content in containers for group access to course learning materials are also supported. This addresses a controversy over time limitations placed on access to course content held by academic period based learning management systems.\n\nFlat World Knowledge provides instructor resources including test banks and lecture slides to registered and verified educators at no charge. Instructor testing and quiz materials are suitable for import into learning management systems. Specifically cited formats include[Blackboard Learning System, ANGEL, Moodle, and WebCT plus a Respondus Neutral Personality file suitable for import to compatible systems. Compatible systems cited by Respondus include those previously listed plus Desire2Learn and eCollege.\n\nUsage permissions granted automatically under the Creative Commons license assigned to Flat World textbooks lets users remix, annotate, and build upon the publication non-commercially as long as users give credit to the original author(s) and license their new creations under identical (share-alike) terms. Translations are also automatically permissible under these licenses, either complete or as embedded content within the English or other language text. Educators are allowed to edit, add their own content, or insert annotations in a self-service manner using the Flat World Knowledge publishing engine available over the Internet.\n\nCommercial use of published works requires an arrangement with the company and respective authors. Authors and the company are entitled to royalties from commercial use \"in any manner that is primarily intended for or directed toward commercial advantage or private monetary compensation\" according to license terms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24182325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24182325", "title": "FoolProof", "text": "FoolProof\n\nThe FoolProof Initiative is a project by the FoolProof Foundation that teaches consumer life skills and healthy skepticism to consumers. It teaches consumers to question anyone who wants to impact their money or welfare. Its resources are generally listed under \nfinancial literacy resources.\n\nFoolProof was founded by Walter Cronkite and a group of young people. It provides free, advertising-fee, and comprehensive consumer life skills curriculums for middle and high schools, as well as a consumer newspaper.\n\nThe peer-to-peer curriculums use video and audio, games and music in a modular system to teach critical thinking skills and habits that can travel with a consumer through life. It also includes complex as well as basic financial concepts such as understanding credit (finance) and credit score, getting a checking account or savings account, and knowing how to use credit cards.\n\nThe Initiative, for instance, appears to be one of the most effective in reaching vulnerable young people with meaningful education, rather than programs sponsored by business.\n\nIts motto is \"Use Caution. Question Sellers. Rely on Research.\"\n\nFoolProof is a program designed by young people from across the world to help educate students about financial decisions in a friendly video format using real-life stories. The best part is that FoolProof can be used for free by anyone, no matter their financial aptitude, to help (young) people learn about money and the power of healthy skepticism.\n\nYoung people generally make common mistakes when it comes to their money. The FoolProof Initiative addresses these problems.\n\nHere is a list of the most common mistakes:\n\n\nAvailable are a variety of educational programs/curriculums that are tied to state financial literacy standards and guidelines, listed in every state by the United States Department of Education. FoolProof also teaches financial literacy topics required by the Council of Economic Education. All programs are available to any consumer for free.\n\nThe FoolProof Initiative is endorsed by many consumer-oriented organizations throughout the United States:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9317846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9317846", "title": "Gail Godwin", "text": "Gail Godwin\n\nGail Godwin (born June 18, 1937) is an American novelist and short story writer. Godwin has written 14 novels, two short story collections, three non-fiction books, and ten libretti. Her primary literary accomplishments are her novels, which have included five best-sellers and three finalists for the National Book Award. Most of her books are realistic fiction novels that follow a character's psychological and intellectual development, often based on themes taken from Godwin's own life.\n\nGodwin was born in Birmingham, Alabama, but raised mostly in Asheville, North Carolina by her mother and grandmother. She adopted her mother's interest in writing at an early age and obtained a Bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC). After graduating, she worked briefly as a reporter for \"The Miami Herald\", then traveled to Europe and worked for the U.S. Travel Service run by the U.S. Embassy in London. She returned to the U.S. after six years. Godwin taught English at the University of Iowa, while earning her M.A. (1968) and PhD (1971) in English Literature.\n\nWhile at the University of Iowa, Godwin's dissertation became her first novel, \"The Perfectionists\". By 1976 she had become a successful writer and author of three books. In particular, two books written by her in the 1980s, \"A Mother and Two Daughters\" (1982) and \"A Southern Family\" (1987), resulted in further acclaim and expanded the readership of her books. Following \"The Finishing School\" (1984), readership of her books dramatically declined until 2006, when \"Queen of the Underworld\" was published. \"Flora\" (2013) became one of her more commercially successful novels.\n\nGail Godwin was born on June 18, 1937 in Birmingham, Alabama. Her parents, Kathleen Krahenbuhl and Mose Winston Godwin, were both from North Carolina, but visiting cousins in Alabama when Godwin was born. Godwin's parents divorced two years later. After the breakup, Gail and her mother moved in with her grandparents in Durham, North Carolina. They moved again to Weaverville, NC and then to Asheville, NC. Her grandfather died in 1939, so Godwin was raised by her mother and grandmother in Asheville, where they lived until 1948.\n\nGodwin's grandmother filled the traditional role of a mother, cleaning, cooking and sewing, while her mother was the breadwinner. Godwin's mother had a Bachelor's and master's degree from University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She taught college-level English in the mornings, and worked as a reporter for a local paper, \"Asheville Citizen-Times\", in the evenings. On the weekends she wrote love stories for magazines in New York. According to Godwin, growing up with two female guardians had an influence on her writing and her decision to become a writer. By age five she had started identifying with her mother's occupation as a writer more so than her grandmother's work. At nine years old Godwin wrote her first story, titled \"Ollie McGonnigle\".\n\nIn 1948 Kathleen married Frank Cole, a World War II veteran, and moved the family to Virginia. Godwin was further inspired by her mother's determination to continue writing after having a second child. According to Godwin, much of her time growing up was spent in the newsroom, where her mother worked. She also witnessed her mother's plays and novels being rejected. Godwin's autobiography creates the impression that much of her own writing was intended to accomplish the things her mother could not. As Cole's salary increased and he was able to support the family, Godwin's mother focused on being a wife and homemaker, eventually not writing at all.\n\nIn Godwin's late teens, her stepfather was working as a salesman and the family moved often. Godwin attended several different high schools, including an all-girls Catholic school, St. Genevieve-of-the-Pines. It was Godwin's favorite teacher at St. Genevieve-of-the-Pines who persuaded her to start keeping a personal diary. According to Godwin, she had a \"church upbringing or convent school training.\" She attended church at St. Mary's and All Souls. She also wrote a short novel as a teenager.\n\nGodwin had no relationship with her father, until the two re-connected at her high school graduation. Godwin's father then offered to pay for her college education. During her junior year in college, Godwin moved in with her father, who committed suicide later that year. Godwin's uncle and a half brother later committed suicide as well. Her mother died in a car accident in 1989.\n\nGodwin attended Peace College in Raleigh, North Carolina from 1955 to 1957. She then transferred to University of North Carolina (UNC), where she attended from 1957 to 1959, graduating with a bachelor's degree in journalism. While in college she worked on \"The Otherwise Virgins\", a novel her mother had written, but was unable to find a publisher for. In 1959 Knopf sent an agent to UNC to scout young writers. Godwin submitted a portion of her novel \"Windy Peaks\" for their consideration. The story was about the staff and guests at a resort hotel in the mountains. Her manuscript was rejected. Godwin also worked as a waitress at Mayview Manor at Blowing Rock, North Carolina during her sophomore and junior years.\n\nGodwin's first job out of college was at \"The Miami Herald\", where she worked as a journalist for one year. There she met and briefly married photographer and co-worker, Douglas Kennedy. They were married in 1960 and divorced several months later in 1961. According to Godwin, she \"worked very hard\", but her stories were too \"flamboyant\" for the publication and she was fired. According to \"Contemporary Literary Criticism\", she was incorporating too much human interest into the paper's stories, which were supposed to be factual. After briefly living with her mother again, Godwin moved to London to distance herself from a failed marriage and job.\n\nIn London Godwin worked for the U.S. Travel Service run by the American embassy from 1961 to 1965. Godwin said she was a \"glorified receptionist,\" who was able to read books in secret while at work. Her cousin, who was the mayor of Weaverville, North Carolina, helped to get her the job. While she was employed by the embassy, Godwin completed a novel entitled \"Gull Key\". Like many of her early works, the book focuses on a female character figuring out if marriage and being a parent is the life she wants for herself. Several publishers rejected the novel and the manuscript was lost when Godwin sent the only copy to a publisher that went out of business without returning it.\n\nWhile in England, Godwin took a course in creative writing at the City Literature Institute, where she met her second husband, psychiatrist Ian Marshall. They were married two months later. The marriage was brief and they were divorced in 1966. After their breakup, Godwin returned to the United States. At age 29, she took a job as fact-checker in New York City for \"The Saturday Evening Post\". She said the job was embarrassing, because she wanted to be a writer, as opposed to fact-checking the work of others.\n\nAt this point, a distant uncle of Godwin's died, leaving her an inheritance of $5,000. She used the money to apply to the Iowa Writers Workshop and, after being accepted, to move from New York to Iowa City in 1967. There Godwin met her teacher and future mentor Kurt Vonnegut. At Iowa, Godwin worked as an instructor while earning an M.A. and Ph.D. from the same university in 1968 and 1971 respectively. She began teaching Greek Drama, before earning a position teaching literature. By age 30, Godwin had written three novels, but was unable to get any of them published.\n\nAccording to \"The Asheville Citizen-Times\", Godwin's first successful work was a 1969 short story in \"Cosmopolitan\". Her first published novel was her dissertation written as graduate work at University of Iowa. It was published in 1970 and called \"The Perfectionists\". The story was based loosely on Godwin's second marriage. It was accepted by Harper & Row in December 1968, while Godwin completing her graduate work. From 1971 on, Godwin earned a living through her work as a writer and augmented her income by means of intermittent teaching positions.\n\nAfter completing her graduate work in 1971, Godwin spent two months at the Yaddo artist's colony in Upstate New York in 1972. There she wrote 100 pages of a novel called \"The Villain\", which was never published. The work was scrapped, but ended up being part of the basis for \"The Odd Woman\". According to author Jane Hill, it was while working on \"The Odd Women\" that Godwin transitioned from linear narratives to more complex structures where the plot interweaves past and present events.\n\nIt was at Yaddo that Godwin met composer Robert Starer and began a life partnership with him that lasted until his death in 2001. They moved to Stone Ridge, New York in 1973 and later built a house in Woodstock, New York, where Godwin continued her work from home. In addition to her books and short stories, Godwin wrote libretti for ten of Starer's musical compositions.\n\nBy 1976 Godwin was a successful writer and novelist who had published three books: \"The Perfectionists\", \"Glass People\", and \"The Odd Woman\". \"The Odd Woman\" was the longest and most widely recognized of the three. Several short stories by Godwin were published in prominent magazines like Harper's Esquire, Ms. and the Paris Review, where she was often featured on the cover. Godwin was awarded grants from the National Endowment for the Arts (1975–76) and the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation (1975–76).\n\nThroughout her career, Godwin worked consistently with her agent, John Hawkins, but worked with several different publishing houses. Godwin's early books were published by Knopf. After the editor for \"The Perfectionists\", David Segal, died suddenly of a heart attack, Robert Gottlieb from Knopf became her editor for her next four books. Godwin credits Gottlieb for much of the success of her early works. Later on, when Godwin's then-recent books were less widely read, \"USA Today\" commented that this could be in part because she was no longer working with Gottlieb. After Knopf, Godwin contracted with Viking, who offered larger advances and more publicity for her books.\n\nDuring the years 1982 to 1991, Godwin produced another collection of short fiction and four more novels. According to \"Publishers Weekly\", it was \"A Mother and Two Daughters\" (1982) and \"A Southern Family\" (1987) that substantially expanded her readership. These novels remained on bestseller lists for an extended period of time. Godwin's earlier works had sold an average of less than 8,000 copies, while \"A Mother and Two Daughters\" sold more than 1.5 million. It was the most popular of Godwin's early works and the first time she had written a narrative from the point-of-view of multiple characters. In 1987, Godwin was awarded the Janet Heidinger Kafka Prize for her work on \"The Southern Family\".\n\nBy the early 2000s, five of Godwin's books had made the New York Times Bestsellers List and three were finalists for the National Book Award.\n\nBy 1999 Godwin had published ten novels. In 2001, Godwin's partner, Robert Starer, died and she began writing a fictional story based on their life called \"Evenings at Five\" that was published two years later. In November 2004 Godwin signed a contract with the publisher Ballantine Books for her next four books.\n\nAccording to \"Publishers Weekly\", Godwin had \"achieved a huge degree of success\" and still had many devoted readers, but by 1999 she was \"no longer the draw she once was.\" By 2006 \"The Finishing School\" (1984) was her last major, commercially successful book, which was followed by a drop in readership. According to Godwin, she was \"one of the many authors to be caught in the tumult while [the publishing industry] thrashed about in search of a new business model.\" \"The Los Angeles Times\" said her characters that were progressive working women in the 1970s and 1980s, were now considered \"tame\" in a modern context.\n\n\"Kirkus Reviews\" said Godwin had \"a couple of subpar efforts,\" until publishing \"Queen of the Underworld\" in 2006. \"Flora\" (2013) became one of her better selling books. Godwin also authored an autobiography, \"Publishing\" that appeared in 2015. The \"Los Angeles Times\" said her auto-biography was a \"preemptive strike\" after she was approached by an independent biographer. As of 2015, Godwin's published works have included 14 novels, two collections of short stories, three non-fiction works, and ten libretti.\n\nAccording to \"The Intellectual in Twentieth-Century Southern Literature\", Godwin was unusual in that she was a popular novelist that was also working in academia. Godwin taught at the University of Illinois Center for Advanced Studies from 1971 to 1972. During her time as an author, she was also a lecturer at the Iowa Writers' Workshop (1972 to 1973), Vassar College (1977), and Columbia University (1978/1981). She acted as chair of the fiction panel for the National Book Awards in 1986 and 2008. In 1989, Godwin also founded a small publishing house called St. Hilda's Press. It published religious texts not printed by more commercialized publishers. She later became a Distinguished Alumna of the University of North Carolina and the University of Iowa.\n\nMost of Godwin's works are based on themes or events taken from her own life. The characters, settings and narratives vary from novel-to-novel, but common topics have included family, the position of women in society and relationships, a woman's artistic and career pursuits, and the role of religious faith. According to \"The Intellectual in Twentieth-Century Southern Literature\", Godwin's characters \"struggle intellectually to navigate the mazes of race, class, gender, family, faith and religion.\" According to \"Contemporary Literary Criticism\", \"she writes about issues pertaining to women - male-female roles, marriage, family, personal freedom, self-concept, and self-actualization.\" Author Jane Hill said Godwin's books are about co-existing with authorities, the role of decision-making in life, careers as an artist, and the consequences of thwarted ambition. Much of her emphasis is on the concept of the self and one's struggles with society.\n\nMost of the academic analysis of Godwin's work focuses on challenges her characters have as women. According to \"Contemporary Fiction Writers of the South\", a typical protagonist in Godwin's novels is a young woman that \"in search of herself, confronts obstacles caused by her family, her lovers, her husband, or her own inanition as she struggles to establish her independence and secure her identity through her work.\" The main character may be personally flawed, then achieve self-reflection or personal growth thanks to the support of their community or a mentor. Main characters often make poor choices, but become a better person, learn to make better decisions and build stronger bonds often as a result of intellectual pursuits. According to critic Anne Cheney, the protagonist may be \"searching for happiness, academic or artistic achievement, love, respect, or, more generally, meaning in life.\"\n\nAccording to Warren French from the University of Wales, Godwin's works are most often seen as having two primary themes: gender roles and southern settings. French said Godwin herself disapproves of being categorized, which she feels creates \"externally imposed limitations\" on the themes she covers. However scholars continue to attempt to put her work into a distinctive literary category. In her early works Godwin was seen as a \"woman\" writer, because her books appealed to a mostly female audience and because she is a woman. After publishing \"A Southern Family\" she began being identified as a southern writer. According to \"The Times\" (London), Godwin has a \"pesky resistance to categorisation\" and she often changes themes even after being commercially successful with one. Academic Lihong Xie said Godwin could be identified with the literary tradition of the Bildungsroman, which focuses on the moral and psychological development of a character. Many other critics posit that a quest for meaning and self-identification are Godwin's primary themes.\n\nOther themes in Godwin's work have included escaping the cultural expectations of becoming a \"southern lady,\" childhood abandonment, depression and suicide, racial discrimination, social class and succeeding without a male companion. Her work has spanned different literary categories, such as realism, fantasy and allegory.\n\nAll of Godwin's books written from 1970 to 1990 are fictional stories based on themes taken from Godwin's life. Her early works focus on women hoping for a relationship with a male companion, but at the same time wanting independence and freedom. The main protagonist is often restricted by family, tradition and patriarchy. Most of Godwin's early works include a prominent mother-daughter relationship as well.\n\nHer first three books, \"The Perfectionists\" (1970), \"Glass People\" (1972) and \"The Odd Woman\" (1974), have protagonists who find that their relationship with a male companion restricts their personal and professional development. The first two books are each about a female character who feels trapped in an unhappy marriage. According to \"Contemporary Southern Writers\", \"unlike fairy tale romances, these novels present a realistic depiction of feminist concerns and struggles.\" Lihong Xie comments that Godwin's protagonists are southern women that \"caught between the ideal of southern womanhood and contemporary feminism, struggle to form a personal identity  ...\"\n\n\"Violet Clay\" (1978) and \"A Mother and Two Daughters\" (1982) are each about an unmarried protagonist's career in a creative profession. In \"A Mother and Two Daughters\" the main character resists the temptation to get married and chooses instead to focus on her work. \"A Mother and Two Daughters\" and \"A Southern Family\" (1987) each depend heavily on a southern setting and employ themes traditionally associated with social problems in the South. Some of their themes include racial discrimination, social-economic class and the cultural differences between generations. Many characters struggle to reduce the gap between the rich and poor or try to break free from a dominant cultural tradition, with mixed success.\n\nIn Godwin's early books, the female protagonists tend to be fearful, passive and repeat their mistakes. The protagonist is often depicted as a victim who has failed to achieve independence and is struggling to form a personal identity that could exist beyond that of their relationship with a male companion. In her next books, Godwin begins to introduce stronger and more independent central characters. \"Violet Clay\" (1978) for example, features a more assertive character than those in prior novels. According to Susan S. Kissel Adams from Northern Kentucky University, Godwin's later characters:\n\ncome to value inclusion and connection over exclusion and isolation in their lives. They seek ways to combine their private and their public selves, open and extend family structures, take political action, and fulfill their social responsibilities  ... In their struggle against southern codes and family structures that retain a powerful hold even in the late twentieth century. Godwin's daughters of the South grow from a state of dependency and arrested development: they begin to embark on mature, adult lives of their own.\n\nAs in her earlier novels, Godwin's work in the 1970s and 1980s still centers mostly on difficulties female characters experienced as women. However, she departs from this theme in \"The Finishing School\" (1984), which is about two women of different generations and the student-mentor relationship between them, rather than their relationship with men. According to Lihong Xie, Godwin's work during this period continues to be about \"the female self\" and a woman's intimate relationships with husbands, fathers and God.\n\nGodwin's books begin to incorporate religious themes starting with \"Father Melancholy's Daughter\" (1991). The novel is told from the perspective of multiple characters, each of whom have a different perspective on religion. \"Father Melancholy's Daughter\" was followed by several books that centered on the Episcopal church and Christian practices. In these novels female and male characters have a more equal influence on the events and plot than in prior novels. Godwin's books neither evangelize nor mock the practices of the Episcopal Church, but rather treat it as a routine aspect of life, or as a subject of intellectual interest. During these years Godwin's books continued to show father figures who have died or are absent. By 1996 two of her books had fathers that died and five had stepfathers that are depicted as intruding on the mother-daughter relationship.\n\nAccording to \"Narrative Magazine\", Godwin transitions from female protagonists who are \"looking for ways to get out of traps and confinements\" to those who make \"interesting or dangerous life choices.\" Some of Godwin's later works depict successful, but unconventional marriages. In \"The Good Husband\" (1994) both partners accept the wife's career as having a priority over the husband's. \"The Good Husband\" is also a return to the theme of marriage that is typical of some of Godwin's earlier works. According to \"Contemporary Southern Writers\", \"The Good Husband\" \"explores the dying experience.\" Godwin also published several non-fiction works based on her own life during this period.\n\nGodwin's short story collections \"Dream Children\" and \"Mr. Bedford and the Muses\" focus on themes similar to those in her novels, but also incorporate dreams and myth. They tend to be less auto-biographical than her novels. According to philosopher Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka, Godwin's approach to dream-worlds is radical, because the dream is incorporated into the characters' real-world experiences. Her characters compare their real and dream worlds to each other in order to \"negotiate their sense of destiny.\" She said \"Dream Children\" challenges the distinction between reality and dream experiences, where the dream does not \"violate one's theory of reality.\"\n\n\"USA Today\" said that the subjects covered in \"Unfinished Desires\" (2010) include \"Mean girls. Lesbian kisses. Learning disabilities. Domestic violence. Alcoholism. [and] Roman Catholic nuns.\" According to \"The Times\" (London), \"Flora\" (2013) \"encompasses most of the themes that have preoccupied [Godwin] throughout her career.\" It takes place in the South in the mid-1940s in the mountains, where a widowed schoolmaster raises his ten-year-old daughter. In a 2015 interview, Godwin says that her work has become less \"angry\". She said her early works showed a frustration with not being heard, and that her later books focuses on her enemies. Now she's working to understand \"the villains' villains.\"\n\nBy 1980 Godwin's writing had become the subject of essays, book chapters and other literary analysis from academic critics. According to \"The Washington Post\", \"Gail Godwin has been accused of not being able to decide whether she's a popular or a literary writer, but she's certainly accrued enough bestsellers and literary honors to claim both identities.\" Much of the scholarly attention on her works comes from those critics with an interest in southern or feminist authors. According to \"Contemporary Fiction Writers of the South\", Godwin's books have been \"widely and favorably reviewed\". \"Contemporary American Women Fiction Writers\" states that \"although some reviews of her work have been mixed  ... her books are accomplished works of fiction, if not masterpieces.\"\n\n\"Contemporary Literary Criticism\" said \"most of her books are characterized as well-written, well executed, readable, witty, and having vivid, believable characters. Godwin is typically praised for having convincing plots, witty, intelligent characters and that she has strong narrative skill. She has been criticized, in particular in response to \"The Good Husband\", for excessive symbolism. According to the \"Dictionary of Literary Biography\", Godwin is \"thoughtful and philosophical\", but she is often critiqued for authoring fiction that is so closely representative of her own life.\n\n\"The Odd Woman\", \"The Finishing School\" and \"Southern Family\" received overall positive reviews, while \"Violet Clay\" and \"The Good Husband\" received more negative reviews. According to \"The Boston Globe\", \"Flora\" was one of Godwin's best books.\n\nThis list of works has been taken mostly from Gail Godwin's entry in the Dictionary of Literary Biography.\nGail Godwin lives in a large house in the mountains in Woodstock, New York. She does most of her writing in her study at home. As of 1999, she was swimming every day. She has a southern accent. Godwin is an Episcopalian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54056845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54056845", "title": "Genocide education", "text": "Genocide education\n\nGenocide education refers to education about patterns and trends in the phenomenon of genocide and/or about the causes, nature and impact of particular instances of genocide.\n\nRecent Rwanda history curricula explicitly stipulate the teaching of the 1994 genocide of the Tutsi, notably through the comparison \"of different genocides\" with a view to \"suggest ways of preventing genocide from happening again in Rwanda and elsewhere\". A comparative approach has been adopted, which is clearly reflected in the 2015 Curriculum for Sustainable Development.\n\nThe competence-based curriculum framework mentions \"genocide studies\" as a cross-cutting issue, therefore introducing the study of genocide in a variety of subject areas. It further states that \"Rwandan children should know about the genocide perpetrated against the Tutsi alongside the Holocaust and other genocides\".\n\nTeaching about the 1994 genocide of the Tutsi in Rwanda, and thereby introducing genocide studies in history textbooks and curricula, has been part of a gradual process to promote national unity and peace. This process included a moratorium on some chapters of Rwandan history in 1995, which ended when considerations pertaining to the 1994 genocide were introduced into the 2008 history curriculum. Recent approaches also built on the acknowledgement of the disastrous effects of pre-genocide Rwandan education, which contributed to discrimination against the Tutsi population and constituted a backdrop for the ideology that led to the genocide. In contrast, introducing the history of the genocide in the education system was a recognition that schools, in addition to non-formal and informal learning environments, are crucial venues to impart knowledge about the genocide and to overcome silence, denial and conflict. These changes also correspond to a deeper reflection on appropriate pedagogies to help learners grapple with the legacy of the genocide. According to Jean-Damascène Gasanabo, director-general of the Research and Documentation Center on Genocide at the National Commission for the Fight against Genocide (CNLG) in Kigali, \"This change in the curriculum has been supplemented by a shift to transform learning from one based on standard rote memorization to one that encourages discussion and a spirit of critical thinking and analysis. This approach identi es the student as an active participant in the learning experience, not merely a silent recipient of history as 'evangelical speech'.\"\n\nThe Kigali Genocide Memorial and Aegis Trust, in partnership with other Rwandan organizations such as the Educators' Institute for Human Rights, has developed education programmes and in-service training to help teachers build capacity and acquire historical knowledge to deal with genocides and mass atrocities. Such programmes emphasize \"critical thinking, empathy and individual moral responsibility.\" They explore historical examples, primarily the genocide of the Jewish people and the genocide of the Tutsi, through a \"Sustainable Peace Model/Framework\" which seeks to link genocide education (looking back) to genocide prevention (looking into the present) to peace-building (looking forward).\n\n\"Genocide education\" deals with the phenomenon of genocide, while education about the Holocaust focuses above all on the causes and dynamics of the genocide of the Jewish people and responses to it. However, both fields are increasingly interconnected. Genocide studies – referring to academic research about the broader trends and patterns of genocide and mass atrocities – and genocide education have become more widespread in universities and schools, as genocide and mass atrocities are recurring phenomena in the world. The studies have expanded to examine theories about how and why genocide happens. Education about the particular event of the Holocaust includes considerations about the concept, planning and implementation of that genocide, and can prompt reflections as to how what we learn about the Holocaust can contribute to the prevention of mass atrocities today.\n\nScholars and educators are increasingly recognizing and exploring gender as a dimension of genocide and other mass atrocities. Educators may wish to consider how gender influences, affects, and manifests itself in genocide, from the strategies of its perpetrators to the experiences of its victims.\n\nHistorically, most atrocities have been committed by men. Genocide scholar Adam Jones, however, notes that \"when women, along with men, are mobilized, forced, encouraged, allowed to participate in genocide and other atrocious violence, they generally display no more reluctance than (often reluctant) males\". Wendy Lower, for example, studied the role of German women during the Third Reich and found that relative to their role in German society and their professional positions, women participated in the perpetration of crimes \"as zealous administrators, robbers, tormentors, and murderers\".\n\nGender can shape and dictate both the experiences of victims and the methods perpetrators employ when committing genocide and mass atrocities. Roles often relegated to the female sphere can influence the fates of women. As traditional caregivers, for example, women who provide direct care for children or elderly relatives may inadvertently hinder or eliminate their own ability to survive genocidal violence. At the same time, perpetrators often differently persecute men and women. During the Holocaust, pregnant women and mothers of small children were consistently labeled \"incapable of work\". Consequently, women often found themselves among the first sent to the gas chambers. Aggressors' intent on a symbolic and physical disruption of group reproduction often target women and girls for sexualized violence, such as mass rape or forced sterilization. Cases also exist in which boys and men have been systematically sexually victimized. Transgressions of gender norms such as homosexuality and transsexuality have also served as grounds for the targeting of both men and women.\n"}
{"id": "11132916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11132916", "title": "Global village", "text": "Global village\n\nThe term global village represents the simplifying of the whole world into one village through the use of electronic media. \"Global village\" is also a term to express the constituting relationship between economics and other social sciences throughout the world. The term was coined by Canadian media theorist, Marshall McLuhan, and popularized in his books \"\" (1962) and \"Understanding Media\" (1964) McLuhan changed the way the world thought about media and technology ever since his use of the word in his book . McLuhan described how electric technology has contracted the globe into a village because of the instantaneous movement of information from every quarter to every point at the same time.\n\nMarshall McLuhan, who was a Canadian philosopher, invented the word in the 1960s. McLuhan based his concept on the idea that cultures would focus on communicating and move towards personal interactions.The term global village means different parts of the world that form one community that’s linked by the internet. Other forms of communication such as Skype allow us to communicate and connect with others, especially others in other countries, easier. \nThe new reality of the digital age has implications for forming new socially meaningful structures within the context of culture. Interchanging messages, stories, opinions, posts, and videos through channels on telecommunication pathways can cause miscommunication-- especially through different cultures. Contemporary analysts question the causes of changes in community. Often they speculate about whether or not the consequences of these changes could lead to some new sociological structure. Most of them have pointed out that the increased velocity of transactions has fostered international density, making social networks a catalyst for social change.\n\nAcross the global village people have reached out and transcended their neighborhoods. They are involved in a complex community of networks stretching across cities, nations, oceans, and governments. Yet at the same time the increasing communications with friends on social media may also increase the density of interconnections within already existing social clusters. The global village's implications on sociological structures are yet to be fully realized. Not only does multimedia have the ability to impact individuals differently for cultural reasons, but messages also affect people due to their religion, politics, beliefs, business, money etc. The time in which messages are received also affects how a message is understood.\n\nIn Marshall McLuhan’s time, the global village was already apparent. It was already a comprehensive and seminal way to grasp what was happening to the world at large at any time (and correspondingly, what should be done with this in mind): \"The global village absolutely ensures maximal disagreement on all points\" (McLuhan: Hot & Cool. New York: The New American Library, p. 272).\n\nDuring the primitive years, people primarily stayed in tune with the simultaneous mode of their perception and thinking. Today human society struggles neurologically, with the simultaneous mode taking the upper hand once again. \nOur brains are constantly adapting and morphing to the modifications of technological advancements. Through technology, the creation of social media allows people to constantly comment on each other's posts as well as creating them to share with the multi-media global world. 55% of teens possess a social media account. Social media has connected people with jobs that they couldn’t have received before because of their geographic location. New social medias have connected the world so that users can learn more about cultures different from their own through interactions on social media as well as maintaining relationships from opposing countries.\n\nPeople use technology to fit into a digital community to which they aren't physically connected, but mentally connected. Each social media platform acts as a digital home for individuals, allowing people to express themselves through the global village. A Review of General Semantics argues that media ecology and new media have expanded who has the ability to create and view media texts. Since mass media began, it has called for the westernization of the world, hence the global village. Without the mass media in effect countries like India or Turkey wouldn’t be living American lifestyle because they wouldn’t have the knowledge of what the acquisitions of the American nation constitute. Since most of the developing countries acquired the news and entertainment from developed nations like the U.S, the information received is biased in favor of developed nations which connects the world in similarities within the media.\n\nOn the Internet, physical distance is even less of a hindrance to the real-time communicative activities of people. Social Spheres are greatly expanded by the openness of the web and the ease at which people can search for online communities and interact with others who share the same interests and concerns. According to McLuhan, the enhanced \"electric speed in bringing all social and political functions together in a sudden implosion has heightened human awareness of responsibility to an intense degree.\" Increased speed of communication and the ability for people to read about, spread, and react to global news quickly, forces us to become more involved with others from various social groups and countries around the world and to be more aware of our global responsibilities. Similarly, web-connected computers enable people to link their web sites together.\n\nNo chapter in \"Understanding Media\", later books, contains the idea that the global village and the electronic media create unified communities. In an interview with Gerald Stearn, McLuhan says that it never occurred to him that uniformity and tranquility were the properties of the global village. McLuhan argued that the global village ensures maximal disagreement on all points because it creates more discontinuity and division and diversity under the increase of the village conditions. The global village is far more diverse.\nAfter the publication of \"Understanding Media\", McLuhan starts using the term \"global theater\" to emphasize the changeover from consumer to producer, from acquisition to involvement, from job holding to role playing, stressing that there is no more community to clothe the naked specialist.\n\n"}
{"id": "27949796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27949796", "title": "Gustave Garcia", "text": "Gustave Garcia\n\nGustave García (February 1, 1837 – June 12, 1925) was an Italian baritone opera singer and singing teacher.\n\nGustave García was born on February 1, 1837 in Milan, Italy, the son of Manuel Patricio Rodríguez García (1805–1906) and the soprano Eugénie Mayer (1818–1880). He made his professional début as an operatic baritone in 1860 at Her Majesty's Theatre in London as Don Giovanni. He married and had a son, baritone Alberto García (1875–1946).\n\nBest known in his second career, as a teacher, in 1880 he became a professor of singing at the Royal Academy of Music, where he worked till 1890. He also taught at the Guildhall School of Music from 1883 to 1910, and from 1884 at the Royal College of Music until his illness and final retirement. His pupils at the Royal College included Martyn Green. He died on June 12, 1925.\n\n"}
{"id": "9839890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9839890", "title": "Guy Stanton Ford", "text": "Guy Stanton Ford\n\nGuy Stanton Ford (May 9, 1873 – December 29, 1962) was the sixth president of the University of Minnesota. Ford had originally come to the University of Minnesota in 1913, serving as the dean of the Graduate School and as a professor of history. He became president in 1938 after the sudden death of Lotus Coffman. He left the University of Minnesota in November 1941 to become the executive secretary of the American Historical Association in Washington, D.C. and Editor of American Historical Review (until 1953).\n\nFord's doctoral thesis (Columbia University, 1903) was entitled \"Hanover and Prussia, 1795–1803. A Study in Neutrality\". Before he went to the University of Minnesota, he was faculty member of the Yale University and the University of Illinois.\n\nThe annual Guy Stanton Ford Memorial Lecture is a public lecture by a distinguished scholar in any of many different fields.\n\nGuy Santon Ford papers, University Archives, University of Minnesota - Twin Cities.\n"}
{"id": "28216395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28216395", "title": "HawkQuest", "text": "HawkQuest\n\nHawkQuest, founded in 1986 by Kin Quitugua, is an environmental education organization based in Parker, Colorado, which uses participatory lectures including live raptors to help people \"understand and appreciate the interaction of wild living things in their natural environment.\"\n\nHawkQuest has partnered with Xcel Energy to create classroom programs that use the bird cams deployed by the energy company.\n\nKin Quitugua, master falconer and founder of HawkQuest, was born in Guam and moved to Colorado with his family when he was young. In college, he met master falconer Rick Cole, who took him on as an apprentice. After becoming a master falconer himself, he founded HawkQuest to teach others about nature with the help of his birds.\n\nAs of 2010, HawkQuest had 28 individual eagles, falcons, owls, and hawks. The 15 species represented are bald eagle, golden eagle, American kestrel, peregrine falcon, prairie falcon, barred owl, burrowing owl, barn owl, great horned owl, spectacled owl, Eurasian eagle-owl, Eastern screech owl, ferruginous hawk, red-tailed hawk, and Harris's hawk. All of these birds are either injured or have been imprinted to humans and would not be able to survive in the wild.\n\nHawkQuest provides interactive lectures to groups of all ages, bringing the birds to schools, nature centers, and other venues. HawkQuest raptors can be seen at close range at events such as Native American markets, renaissance festivals, educational symposiums, and craft fairs. Their classroom-in-the-wild program takes students outdoors into the birds' natural environment. They will set up opportunities for bird and photo enthusiasts to photograph the raptors in the wild.\n\nIn 2007, HawkQuest presented their message to almost 1.5 million people in 555 events.\n"}
{"id": "38279836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38279836", "title": "Hen (pronoun)", "text": "Hen (pronoun)\n\nHen () is a gender-neutral personal pronoun in Swedish intended as an alternative to the gender-specific \"hon\" (\"she\") and \"han\" (\"he\"). It can be used when the gender of a person is not known or when it is not desirable to specify them as either a \"she\" or \"he\". The word was first proposed in 1966, and again in 1994, with reference to the Finnish \"hän\", a personal pronoun that is gender-neutral, since Finnish does not have grammatical genders. However, it did not receive widespread recognition until around 2010, when it began to be used in some books, magazines and newspapers, and provoked media debates and controversy over feminism, gender neutrality, and parenting. In July 2014 it was announced that \"hen\" would be included in \"Svenska Akademiens ordlista\", the official glossary of the Swedish Academy.\n\nIt is currently treated as a neologism by Swedish manuals of style. Major newspapers like \"Dagens Nyheter\" have recommended against its usage, though some journalists still use it. The Swedish Language Council has not issued any specific proscriptions against the use of \"hen\", but recommends the inflected forms \"hens\" (\"her(s)/his\") as the possessive form and the object form \"hen\" (\"her/him\") over \"henom\", which also occurs. \"Hen\" has two basic usages: as a way to avoid a stated preference to either gender; or as a way of referring to individuals who are agender, genderqueer, or those who reject the notion of binary gender on ideological grounds.\n\nThe Swedish language has a set of personal pronouns which is more or less identical in form to that of English. The common pronouns used for human beings are either \"han\" (\"he\") or \"hon\" (\"she\"). While Swedish and Danish historically had the same set of three grammatical genders as modern German, with masculine, feminine and neuter, the three-gender system fell out of use from the dialects out of which the respective standard languages were developing sometime in the late Middle Ages. The system contracted so that words of masculine and feminine gender folded into a \"common gender\" while the neuter gender remained. In Swedish, there are two words that would translate to the English pronoun \"it\": \"den\" for common gender words and \"det\" for neuter gender words. Both are gender-neutral in the sense of not referring to male or female, but they are not used to refer to human beings except in specific circumstances.\n\nAttempts to introduce \"hen\" as a gender-neutral pronoun date back to 1966 when linguist Rolf Dunås suggested it in the regional newspaper \"Upsala Nya Tidning\". In 1994, it was again proposed by linguist Hans Karlgren in the national newspaper \"Svenska Dagbladet\" as a practical alternative to more complicated literary alternatives. In 2007, the feminist cultural magazine \"Ful\" became the first periodical to adopt a consistent usage of \"hen\". By 2009, \"Nationalencyklopedin\", the modern standard Swedish encyclopedia, had created an article about \"hen\" describing it as a \"suggested gender-neutral personal pronoun instead of \"hon\" and \"han\"\".\n\nIn January 2012, the children's book \"Kivi och Monsterhund\" (\"Kivi and Monster Dog\") by Jesper Lundqvist was published. The book consistently used \"hen\" instead of \"han\" or \"hon\" and sparked a lively media debate. In the February 2012 issue of \"Nöjesguiden\", a Stockholm-based arts and entertainment monthly, \"hen\" was used consistently in all texts with the exception of direct quotes. By late 2012, the word had generated so much publicity that \"Hufvudstadsbladet\", Finland's largest Swedish-language newspaper by circulation, declared that \"hen is here to stay\".\n\nIn November 2012, Swedish linguist Per Ledin made a survey of the use of \"hen\" in a corpus of Swedish blogs. His conclusion was that use among bloggers had been rising steadily from 2009 to 2012 and that it should be considered as an established word. However, \"hen\" accounted for just 0.001% of total usage of personal pronouns.\n\nThe airline Norwegian employed the term in an ad campaign in 2012 as a tongue-in-cheek provocation with the slogan \"The businessHEN's airline\". By late 2012, \"hen\" began to see use in official documents in some government agencies. The Court of Appeal for Lower Norrland applied the term in a ruling on official misconduct by a police officer.\n\n\"Hen\" appeared in an official political context for the first time in February 2013 when Swedish Minister for Gender Equality Maria Arnholm used it in a debate in the Riksdag, the Swedish parliament. In commenting on the debate afterwards, Arnholm described the word as \"a practical way of simplifying\" and \"a smart way of developing language\". By 2013, Boden Municipality had adopted manuals of style to be used by their employees in an official context where \"hen\" was recommended \"to avoid repetition of he/she in texts where sex is unclear or where we wish to include both sexes\".\n\nBy early 2014, \"hen\" had become an established term both in traditional media and among bloggers. The language periodical \"Språktidningen\" concluded that the instances of usage had gone from one instance for every 13,000 uses of \"hon/han\" to just under 1 in 300. In late July 2014, the Swedish Academy announced that in April 2015, \"hen\" would be included in \"Svenska Akademiens ordlista\", the most authoritative glossary on the Swedish language. Its entry will cover two definitions: as a reference to individuals belonging to a specified sex or third gender, or where the sex is not known. In May 2015, \"hen\" was introduced in legal text (the driver's license law), in the self-ruling area Åland, a part of Finland which is officially Swedish-speaking.\n\nAlthough the Swedish Language Council, the primary regulatory body of the Swedish language, has not made a specific recommendation against using \"hen\", it does recommend using constructions such as \"När kunden har fått hem varan ska den källsortera emballaget\", \"when the customer has received the merchandise, \"it\" should recycle the packaging\". The existing \"den\" is recommended instead of \"hen\" when referring to human beings in general. The Council also recommends against using the object form \"henom\" (\"her/him\") with the reasoning that it is too similar to \"honom\" (\"him\"), which undermines the gender-neutral intention of the word, and that the case system on which the form is based is a remnant that is no longer used in Swedish; \"hen\" is instead recommended as both the subject and object form (as in \"jag såg hen\"; \"I saw him/her\") while \"hens\" is the recommended possessive form (i.e. \"her(s)/his\").\n\nAfter the use of \"hen\" by the Minister for Gender Equality, and following a meeting of the Speaker of the Riksdag together with party representatives, the Parliament made an official announcement that \"hen\" should not be used in official government documents, but that individual members of parliament are free to use it in spoken debates and written motions.\n\nFrom an early stage, \"hen\" has generated controversy and reactions in media. In 2010, the early use of the word prompted reactions of ridicule and skepticism. Columnist Lisa Magnusson taunted it as a \"mega-feminist piece of poultry\", In early 2012, a series of interviews and articles about the use of \"hen\" in \"Dagens Nyheter\", one of Sweden's leading newspapers, generated widespread debate. Referring to young children as \"hen\" was considered especially controversial, sparking critical reactions from the general public, officials within public daycare and media pundits.\n\nIn September 2012, \"Dagens Nyheter\" issued a ban on the use of \"hen\" in its article on the advice of chief editor Gunilla Herlitz. As a reaction to this, journalist and programmer Oivvio Polite created the website dhen.se, a site that mirrored the content of the paper's online edition, but with all instances of \"han\" and \"hon\" replaced with \"hen\". An employee at \"Dagens Nyheter\" reacted by filing a complaint to the police against dhen.se for violating Swedish copyright law, but later retracted his accusation when the newspaper's management proved unwilling to pursue legal action.\n\nThe most controversial aspect of the use of \"hen\" has been vis-à-vis young children, especially in public schools. Egalia, a preschool in Södermalm, an upper middle-class borough in central Stockholm, had been at the forefront of gender-neutral pedagogy, and quickly adopted the use of \"hen\". This policy sparked debate and controversy in Sweden and received widespread attention in international media in 2011–2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26702356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26702356", "title": "Ingram Olkin", "text": "Ingram Olkin\n\nIngram Olkin (July 23, 1924 – April 28, 2016) was a professor emeritus and chair of statistics and education at Stanford University and the Stanford Graduate School of Education. He is known for developing statistical analysis for evaluating policies, particularly in education, and for his contributions to meta-analysis, statistics education, multivariate analysis, and majorization theory.\n\nOlkin was born in 1924 in Waterbury, Connecticut. He received a B.S. in mathematics at the City College of New York, an M.A. from Columbia University, and his Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina. Olkin also studied with Harold Hotelling. Olkin's advisor was S. N. Roy and his Ph.D. thesis was \"On distribution problems in multivariate analysis\" submitted in 1951.\n\nOlkin died from complications of colorectal cancer at his home in Palo Alto, California on April 28, 2016, aged 91.\n\nOlkin was awarded the first Elizabeth Scott Award from the American Statistical Association for his achievements in supporting women in statistics.\n\nIn 1962 he was elected as a Fellow of the American Statistical Association.\nIn 1984, he was President of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics. Olkin is a Guggenheim, Fulbright, and Lady Davis Fellow, with an honorary doctorate from De Montfort University.\n\nOlkin has written many books including \"Statistical methods for meta-analysis\", \"Probability theory\", and \"Education in a Research University\". Olkin's coauthors include S. S. Shrikhande and Larry V. Hedges. Olkin has written two books with Albert W. Marshall, \"Inequalities: Theory of Majorization and its Applications\" (1979) and \"Life distributions: Structure of nonparametric, semiparametric, and parametric families\" (2007). In nonparametric statistics and decision theory, Olkin wrote \"Selecting and ordering populations: A new statistical methodology\" with Jean Dickinson Gibbons and Milton Sobel (1977, 1999).\n\nIngram was Editor of the \"Annals of Mathematical Statistics\" and served as the first editor of the \"Annals of Statistics,\" both published by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics. He was a primary force in the founding of the \"Journal of Educational Statistics,\" which is published with the American Statistical Association. Olkin was also an editor with the mathematics journal, \"Linear Algebra and its Applications\", and has been active in supporting a series of international conferences on matrix theory, linear algebra, and statistics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53839668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53839668", "title": "Jirnexu", "text": "Jirnexu\n\nJirnexu Sdn Bhd (Jirnexu) is a Southeast Asian financial technology startup headquartered in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The company provides technology to help financial institutions manage different stages of the customer journey: marketing, acquisition, fulfilment and retention.\n\nJirnexu provides banks, insurance and telecommunications companies with a full stack technology solution to help them manage the customer lifecycle from marketing through retention. With a Southeast Asian focus, the company currently has both business-to-business (B2B) and business-to-consumer (B2C) operations in Malaysia and Indonesia.\n\nCompanies working with Jirnexu include Citibank, HSBC, Standard Chartered, Alliance Bank, AEON, AIA, Zurich, Manulife, U4Life, BSN, RHB, and U Mobile.\n\nJirnexu was formerly known as Saving Plus.\n\nIn 2012, former Citi banker Yuen Tuck Siew, together with James Barnes founded RinggitPlus.com, a comparison and application website for financial products in Malaysia. The website was officially launched in 2013 to allow comparison of and application for credit cards, home loans, car loans, investments and insurance schemes.\n\nIn 2014, RinggitPlus.com merged with SaveMoney.my, an online portal that provides information on different credit cards, car loans, phone, travel and shopping in Malaysia. SaveMoney.my was founded by Liew Ooi Hann and Lucas Ooi in 2012. Following the merger, Saving Plus Sdn Bhd was incorporated while RinggitPlus.com continued to operate as a comparison website.\n\nIn 2016, Saving Plus rebranded itself to Jirnexu; the name means “prosper” in Maltese. The company launched XpressApply, an online application and CRM technology as part of its business to provide financial institutions a channel to reach consumers digitally by handling banking product applications online.\n\nSeveral venture capital firms have funded Jirnexu, including SBI Group, Celebes Capital, NTT DoCoMo Ventures, Nullabor, Tuas Capital Partners, Anfield Equities, Digital Media Partners, Gobi Partners, OSK Ventures International Berhad and private investor Steve Melhuish. In October 2017, Jirnexu reported having total funding of US$8.0 million.\n\nThe financial products available for comparison on the websites include loans, credit cards, mortgages, saving accounts and insurance plans. 25% of the existing products on RinggitPlus.com are Shariah-compliant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46220198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46220198", "title": "Jonathan Blum (writer, born 1967)", "text": "Jonathan Blum (writer, born 1967)\n\nJonathan Blum is an American writer.\n\nHe was born in Philadelphia on June 3, 1967, grew up in Miami, Florida and currently lives in Los Angeles, California.\n\nBlum graduated from UCLA and the Iowa Writers' Workshop.\nHe has taught fiction writing at The University of Iowa and at Drew University.\nHe has published short stories, essays, poems, and a novella.\n\nBlum is the author of \"Last Word\", a novella, named one of 2013's \"best books to give as gifts\" by Iowa Public Radio.\n\"Last Word\", brought out by independent publishing house Rescue Press, won critical notice from such journals as \"The Iowa Review\", \"Heavy Feather Review\", and \"Pank\". It was also reviewed in the Jewish Book Council book review and by \"The Writing University\" In November 2013, \"Last Word\" was an Editor's Pick at NewPages. \"Last Word\" was also on the Small Press Distribution fiction best seller list for six months, November 2013 - April 2014.\n\nBlum’s short stories have appeared in The Carolina Quarterly, Green Mountains Review, Gulf Coast (magazine), New York Stories, Northwest Review, Other Voices, Playboy, Sonora Review, and Zaum.\n\nBlum has won the Michener-Copernicus Society of America literary award, the Playboy Magazine College Fiction Contest, a Helene Wurlitzer Foundation fellowship, and a Hawthornden fellowship.\n\nThe personal essay \"May Be Habit Forming\" was a Notable Essay in Best American Essays 2000, edited by Robert Atwan and Alan Lightman.\n\n"}
{"id": "43327676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43327676", "title": "June Yap", "text": "June Yap\n\nJune Yap is the Director of Curatorial, Programmes and Publications at the Singapore Art Museum. She was formerly Guggenheim UBS MAP Curator (South and Southeast Asia), Deputy Director and Curator of the Institute of Contemporary Arts Singapore, and curating independently. During her residency at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, as part of the Guggenheim UBS MAP Global Art Initiative, she curated the exhibition ‘No Country: Contemporary Art for South and Southeast Asia’. In 2011, Yap curated the Singapore pavilion at the 54th Venice Biennale, featuring work by Singaporean artist Ho Tzu Nyen, 'The Cloud of Unknowing'. She has also curated exhibitions for the Center for Contemporary Art in Tel Aviv, Institut für Auslandsbeziehungen (ifa) in Stuttgart and Berlin, and the National University of Singapore Museum, amongst others. She received her MA in Fine Art at the University of Melbourne and her Ph.D. in Cultural Studies at the National University of Singapore. She is the author of \"Retrospective: A Historiographical Aesthetic in Contemporary Singapore and Malaysia\" (Petaling Jaya: SIRD, 2016).\n\n"}
{"id": "36670091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36670091", "title": "Kristian Løken", "text": "Kristian Løken\n\nKristian Rikardsen Løken (31 July 1884March 1961) was a highly decorated Norwegian military officer who served in the Belgian \"Force Publique\" from 1907 to 1917, fighting German colonial forces in East Africa from 1914 to 1917, and went on to command a Norwegian Army infantry brigade during the 1940 Norwegian Campaign of the Second World War.\n\nIn 1943, Løken was one of 1,100 Norwegian officers arrested and sent as prisoners-of-war to Germany, only being released after the German capitulation in 1945.\n\nKristian Løken was born in the town of Elverum in Hedmark county, Norway. He was the son of smallholder Rikard Løken (1845–1909) and Gurine Syversen (1852–1902). Kristian had an older brother, Halvor (born 8 March 1876), who also sought a military career. He attended the upper section of the Norwegian Military Academy from 1903, graduating as an infantry officer in 1906. That same year he took his examen artium.\n\nAfter graduating, Løken was posted as a first lieutenant to the 1st Akershus Brigade. In 1910 he achieved a permanent position in the Norwegian infantry. He was transferred to the 5th Brigade in 1911 and to the 2nd Brigade on 1 October 1912.\n\nLøken was declared supernumerary soon after graduation, and granted leave from the Norwegian Army in 1907. He then entered the service of the \"Force Publique\" in the Congo Free State. He would have three periods of service in the Congo in the coming ten years.\n\nLøken was among a sizeable number of Norwegian junior officers who sought foreign service after being unable to gain paid officers positions in Norway. The Norwegian Armed Forces had trained a large number of officers in the lead-up to the 1905 dissolution of the union between Norway and Sweden, officers that were no longer required once the crisis between the two countries had settled.\n\nAlong with other Norwegian officers, Løken was shipped out of Kristiania in March 1907. His brother, then army captain Halvor Løken, bid him farewell at the docks with the words \"It's a comfort to know that ill weeds never wither\" (Norwegian: \"\"), in reference to the unhealthy and dangerous conditions then to be found in the Congo Free State.\n\nLøken's group of officers first underwent a three-month colonial training course in Brussels, Belgium, before being shipped to the Congo. During his service in the Congo, Løken would periodically receive renewed permission from the Norwegian authorities to remain in \"Force Publique\" service. Initially given command of a \"Force Publique\" company, Løken eventually became a battalion commander in the Belgian Congo. Løken was one 21 Norwegians to attain the rank of \"Commandant\" in the \"Force Publique\".\n\nHe remained in \"Force Publique\" service after Leopold II of Belgium gave up his personal control of the territory in 1908 and transferred it to the Belgian state. Løken's first tour in the Congo lasted until 1910, when he returned to Norway. He went back to the Congo in 1911, staying until 1913, and had a final tour from 1914 to 1917. During his final years in the Belgian Congo, Løken saw action as first a company commander and later a battalion commander in the First World War East African Campaign, fighting the German colonial forces commanded by General Paul von Lettow-Vorbeck. Amongst the battles in German East Africa where Løken fought was that at Ruakadigi in present-day Rwanda in January 1916.\n\nKristian Løken left the \"Force Publique\" and the Congo in 1917 and returned to Norway on 12 November 1917. Due to his years spent in the Congo he was affectionately nicknamed \"Kongo-Løken\" by his Norwegian friends and colleagues. During his final years of life, Løken received a pension from the Belgian state for his \"Force Publique\" service.\n\nReturning to regular Norwegian Army service, Løken was promoted to the rank of captain in May 1918. Following his promotion, he assumed command of the 4th Company of the 4th Infantry Regiment, a command he continued to hold until 1930. In 1918 he attended a hand grenade course, in 1919 the Norwegian infantry shooting school, in 1921 a machine gun course and in 1928 a tactical command course. From 1926 onwards he served on occasion as an instructor at the shooting school. From 1929 to 1931 he commanded the First Company of the Norwegian Royal Guards. In the period 1932–1933 he led the Norwegian Military Academy. He attained the rank of major in 1933, and colonel in 1939. From 1933 to 1939 he served with the 6th Infantry Regiment in Hønefoss. In the inter-war years Løken wrote three articles for the military journal \"Norsk Militært Tidsskrift\", one in 1927 on the subject of basic military training and two in 1936 on Norwegians serving with the \"Force Publique\" in the First World War East African Campaign.\n\nIn addition to his military career, Løken worked for the Office of the Auditor General of Norway from 1920 to 1923. After his years at the Auditor General, Løken spent a year in France in 1923–1924, teaching Norwegian students at the Lycée Pierre-Corneille in Rouen, Normandy. He had been a state authorised French language translator in Norway since 1920.\n\nOn 17 January 1931, Kristian Løken married the Brandval-born Guldborg Noer (born 3 July 1886), the daughter of forest owner Arne Noer and Thea Hokaasen. The couple had no children.\n\nBy the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939, Løken was in command of the 14th Infantry Regiment in Nordland county, a position he had held since 17 January 1939, when he replaced Colonel Carl Gustav Fleischer, who went on to command the 6th Division with the rank of major general.\n\nOn 16 December 1939, Løken assumed command of Norwegian 6th Brigade, after the brigade's previous commander Colonel Wilhelm Faye had been appointed chief of defence for Finnmark county following the outbreak of the Winter War between Finland and the Soviet Union. Colonel Løken was also appointed chief of defence for the mainland of Troms county in Northern Norway. In this command Løken carried out brigade-sized field exercises to prepare his troops for potential combat operations. Løken was replaced as commander of the 14th Infantry Regiment by Lieutenant Colonel Thoralf Nummedal. By April 1940, Løken was temporarily in command of the 6th Division's officer cadets, while these were deployed on winter exercises. Løken's headquarters were located at Bardu in Troms.\n\nFollowing the invasion of Norway and the German attack on Narvik on 9 April 1940, by 3rd Mountain Division troops led by \"Generaloberst\" Eduard Dietl, Løken was responsible for carrying out the Norwegian mobilization in Troms. The first task Løken carried out, in addition to the mobilization, was using the forces initially available to him to block the German forces at Narvik from advancing into Troms. Maintaining control of the central army base Setermoen was vital for the Norwegian mobilization. The forces under Løken's direct command when the Germans invaded were an infantry battalion, a mountain artillery battalion and assorted support troops. In the evening of 8 April, Colonel Løken had been ordered to send his infantry battalion and a motorized artillery battery to Narvik to defend the town, but the transfer of forces was pre-empted by the German landing. In maintaining a defensive posture with almost his entire force during the mobilization stage, Løken came into disagreement with the top leadership of the 6th Division, which wanted a swift counter-attack against the Germans as soon as possible. Despite not mounting an immediate counter-attack, Løken did move troops forward to blocking positions further south than planned, as he saw it as important to stop the German advance in the Gratangen area. Colonel Løken's more cautious approach to warfare lead to a deterioration of his relationship with the more offensive division commander, Carl Gustav Fleischer. On 19 April, Løken reported that the morale of the opposing German forces seemed to be faltering, and that most of the Germans appeared to be \"below average\" at skiing.\n\nAfter completing the mobilization in his area of responsibility and stopping the German advances into Troms, Colonel Løken was in overall command of the early counter-attacks carried out in late April 1940 by the 6th Brigade against the German forces in the Gratangen area. During this time, Løken first had his headquarters at Kroken in Salangsdalen in Troms, before it moved forward to Fossbakken in Lavangen. Løken personally commanded the central axis of the failed first Norwegian advance at Gratangen. During the attack the 6th Brigade greatly outnumbered the German defenders, with two infantry battalions with artillery support mounting a direct attack against the German positions on Lapphaugen, while another two battalions made a flank march to cut off the defenders. The frontal attack failed after Løken had hesitated in attacking and sent his units against strong German positions in a disorganized and uncoordinated manner. While the main attack failed, the flank march of the 1st Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment was counter-attacked by the Germans, the Norwegians suffering heavy losses and being routed. After the failed initial offensive, Løken severely criticized the commander of the 1st Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment, Major Nils Christoffer Bøckman, for having bypassed Løken's brigade command in order to receive permission to advance directly from the 6th Division, exposing his unit to counter-attack. Løken's orders to the battalion had been to under no circumstance move down into the Gratangen valley, but stay on defensible ground.\n\nOn 29 April 1940, the 6th Division was reorganized into two weak brigades, the three-battalion strong 6th Brigade under Colonel Løken and the slightly smaller 7th Brigade under Colonel Wilhelm Faye. While the 6th Brigade was to follow a generally mountainous advance route against the Germans, the 7th was to attack along the coast in cooperation with French expeditionary forces. The 6th Brigade carried out a hard-fought mountain campaign over the coming weeks, pushing the Germans southwards along the Swedish border.\n\nDuring the advance ski patrols reported in late April to Colonel Løken that the mountainous Kuberg Plateau, in the advance route of the brigade, was unoccupied by the Germans. Failure on the part of Løken to act on this information and seize the plateau allowed the Germans to occupy and fortify the feature on 7 May 1940, requiring heavy fighting a week later before they were dislodged.\n\nIn May 1940, Løken was relieved of command of the 6th Brigade, being replaced by the Lieutenant Colonel Ole Berg. Colonel Løken was instead appointed temporary chief of the 6th District Command (covering Northern Norway) on 7 May 1940, replacing Colonel Lars Mjelde, who had taken sick. The appointment was formally confirmed by royal resolution on 31 May 1940, at a meeting of the King and Cabinet at Storsteinnes in Balsfjord, Troms. According to General Otto Ruge's memoirs, the replacement of Løken as a field commander was motivated by a wish on the side of the commander of the 6th Division, General Carl Gustav Fleischer, to have a \"young and aggressive\" brigade commander. Following his appointment, Lieutenant Colonel Berg led the 6th Brigade in successful offensive actions against the Germans.\n\nThe main task of the 6th District Command, which Løken led for the remaining month of the Norwegian Campaign, was to coordinate the efforts of the civilian authorities in Northern Norway in support of the needs of the Norwegian front line forces. During Løken's time in command, the 6th District Command was initially based in Harstad, then later at Moen in Målselv, Troms.\n\nOn 10 June 1940, the forces in Northern Norway capitulated, a ceasefire having been in place since 24:00 on 9 June. Despite having been on the offensive until 8 June, the Norwegian troops were ordered to capitulate after the Allies had pulled out of Norway. Before releasing the Norwegian officers from captivity, the Germans demanded that each gave their word of honour not to participate in further resistance. Following the Norwegian capitulation, Colonel Løken worked on maintaining order and calm in Northern Norway in the transition phase to German occupation. Løken had been made the acting commander of the 6th Division in the demobilization phase, retaining a 10-man force of armed military police under his command until 27 July 1940. The military police officers worked on returning requisitioned civilian vehicles and organizing military depots. Once the tasks in connection with the demobilization of the Norwegian forces in the north were completed, Løken returned to his home in Mosjøen.\n\nIn mid-1941 Løken moved to Oslo. In the period March 1942 to July 1943 he worked in Oslo's civil air defence.\n\nIn August 1943, the German occupying authorities carried out mass arrests of 1,100 Norwegian officers, suspecting the officer class of supporting the Norwegian resistance movement. Colonel Kristian Løken was arrested on 16 August 1943 and given prisoner number 913.\n\nHe was first imprisoned at Oflag XXI-C in Schildberg in the German-annexed \"Reichsgau Wartheland\". While interned at Oflag XXI-C, Løken shared a room with Colonel Johannes Schiøtz, with whom he had attended the Norwegian Military Academy close to four decades earlier. Løken and Schiøtz were roommates at Oflag XXI-C from 6 January 1944 to 19 January 1945, when the Norwegian prisoners were sent on a one-week forced-march on foot and by train to Oflag III-A in Luckenwalde, Germany. On 24 January, five days into the journey, Løken was transferred to a hospital train carriage, suffering from ill health. The Norwegian prisoners of war remained interned at Oflag III-A until their German guards abandoned the camp on 21 April 1945, with Soviet forces arriving the next day. On 10 May 1945, two days after the end of the war in Europe, the Norwegian prisoners left Luckenwalde, reaching Norway in several groups in late May/early June 1945. Løken arrived in Oslo on 28 May 1945.\n\nFrom 1946 to 1954, Løken worked with the General Inspector of the Infantry, and until 1952 as a French language teacher at the Norwegian Military Academy.\n\nIn 1947, Løken also held the position as second in command of District Command North in Northern Norway. According to the Norwegian military intelligence officer Christian Christensen, Løken's relationship with the commander of District Command North, General Arne Dagfin Dahl, was poor. Løken was, according to Christensen, completely relegated from any meaningful tasks by General Dahl. Several years previously, during the 1940 Norwegian Campaign, Løken had been Dahl's commanding officer. On 1 August 1949 he formally retired from the Norwegian Armed Forces, yet continued working for several years under temporary contracts.\n\nColonel Kristian Løken was the vice chairman of the reconstituted Norwegian Congo Veterans' Association (, ). He remained a member until the association was finally disestablished in 1960, being awarded the society's 50 year medal (commemorating the disestablishment of the Congo Free State in 1908) in 1958.\n\nBy 1948, he lived in Oslo, Norway. Kristian Rikardsen Løken died in March 1961, aged 76.\n\nFor his services in the Congo, the Belgian authorities awarded Løken a total of 14 decorations. Among his Belgian honours, Løken was made an Officer of the Order of Leopold II, a Knight of Order of Leopold, a Knight of the Royal Order of the Lion and a Knight of the Order of the Crown with palm, as well as being awarded the Croix de guerre with palm, the Order of the African Star, Silver Medal, the 1914–1917 African Campaigns Commemorative Medal, the Commemorative Medal of the 1914–1918 War, the Inter-Allied Victory Medal 1914–1918, and the Commemorative Medal of Congo.\n\nAfter the end of the Second World War, Colonel Løken was decorated by the Norwegian government with the St. Olav's Medal With Oak Branch, the second highest Norwegian war decoration. He also received the Defence Medal 1940–1945 and the Haakon VII Jubilee Medal 1905–1955. The French government made him an of the and awarded him the .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37492570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37492570", "title": "La plume de ma tante (linguistics)", "text": "La plume de ma tante (linguistics)\n\nLa plume de ma tante () is a phrase in popular culture, attributed to elementary French language instruction (possibly as early as the 19th century) and used as an example of grammatically correct phrases with limited practical application that are sometimes taught in introductory foreign language texts. As \"Life\" magazine said in 1958, \"As every student knows, the most idiotically useless phrase in a beginner's French textbook is \"la plume de ma tante\" (the pen of my aunt).\" The phrase is also used to refer to something deemed completely irrelevant. The term lent its name to the musical play \"La Plume de Ma Tante\", which won a Tony Award in 1959.\n\nThe phrase is also used in teaching and remembering the sounds of the French vowel \"a\"; La plume de ma tante contains three instances of \"a\" that use two different pronunciations. Other limited-use phrases used as pronunciation guides include: Le petit bébé est un peu malade (), which contains six variants of \"e\", and Un bon vin blanc (), which contains four nasal vowels.\n\nThe phrase's French converse is , the first in the original English Assimil guide.\n\nIn the 1973 film \"The Exorcist\", Linda Blair's character utters the phrase as she is possessed. In 1982, Del Boy from the TV show \"Only Fools and Horses\" says it to a policewoman in the first episode of the second season. \n\n"}
{"id": "51400301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51400301", "title": "List of schools of Library and Information Science in India", "text": "List of schools of Library and Information Science in India\n\n"}
{"id": "49762666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49762666", "title": "Maine Question 2, 2016", "text": "Maine Question 2, 2016\n\nMaine Question 2, formally An Act to Establish The Fund to Advance Public Kindergarten to Grade 12 Education, was a citizen-initiated referendum question that appeared on the Maine November 8, 2016 statewide ballot. It sought to increase state aid to public schools by instituting a surcharge of 3% on Maine income taxes for those with income above $200,000 a year. As the Maine Legislature and Governor Paul LePage declined to enact the proposal as written, it appeared on the ballot along with elections for President of the United States, Maine's two U.S. House seats, the Legislature, and various local elections.\n\nThe question was passed by roughly 10,000 votes. The surtax created by the question was repealed as part of state budget negotiations on July 3, 2017 that added $162 million to public education funding from general revenue.\n\nIn 2003, Maine voters passed a referendum calling for the state to pay for 55% of the cost of operating public schools, as a way to reduce pressure on local property taxes. That percentage has never been met. To attempt to reach that target, a group called Stand Up for Students announced that it would start a petition drive to implement a 3% surcharge on Maine income taxes paid on those with incomes above $200,000 a year, estimated to be the top 2% of earners in Maine. It is estimated that such a tax surcharge would result in $110 million a year in revenue.\n\nThe petition drive was carried out by some paid signature gatherers, but was largely done by volunteers from the Maine Education Association and the Maine People's Alliance, a liberal organizing group. MEA members were offered $25 Visa gift cards for every 100 signatures they gathered. The office of Maine Secretary of State Matthew Dunlap certified that the proposal qualified for the ballot on March 2, 2016, stating that 66,849 signatures were valid.\n\nThe exact wording of the question was disputed. Secretary Dunlap proposed the wording \"Do you want to establish a fund to support kindergarten through 12th grade public education by adding a three percent surcharge on Maine taxable income above $200,000?\". During the required public comment period before the wording was finalized, the Governor's Office filed an objection to the proposed wording, stating that the word 'tax' or 'surtax' should be used instead of 'surcharge'. Doing so, they stated, would have been consistent with prior referendums calling for generating revenue. A Stand Up for Students spokesman called the objection an effort to confuse voters, citing tax cuts enacted by Governor Paul LePage. Dunlap had until June 24 to make a final decision, which was only possible to appeal by going to court.\n\nDunlap released the final wording of the question on June 23, which read as \"Do you want to add a 3% tax on individual Maine taxable income above $200,000 to create a state fund that would provide direct support for student learning in kindergarten through 12th grade public education?\" \n\nThe Maine State Chamber of Commerce formed a PAC called No on Question 2 on August 2, 2016. Chamber President Dana Connors said that while they support strong education funding, it should be done in a manner that does not affect the economy. He went on to state that such a tax would discourage professionals from living in Maine.\n\n\n\nUncertified results indicated that Question 2 passed by a margin of around 10,000 votes. Due to the closeness of the result, opponents of Question 2 filed a petition for a recount, then withdrew their petition on November 29.\nThe creation of the surtax became a point of contention in state budget negotiations for the 2017-2018 budget, with Governor LePage and minority House Republicans opposed to any tax increases in the budget. A budget that did not eliminate the surtax passed the Republican-controlled Maine Senate, but not the House, leading to a shutdown of Maine state government at the end of the fiscal year on June 30th. Three days later, negotiators agreed to, and LePage signed, a budget that eliminated the surtax but added an additional $162 million for public education to the budget.\n"}
{"id": "10231109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10231109", "title": "Microsoft Student Partners", "text": "Microsoft Student Partners\n\nThe Microsoft Student Partners is a worldwide recognizable program to sponsor students majoring in disciplines related to technology. The MSP program enhances students' employability by offering training in skills not usually taught in academia, including knowledge of Microsoft technologies.\n\nThe program is available in most countries, and all students in college and university level are eligible to apply. If accepted, Student Partners are assumed to further share the knowledge among the academic community by, for example, arranging courses, giving presentations and initiating projects.\n\nThe MSP Program was initiated in 2001, and operated in 15 countries for five years. In late 2006, the program was expanded to 50 countries worldwide, and as of July 2010, there are more than 2800 members worldwide across 101 countries and regions.\n\nThe MSP program is an educational and promotional program to sponsor undergraduate and postgraduate students majoring in disciplines related to technology, typically computer science, computer information systems, and information technology. MSP program aims to enhance students' employability and increase students' awareness of Microsoft technologies. Student Partners are offered training especially in product-specific skills not typically taught in academia.\n\nThe program aims to increase awareness of Microsoft products, programs and initiatives. Consequently, the program helps expanding the user base of Microsoft products, and results in better availability of properly educated workforce in those technologies.\n\nThe MSP program is active around the world to college and university level students. Microsoft chooses one skilled student from each institution at a time to serve as representatives. Typically, a Microsoft Student Partner is science major from engineering or business school of higher education.\n\nMicrosoft offers compensation to the members of the Student Partners program through salaries (in some countries only) and software and hardware packages which are distributed to them for testing and promotional purposes. Student Partners are given access to MSDN Premium Subscriptions to support their promotional activities. At times, Student Partners are invited to technology-related conferences.\n\nThe candidate students are evaluated on the following attributes:\n\nStudent Partners are given access to the latest Microsoft software, development tools, reference material, industry events, and training opportunities. MSPs are assumed to further share the knowledge among the academic community by arranging courses; giving presentations and lectures; and initiating projects among the students. MSPs are also used to promote incentives, for example, the Microsoft Imagine Cup; and programs, such as the Ultimate Steal and its affiliate program. Some Student Partners (based on a selection criteria) are provided internships and job opportunities at a few Microsoft Divisions through the program.\n\nLocal MSP activities include, for example, attending the Student Technology Day in UK, which included high-profile presentations, such as one by the CEO of Microsoft, Satya Nadella; and TechDays, for instance in France, and in Canada. In New Zealand, the MSPs developed a programmed called the Microsoft Student Accelerator (MSA), which aims to not only train the students throughout the year but also place the students in various internship programmes over the summer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40640761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40640761", "title": "Mokken scale", "text": "Mokken scale\n\nThe Mokken Scale is a psychometric method of data reduction. A Mokken scale is a unidimensional scale that consists of hierarchically-ordered items that measure the same underlying, latent concept. This method is named after the political scientist Rob Mokken who suggested it in 1971.\n\nMokken Scales have been used in psychology, education, political science, public opinion, medicine and nursing.\n\nMokken scaling belongs to Item response theory. In essence, a Mokken scale is a non-parametric, probabilistic version of Guttman scale. Both Guttman and Mokken scaling can be used to assess whether a number of items measure the same underlying concept. Both Guttman and Mokken scaling are based on the assumption that the items are hierarchically ordered: this means that they are ordered by degree of \"difficulty\". Difficulty here means the percentage of respondents that answers the question affirmatively. The hierarchical order means that a respondent who answered a difficult question correctly is assumed to answer an easy question correctly.\nThe key difference between a Guttman and Mokken scale is that Mokken scaling is probabilistic in nature. The assumption is not that \"every\" respondent who answered a difficult question affirmatively will \"necessarily\" answer an easy question affirmatively. Violations of this are called Guttman errors. Instead, the assumption is that respondents who answered a difficult question affirmatively are more \"likely\" to answer an easy question affirmatively. The scalability of the scale is measured by Loevinger's coefficient H. H compares the actual Guttman errors to the expected number of errors if the items would be unrelated.\n\nThe chance that a respondent will answer an item correctly is described by an item response function. Mokken scales are similar to Rasch scales, in that they both adapted Guttman scales to a probabilistic model. However, Mokken scaling is described as 'non-parametric' because it makes no assumptions about the precise shape of the item response function, only that it is monotone and non-decreasing. The key difference between Mokken scales and Rasch scales is that the latter assumes that all items have the same item response function. In Mokken scaling the Item Response Functions differ for different items.\n\nMokken scales can come in two forms: first as the Double Monotonicity model, where the items can differ in their difficulty. It is essentially, is an ordinal version of Rasch scale; and second, as the Monotone Homogeneity model, where items differ in their discrimination parameter, which means that there can be a weaker relationship between some items and the latent variable and other items and the latent variable. Double Monotonicity models are used most often.\n\nDouble Monotonicity models are based on three assumptions.\n\nThe issue of sample size for Mokken scaling is largely unresolved. Work using simulated samples and varying the item quality in the scales (Loevinger's coefficient and the correlation between scales) suggests that, where the quality of the items is high that lower samples sizes in the region of 250-500 are required compared with sample sizes of 1250-1750 where the item quality is low. Using real data from the Warwick Edinburgh Mental Well Being Scale (WEMWBS) suggests that the required sample size depends on the Mokken scaling parameters of interest as they do not all respond in the same way to varying sample size.\n\nWhile Mokken scaling analysis was originally developed to measure the extent to which individual dichotomous items form a scale, it has since been extended for polytomous items. Moreover, while Mokken scaling analysis is a confirmatory method, meant to test whether a number of items form a coherent scale (like Confirmatory factor analysis), an Automatic Item Selection Procedure has been developed to explore which latent dimensions structure responses on a number of observable items (like Factor analysis).\n\nThere has been some confusion in Mokken scaling between the concepts of Double Monotonicity model and invariant item ordering. The latter implies that all respondents to a series of questions all respond to them in the same order across the whole range of the latent trait. For dichotomously scored items, the Double Monotonicity model can mean invariant item ordering; however, for polytomously scored items this does not necessarily hold. For invariant item ordering to hold not only should the item response functions not intersect, also, the item step response function between one level and the next within each item must not intersect.\n\nMokken scaling software is available within the public domain statistical software R (programming language) and also within the data analysis and statistical software stata. MSP5 for Windows for use on personal computers is no longer compatible with current versions of Microsoft Windows. Also within the R (programming language), unusual response patterns in Mokken Scales can be checked using the package PerFit. Two guides on how to conduct a Mokken scale analysis have been published.\n"}
{"id": "28105213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28105213", "title": "Museum Conservation Institute", "text": "Museum Conservation Institute\n\nThe Smithsonian's Museum Conservation Institute (MCI) aims to be the center for specialized conservation and technical collection research for all of the Smithsonian museums and collections. MCI's staff combine state-of-the-art instrumentation and scientific techniques with the knowledge of materials and the history of technology to provide technical research studies and interpretation of art, as well as historical and anthropological objects, to improve the conservation and collections storage capabilities at the Smithsonian. For the majority of the Smithsonian collections, MCI is the only Smithsonian resource for technical studies and analyses.\n\nThe Smithsonian's Board of Regents established the Conservation Research Laboratory of the United States National Museum in 1963 in response to a growing need to support conservation of the entire Institution's collections.\n\nIn 1965 the name of the laboratory was changed to the Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL). In 1983, the laboratory moved to the Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland. Congress mandated a national conservation training program among other wider responsibilities including an expanded conservation science research program.\n\nThe Board of Regents approved a name change to the Smithsonian Center for Materials Research and Education (SCMRE) in 1998. SCMRE's mission was to serve all museum communities - national and international, and provide professional training and education programs.\n\nIn 2006 the Board of Regents approved the name change to the Museum Conservation Institute (MCI).\n\nRobert J. Koestler, 2004-\n\nLambertus van Zelst, 1984–2003\n\nRobert M. Organ, 1967–1983\n\nCharles H. Olin, 1966–1967\n\nMCI's laboratories are equipped with advanced analytical instrumentation, including:\n\n\nThe Smithsonian's Museum Conservation Institute and the Institut Photonique d’Analyse Non-destructive Européen des Matériaux Anciens platform at Soleil have formed a partnership to use the power of the third-generation synchrotron to study and preserve the priceless Smithsonian collections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18604106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18604106", "title": "Musée en Herbe", "text": "Musée en Herbe\n\nThe Musée en Herbe is an art museum for children, located at 23 rue de L'Arbre-Sec in Paris, France. It was formerly in the Jardin d'Acclimatation, Bois de Boulogne, Paris. It is open daily, and an admission fee is charged.\n\nThe museum was established in 1975 by Sylvie Girardet and Claire Merleau-Ponty. It presents a series of art exhibits and workshops for children, based on the works of artists such as Marc Chagall, Pablo Picasso, and Niki de Saint Phalle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33442988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33442988", "title": "MyMathLab", "text": "MyMathLab\n\nMyMathLab is an online interactive and educational system designed by Pearson Education to accompany its published math textbooks. It covers courses from basic math through calculus and statistics, as well as math for business, engineering and future educators. Pearson designed \"MyMathLab\" to respond to the needs of instructors and students who wanted more opportunity for practice, immediate feedback, and automated grading. \n\nPearson's \"MyLab\" and \"Mastering\" series consists of more than 70 online interactive and educational system in a variety of different subjects. Some features of \"MyMathLab\" (and MyStatLab) specifically for students are homework, quizzes, tests, full eText, and multimedia tutorials. For instructors' benefits, \"MyMathLab\" records and evaluates students' learning progress and time spent on assignments. Instructors may set up a customized \"MyMathLab\" course. \n\nA report of the effectiveness of MyLab and Mastering, and how to plan and implement a course has been published by Pearson.\n\nFayetteville State University conducted a study on whether using an online interactive system such as \"MyMathLab\" would increase a student's academic performance compared to the traditional paper-based homework system. The study was done in a college algebra course. The result showed that those who pass the course using \"MyMathLab\" is 70% while using traditional homework system is 49%. However, the study neglected to factor in students preemptively dropping the course out of frustration and the increased amount of time students were forced to spend on a topic due to poor user interface design and incorrect answer parsing. A study done by North Georgia College and State University shows that most students found \"MyMathLab's\" video tutoring feature useful. Some students argue that most of \"MyMathLab's\" videos only cover basic concepts when they demand more videos on advanced materials. Another review claims that some tutors are not as easily understood as others. \"MyMathLab\" has also fallen under additional criticism for wording problems in a way that students cannot easily understand. \n\nPearson’s \"MyMathLab\" consists of several features that aid instructors and students. The homework and practice exercises take advantage of an algorithm to generate problems, so students can have limitless options to practice problems. Another core feature of \"MyMathLab\" is the eText book. The eText book can be viewed through a traditional computer or a mobile tablet. The eText itself has features such as: highlighting text, adding links, bookmark pages, and pin notes. The gradebook feature of \"MyMathLab\" helps both instructors and students keep track of progress within the course, and shows students which concepts they have yet to master. \n\n"}
{"id": "28326410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28326410", "title": "Palacio de la Autonomía", "text": "Palacio de la Autonomía\n\nThe Palacio de la Autonomía (Autonomy Palace) is a museum and site where the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México gained autonomy from direct government control in 1929. The building is from the late 19th century, and located on the corner of Licenciado de Verdad and Rep de Guatemala streets, north of Santa Teresa la Antigua and east of Templo Mayor. The site has a 500-year history, starting from part of lands granted by Hernán Cortés. The current building was constructed by the administration of President Porfirio Díaz, but it was ceded to the University in 1910. Since that time, the building has had a number of uses, including housing a dental school and a preparatory school. Today it houses the Museo de la Autonomía Universitaria (University Autonomy Museum).\n\nThis building was constructed during the Porfirio Díaz period and belongs to the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México. The architecture of the building is considered to be eclectic, built of white stone brought from Pachuca, and a facade accentuated by a triangular pediment with a relief and foliage. Part of the building’s foundation lies on wall that surrounded the sacred plaza of the Templo Mayor.\n\nThe site has a history of over 500 years. After the Conquest, Hernán Cortés distributed areas in the Aztec city of Tenochtitlan. This space was reserved for Luis de Rivera, the first representative of the Casa de Moneda (coin mint) in New Spain. Next, the area became part of the Santa Teresa la Antigua convent and after it was closed by the Reform Laws, the building here became housing. This property was then acquired by the government of Porfirio Díaz, which constructed the current building in the early 20th century. It was the site of the Escuela Normal de Maestros (Teachers’ College), then part of the Universidad Nacional de México, today Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM) in 1910.\n\nAs part of UNAM, the building functioned as the dean’s offices. In 1929, documents were signed here which gave the university its autonomy from direct government control. After 1930, the building was the Escuela de Iniciación Universitaria (School of University Initiation) then the Escuela Nacional de Comerico y Administración (National School of Commerce and Administration). After much of the UNAM moved to the Ciudad Universitaria, it housed the Escuela National de Odontología, (National School do Dentistry). When this school moved in 1958, due to its growth, the building became the main campus of the Escuela de Enfermería y Obstetricia (School of Nursing and Obstetrics). Lastly, it became Plantel Número 2 “Doctor Erasmo Castellanos Quinto” of the Escuela Nacional Preparatoria (National Preparatory School), and functioned as such until 1978.\n\nA group of dentists organized a campaign to reconstruct the building in the early 2000s. Today, the building functions as a museum called the Museo de la Autonomía Universitaria (University Autonomy Museum) and is also commonly called the Palacio de la Autonomía (Autonomy Palace). The Universidad Nacional de México gained autonomy, free from direct government control of the curriculum, in 1929. This autonomy is considered to be extremely important to Mexican public universities. To celebrate the 75th anniversary of the event in 2004, the building was given its current name. The museum holds the Hall of Mexican Dentistry, a temporary exhibit hall, and archeological exhibit, and is the site of the university radio station UNAM-FM. It contains archives related to the major players in the university’s struggle to gain autonomy. There have been windows built into the foundation to allow visitors to see remnants of the old convent.\n"}
{"id": "3484228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3484228", "title": "Peer Review (magazine)", "text": "Peer Review (magazine)\n\nPeer Review is a quarterly magazine published by the Association of American Colleges and Universities that reports \"emerging trends and key debates in undergraduate liberal education\". It was established in early 2000 and the editor-in-chief is Shelley Johnson Carey. The magazine is based in Washington DC.\n"}
{"id": "10415152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10415152", "title": "Peter Amollo Odhiambo", "text": "Peter Amollo Odhiambo\n\nProfessor Peter Amollo (P. A.) Odhiambo, MBBS, MMed (Surg), FRCS (Edin), FCS (ECSA), FACC, is a Kenyan consultant thoracic and cardiovascular surgeon. He is Kenya's first cardio-thoracic surgeon and a professor of thoracic and cardiovascular surgery at the University of Nairobi. He is a founder and former chairman of the Kenya Cardiac Society, and a former president of the Pan African Society of Cardiology (PASCAR). Odhiambo is the chairman of the Kenya Tobacco Control Board. He is also the founder and editor of Medicom, the African Journal of Hospital Medicine. \n\nIn 1986, Prof. Odhiambo was given an award for an outstanding contribution in medicine by the Giant Federation of Kenya, and in 1993 he received another award from PASCAR for his distinguished service to cardiology in Africa. He was the tenth Dean of Nairobi University’s Faculty, now School of Medicine, serving from 1992-1996. During his tenure, he successfully steered the faculty towards cost-sharing through its most difficult period for both staff and students. In 2012, he was given the Mater Hospital Recognition Award, followed, in 2013, by the SSK award for Outstanding Role in Medical Education and Teaching. He conceptualized and then chaired the University of Nairobi Teaching Hospital Project. He has written two books: \"Tobacco Versus Health\" and \"Making Sense of Cessation of Tobacco\".\n\nProf. Odhiambo has campaigned widely against drug abuse and is at the forefront in the fight for the liberation of tobacco farmers in East Africa. He has steered the Kenya Tobacco Control Board to a successful level enabling the Board be legally institutionalized. He has also played a key role in ensuring that the legal mandate of the Board is within the laid down legal framework as per the Tobacco Control Act of 2007, thus the Board has all the necessary instruments to operate legally. In 2008, Odhiambo won an award from the World Health Organization for his accomplishments in the area of tobacco control. In 2016 he won the WHO World No-Tobacco Day Award to Board I Chair. He worked tirelessly behind the scenes to create awareness on the dangers of shisha (hookah), and was instrumental in the Kenya government's decision to ban shisha in the country. \n\nHe is involved in many community projects in his home village of Kanyaluo, found in Rachuonyo District in Western Kenya's Homa Bay County. He is a founder member and chairman of the Karachuonyo Development Society. \n\nIn 1998, Odhiambo’s son, James Ocholla Odhiambo “Jordan”, was gunned down by Kenyan policemen, for no cause, on his way home from the Nairobi Campus of the United States International University, where he was a student. The tragedy, which exposed corruption in the Kenya Police at that time, received wide media coverage and was a major source of motivation for Prof. Odhiambo’s interest in, and consequent campaigns toward, the efficiency and effectiveness of the Kenya Police. \n\nProf. Odhiambo was educated at the Calcutta Medical College, Nairobi University, the University of Edinburgh and McGill University. He resides in Nairobi with his family.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43720216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43720216", "title": "Pro knigi", "text": "Pro knigi\n\nPro Knigi (\"About Books\") () – is a quarterly educational magazine that contains information about old books, the study thereof, the history of bibliophiles and the problems of book-collecting. It has been published in Moscow since 2007. The circulation of the magazine is about 2000 copies. It is distributed both by retail and subscription.\n\n\"Pro Knigi\" was supposed to be the keeper of traditions in the bibliophile period press of the early twentieth century. Before it, some magazines were published by a bookseller and collector N. Solovyev, \"Anticvar\" (1902–1903) and \"Russian bibliophile\" (1911–1916). The board of publishers of the magazine has been led by the Head of the National union of Bibliophiles, the Head of Federal Agency on Press and Mass Communications of the Russian Federation, M. Seslavinsky, since 2008.\n\n\"Pro Knigi\" is considered to be an authentic guide to a bibliophile’s life in the early twenty-first century. \n\nThe magazine contains many articles about rare books, published both in Russia and abroad, unique historical documents, reviews of the results of Moscow auctions and the trading of Russian books at European and USA antiquarian bookselling fairs, \"bibliophile travelling\" to different cities of the world (Odessa, Firenze, Berlin, Paris, Genève, London, Ottawa, Barcelona). \n\nGenres such as \"portraits of bibliophiles and old-time books admirers\" are also reflected in the pages of the magazine: an interview with the literary critic and bibliographer L. Turchinsky, the French bibliophile Renne Gera, the graphic artist D. Bekker, the outstanding Russian mathematician, famous bibliophile M. Bashmakov, some fragments of the national artist of the USSR, O. Basilashvili’s reminiscences, the Siberian bibliophile B. Varava’s memoirs, the recollections of the soviet actor and bibliophile N. Smirnov-Sokolsy, the bibliographer and publisher P. Efremov, the book artist F. Rozhanovsky.\n\nThere are also some subject magazines that describe events significant for Russian book culture, such as A. Block’s 130th Birthday (2010, № 3), N. Gogol’s 200th Birthday (2009, № 1), and also fascicles in memory of N. Gumilev (2011. № 4) and N. Smirnov-Sokolsky (2012. № 1), 200 year anniversary since the end of the Great Patriotic War of the year 1812 (2012, № 3).\n\nThere are members of the National bibliophiles’ union, leading library contributors (RSL, RNL), contributors of museums, galleries, arts critics, book historians, and also experts in antiquarian book trading among the magazine’s authors. They are: a bibliologist E. Nemirovsky, bibliophile A. Finkelstein, a literary critic, Russian futurism researcher A. Parnis, a national graphic design classicist, arts critic V. Krichevsky. One of the leading Russian book graphic artists I. Sakurov and a famous national comic book artist A. Ayoshin work with the magazine.\n\nA genuine interest among readers was aroused by bibliophilic anecdotes, illustrated by the great Russian artist I. Dmitrenko, and also a bibliophile comic story \"The Moscow bibliophile’s revenge\" (plot by M. Seslavinsky, pictures by A. Ayoshin).\n\nTogether with the National Union of Bibliophiles, \"Pro Knigi\" is the founder of honours \"For the personal contributions to the development of national Bibliophilia in the name of N. Smirnov-Sokolsky\". O. Lasunsky, V. Petritsky, I. Chertkov (2013) and Y. Berdichevsky (2014) were awarded the medal.\n\nThe publishing centre Marka printed a decorative marked envelope specially for the magazine’s fifth anniversary. The ceremony of introducing it was held on 5 September during the 25th Moscow International Book Fair.\n\n"}
{"id": "46316339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46316339", "title": "Rajaâ Cherkaoui El Moursli", "text": "Rajaâ Cherkaoui El Moursli\n\nRajaâ Cherkaoui El Moursli (born 12 May 1954) is a Moroccan Professor of nuclear physics. She won the L'Oréal-UNESCO Awards for Women in Science for her work on the Higgs Boson.\n\nEl Moursli was born in Salé in 1954. She obtained her first degree in mathematics at Lycée Descartes in Rabat. She had to argue the case then with her father to be a girl who would leave conservative Morocco to study further. She says that Neil Armstrong's achievements and a high school teacher inspired her. She then went to study in Grenoble in France where she obtained her doctorate in physics at the \"Laboratoire de Physique subatomique et cosmologie\" which was part of the Joseph Fourier University. In 1982 she returned to Rabat.\nThen she leads a research team for the ATLAS experiment at CERN.\n\nIn 2015 she was awarded the L'Oréal-UNESCO Awards for Women in Science for Africa and the Arab states. The award cited her contribution to the proof of the existence of the Higgs Boson. This particle is responsible for the creation of mass. El Moursli raised the level of Moroccan scientific research and healthcare. The latter was acknowledged because she set up the first master's degree in medical physics.\nDave Charlton, ATLAS spokesperson congratulated her for her award and said \"ATLAS congratulates Professor Rajaâ Cherkaoui El Moursli for this prestigious award, and the recognition of her part in the discovery of the Higgs boson\"\n"}
{"id": "34564856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34564856", "title": "Rathgen Research Laboratory", "text": "Rathgen Research Laboratory\n\nThe Rathgen Research Laboratory () is a Research Institute of the Berlin State Museums under the auspices of the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation. It carries out cross-material conservation science, art technology and archaeometry studies of fine arts and cultural artifacts to determine composition, age and authenticity and provide advice on their restoration. It further conducts academic research on scientific issues concerning the care and preservation of monuments and archaeological sites. Founded in 1888 as the \"Chemical Laboratory of the Royal Museums in Berlin\", it is the oldest museum laboratory in world and bears the name of its first Director, Dr. Friedrich Rathgen.\n\nThe Laboratory also provides services to a number of international bodies, such as the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS), the International Council of Museums (ICOM) and the International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property (ICCROM).\n\nThe laboratory is equipped with state-of-the-art analytical equipment, methods and procedures, including:\n\n\nOther methods for the investigation of materials include a weathering chamber to simulate environmental conditions and mobile measuring systems for monitoring the physical and chemical environment for art works in situ.\n\nThe Rathgen has exposed several scandalous forgeries, including paintings in the Beltracchi affair. Analysis of annular rings in the original frames demonstrated that the wood was indeed old but came from trees that had once stood tightly side by side, unlikely for diverse works such as Fernand Léger and Max Ernst.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3132126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3132126", "title": "Rex Lassalle", "text": "Rex Lassalle\n\nReginald Andrew Lassalle, better known as Rex Lassalle was born in Belmont, Port of Spain, Trinidad in 1945. He attended Belmont Boys Intermediate School and St. Mary's College, Port of Spain. He is a former lieutenant in the Trinidad and Tobago Regiment who, together with Raffique Shah, led a mutiny by the Regiment on April 21, 1970 (\"see Black Power Revolution\").\n\nLassalle attended the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst from January 1965 to December 1966. After returning to Trinidad he served as a second lieutenant and then a lieutenant. Following the mutiny he was charged with over fifty offenses including treason and mutiny. Although he was never actually tried for treason, he was court martialed in March 1971 and sentenced to 15 years imprisonment. He appealed, won the appeal, and was eventually set free after an appeal by the State to the Privy Council and was freed on July 27, 1972. In total he served 27 months in prison.\n\nHe was strongly influenced by his parents during childhood and particularly their intuitive insights into nature and animals. The impact of this is reflected in his 1999 book on 9 Star Ki or Chinese astrology, Lassalle's in-depth personal treatment of the subject. His grounding in 9 Star Ki came through Michio Kushi the well known macrobiotics educator. He went on to study Osteopathy at the College of Osteopaths in Borehamwood, Hertfordshire, England and qualified in 1974. Another profound influence on his work at this time was that of Dr. Major Bertrand DeJarnette the renowned American engineer, inventor, osteopath and chiropractor. He then studied acupuncture and homeopathy under Professor Malcolm Stemp of Newton Abbott, Devon the accomplished British homeopath.\n\nAround this time (late 1970s) he became involved with martial arts and studied under Kanetsuka Sensei of the British Aikido Federation and also Chiba Sensei where he picked up many techniques concerning the breath which he then applied, along with his knowledge of acupuncture, to develop his own style of Shiatsu. He founded a school of shiatsu in the mid-1980s called Hara Shiatsu International and trained the first generation of Shiatsu teachers in the UK.\n\nLassalle was strongly influenced by Buddhist philosophy especially that of the Tibetan and Zen traditions and this would reflect itself in his approach to health, well being, nutrition and also to his particular style of 9 Star Ki astrology. In recent years his work has been in providing services to the Spa industry during the course of which (2009) he wrote a book on spa massage. He continues to develop new methods in this area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39398632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39398632", "title": "SWAD (software)", "text": "SWAD (software)\n\nSWAD (originally stood for \"Sistema Web de Apoyo a la Docencia\" in Spanish or \"Web System for Education Support\", currently stands for \"Shared Workspace At a Distance\") is a web application to manage the courses, students and teachers of one or more educational institutions.\n\nZombie apocalypse appeared in September 1999. In 2005 its use was extended to the University of Granada. The application was released as free software in January 2010 under Affero General Public License, version 3. In 2010 the system was used by 1,100 professors and 35,000 students. In 2011 it was used by 2,000 professors and 60,000 students in 2,800 courses.\n\nSWAD is currently available in 9 languages and used in the University of Granada and the portal OpenSWAD.org. In February 2016 SWAD installation at the University of Granada housed 419 degrees (including undergraduate and graduate) with 7114 courses, 110057 students and 3304 teachers.. \n\nThe objectives addressed in the development of the platform SWAD can be specified depending on its potential beneficiaries:\n\n\nA fundamental criterion at the development of the platform has been to facilitate its use by users, emphasizing both the ease of learning and use for students and teachers (usability), and the time saving and quality improvement in various tasks related to teaching.\n\nFor the institution or company, SWAD has the additional advantage of being fast and efficient, consuming very little computer resources, so being suitable for low-cost installations. Compared to other tools used for the same purpose, since its implementation in C language, SWAD does not require a big hardware and software infrastructure, even in large universities, being sufficient a single server.\n\nSWAD core is a CGI programmed in C comprising almost all the functionality of the platform. The core is supplemented with some external programs like photo processing module and chat module.\n\nThe server runs on a Linux system with Apache and a MySQL or MariaDB database.\n\nBeing a web application, the client can be any modern web browser. To use the chat you must have Java runtime environment.\n\nBesides the web client, there is an M-learning application for Android devices called SWADroid, which implements some of the most used features in the web version.\n\nSWAD can accommodate in a single platform one or multiple educational organizations. It uses the following hierarchical structure:\nThe central element of this hierarchy is the course, which can register several teachers and students.\n\nEach user has a role of student, non-editing teacher or teacher at each of the course in which he/she is enrolled. In addition, some users may be administrators of one or more degrees, centres or institutions, as well as global administrators of the platform.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40930548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40930548", "title": "State-integrated school", "text": "State-integrated school\n\nIn New Zealand, a state-integrated school is a former private school which has integrated into the state education system under the Private Schools Conditional Integration Act 1975, becoming a state school while retaining its special character. State-integrated schools were established by the Third Labour Government in the early 1970s as a response to the near-collapse of the country's then private Catholic school system, which had run into financial difficulties.\n\nAs of July 2016, there were 329 state-integrated schools in New Zealand, of which 237 identify as Roman Catholic. They educate approximately 87,500 students, or 11.5% of New Zealand's student population, making them the second-most common type of school in New Zealand behind non-integrated state schools.\n\nNew Zealand's state education system was established in 1877. Prior to then, schools were run by church groups and other private groups. From 1852 until provinces were abolished in 1876, all schools were entitled to receive some financial assistance from provincial governments. Under the Education Act 1877, education became compulsory for all children between 7 and 13 years of age and gave all children between 5 and 15 years of age the entitlement to a free and secular education in a state-run school. The secular-education requirement arose from a deadlock between secularist, Catholic, and Protestant MPs over how much and what type of religious influence (if any) should be included in state schools. Ultimately, MPs opted for the safest route by making state education secular. As a result, both Catholic and Protestant churches set up their own private school systems.\n\nAfter the Second World War, private religious schools had to cope with increasing rolls due to changes in the compulsory school starting and leaving ages (the school leaving age was increased to 15 in 1944; the school starting age was lowered to 6 in 1964) and the post-war baby boom. In addition, private schools had to keep pace with the drive for higher-quality facilities and smaller class sizes in the state sector, while dealing with a teacher shortage and the increasing cost of land, equipment and salaries. The Catholic school system, in particular, had to hire more lay teachers to cope with student numbers – the proportion of lay teachers in the Catholic system increased from 5 percent in 1956 to 38 percent in 1972 – and more lay teachers meant higher salary costs. Catholic parishes were struggling to meet the increasing costs while keeping tuition fees down, and ultimately many of them accrued large amounts of debt or cut costs, causing schools to be run down. By the end of the 1960s, the Catholic school system was facing a financial crisis and was on the brink of collapse.\n\nIn November 1972, the Labour Party was elected to government, and Prime Minister Norman Kirk immediately sought a solution to the Catholic school funding crisis. The government determined the state school system would not be able to cope with an influx of students if the Catholic system were to collapse, so sought a way for the state to assist them to keep them open. The idea of integrating private schools into the state system has been credited to MP (and later Speaker of the House) Jonathan Hunt, and after consultation, the Private Schools Conditional Integration Act was drawn up. The Act was passed by Parliament and signed into law on 10 October 1975, and came into force on 16 August 1976.\n\nThe first private school to integrate was Wesley College, Pukekohe, in 1977. The first two Catholic schools to integrate were Cardinal McKeefry School and St Bernard's School, both in Wellington, in August 1979. Despite the increasing urgency, it took until 1984 to integrate every Catholic school.\n\nState-integrated schools are established through an integration agreement between the Crown and the proprietors of the private school to be integrated. Each integration agreement sets out the school's particular special character, which is usually a religious or philosophical belief. Of the 331 state-integrated schools, 238 are Catholic schools (i.e. Catholicism is their special character), with the local Catholic diocese or religious institute acting as proprietor. The special characters of the remaining 93 schools include Anglican, Presbyterian, non-denominational Christian, Montessori and Waldorf (Steiner).\n\nProprietors retain ownership of the school land and buildings, and representatives of the proprietors sit as trustees on the school's board of trustees. The main role of the proprietors is to ensure that the special character of the school is maintained and preserved, and have the authority to address problems if the special character is being compromised.\n\nWith several major exceptions relating to their special characters and their proprietors, state-integrated schools are required to operate like their non-integrated counterparts. This includes complying with all National Education Goals and National Administration Guidelines (\"NEGs and NAGs\") set by the government, having to employ registered teaching staff, and complying with the nationally-set school year. State-integrated schools must follow the nationally-set curriculum (The New Zealand Curriculum / Te Matautanga o Aotearoa), but they may teach their special character within it. State-integrated schools that have a religious special character are exempt from the religious instruction restrictions of state schools, and may hold religious education classes and religious services while the school is open for instruction. At some state-integrated secondary schools, religious studies is offered as a subject contributing to the National Certificate of Educational Achievement (NCEA), New Zealand's main secondary school qualification.\n\nState-integrated schools are permitted to give preference in enrolment to students who, either themselves or through their parents, identify with the school's special character. Each proprietor defines what is required for preferential enrolment. For all Catholic schools and most other religious schools, a letter from the priest of the student's or their parent's parish is required for preferential enrolment, and obtaining such a letter usually requires a certain commitment to the religion, e.g. Catholic priests usually require a minimum of the student's (or at least one of their parent's) baptism into the Catholic faith. Schools may admit a limited number of non-preference students (usually no more than 5–10% of their total roll) after all preferential enrolments, up to the maximum school roll set in the school's integration agreement.\n\nState-integrated schools are allowed to charge a fee to parents of students known as \"attendance dues\". The Crown does not own the school land or buildings and do not fund their capital cost to maintain separation of church and state, so proprietors are permitted to charge attendance dues to keep the school up to the standard of an equivalent state school and to help pay off any debt accrued by the school before it was integrated. Proprietors cannot charge attendance dues for more than the amount set for their school and published in \"The New Zealand Gazette\".\n\nApart from attendance dues, state-integrated schools like other state schools are not allowed to charge fees to domestic students (i.e. New Zealand citizens, permanent residents and temporary residents – the latter includes all Australian citizens), but commonly request voluntary donations to top-up funding from the government and attendance dues.\n\nA survey of 25 state-integrated secondary schools by \"North & South\" magazine in November 2011 found the attendance dues generally ranged from NZ$240–280 per year for Catholic schools in Christchurch to $740 per year for Catholic schools in Hamilton, and from $1,150 to $2,300 per year for non-Catholic state-integrated schools. Requested donations at the surveyed schools varied from $140 to over $3,200. As a comparison, the largest donation requested by a non-integrated state school is $975 per year.\n\n"}
{"id": "24280993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24280993", "title": "Sven Koenig (computer scientist)", "text": "Sven Koenig (computer scientist)\n\nSven Koenig is a full professor in computer science at the University of Southern California. He received an M.S. degree in computer science from the University of California at Berkeley in 1991 and a Ph.D. degree in computer science from Carnegie Mellon University in 1997, advised by Reid Simmons.\n\nKoenig is an artificial intelligence and robotics researcher who develops techniques for planning and learning under uncertainty and time constraints, both for single agents and teams of agents. His research often combines ideas from artificial intelligence and robotics with ideas from other disciplines, such as decision theory, theoretical computer science, operations research and economics.\n\nIn his pre-dissertation work, Koenig applied Markov Decision Processes (MDPs) to artificial intelligence planning. The standard textbook in artificial intelligence, (second edition), states \"The connection between MDPs and AI planning problems was made first by Sven Koenig (1991), who showed how probabilistic STRIPS operators provide a compact representation for transition models.\"\n\nKoenig's dissertation on \"Goal-Directed Acting with Incomplete Information\" describes a robust robot navigation architecture based on partially observable Markov decision process models. His papers on the subject are highly cited due to their pioneering nature and the subsequent wide adoption of probabilistic robot navigation approaches.\n\nAfter his dissertation, Koenig laid a broad foundation for incremental heuristic search in artificial intelligence with the development of search algorithms such as Lifelong Planning A* (LPA*), D* Lite, Adaptive A* (AA*) and Fringe-Saving A* (FSA*). The ideas behind his incremental heuristic search algorithm D* Lite, for example, have been incorporated by others into a variety of path planning systems in robotics, including Carnegie Mellon University's winning entry in the DARPA Urban Challenge.\n\nKoenig is also known for his work on real-time search, ant robots, probabilistic planning with nonlinear utility functions, development and analysis of robot-navigation methods (goal-directed navigation in unknown terrain, localization, coverage and mapping), agent coordination based on cooperative auctions, and any-angle path planning.\n\nKoenig was conference co-chair of the 2004 International Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling, program co-chair of the 2005 International Joint Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems and program co-chair of the 2007 and 2008 AAAI Nectar programs. He served or serves on the editorial boards of several artificial intelligence and robotics journals, on the board of directors of the Robotics: Science and Systems Foundation, on the advisory boards of the Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research and Americas School on Agents and Multiagent Systems, and on the steering committees of the International Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling and the Symposium on Abstraction, Reformulation, and Approximation.\n\nKoenig is the recipient of an ACM Recognition of Service Award, an NSF CAREER award, an IBM Faculty Partnership Award, a Charles Lee Powell Foundation Award, a Raytheon Faculty Fellowship Award, a Mellon Mentoring Award, a Fulbright Fellowship, the IEEE Computer Science and Engineering Undergraduate Teaching Award, and the Tong Leong Lim Pre-Doctoral Prize from the University of California at Berkeley.\n\nS. Koenig. Goal-Directed Acting with Incomplete Information. PhD thesis, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh (Pennsylvania), 1997.\n\nR. Simmons and S. Koenig. Probabilistic Robot Navigation in Partially Observable Environments. In Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 1080–1087, 1995.\n\nS. Koenig. Agent-Centered Search. Artificial Intelligence Magazine, 22, (4), 109-131, 2001.\n\nS. Koenig, M. Likhachev and D. Furcy. Lifelong Planning A*. Artificial Intelligence Journal, 155, (1-2), 93-146, 2004.\n\nS. Koenig, M. Likhachev, Y. Liu and D. Furcy. Incremental Heuristic Search in Artificial Intelligence. Artificial Intelligence Magazine, 25, (2), 99-112, 2004.\n\nJ. Svennebring and S. Koenig. Building Terrain-Covering Ant Robots. Autonomous Robots, 16, (3), 313-332, 2004.\n\nS. Koenig and M. Likhachev. Fast Replanning for Navigation in Unknown Terrain. Transactions on Robotics, 21, (3), 354-363, 2005.\n\nM. Lagoudakis, V. Markakis, D. Kempe, P. Keskinocak, S. Koenig, A. Kleywegt, C. Tovey, A. Meyerson and S. Jain. Auction-Based Multi-Robot Routing. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Robotics: Science and Systems, 343-350, 2005.\n\nY. Liu and S. Koenig. Functional Value Iteration for Decision-Theoretic Planning with General Utility Functions. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), 1186–1193, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "300215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300215", "title": "Thesis", "text": "Thesis\n\nA thesis or dissertation is a document submitted in support of candidature for an academic degree or professional qualification presenting the author's research and findings. In some contexts, the word \"thesis\" or a cognate is used for part of a bachelor's or master's course, while \"dissertation\" is normally applied to a doctorate, while in other contexts, the reverse is true. The term graduate thesis is sometimes used to refer to both master's theses and doctoral dissertations.\n\nThe required complexity or quality of research of a thesis or dissertation can vary by country, university, or program, and the required minimum study period may thus vary significantly in duration.\n\nThe word \"dissertation\" can at times be used to describe a treatise without relation to obtaining an academic degree. The term \"thesis\" is also used to refer to the general claim of an essay or similar work.\n\nThe term \"thesis\" comes from the Greek , meaning \"something put forth\", and refers to an intellectual proposition. \"Dissertation\" comes from the Latin \"dissertātiō\", meaning \"discussion\". Aristotle was the first philosopher to define the term thesis. \"A 'thesis' is a supposition of some eminent philosopher that conflicts with the general opinion...for to take notice when any ordinary person expresses views contrary to men's usual opinions would be silly\".For Aristotle, a thesis would therefore be a supposition that is stated in contradiction with general opinion or express disagreement with other philosophers (104b33-35). A supposition is a statement or opinion that may or may not be true depending on the evidence and/or proof that is offered (152b32). The purpose of the dissertation is thus to outline the proofs of why the author disagrees with other philosophers or the general opinion.\n\nA thesis (or dissertation) may be arranged as a thesis by publication or a monograph, with or without appended papers, respectively, though many graduate programs allow candidates to submit a curated collection of published papers. An ordinary monograph has a title page, an abstract, a table of contents, comprising the various chapters (e.g., introduction, literature review, methodology, results, discussion), and a bibliography or (more usually) a references section. They differ in their structure in accordance with the many different areas of study (arts, humanities, social sciences, technology, sciences, etc.) and the differences between them. In a thesis by publication, the chapters constitute an introductory and comprehensive review of the appended published and unpublished article documents.\n\nDissertations normally report on a research project or study, or an extended analysis of a topic. The structure of a thesis or dissertation explains the purpose, the previous research literature impinging on the topic of the study, the methods used, and the findings of the project. Most world universities use a multiple chapter format : a) an introduction, which introduces the research topic, the methodology, as well as its scope and significance; b) a literature review, reviewing relevant literature and showing how this has informed the research issue; c) a methodology chapter, explaining how the research has been designed and why the research methods/population/data collection and analysis being used have been chosen; d) a findings chapter, outlining the findings of the research itself; e) an analysis and discussion chapter, analysing the findings and discussing them in the context of the literature review (this chapter is often divided into two—analysis and discussion); f) a conclusion.\n\nDegree-awarding institutions often define their own house style that candidates have to follow when preparing a thesis document. In addition to institution-specific house styles, there exist a number of field-specific, national, and international standards and recommendations for the presentation of theses, for instance ISO 7144. Other applicable international standards include ISO 2145 on section numbers, ISO 690 on bibliographic references, and ISO 31 on quantities or units.\n\nSome older house styles specify that front matter (title page, abstract, table of content, etc.) uses a separate page number sequence from the main text, using Roman numerals. The relevant international standard and many newer style guides recognize that this book design practice can cause confusion where electronic document viewers number all pages of a document continuously from the first page, independent of any printed page numbers. They, therefore, avoid the traditional separate number sequence for front matter and require a single sequence of Arabic numerals starting with 1 for the first printed page (the recto of the title page).\n\nPresentation requirements, including pagination, layout, type and color of paper, use of acid-free paper (where a copy of the dissertation will become a permanent part of the library collection), paper size, order of components, and citation style, will be checked page by page by the accepting officer before the thesis is accepted and a receipt is issued.\n\nHowever, strict standards are not always required. Most Italian universities, for example, have only general requirements on the character size and the page formatting, and leave much freedom for the actual typographic details.\n\nA thesis or dissertation committee is a committee that supervises a student's dissertation. In the US, these committees usually consist of a primary supervisor or advisor and two or more committee members, who supervise the progress of the dissertation and may also act as the examining committee, or jury, at the oral examination of the thesis (see below).\n\nAt most universities, the committee is chosen by the student in conjunction with his or her primary adviser, usually after completion of the comprehensive examinations or prospectus meeting, and may consist of members of the comps committee. The committee members are doctors in their field (whether a PhD or other designation) and have the task of reading the dissertation, making suggestions for changes and improvements, and sitting in on the defense. Sometimes, at least one member of the committee must be a professor in a department that is different from that of the student.\n\nIn the \"Latin American docta\", the academic dissertation can be referred to as different stages inside the academic program that the student is seeking to achieve into a recognized Argentine University, in all the cases the students must develop original contribution in the chosen fields by means of several paper work and essays that comprehend the body of the \"thesis\". Correspondingly to the academic degree, the last phase of an academic thesis is called in Spanish a \"defensa de grado\", \"defensa magistral\" or \"defensa doctoral\" in cases in which the university candidate is finalizing his or her licentiate, master's, or PhD program. According to a committee resolution, the dissertation can be approved or rejected by an academic committee consisting of the thesis director, the thesis coordinator, and at least one evaluator from another recognized university in which the student is pursuing his or her academic program. All the dissertation referees must already have achieved at least the academic degree that the candidate is trying to reach.\n\nAt English-speaking Canadian universities, writings presented in fulfillment of undergraduate coursework requirements are normally called \"papers\", \"term papers\" or \"essays\". A longer paper or essay presented for completion of a 4-year bachelor's degree is sometimes called a \"major paper\". High-quality research papers presented as the empirical study of a \"postgraduate\" consecutive bachelor \"with Honours\" or Baccalaureatus Cum Honore degree are called \"thesis\" (Honours Seminar Thesis). Major papers presented as the final project for a master's degree are normally called \"thesis\"; and major papers presenting the student's research towards a doctoral degree are called \"theses\" or \"dissertations\".\n\nAt Canadian universities under the French influenced system, students may have a choice between presenting a \"\"mémoire\"', which is a shorter synthetic work (roughly 75 pages) and a \"thèse\" which is one hundred pages or more. A synthetic monograph associated with doctoral work is referred to as a \"thèse\". See also compilation thesis. Either work can be awarded a \"mention d'honneur\"\" (excellence) as a result of the decision by the examination committee, although these are rare.\n\nA typical undergraduate paper or essay might be forty pages. Master's theses are approximately one hundred pages. PhD theses are usually over two hundred pages. This may vary greatly by discipline, program, college, or university. However, normally the required minimum study period is primarily depending on the complexity or quality of research requirements.\n\nTheses Canada acquires and preserves a comprehensive collection of Canadian theses at Library and Archives Canada' (LAC) through partnership with Canadian universities who participate in the program.\n\nAt most university faculties in Croatia, a degree is obtained by defending a thesis after having passed all the classes specified in the degree programme. In the Bologna system, the bachelor's thesis, called \"završni rad\" (literally \"final work\" or \"concluding work\") is defended after 3 years of study and is about 30 pages long. Most students with bachelor's degrees continue onto master's programmes which end with a master's thesis called \"diplomski rad\" (literally \"diploma work\" or \"graduate work\"). The term dissertation is used for a doctoral degree paper (\"doktorska disertacija\").\n\nIn the Czech Republic, higher education is completed by passing all classes remaining to the educational compendium for given degree and defending a thesis. For bachelors programme the thesis is called \"bakalářská práce\" (bachelor's thesis), for master's degrees and also doctor of medicine or dentistry degrees it is the \"diplomová práce\" (master's thesis), and for Philosophiae doctor (PhD.) degree it is dissertation \"dizertační práce\". Thesis for so called Higher-Professional School (Vyšší odborná škola, VOŠ) is called \"absolventská práce\".\n\nThe following types of thesis are used in Finland (names in Finnish/Swedish):\n\nIn France, the academic dissertation or thesis is called a \"thèse\" and it is reserved for the final work of doctoral candidates. The minimum page length is generally (and not formally) 100 pages (or about 400,000 characters), but is usually several times longer (except for technical theses and for \"exact sciences\" such as physics and maths).\n\nTo complete a master's degree in research, a student is required to write a \"mémoire\", the French equivalent of a master's thesis in other higher education systems.\n\nThe word \"dissertation\" in French is reserved for shorter (1,000–2,000 words), more generic academic treatises.\n\nThe defense is called a \"soutenance\".\n\nIn Germany, an academic thesis is called \"Abschlussarbeit\" or, more specifically, the basic name of the degree complemented by \"-arbeit\" (rough translation: \"-work\"; e.g., \"Diplomarbeit\", \"Masterarbeit\", \"Doktorarbeit\"). For bachelor's and master's degrees, the name can alternatively be complemented by \"-thesis\" instead (e.g., \"Bachelorthesis\").\n\nLength is often given in page count and depends upon departments, faculties, and fields of study. A bachelor's thesis is often 40–60 pages long, a diploma thesis and a master's thesis usually 60–100. The required submission for a doctorate is called a \"Dissertation\" or \"Doktorarbeit\". The submission for a Habilitation, which is an academic qualification, not an academic degree, is called \"Habilitationsschrift\", not \"Habilitationsarbeit\". PhD by publication is becoming increasingly common in many fields of study.\n\nA doctoral degree is often earned with multiple levels of a Latin honors remark for the thesis ranging from \"summa cum laude\" (best) to \"rite\" (duly). A thesis can also be rejected with a Latin remark (\"non-rite\", \"non-sufficit\" or worst as \"sub omni canone\"). Bachelor's and master's theses receive numerical grades from 1.0 (best) to 5.0 (failed).\n\nIn India the thesis defense is called a (Latin for \"by live voice\") examination (\"viva\" in short). Involved in the \"viva\" are two examiners and the candidate. One examiner is an academic from the candidate's own university department (but not one of the candidate's supervisors) and the other is an external examiner from a different university.\n\nIn India, PG Qualifications such as MSc Physics accompanies submission of dissertation in Part I and submission of a Project (a working model of an innovation) in Part II. Engineering qualifications such as BTech, B.E., MTech or M.E. also involves submission of dissertation. In all the cases, the dissertation can be extended for summer internship at certain research and development organizations or also as PhD synopsis.\n\nIn Indonesia, the term thesis is used specifically to refer to master's theses. The undergraduate thesis is called \"skripsi\", while the doctoral dissertation is called \"disertasi\". In general, those three terms are usually called as \"tugas akhir\" (final assignment), which is mandatory for the completion of a degree. Undergraduate students usually begin to write their final assignment in their third, fourth or fifth enrollment year, depends on the requirements of their respective disciplines and universities. In some universities, students are required to write a \"proposal skripsi\" or \"proposal tesis\" (thesis proposal) before they could write their final assignment. If the thesis proposal is considered to fulfill the qualification by the academic examiners, students then may proceed to write their final assignment.\n\nIn Iran, usually students are required to present a thesis in their Master's degree and a dissertation in their Doctorate degree, both of which requiring the students to defend their research before a committee and gaining their approval. Most of the norms and rules of writing a thesis or a dissertation are influenced by the French higher education system.\n\nIn Italy there are normally three types of thesis. In order of complexity: one for the Laurea (equivalent to the UK Bachelor's Degree), another one for the Laurea Magistrale (equivalent to the UK Master's Degree) and then a thesis to complete the Dottorato di Ricerca (PhD). Thesis requirements vary greatly between degrees and disciplines, ranging from as low as 3–4 ECTS credits to more than 30. Thesis work is mandatory for the completion of a degree.\n\nMalaysian universities often follow the British model for dissertations and degrees. However, a few universities follow the United States model for theses and dissertations. Some public universities have both British and US style PhD programmes. Branch campuses of British, Australian and Middle East universities in Malaysia use the respective models of the home campuses.\n\nIn Pakistan, at undergraduate level the thesis is usually called final year project, as it is completed in the senior year of the degree, the name project usually implies that the work carried out is less extensive than a thesis and bears lesser credit hours too. The undergraduate level project is presented through an elaborate written report and a presentation to the advisor, a board of faculty members and students. At graduate level however, i.e. in MS, some universities allow students to accomplish a project of 6 credits or a thesis of 9 credits, at least one publication is normally considered enough for the awarding of the degree with project and is considered mandatory for the awarding of a degree with thesis. A written report and a public thesis defense is mandatory, in the presence of a board of senior researchers, consisting of members from an outside organization or a university. A PhD candidate is supposed to accomplish extensive research work to fulfill the dissertation requirements with international publications being a mandatory requirement. The defense of the research work is done publicly.\n\nIn the Philippines, an academic thesis is named by the degree, such as bachelor/undergraduate thesis or masteral thesis. However, in Philippine English, the term \"doctorate\" is typically replaced with \"doctoral\" (as in the case of \"doctoral dissertation\"), though in official documentation the former is still used. The terms \"thesis\" and \"dissertation\" are commonly used interchangeably in everyday language yet it generally understood that a \"thesis\" refers to bachelor/undergraduate and master academic work while a \"dissertation\" is named for doctorate work.\n\nThe Philippine system is influenced by American collegiate system, in that it requires a \"research project\" to be submitted before being allowed to write a thesis. This project is mostly given as a prerequisite writing course to the actual thesis and is accomplished in the term period before; supervision is provided by one professor assigned to a class. This project is later to be presented in front of an academic panel, often the entire faculty of an academic department, with their recommendations contributing to the acceptance, revision, or rejection of the initial topic. In addition, the presentation of the research project will help the candidate choose their primary thesis adviser.\n\nAn undergraduate thesis is completed in the final year of the degree alongside existing seminar (lecture) or laboratory courses, and is often divided into two presentations: \"proposal\" and \"thesis\" presentations (though this varies across universities), whereas a master thesis or doctorate dissertation is accomplished in the last term alone and is defended once. In most universities, a thesis is required for the bestowment of a degree to a candidate alongside a number of units earned throughout their academic period of stay, though for practice and skills-based degrees a \"practicum\" and a written report can be achieved instead. The examination board often consists of 3 to 5 examiners, often professors in a university (with a Masters or PhD degree) depending on the university's examination rules. Required word length, complexity, and contribution to scholarship varies widely across universities in the country.\n\nIn Poland, a bachelor's degree usually requires a \"praca licencjacka\" (bachelor's thesis) or the similar level degree in engineering requires a \"praca inżynierska\" (engineer's thesis/bachelor's thesis), the master's degree requires a \"praca magisterska\" (master's thesis). The academic dissertation for a PhD is called a \"dysertacja\" or \"praca doktorska\". The submission for the Habilitation is called \"praca habilitacyjna\" or \"dysertacja habilitacyjna\". Thus the term \"dysertacja\" is reserved for PhD and Habilitation degrees. All the theses need to be \"defended\" by the author during a special examination for the given degree. Examinations for PhD and Habilitation degrees are public.\n\nIn Portugal and Brazil, a dissertation (\"dissertação\") is required for completion of a master. The defense is done in a public presentation in which teachers, students, and the general public can participate. For the PhD, a thesis (\"tese\") is presented for defense in a public exam. The exam typically extends over 3 hours. The examination board typically involves 5 to 6 scholars (including the advisor) or other experts with a PhD degree (generally at least half of them must be external to the university where the candidate defends the thesis, but it may depend on the University). Each university / faculty defines the length of these documents, and it can vary also in respect to the domains (a thesis in fields like philosophy, history, geography, etc., usually has more pages than a thesis in mathematics, computer science, statistics, etc.) but typical numbers of pages are around 60–80 for MSc and 150–250 for PhD.\n\nIn Brazil the Undergraduate Thesis is called \"TCC\" or \"Trabalho de Conclusão de Curso\" (Course Conclusion Work).\n\nIn Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, and Ukraine an academic dissertation or thesis is called what can be literally translated as a \"master's degree work\" (thesis), whereas the word \"dissertation\" is reserved for doctoral theses (Candidate of Sciences). To complete a master's degree, a student is required to write a thesis and to then defend the work publicly. The length of this manuscript usually is given in page count and depends upon educational institution, its departments, faculties, and fields of study \n\nAt universities in Slovenia, an academic thesis called \"diploma thesis\" is a prerequisite for completing undergraduate studies. The thesis used to be 40–60 pages long, but has been reduced to 20–30 pages in new Bologna process programmes. To complete Master's studies, a candidate must write \"magistrsko delo\" (Master's thesis) that is longer and more detailed than the undergraduate thesis. The required submission for the doctorate is called \"doktorska disertacija\" (doctoral dissertation). In pre Bologna programmes students were able to skip the preparation and presentation of a Master's thesis and continue straightforward towards doctorate.\n\nIn Slovakia, higher education is completed by defending a thesis, which is called \"bachelor's thesis\" \"bakalárska práca\" for bachelors programme, master's thesis or \"diplomová práca\" for master's degrees, and also doctor of medicine or dentistry degrees and dissertation \"dizertačná práca\" for Philosophiae doctor (PhD.) degree.\n\nIn Sweden, there are different types of theses. Practices and definitions vary between fields but commonly include the \"C thesis\"/Bachelor thesis, which corresponds to 15 HP or 10 weeks of independent studies, \"D thesis\"/'/Magister/one year master's thesis, which corresponds to 15 HP or 10 weeks of independent studies and \"E Thesis\"/two-year master's thesis, which corresponds to 30 HP or 20 weeks of independent studies. After that there are two types of post graduate degrees, Licentiate dissertation and PhD dissertation. A licentiate degree is approximately \"half a PhD\" in terms of size and scope of the thesis. Swedish PhD studies should in theory last for four years, including course work and thesis work, but as many PhD students also teach, the PhD often takes longer to complete.\n\nOutside the academic community, the terms \"thesis\" and \"dissertation\" are interchangeable. At universities in the United Kingdom, the term \"thesis\" is usually associated with PhD/EngD (doctoral) and research master's degrees, while \"dissertation\" is the more common term for a substantial project submitted as part of a taught master's degree or an undergraduate degree (e.g. BA, BSc, BMus, BEd, BEng etc.).\n\nThesis word lengths may differ by faculty/department and are set by individual universities.\n\nA wide range of supervisory arrangements can be found in the British academy, from single supervisors (more usual for undergraduate and Masters level work) to supervisory teams of up to three supervisors. In teams, there will often be a Director of Studies, usually someone with broader experience (perhaps having passed some threshold of successful supervisions). The Director may be involved with regular supervision along with the other supervisors, or may have more of an oversight role, with the other supervisors taking on the more day-to-day responsibilities of supervision.\n\nIn some U.S. doctoral programs, the \"dissertation\" can take up the major part of the student's total time spent (along with two or three years of classes) and may take years of full-time work to complete. At most universities, \"dissertation\" is the term for the required submission for the doctorate, and \"thesis\" refers only to the master's degree requirement.\n\n\"Thesis\" is also used to describe a cumulative project for a bachelor's degree and is more common at selective colleges and universities, or for those seeking admittance to graduate school or to obtain an honors academic designation. These projects are called \"senior projects\" or \"senior theses\"; they are generally done in the senior year near graduation after having completed other courses, the independent study period, and the internship or student teaching period (the completion of most of the requirements before the writing of the paper ensures adequate knowledge and aptitude for the challenge). Unlike a dissertation or master's thesis, they are not as long and they do not require a novel contribution to knowledge or even a very narrow focus on a set subtopic. Like them, they can be lengthy and require months of work, they require supervision by at least one professor adviser, they must be focused on a certain area of knowledge, and they must use an appreciable amount of scholarly citations. They may or may not be defended before a committee but usually are not; there is generally no preceding examination before the writing of the paper, except for at very few colleges. Because of the nature of the graduate thesis or dissertation having to be more narrow and more novel, the result of original research, these usually have a smaller proportion of the work that is cited from other sources, though the fact that they are lengthier may mean they still have total citations.\n\nSpecific undergraduate courses, especially writing-intensive courses or courses taken by upperclassmen, may also require one or more extensive written assignments referred to variously as theses, essays, or papers. Increasingly, high schools are requiring students to complete a senior project or senior thesis on a chosen topic during the final year as a prerequisite for graduation. The extended essay component of the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme, offered in a growing number of American high schools, is another example of this trend.\n\nGenerally speaking, a dissertation is judged as to whether or not it makes an original and unique contribution to scholarship. Lesser projects (a master's thesis, for example) are judged by whether or not they demonstrate mastery of available scholarship in the presentation of an idea.\n\nThe required complexity or quality of research of a thesis may vary significantly among universities or programs.\n\nOne of the requirements for certain advanced degrees is often an oral examination (called a \"viva voce\" examination or just \"viva\" in the UK and certain other English-speaking countries). This examination normally occurs after the dissertation is finished but before it is submitted to the university, and may comprise a presentation (often public) by the student and questions posed by an examining committee or jury. In North America, an initial oral examination in the field of specialization may take place just before the student settles down to work on the dissertation. An additional oral exam may take place after the dissertation is completed and is known as a thesis or dissertation \"defense\", which at some universities may be a mere formality and at others may result in the student being required to make significant revisions.\n\nThe result of the examination may be given immediately following deliberation by the examiners (in which case the candidate may immediately be considered to have received his or her degree), or at a later date, in which case the examiners may prepare a defense report that is forwarded to a Board or Committee of Postgraduate Studies, which then officially recommends the candidate for the degree.\n\nPotential decisions (or \"verdicts\") include:\n\n\n\n\n\nAt most North American institutions the latter two verdicts are extremely rare, for two reasons. First, to obtain the status of doctoral candidates, graduate students typically write a qualifying examination or comprehensive examination, which often includes an oral defense. Students who pass the qualifying examination are deemed capable of completing scholarly work independently and are allowed to proceed with working on a dissertation. Second, since the thesis supervisor (and the other members of the advisory committee) will normally have reviewed the thesis extensively before recommending the student proceed to the defense, such an outcome would be regarded as a major failure not only on the part of the candidate but also by the candidate's supervisor (who should have recognized the substandard quality of the dissertation long before the defense was allowed to take place). It is also fairly rare for a thesis to be accepted without any revisions; the most common outcome of a defense is for the examiners to specify minor revisions (which the candidate typically completes in a few days or weeks).\n\nAt universities on the British pattern it is not uncommon for theses at the \"viva\" stage to be subject to major revisions in which a substantial rewrite is required, sometimes followed by a new \"viva\". Very rarely, the thesis may be awarded the lesser degree of M.Phil (Master of Philosophy) instead, preventing the candidate from resubmitting the thesis.\n\nIn Australia, doctoral theses are usually examined by three examiners although some, like the Australian Catholic University and the University of New South Wales, have shifted to using only two examiners; without a live defense except in extremely rare exceptions. In the case of a master's degree by research the thesis is usually examined by only two examiners. Typically one of these examiners will be from within the candidate's own department; the other(s) will usually be from other universities and often from overseas. Following submission of the thesis, copies are sent by mail to examiners and then reports sent back to the institution.\n\nSimilar to a master's degree by research thesis, a thesis for the research component of a master's degree by coursework is also usually examined by two examiners, one from the candidate's department and one from another university. For an Honours year, which is a fourth year in addition to the usual three-year bachelor's degree, the thesis is also examined by two examiners, though both are usually from the candidate's own department. Honours and Master's theses sometimes require an oral defense before they are accepted.\n\nIn Germany, a thesis is usually examined with an oral examination. This applies to almost all Diplom, Magister, master's and doctoral degrees as well as to most bachelor's degrees. However, a process that allows for revisions of the thesis is usually only implemented for doctoral degrees.\n\nThere are several different kinds of oral examinations used in practice. The \"Disputation\", also called \"Verteidigung\" (\"defense\"), is usually public (at least to members of the university) and is focused on the topic of the thesis. In contrast, the \"Rigorosum\" is not held in public and also encompasses fields in addition to the topic of the thesis. The \"Rigorosum\" is only common for doctoral degrees. Another term for an oral examination is \"Kolloquium\", which generally refers to a usually public scientific discussion and is often used synonymously with \"Verteidigung\".\n\nIn each case, what exactly is expected differs between universities and between faculties. Some universities also demand a combination of several of these forms.\n\nLike the British model, the PHD or MPhil student is required to submit their theses or dissertation for examination by two or three examiners. The first examiner is from the university concerned, the second examiner is from another local university and the third examiner is from a suitable foreign university (usually from Commonwealth countries). The choice of examiners must be approved by the university senate. In some public universities, a PhD or MPhil candidate may also have to show a number publications in peer reviewed academic journals as part of the requirement. An oral viva is conducted after the examiners have submitted their reports to the university. The oral viva session is attended by the Oral Viva chairman, a rapporteur with a PhD qualification, the first examiner, the second examiner and sometimes the third examiner.\n\nBranch campuses of British, Australian and Middle East universities in Malaysia use the respective models of the home campuses to examine their PhD or MPhil candidates.\n\nIn the Philippines, a thesis is followed by an oral defense. In most universities, this applies to all bachelor, master, and doctorate degrees. However, the oral defense is held in once per semester (usually in the middle or by the end) with a presentation of revisions (so-called \"plenary presentation\") at the end of each semester. The oral defense is typically not held in public for bachelor and master oral defenses, however a colloquium is held for doctorate degrees.\n\nIn Portugal, a thesis is examined with an oral defense, which includes an initial presentation by the candidate followed by an extensive questioning/answering period. Typical duration for the total exam is 1 hour 30 minutes for the MSc and 3 hours for the PhD.\n\nIn North America, the \"thesis defense\" or \"oral defense\" is the final examination for doctoral candidates, and sometimes for master's candidates.\n\nThe examining committee normally consists of the thesis committee, usually a given number of professors mainly from the student's university plus his or her primary supervisor, an external examiner (someone not otherwise connected to the university), and a chair person. Each committee member will have been given a completed copy of the dissertation prior to the defense, and will come prepared to ask questions about the thesis itself and the subject matter. In many schools, master's thesis defenses are restricted to the examinee and the examiners, but doctoral defenses are open to the public.\n\nThe typical format will see the candidate giving a short (20–40-minute) presentation of his or her research, followed by one to two hours of questions.\n\nAt some U.S. institutions, a longer public lecture (known as a \"thesis talk\" or \"thesis seminar\") by the candidate will accompany the defense itself, in which case only the candidate, the examiners, and other members of the faculty may attend the actual defense.\n\nA student in Ukraine or Russia has to complete a thesis and then defend it in front of their department. Sometimes the defense meeting is made up of the learning institute's professionals and sometimes the students peers are allowed to view or join in. After the presentation and defense of the thesis, the final conclusion of the department should be that none of them have reservations on the content and quality of the thesis.\n\nA conclusion on the thesis has to be approved by the rector of the educational institute. This conclusion (final grade so to speak) of the thesis can be defended/argued not only at the thesis council, but also in any other thesis council of Russia or Ukraine.\n\nThe (DEA) can last two years and candidates must complete coursework and demonstrate their ability to research the specific topics they have studied. After completing this part of the PhD, students begin a dissertation on a set topic. The dissertation must reach a minimum length depending on the subject and it is valued more highly if it contains field research. Once candidates have finished their written dissertations, they must present them before a committee. Following this presentation, the examiners will ask questions.\n\nIn Hong Kong, Ireland and the United Kingdom, the thesis defense is called a (Latin for \"by live voice\") examination (\"viva\" for short). A typical \"viva\" lasts for approximately 3 hours, though there is no formal time limit. Involved in the \"viva\" are two examiners and the candidate. Usually, one examiner is an academic from the candidate's own university department (but not one of the candidate's supervisors) and the other is an external examiner from a different university. Increasingly, the examination may involve a third academic, the 'chair'; this person, from the candidate's institution, acts as an impartial observer with oversight of the examination process to ensure that the examination is fair. The 'chair' does not ask academic questions of the candidate.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there are only two or at most three examiners, and in many universities the examination is held in private. The candidate's primary supervisor is not permitted to ask or answer questions during the viva, and their presence is not necessary. However, some universities permit members of the faculty or the university to attend. At the University of Oxford, for instance, any member of the University may attend a DPhil viva (the University's regulations require that details of the examination and its time and place be published formally in advance) provided he or she attends in full academic dress.\n\nA submission of the thesis is the last formal requirement for most students after the defense. By the final deadline, the student must submit a complete copy of the thesis to the appropriate body within the accepting institution, along with the appropriate forms, bearing the signatures of the primary supervisor, the examiners, and, in some cases, the head of the student's department. Other required forms may include library authorizations (giving the university library permission to make the thesis available as part of its collection) and copyright permissions (in the event that the student has incorporated copyrighted materials in the thesis). Many large scientific publishing houses (e.g. Taylor & Francis, Elsevier) use copyright agreements that allow the authors to incorporate their published articles into dissertations without separate authorization.\n\nFailure to submit the thesis by the deadline may result in graduation (and granting of the degree) being delayed. At most U.S. institutions, there will also be various fees (for binding, microfilming, copyright registration, and the like), which must be paid before the degree will be granted.\n\nOnce all the paperwork is in order, copies of the thesis may be made available in one or more university libraries. Specialist abstracting services exist to publicize the content of these beyond the institutions in which they are produced. Many institutions now insist on submission of digitized as well as printed copies of theses; the digitized versions of successful theses are often made available online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23331414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23331414", "title": "View-limiting device", "text": "View-limiting device\n\nIn aviation training, a view-limiting device simulates instrument meteorological conditions (IMC) by restricting a pilot's field of view only to the instrument panel. They are worn by pilots who are working toward an instrument rating, which allows a pilot to fly into conditions that are less than favorable for visual flight. They are also used by instrument-rated pilots for practicing instrument flight to maintain currency for acting as pilot in command under instrument flight rules.\n\n"}
{"id": "46973622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46973622", "title": "World Solar Challenge 2013", "text": "World Solar Challenge 2013\n\nThe 2013 World Solar Challenge was one of a biennial series of solar-powered car races, covering through the Australian Outback, from Darwin, Northern Territory to Adelaide, South Australia.\n\nIn all, 37 teams competed of which 16 completed the course. There were three classes: Cruiser, Challenge and Adventure. The Cruiser class was won by Eindhoven University of Technology of the Netherlands; the Challenge class by Nuon Solar Team of the Netherlands; and the Adventure class by the Australian Aurora team.\n\n"}
{"id": "10349489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10349489", "title": "Year Three", "text": "Year Three\n\nYear 3 is an educational year group in schools in many countries including England, Wales, Australia and New Zealand. It is usually the third year of compulsory education and incorporates students aged between seven and nine.\n\nIn Australia, Year 3 is usually the third year of compulsory education. Although there are slight variations between the states, most children in Year 3 are aged between eight and nine.\n\nIn New Zealand, Year 3 is the third year of compulsory education. Children are aged seven or eight in this year group.\n\nIn schools in England Year 3 is the third year after Reception. It is the third full year of compulsory education, with children being admitted who are aged 7 before 1 September in any given academic year. It is also the first year of Key Stage 2 in which the National Curriculum is taught.\n\nYear 3 is usually the fourth year of primary school or the first year group in a Junior School. In some areas of England, Year 3 is the final or penultimate year group in First school.\n\nIn schools in Wales Year 3 is the third year after Reception. It is currently the third full year of compulsory education, with children being admitted who are aged 7 before 1 September in any given academic year. It is the first year group in Key Stage 2.\n\nIn Northern Ireland and Scotland, the third year of compulsory education is called Primary Three, and pupils generally start at the age of 6.\n"}
