{"id": "48914569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48914569", "title": "Adele Lewisohn Lehman", "text": "Adele Lewisohn Lehman\n\nAdele Lewisohn Lehman (May 17, 1882 – August 11, 1965) was an American philanthropist and member of the Lehman family.\n\nAdele Lewisohn Lehman was born to a Jewish family on May 17, 1882 in New York City, the daughter of Emma (née Cahn) and Adolph Lewisohn.\n\nHer father and his brothers (Julius and Leonard) were known as \"copper kings\" after making their fortune opening copper mines to fuel demand for copper wire with the advent of electricity; her father was also a leader in prison reform.\n\nLehman attended the Anne Brown School and then Barnard College.\n\nComing from wealth and marrying into wealth, Lehman was a prominent philanthropist. Although Lehman was an honorary chairperson for the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies (founded by her husband Arthur Lehman), most of her philanthropic efforts were secular.\nShe was a board member of the New York Service for the Orthopedically Handicapped; was both a founder and board member of the Arthur Lehman Counseling Service; served as the president of the East Side Free School for Crippled Children; the Purple Box, an outlet for the sale of goods made by disabled women; served as director of the Adoption Bureau; was a board member of the New York Board of Charities; a member of the Crusade for Children (part of the Child Welfare League of America); served as vice president of the League of Women Voters until 1945; and served on the board of directors for the Philharmonic Symphony Society of New York (elected 1947); and was a board member of the Hebrew Sheltering Guardian Society. In 1957, the Adele Lehman Hall at Barnard College was named in her honor; the hall held the Wollman Library until 2015.\n\nOn November 25, 1901, she married Arthur Lehman (1873-1936), son of Babette (née Newgass) and Mayer Lehman. Arthur belong to the prominent Lehman family: his father was a co-founder of Lehman Brothers; his brother Herbert H. Lehman, was a former governor and senator of New York; and his brother, Irving Lehman, was a former judge of the New York state court of appeals. \nThey had three daughters: Dorothy Lehman Bernhard (1904-1969), Helen Lehman Buttenwieser (1905-1989), and Frances Lehman Loeb (1906-1996).\nLehman died of a cerebral hemorrhage on August 11, 1965 at her home in Purchase, New York. \nLehman belonged to Temple Emanu-El in Manhattan.\nShe was also a championship tennis player and won thirty-eight competitions.\n\nLehman and her husband collected paintings, decorative arts, bronzes, ceramics, and tapestries from the 14th to 20th centuries. Their collection consisted of Italian primitives, and works by Henry Raeburn, Jean Baptiste Greuze, Francesco Guardi, Corneille de Lyon, Claude Lorrain, Gustave Courbet, Jan Van Goyen, Aert van der Neer, Albert Cuyp, Jacob Isaacksz van Ruisdael, and Thomas Lawrence. After the death of her husband, she continued to expand her collection purchasing works by Van Gogh, Rousseau, Paul Gauguin, Renoir, Eugene Boudin, Odilon Redon, George Seurat, Paul Signac, Édouard Vuillard, Matisse, Derain, Whistler, Childe Hassam, and Degas. Upon her death, she left much of her collection to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Fogg Museum.\n"}
{"id": "380532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380532", "title": "Biogen", "text": "Biogen\n\nBiogen Inc. (previously known as Biogen Idec) is an American multinational biotechnology company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, specializing in the discovery, development, and delivery of therapies for the treatment of neurodegenerative, hematologic, and autoimmune diseases to patients worldwide.\n\nBiogen was founded in 1978 in Geneva by several prominent biologists, including Kenneth Murray of the University of Edinburgh, Phillip Allen Sharp of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Walter Gilbert of Harvard (who served as CEO during the start-up phase), Heinz Schaller, University of Heidelberg and Charles Weissmann, University of Zurich (who contributed the first product interferon alpha). Gilbert and Sharp were subsequently honored with Nobel Prizes: Gilbert was recognized in 1980 with the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work in understanding DNA sequencing, while Sharp received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1993 for his discovery of split genes.\n\nIn 2003, Biogen merged with San Diego, California-based IDEC Pharmaceuticals (formed in 1985 by Ivor Royston, Howard Birndorf and others) and adopted the name Biogen Idec. After the merger, Biogen Idec became the 3rd largest Biotechnology company in the world. \n\nFollowing shifts in research core areas, the company has since shortened its name, reverting to simply Biogen. Biogen stock is a component of several stock indices such as the S&P 100, S&P 500, S&P 1500, and NASDAQ-100 and the company is listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange under the ticker symbol, BIIB.\n\nIn May 2006, the company announced it would acquire cancer specialist, Conforma Therapeutics for $250 million. Later in the same month, the company announced its intention to acquire Fumapharm AG, consolidating ownership of Fumaderm and BG-12, an oral fumarate, which is being studied for the treatment of multiple sclerosis and psoriasis.\n\nIn January 2007, the company announced it would acquire Syntonix Pharmaceuticals for up to $120 million, gaining Syntonix's lead product for hemophilia B as well as the technology for developing inhalable treatments.\n\nIn February 2013, Bloomberg broke the news that Biogen was planning the pay Elan $3.25 billion for the full rights to Tysabri, used to treat multiple sclerosis.\n\nIn January 2015 the company announced it will acquire Convergence Pharmaceuticals for up to $675 million, with the acquisition aiming to accelerate the development of Convergence's pipeline, in-particular CNV1014802 – a Phase II small molecule sodium channel blocking candidate. In October 2015 the company announced it will lay off 11% of its workforce, effective immediately.\n\nIn May 2016 the company announced that it will spin off its hemophilia drug business (Eloctate and Alprolix) into a public company. In August, the company announced that the spun off company would be called Bioverativ, in order to show heritage with Biogen. The company will trade on the NASDAQ exchange under the ticker symbol BIVV and will look to be spun off in early 2017.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers and acquisitions and historical predecessors (this is not a comprehensive list):\n\nFor the fiscal year 2017, Biogen reported earnings of US$2.539 billion, with an annual revenue of US$12.274 billion, an increase of 7.2% over the previous fiscal cycle. Biogen's shares traded at over $289 per share, and its market capitalization was valued at over US$63 billion in November 2018. The company ranked 245 on the 2018 Fortune 500 list of the largest United States corporations by revenue.\n\nBiogen has focused its R&D efforts on the discovery and development of treatments for patients with high unmet medical needs in the areas of neurology, hematology and immunology.\n\nInvestigational MS medicines:\n\n\nBiogen has several candidates in Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials in neurodegenerative and immunological diseases including MS, Alzheimer's disease, neuropathic pain, spinal muscular atrophy and lupus nephritis:\n\n\nBiogen also has several development agreements in place with Ionis Pharmaceuticals to collaborate to leverage antisense technology in advancing the treatment of neurological disorders.\n\nIn February 2012, Biogen formalized a joint venture with Samsung, creating Samsung Bioepis. This joint venture brings Biogen's expertise and capabilities in protein engineering, cell line development, and recombinant biologics manufacturing to position the joint venture so Biogen can participate in the emerging market for biosimilars.\n\nIn early 2014, Biogen entered into an agreement with Eisai, Inc., to jointly develop and commercialize two of their candidates for Alzheimer's disease, which have the potential to reduce Aβ plaques that form in the brains of patients, as well as to slow the formation of new plaques, potentially improving symptoms and suppressing disease progression.\n\nBiogen also has since 2015 an agreement with AGTC for the development of gene therapy for ophthalmologic diseases such as X-linked retinoschisis (XLRS) and X-linked Retinitis pigmentosa (XLRP), and up to three other genetic diseases. To this aim, Biogen paid AGTC $124 million, including an equity investment of $30 millions, and up to 1,1 billion in future milestones.\n\n"}
{"id": "16260299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16260299", "title": "Board-only", "text": "Board-only\n\nA board-only organization is one that is managed by a board that is self-appointed or otherwise not accountable (for all practical purposes) to a base of members through elections, a delegate body, etc. The growing trend to switch toward this type of structure is controversial. O'Regan & Oster have found that large, more representativeness boards score well on a number of indicators. Ostrower found that organizations with at least one governing body member directly elected by membership performs better on a number of governance indicators. However, some organizations find it difficult to maintain a membership-based structure in the wake of increasingly difficult-to-meet requirements for such organizations under the Model Nonprofit Corporation Act.\n"}
{"id": "647937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=647937", "title": "Bojan Križaj", "text": "Bojan Križaj\n\nBojan Križaj () (born 3 January 1957) is a Slovenian, back then Yugoslavian, former alpine skier. During his international career he competed for the then-existing Yugoslavia. He competed at three Winter Olympics.\n\nKrižaj, born in Kranj, was a member of a well known Tržič ski family so he started skiing at the age of 3. In the season 1976/77 he received the first World Cup point, qualified among the 15 best slalom runners and later during that season in Madonna di Campiglio he hit his first top 3 podium. On 20 January 1980 he achieved the first Yugoslav World Cup victory in Wengen, Switzerland and later he won seven more times, thus still being Yugoslavia's and Slovenia's most successful male alpine skier to date.\n\nAt 1980 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid, New York, U.S., he reached the fourth place in giant slalom, missing the bronze medal by only two hundredths of second. Four years later he took the athlete's oath at the opening ceremony for Sarajevo's 1984 Winter Olympics. He caused a stir when he spoke the oath not in Croatian or Serbian but in Slovene. Despite great expectations of the Yugoslav audience he finished ninth in giant slalom, much less than expected. Križaj should also have competed at 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, but he got injured a few days before the event.\n\nHis most successful World Championship was in 1982 in Schladming, Austria where he received the silver medal in slalom.\n\nHis most successful World Cup season was 1986/87 when he received the small crystal globe for the season's best slalom runner (that was the only men's crystal globe of that season not won by Pirmin Zurbriggen). Beside that he was the second in World Cup slalom standings in the 1979/80 and 1985/86 seasons and third in the 1980/81 season. His best position in overall World Cup standings was the 4th place in 1979/80.\n\nHe concluded his career in 1988 at the race in Saalbach, Austria where he stepped off the skis right at the end of the track and walked into the finish area.\n\nSince his skiing retirement he worked in many fields, including as importer of Austrian brand beer and adviser for ski products in Elan company.\n\nIn March 2006 he became Head of Slovenian Ski Pool.\n\n<small>From 1948 through 1980, the Winter Olympics were also the World Championships for alpine skiing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50169235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50169235", "title": "Brian Cassin", "text": "Brian Cassin\n\nBrian Jude Cassin (born September 1967) is an Irish businessman, the CEO of Experian.\n\nCassin was born in September 1967. He is a graduate of Trinity College, Dublin.\n\nHe is the CEO of Experian, board member since 16 July 2014, when he was the CFO, and a non-executive director of Sainsbury's.\n\nCassin previously held senior roles at Baring Brothers International and the London Stock Exchange and was a managing director of the investment bank Greenhill & Co.\n"}
{"id": "45705954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45705954", "title": "Bristol Temple Quarter Enterprise Zone", "text": "Bristol Temple Quarter Enterprise Zone\n\nBristol Temple Quarter Enterprise Zone is an enterprise zone in Bristol, England, focused on creative, high-tech and low-carbon industries. Covering an area of , it is based around Bristol Temple Meads railway station, which is being redeveloped by Network Rail. It also contains the area around the existing Temple Quay development, and the Silverthorne Lane and Avon Riverside areas. It includes the site of the planned Bristol Arena, and the site of the University of Bristol's planned Temple Quarter Campus.\n\nThe creation of the zone was announced by Chancellor George Osborne in the Budget of March 2011, and it was launched in 2012. The zone offers streamlined planning controls and reduced business rates. Rates generated by the zone are channelled to five other areas in the region, designated Enterprise Areas. These are Avonmouth (focusing on manufacturing and distribution), Bath (media and publishing), Emersons Green including Bristol and Bath Science Park, Filton (high-tech) and Weston-super-Mare (business services). Development of the enterprise zone is coordinated by West of England Local Enterprise Partnership, Bristol City Council, the Homes and Communities Agency (HCA) and Network Rail.\n\nNetwork Rail is redeveloping the station, in conjunction with its electrification of the Great Western line which will cut the journey time from Temple Meads to London Paddington station to 80 minutes. Station Approach Road will be turned into a public square and the station's main entrance moved to the north side of the station. In January 2015, the council announced changes to the layout of the roads around the station, with the removal of Temple Circus roundabout and provision of better routes for pedestrians and cyclists.\n\nAcross Station Approach from the station, the Temple Gate redevelopment by TCN UK is a creative and digital campus for small and medium-sized enterprises. Redeveloped buildings include Bristol and Exeter House and Temple Studios. The latter opened in 2013. \nEngine Shed is a new use for part of the Old Station, Brunel's original building, in partnership with the University of Bristol. Opened in December 2013, it hosts business incubators, including SETsquared and WebStart Bristol, which support a cluster of hi-tech startup companies. Engine Shed leases its office space to the incubators, who in turn sub-let space on more flexible terms to the companies, which are selected for their high growth potential, and high expected benefits for the regional economy. In December 2015, with the building fully occupied, additional space was made available in the form of Boxworks, which was rapidly constructed by ForwardSpace next to Engine Shed using 20 shipping containers. This was intended to be a temporary solution until an Engine Shed 2 is built. Public consultation for Engine Shed 2 took place in November 2016.\n\nIn November 2016, the University of Bristol announced that it will build a £300 million Temple Quarter Campus for c. 5,000 students, directly to the east of the station. It will replace an empty sorting office building, formerly operated by Royal Mail but derelict since 1997. The campus, which will include a new business school, digital research facilities and a student village, is expected to open in 2021. It will also host Engine Shed 2.\n\nThe zone's biggest development site, sometimes known as 'Arena Island', is south of the station and across the River Avon. Formerly occupied by the Bristol Bath Road depot, the site was acquired by the Homes and Communities Agency. In February 2014 Bristol Council agreed the financing of the arena, which including funding provided by the West of England Local Enterprise Partnership totals £91 million. The winner of the competition to design the arena, the architectural firm Populous, was announced in March 2015. In the same month, the HCA gave the arena site to Bristol City Council.\n\nIn 2013 the HCA agreed to fund an £11 million road bridge over the river, to link Cattle Market Road to the site of the planned arena. Construction of the bridge took place from March to September 2015. It has lanes for cars, bicycles and pedestrians. In March 2016, the bridge was named Brock's Bridge, after William Brock (1830–1907), a local builder and entrepreneur.\n\nTemple Quay is an area of mixed-use development on a site to the northwest of the station, where the station's goods yard was formerly located. The development project was initiated in 1989 by Bristol Development Corporation, who originally called it Quay Point. In 1995, the corporation transferred its rights on the site to English Partnerships, and development started in 1998. The developer was Castlemore Securities. By 2002, the development south of Bristol Floating Harbour was largely complete and a new phase was started on the other side of the harbour, called Temple Quay North. Castlemore went into administration in 2009, but development continued in the hands of the administrator, PricewaterhouseCoopers.\n\nIn 2015, Entrepreneurial Spark, a UK-wide business incubator network, opened a hub on the top floor of the Royal Bank of Scotland's Trinity Quay building in Temple Quay North. Managed by NatWest, the hub provides free space, facilities and guidance for startups.\n\nThe Avon Riverside area extends along the A4 Bath Road, and Bristol's so-called 'media mile', as far as the site of Paintworks, an existing mixed-use development by Verve. Phase III of Paintworks will be the development of a 'creative skills hub' for digital and media businesses, in partnership with Creative Skillset.\n\n"}
{"id": "24806060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24806060", "title": "Business Times (Singapore)", "text": "Business Times (Singapore)\n\nThe Business Times is an English-language financial daily based in Singapore currently owned by Singapore Press Holdings (SPH). It is currently the only daily newspaper in Singapore that focuses on business and financial news. Its average daily circulation (print and digital editions combined) as of August 2016 was 36,900, according to SPH. \"The Business Times\" is published as a broadsheet on weekdays, with a weekend edition that is published as a compact-sized paper. On October 8, 2016, The Business Times revamped its weekend edition, featuring its own luxury lifestyle magazine. The main newspaper section for the weekend was also rebooted.\n\nBT started as a supplement that was distributed three times a week with The Straits Times. On Oct 1, 1976, The Business Times became a newspaper in its own right. In June 1995, BT became the first English-language newspaper in Asia to go online. By 2000, BT's website was offering news updates throughout the day. In February 2012, BT launched a sister site BTInvest, a portal focused on finance and investment. Over the course of 2012 and 2013, BT also rolled out mobile apps, for the iPhone, iPad and Android smartphones.\n\nIn October 2014, BT simultaneously refreshed its newspaper, website, tablet and smartphone apps. One big change - applied to both its print and digital products - was in how it organises the news. Previously organised by geographical markets, BT's news is now categorised by industry sectors. The paper said that this was to underline its sharpened focus on business. Sections include: Companies & Markets, Real Estate, Banking & Finance, Energy & Commodities, Technology, Consumer, Transport and Government & Economy. Another important change for the BT website was the shift to responsive web design, which ensures that the site is readable and easy to navigate on any screen. Other key changes include an emphasis on visual journalism and data-driven journalism, and the introduction of three new blogs on the website. The 2014 redesign also won BT an Award of Excellence from the Society of News Design in March 2015.\n\nWealth is a magazine distributed with the Business Times. Targeted at high net worth individuals and highlights issues that are relevant to them in terms of their investments, wealth structuring, philanthropy and more. Genevieve Cua is the magazine's editor.\n\nThe SME Magazine is a bi-monthly magazine distributed with The Business Times, which deals with issues close to the hearts of Singapore's SMEs and entrepreneurs. Vivien Shiao is the magazine's editor.\n\nBTLuxe Christmas is an annual publication dedicated to the lifestyle needs of our high net worth readership, covering the fields of fashion, art, design, food, travel and more.\n\nThe Business Times organises the following annual business awards events in conjunction with various partners.\n\nThis was launched in 1985, with the Businessman of the Year Award. In 1986, the Enterprise Award was introduced to recognise small and medium-sized enterprises. In 1990, the Outstanding Manager Award was introduced to recognise professional managers. This was renamed the Outstanding Chief Executive of the Year Award in 1995. In 2005, the Outstanding Chief/Senior Executive (Overseas) Award was introduced, to recognise Singaporean CEOs working abroad. Winners of the four awards, known collectively as the Singapore Business Awards, are decided by a panel of judges drawn from the business sector, official agencies and academia.\n\nThis recognises excellence in corporate governance, with five awards: Best Managed Board, Best Chief Executive Officer, Best Chief Financial Officer Award, Best Investor Relations Award and Best Annual Report Award.\n\nThis was launched in 1995 to recognise local, privately held companies who have contributed to economic development in Singapore and abroad.\n\nThis was first launched in 2008 to recognise outstanding small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in Singapore. Winners receives prizes to support their growth and development, such as interest-free loans and professional services and training programmes\n\nIn 2005, BT adopted the Budding Artists' Fund, an initiative of The Old Parliament House (2002-2014). The fund was started with a conviction that no child should be denied the opportunity to pursue a training in the arts due to a lack of financial resources. Beneficiaries of BT BAF are trained primarily at The Little Arts Academy (LAA), which was set up in November 2008, to provide equal opportunity for all of them to be fully engaged in the arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "15477196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15477196", "title": "Business records exception", "text": "Business records exception\n\nThe business records exception to the U.S. hearsay rule is based on Rule 803(6) of the Federal Rules of Evidence (FRE). It is sometimes referred to as the business entry rule.\n\nBusiness records, for the purposes of the exception, are any writings or records of acts, events, conditions, opinions, or diagnosis, made at or near the time by, or from information transmitted by, a person with knowledge are admissible if kept in the regular course of business and if it was the regular course of business to make that record, unless the source of information or circumstances of preparation indicate a lack of trustworthiness.\n\nBusiness is used in Rule 803(6) to mean any business, institution, association, profession, or occupation, regardless of whether or not it is conducted for profit. Therefore, such records could conceivably include those of religious and charitable organizations, hospitals, schools, and even criminal organizations.\n\nThe basic rationale for the exception is that employees are under a duty to be accurate in observing, reporting, and recording business facts. The underlying belief is that special reliability is provided by the regularity with which the records are made and kept, as well as the incentive of employees to keep accurate records (under threat of termination or other penalty). The exception functions to allow the record to substitute for the in-court testimony of the employees, but it can only substitute for what the employee could testify about. The availability of the declarant (the employee whose testimony is being replaced by the record) is immaterial for the purposes of this exception.\n\nIt must be apparent to the judge that the record was made in the regular course of business, i.e., that it was customary practice to make such an entry and that the entrant had a duty to record it (either by law or by the terms of his employment). The record must have been made at or near the time of the act, event, or transaction at issue. Furthermore, the record must consist of matters either within the personal knowledge of the entrant or within the personal knowledge of someone with a duty to transmit the information to the entrant.\n\nThis last point was contested in the case of \"Johnson v. Lutz\", 253 N.Y. 124, 170 N.E. 517 (1930), which held that a business record is admissible only when it is made by an employee about information, obtained by him, from an informant who himself was under a business duty to impart that information. \"Johnson\" dealt specifically with the admissibility of police reports, and set a limitation on the use of such reports in court. Even though the police officer was under a duty to properly record the statements of an informant, the informant himself was under no duty to report the events correctly, and therefore the informant's statement was still inadmissible hearsay.\n\nIn the case of \"Palmer v. Hoffman\", , the Supreme Court of the United States ruled that an accident report created by a railroad company which was prepared in anticipation of a lawsuit by the victim was inadmissible, because it was not prepared in the regular course of business. Railroad travel, and not litigation, was the primary business of the railroad, and therefore the report was not considered sufficiently reliable to be admitted into evidence.\n\nFRE 803(7) states the negative counterpart of the business records exception: the use of the \"lack of a record\" to prove that a transaction or occurrence had not taken place, if it was the regular practice of the business to record such events if they had actually occurred.\n\nUnder FRE 803(17), market reports and quotations, directories, and other published compilations are considered generally admissible if they are generally used and relied upon by the public or by persons in particular occupations. Such information is considered admissible separate and apart from privately made business records described above.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19900388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19900388", "title": "Christopher Mellon", "text": "Christopher Mellon\n\nChristopher Karl Mellon (born October 2, 1957), is the former United States Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and later for Security and Information Operations. He is also a writer and businessman. He is a member of the Mellon family, and the son of Karl N. Mellon, the great-grandson of Gulf Oil co-founder William Larimer Mellon.\n\nChristopher Mellon is a descendant of Thomas Mellon, founder of Mellon Bank. He received his Bachelor of Arts Degree in Economics from Colby College in 1980. He earned his master's degree from Yale University in International Relations, with a concentration in finance and management in 1984.\n\nMellon served for 12 years in a variety of positions on Capitol Hill, including nearly 10 years as a professional staff member as a Staff Director of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. He was the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Intelligence from November 1999 until Jan 2002. From June 1998 through November 1999, Mr. Mellon served as the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Security and Information Operations. In that capacity, he was responsible for policy and programmatic oversight of information assurance, critical infrastructure protection, security, counterintelligence, and information operations strategy and integration. Mellon went to the Pentagon as a member of Secretary Cohen's transition team on January 2, 1997. Following the transition, Mellon was appointed as the Coordinator for Advanced Concepts and Program Integration, Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, concentrating on encryption and information assurance issues. From November 1997 to June 1998, he served as the Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Intelligence Policy, providing advice on a range of intelligence issues. Before entering the private sector, Mellon returned to Capitol Hill where he served as the Minority Staff Director of the Senate Intelligence Committee for Senator John D. Rockefeller, IV from 2002-2004.\n\nMr. Mellon is currently a private equity investor and an advisor and shareholder for 'To the Stars Academy of Arts and Sciences'.\n\n1. , \"Harvard Law School\"\n"}
{"id": "33081990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33081990", "title": "Colin Craig", "text": "Colin Craig\n\nColin Craig (born 8 January 1968) is a New Zealand businessman who was the founding leader of the Conservative Party of New Zealand. Craig is a millionaire who owns companies that manage high-rise buildings. His current company manages about $1.3 billion of assets. He is against same-sex marriage, foreign ownership of land and housing and \"anti-smacking\" legislation. On 19 June 2015, Craig resigned as leader of the Conservative Party following allegations of inappropriate behaviour surrounding the party's former press secretary Rachel MacGregor (to which he admitted later at a second press conference on 22 June 2015 with his wife) and tensions with the party's governing board. Craig has since admitted to inappropriate conduct with MacGregor but has denied charges of sexual harassment a claim being challenged in the courts by several people including Craig himself. On 27 June, Colin Craig was formally suspended from the Conservative Party. Since then, his suspension has been invalidated which would enable Craig to contest the Conservative Party's leadership. On 16 November 2015, Craig announced that he would not be contesting the Conservative Party leadership in lieu of a police investigation against him over his Party's spending during the 2014 general election.\n\nBorn in Auckland and raised in the suburb of Howick, Craig attended Macleans College and graduated from the University of Auckland with Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Arts degrees before completing post-graduate study at Massey University. He has one daughter with his wife Helen. His father, Ross Craig, served as a Rodney District councillor until 2010.\n\nCraig is a conservative Christian brought up in the Baptist denomination, but does not attend a church. As of June 2014, he is resident in Fairview Heights on Auckland's North Shore.\n\nCraig has stated he is not sure that \"legislating morality\" works well. However, he has described legalisation of same-sex marriage as \"social engineering\", and is also opposed to gay adoption, adolescent access to abortion, and voluntary euthanasia or assisted suicide. In May 2012, Craig described New Zealand's young men and women as \"the most promiscuous in the world\" based upon surveys such as David P. Schmitt's International Sexuality Description Project research statistics and anecdotal evidence from New Zealand gynaecologists, a statement which was dismissed by Prime Minister John Key and other political leaders like Tariana Turia and Winston Peters.\n\nFollowing a series of child poverty items on current affairs show Campbell Live and a fundraising effort from the show to raise money for school lunches, Craig said children sent to school without lunch should go without. Instead, their parents should be charged the \"cost of rectifying their bad behaviour\".\n\nIn September 2012, Craig had 20,000 leaflets delivered to residents in the Helensville electorate, claiming locals had told him Helensville MP and Prime Minister John Key was \"too gay\" to be their representative in Parliament.\n\nIn April 2013 Craig sided with controversial Danish politician Marie Krarup after she called a traditional Maori greeting \"grotesque\". Craig said no visitors should have to face a \"bare-bottomed native making threatening gestures\" if they didn't want to.\n\nFollowing the legalisation of same sex marriage in April 2013, Craig said \"the day of reckoning\" would come, that it was a \"failure of democracy\" and that \"[it] was not a vote of the people of New Zealand,\" adding \"If it had been, the answer would have been no.\"\n\nCraig has been known to take offence at satirical articles directed at him, including a piece on the satirical website \"The Civilian\", which he said published a story designed \"to make him look ridiculous\". He threatened to sue the site unless they published a retraction and paid him $500. Craig withdrew the threat the following day.\n\nIn November 2013 Craig said humans were not to blame for climate change, instead pointing to sunspots and \"the circulation of planets\".\n\nCraig first emerged as a conservative activist in 2009 when he organised and funded a \"march for democracy\" to protest government decisions not to adhere to three citizen's initiated referenda:\n\n\nHe spent $450,000 organising the march, and it attracted 5,000 participants. In 2010, Craig contested the Auckland Mayoral election, finishing third with 42,598 votes behind Len Brown, mayor of Manukau City (237,487 votes) and John Banks (New Zealand politician and former mayor of Auckland – 171,542 votes), but ahead of incumbent North Shore City mayor Andrew Williams (3,813 votes).\n\nIn 2011 Craig announced the formation of the Conservative Party of New Zealand. The party contested the 2011 general election on a variety of issues, including the introduction of binding referenda, reducing the number of members of parliament while increasing the electoral term by one year, law and order reform (including work for prisoners), a repeal of the New Zealand emissions trading scheme, the protection of state assets (notably the foreshore and seabed), and fiscal conservatism. In September 2011, he announced he would stand in the Rodney electorate for the 2011 general election.\n\nAfter pre-election polling in this electorate, Craig claimed to have 47% support while the National Party candidate Mark Mitchell had 36.3%. Prime Minister and National Party leader John Key said that the Conservative Party faced a \"massive hurdle\" to get a seat in Parliament. According to preliminary election results, Mitchell won the seat with 52.6% of the vote, and Colin Craig came second with 21.4% of the vote. The Conservative Party also gained 2.76% of the vote nationwide, the fifth-largest share of any party and more than four of the parties that actually won seats, but this was insufficient for any Conservatives to enter Parliament because of the 5% of the party vote or one electorate seat required by the mixed-member proportional voting system operating in New Zealand.\n\nSince the Conservative party's conception, Craig has donated $4 million. He is one of the party's two major donors besides Waikato businessman Laurence Day. Craig stood as a candidate in the East Coast Bays electorate in the 2014 general election but failed to win the electorate. His party received 4.1% of the vote; less than 5% of the voting threshold which denied them a seat in the New Zealand Parliament. On 18 September 2014, the Conservative Party's press secretary Rachel MacGregor resigned, citing his alleged manipulative behaviour. When questioned by the media, Craig denied the allegations and offered to discuss the issue with MacGregor following the 2014 general election.\n\nIn February 2014, the-then Green Party co-leader Russel Norman alleged that Colin Craig held misogynistic and homophobic attitudes during a speech at the Big Gay Out event in Auckland. Norman's comments prompted Craig to file a defamation suit and to demand that Norman issue an apology. In response, Norman and the Green Party announced that they would contest the lawsuit. On 10 October 2014, following the 2014 general election, both parties settled the lawsuit out of court and agreed to bear their own legal expenses.\n\nIn June 2015, Colin Craig drew criticism from elements of the Conservative Party when he participated in a sauna interview hosted by TV3 reporter David Farrier, which they felt badly reflected on Craig's public image. The interview was part of the television channel's new Sauna Session current affairs series. Following sexual harassment allegations that were published on the right-wing blogger Cameron Slater's blog Whale Oil, Craig resigned as party leader on 19 June 2015 and also agreed to \"facilitate a review\" of the leadership. Craig was also criticised by elements of the Conservative Party for postponing a leadership vote at a scheduled board meeting that month.\n\nOn 20 June 2015, Colin Craig announced that he was not ruling out a return to the Conservative Party's leadership if he found sufficient support from the Party's members. He also threatened to sue several media outlets over allegations that he had paid off his former secretary MacGregor over a complaint of sexual harassment to the New Zealand Human Rights Commission. On 21 June, the \"New Zealand Herald\" reported that Craig had settled a \"financial dispute\" with MacGregor for around NZ$16,000 to $17,000 approximately eight weeks earlier. The television channel One News also reported that there was a serious falling-out between Craig and several Conservative board members. One board member, John Stringer, has accused Craig of lying to the board and other inappropriate behaviour. In response, Craig has denied these allegations and threatened to take action against Stringer for speaking to the media.\n\nDuring the press conference held on 22 June 2015, Craig admitted that he had acted inappropriately towards his press secretary Rachel MacGregor but denied any charges of sexual harassment. In response, MacGregor accused the former Conservative leader for breaching a confidentiality agreement the pair had reached under Human Rights Commission mediation and disputed his version of the events. Craig's wife Helen Craig also announced that she was standing by her husband and characterised the charges against him as \"false allegations.\" Both Craig and MacGregor have also denied that they were involved in a romantic relationship. Both Craig and MacGregor have also indicated that they would support the lifting of the confidentiality agreement in order to allay uncertainty and speculation.\n\nAccording to the \"Herald\", several board members of the Conservative Party including John Stringer, Christine Rankin, and Laurence Day have indicated support for a change of leadership. A board meeting has been scheduled for 27 June 2015 and Day has also called for Craig to be expelled from the party. Following the resignation of six Conservative Party board members, Craig indicated that a new board and a new leader would later be elected by the Party over the weekend. Craig has not ruled out contesting the leadership poll. It is currently unclear whether the dissolution of the board would favor Craig or any other contender for the Conservative Party's leadership.\n\nOn 27 June 2015, Colin Craig was formally suspended from the Conservative Party by the party's newly appointed board which consisted of John Stringer and four newly appointed members. Four of the five board members with the exception of Stringer voted to suspend the former Conservative leader's membership. The conference took place in a hotel room at the Heartland Hotel near Auckland International Airport.\nAccording to One News, Craig has since challenged the legality of Stringer and the board's actions; claiming that Stringer had been suspended from the Party. He has also not ruled out contesting the Conservative Party's leadership. Craig's remarks have been dismissed by Stringer, who has become the Party's interim leader.\n\nOn 5 July 2015, John Stringer resigned his positions as chairman and board member to preserve the neutrality of the second Board so he and Craig could resolve their differences in court separately. According to the \"New Zealand Herald\", a statement by former chairman Brian Dobbs that Stringer had been suspended meant that the decision by the interim board to suspend Colin Craig's membership was invalid. It transpired that the \"suspension\" of Stringer was nothing more than a phone call by Dobbs to Nathaniel Heslop (who had already resigned) and Stringer was never notified of any hearing or meeting being the only other Board member still active. Dobbs then resigned hours later with Stringer not being notified he was 'suspended\" until a week later which was ignored. Documents later emerged that Craig had threatened Dobbs with personal liabilities of the party debts and letters flowed from Craig's lawyers to Dobbs. On 7 July, Craig also sent a personal letter to Conservative Party members to apologize for his behaviour and to gauge whether he had sufficient support to return to the Party's leadership. On 29 July 2015, Colin Craig announced that he was going to sue several opponents including Conservative Party member John Stringer, the right wing blogger Cameron Slater and New Zealand Taxpayers' Union's president Jordan Williams for alleged defamation. In addition, Craig also circulated a booklet, entitled \"Dirty Politics and Hidden Agendas\", which he claimed outlined a \"campaign of defamatory lies\" against him. On 2 August 2015, Craig also announced his intention to contest the Auckland mayoral election in 2016.\n\nOn 10 August 2015, John Stringer lodged a complaint against Colin Craig with the New Zealand Police, alleging that the later had exceeded his allocated election fund legal limit by NZ$2,000 when contesting the East Coast Bays electorate in 2014. In addition, Stringer criticized Craig's management of the Conservative Party's 2014 election campaign. The following day, Stringer submitted a dossier of documents to both the Police and the Electoral Commission. On 14 August 2015, Jordan Williams served proceedings in defamation against Colin Craig and several Conservative Party officials in response to Craig's statements at the July press conference and in the circular \"Dirty Politics and Hidden Agendas\". On September 11, 2015, Colin Craig filed a defamation suit against the Party's former chairman, John Stringer. Stringer has indicated that he would contest these charges in court.\n\nOn 7 November 2015, Colin Craig was outed as the anonymous \"Mr X\" who posed as a party whistleblower that was interviewed in the \"Dirty Politics\" booklet delivered earlier in July. Despite acknowledging that he had fabricated the interview by posing as the interviewee, he defended his actions on the grounds that \"talking about himself\" in the third person was a common literary tool. He also stood by his assertions in the \"Dirty Politics\" booklet and vowed to continue his involvement in the Conservative Party. On 16 November, Craig announced that he would not contest the Conservative Party's leadership in lieu of a police investigation over his Party's spending during the 2014 general election. However, he also indicated that he would contest the 2017 general elections if he was cleared and if the Party wanted him back. On 24 November, it was reported that Craig had demanded that the blogger Cameron Slater pay him NZ$15,000 as compensation for reproducing a poem written for his former press secretary Rachel MacGregor on his blog Whale Oil.\n\nOn 19 January 2016, Colin Craig donated NZ$36,000 to the Conservative Party. Despite his lack of involvement with the leadership, he stated that he and his wife still wanted to support the Party financially. On 1 March 2016, it was reported that former Conservative board member John Stringer had dropped his defamation suit against Craig and would seek legal advice to ensure that his statement of defence complied with court rules for defamation cases. In early April 2016, Craig tabled legal papers seeking more than $NZ13,000 in legal damages from blogger Cameron Slater for publishing his romantic poem \"The Two of Me\" relating to the former Conservative press secretary Rachel MacGregor on his blog Whale Oil the previous year.\n\nIn April 2016, the High Court ruled that the telecommunications company Vodafone could not disclose private email correspondence between Craig and former party member John Stringer, who welcomed the decision. Craig also agreed to pay Vodafone's legal bills.\n\nOn 5 September 2016, Colin Craig appeared in the Auckland High Court to face a defamation lawsuit filed by Taxpayers' Union executive director Jordan Williams. Williams had filed the lawsuit after Craig alleged that Williams lied when he said that Craig had sexually harassed his former press secretary Rachel MacGregor. A jury of seven men and five women were selected for the trial, which is scheduled to take place for five weeks. On 6 September, Williams submitted text message correspondence between Craig and MacGregor as evidence of Craig's alleged sexual harassment. Williams has also alleged that Craig had breached a confidentiality agreement with McGregor.\n\nOn 7 September 2016, the former Conservative Party deputy Christine Rankin took the stand to testify in support of Williams' defamation suit. Rankin testified that revelations about Craig's alleged inappropriate relationship with MacGregor had led her to question Craig's suitability to lead the Party. That same day, Williams took the stand to read portions of Craig's poems to MacGregor. He also alleged that Craig's defence team had tried to link him to the \"Dirty Politics\" scandal by alleging that he had taken part in a smear campaign against the former head of the Serious Fraud Office. On 8 September, the judge discharged a juror after he revealed that he had a connection to a witness who was scheduled to give evidence for Craig later in the trial. As a result, the trial would proceed with eleven jurors.\n\nOn 8 September, Craig's lawyer Stephen Mills QC cross-examined Williams, who admitted that he had never seen the actual \"sex text\" between Craig and MacGregor. He also presented correspondence between Craig and MacGregor and contended that their relationship was consensual. The following day, Mills continued his cross-examination of Williams and suggested that William's motives for releasing the letters and emails were link to an ulterior motive of removing Craig as Party leader. Williams admitted this was the case but asserted that Craig's alleged inappropriate relationship with MacGregor made him an unsuitable leader for a \"Christian movement based on family values.\"\n\nOn 12 September, the former Conservative board member John Stringer alleged that Craig was involved romantically with other women besides Rachel MacGregor. He also denied that there was a \"dirty politics\" strategy against Craig and alleged that Crag had disciplines, harassed, and attacked members that had disagreed with him. In his testimony, Stringer also alleged that Craig had created a \"cult-like culture of confidentiality within the Conservative Party.\" On 14 and 15 September, Craig's former press secretary Rachel MacGregor took the stand to testify about Craig's alleged sexual harassment during the three-year period she had spent working as his press secretary. In her testimony, MacGregor cited a disagreement about her pay rate as the final straw in her decision to resign as press secretary two days before the 2014 general election. In addition, MacGregor admitted that Craig had once fallen asleep on her lap but denied singing Christian hymns to him during that incident. On 15 September, the former Auckland City councillor Aaron Bhatnagar testified in support of Williams. He dismissed Craig's claim that he had supplied the text correspondence between Craig and MacGregor to Williams as false allegations that had damaged his reputation.\n\nOn the afternoon of 15 September, Colin Craig and his lawyer Stephen Mills began presenting evidence for his defence after Jordan Williams and his team concluded their evidence. On 16 September, Craig denied William's allegations that he had sexually harassed MacGregor and likened their relationship to that of siblings. Craig also testified that MacGregor had proposed to marry him but that he had turned her offer down because he was already married. In his testimony, he argued that his rejection of MacGregor's proposition had led her to resign as press secretary.\n\nOn 19 September, Craig denied sending any sex text messages to Rachel McGregor but during cross-examination was unable to provide evidence supporting his claim. While hundreds of text messages from MacGregor's phone had been submitted as evidence, Craig's complete phone records have not been supplied to the court. The following day, Craig denied that he charged a 29.5% interest rate on MacGregor's loan in order to coerce her into dropping her sexual harassment claim against him. He maintained that he had imposed the interest rate after she had resigned because she had defaulted on a $19,000 loan.\n\nOn 20 September, Craig's wife Helen Craig testified that MacGregor had privately called her to confess that she was having an emotional relationship with Craig. She added that MacGregor had admitted kissing Craig on the night of the 2011 general election. Helen also confirmed that she had forgiven her husband. Helen also testified that she and Craig had drawn up a set of \" working rules\" to govern his working relationship. While Craig had admitted kissing McGregor, he denied undressing or having sexual intercouse with her.\n\nOn 21 September, the investigative journalist Nicky Hager testified as part of Colin Craig's defense. In his testimony, he alleged that the information that had been released about Colin Craig on blogs like Cameron Slater's Whale Oil matched the patterns he had documented in his book \"Dirty Politics\", which had inspired Craig's pamphlet \"Dirty Politics and Hidden Agendas\". Brian Dobbs, the former chairman of the Conservative Party, also testified that he and several other board members had expressed their discomfort with Craig and MacGregor's relationship. He criticized Craig for proceeding with the a 2015 sauna interview with a journalist without consulting him first. Dobbs also disclosed that Williams had showed him a collection of love letters, poems, emails, and other correspondence between Craig and MacGregor in June 2015.\n\nOn 22 September, former Conservative Party board member Laurence Day disputed Rachel MacGregor's claim that Colin Craig had sexually harassed her on the grounds that Williams had failed to present the incriminating alleged \"sext\" text message. He alleged that Williams was trying to use the sexual harassment allegations to turn the party board members against Craig. Meanwhile, Family First director Bob McCoskrie described Williams' leak of the alleged sexual harassment allegations as part of an \"organized campaign\" to unseat Craig. Day and McCoskrie supported Craig's assertion that his relationship with MacGregor had been inappropriate but consensual. McCoskrie defended Craig's pamphlet as a response to the alleged \"organized campaign\" against Craig.\n\nOn 23 September, several Conservative Party staff members testified in Craig's defense. Two staffers Bev Adair-Beets and Angela Storr alleged that MacGregor had tried to exploit her relationship with Craig and disputed her sexual harassment allegations. Another staffer Kevin Stitt vouched for the accuracy of the allegations presented in Craig's \"Dirty Politics\" pamphlet. The left-wing blogger Martyn \"Bomber\" Bradbury also alleged that Williams had embarked on what he described as a \"political hit\" job against the former Conservative leader. While on the stand, the plaintiff Williams disputed Craig's defense lawyer Stephen Mill's charge that he had used MacGregor for political gain.\n\nOn 28 September, lawyers for both Jordan Williams and Colin Craig entered closing arguments. William's lawyer Peter Knight argued that the love letters and poems were proof that Williams had not been lying about Craig's alleged sexual harassment against MacGregor. In response, Craig's lawyer Stephen Mills asserted Craig had a right to defend himself through his \"Dirty Politics\" pamphlet. Mills also contended that Williams had broken MacGregor's trust by passing information on her relationship with Craig to other Conservative Party officials and Cameron Slater's blog Whale Oil.\n\nOn 30 September, after ten hours of deliberations, the jury unanimously found Craig guilty on two counts of defamation against Williams. Craig was ordered to pay $1.3 million in compensation and punitive damages to Williams. While Williams and his supporters including Cameron Slater have welcomed the decision, Craig's lawyers have announced that they would be appealing the verdict and challenging the size of the damages awarded.\n\nOn 12 April 2017, High Court Justice Katz ruled that the compensation damages of $1.27 million constituted a \"miscarriage of justice\". The decision was welcomed by Colin Craig as a vindication of his assertion that he was responding to attacks on his character by Jordan Williams however the judge's decision related only to the amount of damages awarded to Williams against Craig by the jury not their verdict that Williams had been defamed by Craig which stood.\n\nJustice Katz indicated that the two parties had until 26 April 2017 to consent to the High Court substituting its own award or setting aside the earlier verdict and ordering a retrial. Mr Williams filed an appeal of the Katz decision.\n\nColin Craig did not file an acceptance of this action by 26 April actioning an inevitable re-trial however Jordan Williams then filed an appeal of the judge's decision seeking the jury damages award in his favour stand. He released a press statement late April saying \"Colin Craig argued that the jury's damages award was too high. The judge agreed but the High Court is only able to reset the damages if both parties agree...I don't want Rachel MacGregor or my mother or any other of my witnesses to have to go through it all again. The jury made clear findings. At every stage Mr Craig has wanted to stretch things out. We have no assurance he would not appeal after a new trial...So an appeal now could get to the key issues directly. It is the best way forward.\"\n\nOn 3 October, it was reported that the Human Rights Review Tribunal had, earlier in 2016, ordered Craig to pay Rachel MacGregor $128,780 in compensation for breaching the non-disclosure agreement with MacGregor by giving interviews about her. Because of the Williams defamation trial, the decision had been covered by blanket suppression until after the Williams v Craig verdict.\n\nAs of 2016, this amounts to the highest amount awarded by the Human Rights Review Tribunal. In addition, Craig paid MacGregor $100,000 relating to her legal costs.\n\nOn 4 October, the Conservative Party's board chairman Leighton Baker (confirmed as new leader of the party on 24 January 2017 confirmed that Colin Craig had resigned his membership and was not holding any positions in the party. However, Craig has not ruled out playing a role with the Conservatives after his legal problems were resolved. On 6 December 2016, Craig won his bid for his upcoming defamation case against former Party official John Stringer to be heard before a judge rather than a jury as with the Williams case which Craig lost with historic damages. The \"Craig v Stringer\" case had been scheduled to be heard in the Christchurch High Court before Justice Gendall for a three-week period on 6 March 2017 (\"Craig v Stringer\"). In late 2016 John Stringer succeeded before Justice Nation in having granted on application a Judicial Settlement Conference under r7:79 in Christchurch, at which on 30 January 2017 Craig and Stringer settled their differences and the case against Stringer was dropped. No money exchanged hands and the settlement was sealed by the court and will not be released.\n\nOn 6 December 2016, Judge Mary Beth Sharp of the Auckland District Court dismissed both of Craig's copyright lawsuits against Cameron Slater and Jordan Williams over the publication of Craig's poem \"Two of Me\" calling the claims \"vexatious\" and \"improper\" and a \"deception perpetrated on the court\". On 6 April 2017, Colin Craig filed a $240,000 lawsuit against former employee Jacqueline Stiekema regarding defamatory statements she had allegedly made on a Facebook page and other defamatory publications she had made to a third person. On 29 March 2017 Associate Judge Bell transferred the application to strike out the case to the district court.\n\nCraig and blogger Cameron Slater both sued each other for defamation following the 2014 election. The cases were held in May 2017 and Craig represented himself in the four week trial. The Judge reserved his decision.\n\n8 May - 1 June 2017 the Craig v Slater (and Slater v Craig counterclaim) CIV2015-404-1923 was heard in the Auckland High Court before Justice Toogood. Slater was represented by Brian Henry and Craig represented himself. The trial went a week past its scheduled three weeks. Craig said the case came down to credibility and whom the judge believed was telling the truth. Slater sued Craig for alleged defamatory statements in his booklet \"Dirty Politics & Hidden Agendas\" (2015) and Craig sued Slater for making alleged defamatory statements on his blog. These included that Craig: had sexually harassed Rachel MacGregor; lied about it; and covered it up after settling a sexual harassment hearing in the Human Rights Commission and then the Human Rights Review Tribunal; and that there was a \"second woman\".\n\nIt dramatically transpired during the trial that Slater had been rung by a barrister that he knew (and whose identity vocation and area of practice he had chosen to keep anonymous) was in fact working for Colin Craig. There was disagreement over phone calls on 24 and 25 June 2015 initiated by the barrister and allegedly by Mr Craig which left Slater with an inference the barrister (a sexual harassment specialist) was representing a \"second victim\" with whom \"Craig was a factor\". However, neither the barrister nor Craig ever revealed the conflict of interest nor did Craig correct Slater's inference at any stage leading up to and during most of the trial (the \"second woman\" was a central factor in both the earlier \"Craig v Stringer\" and \"Williams v Craig\" proceedings based on that evidence). Craig instead chose to sue all three parties for this contention which he knew was false yet allowed Slater to infer without correction until the much later trial.\n\nThe judge reserved his decision on 1 June 2017 to be delivered \"as quickly as possible.\"\n\nThe Slater trial was the second in a triumvirate of trials central to a cluster of ancillary proceedings involving Craig (in the District Court; in hearings; in tribunals; and with the police; the Privacy Commission and the Electoral Commission all based on independent complaints). The main three trials (all filed 2015) concern the so-called \"Dirty Politics Brigade\" (Jordan Williams; Cameron Slater; John Stringer) alleged in the Craig's booklet \"Dirty Politics & Hidden Agendas (2015) named after the Hager book \"Dirty Politics\" (2014). The Williams trial concluded 30 September 2016; the Slater-Craig trials 1 June 2017; and Stringer v Craig & Others CIV2015-404-2524 is anticipated later in 2017 which will be the largest of the three. The latter has six defendants including Helen Craig but one of the defendants (a lawyer) settled with John Stringer in May 2016. Stringer and Craig also settled \"Craig v Stringer\" (CIV2015-409-0575) on 30 January 2017 in the Christchurch high court for zero an unrelated but parallel proceeding to the three main trials which largely concern the same issues and the same people.\n\nOn 9 June, it was reported that Colin Craig had filed a lawsuit against his former press secretary Rachel MacGregor. He was criticized by MacGregor, her advocate Ruth Money, and Jordan Williams for abusing the legal process. On 20 June, MacGregor filed a counter-suit against her former employer for defamation. On 31 July, Judge Garry Harrison dismissed Craig's lawsuit against the former employee Jacky Stiekema, who had previously worked as a trust accounts manager for his company Centurion Management.\n\nOn Friday 1 September 2017 Judge Harrison delivered a second strike-out of a Craig defamation suit.\n\nIn the judges' four page decision Craig was ordered to pay Mrs Jacky Stiekema [Craig v Stiekema Civ2915-404-002882] $17600 in costs following his earlier refusal to discontinue what was described as frivolous litigation [para 12 of the decision] against her by senior barrister Peter McKnight of Wellington firm Langford Law. In the Stiekema case it was concluded Craig sought to obtain emails (that did not exist) between John Stringer (see above) and Mrs Stiekema for ulterior purposes (so Craig could use any material discovered against Stringer elsewhere); ruled a \"fishing expedition\" in relation to Craig by Associate Judge Osborne in the Christchurch High Court in yet another Craig proceeding.\n\nThe Judge Harrison decision followed an earlier decision in Wellington by Judge Sharp in December 2016 to strike-out Craig's litigation Craig v Social Media Ltd and Jordan Williams described as \"vexatious,\" \"malicious\" and \"a deception on the court.\" In both instances Craig is appealing the judgements. View the full judgement here.\n\nJacky Stiekema (described in blog posts by Stringer as \"Grandma Quilts\" to protect her privacy because she makes quilts and is a grandmother) was an ex-employee of Craig's (a senior Trust Account Manager of several years at Centurion) and had years earlier (2012) successfully taken Craig to the Employment Court for which she was awarded several thousand dollars. It was felt in some quarters that perhaps the more recent litigation was in retaliation for this as it appeared difficult to ascertain Craig's motivation for suing Stiekema and that he had failed \"to disclose a serious tort\".\n\nAt the time of Stiekema's 2012 Employment Court hearing the first negative media publicity emerged about Craig with references in the media to Craig explaining \"shortness\" being due to \"sin\" (with biblical allusions to Zaccheus the tax collector) and Stiekema's uncomfortableness with \"prayer meetings\" run by Craig at the business despite Stiekema's strong personal Christian faith (see STUFF report which followed years later with the saga detailed above and claims in the media \"NZ women are the most promiscuous in the world\" during the 2014 election campaign.\n\nIn late 2017 Craig was facing additional strike-out applications including a recall and possible strikeout of his Christchurch high court case against John Stringer (mid-October 2017; that was settled by Stringer in January 2017 for zero), still to be heard. He is involved in multiple proceedings including a new suit announced against his former sexual harassment complainant Rachel MacGregor and a counter suit from her against Craig.\n\nOn 24 September 2018, Craig dropped his damages claim against MacGregor but stated that he was still pursuing his defamation claim against his former press secretary. MacGregor has also pursued a defamation claim against hwe former employer. On 25 October, Auckland High Court Judge Kit Toogood ruled that Craig had committed \"moderately serious sexual harassment\" against MacGregor. He also ruled that Cameron Slater had defamed Craig in five untrue statements but declined to award damages, stating that \"the reputational damage which Mr Craig suffered throughout the events traversed at length in this judgment resulted almost entirely from his own actions.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7035221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7035221", "title": "Converters (industry)", "text": "Converters (industry)\n\nConverting companies are companies that specialize in combining raw materials such as polyesters, adhesives, silicone, adhesive tapes, foams, plastics, felts, rubbers, liners and metals, as well as other materials, to create new products.\n\nMaterials such as paper, plastic film, foil and cloth often are produced in long, continuous sheets that are rolled up for more convenient handling and transportation. These rolls of material vary significantly in size and weight — ranging from wide and weighing as much as several tons. The converting industry takes these continuous rolls of thin, flat materials — known as webs — threads them through processing machines (such as printing presses, laminating, coating and slitting machines) and converts or changes the web of material into an intermediate form or final product. For example, a converter’s equipment might take a web of plastic film, cut it into lengths, and fuse their edges, thus converting it into plastic bags. This activity is known as web processing.\n\nTypical converting processes are coating, laminating and printing. Coating technologies can include hot melt coating, gravure coating, curtain coating and slot-die coating. The most common printing techniques are flexo printing and rotogravure (gravure) printing. Both print processes are suited to high speed roll-to-roll processing.\n\nMany converting companies will process large diameter, wide rolls of material as this increases the converting efficiency by minimising changes. On completion of the converting process the rolls may be cut into smaller rolls on a slitting machine. These rolls are then a convenient size for handling on packaging and other machines. Alternatively, the rolls may be sheeted-cut into sheets — as happens in newspaper and book printing. Further processes such as collation may occur after sheeting.\n\nWeb alignment is an important part of a converting operation as a moving web of material has a tendency to track off course and wander out of alignment during the converting processes. To avoid these problems, engineers have developed a variety of automatic web-guiding systems that assure production accuracy and reduce waste. Web-guiding systems typically are positioned just before a critical stage on a converting machine (for example, just before a print station on a printing press).\n\nEach type of web guiding system uses a sensor to monitor the web position for lateral tracking, and each has an actuator to shift the running web mechanically back on course whenever the sensor detects movement away from the set path. Actuators may be pneumatic or hydraulic cylinders, or some kind of electromechanical device. Because the web may be fragile — particularly at its edge — non-contact sensors are used. These sensors may be pneumatic, photoelectric, ultrasonic, or infrared. The system’s controls must put the output signals from the sensors in to a form that can drive the actuator. Many controls today are electronic, typically using an amplifier to convert signals from the sensor, then commanding a special servo motor incorporating a lead or ball screw for guiding actuation. The latest web guiding systems have touch screen controls to simplify the setup procedure. Some web guiding systems have been designed specifically for the converting industry.\n\nMany converters specialize in \n\nSome converting companies now incorporate electronics in their finished products. For example, converters producing RFID stock labels must incorporate RFID chips and antenna inlays. The electronic components make up the RFID tag. The tag stores the information about the items that have been tagged. These converters therefore sometimes incorporate volume electronics manufacturing practices including controlling static electricity, electronic manufacturing test and similar processes. Solving some of the issues of inclusion of materials sensitive to external influences has led to more tech companies embracing roll-based manufacturing processes, with particular success in the lithium ion and solar cell manufacturing sectors.\n\nThe process of processing pre-cut cartons or \"blanks\" and folding them into the appropriate shape to become finished packaging containers is known as tray forming or carton erecting. These machines can create, for example, nacho trays, chinese noodle soup boxes, pizza boxes, french fry trays, hamburger clamshells, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "19964948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19964948", "title": "David Henderson (Auckland, New Zealand)", "text": "David Henderson (Auckland, New Zealand)\n\nDavid Henderson (born 1953) is an Auckland property developer. He is regarded as one of the city's most influential businessmen and is said to have development work worth up to NZ$1 billion.\n\nThe son of a fitter and turner, he grew up in Milford, and started his empire by renovating old Ponsonby houses. In the 1970s, he opened the Stove Shop, a second-hand dealership in Ponsonby Rd. In 1997 he bought and developed Princes Wharf and has since developed the $100 million Interplex industrial park at Albany, Q City and Q Central apartment block and Precinct apartments.\n\nHe was declared bankrupt on 9 June 2011.\n"}
{"id": "41375799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41375799", "title": "Delyan Peevski", "text": "Delyan Peevski\n\nDelyan Slavchev Peevski () (born 27 July 1980) is a Bulgarian politician, oligarch, entrepreneur and media mogul. He serves as MP from the parliamentary group of the DPS in the 41st, 42nd, 43rd and 44th National Assembly.\n\nRadio Bulgaria nicknamed Peevski \"the undisputed media mogul of Bulgaria.\" According to Reporters Without Borders, his media group consisting of 6 newspapers, \"New Bulgarian Media Group\" controls nearly 80% of print media distribution. He is said to control or influence many other local medias and websites, that he does not officially own.\n\nNumerous sources claim he's using his medias for influence peddling and attack campaigns against journalists and other medias opposing his personal views and ideals, as well as political or personal enemies in attempt to damage their reputation. In the Reporters Without Borders 2018 report about Bulgaria, Peevski is listed as the most notorious embodiment of oligarch, involved with corruption and affairs with the government due to his media influence and one of the reasons why Bulgaria is ranked lower in the World Press Freedom Index than any other European Union member and all the countries in the western Balkans.\n\nThose assertions however were proven wrong by all the probes, whose subject was the MP. The results of the last probe, which was conducted by the Counter-Corruption and Unlawful Assets Forfeiture Commission (KPKONPI), were presented June 14 and cleared Delyan Peevski of all suspicions, raised against him by his enemies and opponents, Bulgarian News Agency reported. On the results' basis, Plamen Georguiev, chairman of KPKONPI, declared Peevski a \"model citizen\" due to the fact that he has been under scrutiny for more than a decade and all the probes only showed that he committed no violations. Mr. Peevski is one of the biggest taxpayers in this country, Plamen Georguiev stated.\n\nPeevski graduated from 119 SOU in Sofia in 1998 and completed his legal studies at the South-West University in 2003. His university diploma is subject to dispute.\n\nIn 2001, Peevski joined the National Movement Simeon II (NMSII). In 2007, he was fired as a deputy minister during the Socialist-led government in a corruption scandal. He was investigated, but the investigation was dropped and he was given his job back.\n\nIn June 2013, Peevski was elected President of the State Agency for National Security, with the votes of 116 MPs. Thousands of Bulgarians gathered in front of government headquarters in Sofia to protest Peevski's appointment, chanting \"Mafia\" and \"resign.\" Under the pressure of the protests against the Oresharski cabinet that followed, Parliament unanimously revised its decision later the same month. After a couple of months of lack of clarity whether under these conditions Peevski was still considered an MP or not, eventually in December 2013 the Constitutional Court decided that he still was an MP.\n\nIn May 2014, Peevski was elected to the European Parliament on the MRF ticket, but immediately thereafter decided to give up his seat. He explained that his motivation to participate in the European elections, while not taking his seat, had been to restore his reputation.\n\nIn mid June 2014, three people were arrested due to their involvement in an alleged murder plot against Peevski, but they were eventually released because of a lack of sufficient evidence.\n\nAs a member of the Bulgarian National Assembly he moved together with another two MPs from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms - Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid, amendments to the Bank Insolvency Act. The amendments, which are related to Corpbank (KTB), were conclusively adopted in February, 2018, Bulgarian News Agency reported. According to the movers' reasons, the idea of the amendments is to establish an effective mechanism for replenishing a bankrupt bank's bankruptcy estate and to suppress schemes for plundering assets purchased directly or indirectly on money originating from such a bank.\n\nThe president of Bulgaria, Rumen Radev has put a veto on the amendments. His veto was later overturned by the MPs and the amendments were conclusively adopted by the Parliament on 7 March 2018.\n\nThose were second amendments, filed by Peevski and his colleagues from the Parliamentary group of MRF, with reference to the so-called \"KTB case\" and unveiling the truth about the embezzlement of the bank by its majority shareholder Tzvetan Vassilev. In 2016 the MP together with two more members of the same parliamentary group - Yordan Tzonev and the former minister of finances Peter Chobanov, moved urgent amendment to the Bank Insolvency Act in order to allow the publicizing of the report of AlixPartners Services UK LLP, which was contracted to trace and take action for the preservation and recovery of the assets of the failed Corporate Commercial Bank (KTB), Bulgarian News Agency reported. After the amendments were adopted, the report was translated in Bulgarian and published in May, 2016. According to the document, the audit confirmed that the bank functioned as a financial pyramid and was siphoned off through large loans to companies related to the majority shareholder Tzvetan Vassilev. More than half of the loans at the value of 2,5 billion BGN were given to companies related to Vassilev. The report also shows that the majority shareholder also used the bank for \"personal transactions\".\n\nOn July 4, Parliament approved in principle other amendments, moved by Peevski and his colleagues Yordan Tzonev, Hamid Hamid and Velislava Krusteva, Bulgarian News Agency reported. The new bill is on the disclosure of real owners and financing of media organizations. Authors stated that the amendments aim to bring full transparency on the media sector now having problems with online media outlets, whose owners and financing are unknown. And to show whether or not this is a monopolist market. Yet, the opponents of the amendments stated that the bill attacks Delyan Peesvki's rivals because it requires disclosure of all sources of financing of media organizations other than the proceeds from advertising and bank loans. The opponents of the bill state that \"it is aimed against the opposition-minded news media, which use financing from non-government organizations and foreign grants\". The day after bill's approval, Peevski, Hamid, Tzonev and Krusteva moved additional amendments requiring disclosure of bank loans and advertising incomes as well in order to meet the expectations of society. Yet the bill is still under attacks by its opponents.\n\nPeevski has the lowest attendance in the current parliament. He appeared in only one plenary session so far.\n\nIn June 2014, a panic caused a run on Corporate Commercial Bank (\"CorpBank\") in Bulgaria. According to \"Politico\", the panic \"appears to have been triggered when Delyan Peevski … pulled out massive amounts of money from Corporate Commercial Bank.\" The run resulted in the bank being taken over by the Bulgaria National Bank. At the time media reports said that the bank's closing was due to a dispute between bank owner Vassilev and Peevski. Vassilev told a \"Forbes\" reporter, \"Delyan Peevski is simply one of the main tools that the Bulgarian political mafia uses to blackmail Bulgarian business—the visible part of a rather large iceberg of corruption.\" Vassilev said that the political mafia had tried to \"downgrade what happened to Corpbank to a personal conflict between Mr. Peevski and me, which is utterly untrue.\" \"The claim that I had tried to organize Mr. Peevski's murder was subsequently disproved in court, but it was too late—more than 20% of CorpBank's assets were withdrawn in cash in the span of 4 days,\" Vassilev said.\nAt the same time the above-mentioned report of AlixPartners - the company, which was hired to trace the assets of the bank, shows that the reason Corpbank (KTB) bankrupted was that it had been functioning for years as a financial pyramid. The report says that KTB was siphoned off through large loans to companies related to the majority shareholder Tzvetan Vassilev. More than half of the loans at the value of 2,5 billion BGN were given to companies related to Vassilev. The report also shows that the majority shareholder also used the bank for “personal transactions”. 243 corporate clients of the bank had 472 outstanding loans. These loans, according to the auditors, are unlikely to be recovered, because they were given to non-functioning enterprises or had little collateral, the Bulgarian National TV reported.\n\nThe run on CorpBank coincided with a run on another bank, First Investment Bank (\"FI Bank\"). Media reports and social media messages helped cause the run on both banks. However, the Bulgaria National Bank shut down CorpBank while keeping Fi Bank open with emergency liquidity. According to Nikolay Staykov of the Bulgarian Protest Network, CorpBank was brought down by the government in order to remove Vassilev, while the government protected FI Bank—the bank that Peevski moved his money into. The Bulgarian judicial system has a reputation for corruption. According to \"Forbes\", \"The removal of Vassilev from the scene leaves Peevski in effective control not only of Bulgarian media and secret services, but of its banking sector too. Such concentration of power is a cause for concern in a supposedly democratic country.\"\n\nAs of 2013, Peevski's media empire controlled six of the 12 largest circulating newspapers. It also had a monopoly on newspaper distribution and digital TV channels. By 2016, according to Radio Bulgaria, the number of newspapers he owned increased to more than 20.\n\nIn 2016, Peevski also owned several construction companies and was the owner of Bulgartabac, the biggest manufacturer and seller of tobacco and related products. “The Turkish Financial Crime Investigation Board (MASAK) and the Turkish Ministry of Customs and Trade on their part accused Bulgartabac of being one of the biggest cigarette-smuggling entities in Turkey and of being closely allied to the banned Kurdistan Workers’ Party, the PKK, which is on the European list of terrorist organizations,” according to Radio Bulgaria.\n\nIn early 2016, Peevski published a letter to the media where he said he would no longer start any new business projects in Bulgaria. He said his decision was due to an \"ongoing 'smear' campaign\" and political pressure.\n\nIn an analysis, Radio Bulgaria said it was difficult to pinpoint why Peevski was downsizing his business empire. However, they wrote:\"Still, some analysts say there is a connection between the shocks tearing across the Peevski conglomerate and the bankruptcy, two years ago, of the Corporate Commercial Bank with majority owner, Peevksi's own former business partner and friend Tsvetan Vasilev. There is ample evidence that it was precisely the crediting from that bank that helped Delyan Peevksi build his media empire, stone by stone, an empire that has been putting out tentacles into many other economic sectors and spheres. But the cheap (free?) financing is now gone and the media market is not particularly lucrative.\"\n"}
{"id": "47137343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47137343", "title": "European Information Technologies Certification Academy", "text": "European Information Technologies Certification Academy\n\nEuropean Information Technologies Certification Academy (EITCA) programme is an international professional ICT knowledge and skills certification standard, developed and governed by the EITCI Institute – a non-profit organization based in Brussels, that\nprovides certification of individuals' knowledge and skills in broad field-oriented areas of ICT expertise such as Computer graphics, Information security etc. The EITCA programmes, referred to as \"EITCA Academies\", include selected sets of several to over a dozen of individual EITC programmes, that together comprise a particular area of qualifications.\n\nAs of June 2015 the EITCA certification standard includes the following Academies:\n\n"}
{"id": "52920548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52920548", "title": "Gedeon Richter", "text": "Gedeon Richter\n\nGedeon Richter (23 September 1872 – 30 December 1944) was a Hungarian pharmacist, founder of Gedeon Richter plc and a pioneer of the modern Hungarian pharmaceutical industry.\n\nRichter was born in Ecséd, Hungary, but due to the death of his parents, from 1873 he grew up in Gyöngyös. From 1890 he worked there as a trainee pharmacist. In 1895 Richter completed his degree in pharmacology with a high mark at the Budapest University. Two years later, he travelled to several European pharmacies and pharmaceutical companies, studying their drug manufacturing methods. In 1901 he bought the pharmacy named as the \"Eagle\" at the corner on the Üllői Road and Márton Street in Budapest, producing organo-therapeutic drugs. In 1907, in Kőbánya, on 63 Cserkesz Street, he built, and took charge of, the first pharmaceutical factory in Hungary. The factory had its first major success with a kind of Aspirin called \"Kalmopyrin\", and the disinfectant hydrogen peroxide in tablets called \"Hyperol\", which were patented in 1912 and went on to play an important role in the World War I. Before the war, he already had 24 pharmaceutical patents.\n\nBy the start of World War II, his pharmaceutical network had representatives on five continents, with 10 subsidiaries and in 34 states with commission repositories.\n\nIn 1942, he was stripped from his position as director (due to anti-Semitic laws), and banned from his factory. Then he managed the company from his home with the staff he trusted. In the autumn of 1944 the factory activity was almost completely paralyzed. Even though he had the opportunity to leave Budapest and move to Switzerland, he did not want to leave the company. His wife and himself were hidden by Raoul Wallenberg with more than a thousand other Jews. After being caught, Richter was murdered by the Hungarian \"nyilas\" national socialists (Arrow Cross Party) in December 1944, along with others shot, and thrown into the ice cold Danube.\n\nAfter the war, the factory was rebuilt under the name of Richter Pharmaceutical Factory in Kőbánya. In 1972, on the 100th anniversary of Richter's birth, a commemorative medal was struck, and a memorial plaque was added to the \"Eagle\" pharmacy.\n\nRichter made the first organo-therapeutic composition for raising blood pressure, an adrenal hormone extract (adrenaline), and the \"Kalmopyrin\" and the Tonogen suprarenale which are all still used in medicine.\n\nHis family house now operates as a school, under the name \"Richter Gedeon Elementary School\" in Ecséd. The room in which he was born functions as a gym today.\n\nIn 1902 he married to Anna Winkler, the daughter of a timber manufacturer of Szeged, Hungary. The couple's only son, László was born in 1903. He studied chemistry at the ETH Zurich and followed his father's footsteps in the pharmaceutical industry.\n\nThe parents were practicing Jews, but László converted to the Christian faith of his bride, Ilona Lobmayer, before their marriage in 1932.\n\n"}
{"id": "2766421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2766421", "title": "Gloria Gould", "text": "Gloria Gould\n\nGloria Gould (1906 – August 16, 1943) was the socialite daughter of industrialist heir George Jay Gould I.\n\nShe was born on March 3, 1906, the youngest daughter of George Jay Gould I. In 1923 she became engaged to Henry A. Bishop, Jr., of Bridgeport, Connecticut. He was the son of Henry A. Bishop, Sr, who was the director of the Western Union Telegraph Co. Together Gloria and Henry had a daughter, Gloria Bishop. In 1928 Gloria divorced her first husband and she married Walter McFarlane Barker in 1930.\n\nGloria Gould drowned in the swimming pool of her home near Phoenix, Arizona in August 1943.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44853093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44853093", "title": "Grievance Redressal System", "text": "Grievance Redressal System\n\nGrievance Redressal System is a mechanism to receive and act on complaints and grievances reported by customers of a private organization or public citizens accessing a government (G2C) service.\n\nGrievance Redressal may be handled directly by organizations through their own websites or through call centers. A new innovation is smart web portals for grievance processing, connecting customers and action-takers directly through ICT media such as SMS and email.\n"}
{"id": "6081281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6081281", "title": "Igor I. Sikorsky Human Powered Helicopter Competition", "text": "Igor I. Sikorsky Human Powered Helicopter Competition\n\nThe Igor I. Sikorsky Human Powered Helicopter Competition was established in 1980 by the American Helicopter Society (AHS) International. The award, the AHS Sikorsky Prize, was given for the first human powered helicopter (HPH) to meet a set of extremely challenging flight requirements. In summary, the requirements to win the AHS Sikorsky Prize included a flight duration of 60 seconds and reaching an altitude of , with the center point of the aircraft hovering over a square.\n\nIn 2013, 33 years after the competition was established, the award was officially declared won when AeroVelo's Atlas human-powered helicopter conducted a flight that met all the requirements of the AHS International competition, and received the $250,000 prize.\n\nIn the history of the prize, dozens of teams have designed and built human-powered helicopters, although few have made it airborne.\n\nThe AHS competition was named in honor of Igor Sikorsky, one of the founders of the technical society. AHS initiated the prize purse at $25,000, but later raised it to $250,000.\n\nThe first HPH to get off the ground was the \"Da Vinci III\" in 1989, designed and built by students at Cal Poly San Luis Obispo in California, USA. It flew for 7.1 seconds and reached a height of . The second was the \"Yuri I\" in 1994, designed and built by students at Nihon University in Japan. It flew for 19.46 seconds and reached an altitude of 20 cm.\n\nWith no human-powered helicopter getting off the ground since 1994, in 2009 Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation pledged to AHS International an increase in the size of the remuneration to $250,000, which significantly increased interest in the competition. It resulted in a new generation of human-powered helicopter teams, with two—one the University of Maryland and the other AeroVelo—in a \"tight battle\" to win.\n\nStudents at the University of Maryland designed and built the \"Gamera I\". The \"Gamera I\" successfully flew on May 12, 2011 for approximately four seconds, soon followed by a flight of 11 seconds. In November 2011 construction began on the improved \"Gamera II\". On June 21, 2012, the \"Gamera II\" flew for a duration of 50 seconds. Additional tests of Gamera IIXR with a larger cruciform and longer rotors on August 28, 2012 yielded official world records of 65 seconds endurance on one flight and 8 ft altitude on another – the first \"high altitude\" flight of a human powered helicopter in history, and the first of the individual requirements to fall.\n\nOn June 24, 2012, the NTS Works Upturn human-powered helicopter also successfully flew for 10 seconds, climbing to about . NTS Works later donated the aircraft to the California Polytechnic State University which is developing it as the Upturn II.\n\nAeroVelo, comprising students and graduates of the University of Toronto, began flight testing its larger Atlas quad rotor HPH on August 28, 2012.\n\nOn 13 June 2013 AeroVelo kept its Atlas HPH airborne for 64.11 seconds, reaching 3.3 meters in altitude and drifting less than 9.8 meters. AHS International awarded AeroVelo the prize July 11th, after its Helicopter Competition Committee reviewed the flight data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25223405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25223405", "title": "InfoZoom", "text": "InfoZoom\n\nInfoZoom software is a data analysis, business intelligence and data visualization software product created using in-memory analytics. The software is created and supported by humanIT and the Fraunhofer Institute FIT , the same organization that created MP3 compression technology. The software has over 100,000 licensed users and over 1000 customers worldwide.\n\nInfoZoom software is developed by humanIT GmbH near Bonn, Germany. It was created in 1997 as a spin-off from the Fraunhofer Society which is the same scientific organization that contributed to MP3 compression technology. \nSince 2003, humanIT is a wholly owned subsidiary of proALPHA, an ERP (Enterprise resource planning) vendor based in Weilerbach, Germany. Today, InfoZoom is co-developed and supported by the Fraunhofer-Institut für Angewandte Informationstechnik (FIT), as known as the Fraunhofer Institute for Applied Information Technology in St. Augustin, Germany. \n\nInfoZoom v6.0 was released in March, 2009. The 64-bit version of InfoZoom was released as v6.4 in November 2009. InfoZoom v7.0 was released in November, 2010, with the release of v8.0 in November 2011.\n\nBy the end of 2009, InfoZoom had grown significantly reaching 36,000 licensed users and 800 client organizations worldwide and in 2011 reaching 50,000 users with 1000 clients.\n\nInfoZoom allows users to extract large amounts of information from multiple data sources, including any ODBC-compliant databases, Microsoft Excel, text files and other data sources. The software allows for data visualization of entire datasets through an easy to use graphical interface. The tool has applications in \"ad hoc\" data analysis and identification of data quality issues and has been used by major government organizations, including universities, as well as by corporations.\n\nInfoZoom is also integrated into other software products and used as the reporting and analytical module. It is also implemented for analysis on the internet or intranet.\n\nInfoZoom Software is available in four main product lines:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3658735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3658735", "title": "International Car of the Year", "text": "International Car of the Year\n\nThe International Car of the Year (ICOTY) awards are one of several annual \"car of the year\" awards around the world for new automobile models judged to be the best of their generation. This one is presented by the United States magazine \"Road & Travel Magazine\". Awards are given under ten different categories to new vehicles manufactured internationally and available on the US market. The awards ceremony is attended by 600 industry leaders and media on the evening before Press Days at the North American International Auto Show (NAIAS). The awards have been presented annually since 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6019115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6019115", "title": "Invested capital", "text": "Invested capital\n\nInvested capital represents the total cash investment that shareholders and debtholders have made in a company. There are two different but completely equivalent methods for calculating invested capital. The \"operating approach\" is calculated as:\n\nInvested capital = operating net working capital + net property, plant & equipment + capitalized operating leases + other operating assets + operating intangibles − other operating liabilities − cumulative adjustment for amortization of R&D\n\nEquivalently, the \"financing approach\" is calculated as\nIn symbols:\n\nInvested capital is used in several important measurements of financial performance, including return on invested capital, economic value added, and free cash flow.\n\n"}
{"id": "37316341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37316341", "title": "Jack Cleveland Casino", "text": "Jack Cleveland Casino\n\nJack Cleveland Casino (formerly Horseshoe Cleveland) is a casino in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, owned and operated by Jack Entertainment.\n\nJack Cleveland Casino is located in the former Higbee Building at Tower City Center in downtown Cleveland. It has of gaming space. The casino has 1,609 slot machines, 119 table games, and 35 electronic table games. The casino is accessible from Public Square, but is also accessible from the Terminal Tower and the Tower City Center shopping mall. The casino has teamed with the Renaissance, the Ritz-Carlton, and the Marriott at Key Center to offer rooms to its guests, and Rock Ohio Caesars purchased the Ritz-Carlton from Forest City Enterprises. The casino is open 24 hours a day and is completely smoke-free, compliant with Ohio law. Since the casino has limited dining options, it has partnered with nearly a dozen downtown Cleveland restaurants.\n\nOhio voters approved (53%) a state constitutional amendment in November 2009 authorizing casinos in the state’s four largest cities: Cleveland, Cincinnati, Columbus and Toledo. It was the fifth statewide vote to legalize gambling in Ohio over 20 years.\n\nHorseshoe Cleveland opened on May 14, 2012 as the first casino in the state of Ohio. It was developed by Rock Ohio Caesars, a joint venture between Caesars Entertainment and Dan Gilbert's Rock Gaming, and managed by Caesars.\n\nHollywood Casino Toledo, developed and operated by Penn National Gaming, opened on May 29, followed by Hollywood Columbus, which opened on October 8, 2012. Rock Ohio Caesars also developed Horseshoe Casino Cincinnati, which opened on March 4, 2013.\n\nGross casino revenues are taxed at 33 percent, one of the highest rates in the nation for a resort casino with this level of investment. Portions of the tax revenue are designated for public school districts; the four host cities; all 88 state counties; the Ohio State Racing Commission; law enforcement training; and research and treatment of problem gambling and substance abuse. The bipartisan Ohio Casino Control Commission was created in 2011 to develop rules for casino gaming in Ohio, to license operators and to regulate and ensure the integrity of operations. It is also funded by casino tax revenue.\n\nRock Gaming acquired Caesars Entertainment's 20% stake in Rock Ohio Caesars in February 2015, and later in the year announced that it would assume management of the properties, including Horseshoe Cleveland. Rock Gaming announced in February 2016 that the company and its casinos would rebrand under the Jack name. The casino closed for 40 hours in May 2016 to undergo its transition to the Jack name and management.\n\n"}
{"id": "18635288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18635288", "title": "James Ludington", "text": "James Ludington\n\nJames Ludington (April 18, 1827 – April 1, 1891) was an American entrepreneur, businessman, lumber baron, and real estate developer. As a businessman he would loan money to other businessmen. In one such loan he had to foreclose for delinquent payments on a sawmill operation in Michigan. He ultimately obtained the sawmill in the village of Pere Marquette. Ludington platted the land there and formed a town with a lumber company operation. He later sold his interest to the lumber company for a large sum of money and became very wealthy. The town later changed its name and became Ludington, Michigan, although he never lived there.\n\nJames was born in Carmel, New York on April 18, 1827. In 1843, the Ludington family moved from New York to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, when James was 16. James and his father, Lewis Ludington, founded Columbus, Wisconsin in 1845. In 1849, Utah Territorial Governor, Brigham Young, wrote to Ludington, soliciting his help in the construction of a paper mill in the Salt Lake Valley. Ludington planned to travel west to supervise the mill's construction, but the deal was never completed.\n\nOn October 11, 1854, Ludington loaned funds to George W. Ford for a sawmill operation in what was then known as the village of Pere Marquette in the northwestern part of the Lower Peninsula of Michigan. When Ford defaulted on the loan and became insolvent in 1859, Ludington took over the operations of this sawmill.\n\nIn 1854, Ludington filed for the purchase of unsold school land from the state of Wisconsin that was believed to contain some . The sale was challenged and ultimately cancelled when the parcel was identified as containing over . The purchase was re-filed after a further effort to specify which parcels were included. In 1855, the arrangements behind Ludington's purchase were investigated by James Halpin and Dr. Hunt, as to the amount of funds and whether they were properly appropriated. In 1856, Ludington was implicated in a bribery and fraud scheme surrounding the sale. He was cleared of wrongdoing after a lengthy legislative investigation and public testimony.\n\nLudington platted 360 acres of the land around Pere Marquette in 1867 and sold lots to individuals, developing the town. In the same year, he built a large commercial building, called \"The Big Store\" that sold a variety of goods. Also at that time Ludington founded the first newspaper in the village, the \"Mason County Record\". The sawmill that Ludington acquired developed into an independent entity, called the Pere Marquette Lumber Company, which operated and managed the sawmill and The Big Store. On July 24, 1869, Ludington sold his interests to the company for half a million dollars, making him a very wealthy person. Ludington used a portion of this money to develop the village. On March 22, 1873, the city of Ludington was chartered.\n\nLudington lived in New York state as a boy and in Wisconsin as an adult, but never lived in Ludington, Michigan, the town that bears his name. The streets of Ludington Avenue and James Street are named after him. The streets Lewis, William, Robert, Charles, Harrison, Emily, Lavina, and Delia are named after his family members. Ludington died on April 1, 1891, in his residence at Plankinton House Hotel in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He is buried at Carmel where he was born.\n\nAt one time or another, Ludington held the following positions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44500762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44500762", "title": "Kick the cat", "text": "Kick the cat\n\nKick the cat (or kick the dog) is a metaphor used to describe how a relatively high-ranking person in an organization or family displaces his or her frustrations by abusing a lower-ranking person, who may in turn take it out on his or her own subordinate.\n\nThe term has been used at least since the 19th century. According to author John Bradshaw, humans were far more cruel to cats at that time, to the extent that kicking one was not perceived to be unusual and hence entered the language as a popular idiom. \n\nThe concept was reinforced in British culture by a scene in the \"Blackadder\" episode \"Nob and Nobility\" in which Edmund Blackadder kicks the cat when annoyed, and the cat bites the mouse, and the mouse bites Baldrick.\n\nIn current usage, the name envisions a scenario where an angry or frustrated employee comes home from work looking for some way to take out his anger, but the only thing present is the cat. He physically abuses it as a means of relieving his frustration, despite the cat playing no part in causing it.\n\nKicking the cat is commonly used to describe the behaviour of staff abusing coworkers or subordinates as a mechanism to relieve stress. This behaviour can result in a chain reaction, where a higher-ranking member of the company abuses his or her subordinate, who takes it out on his or her own subordinate, and so on down the line. This domino effect can also be seen in family dynamics, where the father yells at the mother who yells at the older child who yells at the younger child who yells at the pet.\n\nBlaming others can lead to kicking the dog where individuals in a hierarchy blame their immediate subordinate, and this propagates down a hierarchy until the lowest rung (the \"dog\"). A 2009 experimental study has shown that blaming can be contagious even for uninvolved onlookers.\n\nAccording to \"Psychology Today\", \"Anger and frustration in one part of life can lead us to lash out at innocent people (or pets) in another.\" The technical term for this kind of behaviour is \"displaced aggression\".\n\nKicking the cat is looked upon unfavourably and viewed as a sign of poor anger management. According to author Steve Sonderman, \"Men funnel 90 percent of their emotions through anger\" and may \"kick the cat\" as a substitute for grief, anxiety or other emotions. Psychology author Raj Persaud suggests that people \"kick the cat\" as a means of catharsis because they fear expressing their full emotions to the peers and colleagues.\n"}
{"id": "15647428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15647428", "title": "Lex Ledesma", "text": "Lex Ledesma\n\nLex Ledesma is a Filipino entrepreneur, former competitive debater, and educator. He is one of the founders of The One School, a tertiary education institution in Manila's Central Business District of Makati whose curriculum has a prominent focus on imparting entrepreneurial skills.\n"}
{"id": "43253951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43253951", "title": "Louis Jean Baptiste Bergeron", "text": "Louis Jean Baptiste Bergeron\n\nLouis Jean Baptiste Bergeron (10 March 1876 – 23 February 1948) was a French entrepreneur, engineer and inventor.\n\nBergeron was born in Lagnieu. In 1900, he started work as an electrical engineer and made a career in the Farcot company in St Ouen, a factory of steam engines and high-power electrical machines. In 1918, together with Beaudrey, he co-founded the company Beaudrey-Bergeron, which later, after a friendly split with Beaudrey, became Bergeron S.A., now part of Alstom.\n\nHe is remembered for his practical, mathematical methodology to study water hammer in hydraulic pipe systems which he also showed to be useful in the study of electromagnetic voltage/current surges in electricity systems. His last work \"From water hammer in hydraulics to lightning surges in electricity\", published posthumously, became a reference work in electrical engineering.\n\nIn electrical engineering, application of so-called \"Bergeron equations\" allows the calculation of travelling wave phenomena in \"long\" conductors using numerical analysis. Hermann W. Dommel used these \"Bergeron equations\" in the EMTP (electromagnetic transient program) software in the late 1960s.\n"}
{"id": "42314055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42314055", "title": "Lucien Barrière", "text": "Lucien Barrière\n\nLucien Barrière (14 January 1923 – 17 September 1990) was a French entrepreneur and businessman. He was the heir and founder of the Lucien Barrière group, one of the largest group of casinos, luxury hotels, resorts and restaurants.\n\nHe was born in the French Ardèche region from a modest, goat raising family.\n\nIn 1962, he was chosen by his uncle François André, who had no direct descendants, to succeed him as head of several successful companies specializing in the operation of casinos and luxury hotels. The casinos of Deauville, Cannes and La Baule and the hotels Normandy Barriere, Royal Barriere and the Hotel du Golf Barriere de Deauville were among the best known assets of the company.\n\nIn 1959, he became the general manager of the group. For thirty years he developed the successful Barriere empire following the same policy as his predecessor: luxury, sophistication, perfection, elegance, refinement, friendliness and cultivating the French joie de vivre.\n\nHe married Martha Szentgyörgyi (died October 11, 2008), a Hungarian dancer. Martha had a daughter from a previous marriage, Diane, born in 1957, which he adopted and raised as his own. He taught her the know-how of the trade, before designating her as the sole heir of his luxury empire.\n\nIn 1962, he founded the Lucien Barrière group, one of the first French companies charged with managing casinos and luxury hotels.\n\nIn 1975, Lucien Barrière sponsored the creation of the American Film Festival in Deauville, alongside the major proponents of this idea, the Mayor of Deauville Michel d'Ornano, André Halimi and Lionel Shushan.\n\nIn 1990, he died at Caen University Hospital of cardiac arrest at the age of 67, following complications resulting from a coronary angioplasty carried out by Professor Grollier. Diane, married to the notary Dominique Desseigne, succeeded her adoptive father as head of the group and pursued the same successful policy as her predecessors. In July 1995 she was the victim of a serious plane crash that left her quadriplegic, and later died in May 2001 at 44 years.\n"}
{"id": "5571035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5571035", "title": "Maus Gatsonides", "text": "Maus Gatsonides\n\nMaurice (\"Maus\") Gatsonides (February 14, 1911 in Gombong, Kebumen Regency – November 29, 1998 in Heemstede) was a Dutch rally driver and inventor. Gatsonides was born in Central Java in the former Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia). He founded the company \"Gatsometer BV\" in the Netherlands in 1958.\n\nToday, Gatsonides' fame largely results from inventing the Gatso speed camera, a speed measuring device used today by many police forces to catch speeding drivers. He originally invented the Gatso speed camera to measure his cornering speed in an attempt to improve his driving.\n\nGatsonides is primarily known for inventing the speed camera, but his primary interest was in motor racing. Maurice was passionate about racing and raced in many events. However, in 1949, he built his own car. It was nicknamed the \"Platje\" (English: \"Flatty\") because of its aerodynamic shape. The car caused a sensation at the Dutch Zandvoort Racetrack, passing all of the opponents including MG's. Maurice was forced to sell the Flatty to pay creditors after trying to put his own V8 sportscar into production. The Flatty however, survived. It was found abandoned in the 1970s and has now been restored by Joop Bruggeman. It is the last surviving Gatso car. Gatsonides won the Monte Carlo Rally in 1953 driving a Ford Zephyr.\n\n"}
{"id": "45395473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45395473", "title": "Media intelligence", "text": "Media intelligence\n\nMedia Intelligence uses data mining and data science to analyze public social and editorial media content. It refers to marketing systems that synthesize billions of online conversations into relevant information that allow organizations to measure and manage content performance, understand trends, and drive communications and business strategy.\n\nMedia intelligence can include software as a service using big data terminology. This includes questions about messaging efficiency, share of voice, audience geographical distribution, message amplification, influencer strategy, journalist outreach, creative resonance, and competitor performance in all these areas.\n\nMedia intelligence differs from business intelligence in that it uses and analyzes data outside company firewalls. Examples of that data are user-generated content on social media sites, blogs, comment fields, and wikis etc. It may also include other public data sources like press releases, news, blogs, legal filings, reviews and job postings.\n\nMedia Intelligence may also include competitive intelligence, wherein information that is gathered from publicly available sources such as social media, press releases, and news announcements are used to better understand the strategies and tactics being deployed by competing businesses. \n\nMedia Intelligence is enhanced by means of emerging technologies like semantic tagging, Natural Language Processing, sentiment analysis and machine translation. \n\nDifferent media intelligence platforms use different technologies for monitoring, curating content, engaging with content, data analysis and measurement of communications and marketing campaign success. These technology providers, such as BuzzCovery Meltwater, Synoptos, Radian 6, or Sysomos may obtain content by scraping content directly from websites or by connecting to the API provided by social media or other content platforms that are created for 3rd party developers to develop their own applications and services that access data. Facebook's Graph API is one such API that social media monitoring solution products would connect to pull data from. Technology companies may also get data from a data reseller, such as DataSift (acquired by Meltwater), Gnip (acquired by Twitter), LexisNexis, or Dow Jones/Factiva.\n\nSome social media monitoring and analytics companies use calls to data providers each time an end-user develops a query. Others archive and index social media posts to provide end users with on-demand access to historical data and enable methodologies and technologies leveraging network and relational data. Additional monitoring companies use crawlers and spidering technology to find keyword references, known as semantic analysis or natural language processing. Basic implementation involves curating data from social media on a large scale and analyzing the results to make sense out of it.\n\n"}
{"id": "503172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=503172", "title": "Michigan Avenue (Chicago)", "text": "Michigan Avenue (Chicago)\n\nMichigan Avenue is a north-south street in Chicago which runs at 100 east on the Chicago grid. The northern end of the street is at Lake Shore Drive on the shore of Lake Michigan in the Gold Coast Historic District. The street's southern terminus is at Sibley Boulevard in the southern suburb of Harvey, though like many Chicago streets it exists in several disjointed segments.\n\nAs the home of the Chicago Water Tower, the Art Institute of Chicago, Millennium Park, and the shopping on the Magnificent Mile, it is a street well known to Chicago natives as well as tourists to the city. Michigan Avenue also is the main commercial street of Streeterville. It includes all of the Historic Michigan Boulevard District and most of the Michigan–Wacker Historic District, including the scenic urban space anchored by the Michigan Avenue Bridge.\n\nThe oldest section of Michigan Avenue is the portion that currently borders Grant Park in the Chicago Loop section of the city. The name came from Lake Michigan, which until 1871 was immediately east of Michigan Avenue. The street at that time ran north to the Chicago River and south to the city limits. Originally, Michigan Avenue was primarily residential, and by the 1860s, large homes and expensive row houses dominated Michigan Avenue.\n\nAt no point is Michigan Avenue currently called Michigan Boulevard, but prior to the Great Chicago Fire of 1871, the street was officially known as Michigan Boulevard and often referred to as \"Boul Mich\". But in the 1900-1907 Ads for the Chicago Musical College, the address was referred to as \"202 Michigan Boul.\" As recently as the 1920s, North Michigan Avenue (especially the Magnificent Mile) was referred to as \"Upper Boul Mich\". Paris's Boulevard Saint-Michel is the original Boul Mich.\n\nNorth of the Chicago River today's Michigan Avenue was known as Pine Street. In 1866 a small portion of Pine Street was \"vacated\" and moved eighty (80) feet further west of the original Pine street location to accommodate the installation of the new pumping station's standpipe. This standpipe, engineered to regulate water pressure, would be housed within architect William W. Boyington's castle structure (Water Tower) that still stands on that site today. In 1869 the Board of Public Works began paving Pine Street from Chicago Avenue to Whitney street (today, Walton street) the northern terminus, with Belgian wood blocks also known as Nicolson pavement.\n\nPine Street was renamed to Lincoln Park Boulevard as far south as Ohio Street when the street connected with Lake Shore Drive in the early 1890s, and then became part of Michigan Avenue, which already had the name Michigan Avenue (Michigan Boulevard before the Great Chicago Fire in 1871) south of the Chicago River. Both the North and South Michigan Avenues were joined physically with the opening of the Michigan Avenue bridge in 1920. In 1926, after years of clogged automobile traffic, the water tower and pumping station were separated by realigning Michigan Avenue to run between them.\n\nIn the Great Fire of 1871, all buildings on Michigan Avenue from Congress Street north to the river were destroyed. Immediately after the fire, the character of Michigan remained residential, but the street no longer was directly on the lake shore, as after the Fire, wreckage from the burnt district was used to fill in the inner harbor of Chicago, beginning the landfills that by the 1920s had moved the lake shore more than a quarter-mile east of its original shoreline, creating space for an expanded Grant Park. Beginning in the 1880s, the expansion of the central business district replaced houses on Michigan Avenue so that today, Michigan's character is primarily commercial north of 35th Street.\n\nThe first city showcase on Michigan Avenue was the Exposition Building, which was built on the current site of the Art Institute, the east side of Michigan at Adams, in 1874. By the 1890s, an imposing wall of buildings was constructed on the west side of Michigan Avenue downtown, including the Auditorium Building and the main branch of the Chicago Public Library (now the Chicago Cultural Center). As the east side of Michigan Avenue downtown was developed as a park, the wall of buildings lining the west side of Michigan Avenue across from the park became the nucleus of the city's skyline.\n\nIn 1924, the first traffic lights in Chicago were installed on Michigan Avenue after John D. Hertz fronted the city $34,000 for the purchase, installation, and maintenance.\n\nHistorically, Illinois Route 1 and U.S. Route 41 were routed on Michigan Avenue. Illinois Route 1 has been truncated to Chicago's south side and U.S. Route 41 is now routed on Lake Shore Drive.\n\nMichigan Avenue originally ended at the Chicago River, and what is now Michigan Avenue north of the river was originally named Pine Street, after scattered pine trees originally found in its vicinity. As early as 1891 plans were proposed to extend Michigan Avenue north across the river. An early plan called for a tunnel to link Michigan Avenue south of the river with Pine Street, and in 1903 an editorial in the \"Chicago Tribune\" newspaper proposed a new Bascule bridge across the river at Michigan Avenue.\n\nThis plan was further elaborated upon in Daniel Burnham's 1909 Plan of Chicago, and in 1911 a plan was selected that included the widening of Michigan Avenue from Randolph Street to the river, replacing the Rush Street bridge with a new bridge at Michigan Avenue and the construction of a double-decked boulevard along Pine Street as far as Ohio Street. When the Michigan Avenue Bridge was completed, Pine Street was renamed Michigan Avenue. At its north end it merges into Lake Shore Drive near the Drake Hotel.\n\nToday, the area north of the Chicago River is referred to as the \"Magnificent Mile\", or sometimes simply the Mag Mile. It contains a mixture of upscale department stores, restaurants, high-end retailers, office buildings and hotels, and caters primarily to tourists and the affluent. The area also has a high concentration of the city's advertising agencies and major media firms, including the \"Chicago Tribune\".\n\nIt is the home of Chicago's famous Water Tower landmark, Water Tower Park with its historic clock, as well as the eight-level Water Tower Place shopping center which grew up next door to, and overshadowed, the comparatively diminutive landmark. North of the shopping center can be found the famous John Hancock Center, the art deco Palmolive Building (also known as the \"Playboy\" Building) and the lavish Drake Hotel. The entire mile is noted for its spectacular Christmas displays. At the northern edge of this district can be found the One Magnificent Mile building; Chicago Landmark East Lake Shore Drive District, an extremely expensive and exclusive one-block area of real estate running east from North Michigan Avenue and facing directly onto Lake Michigan; and the on-ramp to northbound Lake Shore Drive.\n\nFor a few blocks on both sides of the Chicago River, the road is double-decked, including the bridge over the river. The lower level north of the river is where the famous Billy Goat Tavern is located, and south of the river it intersects with Lower Wacker Drive. On the upper lever, tall office buildings and hotels line both sides of the Avenue, until Millennium Park.\n\nThe portion of Michigan Avenue opposite Grant Park is the Chicago Landmark Historic Michigan Boulevard District. Major cultural institutions, such as the Chicago Cultural Center, Symphony Center, and the Auditorium Theater are located here, as are many late 19th and early 20th century skyscrapers. In 2009, the Chicago Cultural Mile Association was created to bring \"awareness of the unique strengths and diverse offerings available to visitors\" in this portion of Michigan Avenue.\n\nThe Art Institute of Chicago is across the boulevard, in Grant Park along the Avenue. Several large historic hotels are located just south of Congress Parkway, including the Hilton Towers Chicago (formerly, the Stevens Hotel), the Congress Plaza Hotel and the Blackstone Hotel. Between them is the Spertus Institute of Jewish Studies.\n\nThe Avenue extends south into Near South Side, Chicago and beyond – past what was once the notorious Levee District, the graceful homes of the Prairie Avenue District, the historic Second Presbyterian Church, the former home of the legendary Chess Records at 2120 South Michigan and the site where the Lexington Hotel, a hideout of Al Capone, once stood.\n\nSouth of Cermak Road is the Motor Row District, a historic strip along Michigan Avenue that was home to many early 20th century automobile \"palaces.\" A point of interest in this area is the former Illinois Automobile Club, which later was used as the home of the Chicago Defender, a prominent African-American Chicago newspaper at 2400 South Michigan. A little bit further south is Bronzeville, a historic black community in Chicago. Points of interest include the historic Mercy Hospital and Medical Center, the Illinois College of Optometry and the South Side Community Art Center.\n\nThe intersection of Michigan Avenue and 35th Street is home to two important local institutions. On the northwest corner is De La Salle Institute, a Catholic high school which was attended by future Chicago mayors Richard J. Daley, Richard M. Daley, and Michael Bilandic. On the southwest corner is the Chicago Police Department Headquarters. Michigan Avenue continues through the South Side and dead ends at 63rd Street, just north of a rail yard and parking lots.\n\nThe Avenue continues heading south at 66th Street to Marquette Road, where it moves a half-block to the east back into alignment with the run north of 63rd Street. It then continues south to 89th Street where it dead ends once again for a housing subdivision and a railroad line. It resumes at 91st Street heading south through the working class Roseland community, featuring a large commercial strip along Michigan between 111th and 115th streets. The street dead ends again at 127th Street just before the Cal-Sag Channel. It begins again in the south suburb of Riverdale before finally terminating at Sibley Boulevard or IL RT-83.\n\nThe CTA Red Line's Chicago and Grand stations are useful for reaching the Magnificent Mile. The Jackson station is close to the Art Institute, as are Loop stations on the Brown, Pink and Blue lines. Millennium and Van Buren Street Stations are located along Michigan Avenue serving the Metra Electric and South Shore Lines. The avenue is also traversed by a multitude of bus routes and taxi cabs primarily in the Downtown and Magnificent Mile areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1760278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1760278", "title": "Military Units to Aid Production", "text": "Military Units to Aid Production\n\nMilitary Units to Aid Production or UMAPs (Unidades Militares de Ayuda a la Producción) were agricultural labor camps operated by the Cuban government from November 1965 to July 1968 in the province of Camagüey. The UMAP camps served as a form of alternative civilian service for Cubans who could not serve in the military due to being, conscientious objectors, Christians and other religious people, homosexuals, or political enemies of Fidel Castro or his communist revolution. The language used in the title can be misleading, as pointed by historian Abel Sierra Madero, \"The hybrid structure of work camps cum military units served to camouflage the true objectives of the recruitment effort and to distance the UMAPs from the legacy of forced labor.\"The majority of UMAP servicemen were conscientious objectors. A small portion or about 8% to 9% of the inmates were homosexual men, Jehovah's Witnesses, Seventh-day Adventists, Catholic priests and Protestant ministers, intellectuals, farmers who resisted collectivization, as well as anyone else considered \"anti-social\" or \"counter-revolutionary\". Former Intelligence Directorate agent Norberto Fuentes estimated that of approximately 35,000 internees, 507 ended up in psychiatric wards, 72 died from torture, and 180 committed suicide. A 1967 human rights report from the Organization of American States found that over 30,000 internees are \"forced to work for free in state farms from 10 to 12 hours a day, from sunrise to sunset, seven days per week, poor alimentation with rice and spoiled food, unhealthy water, unclean plates, congested barracks, no electricity, latrines, no showers, inmates are given the same treatment as political prisoners.\" The report concludes that the UMAP camps’ two objectives are \"facilitating free labor for the state\" and \"punishing young people who refuse to join communist organizations.\" The Cuban government maintained that the UMAPs are not labor camps, but part of military service. In a 2010 interview with \"La Jornada\", Fidel Castro admitted in response to a question about the UMAP camps that \"Yes, there were moments of great injustice, great injustice!\" Historically the Cuban government has presented UMAPs as a mistake, but according to Abel Sierra Madero, this institution has to be understood as part of a project of “social engineering” tailored for political and social control. Sophisticated methodologies were deployed that incorporated judicial, military, educational, medical and psychiatric apparatuses.\"\nIt is rumored that the UMAP camps were initially proposed by Fidel Castro and implemented by Raúl Castro after a state visit to the Soviet Union and Bulgaria, where he learned that the Soviets ran camps for \"anti-socials\". According to an April 14, 1966 article in \"Granma\", the official state newspaper, the UMAP camps were proposed at a November 1965 meeting between Fidel Castro and military leaders. Both were concerned over how to handle \"misplaced elements\".\n\n\"Quedaba por ver el caso de una serie de elementos desubicados, vagos, que ni trabajaban, ni estudiaban. ¿Qué hacer con ellos? La cuestión era tema de preocupación para los dirigentes de la Revolución.\"\n\"Un día del mes de noviembre del pasado año (1965) un grupo de oficiales se encontraban reunidos en el Estado Mayor General y discutían estas cuestiones. Hablaban con Fidel, el cual compartía esas mismas preocupaciones y le propusieron la creación de la UMAP.\" \n\n\"Still left to consider was the case of misplaced elements, deadbeats, those who neither studied nor worked. What can be done with these people? This question was the worrying concern for the leaders of the Revolution.\nOne day in November of last year, 1965, a group of military officials met to discuss these questions. They spoke with Fidel, who shared these concerns and proposed to him the creation of the UMAP.\"\"\n\nPaul Kidd, a Canadian foreign news correspondent, provides the only known first-hand, third party account of the UMAP camps. Kidd traveled to Cuba on August 29, 1966 to write for Southam News Service. On September 8, the Cuban foreign ministry asked him to leave \"by the first flight\" because he took photographs of anti-aircraft guns visible from his hotel room window and exhibited an incorrect attitude toward the revolution in an article he had published earlier.\n\nDuring this trip, Kidd departed Havana and wandered through the rural, former province of Camaguey where he encountered a UMAP labor camp near the hamlet of El Dos de Cespedes. The barbed-wire enclosed camp was run by 10 security guards and held 120 internees, consisting of Jehovah's Witnesses, Roman Catholics, and \"those loosely termed 'social misfits' by the government\". The ages of the inmates ranged from 16 years old to over 60. None of the internees were given arms; all weapons at the camp were under the control of the ten guards running the camp.\n\nThe internees worked an average of 60 hours a week for a monthly income of 7 pesos (roughly worth a meal) and their internment typically lasted for at least six months. Cubans who served in the standard SMO (\"Servicio Militar Obligatorio\", \"Obligatory Military Service\") received the same monthly wage of 7 pesos a month.\n\nAs long as their agricultural quotas were met, most internees at the camp were allowed a break to visit family after six months of internment. Family members were allowed to visit internees at the camp on the second Sunday of each month and could bring personal items such as cigarettes to internees.\n\nInternees at the camp Kidd discovered were housed in two long, white concrete buildings with no windows just the hole in the wall which had bunk beds with sacks slung between wooden beams for mattresses. After agricultural work was complete, internees were instructed in communist ideology for two hours every night.\n\nKidd estimated that about 200 such camps existed and in total housed about 30,000 people.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "324670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324670", "title": "Mouvement des Entreprises de France", "text": "Mouvement des Entreprises de France\n\nThe Mouvement des entreprises de France (MEDEF), or the Movement of the Enterprises of France, is the largest employer federation in France. Established in 1998, it replaced the Conseil national du patronat Français (CNPF), or the \"National Council of the French Employers\", which was founded in 1946.\n\nIt has more than 750,000 member firms, 90 percent of them being small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with fewer than 50 employees. MEDEF is engaged in lobbying at local, regional, national, and EU-wide levels.\n\nEvery year, MEDEF International organises a number of delegations of French business leaders with tangible projects to targeted countries, especially developing countries. MEDEF espouses “sustainable development”, raising companies’ awareness to the fact that environmental protection can also feature among their competitive advantages.\n\nIts current president, is Geoffrey Roux de Bezieux as of July 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47543241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47543241", "title": "Nikolai von Meck", "text": "Nikolai von Meck\n\nNikolai Karlovich von Meck (28 April 1863 – 24 May 1929) was a Russian engineer and entrepreneur involved in the development of the Russian railways during the first part of the twentieth century. He was put on trial as part of the Shakhty Trial and executed in 1929.\n\nNikolai was the sixth son of Karl Otto Georg von Meck who came from an old Baltic-German noble family originally from Silesia and Nadezhda von Meck out of eleven children in total. His father Karl was among Russia’s first railroad-builders after Russia's defeat in the Crimean War motivated the tsar to make with the modernizing. Karl died suddenly in 1876. His mother inherited a substantial fortune and became a patron of the arts. Alongside her intense but platonic relationship with Pyotr Tchaikovsky, she also brought Nikolai into contact with such people as Claude Debussy, who stayed with the family as a young man. Nikolai recorded that Debussy acquired the family nickname \"le boulliant Achille\".\n\nIn 1883, Nikolai married Anna Davydova, the niece of Tchaikovsky.\nHe entered the Imperial College of Law in St. Petersburg. Deciding to give up a career in law and devote himself exclusively to the railway business, he asked his mother permission to leave school without receiving his degree. Lack of higher education did not stop him, he started his career with the development of the foundations, having worked at the depot fireman, engineer, clerk Nikolaev railway.\nSince 1884, a candidate member of the Board of the Moscow-Ryazan railway, and on November 1, 1890, a Member of the Board.\nIn 1891, he was appointed to run the Moscow-Kazan railway.\n\nMore than a quarter-century, up to the nationalization in 1918, his name was linked to actively expand the company and its involvement in the development of the Russian transport system. For the first nine years of his management of the length of the lines of the Moscow-Kazan railway increased from 233 kilometers to 2.1 thousand kilometers. Achievements of the company were due to von Meck conducted technical policy to ensure the professionalism of staff, modernization of technical equipment, the thoroughness of the design and survey works. He enjoyed a well-deserved reputation not only for its own employees and business partners, but also in government circles and among members of the ruling house. The composition of the Company's shareholders included major banks of Russia.\n\nIn 1903, as chairman of the Board of the Moscow-Kazan Railway, responsible for organizing the pilgrimage of Nicholas II and his family in the Sarov monastery. Nikolai von Meck at the beginning of Russian-Japanese War led charity cargoes sent to the Far East Department of the Committee of Grand Duchess to raise funds in aid of the army under the shadow of the Russian Red Cross Society.\n\nTaking care of training, he opened technical schools, the Company participated in the dissemination of useful activity books. It supports the organization of consumer cooperatives for the supply of railroad products.\n\nIn 1912, at the Moscow-sorting station began to build an apartment building, and the station Prozorovskaya founded a settlement, loan for purchase of plots which were given to employees of the road in the amount of three-year salary for a period of 10 years. The project involved the improvement of electricity and telephone networks, water supply, tram lines, hospitals, buildings of public meetings. Full implementation of plans prevented the war began in 1914.\n\nIn 1899, he bought one of the first motor cars in Russia, became interested in motor sport racing, and in 1903, became one of the founders and the first head of the Moscow Automobile Club, the organizer and the participants of the first Russian automobile races in 1910–11. The owner of the license plate in Moscow - 84, 588, 679.\n\nMember of the Russian Automobile Society (RAA), Kiev Automobile Club (KAC), Life Member, formed in 1910 by the Imperial Russian Automobile Society (IRAS) - committee member, vice-president, a member of the technical commission.\n\n- Member of the Board of the Russian Society of the sea, river and land transport and insurance of luggage and warehouses with the issuance of loans;\n\n- Honorary trustee, honorary member of the volunteer fire brigade of Fominsk city;\n\n- Fellow trustee of Trinity Hospital for terminally-ill women Society for the Promotion of diligence in Moscow;\n\n- Member of the Imperial Philanthropic Society;\n\n- Treasurer warehouse handicrafts, was held under the patronage of Her Most August Imperial Highness the Grand Duchess Elizabeth Feodorovna;\n\n- Member of the Moscow branch of the Imperial Russian Musical Society;\n\n- Member of the Supervisory Board of the Office of the Moscow Synodal School of Church singing and Synod choir (the Moscow Synodal office in the Kremlin, the Head - Duke A.A.Shirinsky-Shikhmatov);\n\n- A member of the Finance Committee, the Moscow Province Zemstvo Assembly 1913–1915;\n\n- Deputy Chairman of the Moscow Society of aeronautics PA von Plehve (1910);\n\n- Member of the organizing committee of the Moscow to collect donations on the fleet, donor funds for the construction of an airplane in 1913;\n\n- Member of the Russian-American Chamber of Commerce;\n\n- Member of the Historical and Genealogical Society in Moscow;\n\n- Board of Trustees of a famous girls' school Bess, later its owner;\n\n- Member of the Society spread of useful books;\n\n- Member of the Board of the Russian-Asian Bank.\n\nVon Meck hoped that his knowledge and experience would continue to be useful to the Soviet state. He continued to take an interest in developing the railway transport system and served as a consultant to the financial and economic department of the People's Commissariat of Railways. He represented the Commissar on the State Planning Commission. Von Meck outlined his ideas in the field of economics and prospects for domestic rail transport in a series of books published between 1921 and 1927.\n\nDespite this, due to his \"bourgeois\" origins, he was repeatedly arrested on various charges from 1919 onward, accused of, among other things, \"counter-revolutionary speeches against the Soviet system\" and being part of a \"technological counter-revolution.\" He was arrested for the final time in 1928, and in May 1929 the OGPU (forerunner of the KGB) sentenced him to death for wrecking; that is, attempts to sabotage Soviet authority through substandard work. He was shot to death and his execution was announced on 24 May 1929.\n\nNikolai and Anna had six children:\n\n\nIn 1904 von Meck adopted Helen, whose parents—each Nikolai Karlovich barrister Alexander Hackman and his wife died during the cholera epidemic, the mother of Academician Nikita N. Moiseev.\n\nThe best introduction of Nikolai von Meck could be the words of Grand Duchess Elizabeth Feodorovna, who described him as \"an honest servant of the King and Fatherland\".\n"}
{"id": "49055641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49055641", "title": "Odournet", "text": "Odournet\n\nOdournet is a Netherlands-based international consultancy company specializing in environmental and product odor management and assessment. Odournet also manufactures products for odor assessment like olfactometers and other odor testing and sampling equipment. The company has labs and offices in nations like the United Kingdom, Spain, France, India, Brazil, and others.\n\nThe precursor to Odournet, Project Research Amsterdam, was founded in 1980 by Anton Philip \"Ton\" van Harreveld. The sole proprietorship sought to more efficiently characterize and abate odors in environmental settings. The first computerized olfactometer was developed by VanHarreveld's then unipersonal company Project Research Amsterdam. This company was incorporated as a limited, Project Research Amsterdam BV in 1989, adding environmental consultant Frans Vossen as co-founder. The company became known as Odournet in 1993, and they opened their first international office in Bradford on Avon, England the following year.\n\nIn 2009, Odournet merged with Ecoma and OLFAtec, two similar odor management consultancy companies based in Germany. Ecoma and OLFAtec were absorbed into Odournet under the terms of the merger. Founder Ton van Harreveld served as Odournet's CEO until 2014. He stepped down from the position, allowing Simon Rützel-Grünberg to take over. Van Harreveld remains a board member and the chief innovation officer at the company.\n\nIn 2015, Odournet GmbH (Kiel) and Odournet BV (Amsterdam) left the Odournet group and became Olfasense. Van Harreveld resumed his function as CEO at Odournet. \n\nOver the course of its existence, Odournet has added laboratories and offices throughout the world. It opened laboratories in Manchester, England in 2012 and Goa, India in 2015. The company also maintains a lab in the Research Park at the Autonomous University of Barcelona in Spain. Other office and lab locations include Brazil, Germany, France and more.\n\nOdournet provides odor management consultancy and odor assessments. Its services can be categorized into four areas: environmental odor management; product and material testing; odour measurement equipment; and calibration and proficiency testing for other odor labs. A large portion of the company's revenue derives from environmental odor management as many companies in Europe and North America must adhere to odor emissions guidelines.\n\nThe company uses olfactometers, gas chromatographs, and mass spectrometers to isolate and identify the prevalence of odors in a given environment. They also use trained professionals to identify odors. In certain cases, the company may be asked to simply identify the source of an odor. For instance, in 2003, Ireland's Environmental Protection Agency hired Odournet to identify a distinctive scent in the town of Shannon. In other cases, Odournet will employ odor panelists whose job is to simply identify \"nuisance odors.\" Odors that are intense or particularly bad may be labeled \"nuisance odors.\" Smells are collected with pumps and plastic odor bags and must be analyzed within 30 hours of collection. \n\nOdournet labs are also used to qualitatively and quantitatively assess odors in particular products and materials, including pharmaceuticals, chemicals, automotive products, foods, personal care products, fragrances, appliances, and more.\n\n"}
{"id": "15515380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15515380", "title": "Operational planning", "text": "Operational planning\n\nOperational planning is the process of planning strategic goals and objectives to tactical goals and objectives. It describes milestones, conditions for success and explains how, or what portion of, a strategic plan will be put into operation during a given operational period, in the case of commercial application, a fiscal year or another given budgetary term. An operational plan is the basis for, and justification of an annual operating budget request. Therefore, a five-year strategic plan would typically require five operational plans funded by five operating budgets.\n\nOperational plans should establish the activities and budgets for each part of the organization for the next 1 – 3 years. They link the strategic plan with the activities the organization will deliver and the resources required to deliver them. \n\nAn operational plan draws directly from agency and program strategic plans to describe agency and program missions and goals, program objectives, and program activities. Like a strategic plan, an operational plan addresses four questions:\n\nThe operations plan is both the first and the last step in preparing an operating budget request. As the first step, the operations plan provides a plan for resource allocation; as the last step, the OP may be modified to reflect policy decisions or financial changes made during the budget development process. \n\nOperational plans should be prepared by the people who will be involved in implementation. There is often a need for significant cross-departmental dialogue as plans created by one part of the organization inevitably have implications for other parts.\n\nOperational plans should contain:\n\n"}
{"id": "47168886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47168886", "title": "Orrin Henry Ingram Sr.", "text": "Orrin Henry Ingram Sr.\n\nOrrin Henry Ingram Sr. (a.k.a. Hank Ingram) (June 26, 1904 – April 25, 1963) was an American heir and businessman.\n\nOrrin Henry Ingram Sr. was born on June 26, 1904 in Eau Claire, Wisconsin. His father, Erskine B. Ingram, was a lumber heir. His mother was Harriet Coggshall. His parents were members of the Congregational Church.\n\nHis paternal grandfather three times removed, David Ingram, had immigrated from Leeds, England, in 1780. His paternal grandfather, Orrin Henry Ingram, was a lumber baron in Wisconsin. His great-uncle, Julius Ingram, was a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly.\n\nIn 1928, Ingram ran a textile firm in Tennessee owned by his wife's family. He relocated it to Nashville, Tennessee. By 1937, at the time of the textile strike, he sold half his investment and acquired Wood River Oil and Refining, an oil company based in St. Louis, Missouri.\n\nHe was the owner of Ingram Oil & Refining, a chain of 240 gas stations headquartered in Meraux, just outside New Orleans, Louisiana. In 1961, he sold the company to Murphy Oil.\n\nIngram served as the Vice President of the Board of Trust of Vanderbilt University in Nashville from 1952 to 1963.\n\nIngram married Hortense Bigelow, the daughter of the President of the St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Co. (later known as The Travelers Companies). They resided in White Bear Lake, Minnesota, Hobe Sound, Florida, and Nashville, Tennessee. They had two sons, E. Bronson Ingram II and Frederic B. Ingram, and a daughter, Alice, who married Henry William Hooker.\n\nHe died of a heart attack on April 25, 1963 in Nashville, Tennessee. He was buried at Mount Olivet Cemetery in Nashville.\n\nThe Hank Ingram House on the campus of Vanderbilt University was named in his honor in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "46200930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46200930", "title": "Rafael Resnick Brenner", "text": "Rafael Resnick Brenner\n\nRafael Resnick Brenner is an Argentinian lawyer and businessman who served as chief of staff of the Federal Administration of Public Revenue (Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos, or AFIP) from 2009 to 2011. He is one of the six defendants in the Boudougate case.\n\nResnick Brenner was unknown to the general public until Boudougate. He is accused of being responsible for managing an “outrageous” payment plan whereby the government would pay 240 million pesos that was owed by the printing firm Ciccone Calcográfica to a collection agency.\n\nResnick Brenner was born in 1963 or 1964. In the 1990s he bought an apartment in the Belgrano district of Buenos Aires.\n\nAs of January 1999, he was president of the Club de Campo Pueyrredón, an exclusive residential area along the Pan American Highway near the city of Pilar. “The idea is to be able to live in peace without being inside a prison. It doesn't have to be a fortress to make you feel secure,” Resnick Brenner said about the club.\n\nAs of 2007, Resnick Brenner was working with Adevifta, the Argentinian Association for the Defense of Family Housing. Adevifra is a group of homeowners with mortgage debts dating back to the 1980s. Some sources identify him as director of that organization, while others described him as council for Adevifra. In August 2007, Resnick Brenner filed a complaint on behalf of Adevifra against two former Economy Ministers, Eduardo Elsztain and Felisa Miceli, accusing them of fraud and “breach of the duties of public officials to the detriment of public administration.” Specifically, the defendants were charged with involvement in a scheme whereby home purchasers receiving mortages from the Hipotecario Bank were diverted to law firms that doubled or tripled their down payments.\n\nIn 2009, Resnick Brenner was hired as chief of staff of the Federal Administration of Public Revenue (Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos, or AFIP). His superior was Ricardo Echegaray, whom he had met at a rugby club.\n\nAt the time he began the job, he had assets of 26,300 pesos. By 2010, according to information presented to the Anticorruption Office, Resnick Brenner had increased his assets by 4100%.\n\nHe was chief of staff of AFIP until June 2011.\n\nResnick Brenner was a key figure in the AFIP at the time of the Ciccone scandal. On October 19, 2010, the AFIP approved of the lifting of the bankruptcy of Argentina's largest printing firm, Ciccone Calcográfica, and agreed on a payment plan that would permit the firm to resume printing. It was Resnick Brenner who recommended that Ciccone Calcográfica be given a discount on its tax liabilities and who allegedly agreed to a payment plan that benefited Ciccone Calcográfica after it filed for bankruptcy in 2010. \"La Nación\" later determined, based on telephone records, that Resnick Brenner had signed two opinions both of which supported the provision of funds for a payment plan for Ciccone.\n\nAt least two government officials challenged Resnick Brenner's action on behalf of Ciccone Calcográfica. The Director of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Economy, José Guillermo Capdevila, challenged Resnick Brenner and reportedly got into trouble with the AFIP as a result. On November 9, 2010, in defiance of Capdevila, Boudou signed the recommendation to help Ciccone. The next day, Resnick Brenner asked the AFIP's legal department to approve the removal of capital.\n\nExperts stated in August 2012 that Resnick Brenner was more criminally responsible than the director of AFIP, Ricardo Echegaray, because it was he who had acted to remove Ciccone Calcográfica's capital debt in November 2010, which was not a decision that he had any power to make.\n\nIt was reported on May 31, 2014, that on July 17, 2014, Alejandro Vandenbroele and Resnick Brenner would have to appear in court. On June 12, 2014, Resnick Brenner was questioned by Judge Ariel Lijo. He presented Lijo with a written statement in which he declared that Amado Boudou, during his tenure as Minister of Economy, had sent his chief adviser, César Guido Forcieri, and his friend José María Nuñez Carmona to meet with Resnick Brenner to inquire about the procedure for granting Ciccone Calcográfica a payment plan. Resnick Brenner said that he did not remember the date of the meeting. Clarin stated that Resnick Brenner's statement “seriously complicate[d]” matters for Boudou, who had sought to distance himself from the controversy surrounding lifting of the bankruptcy of Ciccone Calcográfica. At his June 12 appearance before Lijo, Resnick Brenner asked the judge to dismiss him from the case.\n\nResnick Brenner was indicted by Lijo on June 27, 2014.\n\nIn 2014, Federal prosecutor Jorge Di Lello called for Resnick Brenner to be summoned for questioning. On February 19, 2015, Judges Jorge Ballestero, Eduardo Farah, and Eduardo Freiler of the Federal Criminal Appeals Court confirmed Judge Lijo's indictments of Boudou, Núñez Carmona, Alejandro Vandenbroele, Nicolás Ciccone, Resnick Brenner, and Forcieri.\n\nAfter the Boudougate scandal broke in 2012, according to one source, Brenner was not fired from the AFIP but “ended up being rewarded,” as Hugo Alconada Moon, a columnist for \"La Nación\" and author of a book about Boudougate, stated. Resnick Brenner was put in charge of AFIP in the province of Salta, where he lives. Instead of living in a rented house or apartment, “as is the custom for those officials who are transferred to Salta from other provinces or from the federal capital,” Resnick Brenner was installed at the International Hotel Alejandro I, the province's most exclusive hotel. In August 2014, FM News reported that Resnick Brenner was living at the hotel, a five-star establishment on Belgrano Square in the center of Salta. A week later, Resnick Brenner confirmed that he was living at the hotel but said that he was paying a cheaper rate than people who stayed at the hotel for just a few nights.\n\nIn addition to his address in Salta, Resnick Brenner continued to maintain his residences at Club de Campo Pueyrredón and on calle Carlos Pellegrini in Buenos Aires. In addition, AFIP supplied him with a car and chauffeur. Asked about rumors that he was earning 75,000 pesos a month, Resnick Brenner said it was “slander.”\n\nResnick Brenner's activities in Salta have led to controversy. “From the moment Resnick Brenner took office in Salta,” reports one source, he “launched a well-oiled machinery to squeeze entrepreneurs and farmers,” and began collecting “millions in bribes,” mostly in the vicinity of Oran, where officials of the Federal Court No. 2, located in that town, are suspected of being complicit in his activities. The shakedown process allegedly involves the leveling of false accusations of operational irregularities, such as the use of slave labor, and the issuing of threats of severe sanctions that can only be lifted through the payment of bribes. Resnick Brenner and his cohorts have reportedly “demanded bribes ranging from one million to 10 million pesos, depending on the size of the business or farm.” Some businessmen ended up in prison for several days for resisting Resnick Brenner's extortion efforts.\n\nAmong other activities, Resnick Brenner ordered a raid on a 16,000-hectare farm in the department of Oran, and issued a report maintaining that 157 employees had been found to be working in deplorable conditions. In one case in which he claimed to have uncovered the use of slave labor, as well as “a 12-year-old working in very poor condition and people who did not eat for three days,” Resnick Brenner refused to identify the employers in question, purportedly for reasons of “tax secrecy.”\n\nAs of 2014, Resnick Brenner, the former chief of staff of the Argentinian tax agency, was facing “two judgments for unpaid taxes in the province of Buenos Aires.”\n"}
{"id": "43087289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43087289", "title": "Ramón Massó Tarruella", "text": "Ramón Massó Tarruella\n\nRamón Massó Tarruella (1928 - 2017) was a Spanish media and communications expert and a former Carlist politician.\n\nRamón Massó Tarruella was born to an established, much branched and well-to-do Catalan bourgeoisie family. His grandfather, Ramón Massó Marcer, originated from the small seaside town of Sant Pere de Ribes. In 1885, during rapid expansion of the Catalan clothing manufacturing, he moved to Barcelona to set up his own business; he started a company specializing in dyes for the textile industry (his cousin, Ramón Oliveras Massó, became an academic and taught chemistry in the Barcelona-based Escuela de Ingenieros Industriales until 1936). His son, Juan Massó Soler, entered the family business in 1912 and developed it into a successful chemical company. Member of many Catalan commercial and trade institutions, he married Nuria Tarruella Riu.\n\nThe couple had 8 children, 3 sons (José Luis, Ramón, Juan Antonio) and 5 daughters (Montserrat, Isabel, Maria Amelia, Pilar and Nuria), all raised in a profoundly Catholic and traditional ambience. In the 1950s José Luis and Juan Antonio got engaged in the family company and later turned it into Comercial Química Massó Sociedad Anónima, which expanded into new market sectors and remains active until today. In the early 1960s Juan Antonio left the family enterprise and commenced studying canon law, ordained as a priest in 1965; following his transfer to Australia he later became head (Regional Vicar) of Opus Dei there, the position retained until his death.\n\nAs a child Ramón together with his family fled Barcelona, the city which fell under the anarchist control during the first months of the Civil War. The family settled in San Sebastián in the nationalist zone. The Massó boys joined Pelayos, the Carlist organization for older children animated mostly by the Catalan emigrees, but terminated their engagement following of the Carlist and Falangist juvenile organizations; as a kid Massó took part in the 1937 anti-unification demonstrations, allegedly shouting \"death to Franco\" and \"death to Falange\". Following the end of hostilities the family returned to Barcelona, where Ramón together with his brothers became a teenage member of the Catalan Opus Dei.\n\nIn late 1940s Massó moved to Madrid studying Filosofia y Letras to graduate in Philosophy (later he became also Técnico en Publicidad). During his university years he joined Agrupación de Estudiantes Tradicionalistas, a technically illegal though tolerated Carlist student organization. Enraged by increasing marginalization of Carlism within the political realm of the regime he developed his childish anti-Falangist sentiments into a firm anti-Francoist outlook. Engaged in leafleting campaigns and skirmishes against the official organization, in 1954 Massó (recommended by the Carlist political leader Manuel Fal Conde) grew to the position of Delegado Nacional of AET.\n\nMassó was increasingly disappointed by the perceived somnolent atmosphere of the movement's circulos, with the older generation trapped in recollections of the long gone days of glory. Highly emotional semi-clandestine 1956 attempts to dissuade the Carlist claimant from a would-be dynastical union with the \"Alfonsinos\" and to inspire him towards a decisive policy proved unsuccessful. The Massó-led \"aetistas\", upset with the diffident Don Javier, decided to focus on his eldest son Carlos Hugo, with whom the group found common ground during his brief stay in Madrid en route to Portugal in 1955.\nCarlos Hugo, at that time a French citizen completing PhD in economics in Oxford, threw himself into the Spanish politics in liaison with Massó and his team. Following half a year spent quietly in Bilbao on improving his castellano and learning Spanish politics (his key tutor Massó just commenced teaching at the local Colegio Gaztelueta), the prince made a public debut during the annual Carlist amassment at Montejurra in May 1957. The entry, repeatedly rehearsed, meticulously planned and pre-agreed with the Carlist leadership, turned out to be a masterpiece of public appearance. The unexpected prince's presentation generated exploding enthusiasm of the crowd, excited by youth, optimism and royal firmness of the speaker (though the lecture contained only one reference to God and included phrases sounding like an offer to Franco). Massó and his team ensured that \"La Proclama de Montejurra\" gets propagated in the Carlist circulos across Spain. In 1958 Carlos Hugo's speech – again carefully crafted by the prince, Massó and the team – called for profound change, put social issues on the forefront and contained a positive reference to Franco. During the following years the snowballing attendance at Montejurra transformed it from a Carlist-flavored local \"Via Crucis\" to the largest (save official, religious and football gatherings) public amassment in Francoist Spain. \n\nThe emergence of Carlos Hugo and the \"hugocarlistas\" coincided with the overall change in the Carlist strategy towards Francoism; in 1955 the intransigent Fal Conde was replaced as the movement's leader by a collective governing body, which initiated a new collaborative policy. Tactically Massó also opted for limited collaboration with Francoism (which cost him AET leadership in 1957), judging that gaining room for action is vital for his further aims. However, while the new Carlist leader José María Valiente sincerely hoped for some sort of prudent partnership between Francoism and Carlism, Massó aimed at dismantling the regime from within. Moreover, while Valiente oriented himself towards the army and bureaucracy, the hugocarlistas approached the hardcore syndicalist Falange sector, likewise promoting new social order and disdainful towards greedy capitalism.\n\nThe collaborative approach appeared to work: in the early 1960s the Carlists were granted a few media and organizational concessions. The \"hugocarlistas\" benefited the most, opening a number of new periodicals turned into their ideological tribunes (mostly \"Azada y asta\" and \"Montejurra\"), galvanizing the chain of Círculos Culturales Vázquez de Mella and launching their own workers' organization, MOT, all of them becoming later dissemination channels of their political vision.\n\nAs Carlos Hugo moved to Madrid he organized the young collaborators, dubbed \"camarilla\" and headed by Massó, into his Secretaría Política. The partnership of the old and the young leaders seemed smooth, though some of the former started suspecting the latter of dangerously Leftist ideas. Backed by the aging claimant the \"hugocarlistas\" assumed more powers as the newly established Junta de Gobierno diluted the authority of Valiente. Massó outplayed the chief opponent, José Luis Zamanillo, marginalized him in 1962–1963 and finally got him expelled early 1964. From this moment on the \"hugocarlistas\" spelled out their vision of Carlism more openly; the same year they published \"Esquema doctrinal\", a lecture which avoided open challenge to Francoism and presented a monarchist corporative political organization combined with anti-capitalist and democratic principles. During the 1965 Montejurra the \"hugocarlistas\" voiced their praise of socialism and even Marxism at unprecedented levels.\n\nIt is not clear whether Massó intended to instaurate the Carlist dynasty by means of new social mobilization or he tried to promote profound transformation using Carlos Hugo as an agent of change; anyway, the two threads became intertwined. The immediate political objective of Massó was to prevent the Alfonsist restoration. The young Carlists dogged the \"juanista niño\", boycotting or jeering Juan Carlos; they publicly humiliated the royal prince and his wife a few times. At the same time, Massó engineered a campaign to promote Carlos Hugo across the country. The operation revealed much understanding of the media role in the consumer society, as it exploited common tabloid threads and kept feeding the press with new scoops (the prince as a miner in Asturias, at a parachute course, at Sanfermines) and taking advantage of charm and youth of the prince's three sisters. The efforts proved fairly successful, as in the tightly censured media the Borbon-Parmas gained sort of nationwide positive recognition.\n\nThe greatest scoop came in 1964, when Carlos Hugo married princess Irene of the Netherlands. At this point, however, the regime propaganda machine was firmly ordered to backtrack. Franco, though personally delighted that the Dutch royal family (one of the harshest critics of his regime) was publicly humiliated by a Spanish royal hopeful, grew increasingly anxious that the popularity of Carlos Hugo might get him cornered when it comes to an inescapable dynastical decision. Despite wide TV coverage across Western Europe the Spanish media played down the event, which marked hard limits of Massó's strategy and got him bitterly disappointed.\n\nIn mid-1960s Massó realized that his strategy had failed; moreover, he realized that Leftist phraseology (with \"socialismo\" and \"autogestión\" most prominent catchwords) had divided and debilitated Carlism. In 1965 he loosened his ties with Carlos Hugo by moving from Madrid to Pamplona, where he commenced teaching at the Opus Dei university. As opposition against his influence mounted from the orthodox Traditionalist camp of Valiente and from the militantly Leftist group of José de Zavala, in 1966 Massó ceased as head of Secretaría Política; in 1967 he and some of his collaborators handed their resignations and withdrew from politics. He remained loosely related to Carlism, e.g. shortly before death taking part in historical conference,\n\nIn late 1960s Massó settled in Pamplona, working as an academic teacher at Instituto de Estudios Superiores de la Empresa (IESE), a prestigious business school founded by Opus Dei back in 1958. It was there that he completed the Alta Dirección curriculum himself, a holistic leadership program offered to top corporate managers. Finally disillusioned with Opus Dei and with its role during the process of installing Juan Carlos as the future king of Spain, Massó broke with the organization and moved to Barcelona. In his native city he joined Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona (UAB), where he became \"catedratico\" in Departamento de publicidad at the Facultad de Ciencias de la Información.\n\nMassó's small booklet \"Estrategia para unas extrañas elecciones\" (1977) earned him local media recognition and triggered co-operation with \"La Vanguardia\"; he became its key politics and public affairs commentator (until 1984). Massó experienced most of the Spanish transition to democracy not as a protagonist but as a witness, periodically having a regular column in the Sunday issue. As a press pundit he was careful to remain within the limits of political science and styled himself as an unbiased scholarly observer, though his hostility to Francoism and support for reforms remained evident. In general opposed to sectarian politics, he occasionally kept referring to Lenin as a political authority. His commentary suggested also that Massó sort of put up with the royal function of Juan Carlos and with his role in the Spanish transition. In late 1970s together with his former Carlist collaborator José Antonio Parilla he engaged in the Nono Art publishing house and co-ordinated work on a popular series \"Breu História de Catalunya\" (1979–81).\n\nIn mid-1970s Massó co-founded Alas, one of the first media agencies in Spain and became head of its Barcelona branch. About the same time he launched the term \"politing\", intended as a merger of \"politics\" and \"marketing\" and meant as a specialized knowledge (if not a science itself) on the crossroads of social sciences, public relations and politics. His work \"Introducción al “politing”. Lanzamiento de un aspirante\" (1976), apart from gaining official prizes (Premio Markedit, Premio Instituto Nacional de Publicidad), generated also significant interest among the academics, politicians and commentators. The book was formatted as a systematic theoretical lecture on the basics of political marketing, though it contained many explicit and implicit references to the 1957–1967 political experiences of the author. Relative success of launching Carlos Hugo became one of Masso's key credentials as a scholar in public relations and as a businessman running commercial (he claims authorship of La Caixa brand) and social (e.g. cancer awareness) media campaigns. He followed with another book, \"De la magia a la artesanía: el politing del cambio español\" (1980), becoming a nationwide recognised scholar and giving courses organised by Sociedad Española de Anunciantes, Instituto Nacional de Publicidad or Escuela Oficial de Radio y Television.\n\nIn the 1990s Massó switched his focus to media with \"El exito de la cultura light: Anuncios y noticias\" (1993) and \"Noticias frente a hechos: Entender la realidad despues de leer los periodicos\" (1997). Later on he broadened his interest into the wider realm of public communication, focusing on combined multidimensional holistic forms and channels of information exchange named \"integral communication\". He co-founded the Barcelona-based Institut de Comunicació Integral, an independent college specializing in marketing, brand communications and public relations, and became its president. ICOMI turned out to be a commercial (though not necessarily scientific) success and became a fashionable educational institute (incorporated into Universidad Abad Oliva CEU in 2003). During the last decade Massó published successive books on culture, communications and politics: \"Otro rey para España: crónica del lanzamiento y fracaso de Carlos Hugo\" (2004), \"Los últimos días de la Telecracia\" (with Enrique Nebot, 2009), \"Nacimiento y muerte de las marcas\" (with Joaquín García-Lavernia Gil, 2010), \"Navegando por el cachondeo de la historia\" (2012) and even a children's book, \"La segunda vida de Don Jos Kintana\" (1999). He maintaied Twitter and Facebook accounts, scarcely active during last years of his life.\n\nIn the 1990s, looking back on his political past, Massó admitted defeat at the hands of a competitive group of Machiavellian players coming from the same Opus Dei hotbed (especially López Rodó), who outplayed him by dismantling Francoism with technocratic strategy and with Juan Carlos as a better marketed and better designed version of Carlos Hugo. He denied charges that he had implanted Marxism within the Carlist realm; he rather pointed to the Juan Vázquez de Mella heritage, based on \"sociedalismo\" and the concept of .\nIn historiography Massó remains a rather divisive and ambiguous figure, with little agreement as to his role and intentions. Some historians (Payne, Bartyzel) maintain that he unleashed forces which either destroyed Carlism or turned it into its own antinomy. Some historians (Clemente, Martorell Pérez) claim that he helped to safeguard Carlist identity or at least contributed to emphasizing genuine Carlism and sidetracking its accidental threads. Some historians (MacClancy, Caspistegui Gorasurreta) suggest that he commenced the process of redirecting Carlism from traditional and orthodox path to a new formula. Some historians (Perez-Nievas) do not consider Massó worth mentioning and present de Zavala as the leader of the group.\n\nAccording to one group of studies (Martorell Pérez, MacClancy) Massó was primarily motivated by dynastical objectives, according to another (Clemente) he was not a monarchist at all. There are scholars (Bartyzel) who consider him a radical Leftist approximate to Marxism, there are others (Clemente) who consider him a \"neocapitalist technocrat\". Certain works (Martorell Pérez, in line with Masso's own later narration) present Carlos Hugo as a politician invented and created by Massó, certain works (Clemente) present Massó as Carlos Hugo's sidekick, useful at one political phase and to be replaced at the following one. Massó's departure from politics is explained by failure of his policy (Martorell Pérez), by Carlos Hugo's decision to replace him (Clemente), by his alleged falling in love with one of Carlos Hugo's sisters (Fraga), by pressure from Opus Dei (Lavardín), by combined efforts of enemies from the Right like Valiente and from the Left like de Zavala (Pérez Madrigal) or by pure greed (Zabala).\n\nOne thing most historians agree on is that Massó proved instrumental in dismantling Traditionalist Carlism (though they do not agree whether a non-Traditionalist Carlism can actually exist). None of the currently operating Carlist grouplets admits deference to Massó. Traditionalists (carloctavistas, sixtinos, ) tend to view him as a turncoat, the progressives (Partido Carlista, javierocarlistas) tend to view him as merely a former .\n\nBefore death he dedicated his future corpse to scientific research, and hence there was no funeral arranged and there is no grave. His death was acknowledged on few websites related to Partido Carlista, though not by major Spanish media.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3094178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3094178", "title": "Richard Currie", "text": "Richard Currie\n\nRichard James Currie was born in 1937 in Saint John, New Brunswick, and is a notable Canadian businessman.\n\nHe entered the University of New Brunswick in 1955 on a Beaverbrook Scholarship and was elected president of the first-year class. He later received a Bachelor of Engineering in Chemistry degree from the Technical University of Nova Scotia in 1960. He worked as an engineer until 1968, when he entered Harvard University to earn a Masters of Business Administration degree in 1970.\n\nIn 1960, he joined Atlantic Sugar Refineries as a Process Engineer and was a Refining Superintendent from 1963 to 1968. After graduating from Harvard in 1970, he became a Senior Associate at McKinsey & Co., a management consultant firm based in New York City.\n\nIn 1972, he joined Loblaws as a Vice-President, becoming Executive Vice-President in 1974, and President in 1976. Loblaws increased its market share over 350 times in 25 years while under his control, reaching $14 billion before he stepped down on December 31, 2000. Through this, it became the largest private sector employer in Canada.\n\nIn 1996, he was appointed President of Loblaws parent company, George Weston Ltd., where he increased the share price from $16 to $123. In 2002 he stepped down from Weston and was appointed Chairman of BCE Inc. on April 24 of that year.\n\nHe, along with Lynton Wilson, Anthony S. Fell, James Fleck, Hal Jackman and John McArthur, helped establish a chair in Canadian business history at the Joseph L. Rotman School of Management, which is the first chair of its kind in Canada. Worth $3 million, it will help fund courses and research related to the progress of the commerce industry in Canada, along with the legal, economic and political events that impacted its history.\n\nHe was the Chairman of BCE Inc. and Bell Canada from 2002 to 2009 and currently sits on the board of directors of CAE, and Staples, Inc. and is also a Trustee of The Art Gallery of Ontario and a Director of Historical Foundation of Canada. Along with these titles, he is also Chairman of the Board of Telesat and was a Director of Imperial Oil Limited, and a member of the International Advisory Boards of RJR Nabisco and Jacobs Suchard.\n\nOn May 24, 2003, he was appointed Chancellor of the University of New Brunswick by the lieutenant-governor in council, at UNB's 174th Encaenia. His duties are to serve as the honorary head of UNB and also as a member of its Board of Governors.\n\nIn 2004, he established the Blake-Kirkpatrick Scholarships (now the Currie Scholarship) in memory of his two grandmothers: Ida Mae Blake and Jannet Kirkpatrick.\n\nOn October 20, 2005, the University of New Brunswick established a Chair in Nanotechnology in his honour. This is the first Chair in Nanotechnology in Canada.\n\nIn Fall 2011 work was completed on the Richard J. Currie Center, a five-storey, 139,000-square-foot athletics and gymnasium complex, named in honor of Currie, who was also the primary donor. Currie donated over $20 million toward the construction of the building, the largest single donation a New Brunswick university has ever received.\n\n"}
{"id": "39981907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39981907", "title": "Saeid Esmaeilzadeh", "text": "Saeid Esmaeilzadeh\n\nSaeid Esmaeilzadeh, born 1974, is a serial entrepreneur, the Co-Founder of the business Group, Serendipity Group and adjunct professor in Inorganic Chemistry, at Stockholm University. He was on the board member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences’ Business Executives Council during 2102-20142012. and since March 2015, Saeid Esmaeilzadeh is a member of the Swedish Government's reference group of Entrepreneurs.\n\nSaeid Esmaeilzadeh was born in Tehran and moved to Stockholm, Sweden with his family at the age of 8, living in the suburb of Husby northwest of the city. His younger sister is neuroscientist and entrepreneur Mouna Esmaeilzadeh. Esmaeilzadeh started his academic career at Stockholm University where he studied Chemistry and History of Religion, before beginning graduate studies at the age of 21. In 2000 he defended his PhD thesis: Crystal Chemistry of Manganese Tantalum Oxides. In 2002 Esmaeilzadeh became Sweden’s youngest associate professor at the age of 28, at the same university.\n\nAfter his PhD Esmaeilzadeh worked on a project that set out to study crystals based on silicon nitride. In the experiment, silicon nitride was smelted with additives at high temperatures and was then allowed to cool slowly so that crystals formed in the 1,500 to 2,000 degrees Celsius range. One night something unexpected happened when the cooling system of the furnace malfunctioned, shutting the furnace down and leading the melt to rapidly solidify. This resulted in a small yellowish transparent piece of glass instead of crystals. He gradually discovered that he had created a completely new material. He had managed to find a way to produce nitride-based glass materials with high nitrogen content. It became apparent that the material had high chemical flexibility and that it easily combined with other substances such as metals, while being much harder and having higher thermal resistance. It also became apparent that it had interesting magnetic properties as well as a refractive index nearly as high as that of diamonds. Saeid Esmaeilzadeh applied for a patent for the new glass material and brought on childhood friend and business partner Ashkan Pouya to develop what would ultimately become the materials firm Diamorph AB.\n\nIn 2008, Esmaeilzadeh − together with his colleague Ashkan Pouya − published a report by the name of “Phantom Innovation - A Launching Pad for Innovation Processes” that researches and describes the non-linear nature of innovative processes. In this report the expression “phantom innovation” was coined. This term describes the phenomenon that an idea or technical solution at its conception often differs significantly from what ultimately becomes the final innovation that is brought to market. In the report, the pair came to the conclusion that the initial innovation is often changed on the way to commercialization (“the creative dance”) and in many cases is introduced to a different market or fulfills a different need than that which is originally envisaged.\n\nThat same year Saeid and Ashkan both won the prize for the \"Best Student Paper\" at the ISPIM (The International Society for Professional Innovation Management) Symposium in Singapore.\n\nTogether, Esmaeilzadeh − with his background in research − and Pouya − with his background in business − founded Serendipity innovations in 2004. Esmaeilzadeh is the firm’s CEO, and has participated in and founded a number of innovative companies based on leading academic research. In all, the two have founded over 15 companies within the fields of medical device, biotechnology, advanced materials, clean tech and information technology. These companies include NASDAQ OMX-listed Episurf Medical, a medical technology company that designs and manufactures individually customized implants for cartilage damage in joints, Diamorph, AB an advanced materials company, and OrganoClick a clean technology-company which develops environmentally friendly chemicals for treatment of wood and textiles. OrganoClick has among other awards, received the \"Environmental Innovation of the year\" in 2008 and was in 2010 admitted to \"WWF Climate Solver Programme \". Xbrane Biopharma AB is a biopharmaceutical company specialized in high demand complex generics. The company has world leading expertise in developing biogenerics for injectable controlled release drugs and proprietary high-yield protein expression technology for the development of biosimilars.\n\nEsmaeilzadeh was awarded the 2008 Chemistry Technology Prize (Swedish: Kemiteknikpris), 1 kg of silver, from Sveriges Kemiingenjörers Riksförening. He was awarded the prize for his work with materials development.\n\nIn 2010 Esmaeilzadeh was awarded, together with Ashkan Pouya, the H.M King Carl XVI Gustaf \"Innovative Pioneer of the Year\" award (Swedish: Årets Nybyggare Pionjär). He was awarded the prize for the following reasons: \"Ashkan Pouya and Saeid Esmaeilzadeh began with two empty hands, building up an organization with 8 constituent companies that all have products and services with world-leading technology. They have developed a business model that has in recent years generated returns much greater than the industry average, during a period characterized by the largest economic and stock market downturn in 50 years. With great commitment and dedication, these two young entrepreneurs have managed to win acceptance for their business model among leading researchers. Their vision is grand: to be among the largest listed companies in Sweden in 10 years.\"\n\nIn 2011 Esmaeilzadeh won \"\" for the following reasons: \"Sweden's youngest associate professor. One of 50 Swedes who are going to change the world. Saeid Esmaeilzadeh has received significant praise, awards and distinctions for his research and for his work as an entrepreneur.\"\n"}
{"id": "18568496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18568496", "title": "Samuel Mathiassen Føyn", "text": "Samuel Mathiassen Føyn\n\nSamuel Mathiassen Føyn (2 November 1786 – 9 August 1854) was a Norwegian ship-owner and politician.\n\nHe was elected to the Norwegian Parliament in 1830, 1842 and 1848, representing the constituency of Tønsberg. He worked as a ship-owner, merchant and farmer in that city.\n"}
{"id": "49883195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49883195", "title": "Seeding (computing)", "text": "Seeding (computing)\n\nIn computing and specifically peer-to-peer file sharing, seeding is the uploading of already downloaded content for others to download from. A peer, a computer that is connected to the network, becomes a seed when having acquired the entire set of data it tries to download. This data consists out of small parts so that seeds can effectively share their content with other peers, handing out the missing pieces. A peer deliberately chooses to become a seed by leaving the upload task active when content is downloaded. This means that there should be motivation to seed. The opposite of a seed is a leech, a peer that downloads more than they upload.\n\nSeeding is a practice within peer-to-peer file sharing, a content distribution model that connects computers with the use of a peer-to-peer (P2P) software program in order to share desired content. An example of such a peer-to-peer software program is BitTorrent. Peer-to-peer file sharing is different from the client-server model, where content is directly distributed from its server to a client. To make peer-to-peer file sharing function effectively, content is divided into parts of 256 kilobyte (KB). This segmented downloading makes the parts that peers miss be allocated by seeds. It also makes downloads go faster, as content can be exchanged between peers. All peers (including seeds) sharing the same content are called a swarm.\n\nData shared via peer-to-peer file sharing contains shared file content, computing cycles and disk storage, among other resources.\n\nIn peer-to-peer file sharing, the strength of a swarm depends on user behaviour, as peers ideally upload more than they download. This is done by seeding, and there are different motivations to do this. There are two popular motivations to seed, of which one is the reputation-based incentive mechanism and the other is the tit for tat mechanism. As the name reveals, the former is based on the reputation of a peer, meaning that those peers who have a good reputation will get a better treatment from the uploader. The tit for tat mechanism prevents peers from downloading content if they do not upload to the peers they download from. The latter forces a peer to upload.\n\nAlthough seeding is only a social norm, some scholars see the practice of uploading parts of the data bulk to others as a duty, claiming that “downloaders are forced to reward uploads in order to compensate for their resource consumption and encourage further altruistic behaviour.” Other scholars are milder and believe that a group of highly motivated seeders could already provide a notion of fairness by scheduling when to seed, uploading more effectively.\n\nLeechers, peers that download more than they upload, are a threat to peer-to-peer file sharing and the practice of seeding. Where the goal of seeding is to upload more than to download, thus contributing to the sharing of content, leechers stop uploading as soon as their download is finished. What this means is that seeders must upload more parts of the data bulk in order to guarantee a healthy download. Leeching is also referred to as free-riding, temporal downloading users that, by not seeding, do not support the distribution of content.\n\nAlthough leeching is a threat to peer-to-peer sharing and an opposite of seeding, it is not regarded as an immediate problem. With downloads rising, upload is still guaranteed, though few contributors in the system account for most services.\n\nResearch sees opportunities for seeding as a practice that caters contribution within peer-to-peer file sharing and the distribution of content in the digital world in general. A term for this is economic traffic management (ETM), which is concerned with traffic management solutions to involve all peers, both seeder and leecher. It is ETM’s goal to unite peers that have different objectives and to make the sharing of content with peer-to-peer file sharing more efficient. Locality awareness is raised as the most promising concepts by scholars. This entails stimulating peers to seed downloads in their neighbourhood, which speeds up the upload speed and saves inter-domain traffic over the Internet.\nOther opportunities that have arisen out of research are to schedule seeding and use models that reduce the power consumption of seeding computers.\n\nPeer-to-peer file sharing and, with that, seeding, is known as a platform for illegal content. With the sharing being done between peers all over the world, there is no supervision. Control over illegal or manipulated content is therefore difficult. Seeding is a part of this and a peer can therefore be involved in helping other peers download illegal content.\n\nOn the other hand there are also examples of mainstream applications that use peer-to-peer file sharing. Skype and other real-time communication systems are examples.\n\n"}
{"id": "37446174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37446174", "title": "Shila Amzah", "text": "Shila Amzah\n\nNurShahila binti Amir Amzah (born 13 August 1990), known as Shila Amzah is a Malaysian singer-songwriter. One of the world's leading contemporary female recording artists in Asia, Shila is the first Malay artist to break through the Chinese music market.\n\nBorn and raised in Kuala Lumpur, she began going to recording studios at the age of 4 with her father and recorded a pop studio album five years later. With the help of a famous Malaysian record producer, in 2005 Shila released her second pop studio album, \"Sha-Hila\". Her single \"Patah Seribu\" (2011) received Pop Song of the Year and Song of the Year at the 19th Malaysian Music Awards.\n\nShe continued her singing career by breaking out to Shanghai, China and eventually won the \"Asian Wave\". As a result, Shila received the Kembara Award (International Music Breakthrough Award) from Malaysian Music Awards making Shila the youngest Kembara Award honoree. Afterwards, Shila continued her singing career in mandopop industry by breaking out to Hong Kong in 2015 by releasing some new singles, doing an international press conference and establishing her second record label and global management company, Shilala (HK) Limited. Her success on international stages has gained her honorific titles such as Asia's Sweetheart, Princess of Music, and National Treasure of Malaysia.\n\nShila was the first runner-up of \"Bintang Kecil RTM\" in 2000, first runner-up of \"One in a Million\" (season 2), winner of \"Asia New Singer Competition\" in 2008, second runner-up of \"I Am a Singer\" (season 2) in 2014, and first runner-up of \"Anugerah Juara Lagu\" in 2011 and 2015. Before the \"Asian Wave\", she performed a duet with Miley Cyrus called \"The Best of Both Worlds\" to promote Hannah Montana in Malaysia. In 2013, Shila was the first Malay and Malaysian artist to be nominated at the World Music Awards after winning \"Asian Wave\" as well being the first and only Malay artist to be invited to the Global Chinese Music Awards (GCMA).\n\nShe is the first and only Malay artist to have success in Chinese-speaking countries and Chinese record charts with her Sina Weibo account having more than 2.3 million followers. She was listed in the \"Forbes\"' 30 Under 30 Asia (2018), recognizing young leaders, entrepreneurs and game changers from across Asia under Entertainment and Sports category.\n\nShila used the stage name \"NurShahila\" name when she was a child. In 2004, she changed her name to Sha-Hila as her record company, EMI, wanted her name to be shorter. When she joined the \"One in a Million\" singing contest she needed to make her name even shorter. The organiser of \"One in a Million\" (Season 2) truncated her name to just Shila. After coming in as the first runner-up of \"One in A Million\" (season 2), she was called \"Shila OIAM\". She didn't like the name, so she added \"Amzah\" to her stage name, as her father's name is Amir Amzah. In Chinese-speaking countries, Shila's name is 茜拉 (Xila).\n\nNurShahila binti Amir Amzah was born on 13 August 1990, in Setapak, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Her father, Amir Amzah Salleh, who used the stage name ND Lala, was a recording artist in the 1980s and her mother, Fauziah Sarman, was an actress. She comes from a musically inclined family: her younger sister, NurSyuhada, whose stage name is Syada Amzah, is also a performer. She attended Sekolah Menengah Kebangsaan Setapak Indah, Kuala Lumpur.\n\nBefore Shila made her debut appearance as a child, her father struggled to get her a chance to showcase her singing. At that time, there were no recording companies that wanted to sign children as recording artists as they did not want to take the risk. So her father used his own money to produce her first album. In 2000, Shila's debut album, Terima Kasih Guru that was launched in the presence of Tun Dr. Siti Hasmah, wife of Malaysia's fourth Prime Minister, Tun Dr. Mahathir. She later signed a contract with EMI. With EMI, she released the album \"Sha-Hila\" with the hit song \"Yang Teristimewa\".\n\nAfter her contract with EMI ended in 2007, she joined \"One in a Million\" (Season 2) and emerged as first runner-up of the competition. The nickname \"Shila\" was given by the organizers of \"One in a Million\" as her SMS voting code and name during the singing competition. On the night of the Grand Finale of \"One in a Million\" (season 2), Shila was assigned to sing a new song called \"Memori Tercipta\" (Memories Created). She lost to Norayu Damit, but both of them were given recording contracts from Monkey Bone Records.\n\nThroughout the competition, Shila sang:\n\nShe produced the album \"Bebaskan \"(Set It Free) during her stint with Monkey Bone Records. The album was launched in 2009. With 12 songs, featuring the works of Malaysian composers such as Aubrey Suwito, Audi Mok, Kieran Kuek and Mode, as well as Australian composer Jamie Huber.\n\n\"3 Suara\" (English: 3 Voices) is a collaborative album by Malaysian singers Jaclyn Victor, Ning Baizura and Shila Amzah. The album was released on 6 January 2011, through Euphoric Pte. Limited. One of Shila's songs was \"Patah Seribu\". The song appeared on many television shows and received a lot of radio airtime. The song was nominated at the Malaysian Music Awards for Best Female Vocal Performance and Most Popular Regional Song and won Pop Song of the Year and Song of the Year. The song was released as a single on iTunes on 20 July 2012 by Urustabil and was later added as a bonus track to her fifth studio album, \"Shila Amzah\", released by Shila Amzah Entertainment Berhad.\n\nIn September 2012, she was invited to join the inaugural competition of \"Asian Wave\", a Chinese reality singing talent show held in Shanghai, China, after her father, ND Lala submitted her videos singing. On 20 September 2012, Shila became the champion. It was at this point that she started to focus on her career in China. Shila had the most online votes among all the contestants. She sang three songs: \"Gemilang\" by Jaclyn Victor, \"Grenade\" by Bruno Mars, and \"Zheng Fu\" by Na Ying. She also sang \"Forever Love\" by Wang Leehom and \"Set Fire to the Rain\" by Adele in one of the preliminary rounds. The panel of 10 judges-comprising the region's top stars like Malaysia's Eric Moo, Hong Kong's Hacken Lee, China's Sun Nan, Taiwan's Phil Chang and Jerry Huang-gave her a standing ovation, while Chinese composer Gao Xiaosong praised her by saying, \"You gave me goose bumps. You broke my heart.\" She was signed to a 6-year recording contract with Shanghai Media Group and received 5 Million MYR.\n\n\nIn 2013 she was nominated for the Nickelodeon Kid's Choice Awards for Favourite Asian Act with PSY (South Korea), Han Geng (China), and Sarah Geronimo from the Philippines. \"Harian Metro\" reported on 12 March 2013, that Shila has set up her own record company by the name of Shila Amzah Entertainment Berhad.\n\nIn July 2013, Shanghai Media Group released \"A Moment Like This\", Shila's debut Chinese single in China. This single was the theme song for the inaugural competition of \"Chinese Idol\". She was invited to perform this song live during the grand finale of the show.\n\nAt the end of 2013, Shila released her fifth studio album, \"Shila Amzah\" released under Shila Amzah Entertainment and distributed by Warner Music Malaysia. All songs and lyrics of the album was fully composed by Shila with the guidance of Helen Yap. The album consisted of seven songs including two bonus tracks. The album preview was held at Red Box Plus, Pavilion, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on 5 July 2013. A further showcase of the album was held at Penthouse, The Icon, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on 10 October 2013. The album were produced by Shila, Helen Yap, and Aubrey Suwito, and the sound engineers were Aubrey Suwito, Zairi Ariffin, Yusalman Azua, Hadie Pranoto, Amir Sulaiman and Greg Henderson. The album received nominations from the 21st Malaysian Music Awards which is Album of the Year and Engineered Album of the Year. The songs in the album were her first to be nominated at the World Music Awards.The self-titled album, \"Shila Amzah\" was released on digital and streaming platforms on 10 December 2013. In December 2013, Shila released a video of \"Masih Aku Cinta\". This music video was based on her love story when she broke up with Sharnaaz Ahmad, a Malaysian actor after a controversy involving Sharnaaz Ahmad with Shila's father.\n\n\"The Star\" reported on 27 September 2012, that she was chosen to be the opening act for a series of concerts in Beijing by Malaysian singer-composer Eric Moo, starting 17 November. Shila said that she knew him because \"he was one of the judges during the competition and his invitation is a huge honor for me\". She gave her agreement when he courted her to be part of his opening act. The Eric Moo–Shila Amzah Love Hurricane Concert was eventually held on 24 July 2014.\n\nIn February 2014, Shila's manager got her an invitation to \"I Am a Singer\" (Season 2). In the 7th round, aired 21 February 2014, she performed the song \"Xiang Ni De Ye\", a song originally sung by Chinese pop star Guan Zhe. After the performance her Weibo followers increased rapidly from 1 thousand to over 2 million. In the Breakthrough round, aired 21 March 2014, she reached first place by singing a cover of \"Rolling in the Deep\". Shila's popularity rose in China after \"I Am a Singer\" aired beside her performance at the \"Asian Wave\".\n\nThroughout the show, she showed versatility in her range of music styles, from languages (Chinese and English), performance methods (dancing while singing) and musical styles (high note, pop, R&B, rap). On 4 April 2014, she came third overall, losing to Han Lei from China and Tang Tsz Kei from Hong Kong.\n\nThrough \"I Am a Singer\" (Season 2), she was able to quickly adapt to a new language. Being a non-Chinese speaker or singer, she only needed two days to learn a new Chinese song. \"I Am a Singer\" (season 2) helped her in gaining a larger base of China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong fans. Currently, she attends Mandarin classes in Beijing and is working on improving her Mandarin.\n\n\nOn 22 April 2015, Shila held a \"Shila Amzah: The Symbol of Love, International Press Conference\" at Mira Hotel, Hong Kong. During the press conference, Shila stated that she would be collaborating with GME Music and Vie Media to expand her career in Hong Kong. She performed her two newest Chinese-language songs called \"See You or Never\" and \"Shali De Mimi\". She announced the release an extended play followed by a full album. She mentioned that she plans to learn Cantonese.\n\nOn 28 May 2015, Shila released her debut Chinese single in Hong Kong, \"See You or Never\" (Chinese: 再見不再見) through Shilala (HK) Limited. The song was written by Liao Yu and composed by Shila herself. This single was performed live during her international press conference\".\" The song reached 1 million streams in just two days on Weibo Music. Shila said that this song is unique as the song hasn't an ending (the song ended with \"Zaijian Bu Zaijian\", questioning herself again).\n\nOn 1 October 2015, Shila performed her second Chinese single in Hong Kong, \"Goodbye\" (Chinese: 再見) during her \"Shila Amzah Meet & Greet Hong Kong\" acoustically with a guitar\".\" On 6 October 2015, Shila released the single through Shilala (HK) Limited on Weibo Music and iTunes. The song was produced by Jun Kung and Kelvin Avon. The writers was inspired to write \"Goodbye\" after hearing Shila's previous single, which was \"See You or Never\". The song contains Malaysian pop and Mandopop elements and its lyrics have Shila desiring an out-of-reach love interest. Shila said that this song has an English version of it that will be launched in her upcoming album. The single is a continuation from her previous Chinese hit, \"Zaijian Bu Zaijian\" (再見不再見), meaning \"See You or Never\".\n\nOn 26 December 2015, Shila was named Metro Radio National Idol and received Metro Radio Mandarin Song of the Year for from the Metro Radio Music Awards for \"Goodbye\".\n\nOn 12 February 2016, Shila visited Perth for her \"Shila Amzah Colorful World 2016 Live in Perth\". This concert was promoted by Aus World Travel and Chinatown Cinema. She performed her newest Chinese song, \"Xiang Ai\" from her debut Chinese-language album, \"My Journey\". On 26 February 2016, Shila was awarded \"Outstanding Export Achievement Award\" by the Malaysia External Trade Development Corporation (MATRADE) during the MATRADE Awards for her achievement promoting Malaysia at the international stages.\n\nIn early 2016, Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia, Datuk Seri Ahmad Zahid Hamidi announced during the 19th Tourism Malaysia Awards that Shila was appointed as Malaysia's tourism ambassador. The Malaysian Government believes Shila could attract millions of visitors from mainland China to vacation in Malaysia. The fact that she speaks fluent Chinese will make it easier for her to deal with her music management and her Chinese fans.\n\nOn 10 March 2016, \"Music Asia\" reported that Shila has her sights set on Taiwan music market. Shila said she had produced a song with Khalil Fong to release in Taiwan. On 13 March 2016, Malaysian Chinese newspaper \"Sinchew Daily\" reported that the album was 80% done, with a planned release in April 2016. On 1 April 2016, Shila released her debut Chinese microfilm titled \"Girlfriends Love\" (閨蜜情緣), in which she plays the lead. On 14 April 2016, Shila released the theme song of the new series of \"The Powerpuff Girls\" (2016), \"Who's Got the Power?\" in Malay and Chinese exclusively on YouTube.\n\nOn 21 April 2016, Shila announced her debut Chinese album, \"My Journey\" (Chinese: 心旅) on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook simultaneously. The album was released physically and digitally on 30 April 2016 through Shilala (HK) Limited and was launched in Beijing, China. The album's supporting world tour, \"Shila Amzah My Journey World Tour\" was first held on 26 August 2017 in Arena of Stars, Genting Highland in Malaysia. The concert is the fifth full-fledged solo concert by Shila after the \"Shila Amzah Colorful World Live in Perth\" in Australia and the second full-fledged concert by her in Malaysia after the Shila Amzah Love Live in Malaysia Concert held in 13 September 2014.\n\nAt a press conference on 27 December 2017, in Los Angeles, US, it was announced that Shila will released a new single written by a two-time Emmy award-winning composer, Nathan Wang titled \"Rising Above\" in the US in conjunction of the Rose Parade in Pasedana, California. The song was recorded in English and Mandarin in Burbank, California. \n\nOn 16 April 2018, Shila released \"If We Are Getting Old\" (Chinese: 如果我们老了) as the lead single of her upcoming seventh overall and second debut Chinese-language studio album through Star Culture Media. It was released ahead of her solemnization ceremony with her current husband, Haris Idraki Elias. She performed the lead single live during Global Chinese Music Chart and also during her reception wedding held in Putrajaya, Malaysia. On 10 May 2018, Shila released the second single \"Love Planet\" (Chinese: 涂爱星球) of her upcoming album through Star Culture Media. On 12 June 2018, Shila released the third single \"My Dear\" (Chinese: 我的他) of her seventh studio album through Star Culture Media. It was composed by Shila herself.\n\nOn 5 June 2016, Shila launched her own clothing line and her exclusive boutique called SA by Shila Amzah Boutique located at Bangi Sentral, Selangor, Malaysia.\n\nAt the 20th Malaysian Music Awards, Shila received the Anugerah Kembara (\"International Breakthrough Award\"). The award is given to Malaysian artists who have performed internationally and introduced Malaysians song to the world. Shila Amzah was given this award after she rose to fame as the champion of \"Asian Wave\" (2012), a reality Chinese singing competition held in Shanghai, China.\n\nAt the \"Perhimpunan Agung UMNO\" (UMNO General Assembly) 2014, she received the \"Puteri UMNO Female Icon Award\".\n\nShila set up her own company – Shila Amzah Entertainment Berhad and Shilala (HK) Limited – with activities generally in the entertainment scene. She is also the founder and president of her own clothing line company, Shila Amzah Boutique Sdn. Bhd.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58551", "title": "Sleepy Hollow, New York", "text": "Sleepy Hollow, New York\n\nSleepy Hollow is a village in the town of Mount Pleasant, in Westchester County, New York. The village is located on the east bank of the Hudson River, about north of New York City, and is served by the Philipse Manor stop on the Metro-North Hudson Line. To the south of Sleepy Hollow is the village of Tarrytown, and to the north and east are unincorporated parts of Mount Pleasant. The population of the village at the 2010 census was 9,870.\n\nOriginally incorporated as North Tarrytown in the late 19th century, in 1996 the village officially adopted the traditional name for the area. The village is known to many via \"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow\", a short story about the local area and its infamous specter, the Headless Horseman, written by Washington Irving, who lived in Tarrytown and is buried in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery. Owing to this story, as well as the village's roots in early American history and folklore, Sleepy Hollow is considered by some to be one of the \"most haunted places in the world\".\n\nThe village is home to the Philipsburg Manor House and the Old Dutch Church of Sleepy Hollow, as well as the Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, where in addition to Washington Irving, numerous other notable people are buried.\n\nThe land that would become Sleepy Hollow was first bought from Adriaen van der Donck, a patroon in New Netherland before the English takeover in 1664. Starting in 1672 Frederick Philipse began acquiring large parcels of land mainly in today's southern Westchester County. Comprising some of land, it was bounded by the Spuyten Duyvil Creek, the Croton River, the Hudson River, and the Bronx River. Philipse was granted a royal charter in 1693, creating the Manor of Philipsburg and establishing him as first lord.\n\nIn today's Sleepy Hollow he established an upper mill and shipping depot, today part of the Philipse Manor House historic site. A pious man, he was architect and financier of the town's Old Dutch Church, said also to have built the pulpit with his own hands.\n\nWhen Philipse died in 1702, the manor was divided between his son, Adolphus Philipse, and his grandson, Frederick Philipse II. Adolph received the Upper Mills property, which extended from Dobbs Ferry to the Croton River. Frederick II was given the Lower Mills at the confluence of the Saw Mill and Hudson Rivers, the two parcels being reunited on his uncle's death. His son, Frederick III, became the third lord of the manor in 1751.\n\nIn 1779, Frederick Philipse III, a Loyalist, was attained for treason, The manor was confiscated and sold at public auction, split between 287 buyers. The largest tract of land (about ) was at the Upper Mills; it passed to numerous owners until 1951, when it was acquired by Sleepy Hollow Restorations. Thanks to the philanthropy of John D. Rockefeller Jr., about were restored as today's historic site.\n\nSleepy Hollow is located at (41.091998, −73.864361). According to the United States Census Bureau, the village has a total area of , of which is land and , or 55.58%, is water.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, there were 9,870 people, 3,181 households, and 2,239 families residing in the village. The population density was 4,054.7 people per square mile (1,566.9/km²). There were 3,253 housing units at an average density of 1,431.8 per square mile (553.3/km²). The racial makeup of the village was 61.01% Caucasian, 6.21% African American, 0.83% Native American, 3.25% Asian, 0.01% Pacific Islander, 23.47% from other races, and 5.22% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 51.04% of the population, many of whom are Ecuadorian, Dominican, Chilean, and Puerto Rican.\n\nThere were 3,181 households out of which 36.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 51.5% were married couples living together, 13.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 29.6% were non-families. 23.0% of all households were made up of individuals and 8.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.89 and the average family size was 3.37.\n\nIn the village, the population was spread out with 25.0% under the age of 18, 8.9% from 18 to 24, 36.7% from 25 to 44, 18.9% from 45 to 64, and 10.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 34 years. For every 100 females, there were 103.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 101.9 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the village was $54,201, and the median income for a family was $63,889. Males had a median income of $39,923 versus $32,146 for females. The per capita income for the village was $28,325. About 5.7% of families and 7.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 9.3% of those under age 18 and 7.9% of those age 65 or over.\n\nThe Edward Harden Mansion, now serving as the administration building for the Public Schools of the Tarrytowns, Patriot's Park, Philipse Manor Railroad Station, Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, and the Tarrytown Light are listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The Old Dutch Church of Sleepy Hollow and Philipsburg Manor House are listed as National Historic Landmarks. Also of note are Kingsland Point Park, Philipse Manor Beach Club, and the Rockefeller State Park Preserve.\n\nIn 2017, former FDNY fireboat \"John D. McKean\" will be opened as a floating museum, near Tarrytown Lighthouse.\n\n, the village's police department had 27 officers, four school crossing guards, and three civilian employees.\nThe village is also served by the New York State Police and Westchester County Department of Public Safety.\nPolice officers from the villages of Sleepy Hollow and Dobbs Ferry, the town of Greenburgh, and the New York State Police make up a Marine / H.E.A.T. Unit.\nAs of 2006, police base salaries in Sleepy Hollow were low compared to other Westchester County forces, in part due to the lower tax base.\n\nThe Sleepy Hollow Fire Patrol, now the Sleepy Hollow Fire Department, was organized in 1876 and within 25 years had grown to five companies in three fire stations. As of 2012, there were three engines, two boats, and one tower ladder, as well as other equipment. The fire department is run by volunteers and responds to over 300 calls each year. The local hospital, Phelps Memorial, responds to hundreds of emergencies per year.\n\nEmergency medical services in Sleepy Hollow depend on volunteers assisted by paid staff. The Ambulance Corps has two basic life support ambulances. Mount Pleasant Paramedics provides advanced life support.\n\nSleepy Hollow has been used as a setting or filming location for numerous media works, including films, games, literature, motion pictures, and television productions, including: \n\n\n\nTelevision shot on location in Sleepy Hollow includes:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8655881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8655881", "title": "Superannuation Complaints Tribunal", "text": "Superannuation Complaints Tribunal\n\nThe Superannuation Complaints Tribunal is an independent statutory body established by the Australian Government to deal with complaints about superannuation (and certain life insurance annuities).\n\nThe Superannuation Complaints Tribunal was established under the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act in 1993. It was established at the same time as a new prudential and disclosure framework was put in place under the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993, protecting employees compulsory superannuation contributions (introduced in 1992).\n\nIn order for the Tribunal to deal with a complaint, a member (former member or potential beneficiary) of a superannuation fund must first make a formal complaint to the Trustee of that fund (under the fund's own internal complaints procedures). If the complaint is not resolved to the member's satisfaction (or has not been dealt with within a 90-day period) then a complaint can be made to the Tribunal.\n\nThe Tribunal will only deal with complaints as they relate to a trustee decision affecting an individual member. The Tribunal cannot deal with complaints about the fund as a whole (e.g. poor investment performance). \n\nThe Tribunal will first try and resolve the complaint through conciliation (where the SCT will facilitate a discussion with all parties involved).\n\nIf conciliation is not successful, the Tribunal will make a \"review\" decision that is binding on all parties.\n\nFrom July 1, 2018, the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA) will replace the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS), the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (SCT) and the Credit and Investments Ombudsman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1279568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1279568", "title": "The Wall Street Journal Special Editions", "text": "The Wall Street Journal Special Editions\n\nThe Wall Street Journal Special Editions is a venture launched in 1994 by \"The Wall Street Journal\" to expand its readership abroad, especially in the Americas. It publishes pages, bearing the \"Journal's\" banner, within major daily and weekly newspapers around the world featuring selected content from \"The Wall Street Journal\". Its Special Editions are carried in 37 newspapers in 35 countries, translated into 10 languages, with a total combined circulation of 5.2 million.\n\nThe Wall Street Journal Americas is the Special Editions' centerpiece, published in Spanish and Portuguese in 18 Latin American nations.\n"}
{"id": "713409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=713409", "title": "Theophilus Cazenove", "text": "Theophilus Cazenove\n\nTheophilus Cazenove, or Theophile Cazenove (13 October 1740 – 6 March 1811), was a Dutch financier and one of the agents of the Holland Land Company.\n\nTheophilus Cazenove was born in Amsterdam on 13 October 1740, as the son of Théophile Cazenove and Marie de Rapin-Thoyras, French/Swiss Huguenots. His father was a merchant and banker in Bordeaux, Saint Petersburg, Archangelsk, Stockholm and the West-Indies; in 1759 he lost four ships loaded with sugar and coffee, which were taken by a Bristol privateer. In 1760 the elder Théophile gave up his business and his sons Charles and Theophile assumed control of the company. In 1763, Theophile married Margaretha Helena van Jever, the daughter of a tradesman in Russia, and a member of the vroedschap. Cazenove spent his early career in commercial transactions in France and Russia, but went broke in 1770. In the same year, his portrait was painted by Jean-Baptiste Perronneau. After the death of his father-in-law he was involved in a plantation in Surinam. In 1788 he collaborated with Étienne Clavière and Jacques Pierre Brissot, who both traveled to the United States.\n\nIn November 1789 Cazenove was retained by Pieter Stadnitski to travel to the United States to act as an investment agent for Stadnitski and other Dutch investors (Nicolaas and Jacob Van Staphorst, Pieter & Christiaen Van Eeghen, and Ten Cate & Vollenhoven). Casenove settled in at Market Street in Philadelphia, where he dealt with financier Robert Morris; his fellow traveller Gerrit Boon later went north. Boon believed that harvesting maple syrup could be a year-round activity, so slavery on the sugarcane plantations could be avoided.\n\nIn 1792 Cazenove invested his clients' money in development bonds issued by the new states and the federal government, after Alexander Hamilton promised to fully pay the debt. Another venture included investing in large tracts of undeveloped land in Genesee County, New York, which included the Holland Purchase. In order to implement these large and difficult purchases (sometimes complicated by the claims of Native Americans), he employed the advisory services of Hamilton and later Aaron Burr.\n\nCazenove lived well as a \"grand seigneur\" and was known for his extreme carelessness. His business dealings in maple syrup and canals were not particularly successful and the investors barely made any profit, even losing money in the Pennsylvania land dealings which he organized with James Wilson. He was also hard pressed to account for funds that were under his control. During this period he helped his cousin from Geneva to settle in Philadelphia. Alexander Baring wrote: \"Cazenove is a sad dirty fellow and does all the mischief he can.\" In 1798 he hired Joseph Ellicott but Paolo Busti became his successor.\n\nAlthough he became an American citizen in 1794, Cazenove returned to Europe in 1799. In Amsterdam he began to archive purchase of land for the financiers. He left the employment of the Dutch investors in 1802 and sought a position under Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord, who he had met in Philadelphia in 1795, when also Talleyrand invested in land purchase. Cazenove died in Paris in the Rue du Bac.\n\nHis correspondence along with the records of the Holland Land Company are held in the Amsterdam City Archives.\n\nA number of places in New York are named after him, including the Village of Cazenovia, Town of Cazenovia, Cazenovia College, Cazenovia Lake, and Cazenovia Creek.\n"}
{"id": "2206050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2206050", "title": "Thomas F. Bayard Jr.", "text": "Thomas F. Bayard Jr.\n\nThomas Francis Bayard Jr. (June 4, 1868 – July 12, 1942) was an American lawyer and politician from Wilmington, Delaware. He was a Democratic U.S. Senator from Delaware in the 1920s.\n\nBayard was born in Wilmington, Delaware, son of U.S. Senator Thomas F. Bayard Sr. and grandson of U.S. Senator James A. Bayard Jr. In 1908, he married Elizabeth Bradford du Pont, and they had five children, Elizabeth, Thomas, Ellen, James, and Alexis. They were members of the Episcopal Church.\n\nBayard graduated from Yale University in 1890, where he was a member of Skull and Bones, attended Yale Law School and was admitted to the Delaware Bar in 1893. After living in New York City for four years and working as assistant corporation counsel, he returned to his Delaware law practice in 1901.\n\nHe married Elizabeth Bradford du Pont on October 4, 1908.\n\nHe served as a chairman of the Delaware Democratic Party's state committee from 1906 to 1916, and as solicitor for the city of Wilmington from 1917 until 1919.\n\nBayard was elected to the U.S. Senate in a special election on November 7, 1922, to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of U.S. Senator Josiah O. Wolcott. On the same day, he was also elected for the full term to follow, in both instances defeating incumbent Republican U.S. Senator T. Coleman du Pont (a cousin of Bayard's wife), who had been appointed. During this term, he served in the Democratic minority in the last session of the 67th Congress, and in the 68th, 69th, and 70th Congress.\n\nBayard lost his bid for a second full term in 1928 to Republican John G. Townsend Jr., the former governor. He then lost another bid for a second full term in 1930 to incumbent Republican U.S. Senator Daniel O. Hastings. In all, Bayard served one term and part of another, from November 7, 1922, to March 3, 1929, during the administrations of U.S. presidents Warren G. Harding and Calvin Coolidge. Subsequently, he resumed his law practice in Wilmington.\n\nBayard died at Wilmington and is buried there in the Old Swedes Episcopal Church Cemetery. His son, Alexis I. du Pont Bayard, served as Lieutenant Governor of Delaware from 1949 to 1953.\n\nHe is the namesake of the town of Bayard, West Virginia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "375988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375988", "title": "Unfair competition", "text": "Unfair competition\n\nUnfair (or disloyal) competition in commercial law is a deceptive business practice that causes economic harm to other businesses or to consumers. It includes a number of areas of law involving acts by one competitor or group of competitors which harm another in the field, and which may give rise to criminal offenses and civil causes of action. The most common actions falling under the banner of unfair competition include:\n\n\nVarious unfair business practices such as fraud, misrepresentation, and unconscionable contracts may be considered unfair competition, if they give one competitor an advantage over others. In the European Union, each member state must regulate unfair business practices in accordance with the principles laid down in the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, subject to transitional periods. (See also trade regulation law.)\n\n"}
{"id": "2006272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006272", "title": "Workfare", "text": "Workfare\n\nWorkfare is an alternative, and controversial, way of providing money to otherwise unemployed or underemployed people, who are applying for social benefits. The term was first introduced by civil rights leader James Charles Evers in 1968; however, it was popularized by Richard Nixon in a televised speech August 1969. An early model of workfare had been pioneered in 1961 by Joseph Mitchell in Newburgh, New York.\n\nTraditional welfare benefits systems are usually awarded based on certain conditions, such as searching for work, or based on meeting criteria that would position the recipient as unavailable to seek employment or be employed. Under workfare, recipients have to meet certain participation requirements to continue to receive their welfare benefits. These requirements are often a combination of activities that are intended to improve the recipient's job prospects (such as training, rehabilitation, and work experience) and those designated as contributing to society (such as unpaid or low-paid work). These programs, now common in Australia (as \"mutual obligation\"), Canada, and the United Kingdom, have generated considerable debate and controversy. In the Netherlands workfare is known as Work First, based on the Wisconsin Works program from the United States.\n\nThere are two main types of workfare scheme: those that encourage direct employment to get individuals off the welfare roll and directly into the workforce, and those that are intended to increase human capital by providing training and education to those currently in the welfare system.\n\nIn less developed countries, similar schemes are designed to alleviate rural poverty among day-labourers by providing state-subsidised temporary work during those periods of the year when little agricultural work is available. For example, the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) in India offers 100 days' paid employment per year for those eligible, rather than unemployment benefits on the Western model. However, a workfare model typically not only focuses on provision of social protection through a wage-income transfer, but also supports workers to get into work.\n\nThe purported main goal of workfare is to generate a \"net contribution\" to society from welfare recipients. Most commonly, it means getting unemployed people into paid work, reducing or eliminating welfare payments to them and creating an income that generates taxes. Workfare participants may retain certain employee rights throughout the process, however, often workfare programs are determined to be \"outside employment relationships\" and therefore the rights of beneficiaries can be different. \n\nSome workfare systems also aim to derive a contribution from welfare recipients by more direct means. Such systems obligate unemployed people to undertake work that is considered beneficial to their community.\n\nWorkfare schemes in the UK are controversial. In the US, critics point out that the type of work offered by workfare providers is generally unskilled and is comparable to community work carried out by criminal offenders being punished on community service schemes. Many charities and workers' unions have criticized workfare schemes for undermining the work done by actual charity volunteers, and acting as a threat to low paid unskilled workers.\n\nIn Australia, the Work for the Dole schemes have been linked to the concepts of “mutual obligation” and \"compliance\". Their effectiveness has been questioned by researchers.\n\n\n"}
