{"id": "40599273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40599273", "title": "Abby Scott Baker", "text": "Abby Scott Baker\n\nAbby Pearce Scott Baker (1871 – 1944) was an American suffragist and women's rights advocate. She served as Political Chairman of the National Woman's Party, and played a key role in putting the NWP in the media spotlight in the months leading up to the ratification of Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. She was also active in the Congressional Union for Women's Suffrage. Baker was seen as instrumental in bridging the gap across administrations, from Woodrow Wilson, who was deeply hostile toward the NWP, to Harding, who was seen as more willing to engage the NWP in dialogue, and brought women's participation in party politics to a more acceptable place in the public discourse.\n\nShe was born on July 24, 1871, as Abby Pearce Scott in Louisville, Kentucky, to Robert Nicholson Scott (1838–1887) and Elizabeth Goodale Casey (1844–1912). Her father and grandfather were Army officers.\n\nShe was educated at the Norwood Institute.\n\nShe married Robert Walker Baker (1863–1956) around 1893. The couple had three sons.\n\nBakers was one of Alice Paul’s earliest associates. She helped Alice Paul and Lucy Burns plan their first major event–the March 3, 1913, national suffrage parade on the eve of Woodrow Wilson’s inauguration.\n\nIn 1914 she served as treasurer of the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage.\n\nBaker traveled the country as part of the Congressional Union’s “Suffrage Special” train tour of western states in April–May 1916. Baker was in charge of handling the press for the tour. The support that she helped raise from women in states that had already granted women’s suffrage. On April 29, Baker wrote to \"The Suffragist\" on how the tour was received '[Men] invariably call out, 'Here come the Suffragettes,' but very soon they are saying, 'She's all right,' and 'That's straight lady,' or some such approving phrase...\" The tour culminated in a June 1916 meeting in Chicago to form what was at first called the Woman’s Party of Western Voters, or Woman’s Party, for short (NWP). When the NWP was more formally organized in relation to the CU in March 1917, Baker was elected to the NWP executive committee and served as its press chairman (1917-18) and political chairman (1917; 1919-21).\n\nBaker was among the first demonstrators to picket the White House; she was arrested in September 1917 and sentenced to 60 days in the Occoquan Workhouse. In February–March 1919, she served as publicity manager and speaker for the “Prison Special,” a three-week lecture tour by NWP activists who spoke to packed audiences about their jail experiences in an effort to generate support for the suffrage cause. The other speakers included Lillian Ascough, Harriot Stanton Blatch and Lucy Burns. They spoke publicly, distributed literature, and sold the \"Suffragist\". This tour was credited with arousing interest in federal suffrage among, prospective, voting age women.\n\nWhen the NWP’s patriotism was challenged, she reminded critics that her three sons were fighting in World War I.\n\nBaker maintained an intense travel schedule before and during the campaign season for the 1920 presidential election, shuttling between the campaign headquarters of Warren G. Harding in Ohio and James M. Cox in Tennessee, building close relationships with both candidates. Baker's indefatigable efforts drew a great deal of media attention, and helped to normalize the presence of women in the political sphere in the public imagination.\n\nAfter suffrage was achieved, Baker became a member of the NWP’s Committee on International Relations and the Women’s Consultative Committee of the League of Nations. She also represented the NWP at the League’s 1935 international conferences in Geneva where the issue of equal rights was discussed.\n\nShe died on May 13, 1944, in Washington, DC.\n"}
{"id": "36169336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36169336", "title": "Abdelkader Aamara", "text": "Abdelkader Aamara\n\nAbdelkader Aamara ( - born 28 January 1962, in Bouarfa) is a Moroccan politician of the Justice and Development Party and is its Chief Treasurer. On 3 January 2012 he was nominated as the Minister for Industry, Trade and New Technologies in the cabinet of Abdelilah Benkirane. Between 2013 and 2016 he was the Minister for Energy, Mines, Water and Environment and since 5 April 2017 he has been the minister for Equipment, Transport and Water Logistics in the cabinet of El Othmani. From 2 - 20 August 2018 he also took an interim position as the Minister for Economy and Finance following the firing of Mohamed Boussaid. Since 2002 he has served as MP for Salé (re-elected in 2007, 2011) and is a professor at the Hassan II Institute of Agronomy in Rabat, from which he graduated in 1986.\n\nA laureate and then, since 1986, professor at the Rabat Hassan II Veterinary and Agronomical Institute, Abdelkader Amara obtained his doctorate in the same year before leaving for France in 1989.\n\nAmara has been a member of the General Secretariat, Treasurer and Former President of the Central Framework Committee of the Justice and Development Party since 1997. He has also been an expert at the World Science Organisation, based in Sweden, for the last ten years.\n\nAs a Councillor in the town of Salé since 2002, Amara is also a former President of the Productive Sectors Commission in the Chamber of Representatives and is an ex-member of the chamber's bureau.\n\nAs Vice-President of the Justice and Development Party group in the chamber in charge of communications, Amara is also a founding member of the Association of Moroccan Parliamentarians Against Corruption and a former member of the Administrative Commission of the National Higher Education Trade Union.\n\nAmara is also the Vice-President of the World Forum of Islamic Parliamentarians, of which he is a founding member, and founding member of the International Alliance for the Support of Al-Qods and Palestine (Istanbul).\n\nAbdelkader Amara is married and a father of three children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11685668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11685668", "title": "Absadah", "text": "Absadah\n\nAbsadah was a Christian priest and martyr.\n\nHe was born near Behnesa, Egypt, 300. He was a priest to a small congregation in his village. Upon the start of the Diocletian Persecution, Absadah barricaded himself in his home, planning to hide from persecution, and losing faith in the protection of the Lord. Later, he recounted a vision of Jesus appearing before him. After that vision of Jesus Absadah had only two options: to deny his faith or to learn again to trust the God who had been executed. He voluntarily came before the court, and was sent to Alexandria. In Alexandria, he was visited by Jules D'acfahs.\n\nHis death sentence was to be burnt alive. However, he was executed by beheading. It was performed outside the walls of the city. He was buried at Cairo.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church has commemorated Absadah as a saint, with a feast day of January 19.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10941831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10941831", "title": "Agent-based computational economics", "text": "Agent-based computational economics\n\nAgent-based computational economics (ACE) is the area of computational economics that studies economic processes, including whole economies, as dynamic systems of interacting agents. As such, it falls in the paradigm of complex adaptive systems. In corresponding agent-based models, the \"agents\" are \"computational objects modeled as interacting according to rules\" over space and time, not real people. The rules are formulated to model behavior and social interactions based on incentives and information. Such rules could also be the result of optimization, realized through use of AI methods (such as Q-learning and other reinforcement learning techniques).\n\nThe theoretical assumption of mathematical optimization by agents in equilibrium is replaced by the less restrictive postulate of agents with bounded rationality \"adapting\" to market forces. ACE models apply numerical methods of analysis to computer-based simulations of complex dynamic problems for which more conventional methods, such as theorem formulation, may not find ready use. Starting from initial conditions specified by the modeler, the computational economy evolves over time as its constituent agents repeatedly interact with each other, including learning from interactions. In these respects, ACE has been characterized as a bottom-up culture-dish approach to the study of economic systems.\n\nACE has a similarity to, and overlap with, game theory as an agent-based method for modeling social interactions. But practitioners have also noted differences from standard methods, for example in ACE events modeled being driven solely by initial conditions, whether or not equilibria exist or are computationally tractable, and in the modeling facilitation of agent autonomy and learning.\n\nThe method has benefited from continuing improvements in modeling techniques of computer science and increased computer capabilities. The ultimate scientific objective of the method is to \"test theoretical findings against real-world data in ways that permit empirically supported theories to cumulate over time, with each researcher’s work building appropriately on the work that has gone before.\" The subject has been applied to research areas like asset pricing, competition and collaboration, transaction costs, market structure and industrial organization and dynamics, welfare economics, and mechanism design, information and uncertainty, macroeconomics, and Marxist economics.\n\nThe \"agents\" in ACE models can represent individuals (e.g. people), social groupings (e.g. firms), biological entities (e.g. growing crops), and/or physical systems (e.g. transport systems). The ACE modeler provides the initial configuration of a computational economic system comprising multiple interacting agents. The modeler then steps back to observe the development of the system over time without further intervention. In particular, system events should be driven by agent interactions without external imposition of equilibrium conditions. Issues include those common to experimental economics in general and development of a common framework for empirical validation and resolving open questions in agent-based modeling.\n\nACE is an officially designated special interest group (SIG) of the Society for Computational Economics. Researchers at the Santa Fe Institute have contributed to the development of ACE.\n\nOne area where ACE methodology has frequently been applied is asset pricing. W. Brian Arthur, Eric Baum, William Brock, Cars Hommes, and Blake LeBaron, among others, have developed computational models in which many agents choose from a set of possible forecasting strategies in order to predict stock prices, which affects their asset demands and thus affects stock prices. These models assume that agents are more likely to choose forecasting strategies which have recently been successful. The success of any strategy will depend on market conditions and also on the set of strategies that are currently being used. These models frequently find that large booms and busts in asset prices may occur as agents switch across forecasting strategies. More recently, Brock, Hommes, and Wagener (2009) have used a model of this type to argue that the introduction of new hedging instruments may destabilize the market, and some papers have suggested that ACE might be a useful methodology for understanding the recent financial crisis.\n\n"}
{"id": "13217320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13217320", "title": "Android 17", "text": "Android 17\n\n, born as Lapis (ラピス Rapisu) is a fictional character in the \"Dragon Ball\" manga series created by Akira Toriyama. Android 17 makes his debut in chapter #349 The Androids Awake! (目覚めた17号、18号, Mezameta Jūnanagō, Jūhachigō), first published in \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" on November 12, 1991. \n\nHe and his twin sister, Android 18 were forcibly turned into cyborgs by Dr. Gero to kill series protagonist Goku. The present-timeline version of the character has little interest in doing so, only pursuing it as a game. The alternate timeline version is activated after Goku's death, murdering the other characters and having a twenty-year reign of terror on Earth until being killed by Future Trunks. They serve as the de facto antagonists of the second act of the third volume of the \"Dragon Ball\" manga, as well as the third season of the anime adaptation \"Dragon Ball Z\", only to be supplanted by fellow android Cell, whose purpose was to physically absorb the twins into himself to fully evolve into his complete form. He later returns in \"Dragon Ball Super\" as part of the Tournament of Power storyline. \n\nAndroid #17 is activated by Dr. Gero after Gero fails to terminate Goku. #18 is activated a short time after, and the group of androids are discovered by the heroes, Dr. Gero ordering #17 and #18 to terminate them while Android #17 remains passive until killing Gero. After surviving a full power attack from Trunks, the androids activate #16 and begin a quest to find Goku out of pure entertainment, being confronted by Vegeta who begins a duel with #18. #17 is content with allowing the pair to combat each other but warns against the other heroes joining in as he would get involved, doing so after Trunks attacks #18 once she breaks Vegeta's arm, #17 easily defeating Piccolo and Tenshinhan. Krillin confronts Android #17 over his intent to kill Goku, trying to talk him out of it and failing. Continuing their search, the androids arrive at Goku's home, finding no one there and then journeying to Kame House, where they find several of Goku's friends, Piccolo stepping up to combat them. #17 agrees to the battle and they fight an even match until Cell arrives, able to find the group thanks to the outpouring of power on Piccolo's part. #17 is confused to see the bio android, Piccolo revealing Cell's needing to absorb him and #18 to achieve his perfect form. #17 and Piccolo find themselves overwhelmed by Cell, #16 stepping in and proving to be a match against Cell, though insisting that #17 and #18 leave as the pair decline. Cell sneaks up behind #17, being seen by Tenshinhan from the sky who warns #17 moments before he is absorbed and triggers Cell's transforming into his second form. #17 dies when Cell self-destructs in a failed attempt to destroy the Earth, being resurrected with the Dragon Balls after Cell's defeat along with all of his other victims and having his bomb removed by a wish from Krillin. Years later, #17 is killed a second time when Majin Buu destroys the Earth, being revived along with all other good people on Earth and donating his energy to Goku's \"Spirit Bomb\" to annihilate Majin Buu.\n\nIn the alternate future, #17 and #18 are designed with the intention of killing Goku, who dies before they are released, and are portrayed as ruthless murderers who slaughter Earth's heroes and have a twenty-year reign over Earth. For a time, Gohan and Trunks remain the only ones who can combat the pair in battle, though Gohan is killed by #17, and after this, #17 and #18 are able to defeat Trunks with ease. Once he returns from the past, Trunks confronts the androids and easily defeats the pair, first terminating #18 and doing the same to #17.\n\nGoku and Gohan agree on approaching Android 17 for participation in the Tournament of Power, and Android 18 reveals him to be working at a wildlife reserve, Goku seeking out Dende to locate Android 17 and being declined by the latter initially until the two defeat poachers together and 17 reverses his prior decision. After being picked up by Krillin and 18, 17 travels to the tournament, choosing to fight alone. Androids 17 and 18 save Goku, Caulifa, and Kale after they are pushed to the brink of the ring, and he eliminates Universe 2's Vikal and Kakunsa. Android 17 saves Android 18 from an attack by Katopesla. 17 then aids his Universe 7 allies in battling Universe 3. 18 sacrifices herself to save 17 after he is falling off the stage, but he is kicked back onto it by 18. 17, with the aid of Goku, Vegeta, Gohan and Frieza, eliminate Universe 3, leaving Universes 7 and 11 as the only participants remaining in the tournament. Android 17 and Gohan team up against Toppo, Android 17 luring Toppo into a barrier that Gohan blasts to the edge of the arena to eliminate them both, the plan being botched when Android 17 is punched by Toppo and drops the barrier. Following Android 17 distracting Toppo to allow Gohan to aid Frieza against Dyspo, and Gohan and Dyspo's eliminations, Android 17 teams up with Frieza against Toppo, and the two are hit by an attack from Jiren, allowing Toppo to fight Vegeta. After Vegeta eliminates Toppo, Android 17, Goku, and Vegeta attack Jiren together but are outclassed, Android 17 then sneaking up behind Jiren and damaging him. Jiren defeats Goku and Vegeta and proceeds to do the same to Frieza when the latter rejoins the fight. After Android 17 asks of Jiren's wish and Belmod explains Jiren's background of having lost friends and loved ones to a power villain, Android 17 accuses Jiren of using the other members of his team to meet his own ends. Jiren launches an energy blast on Android 17, Goku, and Vegeta, Android 17 holding the attack with a barrier and projecting force fields on Goku and Vegeta to shield them before self-destructing to destroy the blast. Goku thinks about 17's faith in him before assuming the Ultra Instinct form. After Ultra Instinct Goku is nearly eliminated by Jiren, 17 resurfaces with Frieza and resumes his participation in the fight. Combined attacks by 17 and Frieza destroy Jiren's barrier and following Goku and Frieza teaming up to take Jiren out of the ring, Android 17 becomes the only contestant remaining, winning the tournament and wishing for all the universes erased during the tournament to be restored.\n\nIn the anime-only sequel, \"Dragon Ball GT\", Dr. Gero and Dr. Myuu create a copy of Android 17 by the name of Hell Fighter 17, who meets up with Android 17 and brainwashes him. Android 17 attacks Trunks, confronting Android 18 with a proposed merge and using the same telepathic ability to try brainwashing her into complying, until Krillin brings her back to her senses, causing Android 17 to fatally injure him. Android 18 attacks Android 17, though he overwhelms her as she blocks an attack intended for her daughter Marron. Android 17 departs to meet his copy and the two fuse to form Super 17, defeating the heroes and under orders from Dr. Myuu, kills Dr. Gero again. Super 17 gives Goku trouble during their ensuring fight as he is able to absorb all of his attacks. After Android 18 arrives, seeking revenge for Krillin's murder, Android 17's psyche is able to take control of the fused form, killing Dr. Myuu and revealing to Goku and Android 18 that Super 17 is not able to move and absorb energy at the same time. Goku then kills Super 17 using the \"Super Dragon Fist\" as Super 17 is unable to absorb the attack. Android 17 is later revived with the Dragon Balls.\n\nAndroid 17 appears in multiple \"Dragon Ball Z\" games. In the 2005 game \"Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi\", Android #17 becomes Super 17 and is confronted by Cell, Super 17 showing an interest in killing Goku before being defeated.\nIn the 2011 game \"\", Androids 17 and 18 fight the player and lose their Dragon Balls and radar after being defeated. In the 2015 game \"Dragon Ball Xenoverse\", Android 17 is empowered by Towa as part of her plan to erase Trunks from existence, the player causing him to flee. Thanks to this change, Cell is able to absorb 17 and 18 without Trunks interfering. In the 2016 game \"Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2\", Android 17 charges Cell on after the bio android defeats Piccolo and 16, in turn being knocked out by a hit from Cell that sends him flying into Android 18, the unconscious duo being absorbed simultaneously by Cell. When the player intervenes in Android #17's fight with Piccolo, Android #17 is found to have been empowered similarly to Cell, and Trunks warns that he must be stripped of the empowerment before Cell arrives. In an alternate ending, Androids 17 and 18 are prevented from killing Gohan by Trunks distorting the timeline and joining his mentor in facing the pair, leading to the androids' deaths.\n\nAndroid #17 appears in the spin-off manga \"Dragon Ball SD\", being spat out by Cell.\n\nAndroids #17 and 18 were created by Akira Toriyama after his editor at the time, Kazuhiko Torishima, expressed distaste with Androids #19 and #20 shortly after their debut. Torishima complained about the new youthful duo once they were incorporated into the story, resulting in the creation of Cell. Android #17's brief appearance during the Boo arc was originally Lunch, a character not otherwise seen during the second half of the manga. \nToriyama revealed Android #17's real name as Lapis in 2014.\n\nWhen introduced Android 17 has shoulder length black hair that is parted in the middle, which he retains throughout \"Dragon Ball Z\". He has a black short-sleeved shirt with a white long sleeved undershirt, an orange bandana, blue jeans, green socks and blue shoes. In \"Dragon Ball GT\", he is shown to retain this appearance but also have acquired a tan jacket. In \"Dragon Ball Super\", Android 17's hairstyle becomes identical to Android 18's save for the parted side being the reverse of hers. His outfit now consists of a white and green shirt with blue jeans, black shoes and a tanned belt. He also wears an orange armband with the word \"Ranger\" written on it.\n\nShigeru Nakahara voices Android 17 in all Japanese media.\n\nIn the English Funimation dub, Android 17 is voiced by Chuck Huber. Huber had previously voiced Garlic Jr. during the filler arc based around the character, though thought of Android 17 as his biggest role since \"nobody liked Garlic Jr. as much as they liked Android 17.\" Huber considered the role his easiest and a \"voice actor vacation\", as under the direction of Christopher Sabat he did not have to put on a voice and was advised to be calmer in his dialect. Huber personally found the character to be a \"giant jerk\" though liked Android #17 for the characteristic.\n\nThanks to his conversion into a cyborg, Android #17 possesses superhuman strength, speed, durability, stamina, and reflexes.\n\nSimilarly to many other characters in \"Dragon Ball\", Android #17 can fly with the use . Android #17 wields the , which involves throwing out his hands to release two arcing electric energy beams after charging them, , where Android #17 fires an energy wave from the palm of his hand, and , #17 firing a single energy sphere that inflicts more damage than a normal one. Melee moves include \"Freedom Kick\", where he kicks an opponent multiple times before stomping on them. Additionally, he possesses the rather unique ability to project barriers. While unnamed in the show, in other media the technique is called the . It is a versatile technique whose uses include trapping enemies, protecting oneself from attacks, and even empowering blows with barrier energy.\n\nAndroid #17 is introduced as one of the strongest characters at the time, easily defeating Piccolo and Tienshinhan. After Piccolo receives an increase in power, Android #17 is evenly-matched with him, and #17 is outclassed by Cell after he absorbs thousands of humans.\n\nAndroid 17 has been met with positive reception. In the 2004 \"Dragon Ball Forever\" poll, Android 17 ranked 18th place for most popular character. Android 17 came in 17th place in Complex.com's list \"A Ranking of All the Characters on 'Dragon Ball Z', Pearce citing Android 17's disliking of his cybernetics as making him more interesting. Duncan Scott said Android 17 was his favorite of the androids in the series. The fight between Android 17 and Piccolo has been cited as one of the greatest fights in \"Dragon Ball Z\", ranking as the 6th best by Uproxx.com.\n\nReviewer Shawn Saris lamented the lack of attention devoted to his apparent sacrifice in the Tournament of Power: \"Due to his massive impact on the tournament, and the fact he is now dead (not simply knocked out of the tournament), more time should’ve been given to appreciate the severity of the moment.\" Android 17's wish to return erased universes was met with mixed reception, being called predictable by some commentators. Alternatively, Saris wrote, \"The revelation that Zen-Oh would have erased everyone had 17 not wished for everyone to be saved only makes his wish better as it truly highlights how far Android 17 has come in such a short time.\"\n"}
{"id": "58491215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58491215", "title": "Assisted suicide in the United Kingdom", "text": "Assisted suicide in the United Kingdom\n\nAssisted suicide is related to, but distinct from, euthanasia. Euthanasia is the act of ending the life of another for the purpose of relieving their suffering. Assisted suicide is the ending of one's own life with the assistance of another. The phrase \"assisted dying\" is often used instead of assisted suicide by proponents of legalisation and the media when used in the context of a medically assisted suicide for the purpose of relieving suffering. \"Assisted dying\" is also the phrase used by politicians when bills are proposed in parliament.\n\nSection 2 of the Suicide Act 1961, as originally enacted, provided that it was an offence to \"aid, abet, counsel or procure the suicide of another\" and that a person who committed this offence was liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding fourteen years. That section has amended by the Coroners and Justice Act 2009.\n\nApproximately 46 Britons a year go abroad to Dignitas in Switzerland for an assisted suicide. No family member has been convicted of helping them although some have been charged and have had to wait before hearing the charges have been dropped. Because of the inconsistencies between the law and prosecution Debbie Purdy launched a case to clarify whether or not her husband would risk being prosecuted if he helped her travel to a Dignitas clinic in Switzerland to die. Purdy's case ended on 30 August 2009 with the decision that the Director of Public Prosecutions had to clarify how the Suicide Act 1961 is to be enforced in England and Wales. The DPP issued guidelines in February 2010 setting out situations where a prosecution was not in the public interest, and therefore unlikely to happen. Two factors which point towards a prosecution not being in the public interest are that the victim had reached a voluntary, clear, settled and informed decision to commit suicide; and that the suspect was wholly motivated by compassion.\n\nThere have been various attempts to introduce legislation to change the legal situation regarding assisted suicide in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 1931 Dr C. Killick Millard, the President of the Society of Medical Officers of Health, proposed a Voluntary Euthanasia (Legislation) Bill for incurable invalids. In 1935, Lord Moynihan and Dr Killick Millard founded the British Voluntary Euthanasia Society (later known as EXIT and now as Dignity in Dying). The first attempt to reform the law in England was in 1936 by Lord Arthur Ponsonby and supported by the Euthanasia Society. \n\nThe British Voluntary Euthanasia Society produced \"A Guide To Self Deliverance\" giving guidelines on how a person should commit suicide. Publication was delayed amid controversy because of the Suicide Act of 1961 which states that the legal system can allow up to 14 years in prison for anyone that assists in a suicide. Therefore, it was unclear whether the Society could be held accountable for assisting in suicide because of its publication.\n\nIn 1969, a Bill was introduced into the House of Lords by Lord Raglan. In 1970, the House of Commons debated the issue. Baroness Wootton introduced a Bill to the Lords in 1976 on the matter of \"passive euthanasia\".\n\nOn 10 December 1997, a vote was taken in the House of Commons on the issue of introducing a Doctor Assisted Dying Bill, proposed by Labour MP Joe Ashton. The bill was defeated by 234 votes to 89.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2006, Labour peer Lord Joffe made four attempts to introduce bills that would have legalized assisted suicide and voluntary euthanasia - all were rejected by Parliament.\n\nIn June 2012, the British Medical Journal published an editorial arguing that medical organisations like the British Medical Association ought to drop their opposition to assisted dying and take a neutral stance so as to enable Parliament to debate the issue and not have what Raymond Tallis described as a \"disproportionate influence on the decision\".\n\nIn 2014, Labour peer Lord Falconer introduced an Assisted Dying Bill into the House of Lords. The bill proposed that terminally ill patients with a life expectancy of less than six months be given the option of a medically assisted death, subject to legal safeguards. The bill reached committee stage before running out of time in the session.\n\nIn 2015, Labour MP Rob Marris introduced an Assisted Dying Bill based on Lord Falconer's proposals the year before. The bill was defeated by 118 votes to 330 on 11 September 2015.\n\nIn 2016, Conservative peer Lord Hayward reintroduced the Assisted Dying Bill into the Lords. The bill did not get past the first reading due to the parliamentary session ending.\n\nAssisted dying in Scots law might constitute murder, culpable homicide or no offence depending on the nature of the assistance. In 1980, the Scottish branch of the British Voluntary Euthanasia Society (now called Exit) broke off from its original society in order to publish \"How to Die with Dignity\", which became the first publication of its kind in the world.\n\nIn a 2012 consultation on the Member's Bill proposed by MSP Margo MacDonald, 64% of the members of the public who choose to give comment on the issue rejected the proposals. A similar consultation by the Health and Sport Committee in 2014 came to a different conclusion, with 78% of responses by individuals being supportive of the proposals. Nevertheless, in 2015 a majority of MSPs including the first minister Alex Salmond voted against the bill in the Scottish Parliament, defeating it in its first stage.\n\nIn October 2018, in response to a petition, Jersey's Health Minister called on the laws banning assisted dying to be reviewed.\n\nIn May 2018, a vote was taken on the issue in Guernsey. The proposals would have allowed those with six months or less to live access to assisted dying. The vote was lost.\n\nIn July 2018 the Falkland Islands voted, in principle, to allow assisted dying for the terminally ill, subject to safeguards. They are the first British overseas territory to do so. In addition they voted to consider changing the law on assisted dying if the UK did the same. Whilst the vote did not change the law, campaigners saw it as a vote of support for legalisation in the UK.\n\nThere have been multiple challenges to the blanket ban on assisted suicide by people wanting a medically assisted suicide, both by patients with and without a terminal illness.\n\nIn 2001, motor neurone disease sufferer Diane Pretty took her case to the House of Lords, for the right to allow her husband to assist legally in her suicide. The case was dismissed by them, and also subsequently by the European Court of Human Rights in 2002.\n\nIn 2008, multiple sclerosis sufferer Debbie Purdy took her case to the House of Lords for clarification on whether her husband would face prosecution on returning from Switzerland, should he help her to travel there for an assisted death. She won, and the Director of Public Prosecutions clarified the likelihood of prosecution in this instance in 2009.\n\nIn 2012 a man with locked-in syndrome, Tony Nicklinson, applied to the High Court for the right for a medically assisted death. His case was rejected and he decided to end his life via starvation shortly afterwards. His wife ultimately took his case to the Supreme Court, in R (Nicklinson) v Ministry of Justice, where it was rejected in 2014. The judges did rule however that they have the authority to declare the parliamentary blanket ban on assisted suicide to be incompatible with human rights law.\n\nIn 2014, the Director of Public Prosecutions further clarified the likelihood of prosecution against medical professionals. Previously, they were more likely to face assisted suicide prosecution due to their role as care givers. The DPP clarified that only those medical professionals directly involved in providing care to the concerned patient would be more likely to face prosecution. It was said that the clarification was made at the request of the Supreme Court. In 2015, the clarification was subsequently challenged in the High Court, where is was argued that the DPP was making laws as opposed to applying them. The High Court rejected the challenge against the DPP's clarifications, and the Court of Appeal subsequently denied a request to challenge the High Court's decision.\n\nIn 2017, retired lecturer Noel Conway brought his case to the High Court for the right for a medically assisted death. He has motor neurone disease and is terminally ill. His case was dismissed by the High Court, by the Court of Appeal in 2018, and ultimately by the Supreme Court at the end of 2018.\n\nAlso in 2017, a man known as \"Omid T\" with multiple system atrophy brought a case to the High Court for the right to a medically assisted death. His case is different from Noel Conway's in that he is not terminally ill. His case is currently in progress. In October 2018 Omid ended his life in Switzerland.\n\nA 2015 Populus poll found broad public support for the introduction of assisted dying laws in the United Kingdom. 82% of people supported it, including 86% of people with disabilities.\n\nAnother poll showed that 54% of British General Practitioners are either supportive or neutral towards the introduction of assisted dying laws. A similar 2017 poll on Doctors.net.uk published in the BMJ said that 55% of doctors would support it. In contrast the BMA, which represents doctors in the UK, opposes it, although from June 2005 to June 2006 they took a neutral position.\n\n() = Birth to death dates\n\nNoel Conway is a retired lecturer from Shrewsbury, England. In 2014, he was diagnosed with motor neurone disease and wants the right to an assisted death.\n\nAssisted suicide is currently illegal in the United Kingdom, and doctors found to be assisting a suicide can be jailed for up to 14 years, under the Suicide Act 1961. Mr Conway challenged this law in the High Court in 2017 on the grounds of human rights, claiming that the law against assisted suicide in the United Kingdom interferes with his \"right to respect for private and family life\", protected under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. His case was supported by Dignity in Dying. On 5 October 2017 the High Court ruled against him.\n\nMr Conway subsequently took his case to the Court of Appeal, which was heard in May 2018. Three judges rejected his case on 27 June 2018. The court stated that parliament is better placed to rule on the issue and concerns were raised over whether the safeguards proposed by Mr Conway were adequate to protect vulnerable people.\n\nFollowing the decision in the Court of Appeal, Mr Conway announced his intention to take his case to the Supreme Court. This was the first time since 2014 the Supreme Court has considered a case of assisted dying, when they reviewed the case of Tony Nicklinson posthumously. Although Mr Nicklinson's case was ultimately rejected, some statements by the Justices were seen as positive by assisted dying campaigners. However, on 27 November 2018 the Supreme Court rejected the possibility of a full hearing for Mr Conway's case.\n\nIn addition, the following organisations advocate legalising assisted dying or euthanasia:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "594710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=594710", "title": "Bill Barilko", "text": "Bill Barilko\n\nWilliam \"Bashin' Bill\" Barilko (March 25, 1927 – ) was a Canadian ice hockey player who played his entire National Hockey League career for the Toronto Maple Leafs.\n\nBarilko was of Ukrainian descent and had a brother, Alex, and sister, Anne.\n\nIn February 1947, Bill Barilko was called up to the Toronto Maple Leafs from the PCHL's Hollywood Wolves and played for Toronto until his death. He was assigned sweater #21 when he debuted for the Leafs. He changed to #19 for the 1948-49 and 1949-50 seasons. The #5 (which was retired by the Leafs) was worn by Barilko for only one season, 1950-51. During that span of five seasons, Barilko and the Toronto Maple Leafs were Stanley Cup champions on four occasions: 1947, 1948, 1949, 1951. The last goal scored by Barilko was in overtime against the Montreal Canadiens' netminder Gerry McNeil. This goal, in Game 5 of the 1951 Stanley Cup Final (April 21, 1951) won the Leafs the Cup.\n\nOn August 26, 1951, Barilko joined his dentist, Henry Hudson, on a flight aboard Hudson's Fairchild 24 floatplane to Rupert House in northern Quebec for a weekend fishing trip. On the return trip to Porcupine Lake, the single-engine plane disappeared and its passengers remained missing. Eleven years later, on June 6, 1962, helicopter pilot Ron Boyd discovered the wreckage of the plane about north of Cochrane, Ontario, about 56 kilometres (35 miles) off course. The cause of the crash was deemed to have been a combination of pilot inexperience, poor weather and overloaded cargo. Notably, the Maple Leafs won the Stanley Cup that year, after not winning it during the eleven years that he was missing.\n\nBarilko is buried in Timmins, Ontario, Canada, at the Timmins Memorial Cemetery.\n\nThe 1992 song \"Fifty Mission Cap\" by The Tragically Hip is about Barilko's death and the Leafs' subsequent Stanley Cup drought. The song has been credited as singlehandedly reviving Barilko's fame after he had lapsed into semi-obscurity; the song remains a staple part of the Leafs' warm-up playlist at every home game, and the Leafs have a framed, handwritten copy of Gord Downie's lyrics to the song in their private players' lounge. Whenever the band played the Air Canada Centre, Barilko's retired-number banner was always left in place during the concert, and when Downie died on October 17, 2017, the team incorporated Barilko's banner into its Downie tribute.\n\nBarilko played in the 1947, 1948 and 1949 NHL All-Star Game, scoring a goal in the 1949 game.\n\nBarilko won four Stanley Cups with the Maple Leafs in 1947, 1948, 1949, and 1951.\n\nUntil October 15, 2016, Barilko's #5 was one of only two numbers retired by the Maple Leafs (Ace Bailey's #6 was the other).\n\nBarilko's story was published in the 1988 book \"Overtime, Overdue: The Bill Barilko Story\", by John Melady, and the 2004 book \"Barilko — Without A Trace\", by Kevin Shea.\n\nIn 2017, TSN aired the short documentary film \"The Mission\", profiling a project to recover the remaining wreckage of Barilko's plane; the film took its title from \"Fifty Mission Cap\", and it thematically touched on the song's role in Barilko's story. The film received a Canadian Screen Award nomination for Best Sports Feature Segment at the 6th Canadian Screen Awards in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39836151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39836151", "title": "Brit rechitzah", "text": "Brit rechitzah\n\nBrit Rechitzah (covenant of washing) is an alternative ceremony to Brit milah performed by progressive Jews who are opposed to circumcision as a blood ritual. It is often a part of the liturgy of ceremonies such as \"brit shalom\" ('covenant of peace') or \"brit b'lee milah\" ('covenant without cutting'). Those who perform it include rabbis in the Reform, Conservative, Renewal, and Reconstructionist movements of Judaism.\n\nRechitzah involves the washing of the baby's feet and has its origins in an account in Genesis where Abraham washes the feet of angels who appear as strangers to visit him. This is thought of as a way of welcoming a Jewish boy into the faith in a peaceful way.\n\nMoshe Rothenberg has developed Jewish liturgy that includes Rechitzah and has popularized this Jewish welcoming ritual.\n\nProfessor Michael S. Kimmel's account of Rechitzah at his son's \"brit shalom\" ceremony:\n\n\"Then it was the moment for which we had all carefully prepared, about which we had endlessly talked, debated, argued, discussed. We took a pitcher of water and a bowl to the door of the house. Amy and I carried Zachary over to the threshold. With one hand I held his little body and with the other held his tiny legs over the bowl. Amy poured some water over his feet and rubbed it in. Then she held him and I did the same. Throughout, the mohel chanted in prayer. And in that way, we welcomed Zachary into our home and into our lives.\"\n\n\"We welcomed Zachary into our family on that morning without a circumcision. We decided that we want him to live in a world without violence, so we welcomed him without violence. We decided that we want him to live in a world in which he is free to experience the fullness of the pleasures of his body, so we welcomed him with all his fleshy nerves intact. And we decided that we want him to live in a world in which male entitlement is a waning memory, and in which women and men are seen--in both ritual and in reality--as full equals and partners. So we welcomed him equally, his mother and I, in the time-honored way that desert cultures have always welcomed strangers to their tents: We washed his feet.\"\n"}
{"id": "1705132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1705132", "title": "Captain D'Agoust", "text": "Captain D'Agoust\n\nCaptain D'Agoust was an officer of the Swiss Guards, described by Thomas Carlyle in his classic recounting of the French Revolution, as a \"cast-iron\" individual. On 4 May 1788, fourteen months before the Revolution, the captain, acting on the order of the Court of Versailles, marched the Parliament of Paris out of the Palais de Justice and removed the key from the premises. The event is considered one of the key mileposts on the road to the Revolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "54452873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54452873", "title": "Chaira Borderslee", "text": "Chaira Borderslee\n\nChaira Borderslee (born 1975, in Alkmaar) is a Dutch singer, actress and dancer.\n\nBorderslee started singing on when she was five. She sang in the Antillean children's choir Zjozjoli, in which they made albums and children's films. She studied at the Nel Roos Ballet Academy and then followed the premiere and higher professional education training Showmusical at the Amsterdam Dance Academy Lucia Marthas. She grew up in Heiloo.\n\nDuring her pre-tertiary education, Borderslee was seen as a singer and dancer in many well-known television programmes such as \"The Voice of Holland\" and \"The Next Pop Talent\", by Joop van den Ende and John de Mol, in which she performed with celebrities like Barry White. In addition to her high school education, Borderslee also performed vocal studio work on the R&B duo Unknown. Later she was asked to sing at the Dutch-language R&B project Vogelvrij. With this ensemble they recorded an album, two singles and two video clips.\n\nIn her graduation year, she made the transition to musical and played in, among others, \"West Side Story\", \"Miss Saigon\", \"Fame\", \"Aida\", \"Hair\" and \"Tarzan\". In \"Aida\" and \"Hair\" she performed key roles.\n\nIn 2017 she became a naked partner in the celebrity version of \"Adam Zkt. Eva\".\n"}
{"id": "30856926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30856926", "title": "Chemical defense", "text": "Chemical defense\n\nChemical defense is a life history strategy employed by many organisms to avoid consumption by producing toxic or repellent metabolites. The production of defensive chemicals occurs in plants, fungi, and bacteria, as well as invertebrate and vertebrate animals. The class of chemicals produced by organisms that are considered defensive may be considered in a strict sense to only apply to those aiding an organism in escaping herbivory or predation. However, the distinction between types of chemical interaction is subjective and defensive chemicals may also be considered to protect against reduced fitness by pests, parasites, and competitors. Many chemicals used for defensive purposes are secondary metabolites derived from primary metabolites which serve a physiological purpose in the organism. Secondary metabolites produced by plants are consumed and sequestered by a variety of arthropods and, in turn, toxins found in some amphibians, snakes, and even birds can be traced back to arthropod prey. There are a variety of special cases for considering mammalian antipredatory adaptations as chemical defenses as well.\n\nBacteria of the genera \"Chromobacterium\", \"Janthinobacterium\", and \"Pseudoalteromonas\" produce a toxic secondary metabolite, violacein, to deter protozoan predation. Violacein is released when bacteria are consumed, killing the protozoan. Another bacteria, \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\", aggregates into quorum sensing biofilms which may aid the coordinated release of toxins to protect against predation by protozoans. Flagellates were allowed to grow and were present in a biofilm of \"P. aeruginosa\" grown for three days, but no flagellates were detected after seven days. This suggests that concentrated and coordinated release of extracellular toxins by biofilms has a greater effect than unicellular excretions. Bacterial growth is inhibited not only by bacterial toxins, but also by secondary metabolites produced by fungi as well. The most well-known of these, first discovered and published by Alexander Fleming in 1929, described the antibacterial properties of a \"mould juice\" isolated from \"Penicillium notatum\". He named the substance penicillin, and it became the world's first broad-spectrum antibiotic. Many fungi are either pathogenic saprophytic, or live within plants without harming them as endophytes, and many of these have been documented to produce chemicals with antagonistic effects against a variety of organisms, including fungi, bacteria, and protozoa. Studies of coprophilous fungi have found antifungal agents which reduce the fitness of competing fungi. In addition, sclerotia of \"Aspergillus flavus\" contained a number of previously unknown aflavinines which were much more effective at reducing predation by the fungivorous beetle, \"Carpophilus hemipterus\", than aflatoxins which \"A. flavus\" also produced and it has been hypothesized that ergot alkaloids, mycotoxins produced by \"Claviceps purpurea\", may have evolved to discourage herbivory of the host plant.\n\nA wealth of literature exists on the defensive chemistry of secondary metabolites produced by terrestrial plants and their antagonistic effects on pests and pathogens, likely owing to the fact that human society depends upon large-scale agricultural production to sustain global commerce. Since the 1950s, over 200,000 secondary metabolites have been documented in plants. These compounds serve a variety of physiological and allelochemical purposes, and provide a sufficient stock for the evolution of defensive chemicals. Examples of common secondary metabolites used as chemical defenses by plants include alkaloids, phenols, and terpenes. Defensive chemicals used to avoid consumption may be broadly characterized as either toxins or substances reducing the digestive capacity of herbivores. Although toxins are defined in a broad sense as any substance produced by an organism that reduces the fitness of another, in a more specific sense toxins are substances which directly affect and diminish the functioning of certain metabolic pathways. Toxins are minor constituents (<2% dry weight), active in small concentrations, and more present in flowers and young leaves. On the other hand, indigestible compounds make up to 60% dry weight of tissue and are predominately found in mature, woody species. Many alkaloids, pyrethrins, and phenols are toxins. Tannins are major inhibitors of digestion and are polyphenolic compounds with large molecular weights. Lignin and cellulose are important structural elements in plants and are also usually highly indigestible. Tannins are also toxic against pathogenic fungi at natural concentrations in a variety of woody tissues. Not only useful as deterrents to pathogens or consumers, some of the chemicals produced by plants are effective in inhibiting competitors as well. Two separate shrub communities in the California chapparal were found to produce phenolic compounds and volatile terpenes which accumulated in soil and prevented various herbs from growing near the shrubs. Other plants were only observed to grow when fire removed shrubs, but herbs subsequently died off after shrubs returned. Although the focus has been on broad-scale patterns in terrestrial plants, Paul and Fenical in 1986 demonstrated a variety of secondary metabolites in marine algae which prevented feeding or induced mortality in bacteria, fungi, echinoderms, fishes, and gastropods. In nature, pests are a severe problem to plant communities as well, leading to the co-evolution of plant chemical defenses and herbivore metabolic strategies to detoxify their plant food. A variety of invertebrates consume plants, but insects have received a majority of the attention. Insects are pervasive agricultural pests and sometimes occur in such high densities that they can strip fields of crops.\n\nMany insects are distasteful to predators and excrete irritants or secrete poisonous compounds that cause illness or death when ingested. Secondary metabolites obtained from plant food may also be sequestered by insects and used in the production of their own toxins. One of the more well-known examples of this is the monarch butterfly, which sequesters poison obtained from the miilkweed plant. Among the most successful insect orders employing this strategy are beetles (Coleoptera), grasshoppers (Orthoptera), and moths and butterflies (Lepidoptera). Insects also biosynthesize unique toxins, and while sequestration of toxins from food sources is claimed to be the energetically favorable strategy, this has been contested. Passion-vine associated butterflies in the tribe Heliconiini (sub-family Heliconiinae) either sequester or synthesize \"de novo\" defensive chemicals, but moths in the genus \"Zygaena\" (family Zygaenidae) have evolved the ability to either synthesize or sequester their defensive chemicals through convergence. Some coleopterans sequester secondary metabolites to be used as defensive chemicals but most biosynthesize their own \"de novo\". Anatomical structures have developed to store these substances, and some are circulated in the hemolyph and released associated with a behavior called reflex bleeding.\n\nVertebrates can also biosynthesize defensive chemicals or sequester them from plants or prey. Sequestered compounds have been observed in frogs, natricine snakes, and two genera of birds, \"Pitohui\" and \"Ifrita\". It is suspected that some well-known compounds such as batrachotoxins from poison frogs in the family Dendrobatidae and tetrodotoxin produced by newts and pufferfish are derived from invertebrate prey. Bufadienolides, defensive chemicals produced by toads, have been found in glands of natricine snakes used for defense.\nSome mammals can emit foul smelling liquids from anal glands, such as the pangolin and some members of family Mustellidae including skunks, weasels, and polecats. Monotremes have venomous spurs used to avoid predation and slow lorises (Primates: Nycticebus) produce venom which appears to be effective at deterring both predators and parasites. It has also been demonstrated that physical contact with a slow loris (without being bitten) can cause a reaction in humans – acting as a contact poison.\n"}
{"id": "6746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6746", "title": "Constantius II", "text": "Constantius II\n\nConstantius II (; ; 7 August 317 – 3 November 361) was Roman Emperor from 337 to 361. His reign saw constant warfare on the borders against the Sasanian Empire and Germanic peoples, while internally the Roman Empire went through repeated civil wars and usurpations, culminating in Constantius' overthrow as emperor by his cousin Julian. His religious policies inflamed domestic conflicts that would continue after his death.\n\nThe second son of Constantine I and Fausta, Constantius was made \"Caesar\" by his father in 324. He led the Roman army in war against the Sasanian Empire in 336. A year later, Constantine I died, and Constantius became \"Augustus\" with his brothers Constantine II and Constans. He promptly oversaw the massacre of eight of his relatives, consolidating his hold on power. The brothers divided the empire among themselves, with Constantius receiving the eastern provinces. In 340, his brothers Constantine and Constans clashed over the western provinces of the empire. The resulting conflict left Constantine dead and Constans as ruler of the west. The war against the Sasanians continued, with Constantius losing a major battle at Singara in 344. In 350, Constans was overthrown and assassinated in 350 by the usurper Magnentius. \n\nUnwilling to accept Magnentius as co-ruler, Constantius waged a civil war against the usurper, defeating him at the battles of Mursa Major in 351 and Mons Seleucus in 353. Magnentius committed suicide after the latter battle, leaving Constantius as sole ruler of the empire. In 351, Constantius elevated his cousin Constantius Gallus to the subordinate rank of \"Caesar\" to rule in the east, but had him executed three years later after receiving scathing reports of his violent and corrupt nature. Shortly thereafter, in 355, Constantius promoted his last surviving cousin, Gallus' younger half-brother Julian, to the rank of \"Caesar\".\n\nAs emperor, Constantius promoted Arian Christianity, persecuted pagans by banning sacrifices and closing pagan temples and issued laws discriminating against Jews. His military campaigns against Germanic tribes were successful: he defeated the Alamanni in 354 and campaigned across the Danube against the Quadi and Sarmatians in 357. The war against the Sasanians, which had been in a lull since 350, erupted with renewed intensity in 359 and Constantius traveled to the east in 360 to restore stability after the loss of several border fortresses to the Sasanians. However, Julian claimed the rank of Augustus in 360, leading to war between the two after Constantius' attempts to convince Julian to back down failed. No battle was fought, as Constantius became ill and died of fever on 3 November 361 in Mopsuestia, naming Julian as his rightful successor before his death.\n\nConstantius was born in 317 at Sirmium, Pannonia. He was the third son of Constantine the Great, and second by his second wife Fausta, the daughter of Maximian. Constantius was made Caesar by his father on 13 November 324. \nIn 336, religious unrest in Armenia and tense relations between Constantine and king Shapur II caused war to break out between Rome and Sassanid Persia. Though he made initial preparations for the war, Constantine fell ill and sent Constantius east to take command of the eastern frontier. Before Constantius arrived, the Persian general Narses, who was possibly the king's brother, overran Mesopotamia and captured Amida. Constantius promptly attacked Narses, and after suffering minor setbacks defeated and killed Narses at the Battle of Narasara. Constantius captured Amida and initiated a major refortification of the city, enhancing the city's circuit walls and constructing large towers. He also built a new stronghold in the hinterland nearby, naming it \"Antinopolis\".\n\nIn early 337, Constantius hurried to Constantinople after receiving news that his father was near death. After Constantine died, Constantius buried him with lavish ceremony in the Church of the Holy Apostles. Soon after his father's death Constantius supposedly ordered a massacre of his relatives descended from the second marriage of his paternal grandfather Constantius Chlorus, though the details are unclear. Eutropius, writing between 350 and 370, states that Constantius merely sanctioned “\"the act, rather than commanding it\"”. The massacre killed two of Constantius' uncles and six of his cousins, including Hannibalianus and Dalmatius, rulers of Pontus and Moesia respectively. The massacre left Constantius, his older brother Constantine II, his younger brother Constans, and three cousins Gallus, Julian and Nepotianus as the only surviving male relatives of Constantine the Great.\n\nSoon after, Constantius met his brothers in Pannonia at Sirmium to formalize the partition of the empire. Constantius received the eastern provinces, including Constantinople, Thrace, Asia Minor, Syria, Egypt, and Cyrenaica; Constantine received Britannia, Gaul, Hispania, and Mauretania; and Constans, initially under the supervision of Constantine II, received Italy, Africa, Illyricum, Pannonia, Macedonia, and Achaea.\n\nConstantius then hurried east to Antioch to resume the war with Persia. While Constantius was away from the eastern frontier in early 337, King Shapur II assembled a large army, which included war elephants, and launched an attack on Roman territory, laying waste to Mesopotamia and putting the city of Nisibis under siege. Despite initial success, Shapur lifted his siege after his army missed an opportunity to exploit a collapsed wall. When Constantius learned of Shapur's withdrawal from Roman territory, he prepared his army for a counter-attack.\n\nConstantius repeatedly defended the eastern border against invasions by the aggressive Sassanid Empire under Shapur. These conflicts were mainly limited to Sassanid sieges of the major fortresses of Roman Mesopotamia, including Nisibis (Nusaybin), Singara, and Amida (Diyarbakir). Although Shapur seems to have been victorious in most of these confrontations, the Sassanids were able to achieve little. However, the Romans won a decisive victory at the Battle of Narasara, killing Shapur's brother, Narses. Ultimately, Constantius was able to push back the invasion, and Shapur failed to make any significant gains.\n\nMeanwhile, Constantine II desired to retain control of Constans' realm, leading the brothers into open conflict. Constantine was killed in 340 near Aquileia during an ambush. As a result, Constans took control of his deceased brother’s realms and became sole ruler of the Western two-thirds of the empire. This division lasted until 350, when Constans was assassinated by forces loyal to the usurper Magnentius.\n\nAs the only surviving son of Constantine the Great, Constantius felt that the position of emperor was his alone, and he determined to march west to fight the usurper, Magnentius. However, feeling that the east still required some sort of imperial presence, he elevated his cousin Constantius Gallus to Caesar of the eastern provinces. As an extra measure to ensure the loyalty of his cousin, he married the elder of his two sisters, Constantina, to him.\n\nBefore facing Magnentius, Constantius first came to terms with Vetranio, a loyal general in Illyricum who had recently been acclaimed emperor by his soldiers. Vetranio immediately sent letters to Constantius pledging his loyalty, which Constantius may have accepted simply in order to stop Magnentius from gaining more support. These events may have been spurred by the action of Constantina, who had since traveled east to marry Gallus. Constantius subsequently sent Vetranio the imperial diadem and acknowledged the general‘s new position as \"Augustus\". However, when Constantius arrived, Vetranio willingly resigned his position and accepted Constantius’ offer of a comfortable retirement in Bithynia.\n\nIn 351, Constantius clashed with Magnentius in Pannonia with a large army. The ensuing Battle of Mursa Major was one of the largest and bloodiest battles ever between two Roman armies. The result was a victory for Constantius, but a costly one. Magnentius survived the battle and, determined to fight on, withdrew into northern Italy. Rather than pursuing his opponent, however, Constantius turned his attention to securing the Danubian border, where he spent the early months of 352 campaigning against the Sarmatians along the middle Danube. After achieving his aims, Constantius advanced on Magnentius in Italy. This action led the cities of Italy to switch their allegiance to him and eject the usurper's garrisons. Again, Magnentius withdrew, this time to southern Gaul.\n\nIn 353, Constantius and Magnentius met for the final time at the Battle of Mons Seleucus in southern Gaul, and again Constantius emerged the victor. Magnentius, realizing the futility of continuing his position, committed suicide on 10 August 353.\n\nConstantius spent much of the rest of 353 and early 354 on campaign against the Alamanni on the Danube frontier. The campaign was successful and raiding by the Alamanni ceased temporarily. In the meantime, Constantius had been receiving disturbing reports regarding the actions of his cousin Gallus. Possibly as a result of these reports, Constantius concluded a peace with the Alamanni and traveled to Mediolanum (Milan).\n\nIn Mediolanum, Constantius first summoned Ursicinus, Gallus’ \"magister equitum\", for reasons that remain unclear. Constantius then summoned Gallus and Constantina. Although Gallus and Constantina complied with the order at first, when Constantina died in Bithynia, Gallus began to hesitate. However, after some convincing by one of Constantius’ agents, Gallus continued his journey west, passing through Constantinople and Thrace to Poetovio (Ptuj) in Pannonia.\n\nIn Poetovio, Gallus was arrested by the soldiers of Constantius under the command of Barbatio. Gallus was then moved to Pola and interrogated. Gallus claimed that it was Constantina who was to blame for all the trouble while he was in charge of the eastern provinces. This angered Constantius so greatly that he immediately ordered Gallus' execution. He soon changed his mind, however, and recanted the order. Unfortunately for Gallus, this second order was delayed by Eusebius, one of Constantius' eunuchs, and Gallus was executed.\n\nIn spite of some of the edicts issued by Constantius, he never made any attempt to disband the various Roman priestly colleges or the Vestal Virgins, he never acted against the various pagan schools, and, at times, he actually made some effort to protect paganism. In fact, he even ordered the election of a priest for Africa. Also, he remained pontifex maximus and was deified by the Roman Senate after his death. His relative moderation toward paganism is reflected by the fact that it was over twenty years after his death, during the reign of Gratian, that any pagan senator protested his treatment of their religion.\n\nPagan-related edicts issued by Constantius (by himself or with others) included:\n\nAlthough often considered an Arian, Constantius ultimately preferred a third, compromise version that lay somewhere in between Arianism and the Nicene Creed, retrospectively called Semi-Arianism. During his reign he attempted to mold the Christian church to follow this compromise position, convening several Christian councils. The most notable of these were the Council of Rimini and its twin at Seleucia, which met in 359 and 360 respectively. \"Unfortunately for his memory the theologians whose advice he took were ultimately discredited and the malcontents whom he pressed to conform emerged victorious,\" writes the historian A.H.M. Jones. \"The great councils of 359–60 are therefore not reckoned ecumenical in the tradition of the church, and Constantius II is not remembered as a restorer of unity, but as a heretic who arbitrarily imposed his will on the church.\"\n\nChristian-related edicts issued by Constantius (by himself or with others) included:\n\nJudaism faced some severe restrictions under Constantius, who seems to have followed an anti-Jewish policy in line with that of his father. Early in his reign, Constantius issued a double edict in concert with his brothers limiting the ownership of slaves by Jewish people and banning marriages between Jews and Christian women. A later edict issued by Constantius after becoming sole emperor decreed that a person who was proven to have converted from Christianity to Judaism would have all of his property confiscated by the state. However, Constantius' actions in this regard may not have been so much to do with Jewish religion as with Jewish business—apparently, privately owned Jewish businesses were often in competition with state-owned businesses. As a result, Constantius may have sought to provide an advantage to state-owned businesses by limiting the skilled workers and slaves available to Jewish businesses.\n\nJew-related edicts issued by Constantius (by himself or with others) included:\n\nOn 11 August 355, the magister militum Claudius Silvanus revolted in Gaul. Silvanus had surrendered to Constantius after the Battle of Mursa Major. Constantius had made him magister militum in 353 with the purpose of blocking the German threats, a feat that Silvanus achieved by bribing the German tribes with the money he had collected. A plot organized by members of Constantius' court led the emperor to recall Silvanus. After Silvanus revolted, he received a letter from Constantius recalling him to Milan, but which made no reference to the revolt. Ursicinus, who was meant to replace Silvanus, bribed some troops, and Silvanus was killed.\n\nConstantius realised that too many threats still faced the Empire, however, and he could not possibly handle all of them by himself. So on 6 November 355, he elevated his last remaining male relative, Julian, to the rank of Caesar. A few days later, Julian was married to Helena, the last surviving sister of Constantius. Constantius soon sent Julian off to Gaul.\n\nConstantius spent the next few years overseeing affairs in the western part of the empire primarily from his base at Mediolanum. In 357 he visited Rome for the only time in his life. The same year, he forced Sarmatian and Quadi invaders out of Pannonia and Moesia Inferior, then led a successful counter-attack across the Danube.\n\nIn the winter of 357–58, Constantius received ambassadors from Shapur II who demanded that Rome restore the lands surrendered by Narseh. Despite rejecting these terms, Constantius tried to avert war with the Sassanid Empire by sending two embassies to Shapur II. Shapur II nevertheless launched another invasion of Roman Mesopotamia. In 360, when news reached Constantius that Shapur II had destroyed Singara, and taken Kiphas (Hasankeyf), Amida, and Ad Tigris (Cizre), he decided to travel east to face the re-emergent threat.\n\nIn the meantime, Julian had won some victories against the Alamanni, who had once again invaded Roman Gaul. However, when Constantius requested reinforcements from Julian’s army for the eastern campaign, the Gallic legions revolted and proclaimed Julian \"Augustus\".\n\nOn account of the immediate Sassanid threat, Constantius was unable to directly respond to his cousin’s usurpation, other than by sending missives in which he tried to convince Julian to resign the title of \"Augustus\" and be satisfied with that of \"Caesar\". By 361, Constantius saw no alternative but to face the usurper with force, and yet the threat of the Sassanids remained. Constantius had already spent part of early 361 unsuccessfully attempting to re-take the fortress of Ad Tigris. After a time he had withdrawn to Antioch to regroup and prepare for a confrontation with Shapur II. The campaigns of the previous year had inflicted heavy losses on the Sassanids, however, and they did not attempt another round of campaigns that year. This temporary respite in hostilities allowed Constantius to turn his full attention to facing Julian.\n\nConstantius immediately gathered his forces and set off west. However, by the time he reached Mopsuestia in Cilicia, it was clear that he was fatally ill and would not survive to face Julian. Apparently, realising his death was near, Constantius had himself baptised by Euzoius, the Semi-Arian bishop of Antioch, and then declared that Julian was his rightful successor. Constantius II died of fever on 3 November 361.\n\nConstantius II was married three times:\n\nFirst to a daughter of his half-uncle Julius Constantius, whose name is unknown. She was a full-sister of Gallus and a half-sister of Julian. She died c. 352/3.\n\nSecond, to Eusebia, a woman of Macedonian origin, originally from the city of Thessaloniki, whom Constantius married before his defeat of Magnentius in 353. She died in 360.\n\nThird and lastly, in 360, to Faustina, who gave birth to Constantius' only child, a posthumous daughter named Flavia Maxima Constantia, who later married Emperor Gratian.\n\nConstantius II is a particularly difficult figure to judge properly due to the hostility of most sources toward him. A. H. M. Jones writes that Constantius \"appears in the pages of Ammianus as a conscientious emperor but a vain and stupid man, an easy prey to flatterers. He was timid and suspicious, and interested persons could easily play on his fears for their own advantage.\" However, Kent and M. and A. Hirmer suggest that Constantius \"has suffered at the hands of unsympathetic authors, ecclesiastical and civil alike. To orthodox churchmen he was a bigoted supporter of the Arian heresy, to Julian the Apostate and the many who have subsequently taken his part he was a murderer, a tyrant and inept as a ruler\". They go on to add, \"Most contemporaries seem in fact to have held him in high esteem, and he certainly inspired loyalty in a way his brother could not\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44226684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44226684", "title": "Death of Joan Robinson Hill", "text": "Death of Joan Robinson Hill\n\nThe death of Joan Robinson Hill at 38 years old led to her husband, John Hill, becoming the first person to be indicted by the State of Texas on the charge of murder by omission. The case precipitated a series of events that included the 1972 murder of John Hill and, two years later, the fatal police shooting of the man accused of that murder.\n\nShe died following a short illness on March 19, 1969. Autopsy examinations failed to determine a cause of death beyond an infection from an unknown source. Her father, Ash Robinson, subsequently accused Hill of poisoning his daughter, and petitioned the district attorney to prosecute her husband for murder. Hill's murder trial was held in February 1971 but ended in a mistrial. As a second trial was approaching, Hill was gunned down by an intruder at his home. A suspect, Bobby Wayne Vandiver, was arrested and indicted for the murder, but was killed in a shootout with police before his trial. Two other suspects, Marcia McKittrick and Lilla Paulus, were convicted as accomplices to Hill's murder and served time in prison.\n\nThe case was the subject of Thomas Thompson's 1976 book \"Blood and Money\" and the 1981 made-for-television film \"Murder in Texas\".\n\nOn September 28, 1957, Joan Robinson married Dr. John Hill, described by the \"Houston Chronicle\" as \"one of the city's leading plastic surgeons\". The couple had a son, Robert Ashton \"Boot\" Hill, born on June 14, 1960.\nJohn and Joan Hill became a regular part of Houston's social scene, but largely led separate lives. Joan focused on her equestrian career while John devoted his spare time to performing and listening to music.\n\nBy 1968, the Hills had begun to have significant conflicts in their marriage. After beginning an extramarital affair with a woman named Ann Kurth in the fall of 1968, Hill left his wife and began divorce proceedings against her, but withdrew the petition when the couple reconciled shortly before Christmas of that year. John continued to see Kurth after returning to live with his wife. Robinson Hill died on March 19, 1969, at Sharpstown General Hospital after contracting an illness that was initially thought to be influenza. Her symptoms included fever, vomiting, nausea, and diarrhea. She was first treated at home by her husband, but admitted to hospital when her condition worsened.\n\nRobinson Hill died on March 19, 1969, at Sharpstown General Hospital shortly after contracting an illness that was initially thought to be influenza.\n\nUpon being told that his wife was dead, John Hill's cries filled the small hospital. Patients on the second floor of the building came to the doors of their rooms in an effort to learn what had happened. Hill managed to ask someone to call a friend and his wife, who lived nearby. Jim Oates was a doctor and a fellow musician; his wife, Dottie, was a nurse. The couple had just seen the Hills five days earlier at Houston's annual wild game dinner. Dottie Oates did not at first recognize Joan Robinson Hill, due to her edema and discoloration from ruptured superficial blood vessels.\n\nTexas state law at the time required an autopsy by the county coroner for anyone who died in a hospital within twenty-four hours of admission. The law stated that the autopsy must be performed and a cause of death determined before any embalming or burial could take place, and provided criminal penalties for its breach. Drs. Bertinot and Lanza, who had attended Robinson Hill, were summoned back to the hospital when she died. Dr. Bertinot spoke to John Hill about the legal need for an autopsy and called the hospital's pathologist to start the process. Hill asked Jim Oates to call a local funeral home to claim Robinson Hill's body. Less than four hours after her death, the funeral home removed Robinson Hill's body from the hospital.\n\nWithin an hour after moving the body from Sharpstown General, the funeral home began the process of embalming Robinson Hill's body. The hospital's pathologist, Dr. Arthur Morse, arrived at the funeral home at 10 a.m. to carry out the autopsy, only to find that the body had already been embalmed. Dr. Morse did not have the ability to take blood samples, since Robinson Hill's blood had been replaced by the embalming fluid. Morse concluded his autopsy at 11:30 a.m. without finding any signs of what caused Robinson Hill's death aside from a maroon coloration of her pancreas and offered an opinion that she may have died from pancreatitis.\n\nOn Thursday, March 20, 1969, Diane Settegast and Eunice Woolen, who stayed with the Hills as house guests a week before Joan's death, returned to Houston to attend Robinson Hill's funeral, and Settegast called on Hill to pay her respects. On arriving at the house she found him upstairs in the music room with his son and some friends, watching a Laurel and Hardy film and laughing. Surprised that he did not appear to be grieving, she began to leave in disgust, but was stopped by Hill before she reached the front door. During the ensuing conversation, she expressed disbelief at the speed of her friend's death, and asked Hill why he had not been able to help her. Hill replied that he wanted to take his wife to hospital but she refused to go, saying \"You know what she was like about hospitals\". Settegast became suspicious as she did not recognize Hill's observation of her friend, and voiced her concerns to Ash Robinson. Since receiving Dr. Morse's opinion that his daughter had died from pancreatitis, Robinson had been consulting doctors on the matter, who had advised him that this was an unlikely cause of death. On the morning of Friday, March 21, the day of Joan Robinson Hill's funeral, Ash Robinson visited the office of Assistant District Attorney I. D. McMaster, where he accused John Hill of killing his wife, telling McMaster of the circumstances surrounding her death and autopsy. After listening to Robinson's story, McMaster said that he would look into it, then telephoned Harris County Medical Examiner Joseph Jachimczyk, telling him to go to the funeral home, examine the body before the funeral, and stop the service if necessary. Jachimczyk then telephoned two people–the administrator of Sharpstown Hospital, and Morse. On hearing of the circumstances in which Morse had performed his autopsy, he ordered the pathologist to hand over blood and urine specimens taken from Robinson Hill, and his preliminary report. Jachimczyk felt there was enough material for him to perform his own autopsy. He then drove to the funeral home to view the body, doing so as mourners began to arrive for the service, but saw no need to halt proceedings.\n\nWhile awaiting the medical examiner's results, Ash Robinson continued to gather evidence against his son-in-law, assembling a team of respected doctors at his home to discuss the case. These included his general practitioner, Ed Gouldin, and Grady Hallman. Robinson also took statements from people connected with his daughter, including Settegast, Woolen, and the Hill's household employees Archie and Effie Green. Jachimczyk delivered his report on the second autopsy at the end of March, ruling out any poisoning, and concluding, \"it is my opinion based upon a reasonable probability that the cause of death is due to acute focal hepatitis, probably viral in origin.\" On reading the report, McMaster felt there was no case, but Robinson refused to believe that no crime had been committed. He hired lawyer Frank Briscoe, a former Harris County District Attorney who had recently left office. As part of his investigation, Briscoe spoke to Morse. He asked the pathologist whether it would be possible to inject someone with hepatitis. Morse felt this an unlikely scenario, but offered the lawyer an alternative opinion on how Robinson Hill may have contracted the virus. He said that he had been told that in the days prior to her death Robinson Hill had eaten both shellfish and snails, and Morse felt one of these may have caused her to contract hepatitis. Robinson then petitioned his son-in-law to give permission for Joan's body to be exhumed for another autopsy, but Hill refused.\n\nAsh Robinson sought to hire \"the best pathologist in the United States\" to conduct another autopsy on his daughter. Robinson's search led him to Dr. Milton Helpern, who was the chief medical examiner for New York City at the time. Helpern agreed to come to Houston to examine Robinson Hill's body five months after her death. An autopsy was also requested by a Harris County grand jury investigating the death of Robinson Hill. That autopsy was performed by a team of ten doctors led by Dr. Robert Bucklin, who was then the medical examiner for Galveston County, and including Dr. Helpern, who was deputized as an acting Harris County medical examiner.\n\nAs soon as the casket was opened, Helpern found pieces of dried mud in it, indicating that the casket had been opened after Robinson Hill was originally buried. When questioned, the funeral home informed the medical team present at the autopsy that John Hill had obtained an order to disinter his wife three days after her funeral. Hill claimed he wanted to retrieve a piece of jewelry that had been buried with her. While making the wake and funeral arrangements, Hill insisted that his wife be buried with no jewelry at all—not even her wedding ring. Helpern found nothing amiss related to the disinterment, but noted that Robinson Hill's stomach and its contents were never removed and examined at the original autopsy. The pathologist's disapproval became disbelief when he discovered that Robinson Hill's brain and heart were missing.\n\nDr. Morse then made an embarrassed admission to not returning the organs prior to burial. Morse offered that he did, however, know the whereabouts of Robinson Hill's brain—it was in the trunk of his car. The Texas pathologist retrieved the brain for Dr. Helpern's examination. Helpern thought there might be traces of meningitis, but declined to state whether he thought this was a cause of Robinson Hill's death. He examined the body of Joan Robinson Hill for seven and a half hours; Helpern then went back to New York with his tissue samples, saying he would issue a report on his findings at a later date.\n\nThe series of autopsies indicated that Robinson Hill had suffered a \"massive infection\" from an undetermined source, but because the body had been embalmed before an initial examination was conducted, an exact cause of death could not be identified. The hospital and the Harris County medical examiner initially listed Robinson Hill's cause of death as hepatitis, but there were no signs of the disease (such as jaundice) noted; medical test results were also not indicative of hepatitis. Dr. Bucklin listed Robinson Hill's cause of death as meningitis and septicemia. Following the autopsy, Joseph Jachimczyk issued a fresh report in which he observed \"It is now my opinion that Joan Robinson Hill came to her death as a result of a fulminating infectious process, the specific nature of which is no longer determinable.\" He went on to recommend that the matter be investigated by a grand jury. Dr. Milton Helpern did not issue his report until April 1970, more than a year after the death of Robinson Hill. Helpern's report noted that John Hill's treatment of his wife at home and the delay in seeking specialized medical attention at a hospital were factors in the death of Robinson Hill.\n\nWhen John Hill filed his wife's last will and testament shortly after her death, Ash Robinson quickly produced another will, which he said had been written at the time Joan was separated from Hill. The will made Robinson her executor, left everything to him, and asked that Robinson and his wife have custody of the Hills' son, Robert. It was signed by two of Robinson's friends, one a former employee. Hill believed the will to be a forgery and hired three handwriting experts to attest to that fact. Thompson observes that Robinson Hill's signature was different to that in a previous will, and that the will had been \"clumsily typed, replete with spelling mistakes and language more likely to be used by someone imitating legal terminology\". Hill asked the District Attorney's office to investigate, but Cecil Haden, who was serving on the grand jury at the time, suggested the matter be dealt with once the issue of Robinson Hill's death had been addressed. Robert Hill contested the will in 1978, claiming that it was a forgery, but a probate jury found in favor of Robinson.\n\nAfter Robinson Hill's death, Hill married Ann Kurth in June 1969, but divorced Kurth less than a year later, shortly before he was indicted for the murder of Robinson Hill. He divorced Kurth in spite of the advice of his defense attorney, who told him that if they remained married, Kurth could not testify against him.\n\nFollowing Hill's marriage to Kurth, Ash Robinson accused his former son-in-law of poisoning his daughter, and hired a team of private detectives to keep him under surveillance. He also petitioned the District Attorney to launch a murder investigation. Frank Briscoe subsequently discussed the case with McMaster, who had worked as his junior during his time as a District Attorney. Neither man was convinced that Hill had murdered his wife, but they felt that there was enough evidence to put the matter before a grand jury. The grand jury began hearing evidence in the summer of 1969, and rumors began to circulate among the Houston medical fraternity that Hill had played a role in Robinson Hill's death. In response to the gossip, Hill contacted Clyde Wilson, a private investigator who had worked for Robinson. Wilson suggested that if Hill wished to clear his name, he should take a polygraph test. Hill decided instead to give a statement under the administration of sodium pentothal (alternatively known as truth serum) at which his own lawyer and McMaster would be present. The drug was administered at Sharpstown Hospital by anesthesiologist Dr. Richard Smith, who had occasionally assisted Hill during surgery, but who both sides felt would be a neutral party. Although Hill was deemed to have passed the examination, McMaster was suspicious that the drug had not worked properly because he felt that Hill's answers seemed too composed.\n\nThe first grand jury to examine the case retired without indicting Hill. Robinson then urged Briscoe to pressure the District Attorney to order an exhumation, then fired the lawyer when he refused, after which he retained the services of the law firm Vinson and Elkins. District Attorney Carol Vance then put the case before a second grand jury to see if they would order an exhumation. When they did, Hill hired his own lawyer, Don Fullenweider, who asked his partner, respected defense attorney Richard Haynes, to represent the doctor.\n\nIn February 1970, the case was heard by a third grand jury, on which sat Cecil Haden, a prominent Houston businessman and close friend and associate of Ash Robinson. This panel heard testimony from Ann Kurth, less than one day after she was divorced from Hill on March 12. She told them that Hill had confessed to killing his wife and had also tried to kill Kurth on three occasions, and that the physician had medicated himself with an antidote to the sodium pentothal prior to the test, a claim Richard Smith dismissed as implausible. Helpern was preparing his autopsy report as the jury neared the end of its 90-day term, but would not complete it in time for his findings to be heard. Haden suggested that Helpern present his conclusions in person. District Judge Wendell Odom agreed, and Helpern presented his findings in April 1970. In response to Helpern's presentation, Haynes suggested that Hill testify before the grand jury, but the evidence Hill gave contradicted that given by others involved in the case, and his cool and aloof manner began to convince McMaster and his fellow Assistant District Attorney, Ernie Ernst, that Hill had murdered his wife. In spite of this, they determined that there was not enough evidence to indict him. However, following some research, Ernst suggested that they could try him for failing to provide an adequate level of care, which had resulted in her death. The jury voted 10–2 to indict Hill for murder by omission, deciding that he had \"willfully, intentionally and culpably\" contributed to his wife's death because he had not given her sufficient medical help. The state of Texas had not previously indicted anyone on a charge of murder by omission.\n\nHill's murder trial began on February 15, 1971, before Judge Frederick Hooey. The case was prosecuted by McMaster and Ernst, while Hill was defended by Richard Haynes. Robinson Hill's friend and neighbor Vann Maxwell was the first witness to give evidence, and testified that Robinson Hill had said shortly before her death that she had given up on her marriage. Kurth testified against Hill, claiming that he had tried to kill her on June 30, 1969, by crashing their car into a bridge, and by injecting her with a hypodermic syringe. She also told the court that he had confessed to killing Robinson Hill. Kurth claimed to have seen three petri dishes in the bathroom of John Hill's apartment during the time Joan Robinson Hill became ill. She said they had \"something red in them\" and when she asked Hill about it, he told her he was conducting an experiment. Kurth testified that Hill was annoyed at her discovery and the next day, when she found some pastries in the apartment's refrigerator, he became annoyed again, telling her not to eat them.\nKurth said that on the night of their auto accident, Hill went into detail about how he had killed Joan Robinson Hill. She claimed that the petri dishes contained cultures grown from all forms of human waste, and that Hill had initially injected the cultures into pastries he served to his wife. When Robinson Hill fell only mildly ill from their ingestion, she asked her husband for something to cure the illness. Kurth's testimony continued by saying that Hill then added the cultures to an injectable drug which he administered to Robinson Hill. As a result of Kurth's testimony, Haynes called for a mistrial, a request to which Hooey agreed after some deliberation. In June 1971, John Hill was married for a third time, to Connie Loesby. Hill's second trial was scheduled to begin in July 1971, but at the request of the defense, it was delayed multiple times, to November 1972.\n\nOn September 24, 1972, a few weeks before the second trial was to start, Hill was shot dead by a masked gunman during a robbery at his mansion as Hill and his wife returned home from a medical conference in Las Vegas. The masked intruder forced his way into the Hills' home about a half hour before John and Connie Hill were due to arrive home. The man bound Hill's mother and son and taped their mouths with adhesive tape. When the Hills arrived, Connie rang the home's doorbell and was greeted by someone in a green mask she initially thought to be her stepson playing a joke. The intruder grabbed Connie Hill, saying \"This is a robbery.\" She was able to struggle away from him and run down the street. As she ran and called out for help, she heard shots fired. A neighbor heard her cries for help, let her in, and let her call the police. When the police and an ambulance arrived at the Hill home, they found John Hill in the foyer, face down. Standing over him was his 12-year-old son; feet and arms bound, he had managed to hop from a back room of the house. The adhesive tape had come loose from his mouth and he cried, \"They've killed my daddy.\" The ambulance attendant searched for vital signs but found none. When the body was turned over, Hill's eyes, nose and mouth were found to have been sealed shut with adhesive tape by his killer. The police noted this type of killing was prevalent in the local underworld. John Hill was beaten and shot three times: in the chest, shoulder and right arm.\n\nConnie and Robert Hill believed that Robinson Hill's father, Ash Robinson, had ordered Hill's execution, and launched a $7.6-million lawsuit against him for wrongful death. Robinson denied responsibility for the shooting, but maintained that Hill was to blame for the death of his daughter. In 1977, following a seven-week hearing, a civil jury cleared Robinson of any involvement in the death of his son-in-law.\n\nDuring the wrongful death suit against Ash Robinson, Thomas Thompson, the author of \"Blood and Money\", offered an opinion that Hill probably did not have enough medical knowledge to kill his wife without leaving any evidence. Thompson, who had observed many doctors while writing books, described plastic surgeons and orthopedists as being the \"carpenters\" of the medical world. He characterized internists and researchers as being the real thinkers of medicine, and said that Hill's interest in research applied only to the music world.\n\nHouston detectives Jerry Carpenter and Joe Gamino were called to River Oaks after a boy discovered Hill's abandoned briefcase, which had been stolen during the robbery. While searching the scene, Carpenter found a gun beneath a bush. A ballistics expert was able to determine that the bullets fired at Hill had been handmade, and as a result of this Houston police were able to trace the weapon to a doctor. When questioned as to how the weapon had found its way to River Oaks, the doctor said it had been stolen by a woman whom he described as \"a whore\". He went on to explain that he had entertained two prostitutes, who stole some money and one of his cars while he was sleeping. He had taken the gun and planned to go looking for the women, but as he was about to leave, he was called by another prostitute who called herself Dusty, who asked if he wanted company. While she was with him, he said, she took the gun. He then said he believed Dusty's real name was Marcia McKittrick. Carpenter, a former vice squad officer, used his old contacts to trace McKittrick, and discovered she was involved with Bobby Wayne Vandiver, an habitual criminal who had established himself as a pimp following his most recent release from prison.\n\nVandiver was arrested in April 1973, but refused to cooperate with police until he was positively identified as the perpetrator by Hill's mother. When he confessed to the murder, he told police he had done it for financial gain. During his confession, Vandiver implicated McKittrick and Lilla Paulus, a former prostitute from Houston, as having been accessories to Hill's murder. He claimed that the shooting was a contract killing that he had been asked to carry out for $5,000. He told detectives \"[Paulus] told me the contract was on a doctor who had killed his wife. And that it was the wife's father who was wanting him dead.\" During several days of police interrogation, Vandiver told Detectives Carpenter and Gamino that Lilla Paulus had first mentioned the contract in the summer of 1972, but that he had never intended to go through with it. He said that after he agreed to kill Hill, McKittrick telephoned Hill's office to arrange an appointment with the surgeon, but was told he was in Las Vegas. They subsequently traveled to Las Vegas to carry out the killing there, but could not find Hill, so they returned to Houston. After Vandiver killed the doctor at his home, he fled with McKittrick to Los Angeles, where they shared an apartment for several months, but they frequently quarreled, and returned separately to Texas in 1973.\n\nOn April 25, 1973, a grand jury voted to indict Vandiver and McKittrick for first degree murder, and indict Paulus as an accomplice to murder. Vandiver's trial was set for September 1973. In the meantime, District Attorney Bob Bennett arranged for him to live at a motel with his wife, Vicki. She had found a job as a waitress, but he was required to stay in his room unless accompanied by someone from the District Attorney's office. Vicki was in the process of seeking custody of her children from a previous marriage, and in June 1973, Vandiver asked Bennett if he could travel with her to Dallas while the case was heard. Bennett granted the request on the condition that Vandiver check in with him on a regular basis. Vandiver showed up as promised in September, only to learn that the trial had been postponed, and Bennett reluctantly allowed him to return to Dallas. The trial was eventually rescheduled for April 1974, but Vandiver failed to appear. He went on the run and moved to Longview, Texas, adopting the alias J. C. Sheridan and trying to maintain a low profile. However, Longview police officer John Raymer grew suspicious of the newcomer to his town. After discovering the man's first name was actually Bobby, Raymer confronted Vandiver at a cafe one evening in May; Vandiver pulled a gun, and Raymer shot him dead.\n\nMcKittrick remained at large for several months, but was finally arrested in Dallas on September 21, 1973, after attempting to cash a forged payroll check at a drive-in bank. Under questioning, she corroborated Vandiver's story, and also told Carpenter and Gamino that she had met Ash Robinson while she was staying with Lilla Paulus in 1972. McKittrick claimed that Robinson had said he would do anything to get custody of his grandson, but that the only way that would happen was if Hill was dead. She said that Robinson and Paulus had met frequently at Ben Taub Hospital, where money was handed over, and that Robinson had also visited Paulus at her home, where he gave her plans of Hill's home and $7,000 on the day of the shooting. McKittrick was scheduled to be tried in 1974, alongside Paulus. However, Paulus's lawyer, Dick DeGuerin, argued for Vandiver's evidence to be dismissed under the Sixth Amendment, which gives a defendant the right to confront their accuser; the request was granted. DeGuerin also asked for McKittrick's evidence against Paulus to be ruled as inadmissible. But although this request was also granted, presiding Judge Price ruled that McKittrick's evidence could be used in the state's case against her. McKittrick's attorney, John Caperton, then sought consensus for her to enter a not guilty plea, but accept a guilty verdict, something to which Bennett agreed. McKittrick was convicted of being Vandiver's getaway driver and given a ten-year jail sentence. She was paroled after serving five years.\n\nAs McKittrick was led from the court, Bennett asked her to give evidence against Paulus, but she was initially reluctant to do so. She continued to resist until the case against Paulus was heard in February 1975. At the trial, McKittrick testified that Robinson had paid Paulus $25,000 to find someone to eliminate Hill, and that in turn, Paulus had paid Vandiver $5,000 to carry out the murder. McKittrick and Robinson both passed polygraph tests. The results indicated that McKittrick was being truthful when she stated that Robinson had caused John Hill's death and that Robinson was telling the truth when he said he had nothing to do with Hill's murder. Bennett also produced evidence that Ash Robinson had taken out a private telephone number, which had been found written on a scrap of paper in Paulus's handbag. DeGuerin then sought to portray McKittrick as a liar by calling Paulus to the witness stand, a strategy that was almost successful until Paulus deviated from the agreed testimony. She had sought to portray herself as a respectable widow who had taken pity on McKittrick. However, after telling the court that she did not know Vandiver, but had taken McKittrick into her home after a friend of her late husband had introduced them in the spring of 1972, Paulus offered comment on the difference between the two women's lifestyles. She told the court \"I liked [McKittrick] even though you could gather from her conversation that her life was just a little bit different from mine\".\n\nPaulus claimed to know nothing of McKittrick's past, but Bennett thought her comparison of the two women's lifestyles was unusual if she was telling the truth. He knew that several years earlier she had been arrested on vagrancy and prostitution charges, and he sought a way to impeach her testimony. An officer who had arrested her, Lieutenant Allbright, then testified, casting doubt on her credibility, after which Bennett eventually persuaded Paulus's daughter, Mary Jo Wood, to give evidence against her. The relationship between mother and daughter had soured some years previously, after Paulus had disapproved of a man Wood was dating, attempted to have them both killed, then had her daughter confined to a mental hospital. Wood had escaped from the institution and fled with the man to another state, where the couple married, and she was afraid to return to Texas. She agreed to testify only after Bennett assured her that the District Attorney's office would ensure her protection while she was in Houston. Bennett introduced Mary Jo Wood as a surprise witness. She went on to testify that when Wood was a young girl, Paulus had owned several properties on Galveston's Post Office Street, a notorious red-light district, that were operated as brothels. She also said that Paulus had accepted payment from a man who wished to perform a sexual act with Wood. Wood testified that she and her mother met Joan Robinson Hill through Diane Settegast around 1963. While at Robinson Hill's home, the women also met Ash Robinson. Wood said that she and her mother occasionally sat in the Robinson box at horse shows. When Wood visited her mother in December 1970, she claimed she was told by Paulus of a call from Settegast, saying that Robinson wanted to hire someone to kill John Hill.\n\nDiane Settegast testified that she had known the Robinson family since 1952 and had met Paulus in 1957 or 1958. She denied telling Paulus that Ash Robinson wanted someone to kill his former son-in-law. Settegast, who had stayed at Paulus's home during the first murder trial for Hill, said she did have three telephone numbers for Ash Robinson; she believed she received the third number after the murder of John Hill and may have given the number in question to Paulus. She continued by saying that she had seen Paulus in the company of Ash Robinson only once; it was at Chatsworth Farm during the 1968 holiday season.\n\nPaulus was convicted and given a 35-year sentence. Robinson claimed that Paulus had loved his daughter and that her actions were born out of a sense of justice for avenging Robinson Hill's death. He continued to maintain his own innocence. Paulus subsequently appealed, and in October 1981, the Texas Court of Appeals reversed the conviction, ruling that there was not enough evidence to prove Paulus's guilt, and that McKittrick's evidence was unreliable. This decision was then overturned by the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals in May 1982, reinstating the conviction and the original sentence. Paulus died of breast cancer at the Gatesville prison on May 16, 1986.\n\nIn 1979, Ash and Rhea Robinson relocated from Houston to Pensacola, Florida, to distance themselves from the ongoing interest in the death of their daughter. By 1981, Robert Hill had reconciled with his grandparents and was also living in Pensacola. Ash Robinson died in Florida in February 1985, aged 87. His wife Rhea died, aged 86, just over two years later in June 1987. Following the death of her husband, Connie Hill petitioned the court for custody of her 12-year-old stepson, Robert. She was joined in filing the petition by John Hill's mother and sister. Connie and Robert Hill lived in the Kirby Drive home for several years. Robert Hill decided to sell the house in 1981. At the time, he was living in Florida, while Connie was preparing to remarry. Ann Kurth and her three sons went into seclusion outside of Austin, Texas, where she died of an aneurism in January 1990, aged 59.\n\nIn November 1980, \"CBS-TV\" reported that medical evidence had been reexamined, and that Hill's defense lawyer, Richard Haynes was of the opinion that Joan Robinson Hill may have died as a result of toxic shock syndrome, a condition associated with the use of tampons. But while Houston Medical Examiner Joseph Jachimscyk agreed that some of Robinson Hill's symptoms were indicative of toxic shock syndrome, he said that others were not, so would not change his original conclusion.\n\nThe events surrounding the death of Joan Robinson Hill have been the subject of several books, as well as a 1981 television film. Journalist and author Thomas Thompson's 1976 book \"Blood and Money\" provides a detailed account of the case. He became interested in the story while shadowing doctors in Houston as research for a previous book, \"Hearts\", about the world of cardiac surgery. Ann Kurth filed a $3-million lawsuit against Thompson over his description of her as a \"provocatively dressed, heavily made-up woman\", but her action was dismissed by a jury in Austin in March 1981, which decided that although derogatory, his description of her was accurate. The legal case was one of three Thompson faced over his book.\n\nKurth published her own account of the case entitled \"Prescription Murder\" in which she repeated her claim that Hill had tried to kill her, and alleged that he may have poisoned his first wife with bacteria-laced pastries. She also suggested that Hill had not been killed in 1972, and had instead moved to Mexico after faking his death. Retired Harris County District Attorney Carol Vance also discussed the case in his memoirs, \"Boomtown DA\".\n\nIn 1981, the Robinson Hill case was the subject of \"Murder in Texas\", a television film featuring Farrah Fawcett as Robinson Hill. It concurs with Kurth's theory that Hill may have faked his death, suggesting that he arranged for someone else to be killed in his place. The journalist Jerry Buck noted in an article preceding the film's debut on NBC that the face of the shooting victim had been battered and that there were anomalies in the autopsy report, notably that Hill had a different eye color from that recorded for the dead person. Buck also wrote that Hill was in financial difficulties with the Internal Revenue Service in 1972 and facing a murder case against him. Sightings of Hill had also been reported in Mexico and New York.\n\nThe death of Robinson Hill was also the subject of a true crime television documentary-drama as part of the series \"Behind Mansion Walls\" from the Investigation Discovery television network. \"The Thoroughbred Heiress\" first aired in June 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31110904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31110904", "title": "Effects of stress on memory", "text": "Effects of stress on memory\n\nThe effects of stress on memory include interference with a person's capacity to encode memory and the ability to retrieve information. During times of stress, the body reacts by secreting stress hormones into the bloodstream. Stress can cause acute and chronic changes in certain brain areas which can cause long-term damage. Over-secretion of stress hormones most frequently impairs long-term delayed recall memory, but can enhance short-term, immediate recall memory. This enhancement is particularly relative in emotional memory. In particular, the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and the amygdala are affected. One class of stress hormone responsible for negatively affecting long-term, delayed recall memory is the glucocorticoids (GCs), the most notable of which is cortisol. Glucocorticoids facilitate and impair the actions of stress in the brain memory process. Cortisol is a known biomarker for stress. Under normal circumstances, the hippocampus regulates the production of cortisol through negative feedback because it has many receptors that are sensitive to these stress hormones. However, an excess of cortisol can impair the ability of the hippocampus to both encode and recall memories. These stress hormones are also hindering the hippocampus from receiving enough energy by diverting glucose levels to surrounding muscles.\n\nStress affects many memory functions and cognitive functioning of the brain. There are different levels of stress and the high levels can be intrinsic or extrinsic. Intrinsic stress level is triggered by a cognitive challenge whereas extrinsic can be triggered by a condition not related to a cognitive task. Intrinsic stress can be acutely and chronically experienced by a person. The varying effects of stress on performance or stress hormones are often compared to or known as \"inverted-u\" which induce areas in learning, memory and plasticity. Chronic stress can affect the brain structure and cognition.\n\nStudies considered the effects of stress on both intrinsic and extrinsic memory functions, using for both of them Pavlovian conditioning and spatial learning. In regard to intrinsic memory functions, the study evaluated how stress affected memory functions that was triggered by a learning challenge. In regard to extrinsic stress, the study focused on stress that was not related to cognitive task but was elicited by other situations. The results determined that intrinsic stress was facilitated by memory consolidation process and extrinsic stress was determined to be heterogeneous in regard to memory consolidation. Researchers found that high stress conditions were a good representative of the effect that extrinsic stress can cause on memory functioning. It was also proven that extrinsic stress does affect spatial learning whereas acute extrinsic stress does not.\n\nWhen a stressful situation is encountered, stress hormones are released into the blood stream. Adrenaline is released by the adrenal glands to begin the response in the body. Adrenaline acts as a catalyst for the fight-or-flight response, which is a response of the sympathetic nervous system to encourage the body to react to the apparent stressor. This response causes an increase in heart-rate, blood pressure, and accelerated breathing. The kidneys release glucose, providing energy to combat or flee the stressor. Blood is redirected to the brain and major muscle groups, diverted away from energy consuming bodily functions unrelated to survival at the present time. There are three important axes, the adrenocorticotropic axis, the vasopressin axis and the thyroxine axis, which are responsible for the physiologic response to stress.\n\nWhen a receptor within the body senses a stressor, a signal is sent to the anterior hypothalamus. At the reception of the signal, corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) acts on the anterior pituitary. The anterior pituitary in turn releases adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). ACTH induces the release of corticosteriods and aldosterone from the adrenal gland. These substances are the main factors responsible for the stress response in humans. Cortisol for example stimulates the mobilization of free fatty acids and proteins and the breakdown of amino acids, and increases serum glucose level and blood pressure, among other effects. On the other hand, aldosterone is responsible for water retention associated with stress. As a result of cells retaining sodium and eliminating potassium, water is retained and blood pressure is increased by increasing the blood volume.\n\nA second physiological response in relation to stress occurs via the vasopressin axis. Vasopressin, also known as antidiuretic hormone (ADH), is synthesized and regulates fluid loss by manipulating the urinary tract. This pathway allows water reabsorption within the body and decreases the amount of water lost through perspiration. ADH has the greatest effect on blood pressure within the body. Under normal circumstances, ADH will regulate the blood pressure and increase or decrease the blood volume when needed. However, when stress becomes chronic, homeostatic regulation of blood pressure is lost. Vasopressin is released and causes a static increase in blood pressure. This increase in blood pressure under stressful conditions ensures that muscles receive the oxygen that they need to be active and respond accordingly. If these stressful conditions remain elevated, muscles will become fatigued, resulting in hypertension and in extreme cases can result in death.\n\nThe third physiological response results in the release of thyrotropic hormone-release factor (TRF) which results in the release of thyrotropic hormone (TTH). TTH stimulates the release of thyroxine and triiodothyronine from the thyroid. This results in an increased basal metabolic rate (BMR). This effect is not as immediate as the other two, and can take days to weeks to become prevalent.\n\nChronic stress is a stressor that is ongoing for a long period of time. When chronic stress is experienced, our body is in a state of continuous physiological arousal. Normally, our body activates our fight-or-flight-response, and when the perceived stress is over our body returns to a state of homeostasis. When chronic stress is perceived, however, the body is in a continuous state of fight-or-flight response and never reaches a state of homeostasis. The physiological effects of chronic stress can negatively affect memory and learning. One study used rats to show the effects of chronic stress on memory by exposing them to a cat for five weeks and being randomly assigned to a different group each day. Their stress was measured in a naturalistic setting by observing their open field behaviour, and the effect on memory was estimated using the radial arm water maze (RAWM). In the RAWM, rats are taught the place of a platform that is placed below the surface of the water. They must recall this later to discover the platform to exit the water. It was found that the rats exposed to chronic psychosocial stress could not learn to adapt to new situations and environments, and had impaired memory on the RAWM.\n\nChronic stress affects a person's cognitive functioning differently for normal subjects versus subjects with mild cognitive impairment. Chronic stress and elevated cortisol (a biomarker for stress) has been known to lead to dementia in elderly people. A longitudinal study was performed which included 61 cognitively normal people and 41 people who suffered from mild cognitive impairment. The participants were between 65 and 97 years old. 52 of the participants were followed for three years and repeatedly received stress and cognitive test assessments. Any patient that suffered from signs or conditions that would affect their cortisol level or cognitive functioning was exempt from participating.\n\nIn general, higher event based stress was associated with more rapid cognitive impairment. However, participants with greater cortisol levels showed signs of slower decline. Neither of these effects held for the non-cognitively-impaired group.\n\nAcute stress is a stressor that is an immediate perceived threat. Unlike chronic stress, acute stress is not ongoing and the physiological arousal associated with acute stress is not nearly as demanding. There are mixed findings on the effects of acute stress on memory. One view is that acute stress can impair memory, while others believe that acute stress can actually enhance memory. Several studies have shown that stress and glucocorticoids enhance memory formation while they impair memory retrieval. For acute stress to enhance memory certain circumstances must be met. First, the context in which the stress is being perceived must match the context of the information or material being encoded. Second, the brain regions involved in the retrieval of the memory must match the regions targeted by glucocorticoids. There are also differences in the type of information being remembered or being forgotten while being exposed to acute stress. In some cases neutral stimuli tend to be remembered, while emotionally charged (salient) stimuli tend to be forgotten. In other cases the opposite effect is obtained. What seems to be an important factor in determining what will be impaired and what will be enhanced is the timing of the perceived stressful exposure and the timing of the retrieval. For emotionally salient information to be remembered, the perceived stress must be induced before encoding, and retrieval must follow shortly afterwards. In contrast, for emotionally charged stimuli to be forgotten, the stressful exposure must be after encoding and retrieval must follow after a longer delay.\n\nIf stressful information is relatable to a person, the event more prone to be stored in permanent memory. When a person is under stress, the sympathetic system will shift to a constantly (tonically) active state. To further study how acute stress affect memory formation, a study would appropriate to add examine. Acute stress exposure induces the activation of different hormonal and neurotransmitters which effect the memory's working processes.\n\nA study published in 2009 tested eighteen young healthy males between 19 and 31 years old. All participants were right-handed and had no history of a head injury, or of any medication that could affect a person central nervous system or endocrine system. All of the volunteers participated in two different sessions a month apart. The study consisted on the participants viewing movie clips and pictures that belonged to two different categories: neutral or negative. The participants had to memorize then rate each movie clip or picture by pressing a button with their right hand. They were also monitored in other areas such as their heart rate, pupil diameter, and stress measures by collection of saliva throughout the experiment. The participants mood was assessed by using the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule.\n\nThe results from the study confirmed that there were physiological measures in regard to stress induction. The participant's heart rate was elevated and pupil dilation was decreased when viewing the pictures. The study also showed psychological measures that proved that stress induction did cause an increase in subjective stress. In regard to memory enhancement, participants that were shown a stressful picture, often remembered them a day later, which is in accordance with the theory that negative incidents have lasting effects on our memory.\n\nAcute stress can also affect a person's neural correlates which interfere with the memory formation. During a stressful time, a person's attention and emotional state may be affected, which could hinder the ability to focus while processing an image. Stress can also enhance the neural state of memory formation.\n\nShort-term memory (STM) is the ability to store small amounts of information for a limited amount of time. The \"Miller's Law\" that the capacity of an average person's STM is 7±2 objects, and lasts for a matter of seconds. This means that when given a series of items to remember, most people can remember 5-9 of those items, the average being 7. However, this limit can be increased by rehearsing the information. Information in STM can be transferred to long-term memory (LTM) by rehearsal and association with other information previously stored in LTM.\nMost of the research on stress and memory has been done on working memory (WM), as opposed to STM.\n\nWorking memory (WM), similar to STM, is the ability to temporarily store information in order to manipulate it for performing complex tasks, such as reasoning.\nWM is affected to a greater extent by stress than LTM. Stress has been shown to both improve and impair WM. In a study by Duncko \"et al.\", the positive effect of stress manifested itself as a decreased reaction time in participants, while the negative effect of stress causes more false alarms and mistakes when compared to a normal condition. The researchers hypothesize that this could be representative of faster information processing, something helpful in a threatening situation. Anxiety has also been shown to adversely affect some of the components of WM, those being the phonological loop, the visuo-spatial sketchpad, and the central executive. The phonological loop is used for auditory STM, the visuo-spatial sketchpad is used for visual and spatial STM, and the central executive links and controls these systems. The disruption of these components impairs the transfer of information from WM to LTM, thus affecting learning. For instance, several studies have demonstrated that acute stress can impair working memory processing likely though reduced neural activity in the prefrontal cortex in both monkeys and humans.\n\nLong-term memory (LTM) is the ability to store an unlimited amount of information over long periods of time, ranging from a few days to many years.\n\nLess is known about the effect of stress on LTM than is known about the effect of stress on STM. This could be due to the fact that LTM is not affected as severely as STM and WM are, and is also influenced by the effect of stress on STM and WM.\n\nThe major effect of stress on LTM is that it improves consolidation of memory, while it impairs the retrieval of memory. That is, one will be able to remember information relating to a stressful situation after the fact, but while in a stressful situation it is hard to recall specific information. In a study by Park \"et al.\" done on rats, the researchers found that shock induced stress caused the rats to forget what they learned in the phase prior to the shock, but to have distinct memory for where the shock occurred. This negative effect on the retrieval of memories caused by stress can be attributed to cortisol, the stress hormone that is released in stressful situations.\nA study by Marin \"et al.\" demonstrated that stress enhances recall of information reviewed prior to the stressful situation, and that this effect is long lasting.\n\nExplicit memory, or declarative memory, is the intentional recall of past events or learned information and is a discipline of LTM. Explicit memory includes memory for remembering a specific event, such as dinner the week prior, or information about the world, such as the definition for explicit memory. When an anxious state is provoked, percentage recall on explicit memory tasks is enhanced. However, this effect is only present for emotionally associated words. Stress hormones influence the processes carried out in the hippocampus and amygdala which are also associated with emotional responses. Thus, emotional memories are enhanced when stress is induced, as they are both associated with the same areas of the brain, whereas neutral stimuli and stress are not. However, enhancement of explicit memory depends on the time of day. Explicit memory is enhanced by stress when assessed in the afternoon, but impaired when assessed in the morning. Basal cortisol levels are relatively low in the afternoon and much higher in the morning, which can alter the interaction and effects of stress hormones.\n\nImplicit memory, or more precisely procedural memory, is memory of information without conscious awareness or ability to verbalize the process, and is also a discipline of LTM. There are three types of implicit memory, which are: conditioning (emotional behavior), tasks and priming (verbal behavior). For example, the process of riding a bicycle cannot be verbalized, but the action can still be executed. When implicit memory is assessed in tandem with stressful cues there is no change in procedural recall.\n\nAutobiographical memory is personal episodic memory of self-related information and specific events. Stress tends to impair the accuracy of autobiographical memories, but does not impair the frequency or confidence in them. After exposure to an emotional and stressful negative event, flashback memories can be evident. However, the more flashback memories present, the less accurate the autobiographical memory. Both aspects of autobiographical memory, episodic memory, the memory system regarding specific events, and semantic memory, the memory system regarding general information about the world, are impaired by an event that induces a stressful response. This causes the recall of an experience of a specific event and the information about the event to be recalled less accurately.\n\nAutobiographical memory, however, is not impaired on a continual decline from the first recall of the information when anxiety is induced. At first recall attempt, the memory is fairly accurate. The impairment begins when reconsolidation is present, such that the more times the memory is brought to conscious awareness, the less accurate it will become. When stress is induced the memory will be susceptible to other influences, such as suggestions from other people, or emotions unrelated to the event but present during recall. Therefore, stress at the encoding of an event positively influences memory, but stress at the time of recollection impairs memory.\n\nAttention is the process by which a concentration is focused on a point of interest, such as an event or physical stimulus. It is theorized that attention toward a stimulus will increase ability to recall information, therefore enhancing memory. When threatening information or a stimulus that provokes anxiety are present, it is difficult to release attention from the negative cue. When in a state of high anxiety, a conceptual memory bias is produced toward the negative stimulus. Therefore, it is difficult to redirect the attention focus away from the negative, anxiety provoking cue. This increases the activation of the pathways associated with the threatening cues, and thus increases the ability to recall the information present while in a high anxious state. However, when in a high anxious state and presented with positive information, there is no memory bias produced. This occurs because it is not as difficult to redirect attention from the positive stimulus as it is from the negative stimulus. This is due to the fact that the negative cue is perceived as a factor in the induced stress, whereas the positive cue is not.\n\nLearning is the modification of behaviour by experience. For example, learning to avoid certain stimuli such as a tornadoes, thunderstorms, large animals, and toxic chemicals, because they can be harmful. This is classified as aversion conditioning, and is related to fear responses.\n\nAn anxious state at the time of learning can create a stronger aversion to the stimuli. A stronger aversion can lead to stronger associations in memory between the stimulus and response, therefore enhancing the memory of the response to the stimulus. When extinction is attempted in male and female humans, compared to a neutral control without anxiety, extinction does not occur. This suggests that memory is enhanced for learning, specifically fear learning, when anxiety is present.\n\nConversely, reversal learning is inhibited by the presence of anxiety. Reversal learning is assessed through the reversal learning task; a stimulus and response relationship is learned through the trial and error method and then without notice, the relationship is reversed, examining the role of cognitive flexibility. Inhibited reversal learning can be associated with the idea that subjects experiencing symptoms of anxiety frustrate easily and are unable to successfully adapt to a changing environment. Thus, anxiety can negatively affect learning when the stimulus and response relationship are reversed or altered.\n\nMuch of the research relating to stress and memory has been conducted on animals and can be generalized to humans. One type of stress that is not easily translatable to humans is predator stress: the anxiety an animal experiences when in the presence of a predator. In studies, stress is induced by introducing a predator to a subject either before the learning phase or between the learning phase and the testing phase. Memory is measured by various tests, such as the radial arm water maze (RAWM). In the RAWM, rats are taught the location of a hidden platform and must recall this information later on to find the platform and get out of the water.\n\nPredator Stress has been shown to impair STM. It has been determined that this effect on STM is not due to the fact that a predator is a novel and arousing stimulus, but rather because of the fear that is provoked in the test subjects by the predator.\n\nPredator stress has been shown to increase LTM. In a study done by Sundata \"et al.\" on snails, it was shown that when trained in the presence of a predator, snails' memory persisted for at least 24 hours in adults, while it usually lasts only 3 hours. Juvenile snails, who usually do not have any LTM showed signs of LTM after exposure to a predator.\n\nPredator stress has been shown to improve classical conditioning in males and hinder it in females. A study done by Maeng \"et al.\" demonstrated that stress allowed faster classical conditioning of male rats while disrupting the same type of learning in female rats. These gender differences were shown to be caused by the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). When the researchers inactivated that brain region by administering muscimol to the females, no gender differences in classical conditioning were observed 24 hours later. Inactivating the mPFC in the male rats did not prevent the enhanced conditioning that the males previously exhibited. This discrepancy between genders has also been shown to be present in humans. In a 2005 study, Jackson \"et al.\" reported that stress enhanced classical conditioning in human males and impaired classical condition in human females.\n\nPost-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder that can occur after exposure to horrific events, or after a terrifying ordeal where there is immense physical harm that directly or indirectly affects a person. When the memories of these traumas do not subside, a person may begin to avoid anything that would cause them to relive these events. When this persists over an extended period of time, one may be said to be suffering from PTSD. Examples of events that could lead to the onset of PTSD are war, rape, assault, and childhood neglect. It is estimated that approximately 8% of American may suffer from this disease which can lead to long-term problems.\n\nSymptoms include persistent frightened thoughts and memories of the trauma or ordeal and emotional numbness. The individual may experience sleeping problems, be easily startled, or experience feelings of detachment or numbness. Sufferers may experience depression and/or display self-destructive behaviours.\n\nThere are three categories of symptoms associated with PTSD:\n\nThe most effective treatments for PTSD are psychotherapy, medication, and in some circumstance both. Effective psychotherapy involves helping the individual with managing the symptoms, coping with the traumatic event, and working through the traumatic experiences. Medications such as antidepressants has proven to be an effective way to block the effects of stress and to also promote neurogenesis. The medication phenytoin can also block stress caused to the hippocampus with the help of modulation of excitatory amino acids. Preliminary findings indicate that cortisol may be helpful to reduce traumatic memory in PTSD.\n\nPTSD affects memory recall and accuracy. The more the traumatic event is brought to conscious awareness and recalled, the less accurate the memory. PTSD affects the verbal memory of the traumatic event, but does not affect the memory in general. One of the ways traumatic stress affects individuals is that the traumatic event tends to disrupt the stream of memories people obtain through life, creating memories that do not blend in with the rest. This has the effect of creating a split in identity as the person now has good memories they can attribute to one personality and bad memories the can attribute to the \"other\" personality. For example, a victim of childhood abuse can group their good and happy experiences under the \"pleasant\" personality and their abuse experiences under one \"bad or wicked\" personality. This then creates a split personality disorder. Individuals suffering from post traumatic stress disorder often have difficulty remembering facts, appointments and autobiographical details. The traumatic event can result in psychogenic amnesia and in the occurrence of intrusive recollections of the event. Children with PTSD have deficits in cognitive processes essential for learning; their memory systems also under-performs those of normal children. A study using the Rivermead Behavioural Memory Test showed that individuals with PTSD scored lower than controls on the memory test, indicating a poorer general knowledge. The study revealed that 78% of PTSD patients under-performed, and where in the categories labelled \"poor memory\" or \"impaired memory\". PTSD patients were specifically worse at the prospective and orientation items on the Rivermead Behavioural Memory Test.\n\nA few studies done in the past proved that PTSD can cause cognition and brain structure changes that involve verbal declarative memory deficits. Children that have experienced child abuse may according to neuropsychological testing experience a deficit in verbal declarative memory functioning.\n\nStudies have been conducted on people that were involved in the Vietnam War or the Holocaust, returning Iraq soldiers and people that also suffered from rape and childhood abuse. Different tests were administered such as the Selective Reminding Test, Verbal Learning Test, Paired Associate Recall, the California Verbal New Learning Test, and the Rivermead Behavioral Memory Test. The test results showed that the returning Iraq soldiers did have less verbal memory performance as compared to pre-deployment.\n\nThe studies performed on the Vietnam veterans that suffer from PTSD show that there are hippocampal changes in the brain associated with this disorder. The veterans with PTSD showed an 8% reduction in their right hippocampal volume. The patients that suffered from child abuse showed a 12% reduction in their mean left hippocampal volume. Several of the studies has also shown that people with PTSD have deficits while performing verbal declarative memory task in their hippicampal.\n\nPTSD can affect several parts of the brain such as the amygdala, hippocampus, and the prefrontal cortex. The amygdala controls our memory and emotional processing; the hippocampus helps with organizing, storing and memory forming. Hippocampus is the most sensitive area to stress. The prefrontal cortex helps with our expression and personality and helps regulate complex cognitive and our behavior functions.\n\nSocial anxiety disorder is an anxiety disorder consisting of overwhelming anxiety and excessive self-consciousness in everyday social situations. It is an extreme fear of being scrutinized and judged by others in social and/or performance situations. This fear about a situation can become so severe that it affects work, school, and other typical activities. Social anxiety can be related to one situation (such as talking to people) or it can be much more broad, where a person experiences anxiety around everyone except family members.\n\nPeople with social anxiety disorder have a constant, chronic fear of being watched and judged by peers and strangers, and of doing something that will embarrass them. People that suffer from this may physically feel sick from the situation, even when the situation is non-threatening. Physical symptoms of the disorder include blushing, profuse sweating, trembling, nausea or abdominal distress, rapid heartbeat, shortness of breath, dizziness or lightheadedness, headaches, and feelings of detachment. Development of low self-esteem, poor social skills, and trouble being assertive are also common signs of social anxiety disorder.\n\nSocial anxiety disorder can be treated with many different types of therapy and medication. Exposure therapy is an effective method of treating social anxiety. In exposure therapy a patient is presented with situations that they are afraid of, gradually building up to facing the situation that the patient fears most. This type of therapy helps the patient learn new techniques to cope with different situations that they fear. Role-playing has proven effective for the treatment or social anxiety. Role-playing therapy helps to boost individuals' confidence relating to other people and helps increase social skills. Medication is another effective method for treating social anxiety. Antidepressants, beta blockers, and anti-anxiety medications are the most commonly prescribed types of medication to treat social anxiety. Moreover, there are new approaches to treat phobias and enhance exposure therapy with glucocorticoids.\n\nSocial phobics display a tendency to recall negative emotions about a situation when asked to recall the event. Their emotions typically revolve around themselves, with no recollection of other people's environments. Social anxiety results in negative aspects of the event to be remembered, leading to a biased opinion of the situation from the perspective of the social phobic compared to the non-social phobic. Social phobics typically displayed better recall than control participants. However, individuals with social anxiety recalled angry faces rather than happy or neutral faces better than control participants.\n\nObsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) involves both obsessions and compulsions that disrupt daily routines and activities. The obsessions include recurrent unwanted thoughts that cause compulsions, including repetitive behaviors. Individuals that suffer from OCD may realize that their obsessions are not normal and try to stop their actions, but this only increases the person's anxiety towards the situation, and has an adverse effect. OCD often revolves around themes in one's life; for example, fear of coming in contact with germs (obsession). To deal with the fear of germs one may compulsively wash their hands until they are chapped. OCD is a constituent of many other disorders including autism, Tourette's syndrome, and frontal lobe lesions.\n\nA person that shows a constant need to complete a certain \"ritual\", or is constantly plagued with unwelcome thoughts, may suffer from OCD. Themes of obsessions include fear of germs or dirt, having things orderly and symmetrical, and sexual thoughts and images.\nSigns of obsessions:\n\nCompulsions follow the theme of the obsessions, and are repetitive behaviors that individuals suffering from OCD feel will diminish the effect of the obsession. Compulsions also follow the theme, including hand washing, cleaning, performing actions repeatedly, or extreme orderliness.\n\nSigns of compulsions:\n\nBehavior therapy has proven to be an effective method for treating OCD. Patients are exposed to the theme that is typically avoided, while being restricted from performing their usual anxiety reducing rituals. Behavior therapy rarely eliminates OCD, but it helps to reduce the signs and symptoms. With medication, this reduction of the disorder is even more evident. Antidepressants are usually the first prescribed medication to a patient with OCD. Medications that treat OCD typically inhibit the reuptake of serotonin.\n\nObsessive-compulsive individuals have difficulty forgetting unwanted thoughts. When they encode this information into memory they encode it as a neutral or positive thought. This is inconsistent with what a person without OCD would think about this thought, leading the individual with OCD to continue displaying their specific \"ritual\" to help deal with their anxiety. When asked to forget information they have encoded, OCD patients have difficulty forgetting what they are told to forget only when the subject is negative. Individuals not affected by OCD do not show this tendency. Researchers have proposed a general deficit hypothesis for memory related problems in OCD. There are limited studies investigating this hypothesis. These studies propose that memory is enhanced for menacing events that have occurred during the individuals life. For example, a study demonstrated that individuals with OCD exhibit exceptional recall for previously encountered events, but only when the event promoted anxiety in the individual.\n\n"}
{"id": "10958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10958", "title": "Fossil", "text": "Fossil\n\nA fossil (from Classical Latin \"fossilis\"; literally, \"obtained by digging\") is any preserved remains, impression, or trace of any once-living thing from a past geological age. Examples include bones, shells, exoskeletons, stone imprints of animals or microbes, objects preserved in amber, hair, petrified wood, oil, coal, and DNA remnants. The totality of fossils is known as the \"fossil record\".\n\nPaleontology is the study of fossils: their age, method of formation, and evolutionary significance. Specimens are usually considered to be fossils if they are over 10,000 years old. The oldest fossils are from around 3.48 billion years old to 4.1 billion years old. The observation in the 19th century that certain fossils were associated with certain rock strata led to the recognition of a geological timescale and the relative ages of different fossils. The development of radiometric dating techniques in the early 20th century allowed scientists to quantitatively measure the absolute ages of rocks and the fossils they host.\n\nThere are many processes that lead to fossilization, including permineralization, casts and molds, authigenic mineralization, replacement and recrystallization, adpression, carbonization, and bioimmuration.\n\nFossils vary in size from one-micrometre (1 µm) bacteria to dinosaurs and trees, many meters long and weighing many tons. A fossil normally preserves only a portion of the deceased organism, usually that portion that was partially mineralized during life, such as the bones and teeth of vertebrates, or the chitinous or calcareous exoskeletons of invertebrates. Fossils may also consist of the marks left behind by the organism while it was alive, such as animal tracks or feces (coprolites). These types of fossil are called trace fossils or \"ichnofossils\", as opposed to \"body fossils\". Some fossils are biochemical and are called \"chemofossils\" or biosignatures.\n\nThe process of fossilization varies according to tissue type and external conditions.\n\nPermineralization is a process of fossilization that occurs when an organism is buried. The empty spaces within an organism (spaces filled with liquid or gas during life) become filled with mineral-rich groundwater. Minerals precipitate from the groundwater, occupying the empty spaces. This process can occur in very small spaces, such as within the cell wall of a plant cell. Small scale permineralization can produce very detailed fossils. For permineralization to occur, the organism must become covered by sediment soon after death or soon after the initial decay process. The degree to which the remains are decayed when covered determines the later details of the fossil. Some fossils consist only of skeletal remains or teeth; other fossils contain traces of skin, feathers or even soft tissues. This is a form of diagenesis.\n\nIn some cases the original remains of the organism completely dissolve or are otherwise destroyed. The remaining organism-shaped hole in the rock is called an \"external mold\". If this hole is later filled with other minerals, it is a \"cast\". An endocast or \"internal mold\" is formed when sediments or minerals fill the internal cavity of an organism, such as the inside of a bivalve or snail or the hollow of a skull.\n\nThis is a special form of cast and mold formation. If the chemistry is right, the organism (or fragment of organism) can act as a nucleus for the precipitation of minerals such as siderite, resulting in a nodule forming around it. If this happens rapidly before significant decay to the organic tissue, very fine three-dimensional morphological detail can be preserved. Nodules from the Carboniferous Mazon Creek fossil beds of Illinois, USA, are among the best documented examples of such mineralization.\n\nReplacement occurs when the shell, bone or other tissue is replaced with another mineral. In some cases mineral replacement of the original shell occurs so gradually and at such fine scales that microstructural features are preserved despite the total loss of original material. A shell is said to be \"recrystallized\" when the original skeletal compounds are still present but in a different crystal form, as from aragonite to calcite.\n\nCompression fossils, such as those of fossil ferns, are the result of chemical reduction of the complex organic molecules composing the organism's tissues. In this case the fossil consists of original material, albeit in a geochemically altered state. This chemical change is an expression of diagenesis. Often what remains is a carbonaceous film known as a phytoleim, in which case the fossil is known as a compression. Often, however, the phytoleim is lost and all that remains is an impression of the organism in the rock—an impression fossil. In many cases, however, compressions and impressions occur together. For instance, when the rock is broken open, the phytoleim will often be attached to one part (compression), whereas the counterpart will just be an impression. For this reason, one term covers the two modes of preservation: \"adpression\".\n\nBecause of their antiquity, an unexpected exception to the alteration of an organism's tissues by chemical reduction of the complex organic molecules during fossilization has been the discovery of soft tissue in dinosaur fossils, including blood vessels, and the isolation of proteins and evidence for DNA fragments. In 2014, Mary Schweitzer and her colleagues reported the presence of iron particles (goethite-aFeO(OH)) associated with soft tissues recovered from dinosaur fossils. Based on various experiments that studied the interaction of iron in haemoglobin with blood vessel tissue they proposed that solution hypoxia coupled with iron chelation enhances the stability and preservation of soft tissue and provides the basis for an explanation for the unforeseen preservation of fossil soft tissues. However, a slightly older study based on eight taxa ranging in time from the Devonian to the Jurassic found that reasonably well-preserved fibrils that probably represent collagen were preserved in all these fossils, and that the quality of preservation depended mostly on the arrangement of the collagen fibers, with tight packing favoring good preservation. There seemed to be no correlation between geological age and quality of preservation, within that timeframe.\n\nCarbonaceous films are thin coatings which consist predominantly of the chemical element carbon. The soft tissues of organisms are made largely of organic carbon compounds and during diagenesis under reducing conditions only a thin film of carbon residue is left which forms a silhouette of the original organism.\n\nBioimmuration occurs when a skeletal organism overgrows or otherwise subsumes another organism, preserving the latter, or an impression of it, within the skeleton. Usually it is a sessile skeletal organism, such as a bryozoan or an oyster, which grows along a substrate, covering other sessile sclerobionts. Sometimes the bioimmured organism is soft-bodied and is then preserved in negative relief as a kind of external mold. There are also cases where an organism settles on top of a living skeletal organism that grows upwards, preserving the settler in its skeleton. Bioimmuration is known in the fossil record from the Ordovician to the Recent.\n\nPaleontology seeks to map out how life evolved across geologic time. A substantial hurdle is the difficulty of working out fossil ages. Beds that preserve fossils typically lack the radioactive elements needed for radiometric dating. This technique is our only means of giving rocks greater than about 50 million years old an absolute age, and can be accurate to within 0.5% or better. Although radiometric dating requires careful laboratory work, its basic principle is simple: the rates at which various radioactive elements decay are known, and so the ratio of the radioactive element to its decay products shows how long ago the radioactive element was incorporated into the rock. Radioactive elements are common only in rocks with a volcanic origin, and so the only fossil-bearing rocks that can be dated radiometrically are volcanic ash layers, which may provide termini for the intervening sediments.\n\nConsequently, palaeontologists rely on stratigraphy to date fossils. Stratigraphy is the science of deciphering the \"layer-cake\" that is the sedimentary record. Rocks normally form relatively horizontal layers, with each layer younger than the one underneath it. If a fossil is found between two layers whose ages are known, the fossil's age is claimed to lie between the two known ages. Because rock sequences are not continuous, but may be broken up by faults or periods of erosion, it is very difficult to match up rock beds that are not directly adjacent. However, fossils of species that survived for a relatively short time can be used to match isolated rocks: this technique is called \"biostratigraphy\". For instance, the conodont \"Eoplacognathus pseudoplanus\" has a short range in the Middle Ordovician period. If rocks of unknown age have traces of \"E. pseudoplanus\", they have a mid-Ordovician age. Such index fossils must be distinctive, be globally distributed and occupy a short time range to be useful. Misleading results are produced if the index fossils are incorrectly dated. Stratigraphy and biostratigraphy can in general provide only relative dating (\"A\" was before \"B\"), which is often sufficient for studying evolution. However, this is difficult for some time periods, because of the problems involved in matching rocks of the same age across continents. Family-tree relationships also help to narrow down the date when lineages first appeared. For instance, if fossils of B or C date to X million years ago and the calculated \"family tree\" says A was an ancestor of B and C, then A must have evolved earlier.\n\nIt is also possible to estimate how long ago two living clades diverged, in other words approximately how long ago their last common ancestor must have lived, by assuming that DNA mutations accumulate at a constant rate. These \"molecular clocks\", however, are fallible, and provide only approximate timing: for example, they are not sufficiently precise and reliable for estimating when the groups that feature in the Cambrian explosion first evolved, and estimates produced by different techniques may vary by a factor of two.\n\nOrganisms are only rarely preserved as fossils in the best of circumstances, and only a fraction of such fossils have been discovered. This is illustrated by the fact that the number of species known through the fossil record is less than 5% of the number of known living species, suggesting that the number of species known through fossils must be far less than 1% of all the species that have ever lived. Because of the specialized and rare circumstances required for a biological structure to fossilize, only a small percentage of life-forms can be expected to be represented in discoveries, and each discovery represents only a snapshot of the process of evolution. The transition itself can only be illustrated and corroborated by transitional fossils, which will never demonstrate an exact half-way point.\n\nThe fossil record is strongly biased toward organisms with hard-parts, leaving most groups of soft-bodied organisms with little to no role. It is replete with the mollusks, the vertebrates, the echinoderms, the brachiopods and some groups of arthropods.\n\nFossil sites with exceptional preservation—sometimes including preserved soft tissues—are known as Lagerstätten - German for \"storage places\". These formations may have resulted from carcass burial in an anoxic environment with minimal bacteria, thus slowing decomposition. Lagerstätten span geological time from the Cambrian period to the present. Worldwide, some of the best examples of near-perfect fossilization are the Cambrian Maotianshan shales and Burgess Shale, the Devonian Hunsrück Slates, the Jurassic Solnhofen limestone, and the Carboniferous Mazon Creek localities.\n\nStromatolites are layered accretionary structures formed in shallow water by the trapping, binding and cementation of sedimentary grains by biofilms of microorganisms, especially cyanobacteria. Stromatolites provide some of the most ancient fossil records of life on Earth, dating back more than 3.5 billion years ago.\n\nStromatolites were much more abundant in Precambrian times. While older, Archean fossil remains are presumed to be colonies of cyanobacteria, younger (that is, Proterozoic) fossils may be primordial forms of the eukaryote chlorophytes (that is, green algae). One genus of stromatolite very common in the geologic record is \"Collenia\". The earliest stromatolite of confirmed microbial origin dates to 2.724 billion years ago.\n\nA 2009 discovery provides strong evidence of microbial stromatolites extending as far back as 3.45 billion years ago.\n\nStromatolites are a major constituent of the fossil record for life's first 3.5 billion years, peaking about 1.25 billion years ago. They subsequently declined in abundance and diversity, which by the start of the Cambrian had fallen to 20% of their peak. The most widely supported explanation is that stromatolite builders fell victims to grazing creatures (the Cambrian substrate revolution), implying that sufficiently complex organisms were common over 1 billion years ago.\n\nThe connection between grazer and stromatolite abundance is well documented in the younger Ordovician evolutionary radiation; stromatolite abundance also increased after the end-Ordovician and end-Permian extinctions decimated marine animals, falling back to earlier levels as marine animals recovered. Fluctuations in metazoan population and diversity may not have been the only factor in the reduction in stromatolite abundance. Factors such as the chemistry of the environment may have been responsible for changes.\n\nWhile prokaryotic cyanobacteria themselves reproduce asexually through cell division, they were instrumental in priming the environment for the evolutionary development of more complex eukaryotic organisms. Cyanobacteria (as well as extremophile Gammaproteobacteria) are thought to be largely responsible for increasing the amount of oxygen in the primeval earth's atmosphere through their continuing photosynthesis. Cyanobacteria use water, carbon dioxide and sunlight to create their food. A layer of mucus often forms over mats of cyanobacterial cells. In modern microbial mats, debris from the surrounding habitat can become trapped within the mucus, which can be cemented by the calcium carbonate to grow thin laminations of limestone. These laminations can accrete over time, resulting in the banded pattern common to stromatolites. The domal morphology of biological stromatolites is the result of the vertical growth necessary for the continued infiltration of sunlight to the organisms for photosynthesis. Layered spherical growth structures termed oncolites are similar to stromatolites and are also known from the fossil record. Thrombolites are poorly laminated or non-laminated clotted structures formed by cyanobacteria common in the fossil record and in modern sediments.\n\nThe Zebra River Canyon area of the Kubis platform in the deeply dissected Zaris Mountains of southwestern Namibia provides an extremely well exposed example of the thrombolite-stromatolite-metazoan reefs that developed during the Proterozoic period, the stromatolites here being better developed in updip locations under conditions of higher current velocities and greater sediment influx.\n\nIndex fossils (also known as guide fossils, indicator fossils or zone fossils) are fossils used to define and identify geologic periods (or faunal stages). They work on the premise that, although different sediments may look different depending on the conditions under which they were deposited, they may include the remains of the same species of fossil. The shorter the species' time range, the more precisely different sediments can be correlated, and so rapidly evolving species' fossils are particularly valuable. The best index fossils are common, easy to identify at species level and have a broad distribution—otherwise the likelihood of finding and recognizing one in the two sediments is poor.\n\nTrace fossils consist mainly of tracks and burrows, but also include coprolites (fossil feces) and marks left by feeding. Trace fossils are particularly significant because they represent a data source that is not limited to animals with easily fossilized hard parts, and they reflect animal behaviours. Many traces date from significantly earlier than the body fossils of animals that are thought to have been capable of making them. Whilst exact assignment of trace fossils to their makers is generally impossible, traces may for example provide the earliest physical evidence of the appearance of moderately complex animals (comparable to earthworms).\n\nCoprolites are classified as trace fossils as opposed to body fossils, as they give evidence for the animal's behaviour (in this case, diet) rather than morphology. They were first described by William Buckland in 1829. Prior to this they were known as \"fossil fir cones\" and \"bezoar stones.\" They serve a valuable purpose in paleontology because they provide direct evidence of the predation and diet of extinct organisms. Coprolites may range in size from a few millimetres to over 60 centimetres.\n\nA \"transitional fossil\" is any fossilized remains of a life form that exhibits traits common to both an ancestral group and its derived descendant group. This is especially important where the descendant group is sharply differentiated by gross anatomy and mode of living from the ancestral group. Because of the incompleteness of the fossil record, there is usually no way to know exactly how close a transitional fossil is to the point of divergence. These fossils serve as a reminder that taxonomic divisions are human constructs that have been imposed in hindsight on a continuum of variation.\n\nMicrofossil is a descriptive term applied to fossilized plants and animals whose size is just at or below the level at which the fossil can be analyzed by the naked eye. A commonly applied cutoff point between \"micro\" and \"macro\" fossils is 1 mm. Microfossils may either be complete (or near-complete) organisms in themselves (such as the marine plankters foraminifera and coccolithophores) or component parts (such as small teeth or spores) of larger animals or plants. Microfossils are of critical importance as a reservoir of paleoclimate information, and are also commonly used by biostratigraphers to assist in the correlation of rock units.\n\nFossil resin (colloquially called amber) is a natural polymer found in many types of strata throughout the world, even the Arctic. The oldest fossil resin dates to the Triassic, though most dates to the Cenozoic. The excretion of the resin by certain plants is thought to be an evolutionary adaptation for protection from insects and to seal wounds. Fossil resin often contains other fossils called inclusions that were captured by the sticky resin. These include bacteria, fungi, other plants, and animals. Animal inclusions are usually small invertebrates, predominantly arthropods such as insects and spiders, and only extremely rarely a vertebrate such as a small lizard. Preservation of inclusions can be exquisite, including small fragments of DNA.\n\nA \"derived\", \"reworked\" or \"remanié fossil\" is a fossil found in rock that accumulated significantly later than when the fossilized animal or plant died. Reworked fossils are created by erosion exhuming (freeing) fossils from the rock formation in which they were originally deposited and their redeposition in an younger sedimentary deposit.\n\nFossil wood is wood that is preserved in the fossil record. Wood is usually the part of a plant that is best preserved (and most easily found). Fossil wood may or may not be petrified. The fossil wood may be the only part of the plant that has been preserved: therefore such wood may get a special kind of botanical name. This will usually include \"xylon\" and a term indicating its presumed affinity, such as \"Araucarioxylon\" (wood of \"Araucaria\" or some related genus), \"Palmoxylon\" (wood of an indeterminate palm), or \"Castanoxylon\" (wood of an indeterminate chinkapin).\n\nThe term subfossil can be used to refer to remains, such as bones, nests, or defecations, whose fossilization process is not complete, either because the length of time since the animal involved was living is too short (less than 10,000 years) or because the conditions in which the remains were buried were not optimal for fossilization. Subfossils are often found in caves or other shelters where they can be preserved for thousands of years. The main importance of subfossil vs. fossil remains is that the former contain organic material, which can be used for radiocarbon dating or extraction and sequencing of DNA, protein, or other biomolecules. Additionally, isotope ratios can provide much information about the ecological conditions under which extinct animals lived. Subfossils are useful for studying the evolutionary history of an environment and can be important to studies in paleoclimatology.\n\nSubfossils are often found in depositionary environments, such as lake sediments, oceanic sediments, and soils. Once deposited, physical and chemical weathering can alter the state of preservation.\n\nChemical fossils, or chemofossils, are chemicals found in rocks and fossil fuels (petroleum, coal, and natural gas) that provide an organic signature for ancient life. Molecular fossils and isotope ratios represent two types of chemical fossils. The oldest traces of life on Earth are fossils of this type, including carbon isotope anomalies found in zircons that imply the existence of life as early as 4.1 billion years ago.\n\nIt has been suggested that biominerals could be important indicators of extraterrestrial life and thus could play an important role in the search for past or present life on the planet Mars. Furthermore, organic components (biosignatures) that are often associated with biominerals are believed to play crucial roles in both pre-biotic and biotic reactions.\n\nOn 24 January 2014, NASA reported that current studies by the \"Curiosity\" and \"Opportunity\" rovers on Mars will now be searching for evidence of ancient life, including a biosphere based on autotrophic, chemotrophic and/or chemolithoautotrophic microorganisms, as well as ancient water, including fluvio-lacustrine environments (plains related to ancient rivers or lakes) that may have been habitable. The search for evidence of habitability, taphonomy (related to fossils), and organic carbon on the planet Mars is now a primary NASA objective.\n\n\"Pseudofossils\" are visual patterns in rocks that are produced by geologic processes rather than biologic processes. They can easily be mistaken for real fossils. Some pseudofossils, such as dendrites, are formed by naturally occurring fissures in the rock that get filled up by percolating minerals. Other types of pseudofossils are kidney ore (round shapes in iron ore) and moss agates, which look like moss or plant leaves. Concretions, spherical or ovoid-shaped nodules found in some sedimentary strata, were once thought to be dinosaur eggs, and are often mistaken for fossils as well.\n\nGathering fossils dates at least to the beginning of recorded history. The fossils themselves are referred to as the fossil record. The fossil record was one of the early sources of data underlying the study of evolution and continues to be relevant to the history of life on Earth. Paleontologists examine the fossil record to understand the process of evolution and the way particular species have evolved.\n\nMany early explanations relied on folktales or mythologies. In China the fossil bones of ancient mammals including \"Homo erectus\" were often mistaken for \"dragon bones\" and used as medicine and aphrodisiacs. In addition, some of these fossil bones are collected as \"art\" by scholars and they left scripts on it, indicating the time they got the collection. One good example is the famous scholar Huang Tingjian of the South Song Dynasty during the 11th century, who kept one seashell fossil with his poem engraved on it. In the West fossilized sea creatures on mountainsides were seen as proof of the biblical deluge.\n\nIn 1027, the Persian Avicenna explained fossils' stoniness in \"The Book of Healing\":\n\nThe Greek scholar Aristotle realized that fossil seashells from rocks were similar to those found on the beach, indicating the fossils were once living animals. Aristotle previously explained it in terms of vaporous exhalations, which Avicenna modified into the theory of petrifying fluids (\"succus lapidificatus\"), later elaborated by Albert of Saxony in the 14th century and accepted in some form by most naturalists by the 16th century.\n\nMore scientific views of fossils emerged during the Renaissance. Leonardo da Vinci concurred with Aristotle's view that fossils were the remains of ancient life. For example, da Vinci noticed discrepancies with the biblical flood narrative as an explanation for fossil origins:\n\nRobert Hooke (1635-1703) included micrographs of fossils in his \"Micrographia\" and was among the first to observe fossil forams. His observations on fossils, which he stated to be the petrified remains of creatures some of which no longer existed, were published posthumously in 1705.\n\nWilliam Smith (1769–1839), an English canal engineer, observed that rocks of different ages (based on the law of superposition) preserved different assemblages of fossils, and that these assemblages succeeded one another in a regular and determinable order. He observed that rocks from distant locations could be correlated based on the fossils they contained. He termed this the principle of \"faunal succession\". This principle became one of Darwin's chief pieces of evidence that biological evolution was real.\n\nGeorges Cuvier came to believe that most if not all the animal fossils he examined were remains of extinct species. This led Cuvier to become an active proponent of the geological school of thought called catastrophism. Near the end of his 1796 paper on living and fossil elephants he said:\n\nInterest in fossils, and geology more generally, expanded during the early nineteenth century. In Britain, Mary Anning's discoveries of fossils, including the first complete ichthyosaur and a complete plesiosaurus skeleton, sparked both public and scholarly interest.\n\nEarly naturalists well understood the similarities and differences of living species leading Linnaeus to develop a hierarchical classification system still in use today. Darwin and his contemporaries first linked the hierarchical structure of the tree of life with the then very sparse fossil record. Darwin eloquently described a process of descent with modification, or evolution, whereby organisms either adapt to natural and changing environmental pressures, or they perish.\n\nWhen Darwin wrote \"On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life\", the oldest animal fossils were those from the Cambrian Period, now known to be about 540 million years old. He worried about the absence of older fossils because of the implications on the validity of his theories, but he expressed hope that such fossils would be found, noting that: \"only a small portion of the world is known with accuracy.\" Darwin also pondered the sudden appearance of many groups (i.e. phyla) in the oldest known Cambrian fossiliferous strata.\n\nSince Darwin's time, the fossil record has been extended to between 2.3 and 3.5 billion years. Most of these Precambrian fossils are microscopic bacteria or microfossils. However, macroscopic fossils are now known from the late Proterozoic. The Ediacara biota (also called Vendian biota) dating from 575 million years ago collectively constitutes a richly diverse assembly of early multicellular eukaryotes.\n\nThe fossil record and faunal succession form the basis of the science of biostratigraphy or determining the age of rocks based on embedded fossils. For the first 150 years of geology, biostratigraphy and superposition were the only means for determining the relative age of rocks. The geologic time scale was developed based on the relative ages of rock strata as determined by the early paleontologists and stratigraphers.\n\nSince the early years of the twentieth century, absolute dating methods, such as radiometric dating (including potassium/argon, argon/argon, uranium series, and, for very recent fossils, radiocarbon dating) have been used to verify the relative ages obtained by fossils and to provide absolute ages for many fossils. Radiometric dating has shown that the earliest known stromatolites are over 3.4 billion years old.\n\nPaleontology has joined with evolutionary biology to share the interdisciplinary task of outlining the tree of life, which inevitably leads backwards in time to Precambrian microscopic life when cell structure and functions evolved. Earth's deep time in the Proterozoic and deeper still in the Archean is only \"recounted by microscopic fossils and subtle chemical signals.\" Molecular biologists, using phylogenetics, can compare protein amino acid or nucleotide sequence homology (i.e., similarity) to evaluate taxonomy and evolutionary distances among organisms, with limited statistical confidence. The study of fossils, on the other hand, can more specifically pinpoint when and in what organism a mutation first appeared. Phylogenetics and paleontology work together in the clarification of science's still dim view of the appearance of life and its evolution.\n\nNiles Eldredge's study of the \"Phacops\" trilobite genus supported the hypothesis that modifications to the arrangement of the trilobite's eye lenses proceeded by fits and starts over millions of years during the Devonian. Eldredge's interpretation of the \"Phacops\" fossil record was that the aftermaths of the lens changes, but not the rapidly occurring evolutionary process, were fossilized. This and other data led Stephen Jay Gould and Niles Eldredge to publish their seminal paper on punctuated equilibrium in 1971.\n\nSynchrotron X-ray tomographic analysis of early Cambrian bilaterian embryonic microfossils yielded new insights of metazoan evolution at its earliest stages. The tomography technique provides previously unattainable three-dimensional resolution at the limits of fossilization. Fossils of two enigmatic bilaterians, the worm-like \"Markuelia\" and a putative, primitive protostome, \"Pseudooides\", provide a peek at germ layer embryonic development. These 543-million-year-old embryos support the emergence of some aspects of arthropod development earlier than previously thought in the late Proterozoic. The preserved embryos from China and Siberia underwent rapid diagenetic phosphatization resulting in exquisite preservation, including cell structures. This research is a notable example of how knowledge encoded by the fossil record continues to contribute otherwise unattainable information on the emergence and development of life on Earth. For example, the research suggests \"Markuelia\" has closest affinity to priapulid worms, and is adjacent to the evolutionary branching of Priapulida, Nematoda and Arthropoda.\n\n\"Fossil trading\" is the practice of buying and selling fossils. This is many times done illegally with artifacts stolen from research sites, costing many important scientific specimens each year. The problem is quite pronounced in China, where many specimens have been stolen.\n\n\"Fossil collecting\" (sometimes, in a non-scientific sense, fossil hunting) is the collection of fossils for scientific study, hobby, or profit. Fossil collecting, as practiced by amateurs, is the predecessor of modern paleontology and many still collect fossils and study fossils as amateurs. Professionals and amateurs alike collect fossils for their scientific value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49662063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49662063", "title": "Genitoplasty", "text": "Genitoplasty\n\nGenitoplasty is plastic surgery to the genitals. Genitoplasties may be reconstructive to repair injuries, and damage arising from cancer treatment, or congenital disorders, endocrine conditions, or they may be cosmetic.\n\nGenitalplasty surgery includes the following:\n\nThe grafts used in genitalplasty can be an allogenic, a heterograph, an autograft, xenograft, or a autologous material.\n\nGenital reconstruction surgery can correct prolapse of the urinary bladder into the vagina and protrusion of the rectum into the vagina. Female infants born with a 46,XX genotype but have genitalia affected by congenital adrenal hyperplasia may undergo the surgical creation of a vagina. Vaginoplasty is commonly used to treat women with the congenital absence of the vagina. Other reasons for the surgery are to treat adrenal hyperplasia, microphallus, Mayer-Rokitansky-Kustner disorder and for women who have had a vaginectomy after malignancy or trauma. Reconstructive and corrective vaginal surgery restores or creates the vagina.\n\nSurgeries to modify the cosmetic appearance of infants' and children's genitals are controversial due to their human rights implications. There is no clinical consensus about necessity, timing, indications or evaluation.\n\n"}
{"id": "57999978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57999978", "title": "Gizzle", "text": "Gizzle\n\nGlenda Proby (born 1987/1988), better known by her stage names Gizzle and Lady G, is an American hip hop songwriter and rapper. Beginning her career as a ghostwriter for Lil' Fizz and Snoop Dogg in 2008, she has since collaborated with a number of prominent artists, particularly Puff Daddy and Ty Dolla Sign. She made her first appearance as a featured artist in 2015, on \"You Can Be My Lover\" from Puff Daddy's album \"MMM\", and released her debut mixtape \"7 Days in Atlanta\" in 2017.\n\nFrom South Los Angeles, Proby showed a talent for writing from a young age, composing poetry and lengthy letters to her father when he was in jail. She started rapping as a teenager under the stage name \"Lady G Da Real Deal\", regularly attending freestyle rap events in Los Angeles and San Bernardino county. She recorded a demo with Rhythm D of Ruthless Records and was offered a recording contract at the age of 17. However, she was encouraged by her manager, Cudda Love, to pursue songwriting for others instead.\n\nIn 2007, she gained her first writing credit on the Lil' Fizz track \"Beds\". She was then invited by producer Teddy Riley to write for Snoop Dogg's 2008 album \"Ego Trippin\"'. She is credited on the tracks \"Gangsta Like Me\" and \"Can't Say Goodbye\", both of which were regularly highlighted in positive reviews of the album.\n\nSince her early work with Riley and Snoop Dogg, Proby has become a prolific hip hop ghostwriter, working with prominent artists including Kanye West, Nicki Minaj, Meek Mill, Boosie Badazz, Kevin Gates, G-Eazy, Iggy Azalea, Trey Songz, Travis Scott and T.I. Two of her most frequent collaborators are Ty Dolla Sign, who she has worked with since 2008, and Puff Daddy (Sean Combs), whose albums \"MMM\" and \"No Way Out 2\" she contributed to extensively.\n\nUnusually for a female writer, Proby writes primarily for male rappers, but has been praised for successfully \"getting inside the heads\" of artists and working closely with them to compose songs that match their personal styles. She is also one of very few prominent queer women in the hip hop industry. Ty Dolla Sign has stated that this is an advantage in the often hypermasculine and hypersexualised world of hip hop, \"you know she gets both sides ’cause Gizzle got bitches too!\"\n\nProby began performing her own songs under the stage name Gizzle in 2011, posting several videos on her YouTube channel. In 2015, she was credited as a featured artist on \"You Can Be My Lover\" from Puff Daddy's album \"MMM.\" The following year, her appearance in the video for the track, as an unexpected \"butch lesbian leading the song, rapping about hollering at women in the middle of a misogynistic smorgasbord,\" became a breakout performance for Gizzle.\n\nGizzle released her debut mixtape, \"7 Days in Atlanta\", in January 2017. The EP was produced in a single, week-long trip to Atlanta, with one of seven songs being recorded each day. Gizzle plans to continue this concept with further \"7 Days\" mixtapes recorded in other cities, including Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Denver. \"Revolt\" described the EP as \"a serious reminder of why [Gizzle] is one of the best in the business.\"\n\nShe is also working on a debut album, titled \"The Jump\", to be released in 2018. She was featured on the Lupe Fiasco track \"Jump\", from \"Drogas Light\", in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "40168276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40168276", "title": "Henry Alexander Davidson", "text": "Henry Alexander Davidson\n\nHenry Alexander Davidson (May 27, 1905 - August 23, 1973) was an American physician, a psychiatric administrator, and a proponent of forensic psychiatry.\n\nDavidson was born on May 27, 1905 in Newark, New Jersey, the son of a physician.\n\nHe earned his undergraduate degree at the Columbia University in Manhattan, New York City. He attended the Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and received his M.D. in 1928. In 1931, he received an M.S. in neuropsychiatry from the University of Pennsylvania. He interned at Beth Israel Medical Center in Newark, New Jersey from 1928 to 1929, and was a resident at the Philadelphia Orthopedic Hospital and Infirmary for Nervous Diseases from 1931 to 1932. He later became a diplomate in psychiatry given by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology.\n\nDavidson was in private practice in Newark for about ten years. With the start of World War II, he entered military service in 1941 and served in the South Pacific. He left the military in 1947 with the rank of Major. He entered the civil service at the Veterans Administration in Newark and worked at the central office in Washington, DC from 1950 to 1954. He then became assistant superintendent of the Essex County Overbrook Hospital, a large mental hospital in New Jersey. He became the superintendent and stayed for twelve years. When he left the hospital in 1969, he returned to his private practice, consulting, and lecturing.\n\nDavidson lectured on medical legal matters at the Columbia University and the University of Virginia. He was a president of the New Jersey Psychiatric Association, president of the New Jersey Academy of Medicine, and president of the New Jersey Medico Legal Society. He served as parliamentarian of the American Psychiatric Association (APA) and wrote on parliamentary procedures. He was editor of \"The Journal of the New Jersey Medical Society\" for 32 years, and was an editor of the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\".\n\nHe died ay his home, 276 Prospect Street in East Orange, New Jersey on August 23, 1973 of coronary thrombosis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28187739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28187739", "title": "Innovation butterfly", "text": "Innovation butterfly\n\nThe innovation butterfly is a metaphor that describes how seemingly minor perturbations (disturbances or changes) to project plans in a system connecting markets, demand, product features, and a firm's capabilities can steer the project, or an entire portfolio of projects, down an irreversible path in terms of technology and market evolution.\n\nThe metaphor was developed by researchers Anderson and Joglekar. It was conceived as a specific instance of the more general 'butterfly effect' encountered in chaos theory.\n\nThe innovation butterfly arises because many innovation systems are made up of a large number of elements that interact with each other via several non-linear feedback loops containing embedded delays, thus constituting a complex system.\n\nPerturbations can come from decisions made within the firm or from those made by its competitors, or they can result from external forces such as government legislation or environmental regulations, or unexpected spikes in the price of oil. How the innovation system evolves as a result of the innovation butterfly can lead ultimately to an innovative firm's success or failure.\n\nComplex systems, in domains such as physics, biology, or sociology, are known to be prone to both path dependence and emergent behavior. What makes the behavior of the innovation butterfly different is market selection, along with biases in individual and group decision making within distributed innovation settings, may influence the emergent behavior. Furthermore, managers in most fields of business endeavor to reduce uncertainty in order to better manage risk. In innovation settings, however, because success is based upon creativity, managers must actively embrace uncertainty. This leads to a management conundrum because innovation managers and management systems must encourage the potential for a butterfly effect but then must also learn how to cope with its aftermath.\n\nHow innovation butterflies are 'chased' is highly managerially relevant. Most butterflies end up 'merely' consuming a considerable amount of time and resources within a project, or for an innovation portfolio, within a firm. However, some butterflies can also unleash regime-altering emergent outcomes within an entire industry segment. Moreover, once these emergent outcomes begin to mature, and in some instances lead to disruptive innovations, they become extremely difficult to manage, Hence, shaping the innovation system before potential innovation butterfly's effects completely emerge is critical.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52486656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52486656", "title": "Intuitive–instrumental grief", "text": "Intuitive–instrumental grief\n\nIntuitive grief and instrumental grief are two patterns of grieving styles identified by psychiatrists Terry Martin and Kenneth Doka. Intuitive and instrumental grief describes two ends of a grieving scale. Individuals who exhibit more qualities of the intuitive grieving style are called intuitive grievers. Individuals who exhibit more qualities of the instrumental grieving style are called instrumental grievers. Common qualities of intuitive grieving are: an internal experience characterized by extreme sadness and pain as well as an outward experience characterized by emotional expression (ex: tears). Common qualities of instrumental grieving are: an internal experience characterized by mental separation from the loss as well as an outward experience characterized by lack of emotion. Identification of an individual’s particular style of grieving is important because an individual’s particular style of grieving helps in creating an adequate treatment plan to assist the individual in coping with his or her loss.\n\nIndividuals who experience more qualities related to the intuitive grieving style experience and express their grief primarily through affect. Intuitive grievers develop more extreme emotional symptoms and cope with their loss mainly by sharing their feelings with others. These individuals are more likely to seek and/or accept community support through events such as self-help groups or one-on-one grief therapy.\n\nIndividuals who experience more qualities related to the instrumental grieving style are less likely to express emotion and often desire to rather master their feelings developed from the loss as well as master their surrounding environment. These individuals are marked by a more cognitive, problem-solving approach and are more likely to direct their energy into activities. Though instrumental grievers perceive loss more as a challenge to overcome rather than a threat, anger is usually the most readily expressed feeling.\n\nIntuitive and instrumental grieving are two extreme styles of grieving located on a continuum. Because of this, it is rare to find people who belong purely to one style of a grieving pattern. The middle area between extreme intuitive grieving and extreme instrumental grieving is called blended grieving. People who exhibit qualities of both the intuitive grieving style as well as the instrumental grieving style are identified as blended grievers. Through blended grieving, a person naturally expresses grief in both cognitive (instrumental) and affective (intuitive) ways, however one style of grief is usually more dominant than the other.\n\nMartin and Doka’s first work on intuitive and instrumental grieving in 1996 emphasized “masculine” and “feminine” grief. Many of Martin and Doka’s readers began confusing the masculine and feminine identification of grieving styles with male and female gender association. Intuitive and instrumental grieving patterns have been found to be gender related, however are not gender determined therefore “masculine” grieving was renamed to “instrumental” while “feminine” grieving was renamed to “intuitive”. The assumption that males are supposed to grieve through instrumental ways and that females are supposed to grieve through intuitive ways is related to male and female sex roles that are taught and reinforced within a person’s culture. Traditionally, men have been raised to be more decisive, strong, successful and inexpressive which tends to lead males to be more private, intellectual and introspective in their grief; certain qualities associated with the instrumental grieving style. In addition, women have traditionally been raised to be more passive, dependent and emotionally expressive than males which tends to lead women to act as such in times of grief; aspects associated with the intuitive grieving style. Though there is correlation between gender and style of grieving, no pairing of gender and styles of grieving is right or wrong just as no particular style of grieving in general is right or wrong for an individual.\n"}
{"id": "1561787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561787", "title": "Islero", "text": "Islero\n\nIslero was a Miura bull famed for killing the celebrated bullfighter Manolete on August 28, 1947. Bulls from the Miura ranch, located near Seville, Spain, are known for being large and ferocious.\n\nIslero had poor eyesight and tended to chop with his right horn. On the fateful day, he was the fifth bull of the afternoon, and the second for Manolete, at a bullfight in the town of Linares in the province of Jaén, Andalucía, Spain. The bull's manager begged Manolete to finish him off quickly; as the \"matador\" reached over the bull's horns, thrusting his \"estoque\" (sword) deep up to its hilt, Islero thrust his right horn into Manolete's groin, severing his femoral artery. The bullfighter was rushed to hospital, but died on the operating table later that evening.\n\nItalian automaker Lamborghini named one of its grand tourers \"Islero\" as part of the company's tradition of naming its cars after Miura bulls and with other bullfighting-related terms.\n\nThe Spanish project to build nuclear weapons was named Proyecto Islero.\n\n"}
{"id": "271590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271590", "title": "It (novel)", "text": "It (novel)\n\nIt is a 1986 horror novel by American author Stephen King. It was his 22nd book, and his 18th novel written under his own name. The story follows the experiences of seven children as they are terrorized by an entity that exploits the fears and phobias of its victims to disguise itself while hunting its prey. \"It\" primarily appears in the form of 'Pennywise the Dancing Clown' to attract its preferred prey of young children.\n\nThe novel is told through narratives alternating between two periods, and is largely told in the third-person omniscient mode. \"It\" deals with themes that eventually became King staples: the power of memory, childhood trauma and its recurrent echoes in adulthood, the ugliness lurking behind a façade of small-town quaintness, and overcoming evil through mutual trust and sacrifice.\n\nKing has stated that he first conceived the story in 1978, and began writing it in 1981. He also stated that he originally wanted the title character to be a troll like the one in the children's story \"Three Billy Goats Gruff\", but who inhabited the local sewer system rather than just the area beneath one bridge. He also wanted the story to interweave the stories of children and the adults they later become.\n\nThe novel won the British Fantasy Award in 1987, and received nominations for the Locus and World Fantasy Awards that same year. \"Publishers Weekly\" listed \"It\" as the best-selling book in the United States in 1986.\nIt has been adapted into a 1990 two-part miniseries directed by Tommy Lee Wallace, and into a two-part film duology directed by Andy Muschietti; \"It: Chapter One\" was released in 2017 and \"It: Chapter Two\" will be released in 2019.\n\n\"The novel alternates between two timelines, often mid-chapter. The plot is described here in a linear order.\"\n\nDuring a heavy rainstorm in Derry, Maine, six-year-old George \"Georgie\" Denbrough is chasing a paper boat that was given to him by his older brother, Bill, down a gutter. The boat is washed down a storm drain and Georgie peers in, seeing a pair of glowing yellow eyes. Georgie is confronted by a man dressed in a silver clown suit who introduces himself as \"Mr. Bob Gray\", a.k.a. \"Pennywise the Dancing Clown\". Pennywise offers Georgie a balloon which he cautiously refuses. The clown then entices Georgie to reach into the drain to retrieve his boat; he then severs Georgie's arm and leaves him to bleed to death.\n\nThe following June, Benjamin \"Ben\" Hanscom, an overweight eleven-year-old boy, is harassed by a gang of bullies led by the feared Henry Bowers. On the last day of school, Ben hides from his tormentors in the Barrens after an altercation with the Bowers Gang. Ben befriends Edward \"Eddie\" Kaspbrak and William \"Bill\" Denbrough, Georgie's older brother. The three boys later befriend fellow misfits Richard \"Richie\" Tozier, Stanley \"Stan\" Uris, and Beverly \"Bev\" Marsh, forming the \"Losers Club\". In July of the same summer, the Losers are joined by Michael \"Mike\" Hanlon.\n\nAs the summer draws on, the Losers realize that they have each had an encounter with a seemingly omniscient, prehistoric shape-shifting alien entity which takes the form of whatever they fear the most: Ben saw him as a mummy, Eddie as a leper, Bill as Georgie's ghost, Richie as a werewolf, Stan as two drowned boys, Mike as a flesh-eating bird that vaguely resembles Rodan, and Beverly as a fountain of blood spurting from her bathroom sink. Due to the unknown origin of the monster, the Losers refer to the creature as \"It\" and link It with a series of recent child murders, including that of Edward \"Eddie\" Corcoran, who is killed by the monster in the form of the Gill-man.\n\nThe Losers begin to suspect that It has control over Derry due to the number of unsolved disappearances and violent tragedies which go unnoticed or seem to be forgotten by the adults in the town. They begin to investigate It's origins, discovering that It is immortal and arrived in Derry millions of years ago. The Losers also learned that It awakens every 27 years from a slumber in the town's sewers, usually after a terrible event or tragedy, and feeds for 12 to 16 months.\n\nThe Losers decide to put an end to It and Ben makes two silver slugs out of a silver dollar, believing that silver will harm It. The kids go to the house on Neibolt Street where Eddie, Bill, and Richie had previously encountered It. It attacks them in the form of a werewolf. However, Beverly shoots a slug from Bill's slingshot, injuring It, and causing It to flee back to the sewers. Two weeks later, Beverly returns home, where her abusive father attacks her and attempts to rape and kill her. Beverly manages to escape. Henry, accompanied by his two closest friends, Victor \"Vic\" Criss and Reginald \"Belch\" Huggins, chases the Losers into the sewers, with the intention of killing them.\n\nThe narrative changes and \"It\" informs the reader that it existed originally in a void between our universe and others, in a dimension known as the Macroverse. It boasts of its own superiority to anything on planet Earth. It also explains that it chooses to prey on children, because their fears are easier to interpret in a physical form. It expresses its own fear that It might not be the only eternal being in existence. It suspects there might be Another, and that the children could be the agents of this Other. This might explain their power and unprecedented ability to harm It.\n\nBack in the sewers, It attacks the three bullies in the form of Frankenstein's monster, ripping Vic's head off and mutilating Belch's face. Henry, driven insane from seeing his friends killed, chases after the Losers and gets lost. He eventually washes out of the sewers into a nearby river and is blamed for all of the child murders. Meanwhile, Bill discovers the \"Ritual of Chüd\", allowing him to enter the Macroverse to confront It and discover It's true form; a mass of destructive orange lights referred to as the \"Deadlights\". During the ritual, Bill also encounters \"The Turtle\", an ancient being, possibly more ancient than It, that created the universe while vomiting after a stomach-ache. The Turtle explains that It can only be defeated during a battle of wills. Through it Bill also learns of yet another being: the Final Other. This Other is a force beyond the universe, the creator of the Turtle, and maybe even It. With the help of The Turtle, Bill is able to defeat It and send it back to its slumber. After the battle, the Losers get lost in the sewers until Beverly has sex with all the boys to connect childhood and adulthood while bringing unity back to the group. The Losers swear a blood oath to return to Derry, should It return in the future.\n\nIn July 1984, at the annual Derry carnival, three youths brutally attack a gay man named Adrian Mellon and throw him off a bridge. The boys are arrested and charged with murder when Mellon's mutilated corpse is found. One of the boys claims that he saw a clown dressed in a silver suit kill Mellon underneath the bridge. Adrian's boyfriend, the other victim in the attack, had also noticed the clown but the prosecutors convince him not to mention it during the trial.\n\nWhen a string of child murders occurs in Derry once again, an adult Mike Hanlon, now the town's librarian and the only one of the Losers to remain in Derry, calls up the six former members of the Losers Club, all now in their thirties, and reminds them of their childhood promise to return should the killings start again. Bill Denbrough is now a successful horror writer living in England with his actress wife, Audra. Beverly Marsh is a fashion designer in Chicago, and is married to an abusive man named Tom Rogan. Eddie Kaspbrak has moved to New York City, where he runs a limousine rental company and has married a hysterical, codependent woman similar to his controlling mother. Richie Tozier lives in Los Angeles and works as a disc jockey. Ben Hanscom is now thin and a successful architect, living in Nebraska. Stan Uris is a wealthy accountant residing in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nPrior to Mike's phone calls, the Losers had buried the horror of their encounters with It. However, all but Stan reluctantly agree to return to Derry. After Mike's phone call, Stan is so terrified of facing It again that he slits his wrists in the bathtub, writing \"IT\" on the wall in his own blood. Tom refuses to let Beverly go and tries to beat her, but she lashes out at him before fleeing, causing him serious injury. The five return to Derry with only the slightest awareness of why they are doing so, remembering only the absolute terror and their promise to return.\n\nThe Losers meet for lunch, where Mike reminds them that It awakens once roughly every 27 years for 12–16 months at a time, feeding on children before going into slumber again. The group decides to kill It once and for all. At Mike's suggestion, each person explores different parts of Derry to help restore their memories. While exploring, Eddie, Richie, Beverly, and Ben are faced with manifestations of It (Eddie as Belch Huggins in leper form, Richie as a Paul Bunyan statue, Beverly as the witch from Hansel & Gretel, and Ben in the form of Dracula). Bill finds his childhood Schwinn, \"Silver\", and brings it to Mike's.\n\nThree other people are also converging on the town: Audra, who is worried about Bill; Tom, who plans to kill Beverly; and Henry Bowers, who has escaped from Juniper Hill Mental Asylum with help from It. Mike and Henry have a violent confrontation at the library. Mike is nearly killed but Henry escapes, severely injured. Henry is driven to the hotel where It instructs him to kill the rest of the Losers. Henry attacks Eddie, breaking his arm once again, but in the fight, Henry is killed.\n\nIt appears to Tom and orders him to capture Audra. Tom brings Audra to It's lair. Upon seeing It's true form, Audra becomes catatonic and Tom drops dead from shock. Bill, Ben, Beverly, Richie, and Eddie learn that Mike is near death and realize they are being forced into another confrontation with It. They descend into the sewers and use their strength as a group to \"send energy\" to a hospitalized Mike, who fights off a nurse that is under the control of It. They reach It's lair and find It has taken the form of a giant spider. Bill and Richie enter It's mind through the Ritual of Chüd. Bill is initially dismayed to learn that the Turtle is now dead and almost loses to despair. But with Richie's help, the two of them manage to injure It. Eddie helps successfully bring Bill and Richie back from the Ritual, but in the process It rips off Eddie's arm, killing him. It runs away to tend to its injuries, but Bill, Richie, and Ben chase after It and find that It has laid eggs. Ben stays behind to destroy the eggs, while Bill and Richie head toward their final confrontation with It. Bill fights his way inside its body, locates It's heart and destroys it. As It writhes in the clear throes of death, Bill hears the voice of the Other complimenting him on his victory. The group meets up to head out of its lair, and although they try to bring Audra and Eddie's bodies with them, they are forced to leave Eddie behind. They make it to the surface and realize that the scars on their hands from when they were children have disappeared, indicating that their ordeal is finally over.\n\nDuring the Ritual, the worst storm in Maine's history sweeps through Derry, destroying most of the buildings as the downtown area collapses. Mike concludes that Derry is finally dying. Richie returns to LA, Ben and Beverly leave town together, and while Mike is in the hospital, Bill stays in Mike's house to look after Audra in hopes she will snap out of her catatonic state. The Losers gradually begin to forget about It, Derry, and each other. Mike's memory of his friends and events with It also begins to fade, as well as his Derry memoir and journal, much to his relief, and he considers starting a new life elsewhere. Before Bill leaves Derry, he takes Audra, still catatonic, for a ride on Silver, rushing through downtown Derry like he did as a kid. Audra awakens from her catatonia with no recollection of what happened upon arriving in Maine and she and Bill kiss.\n\nThe Losers Club is a group of seven eleven-year-old misfit children who are united by their unhappy lives. They share the same misery and torment from being the victims of a gang of local bullies led by the increasingly sociopathic Henry Bowers and band together as they struggle to overcome It. The seven children find themselves caught up in a nefarious situation, which they cannot quite comprehend but against which they must fight.\n\n\nDescribed as a mysterious, prehistoric entity from beyond time and space, It is a monster of unknown origin that preys on Derry's residents every twenty-seven years, stating It finds the fear in children akin to \"salt(ing) the meat\". Among It's powers is shapeshifting into a form that induces fear while killing the victim, normally assuming the form of a middle-aged man dressed in a clown costume, calling itself \"Pennywise the Dancing Clown\" and occasionally Bob or Robert Gray, modeled after Bozo, Clarabell and Ronald McDonald.\n\nIt can also manipulate people and use them as pawns in doing its bidding, either by assuming a form most familiar to them, promising them their desires or through subliminal influence. Because of this control over what happens in Derry, many of the child murders It commits are never solved; the adults of Derry act as though either nothing is happening or they have forgotten about It. It's true form as perceived by the human eye is that of a giant spider that houses its essence: writhing orange lights (termed \"Deadlights\"). Looking directly into the lights can either kill a person or drive them insane.\n\nBoth It's awakening and its return to hibernation mark the greatest instances of violence during its time awake. In one example, It caused the disappearance of over three hundred settlers from Derry Township in 1740–43. In 1957, It awoke during a great storm which flooded part of the city, whereupon It went on a feeding spree, starting by killing Georgie Denbrough. However, the Losers Club forced It to return to an early hibernation when it was heavily wounded by the young Bill Denbrough in the first Ritual of Chüd. As the story opens, It has awakened approximately 27 years later and is first seen when three bullies beat up a homosexual couple, Adrian Mellon and Don Hagarty. It kills Adrian after the bullies throw him off of a bridge.\n\nWhen the adult members of the Losers Club gather, It recognizes them as a threat and resolves to drive them away both through illusions and by seeking help from Henry Bowers, the Losers' long-time childhood bully. Bill, Richie, Beverly, Eddie, and Ben manage to confront It's spider form after It arranges to have Audra in its possession. It is finally killed in the second Ritual of Chüd, and an enormous storm damages the downtown part of Derry to symbolize It's death. In the novel \"Dreamcatcher\", when Mr. Gray tries to put a worm in Derry's water by use of the Standpipe, It is no longer there due to the 1985 flood. In its place is a memorial featuring a cast-bronze statue of two children and a plaque underneath, dedicated to the victims of the 1985 flood and of It. The plaque has been vandalized with graffiti reading, \"PENNYWISE LIVES\".\n\nThe character has been named by several outlets as one of the scariest clowns in film or pop culture.\n\nThe Bowers Gang is a group of seven twelve-year-old neighborhood bullies who attend the same school as and are the worst enemies of the Losers Club after It. The gang is led by the crazed and mischievous Henry Bowers, while also being co-led by Henry's two best friends and sidekicks, the smarter and more moral Victor \"Vic\" Criss and the unusually larger, stronger, and more slow-witted Reginald \"Belch\" Huggins. Although the fates of three of them (Peter Gordon, Steve \"Moose\" Sadler, Gard Jagermeyer) were never made official, it is stated in the novel that the remaining child murders during the summer of 1958 after that of minor character Jimmy Cullum were of all of Henry's friends, creating the assumption that they were attacked and killed by It (possibly as means to worsen Henry's sociopathism).\n\n\n\nOn December 13, 2011, Cemetery Dance published a special limited edition of \"It\" for the 25th anniversary of the novel () in three editions: an unsigned limited gift edition of 2,750, a signed limited edition of 750, and a signed and lettered limited edition of 52. All three editions are oversized hardcovers, housed in a slipcase or traycase, and feature premium binding materials. This anniversary edition features a new dust jacket illustration by Glen Orbik, as well as numerous interior illustrations by Alan M. Clark and Erin Wells. The book also contains a new afterword by Stephen King discussing his reasons for writing the novel.\n\nIn 1990, the novel was adapted into a television miniseries starring Tim Curry as Pennywise the Clown, John Ritter as Ben Hanscom, Harry Anderson as Richie Tozier, Richard Masur as Stan Uris, Tim Reid as Mike Hanlon, Annette O'Toole as Beverly Marsh, Richard Thomas as Bill Denbrough, Olivia Hussey as Audra Phillips, Dennis Christopher as Eddie Kaspbrak, and Michael Cole as Henry Bowers. The younger versions of the characters were played by Brandon Crane (Ben), Seth Green (Richie), Ben Heller (Stan), Marlon Taylor (Mike), Emily Perkins (Beverly), Jonathan Brandis (Bill), Adam Faraizl (Eddie), and Jarred Blancard (Henry). The miniseries was directed by Tommy Lee Wallace and scripted by Wallace and Lawrence D. Cohen.\n\nThe first of a two-part feature film adaptation, \"It\", was released on September 8, 2017. It is directed by Andy Muschietti, with a screenplay by Chase Palmer, Cary Fukunaga and Gary Dauberman. Instead of a dual narrative, the first film is solely an adaptation of the section that features the characters as children, though the setting has been updated to the late 1980s. It stars Bill Skarsgård as Pennywise and Jaeden Lieberher as Bill Denbrough. Supporting roles are played by Finn Wolfhard as Richie Tozier, Sophia Lillis as Bevery Marsh, Jack Dylan Grazer as Eddie Kaspbrak, Wyatt Oleff as Stanley Uris, Chosen Jacobs as Mike Hanlon, Jeremy Ray Taylor as Ben Hanscom, Owen Teague as Patrick Hockstetter, Nicholas Hamilton as Henry Bowers, Logan Thompson as Vic Criss and Jake Sim as Belch Huggins.\n\nThe second film, yet to be produced, will adapt the \"adult\" section and update the setting to the 2010s. It will star James McAvoy (Bill), Bill Hader (Richie), Jessica Chastain (Beverly), James Ransone (Eddie), Andy Bean (Stan), Isaiah Mustafa (Mike), and Jay Ryan (Ben). Skarsgård will reprise the role of Pennywise and the younger actors are set to return as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "36993318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36993318", "title": "J. Christopher Stevens", "text": "J. Christopher Stevens\n\nJohn Christopher Stevens (April 18, 1960 – September 11, 2012) was an American career diplomat and lawyer who served as the U.S. Ambassador to Libya from May 22, 2012 to September 11, 2012. Stevens was killed when the U.S. Special Mission in Benghazi, Libya, was attacked by militants on September 11–12, 2012. \n\nStevens was the eighth U.S. Ambassador to be killed while in office.\n\nStevens was born on April 18, 1960 in Grass Valley, California, the eldest of three siblings born to Jan S. Stevens, a California Assistant Attorney General, and his wife Mary J. Stevens (née Floris), from a West Coast family of French, Swedish and Chinook ancestry. Stevens was raised in Northern California and had two younger siblings, Anne (b. 1962) and Thomas (b. 1965).\n\nStevens' parents divorced in 1975, and both remarried. He had a half-sister, Hilary (b. 1980), from his father's second marriage. His mother, a cellist, joined the Marin Symphony Orchestra (1969—2004), and in 1976 married Robert Commanday, a music critic with the \"San Francisco Chronicle\".\n\nStevens was an AFS Intercultural Programs exchange student in Spain during summer of 1977, and graduated from Piedmont High School in 1978. He earned a B.A. in history in 1982 at the University of California, Berkeley, where he was a member of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity. From 1983 to 1985, he taught English as a Peace Corps volunteer in Morocco. He graduated with a J.D. from the University of California, Hastings College of the Law in 1989, and received an M.S. degree from the National War College in 2010.\n\nPrior to joining the United States Foreign Service, Stevens was an international trade lawyer based in Washington, D.C. He was admitted as an active member of the State Bar of California on January 26, 1990; he went on inactive status on August 1, 1991, and remained an inactive member for the remainder of his career.\n\nStevens joined the United States Foreign Service in 1991. His early overseas assignments included: deputy principal officer and political section chief in Jerusalem; political officer in Damascus; consular/political officer in Cairo and consular/economic officer in Riyadh. In Washington, Stevens served as Director of the Office of Multilateral Nuclear and Security Affairs; Pearson Fellow with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and Senator Richard Lugar; special assistant to the Under Secretary for Political Affairs; Iran desk officer and staff assistant in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs.\n\nHe had served in Libya twice previously: as the Deputy Chief of Mission (from 2007 to 2009) and as Special Representative to the National Transitional Council (from March 2011 to November 2011) during the Libyan revolution. He arrived in Tripoli in May 2012 as the U.S. Ambassador to Libya.\n\nStevens spoke English, French and some Arabic.\n\nDuring the 2012 Benghazi attack, a fire was set against the main consulate building with three Americans inside—Stevens, Sean Smith, and a security officer. According to U.S. officials, the security officer escaped and the staff found Smith dead. However, the staff were unable to locate Stevens before being driven from the building under small-arms fire. Local civilians found Stevens and brought him to the Benghazi Medical Centre in a state of cardiac arrest. Medical personnel tried to resuscitate him, but he was pronounced dead at about 2 a.m. local time on September 12, 2012. Later reports suggested that the attack was coordinated and planned in advance, with any protests either coincidental or possibly diversionary. Libyan president Muhammad Magariaf blamed elements of Ansar al-Sharia for the killing, linking them to Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. Libyan officials suggested that it might have been a revenge attack mounted by loyalists (of deceased Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi) who were defeated in the Libyan Civil War the previous year.\nThe surviving Americans were taken to a safe house. A rescue squad consisting of eight U.S. military or former military was sent from Tripoli, the capital. They were ambushed and the safe house came under attack. Two more Americans died, including one sent from Tripoli; several were wounded. Later reports identified the victims as Tyrone S. Woods and Glen A. Doherty, both former Navy SEALs working as security and intelligence contractors.\n\nStevens is buried in Forester's Cemetery in Grass Valley, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41384712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41384712", "title": "Jack Barton", "text": "Jack Barton\n\nJack Barton (birth unknown - death unknown) was an English professional rugby league footballer who played for Wigan between 1901 and 1910.\n\nBorn in Standish, Barton started his career with local side Standish South End before signing for Wigan in 1901. He made his début for Wigan in December 1901 against Altrincham at Springfield Park. Barton also played in the Wigan's first match at Central Park against Batley in 1902. Barton spent nine years at Wigan, playing 213 first team games for the club and scoring 15 tries.\n\nJack Barton played , i.e. number 4 (in a 15-player team), in Wigan's 0-0 draw with Leigh in the 1905 Lancashire County Cup Final during the 1905–06 season at Wheater's Field, Broughton, on Saturday 2 December 1905, played in the 8-0 victory over Leigh in the 1905 Lancashire County Cup Final replay during the 1905–06 season at Wheater's Field, Broughton, on Monday 11 December 1905, played left-, i.e. number 8, in the 10-9 victory over Oldham in the 1908 Lancashire County Cup Final during the 1908–09 season at Wheater's Field, Broughton, on Saturday 19 December 1908, and played in the 22-5 victory over Leigh in the 1909 Lancashire County Cup Final during the 1909–10 season at Wheater's Field, Broughton, on Saturday 27 November 1909.\n\nWigan\n\nChampionship (1): 1908–09\n\nLancashire County League (2): 1901–02, 1908–09\n\nLancashire County Cup (3): 1905, 1908, 1909\n\nSouth West Lancashire League (2): 1904–05, 1905–06\n\n"}
{"id": "31650919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31650919", "title": "Jak Airport", "text": "Jak Airport\n\nJak Airport (born Jack Stafford; c. 1955 – August 13, 2004) was the guitarist of 1970s punk band X-Ray Spex and new wave band Classix Nouveaux, before retiring from music and working for Vision Video and the BBC.\n\nBorn and raised in Catford, London, Jak Airport is best known and remembered for being member of punk rock band X-Ray Spex, contributing with songs like \"Oh Bondage Up Yours!\" and \"The Day The World Turned Day-Glo\".\n\nThe beginning riff of the latter song was considered a classic by the band's singer Poly Styrene. He joined the band after leaving another punk group called Puncture. When X-Ray Spex disbanded in 1979, he and the group's bassist Paul Dean formed Airport and Dean.\n\nIn 1979, he and fellow X-Ray Spex member, drummer BP Hurding formed, alongside singer Sal Solo, the new wave band Classix Nouveaux, but he had left the band by the end of the year. He retired from the music industry then worked at VVL London and also in the BBC's corporate and public relations department.\n\nJack Stafford died of cancer on 13 August 2004.\n"}
{"id": "5567171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5567171", "title": "James Fraser Forbes", "text": "James Fraser Forbes\n\nJames Fraser Forbes (1820 – 18 May 1887) was a Canadian politician and a member of the House of Commons of Canada for the riding of Queens in Nova Scotia.\n\nHe was born in Gibraltar in 1820, the son of Anthony V.S. Forbes. He worked as a physician and as a surgeon, also serving as surgeon to the local militia, coroner for Queen's County and Health Officer for Liverpool. Forbes married Sarah Jane Jacobs. He was elected to the 1st Canadian Parliament as a member of the Anti-Confederation Party. He became a Liberal on January 30, 1869 and was re-elected to the 2nd and 3rd Canadian Parliaments. He was defeated in 1878, but he was re-elected in 1882. In 1874, he was elected president of the Bank of Liverpool.\n\nForbes died in Lunenburg in 1887.\n\nHis son Francis Gordon also served as a member of the House of Commons. His daughter Sarah was a nursing sister who served with the Canadian contingent during the Boer War.\n"}
{"id": "4766564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4766564", "title": "Jiro Sato", "text": "Jiro Sato\n\nHe received worldwide fame in Wimbledon 1932, when he beat the defending champion Sidney Wood at the quarterfinal. In the semifinal, he lost to Bunny Austin. His peak came in 1933, when he beat Fred Perry in the French Open quarterfinal. He was ranked World No. 3 by A. Wallis Myers of \"The Daily Telegraph\", behind Jack Crawford and Fred Perry. However, it got more and more difficult for him to endure the enormous pressure from Japan. It is believed that pressure drove him to throw himself overboard into the Strait of Malacca on April 5, 1934, at 26 years of age.\n\nHe debuted on the international tennis scene in 1929 when the touring Racing Club de Paris visited Japan for a series of exhibition matches. He notably defeated tennis legends Jacques Brugnon, Raymond Rodel and Pierre Henri Landry, only losing to Henri Cochet.\n\nIn 1930 he was the runner-up for the Japanese championships, which he finally did win the next year. Also in 1930 he was a runner-up for the Mid-Pacific Invitational tournament losing to American Cranston Holman and the doubles final as well.\n\nIn 1931 he lost the Miramar L. T. C. title in Juan-les-Pins against his brother Hyotare Sato, won the doubles, and was a finalist in mixed doubles. He clinched the West-England Championship in singles and doubles. He was defeated by Jean Borotra for the British Covered Court Championships title. He partnered his brother to gain the Beau Site Club de Cannes second meeting trophy and the St. Raphaël T.C. title. In singles competition he claimed the Country Club de Monte-Carlo second meeting title (the same tournament in which the Sato brothers reached the doubles final). He became Dutch doubles champion alongside Minoru Kawachi. In July he beat Vernon Kirby for the Tunbridge Wells Championship. He captured the Midland Counties Championships in singles and mixed doubles the same month and only losing the doubles final.\n\nBetween July and November 1931 he won 13 singles titles in Great Britain. He met Fred Perry twice for the Pacific Southwest Championships title in 1932 and 1933, losing both times. In August 1933 he partnered compatriot Ryosuke Nunoi to win the doubles title at the German Championships in Hamburg.\n\nFrom 1931 to 1933 Sato played in ten ties for the Japanese Davis Cup team and won 22 rubbers and lost only six, compiling a 79% winning record.\n\nSato played with a flat forehand drive which he modeled after Henri Cochet when Cochet visited Japan in 1929. He hit the ball on the forehand side early after the bounce and he was an excellent volleyer.\n\nJiro Sato attended to Waseda University and studied economics. He abandoned his studies in 1933 to pursue tennis. He had an elder brother, Hyotare Sato, who was also a tennis player. He was engaged to Sanae Okada in 1934, one of Japan's best female tennis players.\n\nOn April 4, 1934, Jiro Sato was on the ship \"N.Y.K. Hakone Maru\" crossing the Strait of Malacca to Europe for a Davis Cup match against the Australia Davis Cup team in the second round of the 1934 International Lawn Tennis Challenge. Earlier in the day he complained of stomach pains and thus had no appetite and kept to his cabin. He considered leaving the ship at Singapore, which he did for a medical examination. The exam revealed no reasons for his health problems and it was concluded that his problems were psychological. Sato was nervous and feared that his illness would be an obstacle for his team to win. As the day passed, the Japan Davis Cup team was given a banquet hosted by the Japanese consul to Singapore. Sato was present and was further pushed by the consul and his teammates to proceed with the trip and sail to Europe. That same day a cable was received from the Japanese Lawn Tennis Association insisting on Sato's participation in the Davis Cup and that the voyage should be resumed without delay.\n\nAt 11:30 p.m. on April 5, 1934, before reaching Penang, Sato was found missing by his compatriot Jiro Yamagishi. The last time he was seen was at 8:30 p.m. when he had dinner in his cabin. He left two suicide notes, one to his Japanese tennis teammates expressing doubts that he would be able to help the team in the upcoming contest. He begged them to forgive him and do their best to prevail in the match. He promised he would be with his colleagues in spirit. The other note was addressed to the ship's captain, apologizing for the inconveniences that his actions might cause. A search for him continued for seven more hours and the vessel hovered in the strait. Wireless messages were sent to nearby ships. Later further evidence was found which confirmed the suicide theory. Two iron davit-winding handles and a training skip-rope were missing, which Sato probably used to tie weights on himself to make sure he would drown. After discovery of the new evidence, the ship sent out a radio message stating that \"Japan's finest tennis player and national hero was believed to have committed suicide by throwing himself overboard\". On April 6, a prayer was ministered by his friends who assembled on the deck of the ship. An altar was built on board with photographs and racquets of Sato around it. Also a traditional Japanese \"cake offering\" ceremony was held. It was speculated that the pressure on him came from the growing prestige of the Japanese Empire and from the Japanese Lawn Tennis Association who refused to allow the exhausted Sato to have a break from tennis and skip the 1934 season. He became depressed and concerned about his abilities.\n\nSeveral world class players reacted to the event. Fred Perry said that Sato was \"one of the cheeriest men he had ever known\". Bunny Austin added that \"He had a great sense of humor...He always gave the impression that he would be the last man on earth to come to such an end\". Ryuki Miki took over as captain of the Davis Cup team and went on to win the 1934 Wimbledon Championships mixed doubles title the same year. Miki stated Sato was a joyful person who loved jokes and making people laugh. His fiancée recalled that Sato hoped he could stay at Singapore. She further added: \"I believe Jiro committed suicide solely from a sense of responsibility after he had acceded to the tennis association's urgings to proceed to Europe, even when he wanted to return from Singapore. To the end of my life I shall regret that it was the order of the Japanese Lawn Tennis Association that resulted in his death. Jiro was a man of honor and he played every time for the honor of Japan.\" His brother Hyotare Sato addressed a call for the Japanese team to not cancel their match and to fight their hardest.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34853535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34853535", "title": "Jules Irving", "text": "Jules Irving\n\nJules Irving (né Julius Israel; April 13, 1925 – July 28, 1979) was an American actor, director, educator, and producer, who in the 1950s co-founded the San Francisco Actor's Workshop. When the Actor's Workshop closed in 1966, Irving moved to New York City and became the first Producing Director of the Repertory Company of the Vivian Beaumont Theater of Lincoln Center.\n\nIn 1955, the Actor's Workshop was the first West Coast theater to sign an Equity \"Off-Broadway\" contract. Irving had started the Workshop with fellow New Yorker Herbert Blau, whom he knew from undergraduate days at New York University and then during graduate study at Stanford University. Both men were both professors at San Francisco State, Irving, in the Drama department and Blau in English.\n\nIrving was from childhood deeply involved in theater, supported in this by his family along with his older brother Richard, despite a degree of religious reservation inculcated by bizarre bearded Russian/Yiddish-speaking rabbinical teachers that dis-inspired what Irving called a \"lost generation\" of the children of Jewish immigrants.\n\nHe was active in school shows and made his Broadway debut at the age of thirteen in George S. Kaufman's \"The American Way\". He joined the army in 1943, serving in the infantry during the Battle of the Bulge and as a Russian translator when his unit met Soviet forces. After V-E Day, he transferred to Special Services and had the opportunity to hone his theater managerial skills as he organized camp shows under Joshua Logan.\n\nFrom its inception on January 16, 1952 in a loft above a judo academy on Divisadero Street in San Francisco to its formal demise in 1966, the Actor's Workshop set new standards as a pioneer of resident professional art theater in the United States.\n\nAmong those present in 1952 for a \"study group\" or \"workshop\" were Irving, Blau, their wives, Priscilla Pointer and Beatrice Manley; Hal J. Todd, who had been at Stanford with Irving and Blau; Richard Glyer, an instructor at San Francisco State University; Paul Cox, an aspiring playwright; and S.F. State student Dan Whiteside. Irving was \"managing director\"; he shared artistic leadership with Blau.\n\nIrving guided the theater's finances and led primary day-by-day operations of the company's growth to its Elgin Street playhouse and then to offices on Folsom Street and two year-round theaters, the Encore and the Marines' Memorial. A major transition occurred in 1956 when the Workshop was evicted from Elgin Street to make room for a new freeway. The company had an option to renew its lease on the Marines' Memorial Theater but no money. A young Canadian, Alan Mandell, who as volunteer Business Manager (and \"de facto\" chief executive with Irving) helped inaugurate the first subscription season for the Actor's Workshop.\n\nIrving and Blau were insistent idealists who developed the Workshop in the tradition of the Group Theatre of the 1930s; they and key company members were dedicated to principles of social responsibility and ensemble artistry. The troupe's repertoire focused initially on Miller and other modern American writers, such as Odets, O'Neill, and Tennessee Williams, but soon expanded to the contemporary world dramas of Samuel Beckett, Brecht, Genet, John Osborne, Yukio Mishima, and Harold Pinter.\n\nRespected as an actor as well as director, Irving played major roles, including Proctor in \"The Crucible\" and Happy in \"Death of a Salesman\" (which he also directed) in the Workshop's productions of Arthur Miller plays. When the Workshop produced the west coast premiere of Beckett's \"Waiting for Godot\", Irving was the loquacious servant, Lucky.\n\nThe production played to the Workshop's regular audiences, then performed for inmates at San Quentin prison and on to the 1958 Brussels World's Fair where it represented American theater under the aegis of the US State Department. \n\nThe travel to Brussels was not without incident. Irving was informed that the Workshop would need to fund its own travel to get to Belgium. After weeks of fund-raising and while the company was still in New York, he received word that it would be \"inadvisable\" for a particular stage manager to travel on to Brussels. The opaque State Department communications left Irving and Blau to speculate while officials would not go on record that perhaps some liberal activity had brought negative attention down on the respected company member. The Workshop protested but in the end, feeling a responsibility to San Franciscans who had provided travel funds, proceeded to Brussels with Pointer replacing the stage manager for the occasion.\n\nIn addition to his acclaimed abilities as the director of such Workshop productions as \"The Entertainer\", \"Misalliance\", \"The Glass Menagerie\", and \"The Caretaker\", Irving proved his skills as a financial manager over many years, shrewdly learning \"by necessity,\" according to San Francisco writer Mark Harris, \"a hundred-and-one uses for the pennies of a dollar.\" In the world of theatrical idealism, chary vigilance is absolutely necessary, as the economics of the performing arts in our time require deficit funding to a greater degree every year. Irving always had to struggle to keep the Workshop solvent. In doing so, he protected the company's artistic independence. He was thus extremely cautious in the late 1950s when the Ford Foundation offered its hand.\n\nSome scholars note that Irving's life offers a study in artistic morality although the \"message\" of any particular ethical exchange (Workshop v. State Department, Workshop v. Ford, v. Lincoln Center, v. ACT?) may remain unclear. A secular Jew, Irving was honored with the Methodist-oriented Danforth Fellowship early in his professorial career for interests and achievements in \"religion and higher education\". \n\nIn 1957, Irving began interacting with the Ford Foundation. At that time, the Foundation's Humanities and Arts Program offered grants-in-aid to \"creative and performing artists\", et al and the Workshop stood to benefit. Over time Irving developed a relationship with the Foundation as a consultant who advised fledgling theaters on survival and growth throughout the nation. Of particular note is his travel to Mississippi in the early '60s to work as an advisor to the Free Southern Theater, a racially integrated troupe presenting \"Waiting for Godot\" amid a \"beligerant, racist\" atmosphere. Irving's relationship with the Ford Foundation offered important lessons in the ethics and effects of philanthropic intervention in non-profit enterprises within a free market system.\n\nThe Workshop and its directors rose in national prominence for thirteen years until, in 1965, Irving and Blau were appointed to the artistic leadership at the Repertory Company in the Vivian Beaumont Theater of Lincoln Center. Several key actors were invited to accompany them to New York to form the nucleus of a repertory troupe. The direction of the Actor's Workshop was assumed by Kenneth Kitch and John Hancock, who managed to keep the company going, despite dwindling audiences, through the summer of 1966 when the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce rejected an appeal for aid from the company. The Chamber instead offered a financial incentive to William Ball's American Conservatory Theater to become the city's resident company.\n\nIrving and Blau were back in their home city. After a rocky reception to their initial efforts, particularly to Blau's production of \"Danton's Death,\" Blau resigned, but Irving was retained by the Lincoln Center board. He steadily built the repertory company for the next seven years, concentrating mainly on his responsibilities and leadership as producer after personally directing some of the strongest early productions, including the powerful 1966 \"Caucasian Chalk Circle.\"\n\nWhile nurturing the acting and directing corps, he embraced at times certain \"star\" productions of quality, such as Mike Nichols' celebrated revival of Lillian Hellman's \"The Little Foxes\" and Gordon Davidson's staging of \"In the Matter of J. Robert Oppenheimer\". Irving understood that in New York no cultural institution may function well in isolation, so he reached out even to commercial productions of poetic and idealistic themes, e.g., Brian Friel's \"Lovers\". He ended his regime at Lincoln Center in 1972 with Ellis Rabb's widely celebrated direction of Maxim Gorky's \"Enemies\" with a cast that included several actors who had come with Irving years earlier from San Francisco.\n\nIrving concluded a little over three decades in live theater when he left Lincoln Center.His was a remarkable career by any standard, not overlooking, as his widow Priscilla Pointer notes, his unflagging care and attention to raising their family of three children. He and his family moved to Southern California where Ms. Pointer, long a major actress with the Actor's Workshop and Lincoln Center, found opportunity to flourish in film roles, and where their daughter Amy Irving, who began her acting career at age nine on the Workshop stage, would carry on the family name.Irving produced television revivals of classic films, including \"Dark Victory\" and directed \"Loose Change\" and the celebrated series,\" Rich Man, Poor Man\". As producer of the Lincoln Center original, he is credited for Masterpiece Theater's televised version of \"Enemies\".\n\nHe died of a heart attack in 1979 on a vacation trip to Reno, Nevada, aged 54.\n\nIn 1947, Irving married actress Priscilla Pointer, to whom he remained married until his death in 1979. The couple had two children, director David Irving and actress Amy Irving. Pointer remarried a year later in 1980 to Robert Symonds, who had been Irving's producing partner at Lincoln Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "47937705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47937705", "title": "Julie Rowe", "text": "Julie Rowe\n\nJulie Rowe is an American author, public speaker and member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). She had a near-death experience (NDE) in 2004 in which she claimed she visited the spirit world and was shown many things, including upcoming world calamities.\n\nRowe has written three books. Her current book, \"From Tragedy to Destiny\", was released in February 2016. Her writings and fireside messages have been interpreted as encouraging spiritual and emergency preparations, such as food storage, before signs of the end times, such as the \"blood moon\" from the September 2015 lunar eclipse. An LDS Church press release at that time stated that it encourages emergency preparations and self-reliance during disasters and hardships, but discourages \"extreme efforts\" and some recent \"writings and speculations of individual Church members,\" which \"do not reflect Church doctrine.\"\n\nThe LDS Church Education System placed Rowe's book \"A Greater Tomorrow\" on a list of spurious materials to teachers of seminaries and to Institutes of Religion and stated, \"Although Sister Rowe is an active member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, her book is not endorsed by the church and should not be recommended to students or used as a resource in teaching them. The experiences she shares are her own personal experiences and do not necessarily reflect Church doctrine or they may distort Church doctrine.\" Some media outlets have interpreted this as a condemnation of Rowe's books by the LDS Church, as this was guidance that her books would not be used as a resource for teaching curriculum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58308095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58308095", "title": "Lady of the Hills", "text": "Lady of the Hills\n\nThe Lady of the Hills is a name given by the media to the body of an unknown female discovered in 2004 on the mountain Pen-y-ghent in Yorkshire, England. The woman was found to have originally come from somewhere in South-East Asia and despite an international police investigation, the identity of the woman, how she arrived at the location and the cause of her death remain a mystery.\n\nOn Monday 20 September 2004 at 11:30 am, a man walking in the vicinity of Pen-y-ghent alerted the police to the discovery of the body of a dead woman. The man had discovered the body in a well-trafficked location on the Pennine Way between Pen-y-ghent and Horton in Ribblesdale in a stream called Sell Gill Beck which flows into a cave called Sell Gill Hole. It was thought that the body had been in the stream for some time and that the woman could have died up to three weeks prior to the discovery. The cause of death was not initially apparent and no signs of violence were reported.\n\nThe woman was thought to be of South-East Asian origin, had dark, shoulder-length hair and was about 1.5 metres tall (4ft 11ins). She was believed to be aged between 25 and 35. The woman had healthy teeth which had a noticeable gap at the front. She was found wearing green jeans, a green and white striped T-shirt and was wearing a wedding ring. The ring was found to be 22 carat and to have been made in Bangkok, Thailand. The woman had pierced ears but no earrings were found. No shoes, warm outer clothing, personal bags of other effects were found at the scene of the discovery. The woman weighed but appeared to have gained weight in the years prior to her death and wore a size 12 dress. \n\nImmediately after the discovery, North Yorkshire Police commenced an extensive investigation. Police questioned walkers using the Pennine Way, conducted house-to-house enquires in the locality and issued letters to local holiday accommodations that appealed for witnesses in multiple languages. Police investigated every sighting in the Yorkshire Dales of women matching the description of the unidentified body dating back to 1 August 2004. \n\nA postmortem was undertaken which suggested the woman died between 31 August and 13 September but it did not provide enough information to enable investigators to establish the cause of death. The postmortem indicated that the woman had probably been pregnant at some point during her life.\n\nDetective Chief Inspector Pete Martin who was working on the investigation stated that the death was unexplained rather than suspicious. A search of missing persons databases did not produce any matches.\n\nA number of countries were identified as the potential origin of the woman. These countries included: Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam. Analysis of the body indicated that the woman had been in the UK for at least two years prior to her death and that she had probably lived in Cumbria, Lancashire, or the west Yorkshire Dales.\n\nIn December 2004 the Police produced an e-fit photograph of the woman which was issued to the embassies of a number of Asian countries. At this time time it was believed that the woman could have originated from the Philippines, China or Korea. No meaningful response was received from this appeal.\n\nIn February 2005 an appeal was made on the BBC programme Crimewatch.\n\nIn May 2007 the inquest heard that the investigation found no evidence of trauma, assault or drowning and it recorded an open verdict.\n\nIn 2011 the police announced that they were reopening the investigation of eight unsolved deaths. The 'Lady of the Hills' was one of these cases along with the Sutton Bank Body.\n\nIn 2018 an appeal was made by the North Yorkshire Police. The appeal was made on Facebook in the Filipino, Thai, and English languages so that the messages could be shared internationally.\n\n"}
{"id": "16656106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16656106", "title": "Lee Powell (actor)", "text": "Lee Powell (actor)\n\nLee Powell (born Lee Berrian Powell; May 15, 1908 Long Beach, California – July 30, 1944 Tinian) was a film actor known for leading or other major roles in several serials and b-westerns. He was the first actor to portray The Lone Ranger on Film. During World War II he enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps and participated in combat on several Pacific Islands, on one of which he died.\n\nPowell attended the University of Montana with dramatics, football, and track as his main interests. After various stock work he tried his luck in Hollywood.\n\nMaking his first appearance uncredited in \"Under Two Flags\" (1936), Powell gained fame for playing the suspect who turned out to be \"The Lone Ranger\" and one of \"The Fighting Devil Dogs\" in 1938 serials. He was the first actor to portray the Lone Ranger on film. In addition to making films for Republic Pictures, Powell also appeared in Universal Pictures \"Flash Gordon Conquers the Universe\" serial, made one Western for the soon-to-be-defunct Grand National Pictures and made the six Western programmer films of the \"Frontier Marshals\" series, in which each of the three leads (the others being Bill \"Cowboy Rambler\" Boyd and Art Davis) played a lawman bearing his own name, for Producers Releasing Corporation. Between films Powell also appeared in Barnett Brothers circus being billed as \"The Lone Ranger\" until litigation had him change his billing. Powell met and married Norma Rogers, a circus bareback rider and the daughter of the circus owner.\n\nPowell enlisted in the United States Marine Corps on 17 August 1942, serving in the 2nd Pioneer Battalion, 18th Marine Regiment of the 2nd Marine Division. Achieving the rank of Sergeant, Powell actively fought in the Battle of Tarawa and Battle of Saipan. \n\nAlthough he was widely reported to have been killed in action, one source claims he died of poisoning on Tinian, while celebrating the combat victory at that site, as the result of drinking an alcohol concoction that also temporarily blinded another Marine. Another source, Fred Goerner, a CBS correspondent, while conducting research for his later best seller \"The Search for Amelia Earhart,\" (1966) had a discussion with a former Marine who participated in the Battles of Saipan and Tinian. (June/July 1944) That Marine told Goerner that Lee Powell died after drinking poisoned sake.\n\nInitially buried on Tinian, Powell's remains were transferred to the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific in Honolulu.\n\n"}
{"id": "527725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=527725", "title": "Lithopedion", "text": "Lithopedion\n\nA lithopedion – also spelled lithopaedion or lithopædion – ( = stone; = small child, infant), or stone baby, is a rare phenomenon which occurs most commonly when a fetus dies during an abdominal pregnancy, is too large to be reabsorbed by the body, and calcifies on the outside as part of a foreign body reaction, shielding the mother's body from the dead tissue of the fetus and preventing infection.\n\nLithopedia may occur from 14 weeks gestation to full term. It is not unusual for a stone baby to remain undiagnosed for decades and to be found well after natural menopause; diagnosis often happens when the patient is examined for other conditions that require being subjected to a X-ray study. A review of 128 cases by T.S.P. Tien found that the mean age of women with lithopedia was fifty-five years at the time of diagnosis, with the oldest being one-hundred years old. The lithopedia was carried for an average of twenty-two years, and in several cases, the women became pregnant a second time and gave birth to children without incident. Nine of the reviewed cases had carried lithopedia for over fifty years before diagnosis.\n\nAccording to one report there are only 300 known cases of lithopedia in the world, recorded in over 400 years of medical literature. While the chance of abdominal pregnancy is one in 11,000 pregnancies, only between 1.5 and 1.8% of these abdominal pregnancies may develop into lithopedia. \n\nThe earliest known lithopedion was found in an archaeological excavation at Bering Sinkhole, on the Edwards Plateau in Kerr County, Texas, and dated to 1100 BC. Another early example was found in a Gallo-Roman archaeological site in Costebelle, southern France, dating to the 4th century.\n\nThe condition was first described in a treatise by the Spanish Muslim physician Abū al-Qāsim (Abulcasis) in the 10th century. By the mid-18th century, a number of cases had been documented in humans, sheep and hares in France and Germany. In a speech before the French Académie Royale des Sciences in 1748, surgeon Sauveur François Morand used lithopedia both as evidence of the common nature of fetal development in viviparous and oviparous animals, and as an argument in favor of cesarean section.\n\nIn 1880, German physician Friedrich Küchenmeister reviewed 47 cases of lithopedia from the medical literature and distinguished three subgroups: \"Lithokelyphos\" (\"Stone Sheath\"), where calcification occurs on the placental membrane and not the fetus; \"Lithotecnon\" (\"Stone Child\") or \"true\" lithopedion, where the fetus itself is calcified after entering the abdominal cavity, following the rupture of the placental and ovarian membranes; and \"Lithokelyphopedion\" (\"Stone Sheath [and] Child\"), where both fetus and sac are calcified. Lithopedia can originate both as tubal and ovarian pregnancies, although tubal pregnancy cases are more common.\n\n"}
{"id": "32214958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32214958", "title": "Lucio Magri", "text": "Lucio Magri\n\nLucio Magri (19 August 1932 – 28 November 2011) was an Italian journalist and politician.\n\nMagri was born in Ferrara in Emilia-Romagna, one of the most left-wing regions of Italy, but grew up in the strongly Catholic Bergamo, Lombardy. His first involvement in politics was as a member of the Christian Democrats, taking up positions firmly on the left wing of the party. However in 1958 he was one of a number of Catholic intellectuals who joined the Communist Party. In 1969, he was one of the founders of the far-left newspaper \"il manifesto\", co-editing it with Rossana Rossanda. The newspaper's work was controversial with the Communist Party's leadership, and by the end of the year Magri had been expelled from the Party.\n\nHe was co-founder (in 1974) and secretary of the Proletarian Unity Party for Communism (or PdUP), which later merged with the Italian Communist Party in 1984. When the latter renounced communism to become the Democratic Party of the Left in 1991, Magri adhered to the Communist Refoundation Party, founding an internal movement whose structure recalled that of PdUP.\n\nIn 1995 his movement split, to form the Movement of Unitarian Communists, established to support a centrist cabinet led by Lamberto Dini. When the Movement entered the newly formed Democratic Party of the Left, Magri abandoned it, devoting himself only to \"il manifesto\".\n\nIn 2009 he published an essay on the history of the Italian Communist Party, entitled \"Il sarto di Ulm. Una possibile storia del PCI\" (The Tailor of Ulm. A possible history of the P.C.I.). In 2011, Verso Books published 'The Tailor of Ulm: Communism in the Twentieth Century'. Reviewing the book in Review 31, John Green praised it as 'an invaluable platform for understanding the apparent impasse of the present global and systemic crisis'.\n\nIn his later years, Magri suffered from depression, exacerbated by the death of his wife Mara in 2008. He chose to take up assisted suicide, passing away in Zurich, Switzerland. He was survived by a daughter, Jessica, and a granddaughter, Emma.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1283269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1283269", "title": "Mary Reeser", "text": "Mary Reeser\n\nMary Hardy Reeser (1884 – July 2, 1951) of St. Petersburg, Florida was a suspected victim of spontaneous human combustion.\n\nOn July 2, 1951, at about 8 a.m., Reeser's landlady, Pansy Carpenter, arrived at Reeser's door with a telegram. Trying the door, she found the metal doorknob to be uncomfortably warm to the touch and called the police.\n\nReeser's remains, which were largely ashes, were found among the remains of a chair in which she had been sitting. Only part of her left foot (which was wearing a slipper) and her backbone remained, along with her skull. Plastic household objects at a distance from the seat of the fire were softened and had lost their shapes.\n\nReeser's skull had survived and was found among the ashes, but shrunken (sometimes with the added descriptive flourish of 'to the size of a teacup'). The extent of this shrinkage was enough to be remarked on by official investigators and was not an illusion caused by the removal of all facial features (ears, nose, lips, etc.). The shrinking of the skull is not a regular feature of alleged cases of SHC, although the 'shrunken skull' claim has become a regular feature of anecdotal accounts of other SHC cases and numerous apocryphal stories. However, this is not the only case in which the remains featured a shrunken skull.\n\nOn July 7, 1951, St. Petersburg police chief J.R. Reichert sent a box of evidence from the scene to FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover. He included glass fragments found in the ashes, six \"small objects thought to be teeth,\" a section of the carpet, and the surviving shoe.\n\nEven though the body was almost totally cremated, requiring very high temperatures, the room in which it occurred showed little evidence of the fire.\n\nReichert included a note saying: \"We request any information or theories that could explain how a human body could be so destroyed and the fire confined to such a small area and so little damage done to the structure of the building and the furniture in the room not even scorched or damaged by smoke.\"\n\nThe FBI eventually declared that Reeser had been incinerated by the wick effect. As she was a known user of sleeping pills, they hypothesized that she had fallen unconscious while smoking and set fire to her nightclothes. \"Once the body starts to burn,\" the FBI wrote in its report, \"there is enough fat and other inflammable substances to permit varying amounts of destruction to take place. Sometimes this destruction by burning will proceed to a degree which results in almost complete combustion of the body.\"\n\nAt the request of the Chief of Police, St. Petersburg, Florida, the scene was also investigated by physical anthropologist Wilton M Krogman. Professor Krogman, of the University of Pennsylvania's School of Medicine, had spent some time in the 1930s experimenting and examining the remains of such incidents, in order to aid in the detection of crimes.\n\nKrogman was frequently consulted by the FBI for this reason but after examining the scene and reading the FBI's report, he strongly disputed the FBI's conclusions concerning Reeser. However, the full circumstances of the death—and Krogman's objections to the FBI's version of events—would not become known publicly for a decade.\n\nIn a 1961 article for \"The General Magazine and History Chronicle of the University of Pennsylvania\", Krogman wrote extensively about the Reeser case. His remarks included:\n\nI find it hard to believe that a human body, once ignited, will literally consume itself -- burn itself out, as does a candle wick, guttering in the last residual pool of melted wax [...] Just what did happen on the night of July 1, 1951, in St. Petersburg, Florida? We may never know, though this case still haunts me.\n\nWith regard to Reeser's shrunken skull, Krogman wrote:\n\n[...]The head is not left complete in ordinary burning cases. Certainly it does not shrivel or symmetrically reduce to a smaller size. In presence of heat sufficient to destroy soft tissues, the skull would literally explode in many pieces. I have never known any exception to this rule.\n\nKrogman concluded:\n\nI cannot conceive of such complete cremation without more burning of the apartment itself. In fact the apartment and everything in it should have been consumed. [...] I regard it as the most amazing thing I have ever seen. As I review it, the short hairs on my neck bristle with vague fear. Were I living in the Middle Ages, I'd mutter something about black magic.\n\nLater, having put this statement on the record, Krogman moved away from this position. He instead put forward the theory that Reeser had been murdered at another location. Her murderer had access to crematorium-type equipment and had incinerated her body. The hypothetical murderer had then transported the results of the partial cremation back to the apartment and used portable heat-generating equipment to add the finishing touches, such as the heat-buckled plastic objects and the warm doorknob.\n\nMary Reeser was born in Columbia, Pennsylvania and married Dr. Richard Reeser (b 1874/5). Their only surviving child, also Dr. Richard Reeser, was born in Pennsylvania in 1910 or 1911. She was buried in the Chestnut Hill Cemetery outside Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania.\n"}
{"id": "14777105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14777105", "title": "Michael Frost (minister)", "text": "Michael Frost (minister)\n\nMichael Frost (born 1961) is an Australian missiologist and one of the leading voices in the missional church movement. Frost is the founding Director of the Tinsley Institute, a mission study centre located at Morling College in Sydney, Australia. He is also a senior lecturer with the Melbourne University of Divinity.\n\nFrost is the author or editor of a number of theological books, the most recent of which are \"The Shaping of Things to Come\" (2003), \"Exiles\" (2006), \"The Road to Missional\" (2011) and \"Surprise the World\" (2016). These books explore a missional framework for the church in a post-Christendom era. Frost's work has been translated into German, Korean and Spanish. Frost has spoken at conferences in the United States, the United Kingdom and across Europe, and as far afield as Nairobi, Rio de Janeiro and Moscow.\n\nIn 1999, Frost and Alan Hirsch founded the Forge Mission Training Network, an action-reflection based program for training missional leaders. He remains an international director of that movement which is now based in the United States. In 2002, he founded the missional Christian community, smallboatbigsea, based in Manly in Sydney's north. He has been the weekly religion columnist for The Manly Daily from 2002 to 2014, and helped establish Action Against Poverty, a localised micro-financing agency, linking the cities of Manly and Manado, an impoverished Indonesian community. He was also instrumental in launching Street Pastors Manly, a street chaplaincy program for entertainment precincts, founded in the United Kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54593386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54593386", "title": "Obligatory synergies", "text": "Obligatory synergies\n\nIn medicine, obligatory synergies occur when spasticity appears, such as following a stroke. It manifests in abnormal and stereotypical patterns across multiple joints called obligatory synergies. They are described as either a flexion synergy or an extension synergy and affect both the upper and lower extremity (see below). When these patterns occur in a patient, he or she is unable to move a limb segment in isolation of the pattern. This interferes with normal activities of daily living. Some aspects of the obligatory synergy patterns however, can be cleverly used to increase function relative to the movement available to the individual. Careful thought should, therefore, be considered in deciding which muscle groups to stretch at specific times during recovery. Obligatory synergy patterns are observed when a patient tries to make a minimal voluntary movement, or as a result of stimulated reflexes.\n\nThe flexion synergy for the upper extremity includes scapular retraction and elevation, shoulder abduction and external rotation, elbow flexion, forearm supination, and wrist and finger flexion.\n\nThe extension synergy for the upper extremity includes scapular protraction, shoulder adduction and internal rotation, elbow extension, forearm pronation, and wrist and finger flexion.\n\nThe flexion synergy for the lower extremity includes hip flexion, abduction and external rotation, knee flexion, ankle dorsiflexion and inversion and toe dorsiflexion.\n\nThe extension synergy for the lower extremity includes hip extension, adduction and internal rotation, knee extension, ankle plantar flexion and inversion, and toe plantar flexion.\n\nNote that some muscles are not usually involved in these synergy patterns and include the lattisimus dorsi, teres major, serratus anterior, finger extensors, and ankle evertors.\n"}
{"id": "31775043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31775043", "title": "Prometheus (2012 film)", "text": "Prometheus (2012 film)\n\nPrometheus ( ) is a 2012 science fiction film directed by Ridley Scott, written by Jon Spaihts and Damon Lindelof and starring Noomi Rapace, Michael Fassbender, Guy Pearce, Idris Elba, Logan Marshall-Green, and Charlize Theron. It is set in the late 21st century and centers on the crew of the spaceship \"Prometheus\" as it follows a star map discovered among the artifacts of several ancient Earth cultures. Seeking the origins of humanity, the crew arrives on a distant world and discovers a threat that could cause the extinction of the human species.\n\nDevelopment of the film began in the early 2000s as a fifth installment in the \"Alien\" franchise. Scott and director James Cameron developed ideas for a film that would serve as a prequel to Scott's 1979 science-fiction horror film \"Alien\". In 2002, the development of \"Alien vs. Predator\" took precedence, and the project remained dormant until 2009 when Scott again showed interest. Spaihts wrote a script for a prequel to the events of the \"Alien\" films, but Scott opted for a different direction to avoid repeating cues from those films. In late 2010, Lindelof joined the project to rewrite Spaihts's script, and he and Scott developed a story that precedes the story of \"Alien\" but is not directly connected to that franchise. According to Scott, although the film shares \"strands of \"Alien\"s DNA, so to speak\", and takes place in the same universe, \"Prometheus\" explores its own mythology and ideas.\n\n\"Prometheus\" entered production in April 2010, with extensive design phases during which the technology and creatures that the film required were developed. Principal photography began in March 2011, with an estimated $120–130 million budget. The project was shot using 3D cameras throughout, almost entirely on practical sets, and on location in England, Iceland, Spain, and Scotland. It was promoted with a marketing campaign that included viral activities on the web. Three videos featuring the film's leading actors in character, which expanded on elements of the fictional universe, were released and met with a generally positive reception and awards.\n\n\"Prometheus\" was released on June 1, 2012, in the United Kingdom and on June 8, 2012, in North America. The film received praise for the aesthetic design and the acting, especially Fassbender's performance as the android David, while plot elements that remained unresolved or predictable were the main source of criticism. The film grossed over $403 million worldwide. A sequel, \"\", was released in May 2017.\n\nAs a spacecraft departs a planet, a humanoid alien drinks an iridescent liquid, causing its body to dissolve. As its remains cascade into a waterfall, the alien's DNA falls apart and recombines.\n\nIn 2089, archaeologists Elizabeth Shaw and Charlie Holloway discover a star map in Scotland that matches others from several unconnected ancient cultures. They interpret this as an invitation from humanity's forerunners, the \"Engineers.\" Peter Weyland, the elderly CEO of Weyland Corporation, funds an expedition, aboard the scientific vessel \"Prometheus,\" to follow the map to the distant moon LV-223. The ship's crew travels in stasis while the android David monitors their voyage. Arriving in December 2093, mission-director Meredith Vickers informs them of their mission to find the Engineers and not to make contact without her permission.\n\nThe \"Prometheus\" lands on the barren, mountainous surface near a large, artificial structure, which a team explores. Inside, they find stone cylinders, a monolithic statue of a humanoid head, and the decapitated corpse of a large alien, thought to be an Engineer; Shaw recovers its head. The crew finds other bodies, leading them to surmise the species is extinct. Crew members Millburn and Fifield grow uncomfortable with the discoveries and attempt to return to \"Prometheus\", but become stranded in the structure when they get lost. The expedition is cut short when a storm forces the crew to return to the ship. David secretly takes a cylinder from the structure, while the remaining cylinders begin leaking a dark liquid. In the ship's lab, the Engineer's DNA is found to match that of humans. David investigates the cylinder and the liquid inside. He intentionally taints a drink with the liquid and gives it to the unsuspecting Holloway, who had stated he would do anything for answers. Shortly after, Shaw and Holloway have sex.\n\nInside the structure, a snake-like creature kills Millburn and sprays a corrosive fluid that melts Fifield's helmet. Fifield falls face-first into a puddle of dark liquid. When the crew returns, they find Millburn's corpse. David separately discovers a control room containing a surviving Engineer in stasis, and a large 3D holographic star map highlighting Earth. Meanwhile, Holloway sickens rapidly. He is rushed back to \"Prometheus\", but Vickers refuses to let him aboard, and at his urging, burns him to death with a flamethrower. Later, a medical scan reveals that Shaw, despite being sterile, is pregnant. Fearing the worst, she uses an automated surgery table to extract a squid-like creature from her abdomen. Shaw then discovers that Weyland has been in stasis aboard \"Prometheus.\" He explains that he wants to ask the Engineers how to prevent his death from old age. As Weyland prepares to leave for the structure, Vickers addresses him as \"Father\".\n\nA monstrous, mutated Fifield returns to the \"Prometheus\" and kills several crew members before he is killed. The \"Prometheus\" captain, Janek, speculates that the structure was an Engineer military base that lost control of a virulent biological weapon, the dark liquid. He also determines that the structure houses a spacecraft. Weyland and a team return to the structure, accompanied by Shaw. David wakes the Engineer from stasis and speaks to him in an attempt to explain what Weyland wants. The Engineer responds by decapitating David and killing Weyland and his team, before reactivating the spacecraft. Shaw flees and warns Janek that the Engineer is planning to release the liquid on Earth, convincing him to stop the spacecraft. Janek and the remaining crew sacrifice themselves by ramming the \"Prometheus\" into the alien craft, ejecting the lifeboat in the process, while Vickers flees in an escape pod. The Engineer's disabled spacecraft crashes onto the ground, killing Vickers. Shaw goes to the lifeboat and finds her alien offspring is alive and has grown to gigantic size. David's still-active head warns Shaw that the Engineer is pursuing her. The Engineer forces open the lifeboat's airlock and attacks Shaw, who releases her alien offspring onto the Engineer; it thrusts an ovipositor down the Engineer's throat, subduing him. Shaw recovers David's remains, and with his help, launches another Engineer spacecraft. She intends to reach the Engineers' homeworld in an attempt to understand why they wanted to destroy humanity.\n\nIn the lifeboat, an alien creature bursts out of the Engineer's chest.\n\n\n\n\nOther cast members include Kate Dickie as the ship's medic, Ford; Emun Elliott and Benedict Wong as, respectively, ship pilots Chance and Ravel; and Patrick Wilson as Shaw's father. Ian Whyte and Daniel James portray Engineers.\n\nThe central theme in \"Prometheus\" concerns the eponymous Titan of Greek mythology who defies the gods and gifts humanity with fire, for which he is subjected to eternal punishment. The gods want to limit their creations in case they attempt to usurp the gods. The film deals with humanity's relationship with the gods—their creators—and the consequence of defying them. A human expedition intends to find God and receive knowledge about belief, immortality and death. They find superior beings who appear god-like in comparison to humanity, and the \"Prometheus\" crew suffer consequences for their pursuit. Shaw is directly responsible for the events of the plot because she wants her religious beliefs affirmed, and believes she is entitled to answers from God; her questions remain unanswered and she is punished for her hubris. The film offers similar resolution, providing items of information but leaving the connections and conclusions to the audience, potentially leaving the question unanswered. Further religious allusions are implied by the Engineers' decision to punish humanity with destruction 2,000 years before the events of the film. Scott suggested that an Engineer was sent to Earth to stop humanity's increasing aggression, but was crucified, implying it was Jesus Christ. However, Scott felt that an explicit connection in the film would be \"a little too on the nose.\"\n\nArtificial intelligence, a unifying theme throughout Scott's career as a director, is particularly evident in \"Prometheus\", primarily through the android David. David is like humans but does not want to be like them, eschewing a common theme in \"robotic storytelling\" such as \"Blade Runner\". David is created in the image of humanity, and while the human crew of the \"Prometheus\" ship searches for their creators expecting answers, David exists among his human creators yet is underwhelmed; he questions his creators about why they are seeking their own. Lindelof described the ship as a prison for David. At the conclusion of the film, David's creator (Weyland) is dead and his fundamental programming will end without someone to serve. Lindelof explained that David's programming becomes unclear and that he could be programmed by Shaw or his own sense of curiosity. Following Weyland's death, David is left with Shaw, and is sincere and interested in following her, partly out of survival and partly out of curiosity.\n\nAnother theme is creation and the question of \"Who Am I? Who Made Me? Why Hast Thou Forsaken Me?\" Development of the in-universe mythology explored the Judeo-Christian creation of man, but Scott was interested in Greco-Roman and Aztec creation myths about gods who create man in their own image by sacrificing a piece of themselves. This creation is shown in the film's opening in which an Engineer sacrifices itself after consuming the dark liquid, acting as a \"gardener in space\" to bring life to a world. One of their expeditions creates humanity, who create artificial life (David) in their own image. David then introduces the dark liquid to Holloway who impregnates a sterile Shaw, and the resulting child impregnates an Engineer, creating the child of all three generations. Scott likened the Engineers to the dark angels of John Milton's \"Paradise Lost\", and said that humanity was their offspring and not God's.\n\nShaw is the only religious believer in the crew and openly displays her religious belief with a necklace of a Christian cross. Lindelof said that with her scientific knowledge, her beliefs felt outdated in 2093. Shaw is excited when she learns that she was created by the Engineers and not a supernatural deity, but rather than cause her to lose her faith, it reinforces it. Lindelof said that asking questions and searching for meaning is the point of being alive, and so the audience is left to question whether Shaw was protected by God because of her faith. Scott wanted the film to end with Shaw's declaration that she is still searching for definitive answers. In addition to the religious themes, Lindelof said that \"Prometheus\" is pro-science and explores whether scientific knowledge and faith in God can co-exist.\n\nBeside drawing several influences from \"Paradise Lost\", \"The Atlantic\"s Govindini Murty noted further influences, and wrote that \"[t]he striking images Ridley Scott devises for \"Prometheus\" reference everything from Stanley Kubrick's \"\" to Leonardo da Vinci's \"Vitruvian Man\" and Mario Bava's \"Planet of the Vampires\". Scott also expands on the original \"Alien\" universe by creating a distinctly English mythology informed by Milton's \"Paradise Lost\" and the symbolic drawings of William Blake.\"\n\nDevelopment on a fifth film in the \"Alien\" franchise was in progress by 2002. Scott considered returning to the series he created with his 1979 science fiction horror film \"Alien\", to pursue a sequel that would explore the engineered origins of the series's Alien creatures, and the \"space jockey\"—the extraterrestrial being, who briefly appears in \"Alien\", as the deceased pilot of a derelict spaceship. \"Alien\" star Sigourney Weaver also expressed interest in returning to the series. \"Aliens\" director James Cameron discussed the potential for a sequel with Scott, and began working with another writer on a story for the film. It was then that 20th Century Fox approached Cameron with a script for a crossover film that would pit the series's monsters against the title characters of the \"Predator\" films; this project became the 2004 science fiction film \"Alien vs. Predator\". After Fox confirmed that it would pursue the crossover, Cameron stopped working on his own project, believing the crossover would \"kill the validity of the franchise.\" In 2006, Cameron confirmed that he would not return to the \"Alien\" sequel project, believing that the series was Fox's asset, and he was unwilling to deal with the studio's attempts to influence the potential sequel.\n\nIn May 2009, Fox said that the project was a \"reboot\" of the \"Alien\" franchise, and soon afterwards was reported as an untitled prequel to \"Alien\". Development stopped in June 2009 when Fox clashed with Scott over his selection of former television advertisement director Carl Erik Rinsch as director. Fox was only interested in pursuing the project if Scott directed. By July 2009, Scott was contracted to direct the film, and screenwriter Jon Spaihts was hired to write the script based on his pitched idea for a direct \"Alien\" prequel. With the director and writer in place, and pleased with Spaihts's pitch, Fox scheduled a release date for December 2011, but this was eventually canceled. In June 2010, Scott announced that the script was complete and that pre-production would begin, and a filming date was set for January 2011. Fox eventually pushed to develop the project into an original work, and by July 2010, Lindelof had been hired to redevelop Spaihts's screenplay. In October 2010, Lindelof submitted his rewritten screenplay to Fox. Scott had initially requested a $250 million budget and an adult oriented project, but Fox was reluctant to invest this amount of money, and wanted to ensure the film would receive a lower age-rating to broaden the potential audience.\n\nIn December 2010, it was reported that the film would be called \"Paradise\", named after John Milton's poem \"Paradise Lost\", but Scott considered that this would convey too much information about the film. Fox CEO Thomas Rothman suggested \"Prometheus\", which was confirmed as the title in January 2011. A release date was scheduled for , but weeks later the release was postponed until . With the name confirmed, the production team began to publicly distance the film from its \"Alien\" origins, and were deliberately vague about the connection between the films, believing it would build audience anticipation for \"Prometheus\". Scott stated that \"while \"Alien\" was indeed the jumping-off point for this project, out of the creative process evolved a new, grand mythology and universe in which this original story takes place. The keen fan will recognize strands of \"Alien\"s DNA, so to speak, but the ideas tackled in this film are unique, large and provocative.\" In June 2011, Scott and Lindelof confirmed that \"Prometheus\" takes place in the same universe as the events of the \"Alien\" series. In July 2011, Scott stated that \"by the end of the third act you start to realize there's a DNA of the very first \"Alien\", but none of the subsequent [films].\"\n\nSpaihts met Scott in late 2009 and they discussed Scott's desire to pursue an \"Alien\" prequel. Spaihts offered his concept, including a \"bridge\" that would connect the story of the film's human characters to the \"Alien\" saga. Spaihts was quickly hired, which he credited to the reception of his \"bridge\" idea. Spaihts claimed he created the concept spontaneously, without preconception. Spaihts wrote a 20-page \"extremely detailed outline\"; within three and a half weeks he had completed his first draft, and he submitted it to the producers on Christmas Day, 2009. Within 12 hours, Scott returned the script with notes for changes, and Spaihts spent the Christmas holiday redrafting.\n\nSpaihts was tasked with exploring unresolved mysteries from \"Alien\", such as the Space Jockey. He considered the mysteries of \"Alien\" to be alien in nature, and said, \"all the mysteries have alien players: the exoskeleton nightmare and ... the elephantine titan that was called the 'space jockey' ... How do you make anyone care about events between creatures like this?\" His solution was to link the alien mysteries to the past and future of humanity. He said: \"If that story is somehow ours and deeply enmeshed with the human story, that story changes meaning within our life, things of such significance that we think of our own lives differently.\" Spaihts found translating Scott's stylistic visual concepts to text difficult, and he periodically constrained some of Scott's ideas. He reminded Scott that in the scene they were discussing, the characters were subject to gravity and so could not simply float. By April 2010, the script was on the fourth draft. Scott said about the script, \"we are talking about gods and engineers. Engineers of space. And were the aliens designed as a form of biological warfare? Or biology that would go in and clean up a planet?\" In June 2010, Scott announced that the script was complete and ready for filming.\n\nHowever, Scott instead contacted Lindelof and asked him to review Spaihts's script. Within the hour, a messenger delivered the script to Lindelof and informed him that he would wait outside to return it as soon as Lindelof had finished reading it. Lindelof was unaware of what Scott and the producers liked about the existing script, and informed them that he found the general concept appealing, but that the story relied too heavily on elements of the \"Alien\" films, such as the \"Alien\" creatures' life-cycle. As a direct prequel to \"Alien\", the story was shaped to lead into that film's story, and to recreate the familiar cues of that series, and Scott wanted to avoid repeating his previous accomplishments. Lindelof said, \"If the ending to [\"Prometheus\"] is just going to be the room that John Hurt walks into that's full of [alien] eggs [in \"Alien\"], there's nothing interesting in that, because we know where it's going to end. Good stories, you don't know where they're going to end.\" \"A true prequel should essentially precede the events of the original film, but be about something entirely different, feature different characters, have an entirely different theme, although it takes place in that same world.\"\nLindelof said that the other parts of the script were strong enough to survive without the \"Alien\" hallmarks, such as the \"Alien\" creature, which he believed had been diluted by the exposure it had received. He said, \"[The producers] were just looking for someone to say to them, Hey, we don't need the \"Alien\" stuff in here. It shouldn't be about that. It can be a part of this movie, but it shouldn't be what it's about.\" Lindelof said that the film could instead run parallel to the \"Alien\" series and that a sequel would be \"Prometheus 2\" and not \"Alien\", and submitted an idea for how such a sequel could work. Lindelof met with the producers the following morning, and was hired shortly afterward in late 2010. Under Lindelof, the script diverged from Spaihts's \"Alien\" prequel into an original creation. Scott and Lindelof worked together five days a week between July and August 2010 to construct the vision Scott wanted to convey and decide what script changes were needed, including scaling back the \"Alien\" symbolism and tropes. In August and September 2010, Lindelof spent almost five weeks writing his first draft, which he submitted in mid-September 2010. Inspired by \"Blade Runner\" and Spaihts's script, Lindelof thought that it would be possible to combine an \"Alien\" story of action and horror with \"the \"Blade Runner\" thematic,\" to ask bigger questions than he felt were normally posed in science fiction films. Lindelof said,\n\nScott's story concept was partially inspired by \"Chariots of the Gods?\", Erich von Däniken's work about the theory of ancient astronauts which hypothesizes that life on Earth was created by aliens. Scott said, \"NASA and the Vatican agree that [it is] almost mathematically impossible that we can be where we are today without there being a little help along the way ... That's what we're looking at [in the film], at some of Erich von Däniken's ideas of how did we humans come about.\" Spaihts originated the idea that David, the android, is like humans but does not want to be anything like them, eschewing a common theme in \"robotic storytelling\" such as \"Blade Runner\". He also developed the theme that while the human crew is searching for their creators, David is already among its creators. Scott liked these ideas and further explored them in Lindelof's rewrite. For Shaw, Lindelof felt it was important that she was distinct from \"Alien\"s Ripley, to avoid inevitable comparisons between the two characters. In Spaihts's draft, Shaw was directly responsible for the events of the plot because she wants to seek out potentially dangerous knowledge. As with David, Lindelof expanded this facet of the character during his rewrites. He spent approximately eight months developing the script, finishing in March 2011 as filming began.\n\nPre-production began in April 2010. A team developed graphic designs for the film. Scott convinced Fox to invest millions of dollars to hire scientists and conceptual artists to develop a vision of the late 21st century. The production of \"Prometheus\" was marked by a high degree of secrecy and story details were kept \"extremely under-wraps.\" Ridley Scott was determined to maintain the secrecy of the plot, and he required the cast to sign clauses to prevent them disclosing story details, and the cast were allowed to read the script only under supervision in Scott's production office. One exception was made when a courier flew the script to one actor outside the US, and then stood guard while the actor read it. Scott said, \"I was insistent that the script not leak onto the internet, where it gets dissected out of context, which spoils it for everyone.\"\n\nIn July 2011, Lindelof said that the film would rely upon practical effects, and would use CGI generally for on-set pre-visualization of external space visuals. Scott said that \"you can pretty much do anything you want\" with digital technology, and, \"Doug Trumbull once said to me 'If you can do it live, do it live.' That was 29 years ago. Even though we have remarkable digital capabilities I still say do it live. It's cheaper.\" Cinematographer Dariusz Wolski convinced Scott that it would be possible to film in 3D with the same ease and efficiency of 2D filming. 3D company 3ality Technica provided some of the rigs and equipment to facilitate 3D filming, and trained the film's crew in their proper operation. According to Scott, the decision to film in 3D added $10 million to the film's budget. Since 3D films need high lighting levels on set, the hallmark dark and shadowy atmosphere of the \"Alien\" films was added in post-production using color grading processes, and the 3D equipment was based on post-\"Avatar\" technology.\n\nPrincipal photography began on March 21, 2011, lasted 82 days, and had an estimated $120–130 million budget. Filming began at Shepperton Studios and Pinewood Studios in England. Scott used eight sound stages for filming, including the 007 Stage. Studio space was limited and the crew had to make five stages work for approximately 16 sets, and increased the size of the 007 stage by over 30%.\n\nExterior shots of the alien world were shot in Iceland, where filming occurred for two weeks. It commenced on July 11, 2011, at the base of Hekla, an active volcano in southern Iceland. Speaking about working at the volcano, Scott said, \"If one is afraid of nature in this profession then it would be best to find a different job\". Filming also took place at Dettifoss, one of the most powerful waterfalls in Europe. The Iceland shoot involved 160 Icelandic crew members and over 200 imported crew. Scott said that the filming in Iceland comprised approximately fifteen minutes of footage for the film, and that the area represented the beginning of time. Morocco had been chosen as a location for these scenes, but the 2010 Arab Spring protests forced the change of venue. Alternatives including the Mojave Desert had been considered, but Scott explained that Iceland was ultimately chosen because \"here it is so rough and 'Jurassic-like' and that proved decisive\".\n\nIn September 2011, filming moved to the Ciudad de la Luz audiovisual complex in Alicante, Spain. Shooting areas included the complex's large water tank, and a nearby beach. The complex was booked from August 22, 2011, through to December 10, 2011, and set construction occurred from August until late September. Approximately 250 people worked on the three-month-long Spain shoot, generating over €1 million in the local economy. Filming also took place in the Wadi Rum valley in Jordan.\n\nScott avoided using green screens unless necessary. Instead, he used various items so the actors would know where they should be looking in any particular scene on the practical sets where CGI elements would be inserted in post-production. Rapace said that green screens were used fewer than six times during filming. The production used five 3ality Technical Atom 3D rigs, four of which were configured with Red Epic 3D cameras set on camera dollies and tripods, which were continuously in use during filming. The fifth rig used an Epic camera as a steadicam, which was used only occasionally.\n\nScott used the 3D footage to increase the illusion of depth. Despite this being his first 3D film he found the process easy. He said, \"You can literally twiddle a knob and the depth will increase\", and, \"the trick is not to overdo it\". In December 2011, Rapace undertook additional dialogue recordings for the film. Additional pick-up scenes were filmed during January 2012, including a one-day shoot on the Isle of Skye, Scotland, and a new scene shot at a cave in the Scottish mountains. For dark scenes, the film was color graded to specifically compensate for the light loss of 3D glasses, to ensure the image was comparable to the 2D version.\n\nIn July 2011, Scott said that he was filming \"Prometheus\" with both adult-oriented R and more accessible PG-13 film ratings in mind, allowing the more adult content to be cut if necessary without harming the overall presentation. Scott said he had a responsibility to 20th Century Fox to be able to present a PG-13 cut of the film if the studio demanded, allowing it to be viewed by a wider potential audience. When asked about the rating, Scott said, \"the question is, do you go for the PG-13, or do you go for what it should be, which is R? Financially it makes quite a difference ... essentially it's kinda R ... it's not just about blood, it's about ideas that are very stressful.\" Scott also said that, regardless of rating, he would present the most aggressive cut of the film he could, while Rothman said that Scott would not be forced to compromise the film's quality to avoid an R-rating. On May 7, 2012, Fox confirmed that the film had received an R-rating and would be released without any cuts being made. According to Scott, the scene of Shaw surgically removing her alien offspring was the significant cause of the restrictive rating, and it was suggested that removing the scene entirely would be the only way to gain a lower one. A fight scene between Shaw and the Engineer was shortened because Scott decided that Shaw directly wounding the Engineer diminished his role. Scott concluded work on the film in March 2012.\n\nMarc Streitenfeld, who had worked with Scott on earlier projects, composed the musical score for \"Prometheus\". It took just over a week to record with a 90-piece orchestra at Abbey Road Studios in London, England. Streitenfeld began writing ideas for the score after reading the script before filming commenced. He used some unusual techniques to compose the score, and said, \"I actually wrote out the sheet music backwards so the orchestra played it backwards and then I digitally flipped it. So you're hearing the score as it's written, the same melody, but with a backwards sounding orchestra which gives it a kind of unusual, unsettling sound.\" The \"Prometheus (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack)\" album was released on iTunes on May 15, 2012, and on CD on June 4, 2012. It features 23 tracks by Streitenfeld and two supplemental tracks by Harry Gregson-Williams. Frédéric Chopins \"Raindrop prelude\" (1838) is also featured in the film.\n\nProduction designer Arthur Max led the film's design staff. His art team were tasked with deconstructing the art and visuals of \"Alien\", and reverse-designing them for the chronologically earlier setting of \"Prometheus\". Influence was drawn from the work of \"Alien\" creature designer H. R. Giger, and designers Ron Cobb and Chris Foss, including their designs for that film which Scott had been unable to develop at the time.\n\nFor the crew's space suits, Scott was inspired to include spherical glass helmets after reading a story in Steve Jobs' biography about building an office out of Gorilla Glass. Scott said, \"If I'm in 2083 and I'm going into space, why would I design a helmet that has blind spots. What I want is something where I have 360 [vision]. Glass, by then, will be light and you won't be able to break it with a bullet.\" The interior of the prop helmets had nine functioning video screens, internal lighting, an air supply provided by two fans, and battery packs concealed within a backpack. The helmet's exterior featured a functional light source and high definition video cameras with a transmitter and recorder. For the suit itself, Scott wanted to avoid the unwieldy NASA-style suit. His frequent collaborator, Janty Yates, used medical research concepts relating to skin replacement treatments and materials to develop a garment that would be believable, flexible and comfortable. The outfit comprised a neoprene suit worn under an outer space suit, a base to which the helmet could be attached, and a backpack.\n\nAboard the ship, Yates gave the characters their own distinct looks. Theron is dressed in an ice-silver, silk mohair suit. Yates said, \"[Theron] is the ice queen. It was always our vision to make her look as sculptural as possible\". Fassbender's David is dressed similarly to other crew members, but his outfit was given finer lines to produce a more linear appearance. To create a casual, relaxed appearance, Marshall-Green's Holloway was dressed in hoodies, fisherman pants, and flip-flops, while Elba wore a canvas-greased jacket to represent his long career at the helm of a ship.\n\nArthur Max designed the sets such as the alien world landscape and structures, and the vehicles, including the \"Prometheus\" and the Engineer's ship. Digital 3D models and miniature replicas of each set were built to allow the designers to envisage the connections between them and to know where the CGI elements would be inserted. To better blend the practical and the digital, the design team took rock samples from the Iceland location so they could match the graphical textures with the real rocks. To create the \"Prometheus\", Max researched NASA and European Space Agency spacecraft designs, and extended these concepts with his own ideas of how future space vehicles might look. He said that he wanted \"to do something that was state-of-the-art, which would represent a flagship spacecraft with every technology required to probe into the deepest corners of the galaxy.\"\n\nThe interior of the \"Prometheus\" was built across a two-level structure, fronted by a large, faceted, wrap around windscreen. Theron's quarters were designed to represent her high status in the crew, and were furnished with modern and futuristic items, including Swarovski chandeliers and a Fazioli piano. The ship's garage was built on the backlot of Pinewood Studios in England. The vehicles inside were built in 11 weeks and were designed to operate on difficult terrain while having a futuristic aesthetic. Max created a large pyramid structure for the alien world, which had its main interior areas connected by a series of chambers, corridors, and tunnels; it was so large that some members of the film crew became lost inside it. The pyramid was enhanced in post-production to further increase its size. One of the key sets, the chamber where the crew find the humanoid-head statue, was designed to resemble the interior of a cathedral and convey a quasi-religious impression. Giger designed the murals that appear within the chamber.\n\nFor the scene of the \"Prometheus\" descent to the alien moon LV-223, visual effects art director Steven Messing referenced NASA imagery, including vortex cloud structures. He also used aerial photographs of locations in Iceland and Wadi Rum shot by VFX supervisor Richard Stammers and his team. Messing painted over these images and combined them with 3D set extensions to create a realistic altered landscape. Scott wanted the ship's descent scenes to have a sense of grandeur to contrast the dark and shrouded descent featured in \"Alien\". Much of LV-223s world was based upon the world visited in \"Alien\", but scaled back as Scott felt some elements were too unrealistic. Other influences were the Martian mountain Olympus Mons and several large mountain structures on Earth. NASA advisers provided concepts for the aesthetics of alien worlds which were incorporated into the design work. MPC developed a digital representation of Wadi Rum using the design material, modified it to locate the alien pyramid and a landing area for the \"Prometheus\", and resized the planet's natural features relative to the alien structures.\n\nNeal Scanlan and Conor O'Sullivan developed the film's alien creatures, aiming to convey that each creature has a logical biological function and purpose. Scanlan said that much of Scott's inspiration for creature design is drawn from natural life, such as plants and sea creatures. Creature designer Carlos Huante chose to make the creature designs pale to contrast the black-toned, Giger-influenced aesthetic of \"Alien\". Huante designed them to be white and embryonic because the events in the film occur before Giger's influence had taken effect. Huante took influences from references Scott was using to design the pale-skinned Engineers. Huante also referenced other Giger works, national monuments, large sculptures, and the Crazy Horse Memorial statue in South Dakota. Part of Huante's early design work included developing precursors to \"Alien\"s Facehugger, and a primitive \"Alien\" creature, but these were cut from the final release. When designing the Engineers, Scott and Huante referenced paintings by William Blake and J. M. W. Turner, and classical sculptures. Scott wanted the Engineers to resemble Greco-Roman gods, and instructed designer Neville Page to reference the Statue of Liberty, Michelangelo's \"David\", and Elvis Presley. The 8-foot tall, humanoid Engineers were created by applying bulky, full-body prosthetics to the actors, whose facial features were diminished by the material, and were later digitally enhanced to preserve the \"godlike\" physical perfection. Scott described the Engineers as tall, elegant \"dark angels\".\n\nThe snake-like alien dubbed the \"Hammerpede\" was given life through a mixture of CGI and practical effects, and the wires controlling the practical puppet were digitally removed. For a scene in which the Hammerpede is decapitated, the VFX team digitally animated and inserted the spontaneous growth of a replacement head. During the scene in which the Hammerpede erupts from Spall's character's corpse, Scott controlled the puppet using wires. Scott did not inform Dickie about what was to occur in the scene and her screaming reaction was real. The creature's design was partially inspired by translucent sea creatures with visible arteries, veins, and organs beneath the skin's surface, and cobras. The designers gave the creature a smooth, muscular, and powerful appearance. Early designs of the \"Trilobite\", the tentacled offspring cut from Shaw, resembled an octopus or squid. Page redeveloped this creature as an embryo in an early state of development, with tentacles that began fused together and would gradually split, creating new tentacles, as the creature developed. The practical creature was a remotely operated animatronic creation with a silicone skin.\n\nThe mutated Fifield effects were achieved mainly through the use of make-up and prosthetics. Due to concerns that the practical effects would be unsatisfactory, the filmmakers completed an alternative version of the sequence, in which Fifield was rendered as \"a digital character with elongated limbs and an engorged, translucent head, incorporating a semblance of Harris's face\". Three other variations of the mutated Fifield were modeled, but these were rejected as being too inhuman.\n\nFor its grown form, the \"Adult Trilobite\", Max found inspiration from an arthropod-like creature from Earth's Cambrian period, and the alien octopus in Jean Giraud's illustrations for the comic strip \"The Long Tomorrow\". Further inspiration came after Max found a formaldehyde-preserved giant squid, an image which met with Scott's approval. The film's last-unveiled creature, the \"Deacon\", was named by Scott for its long, pointed head that he considered resembled a bishop's mitre. Scanlan aimed to represent the creature's genetic lineage, beginning with Shaw and Holloway who produce the Trilobite which impregnates the Engineer, in its design. However, the creature was given a somewhat feminine appearance, since \"it was born of a female before being born of a male.\" Messing drew inspiration for the Deacon's birth scene from the birth of foals, and created an iridescent appearance for its skin, based on the equine placenta. The Deacon's protruding jaw was inspired by the goblin shark.\n\nSound effects were generated with a variety of sources including Pop Rocks—a brand of popping candy—and a parrot. The glistening ice forming on the stone cylinders discovered in the film was created by applying the popping candy to materials such as wet metal and stone that was then sprayed with water to produce the \"popping, cracking\" sound. Sound designer Ann Scibelli's parrot was recorded over several weeks to document her variety of vocalizations which were then used as beeps, alarms and the cries of Shaw's alien offspring.\n\n\"Prometheus\" contains approximately 1,300 digital effect shots. The main effects studio was Moving Picture Company (MPC), which produced 420 of the shots. Several other studios, including Weta Digital, Fuel VFX, Rising Sun Pictures, Luma Pictures, Lola Visual Effects, and Hammerhead Productions, also produced effects shots for the film.\n\nThe creation of life from the disintegration of an Engineer in the film's opening scene was created by WETA Digital. The scene was difficult to produce because it had to convey the story of the Engineer's DNA breaking apart, reforming and recombining into Earth DNA in a limited span of time. The team focused on making the DNA stages distinct to convey its changing nature. Scott requested the studio to focus on the destruction occurring within the Engineer. A light color scheme was used for the Engineer's DNA and decayed fish spines were used as an image reference, while the infected DNA had a melted appearance. To find methods of depicting the DNA destruction, the team carved vein-like structures from silicone and pumped black ink and oils into them while filming the changes occurring over an extended period of time.\n\nA key scene involving a large 3D hologram star map, dubbed the Orrery, was inspired by the 1766 Joseph Wright painting \"A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery\", in which a scientist displays a mechanical planetarium by candlelight. While discussing the necessity of a star map with Spaihts, Scott mentioned that he envisaged a physical representation being similar to the painting, although he was unaware of its title and described it as \"circles in circles with a candle lit image\". Using Scott's description, Spaihts located an image of the painting. Spaihts said, \"making the leap from a star map, to an Enlightenment painting, and then back into the far future. [Scott's] mind just multiplexes in that way\". The Orrery was one of the most complex visual effects, contained 80–100 million polygons, and took several weeks to render as a single, complete shot.\n\n\"Prometheus\" marketing campaign began on July 21, 2011 at the San Diego Comic-Con International, where images and footage from the film were presented by Lindelof and Theron; Scott and Rapace participated via satellite contribution. A segment of the footage showed Theron performing naked push-ups, which attracted much attention. A teaser poster was released on December 14, 2011, with the tagline, \"The search for our beginning could lead to our end.\" A bootleg recording of an incomplete trailer was leaked online on November 27, 2011, but was quickly taken down by Fox. The trailer was released on December 22, 2011.\n\nOn March 17, 2012, Scott, in partnership with AMC Theatres, hosted the premiere of the first full \"Prometheus\" trailer at the AMC Downtown Disney during WonderCon in Anaheim, California. The event was streamed live via Facebook, Twitter, and the AMC Theatre website, and the trailer was posted on AMC's YouTube channel immediately after its debut. Reactions to the trailer from WonderCon attendees, and on Twitter, were generally positive, and it received nearly three million views in the three days following its release. On April 10, 2012, media outlets were shown a 13-minute montage of scenes in 3D from the film's opening at the Vue Cinema in Leicester Square, London. The screening, and in particular the 3D visuals and the performances of Fassbender, Rapace, Theron, and Elba, was well received.\n\nOn April 29, 2012, the international launch trailer debuted in the United Kingdom on Channel 4 during the first advertisement break of the TV show \"Homeland\". Viewers were encouraged to share their opinions about the trailer on Twitter, some of which were then shared in a live broadcast during a later break. This was the first time that viewers' tweets were used in a broadcast advertisement. A competition, offering viewers a chance to win tickets to the film whenever the social platform Zeebox detected the advertisement airing, was launched on that site. On May 8, 2012, the advertisement became the subject of an investigation by the British broadcasting regulatory body Ofcom for allegedly breaching broadcast rules when a voiceover encouraged viewers to book tickets during the advertisement with the logo onscreen. The broadcast potentially broke a ruling that advertising and teleshopping must be clearly distinguishable from editorial content.\n\nAlthough marketers typically avoid promoting adult-oriented films to reach a broader demographic, the film attracted several promotional partners including Coors, Amazon, and Verizon FiOS, which were estimated to have spent $30 million in marketing support. Amazon directed interested users to purchase tickets through Fandango, and placed promotional material in products shipped to customers; this was the first time that Amazon had allowed such marketing by an external company. The premiere in London was streamed live via the film's website and the Verizon FiOS Facebook page. The event was facilitated by BumeBox, which took audience questions from social sites and gave them to reporters to ask at the event. The National Entertainment Collectibles Association (NECA) released a series of \"Prometheus\" action figures in September 2012. A book, \"Prometheus: The Art of the Film\", containing production art and behind-the-scenes photographs, was released on June 12, 2012.\n\nA viral marketing campaign began on February 28, 2012, with the release of a video featuring a speech by Pearce, in character as Peter Weyland, about his vision for the future. Set in 2023, the \"TED 2023\" video presents a futuristic vision of a TED conference, an annual technology and design event held in Long Beach, California. The segment was conceived and designed by Scott and Lindelof, and directed by Scott's son, Luke. The production was made in collaboration with, and made available through TED because Lindelof wanted to introduce new audiences to the conference itself. Lindelof said that the scene takes place in a futuristic stadium because \"a guy like Peter Weyland—whose ego is just massive, and the ideas that he's advancing are nothing short of hubris—that he'd basically say to TED, 'If you want me to give a talk, I'm giving it in Wembley Stadium.\n\nTED community director Tom Rielly helped the film's producers gain approval for the use of the TED brand, which had not previously been used for promotional purposes. Rielly was involved in designing the 2023 conference, and said that the association generated millions of unique visits to the TED website. The video's release was accompanied by a fictional TED blog about the 2023 conference and a tie-in website for the fictional Weyland Corporation. On March 6, 2012, the Weyland website was updated to allow visitors to invest in the company as part of a game, which would reveal new \"Prometheus\" media.\n\nDuring the 2012 WonderCon, attendees at the film's panel were given Weyland Corporation business cards that directed them to a website and telephone number. After calling the number, the caller was sent a text message from Weyland Corporation that linked them to a video that was presented as an advertisement for the \"David 8\" android, narrated by Fassbender. An extended version of the video, released on April 17, 2012, lists the android's features, including its ability to seamlessly replicate human emotions without the restrictions of ethics or distress. A full page \"David 8\" advertisement was placed in \"The Wall Street Journal\"; a Twitter account operated by a David8, that allowed Twitter users to ask the character questions, was included. A partnership with Verizon FiOS was launched, offering a virtual tour of the \"Prometheus\" spaceship. Another video, \"Quiet Eye\", starring Rapace as Shaw, was released on May 16, 2012, and debuted on the Verizon FIOS Facebook page. In a telephone call monitored by Yutani, a fictional company from the \"Alien\" series, Shaw requests Weyland's aid to seek out alien life. In France, the Saint-Martin ghost train station was converted to resemble alien architecture from the film, and was visible to passing commuters. The campaign continued after the film's release with a website that was listed during the film's end credits. The site referenced the philosophical novel \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" by Friedrich Nietzsche, and featured a video of Weyland, who quotes from the book. Another video followed in September 2012, featuring Elba's Captain Janek preparing for a mission.\n\nAt the May 2012 Digital Hollywood conference, Lindelof said that the videos originated from the question of the film's status as an \"Alien\" prequel. It was decided that creating videos with the film's stars would generate more interest than any commentary about its connection to the \"Alien\" films. He also said that the videos needed to be cool enough to justify their existence, but not so important that their absence from the final film would be an issue for audiences.\n\nThe premiere of \"Prometheus\" took place on May 31, 2012, at the Empire cinema in Leicester Square, London. The film was released in the United Kingdom on , 2012, and in North America on , 2012. It was simultaneously released in IMAX theaters and in 3D, and it is encoded for D-Box motion seats that provide physical feedback to the audience during the film.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, approximately £1 million ($1.6 million) of tickets were pre-sold. 18,827 tickets pre-sold for the London IMAX, the largest IMAX screen in the country, which broke the theater records for the highest grossing week of pre-sales with £293,312 ($474,687), and the highest grossing first day of pre-sales with £137,000 ($221,717). It extended this record to 30,000 tickets sold and £470,977 ($737,588) earned, and become the most pre-booked film at that theater, exceeding the performance of high-profile IMAX releases including \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2\" and \"Avatar\".\n\nIn North America, audience tracking showed high interest among males, but low among females. In the week before the film's release, predictions were conflicted on whether \"Prometheus\" or \"\" (the first family-oriented film of the summer), which were released simultaneously, would reach number 1 for that weekend. On June 6, 2012, Fandango reported that with 42% of daily sales \"Prometheus\" was beating \"Madagascar 3\". The online tracking for \"Prometheus\" surged with each additional promotional footage. \"Prometheus\" was predicted to earn approximately $30 million, and \"Madagascar 3\" around $45 million. As the weekend approached, tracking suggested a $55 million debut for \"Madagascar 3\" and $50–$55 million for \"Prometheus\". \"Prometheus\" was disadvantaged by \"Madagascar\" opening in 264 more theaters and its adult rating.\n\n\"Prometheus\" was considered a financial success overall. After a strong start in North America, the film failed to meet the studio's expectations, but it continued to perform strongly in other territories until the end of its theatrical run. \"Prometheus\" earned $126.4 million (31.4%) in North America and $276.9 million (68.6%) elsewhere for a worldwide total of $403.4 million, making it the 18th highest-grossing film of 2012, and at its peak it was the 155th highest-grossing film worldwide unadjusted for inflation.\n\"Prometheus\" was released in 15 markets between May 30 and June 1, 2012—about a week before its North American release. The earlier start in these countries was timed to avoid competition with the start of the 2012 UEFA European Football Championship the following week. On its opening day, which varies depending on the country, it earned $3.39 million in the United Kingdom, $2.2 million in Russia, and $1.5 million in France. The film earned $34.8 million during its opening weekend from 4,695 theaters in 15 markets, and debuted at number 1 in 14 of them, with an average of $7,461 per theater. Its overall rank for the weekend was third behind \"Men in Black 3\" and \"Snow White & the Huntsman\". Its opening weekends in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Malta ($10.1 million), Russia and the CIS ($9.80 million), and France and the Maghreb region ($6.68 million) represented its largest takings. By June 8, the film had opened in a total of 50 markets, and was also successful during its opening weekends in Australia ($7.2 million) and South Korea ($4.2 million). During its late August opening in Japan, the film earned $9.6 million.\nIn North America, \"Prometheus\" earned $3.561 million in midnight showings at 1,368 theaters, including $1.03 million from 294 IMAX theaters, and went on to earn $21.4 million through its opening day. During its opening weekend, the film earned $51.05 million from 3,396 theaters—an average of $15,032 per theater—ranking second behind \"Madagascar 3\" ($60.4 million), which made it the second largest opening for a film directed by Scott behind his 2001 thriller \"Hannibal\", the third largest second-place opening, the ninth largest opening for a prequel, and the tenth largest for an R-rated film. The largest demographic of the opening weekend audience was over the age of 25 (64%) and male (57%). 3D showings accounted for 54% of ticket sales, while IMAX contributed 18%—the majority of which was accounted for in the 3D figure. The film closed on September 20, 2012 after 105 days (15 weeks) in release with a total gross of $126.4 million. The figure made it the number 43 highest-grossing film to never finish a week as the number 1 film.\n\nThe film garnered a 73% approval rating from 288 critics—an average rating of 7/10 on the review-aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, which said, \"Ridley Scott's ambitious quasi-prequel to \"Alien\" may not answer all of its big questions, but it's redeemed by its haunting visual grandeur and compelling performances—particularly Michael Fassbender as a fastidious android.\" Metacritic provides a score of 65 out of 100 from 42 critics, which indicates \"generally favorable\" reviews. CinemaScore polls reported that the average grade moviegoers gave the film was a \"B\" on a scale of A+ to F, while audience members under 25 rated it the highest at A-. Reviews frequently praised both the film's visual aesthetic and design, and Fassbender's performance as the android David received almost universal acclaim. However the plot drew a mixed response from critics, who criticized plot elements that remained unresolved or were predictable, tempered by appreciation for the action and horror set-pieces.\n\n\"The Hollywood Reporter\"s Todd McCarthy called the film's visuals vivid, stunning, and magnificent on a technical level, and praised the performances of Fassbender, Rapace, and Theron, but wrote that the film \"caters too much to imagined audience expectations when a little more adventurous thought might have taken it to some excitingly unsuspected destinations.\" \"Time Out London\"s Tom Huddleston wrote that \"the photography is pleasingly crisp and the design is stunning\", but that, \"[t]he script feels flat ... the dialogue is lazy, while the plot, though crammed with striking concepts, simply fails to coalesce. After an enjoyable setup, the central act is baggy, confusing and, in places, slightly boring, while the climax has flash and fireworks but no real momentum.\" Emanuel Levy wrote that the writing was his only complaint about the film, which, he said, \"is not only uneven, but promises more original ideas and thematic provocations than it can possibly deliver.\" Roger Ebert gave the film 4 out of 4 stars, labeling it a \"seamless blend of story, special effects and pitch-perfect casting, filmed in sane, effective 3-D that doesn't distract.\" Ebert wrote that Rapace's performance \"continues here the tradition of awesome feminine strength begun by Sigourney Weaver in \"Alien\"\", but considered that Elba's Janek has the most interesting character evolution. Ebert thought that the plot raises questions and does not answer them, which made the film intriguing and parallel to the \"classic tradition of golden age sci-fi\". He later went on to name it as one of the best films of 2012.\n\n\"Total Film\"s Jonathan Crocker wrote that the plot successfully integrated itself with \"Alien\"s mythology while offering its own original ideas. \"Entertainment Weekly\"s Lisa Schwarzbaum was positive towards the cast, particularly Rapace, and the cinematography. \"Salon\"s Andrew O'Hehir wrote that the film was \"somber, spectacular and ponderous\", but that the \"portentousness and grandiosity ... is at once the film's great strength and great weakness\" and criticized the characters for lacking common sense. O'Hehir also mentioned Wolski's cinematography and Max's production design. \"The New York Times\"' A. O. Scott criticized the story as weak, and argued that the narrative's twists and reversals undermine its \"lofty, mindblowing potential\". He said the film has no revelations, just \"bits of momentarily surprising information bereft of meaning or resonance\", and that Rapace is a \"fine heroine, vulnerable and determined\".\n\n\"Variety\" film critic Justin Chang wrote that the film's narrative structure was unable to handle the philosophical dimension of the plot, and that \"Prometheus\" was lazily deferring key plot points under the presumption that a sequel would be made. \"The Guardian's\" Peter Bradshaw wrote that \"Prometheus\" was \"more grandiose, more elaborate—but less interesting\" than \"Alien\", and lacked the latter's \"central killer punch\". Ian Nathan of \"Empire\" magazine was unimpressed by Rapace—whom he described as an unconvincing lead—and said that with \"a lack of suspense, threadbare characters, and a very poor script, the stunning visuals, gloopy madness, and sterling Fassbenderiness can't prevent \"Prometheus\" feeling like \"Alien\"s poor relation.\" \"The Village Voice\"s Nick Pinkerton wrote that the film is \"prone to shallow ponderousness\", and that Scott \"can still mimic the appearance of an epic, noble, important movie—but the appearance is all.\" He criticized Rapace and Marshall-Green for failing to instill interest in their characters' relationship, but added: \"there are a few set pieces here that will find a place of honor among aficionados of body horror and all things clammy and viscous\".\n\nJames Cameron said: \"I enjoyed \"Prometheus\". I thought it was great. I thought it was Ridley returning to science fiction with gusto, with great tactical performance, beautiful photography, great native 3D. There might have been a few things that I would have done differently, but that's not the point—you could say that about any movie.\"\n\nIn North America, \"Prometheus\" DVD and Blu-ray disc releases were listed for pre-order in partnership with Amazon on June 1, 2012, a week before the film was released in theaters. A limited number of cinema tickets for the film were offered as a pre-order incentive. In June 2012, \"FX\" obtained the rights to the film's network television premiere. On September 7, 2012, Fox announced that \"Prometheus\" would be the launch title of its new digital distribution initiative \"Digital HD\". The film was released on September 18, 2012, three weeks prior to its DVD, Blu-ray disc and Video on demand (VOD) release, for downloading and streaming through platforms including Amazon, iTunes, PlayStation Network and Xbox Live in over 50 countries. The film was released on Blu-ray disc and DVD on October 9, 2012. The Blu-ray disc edition of the film was released in a 2-disc set and a 4-disc \"Collector's Edition\". Both versions contain the theatrical cut of \"Prometheus\", commentary by Scott, Lindelof and Spaihts, a DVD and digital copy of the film, alternate and deleted scenes, and other features. Additionally, the Collector's Edition contains the 3D version of the film and approximately 7 hours of supplemental features including a documentary on the film's production. On October 8, 2012, it was reported that Fox had requested an extended version of the film for home media, but Scott refused to edit cut scenes back into the theatrical version of the film, which he considered his director's cut. During its first week of sale in the United Kingdom, \"Prometheus\" was the number 1 selling film on DVD and Blu-ray Disc, outselling its nearest competitor by a factor of three. An Ultra HD Blu-ray version is scheduled for release in September 2017.\n\nScott discussed a continuation of the series in March 2012, saying that \"Prometheus\" leaves many questions unanswered and that these could be answered in a sequel. In June 2012, Lindelof said that while plot elements were deliberately left unresolved so that they could be answered in a sequel, he and Scott had thoroughly discussed what should be resolved so that \"Prometheus\" could stand alone, as a sequel was not guaranteed. By August 2012, a sequel was announced to be in development for release no earlier than 2014. Lindelof chose not to work on the new film, citing other commitments. Titled \"\", the sequel premiered in London, England on May 4, 2017, and was released in the United States on May 19, 2017. Set eleven years after the events of \"Prometheus\", \"Alien: Covenant\"s story follows the crew of the Covenant space ship who land on an uncharted and seemingly uninhabited planet. The film stars Katherine Waterston, Danny McBride, Demian Bichir, Jussie Smollett, Amy Seimetz, Carmen Ejogo, Callie Hernandez, Alex England and Billy Crudup. On release, \"Alien: Covenant\" earned a worldwide box office gross of $240.7 million (compared to \"Prometheus\" $403.4 million), and received generally favorable reviews. A sequel to \"Alien: Covenant\" is in development.\n\nIn 2013, a comic book series was announced by Dark Horse Comics that serves as a spin-off to \"Prometheus\". The series, titled \"Fire and Stone\", is an \"Alien vs. Predator\" crossover featuring content exclusive to \"Prometheus\". The first issue of \"Fire and Stone\" was released on September 10, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12347464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12347464", "title": "Rolando Bohol", "text": "Rolando Bohol\n\nRolando Bohol (born December 25, 1965) is a Filipino former professional boxer who competed from 1984 to 1994. He held the IBF flyweight title in 1988, and challenged once for the IBF bantamweight title in 1994.\n\nBohol turned professional in 1984 and got a draw on his first match. After 15 matches (13 wins and 2 draws), Bohol lost to Dadoy Andujar by a 10-round decision on September 29, 1985. His first fight outside home soil took place in Sokcho South Korea against Joon Huh on July 20, 1986.\n\nEleven bouts later, he won the International Boxing Federation IBF World Flyweight title on January 16, 1988, by defeating Chang Ho Choi in Manila and regained the world title back for the Philippines. Bohol defended the title successfully by defeating Cho-Woon Park by unanimous decision on May 6, 1988. Then, he lost it to Duke McKenzie in London, England on October 5, 1988.\n\nBohol won the Oriental & Pacific Boxing Federation OPBF Super Flyweight title against Thailand's Maphai Narachavat by a knock-out in 6 rounds. He successfully defended the title by defeating former International Boxing Federation IBF World Fyweight champion Jong-Kwan Chung August 4, 1989. In that same year, he lost the title against Tatsuya Sugi. He would later avenge this loss against Sugi via a tenth round knock-out in Honolulu, Hawaii on February 21, 1994. Aside from boxing Bohol is also an actor. He already appeared in two pictures taking the leading man role in the movies en-titled Kambal na Kamao. After a major car accident in Honolulu, Hawaii, which propelled Rolando's retirement plans quicker than he expected, Bohol moved to Las Vegas in 2006. Rolando Bohol currently owns an Internet electronics store operating from Las Vegas, Nevada, United States, where he resides.\n\n"}
{"id": "33477800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33477800", "title": "Sheikh Nur Mohamed Abkey", "text": "Sheikh Nur Mohamed Abkey\n\nSheikh Nur Mohamed Abkey (ca.1958 - 4 May 2010) was a Somalian journalist killed in the line of duty. Abkey worked for Radio Mogadishu-Voice of Somali Republic in Somalia's capital city. He had a long career as a journalist and worked under difficult conditions during the last two decades of his career.\n\nAbkey was a well-known journalist in Somalia who had been working for media concerns since at least 1988 or possibly 1970. He had worked for East Africa Radio, SONA (the Somali News Agency), the radio station HornAfrik and for the Somali Television Network as a comedian and news anchor before going to work for Radio Mogadishu where he trained journalists with the country's Information Ministry. Associates said he turned down suggestions that for security he should live at the radio station and that he refused to be intimidated by the factions fighting in Mogadishu.\n\nHe was abducted by armed hooded men early on the morning of 4 May and then later that day shot to death near his home in the Wardhigley neighbourhood of the capital. The editor of Radio Mogadishu, Abdirahman Yusuf, was quoted as saying, \"Al Shabaab men have killed Sheikh Nur Abkey ... after they killed him, they called us and told us they killed him.\" Abdolaziz Mohamed Guled, Radio Magadishu's political correspondent said that Abkey was tortured before he was killed by his kidnappers. and eyewitnesses stated that Abkey's body was dumped on a Mogadishu street.\n\nIt is believed that Abkey was killed because he was an employee of the government-run Radio Mogadishu, which had been against the extreme insurgents.\n\nAlmost immediately, the International Press Institute condemned Abkey's murder. and in July 2010, Amnesty International condemned the killing of journalists and called for both the government forces and the armed militias to respect freedom of expression. \n\nThe Secretary-General of the National Union of Somali Journalists, a partner-organization with Reporters Without Borders, said, \"Somali journalists are being murdered just for reporting their stories independently or because they work for a particular news media. The loss of this experienced journalist is heartbreaking for his family and colleagues, but it is also a blow to the entire Somali people.\" \n\nIrina Bokova, the director-general of UNESCO, said, \"I condemn the murder of Sheikh Nur Abkey. His brutal killing is a heinous crime against a brave journalist and against Somali society as a whole. Nothing good will come to the people of Somalia from those seeking to deprive citizens of the right to know and journalists of the basic human right of freedom of expression...\" \n\n"}
{"id": "15281113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15281113", "title": "Shield budding", "text": "Shield budding\n\nShield budding, also known as T-budding, is a technique of grafting to change varieties of fruit trees. Typically used in fruit tree propagation, it can also be used for many other kinds of nursery stock. An extremely sharp knife is necessary; specialty \"budding knives\" are on the market. A budding knife is a small knife with a type of spatula at the other end of the handle. The rootstock or stock plant may be cut off above the bud at budding, or one may wait until it is certain that the bud is growing.\n\nFruit tree budding is done when the bark \"slips,\" i.e. the cambium is moist and actively growing. Rootstocks are young trees, either seedlings as Mazzard cherries for many cherry varieties, or clonal rootstocks (usually propagated by layering) when one wants highly consistent plants with well defined characteristics. The popular Malling-Merton series of rootstocks for apples was developed in England, and are used today for the majority of the commercial apple orchard trees.\n\nT-budding is the most common style, whereby a T-shaped slit is made in the stock plant, and the knife is flexed from side to side in the lower slit to loosen up the bark. Scion wood is selected from the chosen variety, as young, actively growing shoots. Usually, buds at the tip, or at the older parts of the shoot are discarded, and only two to four buds are taken for use. The buds are in the leaf axils. They may be so tiny as to be almost unnoticeable.\n\nHolding the petiole of the leaf as a handle, an oval of the main stem is sliced off, including the petiole and the bud. This is immediately slid into the T on the rootstock, before it can dry out. The joined bud and rootstock are held by a winding of rubber band, which will hold it until sealed, but the band will deteriorate in the sunlight so it soon breaks and does not pinch new growth, girdling the shoot.\n\nThe percentage of \"take\" of the buds depends on the natural compatibility of the stock and scion, the sharpness of the knife, and the skill of the budder; even the experts will have some buds die.\n"}
{"id": "49663849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49663849", "title": "Shyam Sundar Baishnab", "text": "Shyam Sundar Baishnab\n\nShyam Sundar Baishnab (died 4 December 2000) was a Bangladeshi folk singer. He was awarded Ekushey Padak in 2008 by the Government of Bangladesh for his contribution to music.\n\nBaishnab originated from Chittagong.\n"}
{"id": "52818142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52818142", "title": "Steinar Aadnekvam", "text": "Steinar Aadnekvam\n\nSteinar Aadnekvam (born 4 April 1984 in Bergen, Norway), is a Norwegian jazz guitarist.\n\nAadnekvam got his first guitar at the age of 4, and found comfort in playing while growing up in different towns and cities in Norway, Denmark, Italy, Luxembourg and Sweden. By the age of 9 he was composing music and listening to artists like Elvis Presley, Prince and Michael Jackson. As teenager his interest turned to Jazz when discovering artists like Charlie Parker, John McLaughlin, Miles Davis, Rhasaan Roland Kirk, Abdullah Ibrahim and later composers like Egberto Gismonti, Hermeto Pascoal and Indian classical music among others.\n\nAfter musical studies at Södra Latins gymnasium, followed by studies at the Royal College of Music, Stockholm, Sweden, with notable teachers at this time including Mikke Rönnkvist, Thomas Wixtröm, Andreas Oberg, Alvaro Is Rojas and Sten Hostfalt. Aadnekvam turned his curiosity outwards as he decided to travel to Mumbai, India for studies with classical Indian master flutist Hariprasad Chaurasia at his intern school Vrindaban Gurukul. Soon after fate would also have him make his first travel to north-eastern Brasil, an acquaintance that made an even deeper impact on him and for almost a decade he now finds his second home in the state of Pernambuco where two of his albums have been recorded collaborating with some of the regions finest musicians.\n\nIn 2009 Aadnekvam was nominated for the 'Young Nordic Guitarist Award' by the Uppsala International Guitar Festival, and in 2010 finalist at the 'Norsk JazzIntro' at Moldejazz he started his own record label 'MMYH Records' (Music Makes You Happy) with his debut album \"Simple Things\" (2010). In the following years he played feature concerts at clubs and major jazz festivals in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Latvia, Poland and Romania and later turned to working on his two Brazilian album collaborations \"Abacaxeiro\" and 'Ecology' and extensive concert touring, masterclasses, tv appearances and radio broadcasts related to these in the Nordics and in Brasil.\n\nIn 2015 Aadnekvam signed for the Norwegian label Losen Records for his fourth studio album \"Freedoms Tree\" (2015), featuring an international all-star ensemble including several outstanding musical guests. The album turned out to be a great success and the full 7 piece ensemble will present a concert at the 2016 Stavanger International Jazz Festival, MaiJazz. The collaboration with Losen Records continued with the release of the album \"Freedoms Trio\" (2016), witch also names his new collaboration and working band featuring bassistand vocalist Rubem Farias from São Paulo, Brasil and drummer and singer Deodato Siquir from Maputo, Mozambique.\n\n"}
{"id": "29409415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29409415", "title": "Sturt (biology)", "text": "Sturt (biology)\n\nIn embryology, sturt is a measure of distance. On the fate map, the further apart two regions are, the more likely the resulting structures are to form different genotypes. A difference of 1% in the ratio of differing genotypes is described as one sturt, after Alfred Henry Sturtevant.\n"}
{"id": "223011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223011", "title": "Teratology", "text": "Teratology\n\nTeratology is the study of abnormalities of physiological development. It is often thought of as the study of human congenital abnormalities, but it is broader than that, taking into account other non-birth developmental stages, including puberty; and other organisms, including plants. The related term developmental toxicity includes all manifestations of abnormal development that are caused by environmental insult. These may include growth retardation, delayed mental development or other congenital disorders without any structural malformations.\n\nTeratogens are substances that may cause birth defects via a toxic effect on an embryo or fetus.\n\nThe term \"teratology\" stems from the Greek \"teras\" (genitive \"teratos\"), meaning \"monster\" or \"marvel\", and \"logos\", meaning \"the word\" or, more loosely, \"the study of\".\n\nAs early as the 17th century, \"teratology\" referred to a discourse on prodigies and marvels of anything so extraordinary as to seem abnormal. In the 19th century it acquired a meaning more closely related to biological deformities, mostly in the field of botany. Currently, its most instrumental meaning is that of the medical study of teratogenesis, congenital malformations or individuals with significant malformations. Historically, people have used many pejorative terms to describe/label cases of significant physical malformations.\nIn the 1960s David W. Smith of the University of Washington Medical School (one of the researchers who became known in 1973 for the discovery of fetal alcohol syndrome), popularized the term \"teratology\". With the growth of understanding of the origins of birth defects, the field of teratology overlaps with other fields of science, including developmental biology, embryology, and genetics.\nUntil the 1940s teratologists regarded birth defects as primarily hereditary. In 1941 the first well-documented cases of environmental agents being the cause of severe birth defects were reported.\n\nAlong with this new awareness of the \"in utero\" vulnerability of the developing mammalian embryo came the development and refinement of \"The Six Principles of Teratology\" which are still applied today. These principles of teratology were put forth by Jim Wilson in 1959 and in his monograph \"Environment and Birth Defects\". These principles guide the study and understanding of teratogenic agents and their effects on developing organisms:\n\n\nStudies designed to test the teratogenic potential of environmental agents use animal model systems (e.g., rat, mouse, rabbit, dog, and monkey). Early teratologists exposed pregnant animals to environmental agents and observed the fetuses for gross visceral and skeletal abnormalities. While this is still part of the teratological evaluation procedures today, the field of Teratology is moving to a more molecular level, seeking the mechanism(s) of action by which these agents act. Genetically modified mice are commonly used for this purpose. In addition, pregnancy registries are large, prospective studies that monitor exposures women receive during their pregnancies and record the outcome of their births. These studies provide information about possible risks of medications or other exposures in human pregnancies.\n\nUnderstanding how a teratogen causes its effect is not only important in preventing congenital abnormalities but also has the potential for developing new therapeutic drugs safe for use with pregnant women.\n\nIn humans, congenital disorders resulted in about 510,000 deaths globally in 2010.\n\nAbout 3% of newborns have a \"major physical anomaly\", meaning a physical anomaly that has cosmetic or functional significance.\n\nIn humans, vaccination has become readily available, and is important to the prevention of some diseases like polio, rubella, and smallpox, among others. There has been no association between congenital malformations and vaccination, as shown in Finland in which expecting mothers received the oral polio vaccine and saw no difference in infant outcomes than mothers who had not received the vaccine. However, it is still not recommended to vaccinate for polio while pregnant unless there is risk of infection . Another important implication of this includes the ability to get the influenza vaccine while pregnant. During the 1918 and 1957 influenza pandemics, mortality in pregnant women was 45%. However, even with prevention through vaccination, influenza vaccination in pregnant women remains low at 12%. Munoz et al. demonstrated that there was no adverse outcomes observed in the new infants or mothers.\n\nCauses of teratogenesis can broadly be classified as:\n\nEvidence for congenital deformities found in the fossil record is studied by paleopathologists, specialists in ancient disease and injury. Fossils bearing evidence of congenital deformity are scientifically significant because they can help scientists infer the evolutionary history of life's developmental processes. For instance, because a \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" specimen has been discovered with a block vertebra, it means that vertebrae have been developing the same basic way since at least the most recent common ancestor of dinosaurs and mammals. Other notable fossil deformities include a hatchling specimen of the bird-like dinosaur, \"Troodon\", the tip of whose jaw was twisted. Another notably deformed fossil was a specimen of the choristodere \"Hyphalosaurus\", which had two heads- the oldest known example of polycephaly.\n\nIn botany, teratology investigates the theoretical implications of abnormal specimens. For example, the discovery of abnormal flowers—for example, flowers with leaves instead of petals, or flowers with staminoid pistils—furnished important evidence for the \"foliar theory\", the theory that all flower parts are highly specialised leaves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20058880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20058880", "title": "The Myth of Male Power", "text": "The Myth of Male Power\n\nThe Myth of Male Power: Why Men are the Disposable Sex is a 1993 book by Warren Farrell, in which Farrell argues that the widespread perception of men having inordinate social and economic power is false, and that men are systematically disadvantaged in many ways.\n\nLike Herb Goldberg's \"The Hazards of Being Male\", Farrell's \"The Myth of Male Power\" is considered a standard of the men's movement, and has been translated into several languages, including German and Italian.\n\nIn \"The Myth of Male Power\", Warren Farrell offered his first in-depth outline of the thesis he would eventually apply in his subsequent books—books on communication (\"Women Can’t Hear What Men Don’t Say\"), parenting (\"Father and Child Reunion\"), and the workplace (\"Why Men Earn More\").\nAs \"The Myth of Male Power's\" title implies, Farrell challenges the belief that men have the power by challenging the definition of power. Farrell defines power as \"control over one's life.\" He writes that, \"In the past, neither sex had power; both sexes had roles: women's role was [to] raise children; men's role was [to] raise money.\"\nOne of the examples that Farrell uses to illustrate male powerlessness is male-only draft registration. He writes that if any other single group (the examples he lists are Jews, African-Americans, and women) were selected based on their birth characteristics to be the only group required by law to register for potential death, we would call it anti-Semitism, racism or genocidal sexism. Men, he says, have been socialized to call it \"glory\" and \"power,\" and as a result do not view this as a negative.\n\nFarrell contends that this viewpoint creates psychological problems for both sexes: that \"men's weakness is their facade of strength; women's strength is their facade of weakness.\" He adds that societies have generally socialized boys and men to define power as, in essence, \"feeling obligated to earn money someone else spends while we die sooner.\" Feeling obligated, he contends, is not power.\n\nThe subtitle of the book is \"Why Men are the Disposable Sex.\" Farrell argues that historically both sexes were disposable in the service of survival: women risked death in childbirth; men risked death in war. However, Farrell notes, there is a key difference: women's disposability emanated more from biology; men's expendability required socialization.\n\nFarrell observes various characteristics of modern US society, such as the tendency to assign higher-risk jobs - soldier, firefighter, coal miner, and so on - to men: almost all of the most hazardous professions are all-male, and segments within professions have higher percentages of men as their level of hazard increases. Other statistics, in conjunction with the lack of public outcry or mobilization around them, point in the same direction of male expendability. Men are victims of violent crime twice as often as women and are \"three times more likely to be murder victims\". Suicide rates are much higher for men than for women. While the death rates for breast cancer and prostate cancer are comparable, the US spends six times as much on breast cancer.\n\nThese statistics, Farrell suggests, can only be explained if US society places greater value on the lives of women than of men. Todd Jones cites this as an example of abductive reasoning: rightly or wrongly, Farrell assumes that such behavior is rational, and the only explanation then is that \"women are actually perceived as the valuable gender (especially in evolutionary terms) who need to be protected and preserved at all cost, while men (a dime a dozen in evolutionary terms) are thought of as essentially disposable\".\n\nFarrell posits that men and women need to make an evolutionary shift from a focus on survival to a focus on a proper balance between survival and fulfillment.\n\nHe claims that the women's movement has led to the re-socialization of girls to become women who balance survival with fulfillment but that there has been no similar re-socialization of boys to become men who pursue that balance once they take on the responsibility of children. Thus, Farrell believes, boys and men are decades behind girls and women psychologically and socially, and increasingly behind women academically and economically.\nIn Farrell's recent presentations on this topic, he estimates that men are in 2011 where women were in 1961.\n\nFarrell's political solution is \"neither a women's movement blaming men nor a men's movement blaming women, but a gender transition movement.\" He defines a gender transition movement as one that fosters a transition from the rigid roles of our past to more flexible roles for the future.\n\nMen, Farrell posits, learn to earn money to gain the approval of their parents and the respect of other men; heterosexual men also learn to earn money to earn their way to female love (\"Women don't marry men reading \"Why Men Are the Way They Are\" in the unemployment line.\")\n\nFarrell introduced in \"The Myth of Male Power\" a thesis that he pursued in-depth in \"Why Men Earn More\" in 2005: that earning money involves forfeiting power. He goes on to describe his theory that earning money is less about power, and more about trade-offs. Farrell proposes that \"the road to high pay is a toll road--you earn more when you pay 25 specific tolls such as working more hours, or taking less-fulfilling or more-hazardous jobs...\"\n\nAcademic Kenneth Clatterbaugh, in an overview of literature of the men's movement, comments that \"eventually, [Farrell's] arguments reach absurd heights, as when Farrell actually argues against sexual harassment laws and child molestation laws on the grounds that they give even more power (to abuse men) to (women) employees and children\".\n\nSocial critic Camille Paglia, writing for \"The Washington Post\", sais \"The Myth of Male Power\" \"attacks the unexamined assumptions of feminist discourse with shocking candor and forces us to see our everyday world from a fresh perspective\", though she added that Farrell is sometimes guilty of \"questionable selectiveness or credulity about historical sources\". Paglia nevertheless concludes that the book \"is the kind of original, abrasive, heretical text that is desperately needed to restore fairness and balance to the present ideology-sodden curriculum of women's studies courses.\"\n\nReviewer Robert Winder describes the book as \"shock-horror hyperbole posing as scholarship\" and goes on to write \"...Farrell might be right to see the gender conflict as a war to which only one side has turned up, but this is only a sarcastic way of confessing to an authentic male worry: the twinge of jealousy men sometimes feel when confronted by feminine solidarity. Farrell, however, just like some of his female opposite numbers, prefers accusation to self-examination\".\n\nLinda Mealey notes that the book is recommended reading for educators in the social sciences, particularly gender studies; she does critique Farrell, for easily seeing causality in correlation.\n\nAcademic Margot Mifflin, writes that \"most of Farrell’s tit-for-tat theories about man’s greater societal burden are slanted, self-serving, and absurdly simplistic.\"\n\nAnthropologist Melvin Konner writes that, like Christina Hoff Sommers' \"Who Stole Feminism?\" (1994), \"The Myth of Male Power\" is a good antidote to the way in which \"real knowledge about sex roles...tends to get buried in postmodernist rhetoric.\"\n\nThe Los Angeles Times notes that \"...some critics say 'The Myth of Male Power' goes beyond the nurturing rituals of the male movement to mount an outright assault on the victories of the modern women's movement.\"\n\nAn article in Mother Jones notes that the book \"...has spawned a network of activists and sites that take Farrell’s ideology in a disturbing direction.\"\n\nThe book includes several factual errors concerning murderer Laurie Dann, who is used as an example of violence against men by women. Farrell states that all of her victims were male, that she burned down a Young Men's Jewish Council, burned two boys in a basement, shot her own son, and alleged that she killed an eight-year old rapist. Some men's rights activists, academics, and media figures have repeated Farrell's errors and conclusion. Farrell later issued a correction on his web site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "856958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=856958", "title": "Virginia Rappe", "text": "Virginia Rappe\n\nVirginia Rappe (; July 7, 1895 – September 9, 1921) was an American model and silent film actress. She worked mostly in small bit parts, and is best known for her death after attending a party with actor Roscoe \"Fatty\" Arbuckle, who was accused of complicity in her death, though ultimately exonerated.\n\nVirginia Caroline Rappe was born in Chicago, Illinois to an unwed mother, Mabel Rappe, who died when Virginia was 11. Virginia was then raised by her grandmother in Chicago. At age 14, she began working as a commercial and art model.\n\nIn 1916, Rappe relocated to San Francisco to pursue her career as an artist's model, where she met dress designer Robert Moscovitz, to whom she became engaged. However, shortly after the engagement, Moscovitz was killed in a streetcar accident, whereupon Rappe moved to Los Angeles. In early 1917, she was hired by director Fred Balshofer and given a prominent role in his film \"Paradise Garden\", opposite popular screen star Harold Lockwood. Balshofer then hired her again to costar with early drag performer Julian Eltinge and newcomer Rudolph Valentino in \"Over the Rhine\", for which she was awarded the title of \"Best Dressed Girl in Pictures\". This film was not released until 1920, when Balshofer recut it and released it under the title \"An Adventuress\", and later in 1922, after Rappe's death, as \"The Isle of Love\".\n\nIn 1919, Rappe began a relationship with director/producer Henry Lehrman. The two eventually became engaged and lived together, although in the United States Census of 1920, the young actress is listed simply as a \"Boarder\" in Lehrman's home in Los Angeles. Rappe appeared in at least four films for Lehrman: \"His Musical Sneeze\", \"A Twilight Baby\", \"Punch of the Irish\" and \"A Game Lady\". However, since many of Lehrman's films are lost, the exact number of roles she performed for him cannot be determined.\n\nThe circumstances of Rappe's death in 1921 became a Hollywood scandal and were covered widely (and sensationalized) by the media of the time. During a party held on Labor Day, September 5, 1921, in Roscoe \"Fatty\" Arbuckle's suite, number 1219, at the St. Francis Hotel in San Francisco, Rappe allegedly suffered a trauma. She died on September 9 from a ruptured bladder and secondary peritonitis. She was buried at Hollywood Forever Cemetery.\n\nRumors arose, supposedly to besmirch her character, that Rappe had given birth to a child in Chicago in 1918, and that the child was given to foster care. These rumors were proven false by autopsy.\n\nThe exact events of that party are still unclear, with witnesses relating numerous versions of what happened. It was alleged that Rappe had died as a result of a violent sexual assault by Arbuckle. Arbuckle's accuser, Bambina Maude Delmont, had accompanied Rappe to the party; she had first met Rappe only a few days earlier. (Delmont was a notorious character with an extensive police record for extortion, prostitution and blackmail.) Subsequent witnesses testified that Rappe had for some time suffered from cystitis, and that consuming alcohol could aggravate that condition. Witnesses also testified that she had previously suffered from venereal disease, so there were allegations that her death was brought on by her health rather than by an assault.\n\nAfter three manslaughter trials, Arbuckle was formally acquitted; his acquittal in the third trial was accompanied by an unprecedented statement of apology from the jury stating, in part, that, \"Acquittal is not enough for Roscoe Arbuckle. We feel that a great injustice has been done him… there was not the slightest proof adduced to connect him in any way with the commission of a crime.\" Nevertheless, Arbuckle's reputation and career were ruined because of the scandal.\n\nThe case has been examined by scholars and historians over the years and is still speculated about today, and a number of detailed books about the case have analyzed the incident and subsequent trials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2970322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2970322", "title": "Visual agnosia", "text": "Visual agnosia\n\nVisual agnosia is an impairment in recognition of visually presented objects. It is not due to a deficit in vision (acuity, visual field, and scanning), language, memory, or intellect. While cortical blindness results from lesions to primary visual cortex, visual agnosia is often due to damage to more anterior cortex such as the posterior occipital and/or temporal lobe(s) in the brain. There are two types of visual agnosia: apperceptive agnosia and associative agnosia.\n\nRecognition of visual objects occurs at two primary levels. At an apperceptive level, the features of the visual information from the retina are put together to form a perceptual representation of an object. At an associative level, the meaning of an object is attached to the perceptual representation and the object is identified. If a person is unable to recognize objects because they cannot perceive correct forms of the objects, although their knowledge of the objects is intact (i.e. they do not have anomia), they have apperceptive agnosia. If a person correctly perceives the forms and has knowledge of the objects, but cannot identify the objects, they have associative agnosia.\n\nWhile most cases of visual agnosia are seen in older adults who have experienced extensive brain damage, there are also cases of young children with less brain damage during developmental years acquiring the symptoms. Commonly, visual agnosia presents as an inability to recognize an object in the absence of other explanations, such as blindness or partial blindness, anomia, memory loss, etc.. Other common manifestations of visual agnosia that are generally tested for include difficulty identifying objects that look similar in shape, difficulty with identifying line drawings of objects, and recognizing objects that are shown from less common views, such as a horse from a top-down view.\n\nWithin any given patient, a variety of symptoms can occur, and the impairment of ability is not only binary but can range in severity. For example, Patient SM is a prosopagnosic with a unilateral lesion to left extrastriate cortex due to an accident in his twenties who displays behavior similar to congenital prosopagnosia. Although he can recognize facial features and emotions – indeed he sometimes uses a standout feature to recognize a face – face recognition is almost impossible purely from visual stimuli, even for faces of friends, family, and himself. The disorder also affects his memory of faces, both in storing new memories of faces and recalling stored memories.\n\nNevertheless, it is important to note the reach of symptoms to other domains. SM’s object recognition is similarly impaired though not entirely; when given line drawings to identify, he was able to give names of objects with properties similar to the drawing, implying that he is able to see the features of the drawing. Similarly, copying a line drawing of a beach scene led to a simplified version of the drawing, though the main features were accounted for. For recognition of places, he is still impaired but familiar places are remembered and new places can be stored into memory.\n\nVisual agnosia occurs after damage to visual association cortex or to parts of the ventral stream of vision, known as the \"what pathway\" of vision for its role in object recognition. This occurs even when no damage has been done to the eyes or optic tract that leads visual information into the brain; in fact, visual agnosia occurs when symptoms cannot be explained by such damage. Damage to specific areas of the ventral stream impair the ability to recognize certain categories of visual information, such as the case of prospagnosia. Patients with visual agnosia generally do not have damage to the dorsal stream of vision, known as the \"where pathway\" of vision because of its role determining object's position in space, allowing individuals with visual agnosia to show relatively normal visually guided behavior.\n\nFor example, patient DF had lesions to the ventral surface that gave her apperceptive agnosia. One of the tasks she was tested on required her to place a card through a thin slot that could be rotated into all orientations. As an apperceptive agnosic, it would be expected that since she cannot recognize the slot, she should not be able to correctly place the card into the slot. Indeed, when she was asked to give the direction of the slot, her responses were no better than chance. Yet, when she was asked to place the card into the slot, her success was almost to the level of the controls. This implies that in the event of a ventral stream deficit, the dorsal stream can help with processing of special information to aid movement regardless of object recognition.\n\nMore specifically, the lateral occipital complex appears to respond to many different types of objects. Prosopagnosia (inability to recognize faces) is due to damage of the fusiform face area (FFA). An area in the fusiform gyrus of the temporal lobe that has been strongly associated with a role in facial recognition. However, this area is not exclusive to faces; recognition of other objects of expertise are also processed in this area. The extrastriate body cortex (EBA) was found to be activated by photographs, silhouettes, or stick drawings of human bodies. The parahippocampal place area (PPA) of the limbic cortex has been found to be activated by the sight of scenes and backgrounds. Cerebral achromatopsia (the inability to discriminate between different hues) is caused by damage to the V8 area of the visual association cortex.\n\nThe left hemisphere seems to play a critical role in recognizing the meaning of common objects.\n\nBroadly, visual agnosia is divided into apperceptive and associative visual agnosia.\n\nApperceptive agnosia is failure of object recognition even when the basic visual functions (acuity, color, motion) and other mental processing, such as language and intelligence, are normal. The brain must correctly integrate features such as edges, light intensity, and color from sensory information to form a complete percept of an object. If a failure occurs during this process, a percept of an object is not fully formed and thus it cannot be recognized. Tasks requiring copying, matching, or drawing simple figures can distinguish the individuals with apperceptive agnosia because they cannot perform such tasks.\n\nAssociative agnosia is an inability to identify objects even with apparent perception and knowledge of them. It involves a higher level of processing than apperceptive agnosia. Individuals with associative agnosia can copy or match simple figures, indicating that they can perceive objects correctly. They also display the knowledge of objects when tested with tactile or verbal information. However, when tested visually, they cannot name or describe common objects. This means that there is an impairment in associating the perception of objects with the stored knowledge of them.\n\nAlthough visual agnosia can be general, there exist many variants that impair recognition of specific types. These variants of visual agnosia include prosopagnosia (inability to recognize faces), pure word blindness (inability to recognize words, often called \"agnosic alexia\" or \"pure alexia\"), agnosias for colors (inability to differentiate colors), agnosias for the environment (inability to recognize landmarks or difficult with spatial layout of an environment, i.e. topographagnosia) and simultanagosia (inability to sort out multiple objects in a visual scene).\n\nThe two main categories of visual agnosia are:\n\n\nPatient C.K. was born in 1961 in England and emigrated to Canada in 1980. In January of 1988, C.K. sustained a head injury from a motor vehicle accident while out for a jog. Following the accident, C.K. experienced many cognitive issues, mood swings, poor memory, and temper outbursts. C.K. also had motor weakness on the left side and a left homonymous hemianopia. He recovered well, retaining normal intelligence and normal visual acuity. He was able to complete a Masters in History, later working as a manager at a large corporation. Although his recovery was successful in other areas of cognition, C.K. still struggles to make sense of the visual world. \n\nMagnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) showed bilateral thinning of C.K.’s Occipital Lobe which resulted in associative visual agnosia. Patients that suffer from visual agnosia are unable to identify visually presented objects. They can identify these objects through other modalities such as touch but if presented visually, they are unable to. Associative Agnosic patients cannot create a detailed representation of the visual world in their brains, they can only perceive elements of whole objects. They also cannot form associations between objects or assign meaning to objects.\n\nC.K. makes many mistakes when trying to identify objects. For example, he called an abacus “skewers on a kebab” and a badminton racquet a “fencer’s mask”. A dart was a “feather duster” and a protractor was mistaken for a “cockpit”. Despite this impairment in visual object recognition, C.K. retained many abilities such as drawing, visual imagery, and internal imagery. As a native of England, he was tasked with drawing England, marking London and where he was born. His accurate drawing of England is just one example of his excellent drawing abilities.\nAs aforementioned, C.K. is able to identify parts of objects but cannot generate a whole representation. It should not be surprising then that his visual imagery for object size, shape, and color is intact. For example, when shown a picture of an animal, he can correctly answer questions such as “are the ears up or down?” and “is the tail long or short?” He can correctly identify colors, for example that the inside of a cantaloupe is orange. Finally, C.K. can generate internal images and perceive these generated objects. For example, Finke, Pinker, and Farah instructed C.K. to imagine a scenario where a ‘B’ is rotated 90 degrees to the left, a triangle is put below, and the line in the middle is removed. C.K. can correctly identify this object as a heart by picturing this transformation in his head. \n\nPatient C.K. provided evidence for a double dissociation between face processing and visual object processing. Patients with prosopagnosia have damage to the Fusiform Face Area (FFA) and are unable to recognize upright faces. C.K. has no difficulty with face processing and matches the performance of controls when tasked with identifying upright famous faces. When shown inverted faces of famous people, C.K. performs significantly worse than controls. This is because processing inverted faces involves a piecemeal strategy. C.K.’s performance is compared to patients with prosopagnosia who are impaired in face processing but perform well identifying inverted faces. This was the first evidence for a double dissociation between face and object processing suggesting a face-specific processing system.\n\n\n"}
