{"id": "3039899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3039899", "title": "Ancestral home (Chinese)", "text": "Ancestral home (Chinese)\n\nIn Chinese culture, hometown or ancestral home () is the place of origin of one's extended family. It may or may not be the place where one is born.\n\nFor instance, physicists Tsung-Dao Lee (Nobelist, 1957) and Charles Kao (nobelist, 2009) were both born in Shanghai, but their hometowns are considered to be Suzhou and Jinshan, respectively.\n\nA subjective concept, a person's ancestral home could be the birthplace of \"any\" of his/her patriline ancestors. Su Shi limited it to five generations, i.e. it refers to the home of one's great-great-grandfather. Even more broadly, an ancestral home can refer to the first locality where a surname came to be established or prominent. Commonly, a person usually defines his/her hometown as what his/her father considers to be his ancestral home. In practice, most people would define their ancestral homes as the birthplace of their patriline ancestors from the early 20th century, around the time when government authorities began to collect such information from individuals.\n\nMoreover, a person's ancestral home can be defined in any level of locality, from province and county down to town and village, depending on how much an individual knows about his/her ancestry.\n\nThe Chinese emphasis on a person's ancestral home is a legacy of its history as an agrarian society, where a family would often be tied to its land for generations. In Chinese culture, the importance of family and regional identity are such that a person's ancestral home or birthplace plays an important social role in personal identity. For instance, at a university, students who hail from the same region will often become members of the regional/hometown society or club for other people with the same background. Discussion of personal or ancestral origins is typical when two people meet for the first time. In recent years, the root-seeking (尋根 \"xúngēn\") movement has led to greater interest in ancestral hometowns, especially among overseas Chinese.\n\nAncestral home is an item to be filled in many documents in the People's Republic of China\n\nNational ID cards issued in Taiwan by the Republic of China government formerly carried an entry for \"home citizenship\" (本籍). Citizens would usually have their ancestral home (defined through the patriline) stated on these documents, despite — as in the case of many Mainlanders born in Taiwan to refugee parents — having never set foot in their ancestral home. This practice was abolished by the government in the mid-1990s amid the Taiwan localization movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "32957728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32957728", "title": "Arquivo Histórico Nacional (Angola)", "text": "Arquivo Histórico Nacional (Angola)\n\nThe Arquivo Histórico Nacional is the national archive of Angola. Overseen by the , it is headquartered in the city of Luanda on Rua Pedro Felix Machado. As of 2016 a new archives building was under construction in Camama. The Arquivo Histórico Nacional originated in the Centro Nacional de Documentação e Investigação Histórica.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8209050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8209050", "title": "Artist development deal", "text": "Artist development deal\n\nAn artist development deal is often the first of a recording artist's contracts with a major record label. In lieu of high royalties or other desirable rights, the label will promise to develop the skills and public profile of the artist. These types of deals are sometimes most helpful to the artist, but the label often takes control of the artist's management and publishing rights. Historically, such deals have been abused by both record labels and managers.\n\n"}
{"id": "24541505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24541505", "title": "Badman (slang)", "text": "Badman (slang)\n\nBadman is a word that was originally used in Kingston, Jamaica in the 1980s ska and Jamaican dancehall cultures. It was used to describe an anti-social youth who was non law-abiding and was feared by others. They were often gang members.\n\nAfter the integration of Jamaican culture with that of the United Kingdom in the 1970s, \"badman\" (along with several other words and phrases) became of common usage in the UK, where it has gained particular popularity in London and the South-East. The words \"badman\" and very rarely \"badgirl\" are also associated with such UK music scenes as grime, dubstep and big beat.\n\nThe words are used in this context to describe a person who is either powerful, someone who commands respect in their neighbourhood, or someone affluent, any of which would make them \"stand out from the crowd\". In the UK grime culture, MCs whose lyrics are particularly meaningful or persuasive are said to be \"a badman\". The term can also be used sarcastically to describe somebody who has an inflated ego or brags about illegal acts.\n\nThe word has parallels with other terms, such as \"gangsta\", \"rude boy\", or \"bad boy\".\n"}
{"id": "1538395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1538395", "title": "Barbados National Trust", "text": "Barbados National Trust\n\nThe Barbados National Trust, founded in 1960, is an organisation which works to preserve and protect the natural and artistic heritage of Barbados and to increase public awareness of the country's historic and architectural treasures. These include a number of different cemeteries, gardens, historic houses, nature reserves, park areas, windmills and coastal areas. \n\nThe Trust also runs museums displaying a collection of artefacts owned and made by Barbadians, as well as an education programme, focusing on the island's history and what it means to the future.\n\nThe Barbados National Trust has built a good working relationship with other National Trusts worldwide, equally with the organisations and their members, in places such as Canada, Scotland, England, Ireland, Wales, and the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "730219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730219", "title": "Bathing", "text": "Bathing\n\nBathing is the washing of the body with a liquid, usually water or an aqueous solution, or the immersion of the body in water. It may be practiced for personal hygiene, religious ritual or therapeutic purposes. By analogy, especially as a recreational activity, the term is also applied to sun bathing and sea bathing.\n\nBathing can take place in any situation where there is water, ranging from warm to cold. It can take place in a bathtub or shower, or it can be in a river, lake, water hole, pool or the sea, or any other water receptacle. The term for the act can vary. For example, a ritual religious bath is sometimes referred to as immersion, the use of water for therapeutic purposes can be called a water treatment or hydrotherapy, and two recreational water activities are known as swimming and paddling.\n\nThroughout history, societies devised systems to enable water to be brought to population centres.\n\nAncient Indians used elaborate practices for personal hygiene with three daily baths and washing. These are recorded in the works called grihya sutras and are in practice today in some communities.\nAncient Greece utilized small bathtubs, wash basins, and foot baths for personal cleanliness. The earliest findings of baths date from the mid-2nd millennium BC in the palace complex at Knossos, Crete, and the luxurious alabaster bathtubs excavated in Akrotiri, Santorini. The Greeks established public baths and showers within gymnasiums for relaxation and personal hygiene. The word \"gymnasium\"(γυμνάσιο) comes from the Greek word \"gymnos\"(γυμνός), meaning naked.\n\nAncient Rome developed a network of aqueducts to supply water to all large towns and population centres and had indoor plumbing, with pipes that terminated in homes and at public wells and fountains. The Roman public baths were called thermae. The thermae were not simply baths, but important public works that provided facilities for many kinds of physical exercise and ablutions, with cold, warm, and hot baths, rooms for instruction and debate, and usually one Greek and one Latin library. They were provided for the public by a benefactor, usually the Emperor. Other empires of the time didn't show such an affinity for public works, but this Roman practice spread their culture to places where there may have been more resistance to foreign mores. Unusually for the time, the thermae were not class-stratified; being available to all for no charge or a small fee. With the fall of the Roman Empire, the aqueduct system fell into disrepair and disuse. But even before that, during the Christianization of the Empire, changing ideas about public morals led the baths into disfavor.\n\nBefore the 7th century, the Japanese likely bathed in the many springs in the open, as there is no evidence of closed rooms. In the 6th to 8th centuries (in the Asuka and Nara periods) the Japanese absorbed the religion of Buddhism from China, which had a strong impact on the culture of the entire country. Buddhist temples traditionally included a bathhouse (\"yuya\") for the monks. Due to the principle of purity espoused by Buddhism these baths were eventually opened to the public. Only the wealthy had private baths.\n\nThe first public bathhouse was mentioned in 1266. In Edo (modern Tokyo), the first \"sentō\" was established in 1591. The early steam baths were called \"iwaburo\" ( \"rock pools\") or \"kamaburo\" ( \"furnace baths\"). These were built into natural caves or stone vaults. In \"iwaburo\" along the coast, the rocks were heated by burning wood, then sea water was poured over the rocks, producing steam. The entrances to these \"bath houses\" were very small, possibly to slow the escape of the heat and steam. There were no windows, so it was very dark inside and the user constantly coughed or cleared their throats in order to signal to new entrants which seats were already occupied. The darkness could be also used to cover sexual contact. Because there was no gender distinction, these baths came into disrepute. They were finally abolished in 1870 on hygienic and moral grounds. Author John Gallagher says bathing \"was segregated in the 1870s as a concession to outraged Western tourists\".\n\nAt the beginning of the Edo period (1603–1868) there were two different types of baths. In Edo, hot-water baths (' ') were common, while in Osaka, steam baths ( ') were common. At that time shared bathrooms for men and women were the rule. These bathhouses were very popular, especially for men. \"Bathing girls\" ( \"\") were employed to scrub the guests' backs and wash their hair, etc. In 1841, the employment of \"yuna\" was generally prohibited, as well as mixed bathing. The segregation of the sexes, however, was often ignored by operators of bathhouses, or areas for men and women were separated only by a symbolic line. Today, \"sento\" baths have separate rooms for men and women.\n\nSpanish chronicles describe the bathing habits of the peoples of Mesoamerica during and after the conquest.\nBernal Díaz del Castillo describes Moctezuma (the Mexica, or Aztec, king at the arrival of Cortés) in his \"Historia verdadera de la conquista de la Nueva España\" as being \"...Very neat and cleanly, bathing every day each afternoon...\".\nBathing was not restricted to the elite, but was practised by all people; the cronist Tomás López Medel wrote after a journey to Central America that \"Bathing and the custom of washing oneself is so quotidian (common) amongst the Indians, both of cold and hot lands, as is eating, and this is done in fountains and rivers and other water to which they have access, without anything other than pure water...\"\n\nThe Mesoamerican bath; known as \"temazcal\" in Spanish, from the Nahuatl word \"temazcalli\", a compound of \"temaz\" (\"steam\") and \"calli\" (\"house\"), consists of a room, often in the form of a small dome, with an exterior firebox known as \"texictle\" (teʃict͜ɬe) that heats a small portion of the room's wall made of volcanic rocks; after this wall has been heated, water is poured on it to produce steam, an action known as \"tlasas\". As the steam accumulates in the upper part of the room a person in charge uses a bough to direct the steam to the bathers who are lying on the ground, with which he later gives them a massage, then the bathers scrub themselves with a small flat river stone and finally the person in charge introduces buckets with water with soap and grass used to rinse. This bath had also ritual importance, and was vinculated to the goddess Toci; it is also therapeutic when medicinal herbs are used in the water for the \"tlasas\". It is still used in Mexico.\n\nChristianity has always placed a strong emphasis on hygiene. Despite the denunciation of the mixed bathing style of Roman pools by early Christian clergy, as well as the pagan custom of women bathing naked in front of men, this did not stop the Church from urging its followers to go to public baths for bathing, which contributed to hygiene and good health according to the Church Father, Clement of Alexandria. The Church also built public bathing facilities that were separate for both sexes near monasteries and pilgrimage sites; also, the popes situated baths within church basilicas and monasteries since the early Middle Ages. Pope Gregory the Great urged his followers on value of bathing as a bodily need.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, bathing commonly took place in public bathhouses. Public baths were also havens for prostitution, which created some opposition to them. Rich people bathed at home, most likely in their bedroom, as 'bath' rooms were not common. Bathing was done in large, wooden tubs with a linen cloth laid in it to protect the bather from splinters. Additionally, during the Renaissance and Protestant Reformation, the quality and condition of the clothing (as opposed to the actual cleanliness of the body itself) were thought to reflect the soul of an individual. Clean clothing also reflected one's social status; clothes made the man or woman.\n\nFurthermore, from the late Middle Ages through to the end of the 18th century, etiquette and medical manuals advised people to only wash the parts of the body that were visible to the public; for example, the ears, hands, feet, and face and neck. This did away with the public baths and left the cleaning of oneself to the privacy of one's home.\n\nThe switch from woolen to linen clothing by the 16th century also accompanied the decline in bathing. Linen clothing is much easier to clean and maintain – and such clothing was becoming commonplace at the time in Western Europe. Clean linen shirts or blouses allowed people who had not bathed to appear clean and well groomed. The possession of a large quantity of clean linen clothing was a sign of social status. Thus, appearance became more important than personal hygiene. Contemporary medical opinion also supported this claim. Physicians of the period believed that odors, or miasma, such as that which would be found in soiled linens, caused disease. A person could therefore change one's shirt every few days, but avoid baths – which might let the \"bad air\" into the body through the pores. Consequently, in an age in which there were very few personal bathtubs, laundry was an important and weekly chore which was commonly undertaken by laundresses of the time.\n\nPublic opinion about bathing began to shift in the middle and late 18th century, when writers argued that frequent bathing might lead to better health. Two English works on the medical uses of water were published in the 18th century that inaugurated the new fashion for therapeutic bathing. One of these was by Sir John Floyer, a physician of Lichfield, who, struck by the remedial use of certain springs by the neighbouring peasantry, investigated the history of cold bathing and published a book on the subject in 1702.\n\nThe other work was a 1797 publication by Dr James Currie of Liverpool on the use of hot and cold water in the treatment of fever and other illness, with a fourth edition published not long before his death in 1805. It was also translated into German by Michaelis (1801) and Hegewisch (1807). It was highly popular and first placed the subject on a scientific basis. Hahn's writings had meanwhile created much enthusiasm among his countrymen, societies having been everywhere formed to promote the medicinal and dietetic use of water; and in 1804 Professor E.F.C. Oertel of Anspach republished them and quickened the popular movement by unqualified commendation of water drinking as a remedy for all diseases.\nA popular revival followed the application of hydrotherapy around 1829, by Vincenz Priessnitz, a peasant farmer in Gräfenberg, then part of the Austrian Empire.\n\nCaptain R. T. Claridge was responsible for introducing and promoting hydropathy in Britain, first in London in 1842, then with lecture tours in Ireland and Scotland in 1843. His 10-week tour in Ireland included Limerick, Cork, Wexford, Dublin and Belfast, over June, July and August 1843, with two subsequent lectures in Glasgow.\n\nLarge public baths such as those found in the ancient world and the Ottoman Empire were revived during the 19th century. The first modern public baths were opened in Liverpool in 1829. The first known warm fresh-water public wash house was opened in May 1842.\n\nThe popularity of wash-houses was spurred by the newspaper interest in Kitty Wilkinson, an Irish immigrant \"wife of a labourer\" who became known as the \"Saint of the Slums\". In 1832, during a cholera epidemic, Wilkinson took the initiative to offer the use of her house and yard to neighbours to wash their clothes, at a charge of a penny per week, and showed them how to use a chloride of lime (bleach) to get them clean. She was supported by the District Provident Society and William Rathbone. In 1842 Wilkinson was appointed baths superintendent.\n\nIn Birmingham, around ten private baths were available in the 1830s. Whilst the dimensions of the baths were small, they provided a range of services. A major proprietor of bath houses in Birmingham was a Mr. Monro who had had premises in Lady Well and Snow Hill. Private baths were advertised as having healing qualities and being able to cure people of diabetes, gout and all skin diseases, amongst others. On 19 November 1844, it was decided that the working class members of society should have the opportunity to access baths, in an attempt to address the health problems of the public. On 22 April and 23 April 1845, two lectures were delivered in the town hall urging the provision of public baths in Birmingham and other towns and cities.\n\nAfter a period of campaigning by many committees, the Public Baths and Wash-houses Act received royal assent on 26 August 1846. The Act empowered local authorities across the country to incur expenditure in constructing public swimming baths out of its own funds.\n\nThe first London public baths was opened at Goulston Square, Whitechapel, in 1847 with the Prince consort laying the foundation stone.\n\nTraditional Turkish baths (a variant of the Roman bath) were introduced to Britain by David Urquhart, diplomat and sometime Member of Parliament for Stafford, who for political and personal reasons wished to popularize Turkish culture. In 1850 he wrote \"The Pillars of Hercules\", a book about his travels in 1848 through Spain and Morocco. He described the system of dry hot-air baths used there and in the Ottoman Empire which had changed little since Roman times. In 1856 Richard Barter read Urquhart's book and worked with him to construct a bath. They opened the first modern hot water bath at St Ann's Hydropathic Establishment near Blarney, County Cork, Ireland.\n\nThe following year, the first public bath of its type to be built in mainland Britain since Roman times was opened in Manchester, and the idea spread rapidly. It reached London in July 1860, when Roger Evans, a member of one of Urquhart's Foreign Affairs Committees, opened a Turkish bath at 5 Bell Street, near Marble Arch. During the following 150 years, over 600 Turkish baths opened in Britain, including those built by municipal authorities as part of swimming pool complexes, taking advantage of the fact that water-heating boilers were already on site.\n\nSimilar baths opened in other parts of the British Empire. Dr. John Le Gay Brereton opened a Turkish bath in Sydney, Australia in 1859, Canada had one by 1869, and the first in New Zealand was opened in 1874. Urquhart's influence was also felt outside the Empire when in 1861, Dr Charles H Shepard opened the first Turkish baths in the United States at 63 Columbia Street, Brooklyn Heights, New York, most probably on 3 October 1863.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, the English urbanised middle classes had formed an ideology of cleanliness that ranked alongside typical Victorian concepts, such as Christianity, respectability and social progress. The cleanliness of the individual became associated with his or her moral and social standing within the community and domestic life became increasingly regulated by concerns regarding the presentation of domestic sobriety and cleanliness.\nThe industry of soapmaking began on a small scale in the 1780s, with the establishment of a soap manufactory at Tipton by James Keir and the marketing of high-quality, transparent soap in 1789 by Andrew Pears of London. It was in the mid-19th century, though, that the large-scale consumption of soap by the middle classes, anxious to prove their social standing, drove forward the mass production and marketing of soap.\nWilliam Gossage produced low-priced, good-quality soap from the 1850s. William Hesketh Lever and his brother, James, bought a small soap works in Warrington in 1886 and founded what is still one of the largest soap businesses, formerly called Lever Brothers and now called Unilever. These soap businesses were among the first to employ large-scale advertising campaigns.\n\nBefore the late 19th century, water to individual places of residence was rare. Many countries in Europe developed a water collection and distribution network. London water supply infrastructure developed through major 19th-century treatment works built in response to cholera threats, to modern large-scale reservoirs. By the end of the century, private baths with running hot water were increasingly common in affluent homes in America and Britain.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, a weekly Saturday night bath had become common custom for most of the population. A half day's work on Saturday for factory workers allowed them some leisure to prepare for the Sunday day of rest. The half day off allowed time for the considerable labor of drawing, carrying, and heating water, filling the bath and then afterward emptying it. To economize, bath water was shared by all family members. Indoor plumbing became more common in the 20th century and commercial advertising campaigns pushing new bath products began to influence public ideas about cleanliness, promoting the idea of a daily shower or bath.\n\nOne purpose of bathing is for personal hygiene. It is a means of achieving cleanliness by washing away dead skin cells, dirt and soil, and a preventative measure to reduce the incidence and spread of disease. It also reduces body odors.\n\nBathing creates a feeling of well-being and the physical appearance of cleanliness.\n\nBathing may also be practised for religious ritual or therapeutic purposes or as a recreational activity. Bathing may be used to cool or to warm the body of an individual.\n\nTherapeutic use of bathing includes hydrotherapy, healing, rehabilitation from injury or addiction, and relaxation.\n\nThe use of a bath in religious ritual or ceremonial rites include immersion during baptism in Christianity and to achieve a state of ritual cleanliness in a \"mikvah\" in Judaism. It is referred to as \"Ghusl\" in Arabic to attain ceremonial purity (\"Taahir\") in Islam. All major religions place an emphasis on ceremonial purity, and bathing is one of the primary means of attaining outward purity. In Hindu households, any acts of defilement are countered by undergoing a bath and Hindus also immerse in Sarovar as part of religious rites.\nIn the Sikh religion, there is a place at Golden Temple where the leprosy of Rajni's husband was cured by immersion into the holy sacred pool, and many pilgrims bathe in the sacred pool believing it will cure their illness as well.\n\nWhere bathing is for personal hygiene, bathing in a bathtub or shower is the most common form of bathing in Western, and many Eastern, countries. Bathrooms usually have a tap, and a shower if it is a modern home, and a huge water heating pot. People take water from the tap or the water-heating pot into a large bucket and use a mug to pour water on themselves. A soap and loofah is used to clean the body after, and then rinsed again using the mug. People most commonly bathe in their home or use a private bath in a public bathhouse. In some societies, bathing can take place in rivers, creeks, lakes or water holes, or any other place where there is an adequate pool of water. The quality of water used for bathing purposes varies considerably. Normally bathing involves use of soap or a soap-like substance, such as shower gel. In southern India people more commonly use aromatic oil and other home-made body scrubs.\n\nBathing occasions can also be occasions of social interactions, such as in public, Turkish, banya, sauna or whirlpool baths.\n\nWhen water is in short supply or a person is not fit to have a standing bath, a wet cloth or sponge can be used, or the person can wash by splashing water over their body. A sponge bath is usually conducted in hospitals, which involves one person washing another with a sponge, while the person being washed remains lying in bed.\n\nThis method involves using a small container to scoop water out of a large container and pour water over the body, in such a way that this water does not go back into the large container.\n\nIn Indonesia and Malaysia, this is a traditional method referred to as \"mandi\".\n\nIn the Indonesian language, \"mandi\" is the verb for this process; \"bak mandi\" is the large container, and \"kamar mandi\" is the place in which this is done. Travel guides often use the word \"mandi\" on its own or in various ways such as for the large container and for the process of bathing.\n\nIn the Philippines, \"timba\" (pail) and \"tabo\" (dipper) are two essentials in every bathroom.\n\nWhen bathing for cleanliness, normally, people bathe completely naked, so as to make cleaning every part of their body possible. This is the case in private baths, whether in one's home or a private bath in a public bathhouse. In public bathing situations, the social norms of the community are followed, and some people wear a swimsuit or underwear. For example, when a shower is provided in a non-sex segregated area of a public swimming pool, users of the shower commonly wear their swimsuit. The customs can vary depending on the age of a person, and whether the bathing is in a sex segregated situation. In some societies, some communal bathing is also done without clothing.\n\nWhen swimming, not wearing clothing is sometimes called skinny dipping.\n\nBabies can be washed in a kitchen sink or a small plastic baby bath, instead of using a standard bath which offers little control of the infant's movements and requires the parent to lean awkwardly or kneel. Bathing infants too often has been linked to the development of asthma or severe eczema according to some researchers, including Michael Welch, chair of the American Academy of Pediatrics' section on allergy and immunology. A safe temperature for the bathwater is generally held to be .\n\nToday, most homes in Japan have a bathroom (\"ofuro\"), which was often not the case about 30 years ago. Bath water in Japan is much hotter than what is usual in Central Europe. The temperature is usually well above 40°C. In medical literature, 47°C is considered bearable. The heat is considered a prerequisite for complete relaxation. The custom is to thoroughly clean oneself with soap and rinse before entering the tub, so as not to contaminate the bath water. Until the 19th century, the Japanese did not use soap, but rubbed the skin with certain herbs, or rice bran, which was also a natural exfoliant.\n\nIn public baths, there is a distinction between those with natural hot springs called, \"onsen\" (hot), and the other, the \"sento\". Since Japan is located in a volcanically active region, there are many hot springs, of which about 2000 are swimming pools. Most \"onsen\" are in the open countryside, but they are also found in cities. In Tokyo, for example, there are about 25 \"onsen\" baths. Locations of known mineral springs spas are on the Western model.\n\nAn \"onsen\", consists mostly of outdoor pools (\"rotenburo\"), which are sometimes at different temperatures. Extremely hot springs, where even experienced or frequent hot-spring bathers can only stay a few minutes, are called \"jigoku\" (hell). Many \"onsen\" also have saunas, spa treatments and therapy centers. The same rules apply in public baths as in private baths, with bathers required to wash and clean themselves before entering the water. In general, the Japanese bathe naked in bathhouses; bathing suits are not permissible.\n\nBathing scenes were already in the Middle Ages a popular subject of painters. Most of the subjects were women shown nude, but the interest was probably less to the bathing itself rather than to provide the context for representing the nude figure. From the Middle Ages, illustrated books of the time contained such bathing scenes. Biblical and mythological themes which featured bathing were depicted by numerous painters. Especially popular themes included Bathsheba in the bath, in which she is observed by King David, and Susanna in the sight of lecherous old men.\n\nIn the High Middle Ages, public baths were a popular subject of painting, with rather clear depictions of sexual advances, which probably were not based on actual observations. During the Renaissance and Baroque periods, the gods and nymphs of Greek mythology were depicted bathing in allegorical paintings by artists such as Titian and François Boucher, both of whom painted the goddess Diana bathing. Artists continued to paint Biblical characters bathing, and also sometimes depicted contemporary women bathing in the river, an example being Rembrandt's \"Woman Bathing\".\n\nIn the 19th century, the use of the bathing scene reached its high point in classicism, realism and impressionism. Oriental themes and harem and turkish baths scenes became popular. These scenes were based on the artists' imagination, because access by men to Islamic women was not generally permitted. In the second half of the century, artists increasingly eschewed the pretexts of mythology and exoticism, and painted contemporary western women bathing. Edgar Degas, for example, painted over 100 paintings with a bathing theme. The subject of Bathers remained popular in avant-garde circles at the outset of the 20th century.\n\nNotable artists who have represented bathing scenes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4001074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4001074", "title": "Bayono-Awbono language", "text": "Bayono-Awbono language\n\nBayono, Awbono and Densar constitute a recently discovered dialect cluster spoken in Indonesian Papua Province south of the Somahai languages. All that is known of them are a few hundred words recorded in first-contact situations. These demonstrate resemblances to the neighboring Ok and Greater Awyu languages, and the pronouns are consistent with Bayono-Awbono belonging to the Trans–New Guinea family:\n\nTimothy Usher classified them within the Greater Awyu (Digul River) family.\n\n"}
{"id": "26477248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26477248", "title": "Behavioral cusp", "text": "Behavioral cusp\n\nA behavioral cusp is any behavior change that brings an organism's behavior into contact with new contingencies that have far-reaching consequences. A behavioral cusp is a special type of behavior change because it provides the learner with opportunities to access new reinforcers, new contingencies, new environments, new related behaviors (generativeness) and competition with archaic or problem behaviors. It affects the people around the learner, and these people agree to the behavior change and support its development after the intervention is removed.\n\nThe concept has far reaching implications for every individual, and for the field of developmental psychology, because it provides a behavioral alternative to the concept of maturation and change due to the simple passage of time, such as developmental milestones. The cusp is a behavior change that presents special features when compared to other behavior changes.\nThe concept was first proposed by Sidney W. Bijou, an American developmental psychologist. The idea of the cusp was to link behavioral principles to rapid spurts in development (see Behavior analysis of child development).\n\nA behavioral cusp as conceptualized by Jesus Rosales-Ruiz & Donald Baer in 1997 is an important behavior change that affects future behavior changes. The behavioral cusp, like the reinforcer, is apprehended by its effects. Whereas a reinforcer acts on a single response or a group of related responses, the effects of a behavioral cusp regulate a large number of responses in a more distant future.\n\nThe concept has been compared to a developmental milestone, however, not all cusps are milestones. For example, learning to play soccer is not a milestone, but it was life-changing for Pelé. As a result of learning to kick grapefruits (the initial important change or cusp), Pelé accessed (1) new environments, (2) new reinforcers, (3) new soccer moves, (4) dropped competing behaviors (smoking), and (5) gained international acclaims for his skill. Soccer is not a developmental milestone because it is not a necessary skill in most environments.\n\nThe following properties are special features of a behavioral change that lead to more change, and an increased likelihood of social adaptation, independence, and cultural fitness.\n\nNew reinforcers are accessible and enrich the perspective of the learner. Additionally these reinforcers may lead to an increase in the variety of behaviors. If the reinforcers are promoting health and social behaviors, they will lead to an improved quality of life.\n\nA child who learns to open a door may access the swing for the first time and learns to use the swing. Here, the new skill (swinging motion is the reinforcer) may lead to more complex and social activities such as (1) turn taking, (2) asking someone to share the swing, (3) taking turns pushing someone, which in turn (4) may provide more social opportunities to speak and (5) interact with the play partners, etc.\n\nA child learns to open a door and walks outside. He finds some ants behind a shrubbery and watches the ants. His parents are looking for him, they get worried and are calling him. The child is unusually mesmerized by columns of ants on the ground and does not hear the calls. His parents find him shortly after, but they are frantic from their 5-minute search and accidentally scare him from going outside. In this non-example, learning to open doors that lead outside resulted in consequences that did not directly benefit the child and maybe decrease important skills related to exploration and search. In this case, no new reinforcers were contacted and learning to open the backyard door (that has a special latch) was effectively a waste of time because the child's parents don't usually approve being alone in the backyard.\n\nNew contingencies are responsible for the selection of novel and more adaptive behaviors while decreasing problematic or archaic behaviors. Contingencies of reinforcement (before > R > Reinforcer) produce and maintain each and every learned behavior. New contingencies establish the control of new stimuli over our behaviors, and therefore make us more sensitive and aware of our surrounding.\n\nNew environments are geographical and/or virtual areas of potential change (receiving environments). New environments regulate, maintain, and set the micro-cultural boundaries for reinforcers (and punishers), and their antecedents. They include tools and stakeholders controlling the pace and content of instruction and, as a result, they regulate boundary of what the learner learns (e.g., school curriculum). New environments must contain some of the stakeholders' preferences and reinforcers to create lasting positive reinforcement practices for the learner.\n\nGenerativeness describes the ability of the receiving environment to regulate novel responses, functions, values or response products derived from the original cusp response. For a behavior, it is the ability to recombine or merge into more complex units, or the ability to contact environments.\n\nA child learns phonetic reading and can recombine the 50 or so English phonemes into 50,000 words by recombining the individual sounds he has learned to read. The generative index for this act of learning the basic English phonemes is approximately 10,000 (where one new behavior results in a potential 10,000 applications).\n\nA child learns sight reading for 50 words. When a new word is presented, the child learns by listening to a teacher and memorizes the words rather than using what he has previously learned, thus becoming able to read only 50 words using this method. Additionally, he is now dependent on someone for learning each new vocabulary word.\n\nBehavior competition is the ability of cusp behaviors to displace previously established behaviors on a continuum of intensity and rate, across repertoires, and environments. Competing archaic behaviors occur on a corresponding continuum of severity.\n\nEffect on others comes from the learner's behavior affecting the stakeholders who control reinforcers and punishers in a specific environment. It is important to identify these stakeholders' motivations and reinforcers in selecting potential cusps. Effect refers to the changes in values and behaviors of the stakeholder resulting from a cusp in the learner. The initial and gradually more complex behaviors that constituted the entry point for an important behavior change that, once initiated, so profoundly alters, displaces, or transforms one's behavioral repertoire that it renders preexisting behavioral repertoires obsolete. A behavioral cusp is an important behavior change that alters the probability of the learner's future repertoires and interactions with stakeholders' repertoires.\n\nSocial validity is an indicator of social acceptability of a behavior and its consequences for the stakeholders representing the communities which the learner is accessing or will access. Some seemingly insignificant changes in a stakeholder may dramatically affect the learner. All stakeholders (e.g., government officials, teachers, parents, and other interventionists) should agree to the goals, methods, and tools for the intervention and the norms from the local community suggest the boundaries of what should be learned.\n\nThe behavioral cusp has implications for the selection and sequencing of skills during the life span. While milestones are mainly concerned with the chronology of behaviors, the concept of behavioral cusp is concerned with the fitness of the behavior within a context or a receiving environment. As Rosales-Ruiz and Baer (1997) stated, \"One child's cusp may be another child's waste of time.\" Thus, there is a great need for empirically-based guidelines in making decisions related to the initial selection of skills.\n\nThe applications of the concepts are related to the prediction, selection, and retention of successful and adaptive behaviors to the treatment of childhood autism, Down syndrome, and other developmental disabilities is humane and based on evidence from the field of behavior analysis. The first applications of the concept derive from a set of guidelines proposed by Bosch and Fuqua in \"The Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis\".\n\nA new technology and methodology, necessary to measure the effects of a small change over time, will reveal a strong dependence on the initial conditions selected by a cusp specialist (butterfly effect).\n\nFuture research will elucidate the nature and parameters of the criteria and the tools used in the selection and sequencing of skills. \n\nAs importantly, the existing parameters (proposed by Rosales-Ruiz, Baer, Bosch, & Fuqua) provides justifications for behavioral interventions.\n\n"}
{"id": "19600444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19600444", "title": "Blue Sky Mine", "text": "Blue Sky Mine\n\n\"Blue Sky Mine\" is a song by Australian rock band Midnight Oil released in 1990 as the first single from their album \"Blue Sky Mining\". It peaked at No. 7 on the Canadian \"RPM\" Top Singles chart, No. 8 on the Australian Singles Chart and Norwegian Singles Chart, No. 25 on the French Singles Chart, No. 66 on the UK Singles Chart, No. 47 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, and No. 1 on both the \"Billboard\" Album Rock and Modern Rock charts. It charted the highest in New Zealand, where it reached No. 2 for two weeks behind \"Don't Make Me Over\" by Sybil.\n\nThe song was inspired by the experiences of workers at the Wittenoom asbestos mines who contracted various asbestos-related diseases. The \"blue\" refers to blue asbestos, and the \"sugar refining company\" refers to the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd (CSR), the owner of the mines.\n\n"}
{"id": "38746191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38746191", "title": "Bote-Darai language", "text": "Bote-Darai language\n\nBote (Bote-Majhi) and Darai are mutually intelligible tribal dialects of Nepal that are close to Danwar Rai but otherwise unclassified. Speakers are rapidly shifting to Nepali.\n"}
{"id": "15534707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15534707", "title": "Byron Reed Collection", "text": "Byron Reed Collection\n\nThe Byron Reed Collection features rare books, manuscripts, autographs and coins that are located at the Durham Museum in Omaha, Nebraska, United States. According to experts, \"Byron Reed was one of the greatest collectors of the 19th century,\" with a reputation as a numismatist that is \"largely unrecognized.\" Reed began collecting in the 1870s, continuing until he died in 1891.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Omaha real estate agent Byron Reed gradually put together a stunning collection of coins, documents, books, maps, and other items of great historical importance. Upon his death in 1891, Reed gave his collection to the city of Omaha and it is now housed at The Durham Museum. Significant portions of Reed's collection are on exhibit; of special interest is the \"Treasures Cabinet,\" containing Reed's specimen of the 1804 Dollar.\n\nA corresponding member of the American Numismatic and Archaeological Society of New York, Byron Reed was a pioneer real estate businessman who was regarded as an \"industrious\" collector. His coin collection is still thought to be one of the most complete in the United States, and includes numerous Jewish and Roman coins, as well as an almost perfect compilation of coinage of the U.S. from colonial times through the 1890s. In 1999 the Reed 1804 Dollar was labeled the \"King of American Coins.\"\n\nReed's personal library includes numerous documents relevant to the founding of Omaha, as well as religious texts from the Middle Ages. His collection is considered to include one of the largest numismatic libraries in the Midwestern United States. According to experts, the library is probably the last one formed in the 19th century to remain intact.\n\nAfter his death, the collection was willed to the City of Omaha and the Omaha Public Library. Today the Byron Reed Collection is in the care of and on display at the Durham Western Heritage Museum in Omaha. According to Larry Wilson, a historian and numismatic researcher for the Independent Coin Grading Service:\nA recent assessment of the Byron Reed Collection valued the collection at $7,894,013. The collection includes 1,163 that are valued at $6,447,000. 693 coins from around the world are worth $95,000. There are 1,400 pieces of exonumia valued at $322,000. The 673 pieces of paper money is worth $54,000, and the 2,850 books and documents in the collection total $975,000.\n\nIn 1996, the Omaha City Council decided to sell portions of the Byron Reed Collection at auction. The sale, held at Christie's in New York City, was held October 8 and October 9, 1996. All of the 562 lots offered were sold, for a total of $6.1 million.\n\nThe Byron Reed Collection at the Durham Western Heritage Museum\n"}
{"id": "38164895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38164895", "title": "Citizen, speak Turkish!", "text": "Citizen, speak Turkish!\n\nThe Citizen, speak Turkish! () campaign was an initiative created by law students but sponsored by the Turkish government which aimed to put pressure on non-Turkish speakers to speak Turkish in public in the 1930s. In some municipalities, fines were given to those speaking in any language other than Turkish. The campaign has been considered by some authors as a significant contribution to Turkey's sociopolitical process of Turkification.\n\nDuring the Ottoman Empire in 1911, the Committee of Union and Progress decided to employ the Turkish language in all the schools of the Empire, with the aim to denationalize all the non-Turkish communities and instil patriotism among Turks. The reformation of the state schooling system and of language by the compulsory use of demotic Turkish aimed for the linguistic homogenization of society. The standardization of the Turkish language aimed to sever the link with the Ottoman language and past in order to create a new sense of Turkish nationhood.\n\nWhen the Turkish Republic was founded, nationalism and secularism were two of the founding principals. Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the leader of the early years of the Republic, aimed to create a nation state () from the Turkish remnants of the Ottoman Empire. Kemalist ideology defines the \"Turkish People\" as \"those who protect and promote the moral, spiritual, cultural and humanistic values of the Turkish Nation.\" Kemalist criteria for national \"identity\" or simply being a Turk also refers to a shared language. In 1931 in a speech in Adana, Atatürk was quoted during a speech as saying: \n\nMany Turkish politicians and intellectuals believed that in order to attain full rights as a Turkish citizen, one must learn and speak Turkish. One such intellect, Hamdullah Suphi Tanrıöver, believed especially that minorities could not be accepted as citizens of Turkey if they did not speak Turkish or accepted Turkish culture. Consequently, non-Turkish languages taught in minority schools were becoming less common, whereas in May 1923, the Turkish Ministry of Education made the teaching of the Turkish language, history, and geography compulsory in all non-Muslim schools. These subjects had to be taught in Turkish by \"pure Turks\" appointed by the Ministry. The \"pure Turk\" teachers received a salary set by the Ministry which was substantially higher than regular teachers, resulting in a heavy financial burden for minority schools.\n\nIn 1935, during a speech at the Republican Party's fourth congress, Prime Minister İsmet İnönü was quoted as saying, \"We will not remain silent. All citizens who live with us must speak Turkish!\"\n\nThe campaign went beyond the measures of mere policy of speaking Turkish, to an outright prevention and prohibition of any other language.\n\nOn January 13, 1928, the student union at the Darülfünun Law School in Istanbul started a campaign with the objective of preventing the use of languages other than Turkish to be used in public. Signs were held by campaign organizers that proclaimed, \"We cannot call Turk to those who do not speak Turkish\". Some campaigners also chanted, \"Speak Turkish or leave the country!\". The campaigners placed posters in the major cities of the country with the slogan \"Citizen, speak Turkish!\" and the message further spread into the mass media, press, and political circles throughout the country. Signs in theaters, restaurants, hotels, and ferries urged everyone to speak Turkish and many people were harassed in public or criminalized for using a language other than Turkish.\n\nCitizens found to be using a language other than Turkish may sometimes have been charged with violating Article 159 (now defunct) of the Turkish penal code for \"insulting Turkishness\" as a legal justification.\n\nIn the 1960s, the movement saw its revival as posters and signs were placed and hung throughout the country.\n\nPrior to the launch of the \"Citizen, speak Turkish!\" campaign, many initiatives were already taken by the government of Turkey to make Turkish the sole language of the public. In 1924 during a session of the Turkish National Assembly, a law was proposed to make Turkish a compulsory language and refusing to speak it resulted in a fine. Meanwhile, as the debates in the National Assembly were ongoing, the municipal government of Bursa took the first initiative and began to impose fines to those who spoke a non-Turkish language in public areas. This was followed by the cities of Balıkesir and Bergama in 1927.\n\nAfter the launch of the \"Citizen, speak Turkish!\" campaign of 1928, arrests were being made all throughout the country with full support of the government who encouraged provincial governors 'to incorporate Turks with foreign dialects into the Turkish community by making Turkish their mother tongue'. In 1933, in the town of Mersin, British citizens, speaking French, were reportedly attacked in public. It was later reported that hundreds were being arrested for speaking languages other than Turkish in public. In a specific case, a M. Chalfoun and a certain Jewish merchant were arrested for speaking Arabic and French to a merchant in town. The accused were released only after the mayor of Mersin pardoned them after visiting them in prison.\n\nNew laws were being promulgated throughout the country. In 1936, the municipal governments of Tekirdağ, Lüleburgaz, and Edirne passed decrees to fine those who spoke non-Turkish languages in public. Soon thereafter, cities and towns such as Diyarbakır, Adana, Ankara, and Kırklareli followed suit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "164660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164660", "title": "Cultural diversity", "text": "Cultural diversity\n\nCultural diversity is the quality of diverse or different cultures, as opposed to monoculture, the global monoculture, or a homogenization of cultures, akin to cultural decay. The phrase cultural diversity can also refer to having different cultures respect each other's differences. The phrase \"cultural diversity\" is also sometimes used to mean the variety of human societies or cultures in a specific region, or in the world as a whole. Globalization is often said to have a negative effect on the world's cultural diversity.\n\nDiversity refers to the attributes that people use to confirm themselves with respect to others, “that person is different from me.” These attributes include demographic factors (such as race, gender, and age) as well as values and cultural norms. The many separate societies that emerged around the globe differs markedly from each other, and many of these differences persist to this day. The more obvious cultural differences that exist between people are language, dress and traditions, there are also significant variations in the way societies organize themselves, such as in their shared conception of morality, religious belief, and in the ways they interact with their environment. Cultural diversity can be seen as analogous to biodiversity.\nBy analogy with biodiversity, which is thought to be essential to the long-term survival of life on earth, it can be argued that cultural diversity may be vital for the long-term survival of humanity; and that the conservation of indigenous cultures may be as important to humankind as the conservation of species and ecosystems is to life in general. The General Conference of UNESCO took this position in 2001, asserting in Article 1 of the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity that \"...cultural diversity is as necessary for humankind as biodiversity is for nature\"\n\nThis position is rejected by some people, on several grounds. Firstly, like most evolutionary accounts of human nature, the importance of cultural diversity for survival may be an un-testable hypothesis, which can neither be proved nor disproved. Secondly, it can be argued that it is unethical deliberately to conserve \"less developed\" societies, because this will deny people within those societies the benefits of technological and medical advances enjoyed by those in the \"developed\" world.\n\nIn the same manner that the promotion of poverty in underdeveloped nations as \"cultural diversity\" is unethical. It is unethical to promote all religious practices simply because they are seen to contribute to cultural diversity. Particular religious practices are recognized by the WHO and UN as unethical, including female genital mutilation, polygamy, child brides, and human sacrifice.\n\nWith the onset of globalization, traditional nation-states have been placed under enormous pressures. Today, with the development of technology, information and capital are transcending geographical boundaries and reshaping the relationships between the marketplace, states and citizens. In particular, the growth of the mass media industry has largely impacted on individuals and societies across the globe. Although beneficial in some ways, this increased accessibility has the capacity to negatively affect a society's individuality. With information being so easily distributed throughout the world, cultural meanings, values and tastes run the risk of becoming homogenized. As a result, the strength of identity of individuals and societies may begin to weaken.\n\nSome individuals, particularly those with strong religious beliefs, maintain that it is in the best interests of individuals and of humanity as a whole that all people adhere to a specific model for society or specific aspects of such a model.\nNowadays, communication between different countries becomes more and more frequent. And more and more students choose to study overseas for experiencing culture diversity. Their goal is to broaden their horizons and develop themselves from learning overseas. For example, according to Fengling, Chen, Du Yanjun, and Yu Ma's paper \"Academic Freedom in the People's Republic of China and the United States Of America.\", they pointed out that Chinese education more focus on \"traditionally, teaching has consisted of spoon feeding, and learning has been largely by rote. China's traditional system of education has sought to make students accept fixed and ossified content.\" And \"In the classroom, Chinese professors are the laws and authorities; Students in China show great respect to their teachers in general.\" On another hand, in United States of America education \"American students treat college professors as equals.\" Also \"American students' are encouraged to debate topics. The free open discussion on various topics is due to the academic freedom which most American colleges and universities enjoy.\" Discussion above gives us an overall idea about the differences between China and the United States on education. But we cannot simply judge which one is better, because each culture has its own advantages and features. Thanks to those difference forms the culture diversity and those make our world more colorful. For students who go abroad for education, if they can combine positive culture elements from two different cultures to their self-development, it would be a competitive advantage in their whole career. Especially, with current process of global economics, people who owned different perspectives on cultures stand at a more competitive position in current world.\n\nCultural diversity is difficult to quantify, but a good indication is thought to be a count of the number of languages spoken in a region or in the world as a whole. By this measure we may be going through a period of precipitous decline in the world's cultural diversity. Research carried out in the 1990s by David Crystal (Honorary Professor of Linguistics at the University of Wales, Bangor) suggested that at that time, on average, one language was falling into disuse every two weeks. He calculated that if that rate of the language death were to continue, then by the year 2100 more than 90% of the languages currently spoken in the world will have gone extinct.\n\nOverpopulation, immigration and imperialism (of both the militaristic and cultural kind) are reasons that have been suggested to explain any such decline. However, it could also be argued that with the advent of globalism, a decline in cultural diversity is inevitable because information sharing often promotes homogeneity.\n\nThe Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity adopted by UNESCO in 2001 is a legal instrument that recognizes cultural diversity as \"common heritage of humanity\" and considers its safeguarding to be a concrete and ethical imperative inseparable from respect for human dignity.\n\nBeyond the Declaration of Principles adopted in 2003 at the Geneva Phase of the World Summit on the information Society (WSIS), the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions, adopted in October 2005, is a legally binding instrument to all States Parties to the Convention that recognizes\n\nIt was adopted in response to \"growing pressure exerted on countries to waive their right to enforce cultural policies and to put all aspects of the cultural sector on the table when negotiating international trade agreements\". To date, 116 member states as well as the European Union have ratified the Convention, except the US, Australia and Israel. States Parties recognize the specificity of cultural goods and services, as well as state sovereignty and public services in this area. Thought for world trade, this soft law instrument (strength in not binding) clearly became a crucial reference to the definition of the European policy choice. In 2009, the European Court of Justice favoured a broad view of culture—beyond cultural values through the protection of film or the objective of promoting linguistic diversity yet previously recognized. On top of it, under this Convention, the EU and China have committed to fostering more balanced cultural exchanges, strengthening international cooperation and solidarity with business and trade opportunities in cultural and creative industries. The most motivating factor behind Beijing's willingness to work in partnership at business level might certainly be the access to creative talents and skills from foreign markets.\n\nThere is also the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage ratified on June 20, 2007 by 78 states which said: \n\nCultural diversity was also promoted by the Montreal Declaration of 2007, and by the European Union. The idea of a global multicultural heritage covers several ideas, which are not exclusive (see multiculturalism). In addition to language, diversity can also include religious or traditional practice.\n\nOn a local scale, Agenda 21 for culture, the first document of world scope that establishes the foundations for a commitment by cities and local governments to cultural development, supports local authorities committed to cultural diversity.\n\nThe defense of cultural diversity can take several meanings:\n\nIn a specific occasion of social life, or custom, cultural uniformity can be observed and displayed in behaviors of a community.\n\nCultural diversity is presented as the antithesis of cultural uniformity.\n\nSome (including UNESCO) fear this hypothesis of a trend towards cultural uniformity. To support this argument they emphasize different aspects:\n\nThere are several international organizations that work towards protecting threatened societies and cultures, including Survival International and UNESCO. The UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, adopted by 185 Member States in 2001, represents the first international standard-setting instrument aimed at preserving and promoting cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue.\n\nIndeed, the notion of \"cultural diversity\" has been echoed by more neutral organizations, particularly within the UNESCO. Beyond the Declaration of Principles adopted in 2003 at the Geneva Phase of the World Summit on the information Society (WSIS), the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions was adopted on 20 October 2005, but neither ratified by the US, Australia nor by Israel. It is instead a clear recognition of the specificity of cultural goods and services, as well as state sovereignty and public services in this area. Thought for world trade, this soft law instrument (strength in not binding) clearly became a crucial reference to the definition of the European policy choice. In 2009, the European Court of Justice favoured a broad view of culture—beyond cultural values—through the protection of film or the objective of promoting linguistic diversity yet previously recognized. On top of it, under this Convention, the EU and China have committed to fostering more balanced cultural exchanges, strengthening international cooperation and solidarity with business and trade opportunities in cultural and creative industries.\n\nThe European Commission-funded \"Network of Excellence on \"Sustainable Development in a Diverse World\"\" (known as \"SUS.DIV\") builds upon the UNESCO Declaration to investigate the relationship between cultural diversity and sustainable development.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53997165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53997165", "title": "Death of Tim Piazza", "text": "Death of Tim Piazza\n\nTimothy John Piazza (September 25, 1997 February 4, 2017) died as the result of a hazing two days earlier at the Beta Theta Pi fraternity at Pennsylvania State University at University Park, Pennsylvania. The incident led to closure of the fraternity's chapter at the university and, , at least 26 members of the fraternity face charges, including involuntary manslaughter.\n\nPiazza was a 19-year-old sophomore engineering student at Pennsylvania State University. He was a pledge of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity at the university. On the night of February 2, 2017, while undergoing hazing activities for the fraternity, Piazza, on an essentially empty stomach, drank large amounts of alcohol in a short time as part of an obstacle course called \"The Gauntlet\", which required each pledge to drink from a bottle of vodka, drink a beer, and finally drink from a bag of wine. It later was revealed that Piazza took prescription anti-depressants, which contributed to his inebriation. The fraternity was supposed to be alcohol-free after a suspension in 2009.\n\nIn this state of intoxication, he fell on the basement stairs of the house and was knocked unconscious. He was carried to a couch, where surveillance cameras captured the formation of a large and obvious bruise on his left abdomen. One fraternity member tried to convince the others that Piazza needed immediate medical help, but was ignored.\n\nSome time later, Piazza regained consciousness and rolled off the couch. Three brothers picked him up and \"slammed\" him back onto the couch. Security footage shows brothers slapping Piazza in the face, punching him in the stomach, and pouring beer on him, but he remained unconscious and unresponsive. He rolled off the couch again and curled his body, clutching his abdomen.\n\nIn the early morning of February 3, 2017, Piazza tried to get up, but once he reached a standing position, fell backwards. He continued to stand up only to repeatedly fall back down. Once he was finally able to maintain balance, he staggered toward the lobby area of the house, but fell again head first into an iron railing and landed on a stone floor, likely incurring serious head trauma. He got up and tried to reach the front door but fell head first into it, knocking himself unconscious again. He later tried once more to descend the basement stairs, but fell down again, and remained at the base of the stairs until several of the fraternity brothers discovered him several hours later behind the bar in the basement, cold and breathing rapidly.\n\nIt was at this point that he was carried upstairs. After 40 minutes of debating on what the next step should be, the conclusion was made that Piazza's injuries were indeed serious, and that he would require medical attention. Before emergency assistance arrived, the brothers wiped blood from his face and attempted to dress him, but his body was too rigid to successfully put clothes on. Roughly twelve hours after his initial fall, emergency services were summoned but not informed that the fall had occurred the night before. Piazza was brought to Mount Nittany Medical Center, but was quickly transported to Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center because of the severity of his injuries.\n\nUpon arrival, Piazza was rushed into surgery, where he was discovered to have a ruptured spleen and class IV hemorrhagic shock. His brain had swollen to the point that roughly half of his skull had to be removed to relieve the pressure. The surgeons attempting to save his life deemed the injuries to likely be nonrecoverable, and Piazza was pronounced dead in the early morning of February 4, 2017. He is estimated to have had a blood alcohol content (BAC) of nearly .40 on the night of the hazing incident.\n\nThe Piazza case resulted in one of the largest hazing prosecutions in US history. On May 5, 2017, following a grand jury investigation, eighteen members of the fraternity were charged in connection with Piazza's death: eight were charged with involuntary manslaughter and the rest with other offenses, including hazing.\n\nIn addition to the fraternity brothers, the Beta Theta Pi fraternity itself was also charged. Its Penn State fraternity branch was closed after its president ordered it banned from campus indefinitely. , the fraternity and its eighteen members faced a combined total of more than 850 criminal charges.\n\nProsecutors have filed the following charges in relation to this crime and its cover-up:\n\n\nTampering with evidence and endangerment charges have also been dismissed against three other students, Joseph Ems, Ryan McCann, and Lucas Rockwell.\n\nOn November 14, 2017, ten more members were charged in connection with Piazza's death. The new charges were filed after the Centre County District Attorney announced that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had recovered video showing that Piazza had been given at least 18 drinks in an 82-minute span, and that the video had been intentionally deleted. The additional defendants are:\n\n\nEms (age 19) now has additional charges against him—hazing, furnishing alcohol to a minor, and unlawful acts relative to liquor. Braxton Becker (age 20), who had the charge of tampering with evidence dropped against him, was charged with it again after new footage discovered he deleted the footage that lead to these new charges. Becker was also charged with obstructing administration of law and hindering apprehension. , at least 26 members face charges.\n\nOn August 11, 2017, on the fifth day of the preliminary hearing, it was announced by lead investigators that basement footage from the bid acceptance on February 2, 2017, had in fact been deleted by a defendant already charged in the case. Lead prosecutor Stacy Parks Miller noted that additional charges would be filed as a result of this finding.\n\nThat same day, defense attorneys for a number of the defendants started to put blame on Tim Bream, the Penn State Nittany Lions football head athletic trainer and Beta Theta Pi live-in advisor. He was present during the night of Tim Piazza's bid acceptance, although he has never been charged in the case. After unsuccessful attempts by attorneys to have Bream subpoenaed, the judge in the case ordered that Bream have his own hearing on possible contempt of court and avoiding his subpoena.\n\nOne of the fraternity brothers charged in the death of Piazza pleaded guilty on June 13, 2018, to nine charges, making him the first in the case to enter a guilty plea. Ryan Burke, age 21, pleaded guilty to four counts of hazing and five counts relating to unlawful acts involving liquor in the deadly injuries Piazza sustained following a night of heavy drinking and hazing. Burke was accused of giving Piazza a bottle of vodka at the Beta Theta Pi party. Burke admitted his role in the hazing of Piazza, which included being present for and actively encouraging a gauntlet of drinking games and an obstacle course involving Piazza and other pledges.\n\nOn July 31, 2018, Burke was sentenced to three months of house arrest for his role in the hazing death of Piazza. He pleaded guilty to nine misdemeanor charges, including four counts of hazing and five counts involving unlawful acts related to alcoholic beverages. In addition to the house arrest, Burke was sentenced to 27 months of probation and was ordered to pay fines, costs, and restitution.\n\nOn March 27, 2018, \"The Timothy J. Piazza Anti-Hazing Law\" was unanimously approved by the Pennsylvania State Senate Judiciary Committee. Pennsylvania Senate Majority Leader Jake Corman (Republican, Benner Township) and Piazza's parents, Jim and Evelyn Piazza, introduced the bill on March 23, 2018, at the courthouse in Bellefonte.\n\nThe bill would create tiers for hazing. Hazing resulting in serious bodily injury or death would be a third-degree felony, which could include fines of up to $15,000 and imprisonment up to seven years. Hazing resulting in bodily injury would be a third-degree misdemeanor, which could include fines of up to $2,500 and imprisonment up to one year. Other hazing would be a summary offense. The bill would also establish \"organizational\" and \"institutional\" hazing categories.\n\n\"The bill has been carefully crafted because we want this to be a model for changing anti-hazing laws nationwide,\" Corman said. \"My intent with this legislation is clear to prevent death or serious injury due to hazing so that families, such as Tim's, never experience tragedies like this ever again.\"\n\nThe anti-hazing legislation was subsequently submitted for consideration in the full state Senate.\n\nOn April 18, 2018, the Pennsylvania State Senate unanimously passed the bill, which would make hazing in fraternities a third-degree felony in cases of serious injury or death, and could allow universities to seize offending Greek organizations' houses.\n\nThe law is sponsored by Republican Senate Majority Leader and 34th Senatorial District Rep. Jake Corman, who worked with Tim Piazza's family to create the bill. It defines hazing as coercing an individual to participate in any illegal activity in order to join a social group, including the use of drugs and alcohol to inflict physical or emotional harm or the use of other forces such as \"whipping, beating ... or extreme embarrassment\".\n\nLawmakers named the anti-hazing legislation after Timothy Piazza.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41363555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41363555", "title": "Elizabeth Burchenal", "text": "Elizabeth Burchenal\n\nFlora Elizabeth Burchenal (October 18, 1875 – November 21, 1959) was an American folk dance educator. She was a teacher of dance in the New York state public school system as well as an inspector of athletics for the New York Department of Education. Burchenal influenced the cultural conduct of recreational life in the United States, Canada and Europe.\n\nBurchenal was born on October 18, 1875, in Richmond, Indiana to Charles Henry Burchenal and his second wife, Mary Elizabeth Day. Her father was a Quaker, and a prominent attorney born in Maryland. His first wife, Ellen, who was born in Ireland, died in 1864, around age 30.\n\nFlora was her given name and later she took on the name Elizabeth (her middle name). Burchenal pronounced her family name \"Burchenélle\" as was the tradition. \"Burchenal\" shows up as being anglicized to \"Brockend\" in the 1880 United States Census. Burchenal was the second oldest child in the family of four girls and one boy. Her childhood folk dance career came from a \"musically gifted family circle passing many an hour dancing and singing songs of the old country.\" She was influenced early in her life towards folk dance by her musician mother who took her on travels to remote mountain cabins by horseback, where she picked up folk dance techniques of the remote mountain village people. Her father was especially interested in folklore.\n\nBurchenal attended Earlham College and graduated in 1896 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in English. She then went to Boston University Sargent College, school of physical training. She graduated from Sargent College in 1898. Then after graduation she directed in the department of orthopedics the Medical Gymnasium, which later became Boston Children's Hospital Medical Center. She directed physical education programs from 1898 to 1902 in Boston as well as Chicago.\n\nBurchenal became interested in using dance in physical education and was influenced by the dance educator Melvin Gilbert. She carried his philosophy of dance education to Columbia University. She thought that Gilbert's dance techniques should be taught at the University in their physical training classes.\n\nBurchenal became a teacher at Teachers College, Columbia University from 1902 to 1905. Here she began her researching of folk dancing not only in the United States, but also the dancing techniques of Canadian and European folk dancers. Beginning in 1904 she traveled around the world gathering folk dance techniques of various countries. \n\nBurchenal was next persuaded by the director of New York physical education, Luther Gulick, to become a teacher of dance in the state public school system. In this role she excelled and gained higher levels of authority. She became the executive secretary of the Girl's Branch of the New York Public Schools Athletic League from 1905 to 1916. There she taught teachers folk dancing besides teaching her normal athletics. She then obtain an additional job as the inspector of athletics for the New York Department of Education from 1909 to 1916. She influenced the nation into introducing folk dancing into the public schools' physical education programs throughout the United States. In addition she organized large gatherings for folk dance festivals, one in particular being a celebration at a New York borough park which involved 10,000 schoolgirls.\n\nIn 1913, Lady Aberdeen was so impressed by seeing a group of 2000 Burchenal trained girls folk dancing in a Manhattan public school that she persuaded Burchenal to teach a collection of teachers in Ireland about folk dancing. Before the year was out, Irish national folk dances were a part of the standard physical educational school classes.\n\nBurchenal did traveling around the United States, Europe, and Canada to not only train teachers the techniques of folk dancing, but also took this traveling opportunity to learn more dances. Often she would take her younger sister who played the piano for the dancing. She influenced the social and cultural conduct of recreational life not only in the United States, but also in Canada and Europe. Burchenal described folk dancing as one of the few times that people of different nationalities and cultures can get together in a common event.\n\nThe passenger list of the ship Minnetonka shows Burchenal traveling from London and arriving in New York City November 12, 1928. At that time she listed her address as 2700 Broadway in New York City. She was traveling with her older sister Ruth.\n\nIn 1929 she founded the National Committee of Folk Arts. The American Folk Dance Society, that she had previously founded, became a part of this larger organization. Burchenal directed the Folk Arts Center in New York City, which had a museum and a library on national dance information. At various international folk dance festivals Burchenal represented the United States. \nOberlaender Trust of the Carl Schurs Memorial Foundation granted her a research fellowship for 1933 and 1934 to study folk dance techniques in Germany. She was chairperson on several dance related national and international committees and organizations.The 1940 U.S. Census shows her occupation as a writer and living in New York City. Burchenal's New York death record shows she died November 21, 1959.\n\nBurchenal received many honors and awards. Some of the notable ones are:\n\n\nBurchenal became known as America's leading authority on folk dancing. She, along with her older sister Ruth, in 1916 were the organizers of the American Folk Dance Society. She also founded the Archive of American Folk Dance.\n\nBurchenal wrote over fifteen music and dance related books. These books became reference sources in the field of folk dancing for decades. Below are some of her works:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8085063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8085063", "title": "Etiquette in Africa", "text": "Etiquette in Africa\n\nAs expectations regarding good manners differ from person to person and vary according to each situation, no treatise on the rules of etiquette nor any list of faux pas can ever be complete. As the perception of behaviors and actions vary, intercultural competence is essential. However, a lack of knowledge about customs and expectations within African cultures can make even the best intentioned person seem rude, selfish, or worse.\n\nAlthough Africa represents an enormous expanse of geography with an incalculable amount of cultures and customs, noting the following points of etiquette can be useful when dealing with people around the world who have been raised according to different African traditions.\n\nA number of countries in Africa have many traditions based in Islam and share values with other parts of the Muslim world. As such, guidelines regarding etiquette in the Middle East are often applicable to these places. This holds especially true in Muslim majority countries which include many of the West African nations such as Senegal, Chad and Mali. Even though most people would consider themselves as Muslim, many adherents in these areas mix it with local animism. Many, whatever their religious adherence, to some extent believe in supernatural forces and that certain people, primarily doctors, herbalists, diviners, or marabouts (religious figures) have the power to utilise these forces. It is common to see people wearing amulets (called “gris-gris”) around their waist, neck, arms, or legs. People consult with diviners or marabouts to protect themselves against evil spirits, to improve their financial status or bring them love, to cure chronic illnesses, to settle disputes, or to place a curse on another person.\n\nIn Southern Africa, it is considered polite to receive a gift with the right hand. In interactions between social classes (e.g. between a young person and an older man) the younger person should not meet the eye of the older (this politeness is perceived as evasiveness by western cultures). It is considered impolite to disappoint an outsider, so queries such as \"how far is it,\" can be met with positive sounding answers like \"it is really close\" when the destination is very far away. It is polite to pretend agreement with another's point of view, even if there is no agreement. Holding out both hands cupped together is the proper way to respectfully request or beg for a gift.\n\n"}
{"id": "38215082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38215082", "title": "Faisalabad Arts Council", "text": "Faisalabad Arts Council\n\nFaisalabad Arts Council (FAC) is an arts center in Faisalabad, Pakistan. It was established in 1982 by the Government of Punjab, now working under the 'Punjab Arts Council'. It was designed by Nayyar Ali Dada and its current building was completed in 2006. Its chairman is the Commissioner of Faisalabad Division. Tariq Javaid is the resident director of arts council.\n\n"}
{"id": "43824631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43824631", "title": "Family folklore", "text": "Family folklore\n\nFamily folklore is the branch of folkloristics concerned with the study and use of folklore and traditional culture transmitted within a family group. This includes items of material culture, crafts produced by family members or memorabilia saved as reminders or remainders of significant family events. It also includes family photos and photo albums in paper and electronic format, along with bundles of other pages held for posterity: certificates, letters, journals, notes and shopping lists. Family stories and sayings, originally recounting actual events, are told and retold until the historical facts give way to a distilled expression of common identity. Family customs are performed, modified, forgotten, created or resurrected with alarming frequency; each time with the goal of defining and solidifying the perception of this family as unique, distinct and different from other families.\n\nFamily folklore has long been included in the documentation of the folklore of regional, ethnic, religious or occupational groups. It is only since the 1970s that this lore has also been investigated as a defining element of the family group itself. Heralded by a call from Mody Boatright to document the \"family saga\" in 1958, folklorists responded with published accounts of stories and traditions passed down in their own families. L. Karen Baldwin’s unpublished dissertation (1975) laid further theoretical groundwork for family folklore \"… not only is the family a folk group, it is the first folk group anyone belongs to.\"\n\nThe field has since blossomed, broadening to include an ever expanding understanding of family. The conventional extended family, consisting of a heterosexual married couple with children and grandparents now incorporates gay partners, unmarried committed relationships and children adopted or born through non-traditional methods and procedures. The family traditions themselves are transformed to meet the needs and expectations of these new members and new relationships. \n\nThe study of family folklore is distinct from family genealogy or family history. Instead of focusing on historical dates, locations and verifiable events, its unique stories, customs and handicrafts identify the family as a distinct social group. At the same time, the family lore passed along has been molded and transformed to relay a sense of family identity and set of values both within and without the family group. The family lore defines the family story. \nFor an individual family, folklore is its creative expression of a common past. As raw experiences are transformed into family stories, expression, and photos, they are codified in forms which can easily be recalled, retold, and enjoyed. Their drama and beauty are heightened, and the family’s past becomes accessible as it is reshaped according to its needs and desires. … Its stories, photographs, and traditions are personalized and often creative distillations of experience, worked and reworked over time. \n\nA new baby is born or a child is adopted into an established family group, which contains a microcosm of social alignments found in many larger groups: the vertical relationship between grandparents and grandchildren, the horizontal relationship between siblings and cousins of a generation or age group, clusters of girls or boys and skill-based family alliances. The child grows up in this family, sees and learns the family lore as it is performed throughout the seasons and the life cycle. Not only is the family the first folk group of the child, it is \"the group in which important primary folkloric socialization takes place and individual aesthetic preference patterns for folkloric exchange are set.\"\n\nThe dynamics of family folklore remain unsettled not only through the addition of newborns and adoptions, but more particularly by the regular incorporation of new adult family members through each marriage or committed relationship. In the formation of each new family node, a unique subset and combination of the customs and traditions of both families is incorporated into a new story, both modifying and enriching the current family lore. \n\nAs part of the ongoing national discussion of \"family\" and what it means, family folklore redefines itself as well. Along with the classic family \"father-mother-child(ren)\", it expands to include single-parent families, blended families, communes, gay and lesbian families. The indicator for family now includes any group which self-identifies as a family based on intimacy, shared space and shared history. Any collection of adults and children in a committed relationship which sees itself as \"us\", unique and separate from other families, will develop and transmit stories and customs which are unique. Non-traditional families frequently strive to re-establish and re-enact traditional family customs and lore. This becomes a demonstration both to themselves and to outsiders that they are indeed a family of \"tradition\".\n\nThe transmission of individual stories and customs within a family depends for the most part upon the personality, character, and lifestyle of individual family members. It is not normally passed along as part of a defined family role. As a family reshapes itself around each birth, death, marriage and other life events, individual members elect to pick up items of family lore to own and perform. This might be learning a skill, telling a story (or story cycle) or baking a traditional pie for the Thanksgiving table. The transmission of individual items can picked up by several different family members, for example when several grown siblings use a family recipe or tradition in their own households. This type of transmission through multiple individuals was first described in an article by Dégh and Vázsonyi as \"multi-conduit transmission\". By choosing to own a piece of the family lore, a family member signifies that this tradition embodies beliefs and values to which he adheres. By successfully transmitting it further within the family, these beliefs and values come to define the family. \n\nThere are multiple spheres within the family and household which are \"traditionally\" defined as in the purview of one gender or the other, making an intersection with gender studies manifest. The transmission of the folklore in these areas will run through either the male or the female lines. An obvious area of gender-related transmission is seen in the kitchen, where food preparation and mealtime customs and forms are generally performed by the women. They are then transmitted from mother to daughter in the course of everyday meal preparation. A variant of this is seen when a man in the family has taken over the preparation of a special meal or special recipe. One common example of this practice is described by Thomas Adler in the article \"Making Pancakes on Sunday: The Male Cook in Family Tradition\". Many families have some variation of this tradition: the BBQ ribs, grilled hamburgers, or deep-fat fried turkey prepared as a single specialty by the non-cook in the family.\n\nA different gender-related variation in folklore transmission is seen in storytelling. The same story will be shaped and told differently by a man and a woman, even though they were both present at the original event. For an event occurring during the apple harvest, a woman’s narration might include details of the apple butter recipe they were cooking up at the time. In contrast, the man's narration gives only enough detail to \"make a point worth telling\". This gender-based variance has been studied by both Baldwin and Margaret Yocum within individual family groups. They found \"… women's telling to be more collaborative, interruptible, and filled with information and genealogy; men's telling, by contrast, is often uninterrupted and more competitive.\"\n\nWithin families, there is also a notable tendency toward traditional deference where one family member becomes the designated performer for a specific custom or tradition, even though it is known to everyone within the family group. So it happens that when the \"last basketmaker\" dies, another member will step up to become \"the last basketmaker\". No one else performs this tradition as long as the designated tradition bearer is available, acknowledging this individual as the (current) keeper of this tradition. Only when this person is no longer available will the tradition be picked up by someone else to carry forward. \"Traditional deference\" can be found in many folk groups, but is particularly evident within the family group.\n\nIf the family lore which is picked up and transmitted represents the chosen familial beliefs and values, then family stories, documents and photographs which do not support and enhance these values become problematic. For the most part news clipping on arrests, photographs of the uncle who deserted the family, stories of a sister who cheated, or dishonorable discharge papers will not be saved. That is not the family story this family wants to preserve. \n\nFamily traditions are also lost or modified in response to difficult events within the family. This is obvious when one of the tradition bearers has died. If no one else steps up to own that tradition, a hole is left in the celebration and this tradition is lost. In a divorce there is also frequently the loss of a parent no longer available to play his or her role in the established traditions. In response to this event, one family decided to change the traditions. The customary tall Christmas tree decorated by the (missing) tall father was traded in for a short tree which the children could decorate. Ornaments were discarded and new ones purchased. The toy train was no longer set up. These became the new traditions for the Christmas celebration, modified to support and tell the new family story. \n\nAnother reason family folklore might be suppressed or lost is when the references are too painful at the present time or to the present generation. When Catherine Noren found photo albums and other old family portraits in her grandmother’s attic, she unwittingly unearthed an entire family history of a prosperous German-Jewish family before the Holocaust. It became her task, one generation removed, to explore and record the family history in a book containing photos, diaries and memories of her family history. It is only because these albums and portraits had not been discarded along with the narrative that Noren came to know her family story.\n\nIt is only since the 1970s that family folklore has been investigated as a defining element of the family group itself. As part of this investigation, the Smithsonian Folklife Festival in Washington, D.C. set up a tent for several years to collect the family lore of visitors to the Festival. The goal was to establish an archive of family folklore as part of the Smithsonian collections. Using the taped interviews collected, representative pieces have been published in the book \"A Celebration of American Family Folklore: Tales and Traditions from the Smithsonian Collection\". Despite its lack of performance data, this collection provides a solid overview of the wide range of family folklore forms. \n\nA family story initially recounts an actual historical event concerning named family members. Seasoned with time and re-telling, the story gets revised and honed to express specific values and character traits valued in the family. Instead of historical accuracies, the narration becomes a medium to re-state and re-enforce shared values of the family group. These stories generally take the form of an anecdote and follow the pattern of many common traditional tales. A favorite family story involves how the parents met, or how they decided on the one true partner among several. In one family, if the story is to be believed, the prospective bride had to untie all the knots in the string to demonstrate her care and diligence. Another family tells how the young couple got stuck at the top of a Ferris wheel when he proposed, and she had to either say yes or jump. Given time and repetition, the anecdotes serve to shape the family story as a whole, populating it with real individuals and historical events made personal. In their transmission, these stories serve to codify the norms of behavior within the family.\n\nThe setting for telling family stories becomes part of the tradition. It can include the family occasions where stories are told, the location and prompt for the storytelling, the family members who initiate the session as well as the designated raconteurs and custodians of the stories. Each of these elements needs to be documented along with the stories themselves as an integral part of the storytelling tradition within this family. In one family following the holiday meal, the men would retire to the study and the women would move into the kitchen. At some point in the cleanup, usually after the best dishes had been washed and put away, the mother would bring out a bottle of schnapps to help complete the work. This became the trigger for family stories and jokes, the laughter from the kitchen frequently bringing the men to join in the storytelling.\n\nAnother type of verbal lore common within family groups is the unique family expression or saying. A saying can be created at any time; it starts as a one-time utterance of a family member to capture a single moment. Through repetition, this then becomes a shorthand reference to both the original and the current situation. In one family, the saying \"… good worker, very strong\" signifies that the speaker wants to come along, and would in fact be a value-add to the planned undertaking. This expression originally referenced a first move of the family, a move that current family members took no part in. Even so, the saying has become code words for all family members, used to communicate encrypted commentary on the present as well as re-enforce and strengthen the family’s shared experience and history.\n\nPapers stacked, bundled or boxed: news clippings, photographs, letters, scrawled notes, journals, receipts. These pages of family artifacts take many forms, and have become a significant part of family archival materials. Frequently jumbled together in cardboard boxes, they commonly pose a problem as to their value-add to the family story. The boxes are passed along until they are either thrown out in a move, destroyed in a fire, or find an owner within the family, someone with the interest and time to house and evaluate them. \n\nThe largest collection of papers is frequently the photographs, either kept in a drawer or labeled and organized into albums. Singly each photo documents only a single moment; taken together they comprise an important visual history of the family. Either way, they serve as triggers for more extensive memories, stories and events in the life of this family. They are brought out at gatherings and used to commemorate lifetime events such as a wedding or funeral. \n\nNoteworthy is the consistency in which American families of all ethnic backgrounds tend to have photographs of the same milestones. Naked babies on carpets or in the wading pool, the first day of school, the birthday cake surrounded by family and guests, generational portraits gathered around the new baby can be found in many family albums. This pictorial repetition by American families of all backgrounds and traditions documents the universality of family photography as an important custom. \n\nAs with storytelling, the occasion for photo-taking becomes a family tradition in and of itself. Year after year, the same pictures are snapped; documenting a family which is growing and changing, adding and subtracting members, detailing a new location. The camera can be as much a part of the celebration as the birthday cake or the menorah. \n\nThe ubiquity of cameras and on-line photos since the rise of cellphone cameras and personal websites is actively changing the tradition of family photos and photo albums. The availability of video recordings and teleconferencing allows for a daily log of family growth and minutiae to be saved and transmitted to family near and far, in real time. Grandparents can get a daily or weekly update on children's growth or milestone events. Family members can video-conference with each other, making geographic distance much less significant in family relations. A new family custom, using the technology of today, is to put together a slideshow or video documenting the story leading up to the current celebration. At this time a folklorist can only speculate on evolving customs of family photography. \n\nSome families have also amassed over decades a collection of letters and other papers written by or about family members. One family, in sorting through boxes of papers, discovered all diplomas for family members from 2nd grade Sunday School up through doctoral degrees. Other family documents include the family Bible, military enlistment or discharge papers and Certificates of Baptism. While certificates authenticate the dates and events in the family history, letters and journals are particularly revealing as to the character and thoughts of individual family members. \n\nSimilar to photographs, letters and journal entries document a single day in the life of a family member. Once these papers have been saved, it falls to members of the following generations to evaluate them. Are they to be preserved as part of the family story or discarded as inconsequential or even damaging to the family? For the most part unfavorable documents are discarded; that is not the family story this family wants to save.\n\nThe introduction of emails, IMs and other electronic messaging means that paper documents of family history are no longer regularly generated. Seldom is electronic communication printed out for the family files. The 19th and 20th centuries, providing access both to widespread literacy and to resources to create and preserve paper documents might mean that these forms of family history and lore are themselves becoming history.\n\nEach family has its own traditions, played out year after year, event after event. These traditions are frequently so engrained that the recognition of them as unique to this family only occurs when compared to other families. This is also an area of family folklore that is most exposed to change or modification. With each additional marriage or committed relationship, a new member from a different family gets added, an individual who does not recognize the family customs as \"traditional\". These new members bring their own traditions which need to be reconciled, perhaps added or even substituted into the current performance. Not only through marriage, but births and deaths also add a fluid dynamic to the family traditions. When the first grandchild is born, everyone moves into a new role, Mom becomes Grandmom, Brother becomes Uncle, and the family Benjamin loses his position to the new baby. These factors lead to a dynamic development of new and renewed family traditions. \n\nOne major and understudied area of family traditions is found in foodways, which includes everything involved in the procurement, preparation, serving and eating of daily meals at home. Most of us go home each evening for dinner, wake up for breakfast and pack up a lunch or snack pack to take with us for the day. All the assumptions about how this occurs, who does what when arise only when the established process (i.e. family custom) hits a snag: we've run out of milk or someone ate the last of the cookies. Maybe Dad is off on a trip and can't make the Sunday morning pancakes. Each of these food customs is understood and accepted by the group as a whole, and followed as a matter of course with little or no discussion. \n\nIt is also customary that family mealtimes differ: breakfast food differs from supper and snacks, weekends frequently vary from the weekday diet. In one busy family a scoop of ice cream on the breakfast cereal turned the meal into an easy, fun supper. There might also be a traditional Sunday Dinner to be prepared and staged weekly with an expanded family group gathered around the table. \n\nHolidays and \"life event\" celebrations, from birthdays to wakes include multiple family customs, either superimposed upon the more broadly defined societal celebrations, or substituting for them. This is seen most obviously in traditions found in the preparation and \"performance\" of a holiday meal. Each family has their own unique traditions, from special dishes prepared only for this dinner, to a single individual who prepares and presents this single dish, to the individual assigned to carve the bird. It is unnecessary to mention examples of this; each North American reader is mentally reviewing the Thanksgiving traditions unique to his own family. This list of special holiday traditions in the family expands easily from the dining table to the family wake-up calls to the distribution of presents under the Christmas tree or Hanukah lights. Each of these, along with countless other details, distinguish this family as a unique social unit. \n\nAnother significant family tradition is that of naming customs. When a new baby is born, incorporating family names into the name for the new baby, or conversely not using family names for the next generation, can become problematic. What rules should be followed? Many ethnic groups have their own naming customs, variations of which might be found within the separate family groups of the parents. There are also differing ethnic customs of who has the authority to pick the name for the baby. When published lists of currently popular names along with expectations of individual family members are added to this mix, it can become a challenge to craft a name which pleases everyone. \n\nAll possessions are considered pieces of material culture - objects with which members of a culture customarily surround themselves. However, only handicrafts produced by family members and memorabilia passed along through generations are of interest in family folklore. \n\nMemorabilia are singular objects which are passed down through the family with the stories and memories about events or individuals attached to them. In one family a doll, given once as a Christmas present, continued to be brought out each year to celebrate Christmas and have her picture taken with the (changing) family. For her hundredth birthday, a birthday cake for the doll was included in the Christmas celebration. Like the doll, almost any object imbued with family stories and memories can become a family heirloom. As such, it holds in the family a value often unrelated to its monetary value. As the stories and memories enveloping the object are slowly lost, the object itself becomes a simple hand-me-down, usually in poor condition and ready to be discarded.\n\nHandicrafts are objects which have been \"homemade\", crafted individually using simple tools by one or more family members. The production skills for these artisanal crafts are generally transmitted within the family; the items might include weaving, welding, pottery, woodworking, quilting, basketry, cooking. They can be used functionally or as decoration in the home. Over time these handicrafts becomes a skill nurtured within the family, as well as a point of family identification for outsiders. The family cultivates both the production knowledge and the objects themselves. \n\nOne aspect of these objects, both family memorabilia and handicrafts, is that they are for the most part one-of-a-kind. Many family members can tell the story of the Christmas doll, or have the family photographs, but only one family branch can actually possess the doll. For handicrafts, a craftsman could decide to create a quilt or a rocking chair for each child in a family. But this just postpones the decision of ownership of the item to the following generation. \n\nEach of these material objects carries along with its stories or memories the ability for family members to experience simultaneity in the home. \"…by gathering around ourselves treasured objects from different times of our lives and our histories, we experience different eras at the same moment and in some way bring the totality of the past to bear upon the present.\" The family history and identity is preserved and transmitted, both for the family member who walks past the bowl sitting on the counter, and the outsider who asks about the origin of the unique item. \"The artifacts that family members make, use, or display can be an unseen backdrop to the duties and demands of family life. Alternatively, they might be carefully crafted statements about the values and expectations of family tradition bearers.\" The candy bowl on the coffee table or the silver tea service set out in the dining room speak of an elegance of hospitality which is customary in this family. \n\n1967 marked the first Smithsonian Folklife Festival, set up on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. to exhibit and demonstrate crafts and customs of diverse ethnic, regional and occupational groups. Originally including only displays from the United States, it later expanded to include traditions and customs from around the world. Each exhibit at the festival endeavors to move beyond the items of tangible culture, the arts and objects we can touch, feel and put in a glass case. Each unique performance or display at the Folklife Festival articulates the goal of the Smithsonian Institution to spread its reach beyond material objects to artifacts of intangible cultural heritage. Festival exhibits such as \"The Changing Soundscape in Indian Country\" (1992), \"American Social Dance\" (1993), \"Mississippi Delta\" (1997), \"Asian Pacific Americans: Local Lives, Global Ties\" (2010) are just a few of the exhibits included since the Festival began. Any of these cultural intangibles, including traditions of performance, ritual, music, dance, traditional knowledge, storytelling or oral transmission, is considered for inclusion at the festival. Its intention is to \"legitimize and celebrate individual Americans and their traditions\". Open to the public at no cost, the festival is devised to enable each visitor to find at least one exhibit which relates to his background, narrates a segment of his story.\nIn 1974 a new tent was added to the Festival. Instead of displaying or performing recognized traditions, its goal was to collect items of family folklore from visitors. This tent was unique at the festival in asking visitors to be active contributors to the folklife on display instead of merely receptive spectators. A sign at the tent was hopeful: \"Family Folklore – Will You Share Yours With Us?\" Card tables with checkered table clothes were set up, tape recorders and folklore interviewers on hand to prompt, listen and record family lore which visitors might share. Not only should each visitor see himself somewhere in the exhibits, but he should also recognize and record parts of his own story as a unique and valued artifact of cultural heritage. \n\nDuring the four years that the tent was included at the festival, it gradually cluttered with objects, memorabilia and photos just like any family home. Taking the taped interviews as a baseline, the stories and customs collected in the tent were used to establish an archive of family folklore as part of the Smithsonian collections. Representative pieces were then published in the book \"A Celebration of American Family Folklore: Tales and Traditions from the Smithsonian Collection\". This collection continues to be supported by the Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage and the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress. \n\nSince this first Smithsonian Folklife Festival, many regional festivals have been established in all parts of the country. These include the Northwest Folklife Festival, the New England Folk Festival and the Philadelphia Folk Festival to name just a few. Each of these is supported by various institutions of public folklore, with the goal of displaying traditions of regional, ethnic and occupational folk groups. None of them however has duplicated the Smithsonian Folklore tent intended to collect original family folklore.\n\nOral history and oral tradition first became recognized as legitimate forms of historical and cultural research in the 1960s and early 1970s. Pioneers in this field used newly developed inexpensive tape-recorders to record oral histories. A Pulitzer Prize was awarded to Studs Terkel in 1985 for his book \"\"The Good War\": An Oral History of World War II\" and a special Pulitzer Prize was awarded to Alex Haley in 1977 for \"Roots: The Saga of an American Family\". With these awards, the importance of oral histories and traditions as a bona fide tool of historical and cultural research was cemented.\n\nHistorical and folklore research using oral interviews has gone mainstream, with multiple organizations dedicated to its collection. One of the best known organizations is StoryCorps, founded in 2003 and modeled on the WPA Federal Writers Project. Its expressed mission is to \"record, preserve, and share stories of Americans from all backgrounds and beliefs\". Special projects reach out to targeted populations to fulfill StoryCorps' commitment to record a diverse array of voices. The only requirement for the 2-person interview is that the 2 participants \"care about each other\", for instance family members. The participants are given a recording of the interview to take with them and add to the family archive. \n\nStoryCorps is just one of many organizations with a goal of recording and preserving interviews of oral history and tradition. Other organizations abound, such as City Lore of New York City and the Oral History Society of London. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49233671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49233671", "title": "Flatline (B.o.B song)", "text": "Flatline (B.o.B song)\n\n\"Flatline\" is a song by American rapper B.o.B, initially released on SoundCloud in January 2016. \"Flatline\" is a diss song aimed at physicist Neil DeGrasse Tyson, whom he had gotten into an argument with on Twitter, over B.o.B's stated belief that the earth is flat. In addition to dissing Tyson and expressing belief in a flat earth, the song's lyrics also include other conspiracy theories, including Holocaust denial, \"mirror lizards\", and the belief that Freemasons are indoctrinating young people. The lyrics to the song refer to science as a cult. Jonathan Greenblatt, the CEO of the Anti-Defamation League, issued a statement saying that B.o.B's \"lyrics are irresponsible and could potentially promote anti-Semitic beliefs, especially in those people who might already be infected by such notions.\" \"Following criticism, B.o.B removed the song from his SoundCloud account, but it survives on YouTube and other sites where it was reposted. In April 2016, B.o.B included the song on a mixtape titled \"E.A.R.T.H. (Educational Avatar Reality Training Habitat)\", but the song lyrics had been rewritten as titled as pt. 2.\n"}
{"id": "3328431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3328431", "title": "Floral emblem", "text": "Floral emblem\n\nIn a number of countries, plants have been chosen as symbols to represent specific geographic areas. Some countries have a country-wide floral emblem; others in addition have symbols representing subdivisions. Different processes have been used to adopt these symbols – some are conferred by government bodies, whereas others are the result of informal public polls. The term floral emblem, which refers to flowers specifically, is primarily used in Australia and Canada. In the United States, the term state flower is more often used.\n\nThe national flower of Mauritius is \"Trochetia boutoniana\".\nLotus \"Nelumbo nucifera\".\nThe national flower of the Seychelles is \"Angraecum eburneum\", the tropicbird orchid (known locally as \"orkid payanke\").\n\nThe national flower of South Africa is the King Protea (\"Protea cynaroides\").\n\nThe national flower of India is sacred lotus Nelumbo nucifera\nThe national flower and floral emblem of Bangladesh is the \"shapla\" (), or \"Nymphaea nouchali\") See also: National Emblem of Bangladesh.\n\n\nCambodia formally adopted the romduol () as its national flower in the year 2005 by a royal decree. The royal decree designates the taxon as \"Mitrella mesnyi\", however this is a taxonomically illegitimate synonym for \"Sphaerocoryne affinis\" .\n\nThere are three types of floral emblems that symbolize Indonesia: \n\nAll three were chosen on World Environment Day in 1990. and enforced by law through Presidential Decree (\"Keputusan Presiden\") No. 4 1993, On the other occasion \"Bunga Bangkai\" (\"Titan arum\") was also added as \"puspa langka\" together with \"Rafflesia\".\n\n\"Melati\" (\"jasminum sambac\"), a small white flower with sweet fragrance, has long been considered as a sacred flower in Indonesian tradition, as it symbolizes purity, sacredness, graceful simplicity and sincerity. For example, on her wedding day, a traditional Indonesian bride's hair is often adorned with arrangements of jasmine, while the groom's kris is often adorned with a lock of jasmine. However, jasmine is also often used as floral offering for spirits and deities, and also often present during funerals which gave it its mystical and sacred properties. Moon Orchid was chosen for its beauty, while the other two rare flowers, \"Rafflesia arnoldii\" and \"Titan arum\" were chosen to demonstrate uniqueness and Indonesian rich biodiversity.\n\nEach of the 33 provinces of Indonesia also has a native plant as its provincial flower.\n\nThe Israeli national flower is the poppy anemone (\"Anemone coronaria\"; \"calanit metzuya\" in Hebrew), chosen in 2013 to replace \"Cyclamen persicum\".\n\nThe national flower is the plumeria (\"champa\"), despite it being no longer endemic.\n\nThe national flower of Malaysia is the \"bunga raya\" (Chinese Hibiscus, \"Hibiscus rosa-sinensis).\"\n\nThe national flower of the Maldives is the pink polyantha rose (fiyaathoshi finifenmaa)\n\n\n\n\nThe Philippines adopted the \"sampaguita\" (Arabian jasmine, \"Jasminum sambac\") in 1934 as its national flower because it symbolises purity and cleanliness due to its colour and sweet smell. It is popularly strung into garlands that are presented to visitors and dignitaries, and is a common offering to religious images.\n\nSri Lanka – \"Nil mānel\",(නිල් මානෙල්) blue-star water-lily (\"Nymphaea stellata\"). Although \"nil\" means ‘blue’ in Sinhala, the Sinhalese name of this plant is often rendered as \"water-lily\" in English.\n\nThis beautiful aquatic flower appears in the Sigiriya frescoes and has been mentioned in ancient Sanskrit, Pali and Sinhala literary works. Buddhist lore in Sri Lanka claims that this flower was one of the 108 auspicious signs found on Prince Siddhartha's footprint.\n\nThe national flower was officially designated as the plum blossom by the Executive Yuan of the Republic of China on July 21, 1964. The plum blossom, known as the \"meihua\" (), is symbol for resilience and perseverance in the face of adversity, because plum trees often bloom most vibrantly even during the harshest winters. The triple grouping of stamens represents Dr. Sun Yat-sen's Three Principles of the People, while the five petals symbolize the five branches of the government.\n\nThe national flower for Thailand is Golden Shower Tree (\"Cassia fistula\"), locally known as \"dok khuen\" or \"rachapruek\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSlovakia\n\n\n\n\nThe national flower of Antigua and Barbuda is \"Agave karatto\", also known as ‘dagger log’ or ‘batta log’.\n\nThe national flower of the Bahamas is the Yellow Elder (\"Tecoma stans\").\n\nThe national flower of Barbados is the known locally as the Pride of Barbados (\"Caesalpinia pulcherrima\").\n\nThe national flower of Belize is the Black Orchid (\"Prosthechea cochleata\")\n\nThe maple leaf is widely used as a symbol for Canada. The maple tree was officially recognized as Canada's arboreal emblem in 1996.\n\nThe official Provincial and Territorial floral emblems are:\n\nMany Canadian flags and coat of arms have floral emblems on them. The flag of Montreal has four floral emblems. On the right side of the flag of Saskatchewan overlapping both green and gold halves is the western red lily, the provincial floral emblem. The coat of arms of Port Coquitlam has the City's floral emblem, the azalea displayed on a collar. The coat of arms of Prince Edward Island displays Lady's Slippers, the floral emblem of the Island. The coat of arms of Nova Scotia has the trailing arbutus or mayflower, the floral emblem of Nova Scotia, added when the arms were reassumed in 1929.\n\nThe national flower of Costa Rica is the \"guaria morada\" (\"Guarianthe skinneri\")\".\"\n\nThe national flower of Dominica is Sabinea carinalis, commonly known as Carib Wood or Bois Caraibe.\n\nThe Dominican Republic's national flower was the flower of the \"caoba\" (mahogany tree, \"Swietenia mahagoni\"). In 2011, the mahogany was dubbed the national \"tree\", vacating the national flower spot for the Bayahibe rose (\"Pereskia quisqueyana\") in order to bring attention to its conservation.\n\nThe national flower of Guatemala is the \"monja blanca\" (\"Lycaste skinneri\" \"var. alba\").\n\n\nThe national flower of Honduras is the orchid \"Rhyncolaelia digbyana.\" \n\nThe national flower of Jamaica is the lignum vitae (\"Guaiacum officinale\").\n\nThe national flower of Mexico is the dahlia (\"dahlia pinnata\").\n\nIn 1986 President Ronald Reagan signed legislation to make the rose the floral emblem of the United States. In the United States, state flowers and trees have been adopted as symbols by state legislatures.\n\nThe Golden Wattle (\"Acacia pycnantha\") was officially proclaimed the floral emblem of Australia on 1 September 1988.\n\nThe Tahitian gardenia (tiare flower) is the national flower of Tahiti, French Polynesia and the Cook Islands.\n\nThe national flower is \"tagimaucia\" (\"Medinilla waterhousei\"), a vine with red and white flowers endemic to the highlands of the island of Taveuni.\n\nNew Zealand does not have an official national flower however the Silver Fern (foliage) is acknowledged as a national emblem in New Zealand. The Kowhai (\"Sophora\" spp., native trees with yellow cascading flowers) is usually regarded as the national flower. Other plant emblems are: Koru (a curled fern symbol) and the crimson-flowered Pohutukawa (\"Metrosideros excelsa\"), also called New Zealand's Christmas tree.\n\nThe \"heilala\" (\"Garcinia sessilis\") is Tonga's national flower. The name of Tonga's beauty pageant, the Heilala Festival, is taken from this flower. Resorts, as well as products, are also often named after this flower, such as the Heilala Lodge and Heilala Vanilla. The flower is also used in Tonga for medicinal and ornamental purposes.\n\nThe national flower of Argentina is the flower of the ceibo tree (\"Erythrina crista-galli\"), also known as \"seibo\" or \"bucaré\"\n\nBolivian national flowers are the \"kantuta\" (\"Cantua buxifolia\") and \"patujú\" (\"Heliconia rostrata\").\n\nThe national flower of Brazil is the flower of the Golden Trumpet Tree (\"Handroanthus albus\").\n\n\"Cattleya trianae\" is the national flower of Colombia and is the orchid which flowers in May. The May flower was chosen because the colors are the same as those of the Colombian flag.\n\n\nThe national flower of Peru is the cantuta (also spelled \"kantuta\" or \"qantuta\", from Quechua \"qantu\"). It can be found at the high valleys of the Andean territory, in Peru and Bolivia.\n\n\nCalled \"faya lobi\" (\"fiery love\") in Sranantongo, the ixora coccinea is a commonly considered a symbol of Suriname.\n\n\n\n\n\nEach of the four countries of the United Kingdom has a traditional floral emblem.\n\nA county flower is a flowering plant chosen to symbolise a county. They exist primarily in the United Kingdom, but some counties in other countries also have them.\n\nOne or two county flowers have a long history in England – the red rose of Lancashire dates from the Middle Ages, for instance. However, the county flower concept was only extended to cover the whole United Kingdom in 2002, as a promotional tool by a charity. In that year, the plant conservation charity Plantlife ran a competition to choose county flowers for all counties, to celebrate the Golden Jubilee of Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nPlantlife's scheme is loosely based on Britain's historic counties, and so some current local government areas are not represented by a flower, and some of the counties included no longer exist as administrative areas. Flowers were also chosen for thirteen major cities: Belfast, Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leeds, Liverpool, London, Manchester, Newcastle upon Tyne, Nottingham and Sheffield. The Isles of Scilly was also treated as a county (distinct from Cornwall) for the purpose of the scheme. The Isle of Man was included, even though it is not a county, but a self-governing territory outside of the United Kingdom with an existing national flower: the ragwort or \"cushag\". The Channel Islands were not included.\n\nA total of 94 flowers was chosen in the competition. 85 of the 109 counties have a unique county flower, but several species were chosen by more than one county. Foxglove or \"Digitalis purpurea\" was chosen for four counties – Argyll, Birmingham, Leicestershire and Monmouthshire – more than any other species. The following species were chosen for three counties each:\nAnd the following species were chosen for two counties:\nIn addition, Sticky Catchfly \"Lychnis viscaria\" was chosen for both Edinburgh and Midlothian, the county containing Edinburgh.\n\nFor most counties, native species were chosen, but for a small number of counties, non-natives were chosen, mainly archaeophytes. For example, Hampshire has a Tudor rose as its county flower, even though it is not a native species.\n\nNo plant or flower seems to be among the current official symbols. Some flowering plants from the area include \"Althaea armeniaca\", Armenian Basket, \"Muscari armeniacum\", Armenian Poppy, Armenian vartig (vargit), and \"Tulipa armena\".\n\nAzerbaijan currently has no official national flower. Traditionally, various regions have different designations where national symbols are concerned. The city of Shusha named the Khari Bulbul (\"Ophrys caucasica\") the floral emblem of the Nagorno-Karabakh.\n\nChina currently has no official national flower. Traditionally, various regions have different designations where national symbols are concerned.\n\nIn 1903, the Qing Dynasty named the peony () the floral emblem of the nation. The peony has long been considered a flower of wealth and honor in China.\n\nThe puppet state Manchukuo followed Japan's model of dual floral emblems: the \"spring orchid\" (Cymbidium goeringii) for the Emperor and the imperial household, and the sorghum blossom (Sorghum bicolor) for the state and the nation.\n\nThe plum blossom, \"meihua\" (), has also been one of the most beloved flowers in Chinese culture. The Republic of China government named the plum blossom as the national flower in 1964. The plum blossom is symbol for resilience and perseverance in the face of adversity, because plum blossoms often bloom most vibrantly even amidst the harsh winter snow.\n\nThe People's Republic of China, which has controlled mainland China since 1949, has no official floral emblem. There have been several petitions in recent years to officially adopt one. However, the government has not taken any action yet. A poll in 2005 showed that 41% of the public supports peony as the national flower while 36% supported the plum blossom. Some scholars have suggested that the peony and plum blossoms may be designated as dual national flowers. In addition, the orchid, jasmine, daffodil and chrysanthemum have also been held as possible floral symbols of China.\n\nDenmark has no official floral emblem. The daisy won an unofficial competition on a national flower in the 1980s, but it was not officially adopted. In 1936, the Danish foreign office responded to Argentina that it would be the red clover, due to its significance in agriculture. The letter is obscure and was soon forgotten. Denmark has never used a floral emblem.\n\nNo flower has been officially declared as a national symbol. Unofficially the rose and the orchid are claimed to hold that title.\n\nBoth Blue Egyptian Lotus and White Egyptian Lotus are regarded as Egypt's national flowers, and they appear in many Ancient Egyptian paintings and monuments.\n\nJapan's national government has never formally named a national flower, as with other symbols such as the green pheasant, which was named as national bird by a non-government body in 1947. In 1999, the national flag and anthem were standardised by law.\n\nA \"de facto\" national flower for Japan for many is the \"sakura\" (cherry blossom), while a stylised depiction of a Chrysanthemum morifolium is used as the official emblem of the imperial family (Imperial Seal of Japan). The paulownia blossom was also used by the imperial family in the past, but has since been appropriated by the Prime Minister and the government in general (Government Seal of Japan).\n\nWhile the Netherlands does not have an official national flower, the tulip is widely considered to be its national flower.\n\nWhile Vietnam does not have an official flower, four plants are traditional regarded as the \"four graceful plants\", namely: the lotus, the pine, bamboo, and the chrysanthemum. The lotus (\"Nelumbo nucifera\") is generally regarded as the unofficial national flower of Vietnam, as portrayed, for example, on their postage stamps. In Vietnamese tradition, the lotus is regarded as \"the symbol of purity, commitment and optimism for the future.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14232612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14232612", "title": "Folk poetry", "text": "Folk poetry\n\nFolk poetry (sometimes referred to as \"poetry in action\") is poetry that is part of a society's folklore, usually part of their oral tradition. When sung, folk poetry becomes a folk song.\n\nFolk poetry in general has several characteristics. It may be informal and unofficial, generally lacks an owner and may \"belong\" to the society, and its telling may be an implicitly social activity. The term can refer to poems of an oral tradition that may date back many years; that is, it is information that has been transmitted over time (between generations) \"only\" in spoken (and non-written) form. Thus as an oral tradition folk poetry requires a performer to promulgate it over generations.\n\nThe definition can also be extended to include not just oral epics, but latrinalia, many forms of childlore (skipping-rope rhymes, the words of counting-out games etc), and limericks; as well as including anonymous or improvised poems.\n\nNarrative folk poetry is often characterized by repetition, a focus on a single event (within an overall epic narrative if present), and an impersonal narration, as well as use of exaggeration and contrast.\n\nIt is thought that epics such as \"The Iliad\", and \"The Odyssey\" derive from, or are modeled on earlier folk-poetry forms.\n\n\n\nMany poets have worked in the style of, or imitated, folk poetry. These include Johann Gottfried Herder, Walter Scott, and Johan Ludvig Runeberg, and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "59044714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59044714", "title": "Fool's errand", "text": "Fool's errand\n\nA fool's errand is a type of practical joke or prank where a newcomer to a group, typically in a professional context, is given an impossible task by older or more experienced members of the group. Many such errands require the victim to travel some distance and request an impossible object by name; the prank will be widely known within the peer group, and the person they ask for the object will play along, often by sending the victim on to make the same request elsewhere.\n\nThe errand is an example of a hazing ritual, through which a newcomer gains acceptance into a group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14304512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14304512", "title": "Friends of Libraries", "text": "Friends of Libraries\n\nFriends of Libraries are non-profit, charitable groups formed to support libraries in their communities.\n\nThe County of Los Angeles Public Library reports having \"...77 Friends of the Library groups with over 5,523 members.\"\n\nFriends of Libraries groups are supported by a division of the American Library Association, called \"United for Libraries USA.\" The division was formed in 2009, when \"\"Friends of Libraries U.S.A. (FOLUSA)\" and the \"Association for Library Trustees and Advocates (ALTA)\" joined forces.\"\n\nEvery year, Friends of Libraries groups have their own national week of celebration. It is used to promote and raise awareness of the library's services within the community, and also to promote membership. It also serves as an opportunity for libraries and Boards of Trustees to recognize the Friends for their help and support of the library.\n\n\"United for Libraries USA\" provides many resources for Friends of Libraries groups, some of which include the following:\n\nMany organizations collect used books from the community in order to hold book sales to raise money for library programs. Each state and city library organization have their own programs and fundraisers.\n\nFriends of Libraries in the UK can be charities set up to run community libraries, or volunteers who support a public library by fundraising or arranging events for example. \n\nSometimes Friends groups are set up to campaign against a potential council closures of libraries or reductions in budgets.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "25881617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25881617", "title": "Globish (Gogate)", "text": "Globish (Gogate)\n\nGlobish is an artificial language created by Madhukar Gogate that attempts to simplify English. It was presented to the Simplified Spelling Society (now known as English Spelling Society) of Great Britain in 1998. According to its creator, it can be considered an artificial English dialect, as proof of the possibility of simplifying the orthography and pronunciation of standard English.\nFor example, the word \"colour/color\" is in globish \"kalar\". Gogate says that his project is related to, but independent from, English.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36683470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36683470", "title": "Hamburg Dramaturgy", "text": "Hamburg Dramaturgy\n\nThe Hamburg Dramaturgy () is a highly influential work on drama by Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, written between 1767 and 1769. It was not originally conceived as a unified and systematical book, but rather as series of essays on the theater, which Lessing wrote as commentary on the short-lived Hamburg National Theater. This collection of 101 short essays represents one of the first sustained critical engagements with the potential of theater as a vehicle for the advancement of humanistic discourse. In many ways, the \"Hamburg Dramaturgy\" defined the new field of dramaturgy, and also introduced the term.\n\nDuring the time Lessing wrote the \"Hamburg Dramaturgy,\" there was a new movement of German theatre, based on self-reflection. Actors were beginning to perform the inner and outer lives of their characters at the same time. One of Lessing's most famous and renowned quotes from the compilation considers the responsibilities of the actor and the playwright: “The great discernment of the drama critic lies in his ability to distinguish, whenever he feels pleasure or displeasure, to what extent that feeling should be credited to the writer or to the actor”\n\nThe idea of a journal with Lessing as a dramatic critic to reflect on the Hamburg National Theater's efforts was conceived by the theatre's founder Johann Friedrich Löwen, and Abel Seyler, \"the power behind the throne,\" who at first reluctantly agreed, but was eventually won over by the journal's success. Because the plays of the new German Bourgeoisie theatre became more detailed and complicated, the audience often felt confused or left out; Lessing’s development of the \"Hamburg Dramaturgy\" was in part a reaction to this.\n\nTopics covered by Lessing in the series of essays include Aristotle's theory of tragedy, acting theory, the role of theater in society, the means by which theater achieves its emotional effects, criticism of the actor and the play, issues of translation, and a nascent theory of the psychology of emotions. Lessing's writings were influential for many German theater artists who came after, notably Bertolt Brecht.\n\nThe analysis of the actor, according to Lessing, is grey area for a dramaturge. It is important to know that with an actor's performance, the circumstances are a large factor to the performance, whereas, for example, the text itself is easier to judge because it simply involves literary analysis. When analyzing an actor's performance, current events, environment, and mentality of the actor must all be taken into account. When Lessing published his essays, numerous actors from Hamburg plays were upset with Lessing's carelessness and disregard of their talents in his essay.\n\nIn 1890, Helen Zimmern published an English translation of the text, which was re-published by Dover in 1962. Zimmern's translation omits nearly 30% of the original text. Translators Wendy Arons and Sara Figal, with editor Natalya Baldyga, are producing a new, complete, and fully annotated translation of the text; the essays are being published online at MediaCommons Press and will be published in print form by Routledge.\n\nLessing's collection of essays are still being used as references today for the topic of dramaturgy, especially as a reference for art of theatre as an outlet for self-reflection, and how circumstances of the era during which a play was written affects how the audience perceives the work.\n\n"}
{"id": "22550775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22550775", "title": "Hispanist", "text": "Hispanist\n\nA Hispanist is a scholar specializing in Hispanic studies, that is Spanish language, literature, linguistics, history, or civilization by foreigners (i.e., non-Spaniards). It was used in the title of a publication by Miguel de Unamuno in 1906 and discussed at length for the U.S. by Hispanist Richard L. Kagan of Johns Hopkins University.\n\nThe work carried out by Hispanists includes translations of literature and they may specialize in certain genres, authors or historical periods of the Iberian Peninsula and Hispanic America.\n\nPublications dealing specifically with Hispanic studies include the \"Hispania\" quarterly published by the American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese (AATSP). Richard L. Kagan has edited a volume on Hispanism in the United States and Hispanist historian J.H. Elliot has discussed it in his volume \"History in the Making\". \n\n\nThe Spanish-language portal run by the Instituto Cervantes lists over 60 associations of Hispanists around the world, including the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "32929037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32929037", "title": "Kunyi language", "text": "Kunyi language\n\nKunyi is a Bantu language spoken in R. Congo.\n"}
{"id": "17703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17703", "title": "Leo (constellation)", "text": "Leo (constellation)\n\nLeo is one of the constellations of the zodiac, lying between Cancer the crab to the west and Virgo the maiden to the east. Its name is Latin for lion, and to the ancient Greeks represented the Nemean Lion killed by the mythical Greek hero Heracles meaning 'Glory of Hera' (known to the ancient Romans as Hercules) as one of his twelve labors. Its symbol is (Unicode ♌). One of the 48 constellations described by the 2nd-century astronomer Ptolemy, Leo remains one of the 88 modern constellations today, and one of the most easily recognizable due to its many bright stars and a distinctive shape that is reminiscent of the crouching lion it depicts. The lion's mane and shoulders also form an asterism known as \"The Sickle,\" which to modern observers may resemble a backwards \"question mark.\"\n\nLeo contains many bright stars, many of which were individually identified by the ancients. There are four stars of first or second magnitude, which render this constellation especially prominent:\n\nThe other named stars in Leo are Mu Leonis, Rasalas (an abbreviation of \"Al Ras al Asad al Shamaliyy\", meaning \"The Lion's Head Toward the South\"); and Theta Leonis, Chertan or Coxa (\"hip\").\n\nLeo is also home to one bright variable star, the red giant R Leonis. It is a Mira variable with a minimum magnitude of 10 and normal maximum magnitude of 6; it periodically brightens to magnitude 4.4. R Leonis, 330 light-years from Earth, has a period of 310 days and a diameter of 450 solar diameters.\n\nThe star Wolf 359 (CN Leonis), one of the nearest stars to Earth at 7.8 light-years away, is in Leo. Wolf 359 is a red dwarf of magnitude 13.5; it periodically brightens by one magnitude or less because it is a flare star. Gliese 436, a faint star in Leo about 33 light-years away from the Sun, is orbited by a transiting Neptune-mass extrasolar planet.\n\nThe carbon star CW Leo (IRC +10216) is the brightest star in the night sky at the infrared N-band (10 μm wavelength).\n\nThe star SDSS J102915+172927 (Caffau's star) is a population II star in the galactic halo seen in Leo. It is about 13 billion years old, making it one of the oldest stars in the Galaxy. It has the lowest metallicity of any known star.\n\nModern astronomers, including Tycho Brahe in 1602, excised a group of stars that once made up the \"tuft\" of the lion's tail and used them to form the new constellation Coma Berenices (Berenice's hair), although there was precedent for that designation among the ancient Greeks and Romans.\n\nLeo contains many bright galaxies; Messier 65, Messier 66, Messier 95, Messier 96, Messier 105, and NGC 3628 are the most famous, the first two being part of the Leo Triplet.\n\nThe Leo Ring, a cloud of hydrogen and helium gas, is found in orbit of two galaxies found within this constellation.M66 is a spiral galaxy that is part of the Leo Triplet, whose other two members are M65 and NGC 3628. It is at a distance of 37 million light-years and has a somewhat distorted shape due to gravitational interactions with the other members of the Triplet, which are pulling stars away from M66. Eventually, the outermost stars may form a dwarf galaxy orbiting M66. Both M65 and M66 are visible in large binoculars or small telescopes, but their concentrated nuclei and elongation are only visible in large amateur instruments.\nM95 and M96 are both spiral galaxies 20 million light-years from Earth. Though they are visible as fuzzy objects in small telescopes, their structure is only visible in larger instruments. M95 is a barred spiral galaxy. M105 is about a degree away from the M95/M96 pair; it is an elliptical galaxy of the 9th magnitude, also about 20 million light-years from Earth.\n\nNGC 2903 is a barred spiral galaxy discovered by William Herschel in 1784. It is very similar in size and shape to the Milky Way and is located 25 million light-years from Earth. In its core, NGC 2903 has many \"hotspots\", which have been found to be near regions of star formation. The star formation in this region is thought to be due to the presence of the dusty bar, which sends shock waves through its rotation to an area with a diameter of 2,000 light-years. The outskirts of the galaxy have many young open clusters.\n\nLeo is also home to some of the largest structures in the observable universe. Some of the structures found in the constellation are the Clowes–Campusano LQG, U1.11, U1.54, and the Huge-LQG, which are all large quasar groups; the latter being the second largest structure known (see also NQ2-NQ4 GRB overdensity).\n\nThe Leonids occur in November, peaking on November 14–15, and have a radiant close to Gamma Leonis. Its parent body is Comet Tempel-Tuttle, which causes significant outbursts every 35 years. The normal peak rate is approximately 10 meteors per hour.\n\nThe January Leonids are a minor shower that peaks between January 1 and 7.\n\nLeo was one of the earliest recognized constellations, with archaeological evidence that the Mesopotamians had a similar constellation as early as 4000 BCE. The Persians called Leo \"Ser\" or \"Shir\"; the Turks, \"Artan\"; the Syrians, \"Aryo\"; the Jews, \"Arye\"; the Indians, \"Simha\", all meaning \"lion\". \n\nSome mythologists believe that in Sumeria, Leo represented the monster Humbaba, who was killed by Gilgamesh.\n\nIn Babylonian astronomy, the constellation was called UR.GU.LA, the \"Great Lion\"; the bright star Regulus was known as \"the star that stands at the Lion's breast.\" Regulus also had distinctly regal associations, as it was known as the King Star.\n\nIn Greek mythology, Leo was identified as the Nemean Lion which was killed by Heracles (Hercules to the Romans) during the first of his twelve labours. The Nemean Lion would take women as hostages to its lair in a cave, luring warriors from nearby towns to save the damsel in distress, to their misfortune. The Lion was impervious to any weaponry; thus, the warriors' clubs, swords, and spears were rendered useless against it. Realizing that he must defeat the Lion with his bare hands, Hercules slipped into the Lion's cave and engaged it at close quarters. When the Lion pounced, Hercules caught it in midair, one hand grasping the Lion's forelegs and the other its hind legs, and bent it backwards, breaking its back and freeing the trapped maidens. Zeus commemorated this labor by placing the Lion in the sky.\n\nThe Roman poet Ovid called it \"Herculeus Leo\" and \"Violentus Leo\". \"Bacchi Sidus\" (star of Bacchus) was another of its titles, the god Bacchus always being identified with this animal. However, Manilius called it \"Jovis et Junonis Sidus\" (Star of Jupiter and Juno).\n\n, the Sun appears in the constellation Leo from August 10 to September 10. In tropical astrology, the Sun is considered to be in the sign Leo from July 23 to August 22, and in sidereal astrology, from August 16 to September 17.\n\nLeo is commonly represented as if the sickle-shaped asterism of stars is the back of the Lion's head. The sickle is marked by six stars: Epsilon Leonis, Mu Leonis, Zeta Leonis, Gamma Leonis, Eta Leonis, and Alpha Leonis. The lion's tail is marked by Beta Leonis (Denebola) and the rest of his body is delineated by Delta Leonis and Theta Leonis.\n\nH.A. Rey has suggested an alternative way to connect the stars, which graphically shows a lion walking. The stars delta Leonis, gamma Leonis, eta Leonis, and theta Leonis form the body of the lion, with gamma Leonis being of the second magnitude and delta Leonis and theta Leonis being of the third magnitude. The stars gamma Leonis, zeta Leonis, mu Leonis, epsilon Leonis, and eta Leonis form the lion's neck, with epsilon Leonis being of the third magnitude. The stars mu Leonis, kappa Leonis, lambda Leonis, and epsilon Leonis form the head of the lion. Delta Leonis and beta Leonis form the lion's tail: beta Leonis, also known as Denebola, is the bright tip of the tail with a magnitude of two. The stars theta Leonis, iota Leonis, and sigma Leonis form the left hind leg of the lion, with sigma Leonis being the foot. The stars theta Leonis and rho Leonis form the right hind leg, with rho Leonis being the foot. The stars eta Leonis and Alpha Leonis mark the lion's heart, with alpha Leonis, also known as Regulus, being the bright star of magnitude one. The stars eta Leonis and omicron Leonis form the right front foot of the Lion.\n\nUSS Leonis (AK-128) was a United States Navy Crater class cargo ship named after the Latin version of this constellation name. \"\n\nThe Beyblade top Rock Leone 145WB and its evolution Fang Leone 130W2D are based on Leo constellation .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "855375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=855375", "title": "List of Major League Baseball mascots", "text": "List of Major League Baseball mascots\n\nThis is a list of current and former Major League Baseball mascots, sorted alphabetically.\n\nThe tradition in the Major League Baseball mascot began with Mr. Met, introduced for the New York Mets when Shea Stadium opened in 1964. Although some mascots came and went over time, the popularity of mascots increased when The San Diego Chicken started independently making appearances at San Diego Padres games in 1977. Philadelphia Phillies management felt they needed a mascot similar to the Chicken, so they debuted the Phillie Phanatic in 1978.\n\nToday, all but three major-league teams have \"official\" mascots (Dodgers, Yankees, and Angels). Five team mascots — Sluggerrr (Kansas City Royals), the San Diego Chicken, the Phillie Phanatic, Mr. Met, and Slider (Cleveland Indians) — have been inducted into the Mascot Hall of Fame. Several others have been nominated since the Hall's creation in 2005.\n\nMascots in the MLB are often used to help market the team and league to young children.\n\nAce is the official mascot of the Toronto Blue Jays. He, along with his female counterpart, \"Diamond\" replaced former mascot BJ Birdie before the 2002 season as a mascot duo. Like his predecessor, Ace resembles a large blue jay. The mascot's name is baseball slang for a team's top starting pitcher (the \"ace\" of the staff, such as former Blue Jays pitcher Roy Halladay).\n\nIn 2004, Ace became the sole mascot of the team after Diamond was removed by the Blue Jays prior to the start of the season. In 2011, Blue Jays fans were introduced to his younger brother Junior (see below).\n\nBarrelman (aka \"Owgust\" and \"Beer Barrel Man\"), is an auxiliary mascot for the Milwaukee Brewers. He was resurrected and upgraded to be a costumed performing character in 2015, having previously only been an official logo image and since 1977 only appearing on special materials.\n\nBaxter the Bobcat is the mascot of the Arizona Diamondbacks. His full name is D. Baxter the Bobcat, and he became the mascot in 2000. The mascot was created by Brantley Bell (who is currently an infielder in the Cincinnati Reds minor league system), the son of Jay Bell, one of the players on the Diamondbacks 1998 inaugural season roster. Brantley came up with the name from two sources. \"D. Baxter\" comes from the team's nickname, \"the D-Backs\". The bobcat is from the original name of the stadium where the Diamondbacks play. Today called Chase Field, it was once called Bank One Ballpark, or \"BOB\" for short. The bobcat is a wild cat native to Arizona.\n\nBernie Brewer is the official mascot for the Milwaukee Brewers.\n\nThe Bernie Brewer character became the team's mascot in 1973, appearing as a cheerful man with a big mustache. A beer-barreled chalet was built for him inside the stadium where he led the crowd cheering. Following each home run and every victory by the Brewers, he would slide down and plunge himself into a huge beer mug in celebration. He was joined by a companion Bonnie Brewer, who would playfully swat at the backside of the opposing team's third base coach with a broom as the field crew swept the base paths.\n\nBernie Brewer was a fixture at Brewers home games until 1984, when the Brewers re-built the bleachers, replacing the chalet with a sound tower and sending Bernie into retirement. By popular demand, Bernie Brewer came out of his retirement in 1993, when the fans voted for his return. Bernie was brought back not as just a mustachioed man in lederhosen, but a full-body costume of a man, including large foam head. The chalet was then rebuilt (it had been in storage on the third base side under the box seats) above the left-center field bleachers. The original beer mug that Bernie used to slide into is still in Milwaukee, Wisconsin as part of the Lakefront Brewery, Inc. tour.\n\nBilly The Marlin is the official mascot of the Miami Marlins. Resembling a marlin with limbs, he can be seen at every Marlins home game. He competes in a waterboat race, which is a computer-animated video shown on the screen, during each game. The name, picked by original team owner Wayne Huizenga, is derived from the fact that a marlin is a billfish, and Huizenga wanted a name that was different from the baseball type names of other mascots (like Slider and Sluggerrr) and one that children could remember more easily. On Mothers Day and Father's Day, Billy is joined by his parents, Bill Sr. and Betty the Marlin. Billy is also seen at games dancing with kids on the field in between innings and making special appearances in the Fan Zone.\n\nOn Opening Day of 1997, the year the Marlins won their first World Series Championship, a Navy SEAL who was parachuting into Hard Rock Stadium (then known as Pro Player Stadium) as Billy, lost the head in mid-air. While the crowd was unaware of the problem, media outlets had been alerted to Billy's parachute entrance. When he didn't arrive, the media ran with the story, getting national attention and leading to ESPN's Dan Patrick's nightly quote, \"Bring me the head of Billy the Marlin!\"\n\nThe original Billy The Marlin was John Routh, who spent 10 years (1993–2002) entertaining Marlins fans. Routh previously portrayed the University of Miami mascots, Sebastian the Ibis and The Miami Maniac from 1983–1993, and prior to that, Cocky for the University of South Carolina Gamecocks.\n\nBlooper is the new mascot of the Atlanta Braves.\n\nOn January 13, 2014, the Chicago Cubs announced that Clark, a \"young, friendly Cub\", would become the team's first official mascot in modern history. Clark was named after Clark Street, since the Cubs home field, Wrigley Field, is famously located at \"Clark and Addison\".\n\nThe D-backs Luchador is the second mascot of the Arizona Diamondbacks. After a giveaway of masks in June 2012 proved popular, the team introduced the Luchador as a permanent character in July 2013. He wears a black cape, red pants, and a mask patterned after the team's logo. Meant to represent the team's Hispanic fans, the Luchador also wrestles with Club Deportivo Coloseo at the Glendale Park and Swap.\n\nDinger is the official mascot of the Colorado Rockies. He is an anthropomorphic purple triceratops. The choice of a dinosaur, specifically this type, was inspired by the discovery of a number of dinosaur fossils—most notably a , triceratops skull—at Coors Field during its construction. His name \"Dinger\" is one of many slang terms for a home run.\n\nDinger is often seen on the field before and after the game and roaming around the stadium during the game. When Rockies hitters are at bat in the late innings of a game, he often dances in the seats immediately behind home plate in an effort to distract opposing pitchers, sitting down only immediately before the beginning motion of each pitch.\n\nDinger has been the Colorado Rockies biggest fan since he first hatched from his egg at Mile High Stadium on April 16, 1994 . Dinger works year-round promoting physical fitness and literacy for thousands of elementary school students in the Rocky Mountain Region. He acts out his own Dinger Story for the kids. He also makes appearances at Children's Hospital Colorado and Denver Health. He makes appearances at Rockies events including the 5K Home Run, and the Rockies Rookies Kids Fan Club.\nHe is a purple dinosaur with a Rockies jersey on with black sneakers.\n\nDJ Kitty is the new mascot for the Tampa Bay Rays. DJ Kitty comes from the Internet sensation of a kitty playing a DJ System and dancing to the music. The cat wears a Tampa Bay Rays ring, wears chains, and wears his Rays hat backwards. As of 2013, DJ Kitty is the new secondary mascot for the Rays along with Raymond.\n\nFredbird is the official mascot for the St. Louis Cardinals. He is an anthropomorphic cardinal wearing the team's uniform. A person dressed up as Fredbird can often be found entertaining young children during baseball games at Busch Stadium. His name is derived from \"Redbird\", a synonym for the cardinal bird and for the Cardinals themselves.\n\nFredbird was introduced in 1979 by the Cardinals, then owned by Anheuser-Busch, to entertain younger fans at the games. He quickly became popular with fans for his dancing, habit of \"beaking\" the heads of supporters, and for throwing T-shirts into the stands. In later years, he has been joined by \"Team Fredbird\", a group of young women employed by the club who help him with his T-shirt toss and occasionally in other duties. He is one of baseball's best-known mascots, and he makes hundreds of appearances year-round in the St. Louis area.\n\nGapper is one of the current mascots for the Cincinnati Reds. He was first introduced as the furry companion to Mr. Red, the long-time mascot in the winter of 2002 as the franchise was preparing to move to their new home, Great American Ball Park. The mascot was created by David Raymond's Raymond Entertainment Group, the founder being the man inside the Phillie Phanatic costume from 1973 to 1993. A young fan won two season tickets for submitting the winning name; he is named after the \"gap\" in the stands in the seats of Great American, which provides a view into and out of the stadium. The term \"gapper\" is also a slang phrase for a batted ball which falls into the \"gap\" between outfielders (generally a ball hit to either left-center or right-center field which rolls to the fence). According to a recent cincinnati.com poll of the Red's four mascots, he is the least popular amongst fans. He received 6% of the voting, Mr. Red received 23%, Rosie Red received 34%, and Mr. Redlegs received 47%.\n\nJunior is the younger brother of Ace. He made his mascot debut in 2011. He is half the size of Ace and wears the number 1/2. He only appears on Jr. Jays Sundays (formerly Jr. Jays Saturdays, prior to the 2018 season).\n\nLou Seal is the official mascot of the San Francisco Giants. \"Born\" on July 25, 1996, Luigi Francisco Seal has been a regular part of all Giants home games, as well as numerous events in San Francisco and around the United States, ever since. Although his name (a play on the name \"Lucille\") is a bit ambiguous, he is indeed \"officially\" male and the person inside the costume is a man. Species-wise, Lou Seal is a reference to the San Francisco Seals, the baseball club that was a mainstay of the Pacific Coast League from 1903 until 1957.\n\nIn a contest held by the Giants where fans were asked for ideas, six people submitted the name \"Lou Seal.\" These lucky fans were then invited to a game that season where they sat in a luxury box and got to meet the newly named mascot, and one of them was randomly chosen to throw out the first pitch. In 2008 Forbes Magazine named Lou Seal the best mascot in sports. He has had 1,150 consecutive home-game appearances, and is one of the four subjects followed in the second season of the Hulu series \"Behind the Mask\".\n\nLou Seal also made occasional appearances at the Giants' High-A minor league team, the San Jose Giants. This practice ended in 2006 when the San Jose Giants introduced their own mascot named Gigante.\n\nThe Mariner Moose is the mascot of the Seattle Mariners. In 1990, a contest for children 14 and under was held to select a mascot, after 2500 entries the club chose the \"Mariner Moose\" The Moose made his debut on April 13, 1990 dancing on the field at the Kingdome.\nDuring the 1995 American League Division Series between the M's and the New York Yankees, the Moose gained national attention when he broke his ankle crashing into the outfield wall at the Kingdome while being towed on inline skates behind an ATV in the outfield. Inline skating behind an ATV would continue to be a fan favorite until 1999, when the team moved to Safeco Field and a natural grass playing surface. Since then, the Moose has become quite adept at driving his own ATV around Safeco Field's warning track while performing various tricks and having water coolers emptied on him by bullpen pitchers.\n\nThe Moose makes several hundred appearances in the community each year in addition to Mariners home games, at everything from hospitals to wedding receptions. The Mariner Moose was featured on the ballot for the Mascot Hall of Fame in 2006 and 2007. He also nearly ran over Coco Crisp with his ATV in 2007, raising the ire of Red Sox pitching coach John Farrell.\n\nMr. Met is the official mascot of the New York Mets, and MLB's first live action mascot (April 14, 1964). He is a baseball-headed humanoid being who wears a Mets cap and uniform. He can be seen at Citi Field (and previously at Shea Stadium) during Mets home games. He also has appeared in several commercials as part of ESPN's This is SportsCenter campaign, and was selected in 2007 into the Mascot Hall of Fame. Starting in 2014, Mr. Met appeared as a sleeve patch on the Mets' blue alternate home and road jerseys.\n\nMrs. Jan Met (or Lady Met) is the female version of Mr. Met, the mascot of the New York Mets. She is a baseball-headed humanoid being, has brown hair in a ponytail and wears a Mets cap and uniform.\n\nMrs. Met first appeared at games in 1975 before disappearing into obscurity. She appeared with Mr. Met in a 2003 \"This is SportsCenter\" commercial. The Mets reintroduced Mrs. Met in mascot form in 2013.\n\nMr. Red (or The Running Man) was the first mascot of the Cincinnati Reds baseball team. He is a humanoid figure dressed in a Reds uniform, with an oversized baseball for a head.\n\nMr. Red made his first appearance on a Reds uniform as a sleeve patch in 1955. The patch featured Mr. Red's head, clad in an old-fashioned white pillbox baseball cap with red stripes. The following season, 1956, saw the Reds adopt sleeveless jerseys, and Mr. Red was eliminated from the home uniform. He was moved to the left breast of the road uniform, and remained there for one season before being eliminated entirely. In 1999, the Reds re-designed their uniform and \"Mr. Red\" was reintroduced as a sleeve patch on the undershirt.\nA human version of the mascot didn't appear until the early 1980s. The costumed mascot disappeared in the late 1980s but was reintroduced in 1997. The humanoid Mr. Red retired in 2007 leaving Gapper, Rosie Red and Mr. Redlegs to take his place. A new version of Mr. Red was unveiled at Redsfest 2012; the new mascot will be on the field with Mr. Redlegs, Gapper and Rosie Red.\n\nMr. Redlegs is a mascot of the Cincinnati Reds. He was reintroduced in 2007 to play a supporting role, along with Mr. Red. Mr. Redlegs appeared as a patch on the Reds' uniforms for two seasons in the 1950s (the team briefly assumed the nickname as a response to the second red scare). In 2008, Mr. Redlegs gained national notoriety by falling off of an ATV during pre-game antics. This caused the large, baseball-shaped head to fall off of the Mr. Redlegs costume, exposing the head of the person inside the costume. He was seen a few days later wearing a neck brace as a joke.\n\nOrbit is the mascot of the Houston Astros. Orbit represents a green space alien with antennae, in keeping with the Space City theme of the city of Houston. Originally serving as team mascot from 1990 until 1999, he was replaced by a new mascot, Junction Jack.\n\nTo coincide with the Astros' move to the American League West and unveiling of their new uniforms, caps, and logo, Orbit was reintroduced on November 2, 2012 to serve as the Astros' mascot once more for 2013 and beyond.\n\nThe Oriole Bird is the official mascot of the Baltimore Orioles and is a cartoon version of the bird of the same name. He was \"hatched\" out of a giant egg prior to the team's 1979 season opener at Memorial Stadium on April 6. According to Orioles.com, The Oriole Bird's favorite foods are \"mostly bird seed, with occasional crab cake.\" The Oriole Bird's head was featured on the team's caps from 1966 until 1988, and again since 2012.\n\nPaws is the mascot of the Detroit Tigers. He is a tiger who made his debut on May 5, 1995, in Tiger Stadium. He wears a Tigers hat and jersey; in previous years, Paws' jersey would have the current season's 2 digit abbreviation (i.e. '10 for 2010). However, in 2011 and 2016, Paws' number changed to 00, since the Tigers retired #11 and #16 in honor of Sparky Anderson and Hal Newhouser, respectively. His dress changes during Comerica Park theme nights such as a Santa Claus outfit during \"Christmas in July\" night, or an Elvis Presley-inspired costume for Elvis Night. He \"resides\" in Comerica Park to this day.\nPhillie Phanatic is the official mascot of the Philadelphia Phillies. He is a large, furry, green bi-pedal creature with a cylindrical beak containing a tongue that sticks out. He was created by Harrison/Erickson, who thought that the team needed a mascot similar to The San Diego Chicken. The character is named for the fanatical fans of the team and, according to current owner and former team vice president, Bill Giles, was to bring more families to Veterans Stadium, the Phillies' ballpark at the time, which had become noted for rowdiness and even violence at times. He can be seen riding around on an ATV at home games. In 2008, Forbes named the Phanatic the second best mascot in sports, behind San Francisco's Lou Seal.\n\nThe Pierogis are a series of seven people dressed in pierogi costumes that race in a promotion between innings during Pittsburgh Pirates baseball games. The contestants in this race include: Jalapeño Hannah (green hat), Cheese Chester (yellow), Sauerkraut Saul (red), Oliver Onion (purple), Bacon Burt (orange), Potato Pete (blue), and Pizza Penny (Red and White checkered). The Great Pierogi Race was inspired by the Milwaukee Brewers' Sausage Race.\n\nThe Pirate Parrot is the mascot of the Pittsburgh Pirates, debuting in 1979. He is a large green parrot who wears a Pirates jersey and cap. The character of a parrot was derived from the classic story \"Treasure Island\" by Robert Louis Stevenson, most notably the one owned by Long John Silver named \"Captain Flint\". He is often seen dancing on the dugouts and shooting hot-dogs from a cannon.\n\nThe Washington Nationals have a President Race during their games. The race debuted in 2006, and the four presidents on Mount Rushmore – George Washington (\"George\"), Thomas Jefferson (\"Tom\"), Abraham Lincoln (\"Abe\"), and Theodore Roosevelt (\"Teddy\") – have raced in every season since. In , a fifth permanent contestant – William Howard Taft (\"Bill\") – was added. A sixth contestant was added in as part of a three-year marketing deal with the White House Historical Association, with the sixth slot changing annually based on the president featured by the association on its annual Christmas ornament. Calvin Coolidge (\"Cal\") was the first to fill the sixth slot, making his debut in July 2015. Herbert Hoover (\"Herbie\") replaced Coolidge for . Each president has a uniform number corresponding to his place in the order in which they held the office (George – 1; Tom – 3; Abe – 16; Teddy – 26; William – 27; Cal – 30; Herbie – 31).\n\nThe Racing Presidents became an instant success upon their 2006 debut and make multiple public appearances every year. Notably, Abraham Lincoln appeared on the Illinois float for President Barack Obama's first inauguration parade on January 20, 2009.\n\nA running gag with the Racing Presidents from 2006 to 2012 was that Teddy could never win a race, although he came close in 2012, after apparently defeating the other three presidents: While he was \"Tebowing\" near the finish line, George drove up in a car and whacked him in the back of the head with a baseball bat, knocking him out before he could finish the race. In October 2012, however, just before the regular season ended and shortly before the Nationals' first postseason run began, Teddy finally won his first race, and he then went on to win four straight.\n\nThe Nationals scrapped plans to replace Herbie in with the president to be featured on that year's White House Historical Association Christmas ornament. Instead, they announced before the 2017 season that Bill, Cal, and Herbie all had retired to Florida, where in 2017 they began a new series of Presidents Races among themselves during Nationals spring training games at FITTEAM Ballpark of the Palm Beaches in West Palm Beach. Meanwhile, the Presidents Race at Nationals Park returned in 2017 to its original format of 2006-2012, featuring only George, Tom, Abe, and Teddy.\n\nRally Squirrel is a secondary mascot for the St. Louis Cardinals. He is an anthropomorphic squirrel wearing the team's uniform with a number 11 (presumably for the 2011 postseason), and was introduced not long after an actual squirrel appeared on the field at Busch Stadium during the fifth inning of Game 4 of the 2011 National League Division Series. The squirrel ran across home plate as Philadelphia Phillies pitcher Roy Oswalt was delivering a pitch to Skip Schumaker, causing Oswalt to complain to the umpire that he was distracted by the squirrel. The video of the incident became very popular, and several local businesses in the St. Louis area began creating items to capitalize on the phenomenon.\n\nA performer dressed up as Rally Squirrel took part in Cardinals fan rallies beginning with Game 3 of the 2011 National League Championship Series, and was a companion of the existing Cardinals mascot Fredbird during the remainder of the postseason, assisting Fredbird and Team Fredbird with their duties entertaining the Cardinals fans at Busch Stadium. Since the Cardinals won the 2011 World Series, it is unknown if Rally Squirrel would become an official secondary mascot alongside Fredbird.\n\nRangers Captain is the mascot for the Texas Rangers. Introduced in 2002, he is a palomino-style horse, dressed in the team's uniform. He wears the uniform number \"72\" in honor of 1972, the year the Rangers relocated to the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex.\n\nRangers Captain has multiple uniforms to match each of the variants the team has; his chosen uniform for the game matches the uniform choice made by the team for that particular game. However, his outfit sometimes matches a theme the team is promoting; as an example, on April 24, 2010, he dressed up like Elvis Presley as part of an Elvis theme promotional night.\n\nRaymond is the mascot of the Tampa Bay Rays. Raymond is a furry blue creature wearing a large pair of sneakers and a backwards baseball cap, completed with a Rays jersey. He is described officially as a \"seadog\", having been born somewhere in the Gulf of Mexico. He is said to reside in a private condominium inside Tropicana Field. Raymond was awarded an honorable mention in the GameOps.com Best Mascot contest for 2006.\n\nRosie Red is the female mascot of the Cincinnati Reds. She was introduced in August 2008 as the new companion of Gapper and Mr. Redlegs, and her name comes from a female fan, Rosie Janis, who became famous in 1940 for cheering for the team, and is also derived from a female fan group founded to prevent the team from moving from Cincinnati in 1963 and is a philanthropic group associated with the team. The official group name comes from the acronym of \"Rooters Organized to Stimulate Interest and Enthuiasm in the Cincinnati Reds.\"\n\nThe sausages are unofficial mascots of the Milwaukee Brewers. They are stylized in the appearance of sausages from around the world. When they were debuted in the mid-1990s there were only three: The German Bratwurst, The Polish Kielbasa, and The Italian Sausage. In the late 1990s the Hot Dog became a racer. In 2006 a fifth sausage was debuted, The Spanish Chorizo. They are a favorite of fans and make sports highlights reels occasionally.\n\nScreech is the mascot of the Washington Nationals. He is a bald eagle who wears the home cap and jersey of the team. He was \"hatched\" on April 17, 2005 at the \"Kids Opening Day\" promotion at Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium. A nine-year-old fourth grade student in Washington, Glenda Gutierrez, designed the mascot and won a contest sponsored by the team, explaining that it was \"strong and eats almost everything.\" A new \"matured\" edition of the mascot was unveiled March 2, 2009. The Springfield Falcons, which played in the American Hockey League until they moved to Tucson in 2016, also had a mascot named Screech.\n\nSlider is the mascot for the Cleveland Indians. He is a large, furry fuchsia-colored creature. He has a large yellow nose and shaggy yellow eyebrows. He was created in 1990, inspired by the Phillie Phanatic. He was best known for an injury during the 1995 American League Championship Series when he fell six feet off an outfield wall and tore knee ligaments. He was inducted into the Mascot Hall of Fame in 2008.\n\nSluggerrr is the official mascot of the Kansas City Royals. The lion whose mane looks like a crown made his debut on April 5, 1996. The word slugger also refers to a powerful batter with a high percentage of extra base hits. Sluggerrr is one of few mascots that has Facebook and Twitter accounts, both clearly marked on his homepage.\n\nIn 2009, a spectator was injured by a hot dog thrown into the stands by Sluggerrr as part of a between-innings promotion. The spectator sued the Royals organization, claiming that they had been negligent. A jury found that neither the team nor the fan were at fault, and awarded no damages.\n\nIn 2017, Sluggerrr was inducted into the Mascot Hall of Fame.\n\nSouthpaw is the mascot of the Chicago White Sox. His name is a reference to a left-hand pitcher and is also a reference to Chicago's South Side, where the team plays. He was on a float for Illinois at Barack Obama's inauguration, along with the Washington Nationals racing president representation of Abraham Lincoln.\n\nStomper is the mascot of the Oakland Athletics. Created in 1997, he is an elephant who wears an A's uniform adorned with the number 00. Stomper has performed at several All-Star Games and has appeared in a Public Service Announcement discouraging the use of chewing tobacco.\n\nThe use of an elephant to symbolize the A's dates back to the early years of the franchise, when a group of Philadelphia businessmen, headed by industrialist Benjamin Shibe, became the team's first owners. When asked to comment, John McGraw, manager of the New York Giants of the rival National League, said something to the effect that \"Shibe had bought himself a white elephant.\" In response, A's manager (and future owner) Connie Mack selected the elephant as the team symbol and mascot. From time to time an illustration of an elephant has been featured on the Athletics uniform, including from 1988 to the present.\n\nThe Swinging Friar is the mascot of the San Diego Padres.\n\nThe Swinging Friar has been a mascot with the team as early as 1958, when the Padres were still a member of the Pacific Coast League, a minor league baseball organization. He was named after the Spanish Franciscan friars, who founded the Mission San Diego de Alcalá, around which the city of San Diego began to emerge in the 18th century. The Padres joined Major League Baseball in 1969 and kept the popular mascot. He was even on the team emblem until 1984. Wanting a more \"professional\" image, the owners introduced a more corporate logo. In 1996, he was brought back as a sleeve patch for the club's blue alternate jerseys, and though the team has changed its logo and colors since then, the Friar remains there to this day.\n\nThe Swinging Friar is a cartoon-like character, pudgy, balding, and always smiling. He is dressed as a friar with a tonsure, sandals, a dark hooded cloak, and a rope around the waist. He swings a baseball bat; but reportedly, in some years he swings left-handed, in other years he swings right-handed, he may be ambidextrous, or even a switch hitter. On home game Sundays, the Friar wears a special camouflage cloak as the team honors the military background of San Diego with similar uniforms. The Friar also rings a mission bell at home games immediately after a win.\n\nOriginally, The Swinging Friar was represented at the ballpark as a real man wearing a friar outfit. Since his return, the character has been a full mascot costume.\n\nSome in the past have confused The San Diego Chicken as the mascot of the Padres. Although he does make appearances occasionally at San Diego sporting events, he has never been the official mascot of any San Diego sports team.\n\nT. C. is the mascot for the Minnesota Twins. He was first introduced to Minnesota on April 3, 2000. T. C. is loosely modeled after the Hamm's Beer Bear, a mascot used in advertisements for Hamm's Brewery, an early sponsor for the Twins. The \"T. C.\" stands for the \"Twin Cities\", Minneapolis and St. Paul. Prior to T.C., the mascot for the Minnesota Twins 1980–81 was a loon named \"Twinkie\".\n\nWally the Green Monster is the official mascot for the Boston Red Sox. His name is derived from the Green Monster nickname of the wall in left field at Fenway Park. Wally debuted in 1997 to the chagrin of many older Red Sox fans, despite his popularity with children.\n\nAccording to the Red Sox promotions department, Wally was a huge Red Sox fan who, in 1947, decided to move inside the left field wall of Fenway Park, since it \"eats up\" hits that would easily be home runs at other parks. Apparently, he was very shy and lived the life of a hermit for 50 years. In 1997, on the 50th anniversary of the Green Monster being painted green, he came out of the manual scoreboard and has been interacting with players and fans ever since.\n\nWhen the team began to grow out their beards as a trademark during their 2013 World Series run, Wally was given a long beard as well.\n\nIn January 2016, the Red Sox unveiled a new mascot named Tessie, Wally the Green Monster's little sister. Tessie is named after the song \"Tessie\", which has long been associated with the Red Sox.\n\nThis is a list of former Major League Baseball mascots. Some of these mascots may still be used, but are not considered \"official\" mascots.\n\nAstrojack, an anthropomorphic rabbit, and Astrodillo, an anthropomorphic armadillo, were mascots for the Houston Astros in the 1980s. They wore the Astros' \"rainbow\" uniforms of that time, and were also the team's first mascots to circulate through the crowd. Before games and during breaks between innings, they would also race around the field on three-wheelers and perform skits with the Astrodome's house band, The Astronuts. The creator of Astrojack and Astrodillo, Logan Goodson, would go on to create a later Astros mascot, Junction Jack.\n\nBJ Birdy served as the official mascot for the Toronto Blue Jays from 1979 to 1999. He was ejected from a game in 1993 for \"showing up\" the umpire, after making gestures the umpire found offensive. He was replaced in 1999 with Ace and Diamond. BJ was created and played by the same person, Kevin Shanahan, for his entire 20-year career as the Jays' mascot. Shanahan lost 3 toes on his left foot in an automobile accident during the 1991 off season, but managed to return as the Jays mascot, missing only the first home game of the season.\n\nBonnie Brewer is a former official mascot for the Milwaukee Brewers, appearing at Milwaukee County Stadium from 1973 to 1979. Bonnie was portrayed as a young blonde woman in a gold blouse and short blue lederhosen, wearing a baseball cap and frequently carrying a blue-and-gold broom which she would use to sweep the bases.\n\nBonnie was first introduced as the female companion to the Brewers' mascot Bernie Brewer. Bernie and Bonnie were created by then-team vice president Dick Hackett as part of an effort to create a lively atmosphere at County Stadium, which also included hiring organist Frank Charles to play a Wurlitzer during the games. As Hackett remembers it, Bernie and Bonnie were added over the objections of team owner Bud Selig.\n\nBonnie was noted mainly for her colorful antics during the seventh-inning stretch. As the grounds crew swept the infield, Bonnie wielded her signature broom, sweeping off each base in turn. After sweeping third base, she would playfully swat the opposing team's third-base coach on the backside with her broom, following it up with a kiss on his cheek.\n\nBonnie was discontinued after the 1979 season, although no clear reason has ever been given for her \"firing\". Bernie Brewer was discontinued as a mascot in 1984, although he was brought back as a costumed mascot in 1993, complete with full-body costume and large foam head. Bonnie Brewer returned as part of the nostalgia-heavy final home stand at County Stadium, September 18–28, 2000. , Bonnie is part of the Brewers' \"Retro Fridays\" promotions at Miller Park, incorporating the traditional base sweeping as well as dancing with Bernie on Bernie's Dugout during the fans' singing of the \"Beer Barrel Polka\" in the seventh inning stretch.\n\nThe Braves Bleacher Creature was a mascot for the Atlanta Braves major league baseball team during the late 1970s. It featured green shaggy fur with a Braves cap and logo on top. The word Braves was written across its chest in big red letters. It had a permanent toothless smile. The mascot usually roamed the stands from time to time during home games and was intended more for the entertainment of younger fans.\n\nThe mascot was costumed by Alan Stensland, then a student at Georgia Tech. Stensland was working as an usher at Atlanta Fulton County Stadium when he was approached to wear the costume. The outfit required someone who was 5\"8\" to 5'10\" tall, and Alen met the height and shoe size requirements. Alen recalls having one of his costume's eyes removed by a youngster on his first night out. They also attempted to bust his kneecaps on bat night. During the 1977 season, the mascot made some 250 appearances at games, parties, and parades.\n\nStensland was only 18 at the time he first donned the costume. The most intense problem he had was the heat. With the added humidity, a really \"funky smell\" permeated the inside of the costume. Once Stensland graduated, he left the Braves organization, and the mascot was discontinued. The other Braves mascot, Chief Noc-A-Homa, continued on for several more years.\n\nCharlie-O the Mule was the mascot used by the Kansas City Athletics and Oakland A's from 1963 to 1976. The mule was named after their colorful owner at that time, Charles O. Finley.\n\nWhen the A's moved to then heavily Democratic Missouri, where the official state animal is the mule, Warren Hearnes gave a mule to Finley for his barnyard menagerie at Municipal Stadium which also include sheep and goats that scampered up the hill behind right field. The Municipal Stadium menagerie also included Warpaint, the horse mascot of the Kansas City Chiefs. As questions swirled about whether Finley would be loyal to Missouri, he embraced the mule and removed the elephant from the A's logo and changed the A's colors from blue, red and white to green, gold, and white.\n\nFinley took the sorrel mule around the country, walking him into cocktail parties and hotel lobbies, and on one occasion even into the press room after a large feeding to annoy reporters.\n\nIn April 1977 the Houston Astros introduced their very first mascot, Chester Charge. Chester Charge was a 45-pound costume of a cartoon Texas cavalry soldier on a horse. Chester appeared on the field at the beginning of each home game, during the seventh inning stretch and then ran around the bases at the conclusion of each win. At the blast of a bugle, the scoreboard would light up and the audience would yell, \"Charge!\" The first Chester Charge was played by Steve Ross who was then an 18-year-old Senior High School student. The creation of Chester Charge and the (incredible for its day) scoreboard graphics were created by Ed Henderson.\n\nChief Noc-A-Homa was the original mascot of the Atlanta Braves from the 1950s until 1986. The name was used for the \"laughing Indian\" sleeve patch worn on Braves jerseys. From at least the early 1960s, while still in Milwaukee County Stadium, until the early 1980s at Atlanta's Fulton County Stadium, this mascot \"lived\" in a teepee in an unoccupied section of the bleacher seats.\n\nThe teepee was involved in a bit of controversy in 1982 when the Braves, who were in first place in the National League West at the time, elected to remove the chief's home to provide more seating for the fans. The team dropped out of first when they lost 19 of 21 games after the removal. The teepee was returned to its spot and the team won the division.\n\nOpposition to Native American mascots caused the Braves to retire Chief Noc-A-Homa and eventually replace him with Homer The Brave.\n\nThe Crazy Crab was a mascot of the San Francisco Giants for the 1984 season. As opposed to other mascots, Crazy Crab was meant as an \"anti-mascot\", satirizing on the mascot craze that was going on at the time. Fans were encouraged to boo the mascot (played by actor Wayne Doba) and manager Frank Robinson appeared in a commercial with the crustacean where Robinson was restrained from attacking him. This encouragement may have worked too well, as Giants fans regularly threw various dangerous objects at Crazy Crab, including beer bottles and batteries, and Crazy Crab's suit had to be reinforced with a fiberglass shell for protection. The crab was so hated, players on both the Giants and even the opposition would throw rosin bags and other objects at the mascot. Doba sued the San Diego Padres after two of their players (Kurt Bevacqua and Bruce Bochy) tackled him, causing injuries. The mascot lasted only one year and the Giants would not have another mascot until Lou Seal in 1996. The crab returned for the last game at Candlestick Park that the Giants played in 1999, and a bobblehead was given away with its likeness July 18, 2008 as the franchise celebrated its fiftieth anniversary in the Bay Area. There is even a website devoted to bringing back the Crazy Crab called Rehab The Crab and now a Crazy Crab sandwich at AT&T Park. In 2014, Colin Hanks directed \"The Anti-Mascot\", an ESPN \"30 for 30\" short about Crazy Crab. On July 7, 2018, the Crazy Crab made its AT&T Park debut in honor of the Giants' Crazy Crab scarf giveaway.\n\nDandy was a short-lived mascot of the New York Yankees. He was a large pinstriped bird-like mascot that sported a Yankees hat. He had a mustache that gave him an appearance similar to that of former Yankee pitcher Sparky Lyle. His name was a play on the classic American folk song \"Yankee Doodle Dandy\". He appeared at the start of the 1980 season and was so unpopular that he was quickly canceled. Dandy was beaten up by fans who didn't want a mascot, and quit, leading to the elimination of the character as the Yankees chose not to replace him.\n\nAlong with this experiment, the Yankees briefly had mascots resembling ballpark food (plus Yankees hats on top) during the mid-1990s. Outside of these two occasions, the Yankees have not had an official mascot or cheerleading squad roam the stands or perform on the field, although the late Freddy Schuman has served as an unofficial promoter in the stands for decades, and a squirrel appearing on the field has brought inspiration as a mascot for the team.\n\nGeneral Admission (a pun on the unreserved $4 seating section of the Astrodome) was a mascot for the Houston Astros in the mid-to-late 1990s. He was played by a middle-aged white male, who is now the Senior Director of Guest Services for the Houston Astros, and wore a traditional U.S. Cavalry uniform complete with gold stars he would affix to his uniform for every Astros home run hit in the dome. Whenever an Astro hit a home run, General Admission would fire a cannon from his outfield platform (that would often scare those seated near him). He was \"killed off\" at the end of the 1999 season when the Astros main mascot, Orbit, had him zapped by an alien ray gun on the penultimate game of the regular season.\n\nHomer was the mascot of the Atlanta Braves. He had a baseball shaped head, and looked a little like Mr. Met. Before having the baseball head however, Homer was the personification of the old \"Screaming Warrior\" logo the Braves used before dropping it in 1988.\n\nHomer's full name was Homer the Brave. This was meant to sound like \"home of the brave\", the last words of the national anthem. Incidentally, \"homer\" was also the longtime nickname for a home run.\n\nJunction Jack was the mascot character for the Houston Astros from 2000 until 2012. He was a rabbit dressed as a railroad engineer. His \"relatives\" were Junction Julie and Junction Jesse, although they were not certified official mascots by the Astros.\n\nJunction Jack replaced Orbit when the team moved from the Astrodome to Minute Maid Park. The new stadium was originally called \"The Ballpark at Union Station\" because it was built on the site of the historic railway station in downtown Houston. In keeping with this new theme for the Astros, Orbit was replaced by the engineer. The character was designed by Logan Goodson and named by Duone Byars, both former Astros employees.\n\nAfter the 2012 season, Junction Jack, Julie, and Jesse were retired, with Orbit returning to his former place as the Astros mascot on November 2, 2012. Orbit's return coincided with the Astros' move to the American League West as well as their new uniforms, caps, and logo.\n\nLarry, a Bull Terrier, was the mascot for the in the 1910s, cared for by player Jack Graney.\n\nBefore their retirement in 2014, Lefty and Righty were each a large, red sock with arms, and before Tessie the Green Monster's introduction in 2016, were the alternate mascot characters for the Boston Red Sox through the 2014 MLB season, joining Wally the Green Monster. They were seen on large outings with Wally such as the 2007 World Series Parade as well as weekend afternoon games at Fenway Park.\nMettle the Mule was a mascot of the New York Mets for a short time starting in 1976. Originally named Arthur, Mettle was renamed as a result of a fan contest. Mettle was kept in a pen near the Mets' bullpen in the right field of Shea Stadium.\n\nPhiladelphia Phil and Philadelphia Phillis served as mascots for the Phillies during the 1970s (1971–79). Their costumes invoked the city's revolutionary spirit from 1776. The pair reappeared with their replacement—the Phanatic—as the Phillies celebrated their final year at Veterans Stadium in 2003, including the final opening day and final game.\n\nRally was one of the Atlanta Braves mascots. He was a bear-like mascot and looked like Wally the Green Monster.\n\nRibbie and Roobarb were a pair of mascots used by the Chicago White Sox from 1981 to 1988 at Comiskey Park. After the Sox were sold in 1981 by Bill Veeck to an ownership group headed by Jerry Reinsdorf and Eddie Einhorn, the new owners, who were eager to draw on the 1970s popularity of such mascots as The San Diego Chicken, hired the design firm responsible for creating the Phillie Phanatic to create a new mascot for the Sox.\n\nThey debuted the pair of furry mascots in September 1981, but the fans never accepted the two, ridiculing them throughout their tenure with the team—both because of their ludicrous appearance, which had no apparent connection with the team, and also because they were seen as an attempt to eliminate Andy the Clown, who had performed unofficially at Sox games since 1960. \"Rhubarb\" is longtime baseball slang for a heated on-field argument; Ribbie comes from the acronym RBI, for runs batted in. Often reports will say ribbie instead of RBI to describe it.\n\nAfter another failed mascot in the early 1990s was Waldo the White Sox Wolf. The White Sox introduced a new mascot, Southpaw, in 2003.\n\nScoop and Clutch were mascots for the Anaheim Angels in the 1990s. The pair were bears wearing Angels uniforms complete with halos and wings for some time. They disappeared and were effectively replaced by the Rally Monkey in the 2002 season.\n\nSouki was the mascot of the Montreal Expos, for only one season (1978), a figure in an Expos uniform with a giant baseball for a head. It was a variation of the popular mascot of the New York Mets called Mr. Met, but with one difference. The Expos' Mr. Met, called Souki, had odd antennas sticking out the sides of his head. He looked like something from outer space and the kids were afraid of him. During a game in late fall, a father attacked Souki after his child was afraid of him (and after a loss).\n\nTwinkie was used by the Minnesota Twins for two seasons 1980 and 1981.\n\nYouppi! was the mascot of the Montreal Expos, before the franchise moved to Washington as the Washington Nationals. He is an orange furry creature with a white face originally leased in 1979 and designed by Bonnie Erickson, formerly a designer for some of Jim Henson's Muppets characters. Youppi! was so named resembling the phrase \"Yippee!\" or \"Hooray!\" in French. Youppi! was the first mascot to be thrown out of a Major League Baseball game: on August 23, 1989, in the 11th inning, while atop the visitors' dugout, Youppi! took a running leap, landing hard and noisily on its roof, and then sneaked into a front row seat. Los Angeles Dodgers manager Tommy Lasorda complained to the umpires and Youppi! was ejected, though he later returned, confined to the home team's dugout roof. Youppi! was abandoned as a mascot after the Expos franchise moved to Washington in 2005, but was adopted by the NHL's Montreal Canadiens team on September 16, 2005, as potentially the first sports mascot to switch their allegiance from one sport to another, while remaining in the same city.\n\nThe following MLB teams do not currently have an official mascot:\n\n\nThe \"Build-A-Bear Workshop\" Make-Your-Own-Phanatic store, at Citizens Bank Park, was the first store of its kind in sports. Fans are invited to buy and stuff a Phillie Phanatic doll and dress it up. Following the 2010 season, the Build-A- Bear in Philadelphia was discontinued. Similar shops have since been set up in Cincinnati (Great American Ball Park), Cleveland (Progressive Field), St. Louis (Busch Stadium), San Francisco (AT&T Park), and Washington, D.C. (Nationals Park). The Milwaukee Brewers also have in their main team store at Miller Park a whole section of their store consisting entirely of merchandise featuring the Racing Sausages, called The Meat Locker.\n\n"}
{"id": "33950934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33950934", "title": "Mill Branch site", "text": "Mill Branch site\n\nThe Mill Branch archaeological site is located in Warren County, Georgia west of Augusta and south of Thomson. It is located in the Brier Creek watershed. A reservoir was deemed necessary to assist in kaolin processing during times of drought. For this project to commence, a permit was needed from the Corps of Engineers, which required a cultural resource impact study to first be done. J.M. Huber Corporation contracted Southeastern Archaeological Services to do an initial survey of the area in 1988 with additional data recovery in 1990. J.M Huber Corporation determined that two sites surveyed by Southeastern Archaeological Services, specifically 9WR4 and 9WR11, could not be avoided or preserved. Huber no longer owns this property. These two sites were excavated between April 23 and May 31, 1990. The field report, \"Archaeological Investigations at Mill Branch Sites 9WR4 and 9WR11 Warren County, Georgia\", was published in 1995 and compiled by R. Jerald Ledbetter.\n\nSite 9WR4 was located on the west bank of Brier Creek with the northern boundary set by Little Brier Creek. The site measured about 1.20 hectares in size. 9WR4 was divided into northern, southern, and southeastern areas due to topography. \nThis site was excavated in all three sections using heavy machinery in conjunction with manual spadework. A smooth bucket backhoe was used to excavate a total of eighteen trenches as well as a 20 m x 20 m block and a 25 m x 25 m block. The trenches were then cleaned and smoothed by hand trowel. \nArtifacts emphasizing the Early Archaic, Middle Archaic, Early Woodland, and Middle Woodland periods were identified. Five types of features were found throughout 9WR4: unlined midden pits, rock lined midden pits, rock clusters, post molds, and an early dwelling.\n\nA feature described as \"the single most important discovery on 9WR4\" was found in the southern section. This feature was a Late Archaic midden filled pit house. Charcoal found in the hearth was radiocarbon dated to 1900-1950 B.C. The distribution of artifacts suggested that the artifacts were accumulated over time, and not used as fill after abandonment of the dwelling. \nThis large rectangular feature measured about 5m x 4m x 35 cm and had a volume of about 5650 liters. There was no evidence of multiple structures present at one time.\n\nSite 9WR11 was located to the south of 9WR4 and just across Mill Branch which forms the northern border of the site. The site measured to about 1.20 hectares making this site about the same size as 9WR4, but due to a mature hardwood presence, fewer blocks were excavated. \nThis site was surveyed using a systematic series of shovel tests, and then heavy machinery was used to clear four trenches to a maximum depth of 40 cm except for Trench 1 which was dug to a maximum of 1.2 m. A smooth backhoe was used to create the trenches, and they were all 3 m wide and ranged in length from 9 m - 22.5 m. Trench 3 was expanded into an excavation block. \n9WR11 was a Late Archaic primary lithic workshop site. The majority of the artifacts found were lithic. Some pottery was found from later periods suggesting that the site may have been used as a secondary workshop in later periods.\n"}
{"id": "42815120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42815120", "title": "Once Bitten (Family Guy)", "text": "Once Bitten (Family Guy)\n\n\"Once Bitten\" is the sixteenth episode of the thirteenth season of the animated sitcom \"Family Guy\", and the 246th episode overall. It aired on Fox in the United States on April 19, 2015, and is written by Anthony Blasucci and directed by Joseph Lee.\n\nBrian becomes ill and is taken to the vet. His problem is determined to be due to his drinking and he is given medicine. When Peter tries to give Brian his medicine, which must be administered via a suppository, Brian draws the line and refuses. Peter tries to at first outsmart him and then uses force, causing Brian to bite him.\n\nPeter's fear of Brian causes him to become insufferable, until his cowering forces Lois to have Brian sent to obedience school as punishment. When Brian disrespects the instructor, he is severely psychologically tortured and abused, breaking him. Brian returns home completely submissive, to everyone's surprise. When Brian brings home a drunken Peter, his proposed stunt of peeing in Meg's bed horrifies Brian with the thought of being a bad dog, leaving Peter to drunkenly realize that he misses his old friend.\n\nThe next day, Peter takes his observations to Lois who dismisses his concerns since he was bitten. This gives Peter the idea to stick his finger in Brian's rectum which causes him to bite, returning him to his normal self. They agree to let things return to normal as they agree to go pee in Meg's bed together.\n\nMeanwhile, school nerd Neil Goldman cozies up to Chris, and he later comes over to visit and gets invited to help Meg with her homework. The next day, Chris finds that Neil is still hanging out with Meg instead of him and confronts him, where he admits that it was his plan all along, leaving Chris feeling heartbroken. Later that night, Neil and Meg go to see a movie. When they start to kiss, Meg's face transforms into an angry Chris, leaving Neil feeling guilty. He runs to Chris' bedroom where he uses a boombox to wake him, and he pleads to be friends with him again as Meg chews him out for dropping her when she gave him a chance. Chris agrees to be his friend again.\n\nThe title references to the Jim Carrey film of the same name. The character of the obedience school drill instructor is a reference to Louis Gossett Jr.'s character in the 1982 film \"An Officer and a Gentleman\". The scene of Brian in the chair is a parody of a similar scene in \"A Clockwork Orange\", complete with the \"Ode to Joy\" from Beethoven's 9th symphony. The \"Don't Get Shot by a Bullet\" ad is a parody of the \"Let's All Go to the Lobby\" movie ad from the 1950s. The song references such shootings such as one in Aurora, CO in 2012 that killed 12 people and left 20 injured. Neil holding a boombox out Chris' window is a parody of a scene from \"Say Anything…\"\n\nThe episode received an audience of 3.30 million, making it the second most watched show on Fox that night after \"The Last Man on Earth\". Narsimha Chintaluri of \"TV Fanatic\" gave the episode 3.8/5 stars.\n\n"}
{"id": "3103351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3103351", "title": "Parfums Caron", "text": "Parfums Caron\n\nParfums Caron is a French perfume house, established by Ernest Daltroff (1867–1941) in 1903.\n\nFounded in 1903 by Ernest Daltroff, Parfums Caron has a rich heritage in perfumery and is still considered a true fragrance house, a distinction very few companies hold. Caron is one of the great Paris houses to still remain entirely devoted to fragrance and one of the last perfume houses to still have an in-house 'nose' (Monsieur Fraysse) - also called a master perfumer. It is the only perfume house that is perfume led, not fashion led.\n\nParfums Caron is a French perfume house founded by Ernest Daltroff in 1903. With no formal training as a perfumer, but with a love for perfume instilled by his mother and a very talented nose, Daltroff set about creating what would go on to be one of the most enduring and beloved perfumes houses in the history of the fragrance industry.\n\nThe story of Parfums Caron is a story of secret love. Daltroff hired a former dressmaker, Felicie Wanpouille, to be the company's artistic adviser. Wanpouille oversaw the company's bottle design and packaging, and played an integral part in the company's success. Wanpouille was Daltroff's muse, and Daltroff was rumored to be smitten with her but never formally declared his love for her. The pair's great success and tremendous ambition, as well as the emotional undercurrents in their personal and professional relationship, resulted in some of the 20th century's most innovative and beloved perfumes.\n\nNarcisse Noir (1911) was the first scent from the house to gain notoriety. This iconic fragrance was later immortalized in the film \"Sunset Boulevard,\" cradled in the hands of screen siren Gloria Swanson. N'Aimez Que Moi (\"Love No One But Me\") is said by some to be a secret expression of affection between Daltroff and Wanpouille. (Its 1916 release also made it appropriate for soldiers to give their sweethearts as a forget-me-not.) Tabac Blond, introduced in 1919, was designed for the new style of woman emerging at the time, one who wasn't afraid to flaunt social conventions of the day by smoking cigarettes in public. Narcisse Noir also featured as Black Narcissus in the novel by Rumer Godden and subsequent film of that name.\n\nMany are not as familiar with the other great product of this perfume house, a finely milled luxury face powder, first introduced in the 1930s and still available today. The powder's manufacturing process is a closely guarded secret.\n\nWith World War II and the Nazis approaching, Daltroff, who was Jewish, fled to America to escape persecution, leaving Caron in Wanpouille's very capable hands. Daltroff never returned to Europe and died in 1947.\n\nWanpouille kept the house going, introducing new perfumes in collaboration with other perfumers and overseeing operations until her own death in 1967.\n\nPatrick Alès purchased Caron in 1998; Romain Alès runs the company today.\n\nThe house of Caron is unique in that it continues to offer the original creations of Ernest Daltroff, many of which are still produced in the same or similar packaging today. Alongside the classic creations are the fragrances of Caron's in-house perfumer for more than 30 years, Richard Fraysse.\n\nCaron is also notable for offering beautiful refillable bottles of every size, with fragrances dispensed from beautiful Baccarat crystal fountains.\n\nDesigner Caron has 49 perfumes in their fragrance base. Caron is an old perfume house. The earliest edition was created in 1911 and the newest is from 2013. Caron fragrances were made in collaboration with perfumers Dominique Ropion, Ernest Daltroff, Richard Fraysse, Gerard Lefort, Michel Morsetti and Jean-Pierre Bethouart.\n\nCaron is the second oldest Parisian perfume house in history at 109 years and counting. They now are continuing their masterpieces for a new generation called La Selection which has debuted this year (2013). Five new fantastic fragrances to showcase their rich heritage and vision of the modern elegant woman: My Ylang, Piu Bellodgia, Parcfum Sacre, Noctures and Aimez Moi.\n\n"}
{"id": "7940626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7940626", "title": "Passion in the Desert", "text": "Passion in the Desert\n\nPassion in the Desert, or Simoom: A Passion in the Desert, is a 1997 film from director Lavinia Currier based on the short story \"A Passion in the Desert\" by Honoré de Balzac. The film follows the ventures of a young French officer named Augustin Robert (Ben Daniels) in late 18th-century Egypt during Napoleon Bonaparte's campaign to capture the country.\n\nIn 1798, Napoleon I has launched an invasion of Egypt. A frail and elderly artist, Jean-Michel Venture de Paradis (Michel Piccoli), has been commissioned by Napoleon to sketch the landscape and monuments of Egypt. French soldier Augustin Robert (Ben Daniels) has been assigned to keep Venture from being harassed by the other soldiers, but the unrelenting burden of this task soon takes its toll on Augustin. Mameluks attack the regiment's small encampment. In the aftermath, Augustin and Venture are now separated from their regiment. Walking in the arid landscape, under the blaze of the desert sun, they begin to suffer an unquenchable thirst, and Augustin is infuriated when the artist uses the last of their water to mix his paints.\n\nAugustin abandons Venture, who cannot keep up, but promises to return with aid. Venture, unable to believe that Augustin will return, commits suicide. Augustin wanders aimlessly on his own. His thirst compels him to steal water from native Bedouins, frightening a young woman who startles him in her tent. Several Bedouin men give chase in response, and he flees to some nearby caves where he is trapped until a leopard, appearing out of nowhere, slays a Bedouin who is about to kill him.\n\nAugustin is terrified at first, then astonished when the leopard gives him food and leads him to water. Augustin and the leopard, whom he names \"Simoom,\" develop a strange and mysterious relationship, and he begins to mirror her behavior, living in the ruins of a lost city near the caves. Stripping naked, he paints his body with dirt and sand, seeking to resemble her golden-brown fur and its rosette-shaped markings. For a while, they are suspicious and competitive toward each other, but a bond has nevertheless been formed. Augustin finds himself jealous when Simoom goes to mate with another leopard, but she later returns to him.\n\nThe bond between Augustin and Simoom is then tested. He saves her from a group of lost French soldiers, who have wandered by and are aiming to kill her for food. Augustin, however, ultimately decides to return to his regiment rather than be branded a deserter or traitor. He dresses again in what is left of his uniform and bicorne and ties Simoon to a pole, but she escapes. Simoom, enraged by his attempted departure, charges and pounces upon him. He is forced to kill the leopard in self-defense.\n\nWounded by Simoom and suffering intense heat and thirst, Augustin collapses before he is able to find his way back to civilization. On the brink of death, he is rescued by a passing Arab on a camel, and returned to his regiment.\n\nFilming took place in Jordan and the ruins in Petra. Director Lavinia Currier invested 5 million USD of her own money in addition to writing and producing the film. Currier used animals that were chosen at birth to be raised with enough human interaction, thereby making the process of filming scenes with the leopard much easier. Despite this, there were some close calls during the making of the movie with actor Ben Daniels. Daniels reportedly almost got bitten by the leopard. Prior to filming, Daniels spent time with a Bedouin family out in the Wadi Rum to develop a feel for the environment, something that would assist him in his acting.\n\nThe follow-up Passion in the Desert film soundtrack was released in conjunction with the film on June 16, 1998 . Composers José Nieto and Hamza El Din compiled up to 17 tracks altogether. A DVD version of the film was released in December 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "504807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=504807", "title": "Public address system", "text": "Public address system\n\nA public address system (PA system) is an electronic system comprising microphones, amplifiers, loudspeakers, and related equipment. It increases the apparent volume (loudness) of a human voice, musical instrument, or other acoustic sound source or recorded sound or music. PA systems are used in any public venue that requires that an announcer, performer, etc. be sufficiently audible at a distance or over a large area. Typical applications include sports stadiums, public transportation vehicles and facilities, and live or recorded music venues and events. A PA system may include multiple microphones or other sound sources, a mixing console to combine and modify multiple sources, and multiple amplifiers and loudspeakers for louder volume or wider distribution.\n\nSimple PA systems are often used in small venues such as school auditoriums, churches, and small bars. PA systems with many speakers are widely used to make announcements in public, institutional and commercial buildings and locations—such as schools, stadiums, and passenger vessels and aircraft. Intercom systems, installed in many buildings, have both speakers throughout a building, and microphones in many rooms so occupants can respond to announcements. PA and Intercom systems are commonly used as part of an emergency communication system.\n\nThe term, \"sound reinforcement system\" generally means a PA system specifically for live music or performance. In Britain any PA system is sometimes colloquially referred to as a Tannoy, after the company of that name now owned by TC Electronic Group, which supplied a great many of the PA systems used previously in Britain.\n\nFrom the Ancient Greek era to the nineteenth century, before the invention of electric loudspeakers and amplifiers, megaphone cones were used by people speaking to a large audience, to make their voice project more to a large space or group. Megaphones are typically portable, usually hand-held, cone-shaped acoustic horns used to amplify a person’s voice or other sounds and direct it towards a given direction. The sound is introduced into the narrow end of the megaphone, by holding it up to the face and speaking into it. The sound projects out the wide end of the cone. The user can direct the sound by pointing the wide end of the cone in a specific direction. In the 2010s, cheerleading is one of the few fields where a nineteenth century-style cone is still used to project the voice. The device is also called “speaking-trumpet”, “bullhorn” or “loud hailer”.\n\nIn 1910, the Automatic Electric Company of Chicago, Illinois, already a major supplier of automatic telephone switchboards, announced it had developed a loudspeaker, which it marketed under the name of the \"Automatic Enunciator\". Company president Joseph Harris foresaw multiple potential uses, and the original publicity stressed the value of the invention as a hotel public address system, allowing people in all public rooms to hear announcements. In June 1910, an initial \"semi-public\" demonstration was given to newspaper reporters at the Automatic Electric Company building, where a speaker's voice was transmitted to loudspeakers placed in a dozen locations \"all over the building\".\n\nA short time later, the Automatic Enunciator Company formed in Chicago order to market the new device, and a series of promotional installations followed. In August 1912 a large outdoor installation was made at a water carnival held in Chicago by the Associated Yacht and Power Boat Clubs of America. Seventy-two loudspeakers were strung in pairs at forty-foot (12 meter) intervals along the docks, spanning a total of one-half mile (800 meters) of grandstands. The system was used to announce race reports and descriptions, carry a series of speeches about \"The Chicago Plan\", and provide music between races.\n\nIn 1913, multiple units were installed throughout the Comiskey Park baseball stadium in Chicago, both to make announcements and to provide musical interludes, with Charles A. Comiskey quoted as saying: \"The day of the megaphone man has passed at our park.\" The company also set up an experimental service, called the Musolaphone, that was used to transmitted news and entertainment programming to home and business subscribers in south-side Chicago, but this effort was short-lived. The company continued to market the enunciators for making announcements in establishments such as hospitals, department stores, factories, and railroad stations, although the Automatic Enunciator Company was dissolved in 1926.\n\nEdwin Jensen and Peter Pridham of Magnavox began experimenting with sound reproduction in the 1910s. Working from a laboratory in Napa, California, they filed the first patent for a moving coil loudspeaker in 1911. Four years later, in 1915, they built a dynamic loudspeaker with a voice coil, a corrugated diaphragm and a horn measuring with a aperture. The electromagnet created a flux field of approximately 11,000 Gauss.\n\nTheir first experiment used a carbon microphone. When the 12 V battery was connected to the system, they experienced one of the first examples of acoustic feedback, a typically unwanted effect often characterized by high-pitched sounds. They then placed the loudspeaker on the laboratory's roof, and claims say that the amplified human voice could be heard away. Jensen and Pridham refined the system and connected a phonograph to the loudspeaker so it could broadcast recorded music. They did this on a number of occasions, including once at the Napa laboratory, at the Panama–Pacific International Exposition, and on December 24, 1915 at San Francisco City Hall alongside Mayor James Rolph. This demonstration was official presentation of the working system, and approximately 100,000 people gathered to hear Christmas music and speeches \"with absolute distinctness\".\n\nThe first outside broadcast was made one week later, again supervised by Jensen and Pridham. On December 30, when Governor of California Hiram Johnson was too ill to give a speech in person, loudspeakers were installed at the Civic Auditorium in San Francisco, connected to Johnson's house some miles away by cable and a microphone, from where he delivered his speech. Jensen oversaw the governor using the microphone while Pridham operated the loudspeaker.\n\nThe following year, Jensen and Pridham applied for a patent for what they called their \"Sound Magnifying Phonograph\". Over the next two years they developed their first valve amplifier. In 1919 this was standardized as a 3-stage 25 watt amplifier.\n\nThis system was used by former US president William Howard Taft at a speech in Grant Park, Chicago, and first used by a current president when Woodrow Wilson addressed 50,000 people in San Diego, California. Wilson's speech was part of his nationwide tour to promote the establishment of the League of Nations. It was held on September 9, 1919 at City Stadium. As with the San Francisco installation, Jensen supervised the microphone and Pridham the loudspeakers. Wilson spoke into two large horns mounted on his platform, which channelled his voice into the microphone. Similar systems were used in the following years by Warren G. Harding and Franklin D. Roosevelt.\n\nBy the early 1920s, Marconi had established a department dedicated to public address and began producing loudspeakers and amplifiers to match a growing demand. In 1925, George V used such a system at the British Empire Exhibition, addressing 90,000 via six long-range loudspeakers. This public use of loudspeakers brought attention to the possibilities of such technology. The 1925 Royal Air Force Pageant at Hendon Aerodrome used a Marconi system to allow the announcer to address the crowds, as well as amplify the band. In 1929, the Schneider Trophy race at Calshot Spit used a public address system that had 200 horns, weighing a total of 20 tons.\n\nEngineers invented the first loud, powerful amplifier and speaker systems for public address systems and movie theaters. These large PA systems and movie theatre sound systems were very large and very expensive, and so they could not be used by most touring musicians. After 1927, smaller, portable AC mains-powered PA systems that could be plugged into a regular wall socket \"quickly became popular with musicians\"; indeed, \"...Leon McAuliffe (with Bob Wills) still used a carbon mic and a portable PA as late as 1935.\" During the late 1920s to mid-1930s, small portable PA systems and guitar combo amplifiers were fairly similar. These early amps had a \"single volume control and one or two input jacks, field coil speakers\" and thin wooden cabinets; remarkably, these early amps did not have tone controls or even an on-off switch. Portable PA systems you could plug into wall sockets appeared in the early 1930s when the introduction of electrolytic capacitors and rectifier tubes enabled economical built-in power supplies that could plug into wall outlets. Previously, amplifiers required heavy multiple battery packs.\n\nIn the 1960s, an electric-amplified version of the megaphone, which used a loudspeaker, amplifier and a folded horn, largely replaced the basic cone-style megaphone. Small handheld, battery-powered electric megaphones are used by fire and rescue personnel, police, protesters, and people addressing outdoor audiences. With many small handheld models, the microphone is mounted at the back end of the device, and the user holds the megaphone in front of her/his mouth to use it, and presses a trigger to turn on the amplifier and loudspeaker. Larger electric megaphones may have a microphone attached by a cable, which enables a person to speak without having their face obscured by the flared horn.\n\nThe simplest, smallest PA systems consist of a microphone, an amplifier, and one or more loudspeakers. PA systems of this type, often providing 50 to 200 watts of power, are often used in small venues such as school auditoriums, churches, and coffeehouse stages. Small PA systems may extend to an entire building, such as a restaurant, store, elementary school or office building. A sound source such as a compact disc player or radio may be connected to a PA system so that music can be played through the system. Smaller, battery-powered 12 volt systems may be installed in vehicles such as tour buses or school buses, so that the tour guide and/or driver can speak to all the passengers. Portable systems may be battery powered and/or powered by plugging the system into an electric wall socket. These may also be used for by people addressing smaller groups such as information sessions or team meetings. Battery-powered systems can be used by guides who are speaking to clients on walking tours.\n\nPublic address systems consist of input sources (microphones, sound playback devicrs, etc.), amplifiers, control and monitoring equipment (e.g., LED indicator lights, VU meters, headphones), and loudspeakers. Usual input include microphones for speech or singing, direct inputs from musical instruments, and a recorded sound playback device. In non-performance applications, there may be a system that operators or automated equipment uses to select from a number of standard prerecorded messages. These input sources feed into preamplifiers and signal routers that direct the audio signal to selected zones of a facility (e.g., only to one section of a school). The preamplified signals then pass into the amplifiers. Depending on local practices, these amplifiers usually amplify the audio signals to 50V, 70V, or 100V speaker line level. Control equipment monitors the amplifiers and speaker lines for faults before it reaches the loudspeakers. This control equipment is also used to separate zones in a PA system. The loudspeaker converts electrical signals into sound.\n\nSome PA systems have speakers that cover more than one building, extending to an entire campus of a college, office or industrial site, or an entire outdoor complex (e.g., an athletic stadium). A large PA system may also be used as an alert system during an emergency.\n<br>\n<br>\nPA systems by size and subwoofer approach\n\nSome private branch exchange (PBX) telephone systems use a paging facility that acts as a liaison between the telephone and a PA amplifier. In other systems, paging equipment is not built into the telephone system. Instead the system includes a separate paging controller connected to a trunk port of the telephone system. The paging controller is accessed as either a designated directory number or central office line. In many modern systems, the paging function is integrated into the telephone system, so the system can send announcements to the phone speakers.\n\nMany retailers and offices choose to use the telephone system as the sole access point for the paging system, because the features are integrated. Many schools and other larger institutions are no longer using the large, bulky microphone PA systems and have switched to telephone system paging, as it can be accessed from many different points in the school.\n\n\"PA over IP\" refers to PA paging and intercom systems that use an Internet Protocol (IP) network, instead of a central amplifier, to distribute the audio signal to paging locations across a building or campus, or anywhere else in the reach of the IP network, including the Internet. Network-attached amplifiers and intercom units are used to provide the communication function. At the transmission end, a computer application transmits a digital audio stream via the local area network, using audio from the computer's sound card inputs or from stored audio recordings. At the receiving end, either specialized intercom modules (sometimes known as IP speakers) receive these network transmissions and reproduce the analog audio signal. These are small, specialized network appliances addressable by an IP address, just like any other computer on the network.\n\n\"Wireless Mobile Telephony (WMT) PA Systems\" refers to PA paging and [intercom] systems that use any form of Wireless mobile telephony system such as GSM networks instead of a centralized amplifier to distribute the audio signal to paging locations across a building or campus, or other location. The GSM mobile Networks are used to provide the communication function. At the transmission end, a PSTN Telephone, mobile phone, VOIP phone or any other communication device that can access and make audio calls to a GSM based mobile SIM card can communicate with it. At the receiving end, a GSM transceiver receives these network transmissions and reproduce the analogue audio signal via a Power Amplifier and speaker. This was pioneered by Stephen Robert Pearson of Lancashire, England who was granted patents for the systems, which also incorporate control functionality. Using a WMT (GSM) network means that live announcements can be made to anywhere in the world where there is WMT connectivity. The patents cover all forms of WMT i.e., 2G, 3G, 4G ... xxG. A UK company called Remvox Ltd (REMote VOice eXperience) has been appointed under license to develop and manufacture products based on the technology.\n\nA Long-Line Public Address (LLPA) system is any public address system with a distributed architecture, normally across a wide geographic area. Systems of this type are commonly found in the rail, light rail, and metro industries, and let announcements be triggered from one or several locations to the rest of the network over low bandwidth legacy copper, normally PSTN lines using DSL modems, or media such as optical fiber, or GSM-R, or IP-based networks.\n\nRail systems typically have an interface with a passenger information system (PIS) server, at each station. These are linked to train describers, which state the location of rolling stock on the network from sensors on trackside signaling equipment. The PIS invokes a stored message to play from a local or remote digital voice announcement system, or a series of message fragments to assemble in the correct order, for example: \" / the / 23.30 / First_Great_Western / Night_Riviera_sleeper_service / from / London_Paddington / to / Penzance / ... / will depart from platform / one / this train is formed of / 12_carriages /.\" Messages are routed via an IP network and are played on local amplification equipment. Taken together, the PA, routing, DVA, passenger displays and PIS interface are referred to as the \"customer information system (CIS)\", a term often used interchangeably with \"passenger information system\".\n\nSmall clubs, bars and coffeehouses use a fairly simple set-up, with front of house speaker cabinets (and subwoofers, in some cases) aimed at the audience, and monitor speaker cabinets aimed back at the performers so they can hear their vocals and instruments. In many cases, front of house speakers are elevated, either by mounting them on poles or by \"flying\" them from anchors in the ceiling. The Front of House speakers are elevated to prevent the sound from being absorbed by the first few rows of audience members. The subwoofers do not need to be elevated, because deep bass is omnidirectional. In the smallest coffeehouses and bars, the audio mixer may be onstage so that the performers can mix their own sound levels. In larger bars, the audio mixer may be located in or behind the audience seating area, so that an audio engineer can listen to the mix and adjust the sound levels. The adjustments to the monitor speaker mix may be made by a single audio engineer using the main mixing board, or they may be made by a second audio engineer who uses a separate mixing board.\nFor popular music concerts, a more powerful and more complicated PA System is used to provide live sound reproduction. In a concert setting, there are typically two complete PA systems: the \"main\" system and the \"monitor\" system. Each system consists of a mixing board, sound processing equipment, amplifiers, and speakers. The microphones that are used to pick up vocals and amplifier sounds are routed through both the main and monitor systems. Audio engineers can set different sound levels for each microphone on the main and monitor systems. For example, a backup vocalist whose voice has a low sound level in the main mix may ask for a much louder sound level through her monitor speaker, so she can hear her singing. \n\nAt a concert using live sound reproduction, sound engineers and technicians control the mixing boards for the \"main\" and \"monitor\" systems, adjusting tone, levels, and overall volume.\nTouring productions travel with relocatable large line-array PA systems, sometimes rented from an audio equipment hire company. The sound equipment moves from venue to venue along with various other equipment such as lighting and projection.\n\nAll PA systems have the potential for audio feedback, which occurs when a microphone picks up sound from the speakers, which is re-amplified and sent through the speakers again. It often sounds like a loud high-pitched squeal or screech, and can occur when the volume of the system is turned up too high. Feedback only occurs when the loop gain of the feedback loop is greater than one, so it can always be stopped by reducing the volume sufficiently.\n\nSound engineers take several steps to maximize gain before feedback, including keeping microphones at a distance from speakers, ensuring that directional microphones are not pointed towards speakers, keeping the onstage volume levels down, and lowering gain levels at frequencies where the feedback is occurring, using a graphic equalizer, a parametric equalizer, or a notch filter. Some 2010s-era mixing consoles and effects units have automatic feedback preventing circuits.\n\nFeedback prevention devices detect the start of unwanted feedback and use a precise notch filter to lower the gain of the frequencies that are feeding back. Some automated feedback detectors require the user to “set” the feedback-prone frequencies by purposely increasing gain (during a sound check) until some feedback starts to occur. The device then retains these frequencies in its memory and it stands by ready to cut them. Some automated feedback prevention devices can detect and reduce new frequencies other than those found in the sound check.\n\n"}
{"id": "11854430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11854430", "title": "Riptide (novel)", "text": "Riptide (novel)\n\nRiptide is a novel written by Lincoln Child and Douglas Preston published in 1998 by Warner Books.\n\nThe novel revolves around a plot to retrieve the buried treasure of nefarious pirate Red Ned Ockham. The treasure, which is estimated to be worth close to two billion dollars, reputedly includes \"St. Michael's Sword\", a weapon with the power to kill anyone who looks at it.\nThe novel is pure fiction but is based in part on the legend of the Oak Island Money Pit.\n\nThe location of the pit, described as the Water Pit in \"Riptide\", is moved to a fictional Ragged Island, a dangerous drumlin island approximately six miles off the coast of Maine.\n\n\"Riptide\" is prominent among Preston and Child's works as being the one and only novel by both authors that is a complete stand-alone story, separate from their other works. No characters seen or mentioned in \"Riptide\" have any role in any of their other novels, unlike their other stand-alone works such as \"Mount Dragon\", \"Thunderhead\", and \"The Ice Limit\".\n\nThe novel begins in 1971 and introduces main character Malin Hatch and his older brother Johnny Hatch. In search of something to do with their summer day, Malin suggests that the two explore Ragged Island, an island owned by the Hatch family. Ragged Island is strictly off limits to the boys, because of its ability to \"destroy\" those who come in contact with it. The Hatch brothers ignore their father's demand to stay away from the island and set off for it. Once the boys make it to the island, a terrible accident takes place, that Malin will struggle with for the next 25 years.\n\nTwenty five years later, Dr. Malin Hatch is approached by Gerard Neidelman, a self-proclaimed recovery specialist (a euphemism for treasure hunter), who claims to know who designed the pit, and, therefore, holds the key to unearthing the treasure. Hatch is at first skeptical of Neidelman's claim, but at length allows him to dig on the island.\n\nOnce on the island, things do not go as planned. Mysterious accidents, illnesses and computer problems plague the salvage team, and it is discovered that the architect of the \"Water Pit\" is more clever than anyone realized.\n\nIt also is revealed that the artifact, St. Michael's Sword, is in fact radioactive. This accounts for both the mysterious deaths of Red Ned's crew and for the computer glitches the team is having.\nThe man who designed the water pit had realized that the artifact is actually deadly as well, so he built the pit to collapse on anyone entering it. However, the team learns too late that the entire island is sitting over a massive natural void in the ground, and that anyone removing the sword will collapse it. When Neidelman attempts to regain the sword, ignoring the warnings of the rest of the treasure-hunting team, he fatally irradiates both himself and another character before the island collapses beneath the sea and the sword is lost forever. Neidelman is also lost in the collapse.\n\nCritical reception has been positive. Publishers Weekly wrote a mostly favorable review for \"Riptide\", criticizing it for its \"diffusion of villains\" while also stating that \"Machine-gun pacing, startling plot twists and smart use of legend, scientific lore (including cyptanalysis) and the evocative setting carry the day, however, resulting in an exciting boys' adventure tale for adults that's bound to be one of most popular of the summer reads.\" IGN had a similar opinion, stating that it \"was predictable to me in a few spots, but it didn't take away from my enjoyment of it. After all, you know Indiana Jones is going to get the girl, win the prize, and he's not going to die, but it's still fun to get from point A to point B. That's the case here.\"\n\nAccording to an interview in 2003 with Douglas Preston, talk of a film based upon the book was in its beginning stages. As of 2008, the film has still not started production. No further comment on the film has been announced since 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "39518377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39518377", "title": "Scheibenschlagen", "text": "Scheibenschlagen\n\nScheibenschlagen (disk flinging) is a traditional event in Central Europe in which glowing wooden disks (10 x 10 cm / 4 x 4 inches) are flung from a long hazelnut stick off a mountain side into the valley below.\n\nScheibenschlagen was first recorded as early as 1090 C.E. On March 21, 1090, a building neighboring the Lorsch Abbey was accidentally set on fire by a disk which had been flung during the event.\n\nNowadays, Scheibenschlagen is most popular in the Swabian-Alemannic areas, South Tyrol and Vorarlberg. In the County of Tyrol, where the tradition was once widespread, it is now only actively carried out in the area of Landeck and in the lower Virgental valley. However, in many rural areas (such as \"Scheibschlagalm\" in Brixental, \"Scheibenbichl\" in Imst, etc.) the tradition is still preserved.\n\nThe tradition of Scheibenschlagen is particularly widespread in and around the area of the Upper Rhine Plain (in the Black Forest, Breisgau, Basel-Landschaft, Alsace,) as well as in Vorarlberg, parts of West- and South Tyrol, in Bündner Oberland Breil/Brigels and in Churer Rheintal Untervaz.The northern-most place where Scheibenschlagen still regularly occurs, is in the district of Ersingen in Kämpfelbach,Northern Baden. Other than that, Scheibenschlagen is also popular amongst the Satu Mare Swabians in Romania.\n\nThis traditional event is held either on the weekend of Septuagesima or during Easter. Depending on the region, these days have different names: Funkensonntag, Holepfannsunntag, Kassunnti (Käsesonntag), Küachlisunntig, Küechlesonntag Alti Fasnet. An exception is Bernau im Schwarzwald, where there are up to eight bonfires in which the discs are lit throughout fasting week (except Ash Wednesday). In the Elztal valley and in adjacent valleys in the Black Forest the Scheibenschlagen traditionally takes place on Laetare Sunday.\n\nScheibenschlagen is usually organized by various local clubs, scouts, Funkenzünften (for example traditional Alemannic carnival groups) or the volunteer fire department. Locally, in the Alemannic language area it is organized by current confirmands.\n\nIn Danis (Swiss canton Graubünden) the custom is called trer schibettas (Rhaeto-Romanic for Scheibenschlagen). Here the Scheibenschlagen is usually organized by a so-called Jungmannschaft (a group of young people, similar to scouts). Boys in the 3rd grade and older and all bachelors in the town may participate in the trer schibettas. Whilst hitting the disk, the words \"Oh tgei biala schibetta per la ...(name of a girl)\" are said. Translated it means: Oh what a beautiful disk for … (name of a girl). If a hit turns out badly the words \"Oh tgei tgagiarar per il scolas\"t are said. In Untervaz (Swiss canton Graubünden) the event is only meant for bachelors, young boys and the fathers of young boys; there the word Schybaschlaha is used, which is the common dialect word for Scheibenschlagen.\n\nIn Alsace the custom is called Schieweschlawe; in some small towns of the Alsatian-Swiss Leymental valley it is also called Reedlischwinge (swinging wheels).\n\nThe place where the bonfire is lit and the disks are hit is called Scheibenbühel(disk hill) or Scheibenfelsen (disk rock) in many towns.\n\nNot only the Scheibenschlagen itself but also the collecting of wood for the bonfire, usually also done by the army recruits or the confirmands of the town, is accompanied by rituals in certain regions: In the county of Ortenau, for example in Rammersweier, participants walk through the town with a cart singing this song, asking for wood and wishing people luck:\n\nWohl, Wohl Waihe,\n\nSoll, soll saihe!\n\nGän mer au e Stierli\n\nZu unserm schöne Fierli!\n\nGlück ins Hüs,\n\nSerme rüs!\n\nAlles guet, was 'r gän:\n\nE Serme od´r e´ Well \n\nThe event begins in the late afternoon, with the villagers meeting and having hot beverages and pastries from their region. In the Alemannic area, the event sometimes also begins with a traditional torchlight procession.\n\nScheibenschlagen begins at dusk. After saying a few words, either as a greeting to the next participant or by reciting a short verse, each participant flings the disk into the darkness. In some regions the event is over when all households have thrown their discs and there are no more left. In Mals, Upper Vinschgau, on the same day a 12m long tree trunk called \"Hex\" is put up with a cross-piece wrapped in straw. This cross is set up on a little hill outside the village and gets burned after sunset. After all discs are used up a torchlight procession to the village begins. Afterwards the boys go home to the girls and are served food and drinks until the early morning hours. In Danis, Tavanasa, the youths come back to the village and do the same thing in small groups.\n\nAlemannic region: \"Schiebi, schiebo, die Schieebe soll go, die Schiebe soll suure, em (Name des Opfers) an d' Schnuure.\" Oder: \"Schiebi, schiebo, wem soll die Schiebe go? Die Schiebe soll em ... go. Goht sie it, so gilt sie it.\"\nTranslated: Disc, disc, the disc should fly, the disc should hit (name of the victim) in the face. Or: Disc, disc, for whom should that disc fly? The disc should fly for (name). If it does not it does not count.\n\nCounty of Tyrol: \"Dia Scheiba, dia Scheiba, dia will i iatz treiba, Schmolz in dr Pfonna, Kiachli in dr Wonna, Pfluag in dr Eard, dass dia Scheiba weit außi geat!\"\nTranslated: Disc, disc, it is you I want to propel, lard in the pan, cake in the tub, plow in the mud, that the disc may fly far.\n\nMals, Upper Vinschgau: \"Oh reim reim, wem weard eppar dia Scheib sein, dia Scheib und mei Kniascheib kearn dem Hanssmerl und der Seffa zur a guate Nocht, daß die Bettstatt krocht. Geaht sie guat, hobn si's guat, schaug, wia mei Scheibele ausigeat.\"\n\nBreil/Brigels (Graubünden): \"Oh tgei biala schibetta per la (Mädchenname)!\"\nTranslated: Oh what wonderful disc for (maiden name)!\nIf the disc fails: \"Oh tgei tgagiarar per il scolast!\"\n\nIn the Alemannic region one traditionally uses a wooden stick and a wooden launch ramp called \"Scheibenbock\" to fling the disk. A wooden square with an edge length of about 10 cm and a thickness of 2 cm is used as the disk. Usually the disk is made out of Hardwood (Fagus sylvatica). In the middle there is a drill hole which has two purposes. One reason for the drill hole is to be able to carry many disks on a cord or wire and above all to put them on the stick. With the stick the disks are held in the fire or embers until they are also glowing. This glow is intensified by swinging the stick before hitting the disk.\nProduction and naming of the disks can vary from region to region.\nIn Leimental some disks are carved with a Billhook, others are shaped with a Drawknife depending on the village and it can vary from town to town.\nBesides the name \"Schiibli\" (“little disks”) the wooden disks are also called \"Reedli\" (“little wheels”) – the tradition is then called \"Reedlischwinge\".\n\n"}
{"id": "34556978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34556978", "title": "Seekers of Tomorrow", "text": "Seekers of Tomorrow\n\nSeekers of Tomorrow: Masters of Modern Science Fiction is a work of collective biography on the formative authors of the science fiction genre by Sam Moskowitz, first published in hardcover by the World Publishing Company in 1965. The first paperback edition was issued by Ballantine Books in October, 1967. A photographic reprint of the original edition was issued in both hardcover and trade paperback by Hyperion Press in 1974. Most of its chapters are revised versions of articles that initially appeared in the magazine \"Amazing Stories\" from 1961-1964.\n\nThe work presents the history of the genre from the 1920s through the 1960s via a discussion of the lives and works of twenty-two of its most important early writers. After a general introduction, individual chapters deal with particular authors, followed by a general survey of later or lesser writers (including C. S. Lewis, James Blish, Walter M. Miller, Jr., L. Ron Hubbard, Hal Clement, Ross Rocklynne, Poul Anderson, Cyril M. Kornbluth, Frederik Pohl, Alfred Bester, Edgar Pangborn, Kurt Vonnegut, Jr., Philip K. Dick, Ward Moore, John Hersey, John Christopher and Frank Herbert), an epilogue and an index.\n\n\nReviewing \"Seekers of Tomorrow\", Algis Budrys noted that \"Moskowitz is a master of denotation. He wouldn't know a connotation if it snapped at his ankle, which is something that happens quite often\". He added, however, that \"Moskowitz knows and transmits, at least as much about the history of science fiction and its evolution, as anyone possibly could ... there is no other book like it\". Kirkus Reviews called the work \"a truly gratifying book ... [w]hat is satisfying is to see these authors deeply engaged in works of pure tripe and imagination (Barnum called it hokum) and watch them emerge with a fish so big (macrocosmic) that they become world-renowned. This book should be called Super Time, because each of its subjects is a bit like the success stories in Time--each author has written his Moby Dick of interstellar fantasy. These guys think BIG! These are wild talents pouring out words to oblivion.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1613097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1613097", "title": "Smirting", "text": "Smirting\n\nSmirting is the practice of smoking and flirting outside public places such as pubs, bars, cafés, restaurants, and office buildings where smoking is prohibited.\n\nSmirting was first identified in New York in 2003,\nand spread to the Republic of Ireland in 2004 when an aggressive smoking ban in public places was enacted.\n\nSmirting has been so successful that non-smokers try to mingle with the smirters. The non-smokers may then start to smoke too and so this is a health risk. \n\nSociologist and sexologist Pepper Schwartz states that the smirters are \"defiant and angry, they don't buy the second-hand smoke argument, and want to share this grudge with someone else.\" When they are forced outside, smirters form strong bonds in what is essentially an exile community. But this exile community has its rewards. One study found that 25% of Irish couples who had started a relationship during 2007 or 2008 had met while smoking outside.\n"}
{"id": "377234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377234", "title": "Solo (music)", "text": "Solo (music)\n\nIn music, a solo (from the , meaning \"alone\") is a piece or a section of a piece played or sung featuring a single performer, who may be performing completely alone or supported by an accompanying instrument such as a piano or organ, a continuo group (in Baroque music), or the rest of a choir, orchestra, band, or other ensemble. Performing a solo is \"to solo\", and the performer is known as a soloist.\n\nThe plural is \"soli\" or the anglicised form \"solos\". In some context these are interchangeable, but \"soli\" tends to be restricted to classical music, and mostly either the solo performers or the solo passages in a single piece. Furthermore, the word \"soli\" can be used to refer to a small number of simultaneous parts assigned to single players in an orchestral composition. In the Baroque concerto grosso, the term for such a group of soloists was \"concertino\".\n\nAn instrumental solo is often used in popular music during a break or bridge to add interest and variety to a part of the song without lyrics.\n\nIn the Baroque and Classical periods, the word \"solo\" was virtually equivalent to \"sonata\", and could refer either to a piece for one melody instrument with (continuo) accompaniment, or to a sonata for an unaccompanied melody instrument, such as Johann Sebastian Bach’s sonatas for violin alone.\n\n"}
{"id": "5654834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5654834", "title": "Steinheim an der Murr", "text": "Steinheim an der Murr\n\nSteinheim an der Murr is a town in the district of Ludwigsburg, Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is situated on the river Murr, 9 km northeast of Ludwigsburg. The Steinheim Skull was found near Steinheim an der Murr.\n\nIt is known worldwide for a famous skull of an early human, found there in 1933. This human lived around 250.000 years ago. The original skull is kept in the museum of nature in Stuttgart, while in Steinheim, visitors can see two reproductions of the skull in a small museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "4140063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4140063", "title": "Symbolic power", "text": "Symbolic power\n\nThe concept of symbolic power was first introduced by French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu to account for the tacit, almost unconscious modes of cultural/social domination occurring within the everyday social habits maintained over conscious subjects. Symbolic power accounts for discipline used against another to confirm that individual's placement in a social hierarchy, at times in individual relations but most basically through system institutions, in particular education.\n\nAlso referred to as \"soft power\", symbolic power includes actions that have discriminatory or injurious meaning or implications, such as gender dominance and racism. Symbolic power maintains its effect through the mis-recognition of power relations situated in the social matrix of a given field. While symbolic power requires a dominator, it also requires the dominated to accept their position in the exchange of social value that occurs between them.\n\nThe concept of symbolic power may be seen as grounded in Friedrich Engels' concept of false consciousness. To Engels, under capitalism, objects and social relationships themselves are embedded with societal value that is dependent upon the actors who engage in interactions themselves. Without the illusion of natural law governing such transactions of social and physical worth, the proletariat would be unwilling to consciously support social relations that counteract their own interests. Dominant actors in a society must consciously accept that such an ideological order exists for unequal social relationships to take place. Louis Althusser further developed it in his writing on what he called Ideological State Apparatuses, arguing that the latter's power is partly based on symbolic repression.\n\nThe concept of symbolic power was first introduced by Pierre Bourdieu in \"La Distinction\". Bourdieu suggested that cultural roles are more dominant than economic forces in determining how hierarchies of power are situated and reproduced across societies. Status and economic capital are both necessary to maintain dominance in a system, rather than just ownership over the means of production alone. The idea that one could possess symbolic capital in addition and set apart from financial capital played a critical role in Bourdieu's analysis of hierarchies of power.\n\nFor example, in the process of reciprocal gift exchange in the Kabyle society of Algeria, where there is asymmetry in wealth between the two parties the better endowed giver \"can impose a strict relation of hierarchy and debt upon the receiver.\" Symbolic power, therefore, is fundamentally the imposition of categories of thought and perception upon dominated social agents who, once they begin observing and evaluating the world in terms of those categories—and without necessarily being aware of the change in their perspective—then perceive the existing social order as just. This, in turn, perpetuates a social structure favored by and serving the interests of those agents who are already dominant. Symbolic power, if real, is in some senses much more powerful than physical violence in that it is embedded in the very modes of action and structures of cognition of individuals, and imposes the specter of legitimacy of the social order.\n\n"}
{"id": "7579945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7579945", "title": "Tarahumara language", "text": "Tarahumara language\n\nThe Tarahumara language (native name \"Rarámuri/Ralámuli ra'ícha\" \"people language\") is a Mexican indigenous language of the Uto-Aztecan language family spoken by around 70,000 Tarahumara (Rarámuri/Ralámuli) people in the state of Chihuahua, according to an estimate by the government of Mexico.\n\nTarahumara was previously considered to belong to the Taracahitic group of the Uto-Aztecan languages, but this grouping is no longer considered valid. It is now grouped in a Tarahumaran group along with its closest linguistic relative, the Guarijío language (Varihio, Huarijío), which is also spoken in the Sierra Madre Occidental.\n\nRarámuri is spoken by 70,000 or more indigenous Mexicans living in the state of Chihuahua. There is no consensus among specialists on the number of dialects: competing proposals include two (Western and Eastern); four (Western, Northern, Southern, Eastern); and five, according to field surveys conducted in the 1990s by linguists working for the Mexican government and Ethnologue. Mexican researchers emphasize that the knowledge of Rarámuri dialects is still patchy, and they say there is a possibility that there are many more than five dialects. The five divisions tentatively recognized by the Mexican government are not the same ones proposed by Ethnologue.\n\nThe landscape of the area is dominated almost entirely by the Sierra Madre Occidental, a mountain range in western Mexico. As of 2011, Ethnologue splits Eastern into four dialects. The five dialects recognized by Ethnologue, with Ethnologue's own current designations and population estimates, are Western (40,000 speakers); Central (55,000, including 10,000 monolinguals); Northern (300); Southeastern (no estimate given); and Southwestern (100). The figure of 40,000 is cited as an being official census figure from 1996.\n\nThe language is used in primary schools and local administration as well as in traditional religious practices and local business transactions. According to Ethnologue, Spanish speakers who live near or among the Tarahumara often use it in commerce as well. At the same time, Spanish is becoming ever more prevalent in indigenous communities. Currently, only one percent of the speakers are literate in their language, while 20 percent of them are literate in Spanish.\n\nThe following description is based on Burgess (1984) unless otherwise noted.\n\nRarámuri has five vowel phonemes: . Additionally, occurs as an allophone of word-initially and between a stressed close vowel and the glottal stop. Phonemically, all plosive consonants are voiceless. There are four fricative phonemes, two voiced and two voiceless; but the voiced fricatives both have a plosive allophone: , and , respectively. The phoneme has two allophones: a trilled and a forward-flapped variation. Both allophones occur phrase-initially, but the trilled allophone is much more common.\n\nSome important phonological rules:\n\n\nAffixes are almost always realized as suffixes, and clitics too come word finally. Nouns and verbs are semiagglutinating. Words and phrases are head initial. Adpositions can be prepositions or postpositions, and some are suffixed to nouns.\n\nIn noun morphology, there are two cases: nominative and accusative. Both direct and indirect objects are marked with the suffix . In addition to case marking, there are also the characteristic Uto-Aztecan \"absolutive\" suffixes, which appear when there is no other suffix. Variants of the absolutive include . Possessed nouns are marked in several different ways: verbal constructions, noun suffixing, or a combination of the two. In terms of noun suffixing, possessives are marked with . Some nouns are not inflected for plurality, but noun phrases containing them will mark plurality by other means: quantity words will be added to the noun phrase or words related to the head will be inflected for plurality.\n\nDemonstratives mark proximity/distance but number. Given that Rarámuri is head final, demonstratives come before the noun. They can be used as both articles and pronouns, and can also be doubled. Storytellers will sometimes omit demonstratives in front of names of animals, showing that the animal is being ranked higher on the animacy scale and/or the animal name is being used as a proper noun.\n\nThere are several verbal suffixes for both the future and past tenses, with allomorphs of all three of the future tense suffix markers . The imperfect, conditional, passive voice, plural and singular imperative, and past participle are all marked for with suffixes as well. There are several suffixes that indicate different types of gerunds: past, singular, and plural.\n\nSubject can be marked for in one of two ways. A pronoun coming before the verb can mark for 1, 2, 3 person singular and plural. Additionally, a suffix coming after the TAM marker can mark for the subject as well. In this way, subject marking is more flexible than marking for tense, aspect, and mood; however, subject pronouns cannot be used in conjunction with subject suffixes.\n\nThere are multiple suffixes that can change nouns to verbs. These suffixes cover a range of meanings, from \"become\" or \"make\" to \"put on\", \"take off\", and \"have\". In a similar suffix-adding process, adjectives can also become verbs. In fact, verbs can also take on suffixes to become other verbs, though noun to verb constructions are the most productive of these types of transformations.\n\nRarámuri utilizes valence changing processes that will most often transitivize verbs. This feature is widespread in Uto-Aztecan languages. To transitivize a verb, it is necessary to change the final vowel of the verb root. The process of applicativization involves a suffix and prefix, as well a change in voicing for the root-initial bilabial consonant. This process goes both ways: if a bilabial is [+voice], it will become [-voice] with the addition of these affixes, and vice versa.\n\nRarámuri syntactic structure is fairly free, but it does, of course, have a least marked form. Like most other Uto-Aztecan languages, its default word order is SOV. If there are indirect objects, temporal makers, or locative markers, these typically come after the verb. In any case, the least marked syntax is not always found, as there are many exceptions.\n\nWord order marking of focus and topicalization is heavily used. A sentence constituent may be topicalized by placing it at the beginning of the sentence. Topicalizatin of the verb requires \"emphatic\" words to indicate the subject. The OVS order is the order most prevalent in narratives.\n\nThere are \"emphatic\" morphemes. The particle is added to subjects; the particle to noun phrases filling any grammatical role, and the suffix is an intensifier on nouns and verbs. To \"emphasize\" adverbs, the prefix is added. Pronouns can be emphasized by repeating them within the sentence. In order to add still more \"emphasis\" to a word that already has emphatic particles, the postposition can be added.\n\nRarámuri questions have the following constructions. Sentence initial question particles are necessary. Yes-no questions are marked with the sentence-initial question particle , which can sometimes be accompanied by rising intonation on the final syllable . \"Wh\"-questions are marked with a level or falling prosodic pitch on the last syllable. These words also share a similar phonetic characteristic in that they all contain the allomorph prefixes or , with the exception of , \"where\", which, contains the same affix, only as a suffix instead of a prefix.\n\nTo form a relative clause in Rarámuri, speakers need only place a suffix, [-ame], on the verb of the relative clause in order to achieve grammaticality. Relative clauses can come before or after a head, with the difference only being in emphasis. Sometimes, heads to which relative clauses refer can be repeated. In such instances, the head will occur directly before and directly after the relative clause that belongs to it. There also exists a construction that masks itself as a relative clause, but is really a repetition of the subject of the sentence. Often, the second repetition of the subject will be amplified or expounded upon in some way. This syntactic style is not unique to Rarámuri, but rather, it can be found in many other Uto-Aztecan languages, notably Nawa.\n\nRarámuri language programming is carried by the CDI's radio station XETAR, broadcasting from Guachochi, Chihuahua.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41209067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41209067", "title": "Tawuran", "text": "Tawuran\n\nTawuran (or tubir) is a form of customary mass street fighting between gangs of particular school related students in urban Indonesia, especially in capital city Jakarta. It is practised largely by males in their junior or senior year of high school, and Indonesian sociologist Wirumoto has suggested that it serves as a stress release mechanism, occurring as it often does following examinations, holiday seasons or graduation. W. D. Mansur has suggested that it results not from personal factors such as religion or personality, but from group dynamics such as solidarity and prejudice.\n\nTawuran can result in serious injuries or even death; in 1999 there were 67 deaths and the death toll keep rising from year 2000's till late 2005's with result 297 deaths, in 2011 82 deaths. A 2013 Al Jazeera report noted the increasing use of acid attacks in tawuran, resulting in severe injury and disfigurement. According to one report, between 2012 and 2017, 130 students were killed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26076998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26076998", "title": "The Language of Bees", "text": "The Language of Bees\n\nThe Language of Bees is a 2009 mystery novel by American author Laurie R. King. Ninth in King's Mary Russell series, the story features detectives Mary Russell and her husband Sherlock Holmes. The events of the novel follow soon after those found in King's preceding novel, \"Locked Rooms\".\n\nRussell and Holmes return to their home in Sussex, England, in 1924 after seven months abroad in India, Japan and California. The novel features a domestic mystery as a hive on Holmes’s farm has been repeatedly swarming and a colony of bees is found to have disappeared. Action shifts, however, with the reappearance of Damian Adler, a talented young painter and emotionally disturbed veteran of World War I, first introduced in the second book in the series. Adler is Holmes' estranged son, born to Irene Adler in about 1895. The distraught Adler seeks the couple's help in locating his missing wife Yolanda and their daughter Estelle.\n\nRussell and Holmes separate during the investigation and Russell searches out Damian's questionable past. The search involves the British practitioners of a religious cult called \"The Children of Lights\" with roots in Shanghai, China, and features locations ranging from Bohemian London to the wilds of Scotland. Russell experiences a harrowing trip by aeroplane. A series of bodies appears, some dead by suicide and others ritually sacrificed. While the climax of the novel, in an ancient circle of standing stones on Orkney Island, brings some plot resolution, the story continues in \"The God of the Hive\" (2010).\n"}
{"id": "78242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78242", "title": "The Sopranos", "text": "The Sopranos\n\nThe Sopranos is an American crime drama television series created by David Chase. The story revolves around fictional New Jersey-based, Italian American mobster Tony Soprano (James Gandolfini). The series portrays the difficulties that he faces as he tries to balance his home life and his criminal organization. These are explained during his therapy sessions with psychiatrist Jennifer Melfi (Lorraine Bracco). The series features Tony's family members, mafia colleagues, and rivals in prominent roles and story arcs, most notably his wife Carmela (Edie Falco) and protégé Christopher Moltisanti (Michael Imperioli).\n\nThe pilot was ordered in 1997, and the show premiered on HBO in the United States on January 10, 1999. HBO ran the six seasons totalling 86 episodes until June 10, 2007. Broadcast syndication followed in the United States and internationally. \"The Sopranos\" was produced by HBO, Chase Films, and Brad Grey Television. It was primarily filmed at Silvercup Studios, New York City, and on location in New Jersey. The executive producers throughout the whole run were David Chase, Brad Grey, Robin Green, Mitchell Burgess, Ilene S. Landress, Terence Winter, and Matthew Weiner.\n\n\"The Sopranos\" is widely regarded as one of the greatest television series of all time. The series also won a multitude of awards, including Peabody Awards for its first two seasons, 21 Primetime Emmy Awards, and five Golden Globe Awards. It has been the subject of critical analysis, controversy, and parody, and it has spawned books, , soundtrack albums, and assorted merchandise. Several members of the show's cast and crew were largely unknown to the public but have since had successful careers. In 2013, the Writers Guild of America named \"The Sopranos\" the best-written TV series of all time, while \"TV Guide\" ranked it the best television series of all time. In 2016, the series also ranked first in \"Rolling Stone\"'s list of the 100 greatest TV shows of all time.\n\nIn March 2018, New Line Cinema announced that they have purchased a film detailing the \"Sopranos\" background story, set in the 1960s during the Newark riots. Titled \"The Many Saints of Newark\", it is written by David Chase and Lawrence Konner and will be directed by Alan Taylor.\n\nDavid Chase had worked as a television producer for more than 20 years before creating \"The Sopranos\". He had been employed as a staff writer or producer for several television series, including \"\", \"Switch\", \"The Rockford Files\", \"I'll Fly Away\", and \"Northern Exposure\". He had also co-created the short-lived original series \"Almost Grown\" in 1988. He made his television directorial debut in 1986 with the \"Enough Rope for Two\" episode of \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\". He also directed episodes of \"Almost Grown\" and \"I'll Fly Away\" in 1988 and 1992, respectively. In 1996, he wrote and directed the television film \"The Rockford Files: Punishment and Crime\". He served as showrunner for \"I'll Fly Away\" and \"Northern Exposure\" in the 1990s. Chase won his first Emmy Award in 1978 for his work on \"The Rockford Files\" (shared with fellow producers) and his second for writing the 1980 television film \"Off the Minnesota Strip\". By 1996, he was a coveted showrunner.\n\nThe story of \"The Sopranos\" was initially conceived as a feature film about \"a mobster in therapy having problems with his mother.\" Chase got some input from his manager Lloyd Braun and decided to adapt it into a television series. He signed a development deal in 1995 with production company Brillstein-Grey and wrote the original pilot script. He drew heavily from his personal life and his experiences growing up in New Jersey, and has stated that he tried to \"apply [his own] family dynamic to mobsters.\" For instance, the tumultuous relationship between series protagonist Tony Soprano and his mother Livia is partially based on Chase's relationship with his own mother. He was also in psychotherapy at the time and modeled the character of Dr. Jennifer Melfi after his own psychiatrist.\n\nChase had been fascinated by organized crime and the mafia from an early age, witnessing such people growing up. He also was raised on classic gangster films, such as \"The Public Enemy\", and the crime series \"The Untouchables\". The series is partly inspired by the Boiardo family, a prominent New Jersey organized crime family when Chase was growing up, and partly on New Jersey's DeCavalcante family. He has mentioned American playwrights Arthur Miller and Tennessee Williams as influences on the show's writing, and Italian director Federico Fellini as an important influence on the show's cinematic style.\nThe series was named after high school friends of his.\nChase and producer Brad Grey pitched \"The Sopranos\" to several networks; Fox showed interest but passed on it after Chase presented them the pilot script. They eventually pitched the show to Chris Albrecht, president of HBO Original Programming, who decided to finance a pilot episode which was shot in 1997.\nChase directed it himself. They finished the pilot and showed it to HBO executives, but the show was put on hold for several months. During this time, Chase considered asking HBO for additional funding to shoot 45 more minutes of footage and release \"The Sopranos\" as a feature film. In December 1997, HBO decided to produce the series and ordered 12 more episodes for a 13-episode season.\nThe show premiered on HBO on January 10, 1999 with the pilot episode. \"The Sopranos\" was the second hour-long television drama series produced by HBO, the first being the prison drama \"Oz\".\n\nNorth Jersey prosecutor and municipal judge Robert Baer filed a breach of contract lawsuit against Chase in Trenton, New Jersey federal court, alleging that he helped to create the show. Baer lost the suit, but he won a ruling that a jury should decide how much he should be paid for services as a location scout, researcher, and story consultant. Baer argued that he had introduced Chase to Tony Spirito (a restaurateur and gambler with alleged mob ties) and Thomas Koczur (a homicide detective for the Elizabeth Police Department), with whom Chase had conducted interviews and tours which strongly inspired some characters, settings, and storylines portrayed in \"The Sopranos\".\n\nLike the characters they portray on the show, many of the actors on \"The Sopranos\" are Italian American. Many cast members had appeared together in films and television series before joining the cast of \"The Sopranos\". The series shares a total of 27 actors with the 1990 Martin Scorsese gangster film, \"Goodfellas\", including main cast members Lorraine Bracco, Michael Imperioli, and Tony Sirico.\n\nThe main cast was put together through a process of auditions and readings. Actors often did not know whether Chase liked their performances or not. Michael Imperioli, who beat out several actors for the part of Christopher Moltisanti, recalls \"He's got a poker face, so I thought he wasn't into me, and he kept giving me notes and having me try it again, which often is a sign that you're not doing it right. I thought, I'm not getting this. So he said, 'Thank you,' and I left. I didn't expect to hear back. And then they called.\" Chase also said he wanted Imperioli because he had been in \"Goodfellas.\" James Gandolfini was invited to audition for the part of Tony Soprano after casting director Susan Fitzgerald saw a short clip of his performance in the 1993 film \"True Romance\". Lorraine Bracco, who had played the role of mob wife Karen Hill in \"Goodfellas\", was originally asked to play the role of Carmela Soprano. She took the role of Dr. Jennifer Melfi instead because she wanted to try something different and felt the part of the highly educated Dr. Melfi would be more of a challenge for her. Tony Sirico, who has a criminal background, signed on to play Paulie Walnuts as long as his character was not to be a \"rat\".\nChase invited musician Steven Van Zandt, a guitarist in Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band to audition for a part in his series after seeing him live at the 1997 Rock & Roll Hall of Fame ceremony and being impressed with his appearance and presence. Van Zandt, who had never acted before, originally auditioned for the role of Tony Soprano but HBO felt the role should go to an experienced actor. Van Zandt eventually agreed to star on the show as mob consigliere Silvio Dante and his real-life spouse Maureen was cast as his on-screen wife, Gabriella.\n\nWith the exception of Oscar nominee Bracco (\"Goodfellas\"), Dominic Chianese (\"The Godfather Part II\", along with stage work) and Emmy-winner Nancy Marchand (\"Lou Grant\"), the cast of the debut season of the series consisted of largely unknown actors. After the breakthrough success of the show, many cast members were noted for their acting ability and received mainstream attention for their performances.\nSubsequent seasons saw established actors, Joe Pantoliano, Robert Loggia, Steve Buscemi, Frank Vincent join the starring cast along with well-known actors in recurring roles such as Peter Bogdanovich, John Heard, Robert Patrick, Peter Riegert, Annabella Sciorra, and David Strathairn. Several well-known actors appeared in just one or two episodes, such as Lauren Bacall, Daniel Baldwin, Annette Bening, Polly Bergen, Sandra Bernhard, Charles S. Dutton, Jon Favreau, Janeane Garofalo, Hal Holbrook, Tim Kang, Elias Koteas, Ben Kingsley, Linda Lavin, Ken Leung, Julianna Margulies, Sydney Pollack, Wilmer Valderrama, Alicia Witt and Burt Young.\n\nSeries creator and executive producer David Chase served as showrunner and head writer for the production of all six seasons of the show. He was deeply involved with the general production of every episode and is noted for being a very controlling, demanding, and specific producer. He wrote or co-wrote between two and seven episodes per season, and would oversee all the editing, consult with episode directors, give actors character motivation, approve casting choices and set designs, and do extensive but uncredited rewrites of episodes written by others.\nBrad Grey served as executive producer alongside Chase but had no creative input on the show.\nMany members of the creative team behind \"The Sopranos\" were handpicked by Chase, some being old friends and colleagues of his; others were selected after interviews conducted by producers of the show.\n\nMany of the show's writers worked in television prior to joining the writing staff of \"The Sopranos\". Writing team and married couple Robin Green and Mitchell Burgess worked on the series as writers and producers from the first to the fifth season; they had previously worked with Chase on \"Northern Exposure\".\nTerence Winter joined the writing staff during the production of the second season and served as executive producer from season five onwards. He practiced law for two years before deciding to pursue a career as a screenwriter, and he caught the attention of Chase through writer Frank Renzulli.\nMatthew Weiner served as staff writer and producer for the show's fifth and sixth seasons. He wrote a spec script for the series \"Mad Men\" in 2000. The script was passed on to Chase who was so impressed that he immediately offered Weiner a job as a writer for \"The Sopranos\".\nCast members Michael Imperioli and Toni Kalem portray Christopher Moltisanti and Angie Bonpensiero respectively, and they also wrote episodes for the show. Imperioli wrote five episodes of seasons two through five, and Kalem wrote one episode of season five.\n\nOther writers included Frank Renzulli, Todd A. Kessler (co-creator of \"Damages\"), writing team Diane Frolov and Andrew Schneider (worked with Chase on \"Northern Exposure\"), and Lawrence Konner, who co-created \"Almost Grown\" with Chase in 1988. In total, 20 writers or writing teams (22 people) are credited with writing episodes of \"The Sopranos\". Of these, Tim Van Patten and Maria Laurino receive a single story credit, and eight others are credited with writing a sole episode. The most prolific writers of the series were Chase (30 credited episodes, including story credits), Winter (25 episodes), Green and Burgess (22 episodes), Weiner (12 episodes), and Renzulli (9 episodes).\n\nMany of the directors had previously worked on television series and independent films. The most frequent directors of the series were Tim Van Patten (20 episodes), John Patterson (13 episodes), Allen Coulter (12 episodes), and Alan Taylor (9 episodes), all of whom have a background in television. Recurring cast members Steve Buscemi and Peter Bogdanovich also directed episodes of the series intermittently.\nChase directed the pilot episode and the series finale.\nBoth episodes were photographed by the show's original director of photography Alik Sakharov, who later alternated episodes with Phil Abraham.\nThe show's photography and directing is noted for its feature film quality.\nThis look was achieved by Chase collaborating with Sakharov. \"From the pilot, we would sit down with the whole script and break the scenes down into shots. That's what you do with feature films.\"\n\n\"The Sopranos\" is noted for its eclectic music selections and has received considerable critical attention for its effective use of previously recorded songs.\nChase personally selected all of the show's music with producer Martin Bruestle and music editor Kathryn Dayak, sometimes also consulting Steven Van Zandt. The music was usually selected once the production and editing of an episode was completed, but on occasion sequences were filmed to match preselected pieces of music.\n\nThe show's opening theme is \"Woke Up This Morning\" (Chosen One Mix), written by, remixed and performed by British band Alabama 3. With few exceptions, a different song plays over the closing credits of each episode. Many songs are repeated multiple times through an episode, such as \"Living on a Thin Line\" by The Kinks in the season three episode \"University\" and \"Glad Tidings\" by Van Morrison in the season five finale \"All Due Respect\". Other songs are heard several times throughout the series. A notable example is \"Con te partirò\", performed by Italian singer Andrea Bocelli,\nwhich plays several times in relation to the character of Carmela Soprano.\nWhile the show utilizes a wealth of previously recorded music, it is also notable for its lack of originally composed incidental music, compared to other television programs.\n\nTwo soundtrack albums containing music from the series have been released. The first, titled \"The Sopranos: Music from the HBO Original Series\", was released in 1999. It contains selections from the show's first two seasons and reached #54 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" 200.\nA second soundtrack compilation, titled \"\", was released in 2001. This double-disc album contains songs and selected dialogue from the show's first three seasons.\nIt reached #38 on the U.S. Billboard 200.\n\nThe majority of the exterior scenes taking place in New Jersey were filmed on location, with the majority of the interior shots—including most indoor shots of the Soprano residence, the back room of the strip club Bada Bing!, and Dr. Melfi's psychiatrist's office—filmed at Silvercup Studios in New York City.\n\nThe pork store, a frequent hangout for the mobsters on the show, was in the pilot episode known as Centanni's Meat Market, an actual butchery in Elizabeth, New Jersey.\nAfter the series was picked up by HBO, the producers leased a building with a store front in Kearny, New Jersey. For the remainder of the production period, this building served as the shooting location for scenes outside and inside the pork store, now renamed Satriale's.\nAfter the series ended, the building was demolished.\n\nBada Bing!, a strip club owned and operated by the character Silvio Dante on the show, is an actual strip club on Route 17 in Lodi, New Jersey. Exteriors and interiors (except for the back room) were shot on location. The club is called Satin Dolls and was an existing business before the show started.\nThe club continued to operate during the eight years the show was filmed there. As such, a business arrangement was worked out with the owner. Locations manager Mark Kamine recalls that the owner was \"very gracious\" as long as the shooting did not \"conflict with his business time.\" Scenes set at the restaurant Vesuvio, owned and operated in the series by character Artie Bucco, were in the first episode filmed at a restaurant called Manolo's located in Elizabeth. After the destruction of Vesuvio within the context of the series, Artie opened a new restaurant called Nuovo Vesuvio; exterior scenes set there were filmed at an Italian restaurant called Punta Dura located in Long Island City. All the exterior and some interior shots of the Soprano residence were filmed on location at a private residence in North Caldwell, New Jersey.\n\nTony Soprano is seen emerging from the Lincoln Tunnel and passes through the tollbooth for the New Jersey Turnpike. Numerous landmarks in and around Newark and Elizabeth, New Jersey, are then shown passing by the camera as Tony drives down the highway. The sequence ends with Tony pulling into the driveway of his suburban home. Chase has said that the goal of the title sequence was to show that this particular mafia show was about New Jersey, as opposed to New York, where most similar dramas have been set.\n\nIn the first three seasons, between Tony leaving the tunnel and passing through the toll plaza, the show had a shot of the World Trade Center towers in Tony's rear-view mirror. After the September 11, 2001 attacks, this shot was removed and replaced with a more generic shot, beginning with the show's fourth season.\n\nIn a 2010 issue of \"TV Guide\", the show’s opening title sequence ranked #10 on a list of TV's top 10 credits sequences, as selected by readers.\n\n\"The Sopranos\" features a large cast of characters, many of whom get significant amounts of character development—regardless of level of importance. Some only appear in certain seasons, while others appear (sporadically or constantly) throughout the entire series. All characters were created by David Chase, unless otherwise noted.\n\nTony Soprano (James Gandolfini) is the series' protagonist. Tony is one of the capos (and the unofficial underboss) of the New Jersey-based DiMeo crime family, at the beginning of the series; he eventually becomes its undisputed boss. He is also the patriarch of the Soprano household. Throughout the series, Tony struggles to balance the conflicting requirements of his familywife Carmela, daughter Meadow, son A. J., and mother Liviawith those of the Mafia family he controls.\nBecause he is prone to bouts of clinical depression, after a fainting spell (triggered by a panic attack), Tony's physician refers him for treatment from psychiatrist Dr. Jennifer Melfi (Lorraine Bracco), in the show's first episode. She treats Tony to the best of her ability despite the fact that they routinely clash over various issues. Melfi is usually thoughtful, rational and humane—a stark contrast to Tony's personality. Tony, a serial womanizer, occasionally divulges his sexual attraction to Dr. Melfi; Melfi harbors some degree of attraction to Tony, too, but never admits or acts on it. Melfi is far more attracted to Tony's dangerousness and power. She is drawn to the challenge of helping such an unusual client, and naively assumes that their doctor-patient relationship will not affect her personal life in any way.\n\nAdding to Tony's complicated life is his relationship with his wife Carmela (Edie Falco), which is strained by his constant infidelity and her struggle to reconcile the reality of Tony's business (which she is often in denial of), with the affluent lifestyle and higher social status it brings her. Both have up-and-down relationships with their two children: the intelligent-but-rebellious Meadow (Jamie-Lynn Sigler), and underachiever A.J. (i.e., Anthony Jr.) (Robert Iler), whose everyday teenage issues are further complicated by their eventual knowledge of their father's criminal activities and reputation.\n\nThe starring cast includes members of Tony's extended family, including: his disapproving, manipulative mother, Olivia \"'Livia\" Soprano (Nancy Marchand); his aimless, histrionic older sister, Janice (Aida Turturro); his paternal uncle Corrado \"Junior\" Soprano (Dominic Chianese), nominal boss of the crime family following the death of then-acting boss Jackie Aprile Sr.; cousin Tony Blundetto (Steve Buscemi); and Christopher Moltisanti (Michael Imperioli), often referred to as Tony's \"nephew\" (but is actually his cousin by marriage). Both 'Livia and Janice are scheming, treacherous, shrewd manipulators with major-yet-unaddressed psychological issues of their own. The single-mindedly ambitious Uncle Junior is chronically frustrated by having not been made boss of the DiMeo family, despite old-school mob traditions entitling him to the position by virtue of seniority. He feels his authority is perpetually undermined by Tony's greater influence in the organization, and barely contains his seething jealousy at having to watch both his younger brother (Tony's father) and now Tony, himself, leapfrog him in the organization. As their professional tensions escalate, Uncle Junior employs increasingly desperate, behind-the-scenes measures to solve his problems with Tony, who still idolizes his uncle, and wants to retain Junior's affection and approval. Uncle Junior and Christopher are fixtures in Tony's real family, as well as his crime family, so their actions in one realm often create further conflicts in the other. Christopher, an entitled, insecure DiMeo associate who is as ambitious as he is insubordinate and incompetent, is also a chronic substance abuser. Tony Blundetto is a well-respected DiMeo family soldier who returns after completing a lengthy prison sentence; he leaves prison committed to \"going straight\" (to Tony's dismay), but also has an intense violent streak.\n\nThose in Tony's closest circle within the DiMeo crime family include Silvio Dante (Steven Van Zandt). Silvio is Tony's consigliere and best friend. He runs the family's strip club headquarters, and other businesses. Paulie \"Walnuts\" Gualtieri (Tony Sirico), a tough, short-tempered, aging soldier who is fiercely loyal to Tony and Salvatore \"Big Pussy\" Bonpensiero (Vincent Pastore), a veteran gangster who runs an automotive body shop. Paulie \"Walnuts\" and \"Big Pussy\" (often called just, \"Pussy\") have worked with Tony and his father. Also in Tony's criminal organization are: Patsy Parisi (Dan Grimaldi), and Furio Giunta (Federico Castelluccio). Patsy is a soft-spoken soldier with a head for figures; Furio, an Italian national who joins the family later in the series, serves as Tony's violent enforcer and bodyguard.\n\nOther significant characters in the DiMeo family include: Bobby \"Bacala\" Baccalieri (Steven R. Schirripa); Richie Aprile (David Proval); Ralph Cifaretto (Joe Pantoliano); Eugene Pontecorvo (Robert Funaro); and Vito Spatafore (Joseph R. Gannascoli). Bobby is a subordinate of Uncle Junior's whom Tony initially bullies, but later accepts into his inner circle. Ralph is a clever, ambitious top-earner; but his arrogant, obnoxious, disrespectful, and unpredictably violent tendencies turn Tony resentful. Richie Aprile is released from prison in season 2, and quickly makes waves. Pontecorvo is a young soldier who becomes a \"made\" man alongside Christopher. Spatafore works his way up through the ranks to become top earner of the Aprile crew, but is secretly homosexual.\n\nFriends of the Soprano family include: Herman \"Hesh\" Rabkin (Jerry Adler); Adriana La Cerva (Drea de Matteo); Rosalie Aprile (Sharon Angela); Angie Bonpensiero (Toni Kalem), along with Artie (John Ventimiglia) and Charmaine Bucco (Kathrine Narducci). Hesh is an invaluable adviser and friend to Tony, as he was when Tony's father ran things. Adriana is Christopher's loyal and long-suffering girlfriend; the two have a volatile relationship, but appear destined to stay together. Christopher often ignores Adriana's advice, and winds up regretting it. Rosalie is the widow of previous DiMeo boss Jackie Aprile Sr., and a very close friend of Carmela. Angie is Salvatore Bonpensiero's wife; she later goes into \"business\" for herself, and quite successfully. Artie & Charmaine are childhood friends of the Sopranos, and owners of the popular restaurant, Vesuvio. Charmaine wishes to have no association with Tony and his crew due to fears that Tony's criminal ways will ultimately ruin everything she and Artie have achieved. Artie, however—a law-abiding, hard-working man—is drawn to his childhood friend Tony's glamorous, seemingly carefree lifestyle. Charmaine bitterly resents Artie's chronic tendency to disregard her wishes while catering to Tony's; their marriage suffers greatly as a result. Charmaine also had a brief sexual encounter with Tony (when he and Carmela had temporarily broken-up) when all four were teenagers.\n\nJohn \"Johnny Sack\" Sacramoni (Vince Curatola), Phil Leotardo (Frank Vincent) and \"Little\" Carmine Lupertazzi Jr. (Ray Abruzzo) are all significant characters from the New York City-based Lupertazzi crime family, which shares a good amount of its business with the Soprano organization. Although the Lupertazzis' and DiMeos' interests are often at odds, Tony maintains a cordial, business-like relationship with \"Johnny Sack\", preferring to make mutually beneficial deals, not war. Johnny Sack's second-in-command and eventual successor, Phil Leotardo, is less friendly and harder for Tony to do business with. Little Carmine is the son of the family's first boss, and vies for power with its other members.\n\nWhen Tony Soprano collapses after suffering a panic attack, he begins therapy with Dr. Jennifer Melfi. Details of Tony's upbringingwith his father's influence looming large on his development as a gangster, but more so that Tony's mother, Livia, was vengeful and possibly psychopathicare revealed. His complicated relationship with his wife Carmela is also explored, as well as her feelings regarding her husband's \"cosa nostra\" ties. Meadow and Anthony Jr.—Tony's children—gain increasing knowledge of their father's mob dealings. Later, federal indictments are brought as a result of someone in his organization talking to the FBI.\n\nTony's uncle Corrado \"Junior\" Soprano orders the murder of Brendan Filone and the mock execution of Chris Moltisanti, associates of Tony, as reprisal for repeated hijackings of trucks under Corrado's protection. Tony defuses the situation by allowing his uncle to be installed as boss of the family (following the death of previous boss Jackie Aprile Sr. from cancer), while Tony retains actual control of most things from behind the scenes. Corrado discovers the artifice, however, and orders an attempt on Tony's life. The assassination is nevertheless botched and Tony responds violently, before confronting his mother for her role in plotting his downfall; she appears to have a psychologically-triggered stroke. \"Junior\" is arrested by the FBI on non-related charges.\n\nJackie's brother Richie Aprile is released from prison, proving to be uncontrollable in the business arena, starts a relationship with Janice, Tony's sister, who has arrived from Seattle. \"Big Pussy\" returns to New Jersey after a conspicuous absence.\n\nChristopher Moltisanti becomes engaged to his girlfriend Adriana La Cerva. Matthew Bevilaqua and Sean Gismonte, two low-level associates dissatisfied with their perceived lack of success in the Soprano crew, try to make a name for themselves by attempting to kill Christopher. Their plan backfires; Christopher kills Sean and, though critically wounded, survives their attack. Tony and Big Pussy locate Matthew and kill him. However, a witness goes to the FBI and identifies Tony.\n\nJunior is placed under house arrest as he awaits trial. Richie, frustrated with Tony's authority over him, entreats Junior to have Tony killed. Junior feigns interest, then informs Tony of Richie's intentions, leaving Tony with another problem to address. However, the situation is defused unexpectedly when Janice kills Richie in a violent argument; Tony and his men conceal all evidence of the murder, and Janice returns to Seattle.\n\nTony, realizing Big Pussy is an FBI informant, kills him on board a boat (with assistance from Silvio Dante and Paulie Gualtieri), then wraps his corpse in chains and throws it overboard.\n\nFollowing the \"disappearance\" of Aprile crew capo Richie Aprile, the return of the ambitious Ralph Cifaretto, having spent an extended period of leisure time in Miami, marks the . He renews a relationship with Rosalie Aprile, the widow of the deceased acting boss Jackie Aprile Sr., and former capo of the Aprile crew, which bears his name. With Richie assumed to have joined the Witness Protection Program, Ralph unofficially usurps control over the Aprile crew, proving to be an exceptionally dexterous earner for the crew. While Ralph's competitive merit would seemingly have him next in line to ascend to capo, his insubordination inclines Tony not to promote him and instead gives the promotion to the unqualified, but complacent, Gigi Cestone, causing much resentment and tension between him and Ralph. Livia dies of a stroke.\n\nJackie Aprile Jr. becomes involved with Meadow and then descends into a downward spiral of recklessness, drugs and crime. Tony initially attempts to act as a mentor to Jackie but becomes increasingly impatient with his escalating misbehavior, particularly as Jackie's relationship with Meadow begins to become serious. Inspired by a story from Ralph about how Tony, Jackie Sr., and Silvio Dante got made, Jackie and his friends Dino Zerilli and Carlo Renzi make a similar move and attempt to rob Eugene Pontecorvo's Saturday night card game, so they can gain recognition from the family, possibly getting them respected and made as well. The plan takes a turn for the worse when Jackie panics due to the heckling of the card dealer \"Sunshine\" and shoots him to death. Dino and Carlo are killed during the robbery, but Jackie manages to escape. Tony decides to give Ralph the decision regarding Jackie Jr.'s punishment. Despite his role as a surrogate father, Ralph decides to have Jackie Jr. killed.\n\nRalph ultimately crosses the line when, in a cocaine-induced rage, he gets into a confrontation with girlfriend Tracee and beats her to death. She may have been pregnant with his child at the time. This infuriates Tony to the point where he violates traditional mafia code by striking him repeatedly in front of the entire family. Bad blood temporarily surfaces between the two but is shortly resolved after Cestone suffers a fatal heart attack, thereby forcing Tony to reluctantly promote Ralph to capo.\n\nTony begins an affair with Gloria Trillo, who is also a patient of Dr. Melfi. Their relationship is brief and tumultuous. Meanwhile, Dr. Melfi is raped. Junior is diagnosed with stomach cancer; following chemotherapy, it goes into remission. A.J. continues to get in trouble at school—despite success on the football team—which culminates in his expulsion.\n\nTony and Christopher stake out the retirement party of Detective Lieutenant Barry Haydu, the man who murdered Christopher's father. Tony gives Christopher Haydu's address. When Christopher asks why he had been allowed to live all these years, Tony says that he had been valuable, but that he has outlived his worth. Christopher waits inside Haydu's home, ambushes him as he returns from his party, and shoots him.\n\nNew York underboss Johnny Sack becomes enraged after learning Ralph Cifaretto made an inappropriate joke about his wife's weight. He seeks permission from boss Carmine Lupertazzi to have Ralph clipped, but is denied. Johnny orders the hit anyway. Tony receives the okay from Carmine to hit Johnny Sack for insubordination. Junior Soprano tips Tony to use an old outfit in Providence for the work. After catching his wife eating sweets secretly, instead of following the diet plan, Johnny Sack gives in, and bloodshed is averted.\n\nTony and Ralph invest in a race horse named Pie-O-My, who wins several races and makes them both a great deal of money. However, when Ralph's 12-year-old son Justin is severely injured when an arrow plunges into his chest, Tony comes to believe Ralph burned Pie-O-My in a stable fire to collect $200,000 in insurance money. Tony confronts Ralph the following morning and Ralph denies setting the fire. The two engage in a violent brawl, culminating in Tony strangling Ralph to death. Tony and Christopher dispose of the body; they bury his head and hands at Mikey Palmice's father's farm and throw his body into a quarry.\n\nWhile he is leaving court, Uncle Junior is hit in the head with a boom mic and falls down several steps. Tony advises him to take advantage of the opportunity, act mentally incompetent, and employ it as a ruse for not continuing the trial. Later, Eugene Pontecorvo intimidates a juror, resulting in a deadlocked jury, forcing the judge to declare a mistrial.\n\nFollowing the death of Bobby Baccalieri's wife, Janice pursues a romantic relationship with him. Christopher's addiction to heroin deepens, prompting his associates and family to organize an intervention, after which he enters a drug rehabilitation center. Adriana befriends a woman who is an undercover FBI agent. When the friendship ends, the woman reveals herself as an FBI agent and tells Adriana the only way to stay out of prison is to become an informant. Adriana agrees and starts sharing information with the FBI.\n\nCarmela, whose relationship with Tony is tense due to financial worries and Tony's infidelities, develops a mutual infatuation with Furio Giunta. Furio, incapable of breaking his own moral codes and that of the Neapolitan mafia, clandestinely returns home to Italy. After Tony's former mistress calls their home, Carmela throws Tony out. Tony is approached by Johnny Sack with a proposal to murder Carmine, which Tony turns down.\n\nA string of new characters are introduced, including Tony's cousin Tony Blundetto, who simultaneously along with other mafiosi, is released from prison. Among the others released are former DiMeo crime family capo Michele \"Feech\" La Manna, Lupertazzi family capo Phil Leotardo, and semi-retired Lupertazzi consigliere Angelo Garepe. Tony offers Tony B. a job, but he respectfully declines, as he is determined to lead a straight life. He initially begins to take courses to earn a degree in massage therapy and aspires to open up his own massage parlor. After Carmine Lupertazzi dies of a stroke, his death leaves a vacancy for boss of the Lupertazzi family, which will soon be fought over by underboss Johnny Sack and Carmine's son Carmine Lupertazzi Jr. After Feech proves to be an insubordinate presence, Tony arranges for him to be sent back to prison by setting him up with stolen property, violating his parole.\n\nThe war between Johnny Sack and Carmine Jr. begins when Johnny has Phil kill \"lady shylock\" Lorraine Calluzzo. Tony B.'s attempt to stay straight comes to a head when he gets into a brawl with his employer Sungyon Kim. Tony informs Tony B. that \"it's hard working with strangers.\" Angelo, who was a good friend to Tony B. in prison, and Lupertazzi capo Rusty Millio offer Tony B. the job of taking out Joey Peeps in retaliation for Lorraine's death. Tony B. initially declines but, desperate to earn, accepts the job. He catches Joey outside a bordello, shoots him, and quickly flees the scene. Johnny believes Tony B. is involved, and retaliates by having Phil and his brother Billy Leotardo kill Angelo. Tony B. finds the Leotardo brothers and opens fire, killing Billy and wounding Phil.\n\nStill separated from Carmela, Tony is living at his parents' house. Carmela, now the sole authority figure in the home, becomes frustrated as her rules lead A.J. to resent her; eventually she allows him to live with his father. She has a brief relationship with Robert Wegler, A.J.'s guidance counselor; he breaks it off abruptly when he suspects that she is manipulating him to improve A.J.'s grades. Tony and Carmela reconcile; Tony promises to be more loyal and agrees to pay for a piece of real estate Carmela wishes to develop.\n\nTony gets Meadow's boyfriend Finn De Trolio a summer job at a construction site, which is run by Aprile crew capo Vito Spatafore. Finn comes in early one morning and catches Vito performing fellatio on a security guard. Vito tries to buddy up to Finn so that he does not say anything to anybody else. He even asks Finn to a Yankees game, which Finn does not attend. Finn soon quits the job out of fear.\n\nAfter covering up a murder that occurred at The Crazy Horse, Adriana is arrested and pressured by the FBI to wear a wire to avoid being charged as an accomplice. She refuses to wear a wire and informs the FBI that she may be able to persuade her fiancé Christopher to co-operate and become an informant against Tony. She confesses to Christopher that she has been informing and that the FBI would give them new identities if they would testify. Christopher is grief-stricken and nearly kills her. He leaves the apartment, saying he needs time to think. Tony has Silvio pick up Adriana under the pretense of taking her to see Christopher, but instead drives her out to the woods and executes her. Adriana’s betrayal and subsequent execution is too much for Christopher to handle and he briefly returns to drug abuse to deal with the pain.\n\nPhil Leotardo and his henchmen beat Benny Fazio while trying to acquire the whereabouts of Tony B.; Phil also threatens to have Christopher taken out if Tony B.'s whereabouts are not disclosed soon. To avoid any more of his guys getting hurt and to pacify New York, Tony tracks Tony B. to their Uncle Pat's farm and shoots him. Phil, however, is furious that he did not get the opportunity to do it himself. Tony and Johnny meet at Johnny's house in a reconciliatory manner, but Johnny is arrested by Federal agents, while Tony escapes.\n\nA senile and confused Uncle Junior shoots Tony. Rendered comatose, Tony dreams he is a salesman on a business trip who mistakenly exchanges his briefcase and identification with a man named Kevin Finnerty. Tony's recovery from the shooting changes his outlook and he tries to mend his ways. However, he is faced with more problems in his business life.\n\nOnce out of the hospital, Johnny Sack's daughter gets married and the Soprano family attends. There, Tony is shown very exhausted when taking off his shoes through security. In the process, he collapses to the floor but is not hurt. Before the wedding, Johnny Sack is approved to leave prison for six hours to see his daughter get married, but has to pay for the metal detectors and the presence of the U.S. marshals at the event. As his daughter is about to drive away, the SUV that was escorting Johnny to the wedding blocks the car from leaving and an altercation begins in the driveway. In a moment of weakness and despair, Johnny Sack cries as he is put back into handcuffs and driven back to prison, greatly diminishing the respect his crew and Tony's crew have for him.\n\nVito Spatafore is outed as homosexual after running into a friend at a New York gay night club. The rumor spreads quickly, and once word gets to Meadow that everyone else knows, she tells Tony and Carmela about the incident between Finn and Vito with the security guard. Finn then has to sit in front of Tony's entire crew and tell them what happened with the guard, solidifying their thoughts on Vito's sexuality. Tony is urged to deal with the problem by Phil Leotardo, now acting boss of New York with Johnny Sack in prison. Once Vito is outed, he runs away from the city and hides out in a New Hampshire town where he claims to be writing a book and meets with the locals. Vito also starts a romantic relationship with a male cook at a local diner. Eventually, Vito returns to New Jersey and asks Tony to allow him to return to work, albeit in Atlantic City. He continues to maintain that he is not a homosexual. Tony mulls over the decision to let him work, as well as whether to let him live. When Tony fails to act, Phil intervenes and kills Spatafore. When one of the members of the New York family, Fat Dom Gamiello, pays a visit to the Jersey office and won't stop making jokes about Vito and his death, Silvio and Carlo kill Fat Dom out of anger at the disrespect he has shown. Once more, it appears that the families are on the verge of all-out war.\n\nDuring the first half of the season Chris and Carmine head to Los Angeles to try to sign Ben Kingsley for a film they are trying to make called \"Cleaver\", which is basically a mix of \"The Godfather\" and \"Saw\". But Kingsley passes on the picture. While in Los Angeles Chris goes back to using cocaine for a short period of time.\n\nTony considers killing several of his associates for relatively minor infractions. Christopher is unable to leave the mob, deflecting his problems by relapsing into drug addiction and kills his friend from Narcotics Anonymous, J. T. Dolan. He is then seriously injured in a car accident while driving under the influence of narcotics. Tony, the sole passenger, is not badly hurt, and suffocates Christopher to death. A.J. is dumped by his fiancée and slips into depression, culminating in a suicide attempt in the backyard pool. Dr. Melfi is convinced by friends that Tony is making no progress and may even be using talking therapy for his own sociopathic benefit. She drops him as a patient.\n\nJohnny Sack dies from lung cancer while imprisoned, and Leotardo then consolidates his position in the Lupertazzi family by having his rivals for the leadership killed. Phil then officially takes over, igniting a resumption of the past feud with Tony and refusing to compromise with Tony on a garbage deal. When Tony assaults a Lupertazzi soldier for harassing Meadow while she is on a date, Phil decides it's time to decapitate the Soprano crew. He orders the executions of Bobby Baccalieri, who is shot to death; Silvio, who ends up comatose; and Tony, who goes into hiding. A deal is brokered whereby the rest of the Lupertazzi family agrees to ignore the order to kill Tony, giving Tony an opportunity to go after Phil. An FBI agent informs Tony of Phil's location, allowing Tony to have him killed. Tony suspects that Carlo, a capo from New Jersey, has become an informant in an attempt to help out his son, who has recently been caught for dealing ecstasy. Tony meets his lawyer, who informs him that subpoenas are being given to New Jersey and New York crews alike.\n\nTony, arriving first, and while waiting for Carmela, and AJ to meet for dinner, the Little Feat song \"All That You Dream\" plays in the background on the jukebox, Tony keys into the juke box the Journey song \"Don't Stop Believin'\" and it begins to play. The camera cuts away from the Soprano family and presents vignettes of other diners. As the tension increases, Meadow is shown struggling with parking then crossing the street to the restaurant. A man, who had been previously shown at the counter specifically taking notice of Tony, is shown entering the restroom, the door of which is directly facing and approximately 90 degrees to the table at which Tony and his family are sitting. As Meadow walks up to the door, the screen goes to Tony. The diner door opens with a bell ringing, Tony looks up and the show smash cuts to black and after a few seconds the credits roll in silence.\n\nChase's decision to end the last episode abruptly with just a black screen was controversial. While Chase has insisted that it was not his intention to stir controversy, the ambiguity over the ending and question of whether Tony was murdered has continued for years after the finale's original broadcast and has spawned numerous websites devoted to finding out his true intention.\n\n\"The Sopranos\" was a major ratings success, despite being aired on premium cable network HBO which is available in significantly fewer American homes than regular networks. The show frequently attracted equal or larger audiences than most popular network shows of the time. Nielsen ratings for the first four seasons are not entirely accurate, however, as Nielsen reported aggregate numbers for cable networks prior to January 2004, meaning that people who were included in the ratings estimates were actually watching HBO channels other than the main one on which \"The Sopranos\" aired.\n\nMany critics have asserted that \"The Sopranos\" is the greatest and most groundbreaking television series of all time. The writing, acting, and directing have often been singled out for praise. The show has also received considerable attention from critics and journalists for its mature and artistic content, technical merit, music selections, cinematography, and willingness to deal with difficult and controversial subjects including crime, family, gender roles, mental illness, and American and Italian American culture. \"The Sopranos\" is credited for creating a new era in the mafia genre deviating from the traditional dramatized image of the gangster in favor of a simpler, more accurate reflection of ordinary day-to-day mob life in a suburb. The series sheds light on Italian family dynamics through the depiction of Tony's tumultuous relationship with his mother. Edie Falco's character Carmela Soprano is praised in Kristyn Gorton's essay \"Why I Love Carmela Soprano\" for challenging Italian-American gender roles. \"New Yorker\" editor David Remnick described \"The Sopranos\" as mirroring the \"mindless commerce and consumption\" of modern America.\n\n\"The Sopranos\" has been called \"perhaps the greatest pop-culture masterpiece of its day\" by \"Vanity Fair\" contributor Peter Biskind. Remnick called the show \"the richest achievement in the history of television.\"\nIn 2002, \"TV Guide\" ranked \"The Sopranos\" fifth on their list of the \"Top 50 TV Shows of All Time,\" while the series was only in its fourth season.\nIn 2007, Channel 4 (UK) named \"The Sopranos\" the greatest television series of all time.\n\nThe first season of the series received overwhelmingly positive reviews.\nFollowing its initial airing in 1999, \"The New York Times\" stated, \"[\"The Sopranos\"] just may be the greatest work of American popular culture of the last quarter century.\" In 2007, Roger Holland of PopMatters wrote, \"the debut season of \"The Sopranos\" remains the crowning achievement of American television.\"\n\n\"Time Out New York\" 's Andrew Johnston had high praise for the series, stating: \"Together, Chase and his fellow writers (including Terence Winter and \"Mad Men\" creator Matthew Weiner) produced the legendary Great American Novel, and its 86 episodes long.\" Johnston asserted the preeminence of \"The Sopranos\" as opposed to \"The Wire\" and \"Deadwood\" in a debate with television critics Alan Sepinwall and Matt Zoller Seitz, both of whom would later include \"The Sopranos\" in their 2016 book titled \"TV (The Book)\" as the 2nd greatest American television series of all time, behind only \"The Simpsons\" and ahead of \"The Wire\", with Seitz considering the show's ending to be the greatest ending for any television show.\n\nIn November and December 2009, a large number of television critics named \"The Sopranos\" the best series of the decade and all time in articles summarizing the decade in television. In numbered lists over the best television programs, \"The Sopranos\" frequently ranked first or second, almost always competing with \"The Wire\". In 2013, \"TV Guide\" ranked \"The Sopranos\" No. 2 in its list of The 60 Greatest Dramas of All Time, In the same year, the Writers Guild of America named it the best-written television series of all time and \"TV Guide\" ranked it as the greatest show of all time. In 2016, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked \"The Sopranos\" first on its list of 100 Greatest TV Shows of All Time.\n\nCertain episodes have frequently been singled out by critics as the show's best. These include the pilot, titled \"The Sopranos\", \"College\" and \"I Dream of Jeannie Cusamano\" of the first season; \"The Knight in White Satin Armor\" and \"Funhouse\" of the second; \"Employee of the Month\", \"Pine Barrens\" and \"Amour Fou\" of the third; \"Whoever Did This\" and \"Whitecaps\" of the fourth; \"Irregular Around the Margins\" and \"Long Term Parking\" of the fifth and \"Members Only\", \"Join the Club\", \"Kennedy and Heidi\", \"The Second Coming\" and \"The Blue Comet\" of the sixth season.\n\n\"The Sopranos\" won and was nominated for a large number of awards over the course of its original broadcast. It was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series in every year it was eligible, and is the first cable TV series to receive a nomination for the award. After being nominated for and losing the award in 1999, 2000, 2001, and 2003 (losing the first time to \"The Practice\" and the last three to \"The West Wing\"), \"The Sopranos\" won the award in 2004, and again in 2007. Its 2004 win made \"The Sopranos\" the first series on a cable network to win the award, while its 2007 win made the show the first drama series since \"Upstairs, Downstairs\" in 1977 to win the award after it had finished airing. The show earned 21 nominations for Outstanding Writing for a Drama Series and won the award six times, with creator David Chase receiving three awards.\n\n\"The Sopranos\" won at least one Emmy Award for acting in every eligible year except 2006 and 2007. James Gandolfini and Edie Falco were each nominated six times for Outstanding Lead Actor and Actress, respectively, both winning a total of three awards. Joe Pantoliano won an Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actor in 2003, and Michael Imperioli and Drea de Matteo also won Emmys in 2004 for their supporting roles on the show. Other actors who have received Emmy nominations for the series include Lorraine Bracco (in the Lead Actress and Supporting Actress categories), Dominic Chianese, Nancy Marchand, Aida Turturro, Tim Daly, John Heard, Annabella Sciorra and Steve Buscemi, who was also nominated for directing the episode \"Pine Barrens\".\n\nIn 1999 and 2000, \"The Sopranos\" earned two consecutive George Foster Peabody Awards. Only three other series have won the award in consecutive years: \"Northern Exposure\", \"The West Wing\", and \"Breaking Bad\". The show also received numerous nominations at the Golden Globe Awards (winning the award for Best Drama Series in 2000) and the major guild awards (Directors, Producers, Writers, and Actors).\n\n\"The Sopranos\" had a significant effect on the shape of the American television industry. It has been characterized by critics as one of the most influential artistic works of the 2000s and has been cited as helping to turn serial television into a legitimate art form on the same level as feature films, literature, and theater. \"Time Magazine\" editor James Poniewozik wrote in 2007, \"This mafia saga showed just how complex and involving TV storytelling could be, inspiring an explosion of ambitious dramas on cable and off.\"\nMaureen Ryan of PopMatters described \"The Sopranos\" as the most influential television drama ever. \"No one-hour drama series has had a bigger impact on how stories are told on the small screen, or more influence on what kind of fare we’ve been offered by an ever-growing array of television networks.\"\nHal Boedeker stated in PopMatters in 2007 that the series was \"widely influential for revealing that cable would accommodate complex series about dark characters. \"The Sopranos\" ushered in \"Six Feet Under\", \"The Shield\", \"Rescue Me\", and \"Big Love\".\"\n\nThe series helped establish HBO as producers of critically acclaimed and commercially successful original television series. Michael Flaherty of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" has stated that \"The Sopranos\" \"helped launch [HBO's] reputation as a destination for talent looking for cutting-edge original series work.\"\n\nThe show has frequently been criticized for perpetuating negative stereotypes about Italian Americans. Several major organizations have voiced their concern that \"The Sopranos\" presents a very distorted and harmful stereotype of Italian Americans and their cultural values, including the National Italian American Foundation, Order Sons of Italy in America, Unico National, and the Italic Institute of America.\n\nIn 2000, officials in Essex County, New Jersey denied producers permission to film on county-owned property, arguing that the show depicts Italian Americans in a \"less than favorable light.\" In 2002, organizers of the New York City Columbus Day Parade won an injunction preventing Mayor Michael Bloomberg from inviting cast members of \"The Sopranos\" to participate in the parade.\n\nFairleigh Dickinson University's PublicMind conducted a national survey in August 2001 which polled 800 people. 37% said that they watched the show regularly, and 65% of this group (192 people, or 24% of the total) disagreed that the show portrayed Italian Americans in a negative way. Professor William Roberts was associated with the poll, and is the author of several books on modern Italian history; he commented that: \"The show's inflated image of organized crime casts a shadow over both the state and its Italian American community.\"\n\nAt the end of the series, the PublicMind conducted a second national survey on \"The Sopranos\". In this poll, 41% of the 776 people polled said that they watched the show regularly, and 61% of this group (194 people, or 25% of the total) disagreed with the idea that the show portrayed Italian Americans in a negative light. Professor Roberts stated: \"The show helped to perpetuate one of the more problematic and stereotypical images of Italian Americans. Both Italian and Italian American cultures have much more diverse and interesting heritages than the American public generally realizes.\" Humanities professor Camille Paglia, herself an Italian American, has spoken negatively about \"The Sopranos\", arguing that its depiction of Italian Americans was inaccurate, inauthentic, and dated.\n\nChase has defended his show, saying that it is not meant to stereotype all Italian Americans, only to depict a small criminal subculture.\n\nA video game based on the series titled \"The Sopranos: Road to Respect\" was released for the PlayStation 2 by THQ in November 2006.\n\nIn March 2018, New Line Cinema announced that they had purchased a film detailing the background story of \"The Sopranos\", set in the 1960s during the Newark riots. Titled \"The Many Saints of Newark\", it is written by David Chase and Lawrence Konner and will be directed by Alan Taylor. On November 20, 2018, it was reported that Alessandro Nivola had been cast in the film as Christopher Moltisanti's father Dickie.\n\nAll six seasons were released as DVD box sets, with the final season released in two parts; two different versions of the complete series were also released. The sixth season (both parts 1 and 2) was also released on Blu-ray Disc and HD DVD in 2006 and 2007, respectively. The first season was released on Blu-ray in 2009. A complete series box set was released on Blu-ray on November 4, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57480198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57480198", "title": "Thupavamsa", "text": "Thupavamsa\n\nThe Thūpavaṃsa (\"Chronicle of the Stupa\") is a Sri Lankan historical chronicle and religious text recorded in the Pali language. It's composition is attributed to a Buddhist monk known as Vācissara, the putative author of several Pali and Sinhala commentaries and handbooks. It was likely composed in the second half of the 13th Century.\n\nThe \"Thupavamsa\" follows the structure of the \"Mahavamsa\" and other Pali chronicles- it begins with the story of past Buddhas, describes the life of Buddha Shakyamuni, Ashoka's missions, and the arrival of various Buddha relics and a sapling of the Bodhi tree in Sri Lanka. It was composed in Sanskritized Pali typical of the era in Sri Lanka.\n\nThe second half of the book is devoted to describing the reign of King Dutugamunu, focusing on his construction of the Mahathupa ('Great Stupa') at Anuradhapura. The relics enshrined in the stupa are traced back to the division of relics recorded in the Mahaparinibbana Sutta.\n\nThe \"Thupavamsa\" overlaps significantly with the Mahabodhivamsa, and portions of it are included in the extended (or Kambodian) Mahavamsa. Material for the \"Thupavamsa\" seems to have been borrowed from the \"Mahavamsa\", Jataka-Nidana-katha, Samanta-pasadika, and the Mahavamsa commentary.\n\nThe colophon of the Pali version identifies its author, Vācissara, listing several Sinhala compositions attributed to him and describing him as a relative or dependent of King Parakrama. Vācissara seems to be the same individual who was a senior Sangha leader under Vijaya-Bahu III, and whose name is included in a listing of learned monks and laymen in the Raja-ratnakara. Vācissara identifies two works that he relied on in composing the Thupavamsa, an unknown Sinhala chronicle and an older Pali text identified with the lost Cetiya-vamsattha-kathathat by scholars.\n\nTwo versions of the Thupavamsa are preserved, one in Pali and one in Sinhala. The Sinhala version seems to be an expansion of the Pali chronicle, but the situation is complicated by the fact that both existent versions seem to have relied on earlier, Sinhala language sources in addition to the Mahavamsa and its commentary. Some 19th Century scholars suggested that the Sinhala Thupavamsa was actually the earlier work and the Sinhala source of the Pali version, but this possibility is now discounted by scholars. The Sinhala version identifies its author as Parakrama Pandita, whose name appears in a list of 'learned laymen' composed in the 13th Century.\n\n"}
{"id": "16330070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16330070", "title": "Tulsi Samman", "text": "Tulsi Samman\n\nThe Tulsi Samman is an arts award presented annually by the government of Madhya Pradesh state in India. The award is named after Tulsi Das, an Indian saint, poet and philosopher, best known as the author of \"Ramacharitamanas\", an epic devoted to Lord Rama. This award is presented for outstanding achievement in one of the four categories of the tribal, traditional and folk arts. These categories are: art, theatre, dance and music.\n\nThe recipients of the Tulsi Samman include:\n\n2008-09 rangaswami vedar\n\n"}
{"id": "2624777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2624777", "title": "Ulster loyalism", "text": "Ulster loyalism\n\nUlster loyalism is a political ideology found primarily among Ulster Protestants in Northern Ireland, whose status as a part of the United Kingdom has remained controversial. Most Ulster Protestants are descendants of settlers from Great Britain in the 17th and 18th centuries. Like unionists, loyalists are attached to the British monarchy, support the continued existence of Northern Ireland, and oppose a united Ireland. Ulster loyalism has been described as a kind of ethnic nationalism and \"a variation of British nationalism\". It is strongly associated with paramilitarism.\n\nUlster loyalism emerged in the late 19th century, as a response to the Irish Home Rule movement, and the rise of Catholic Irish nationalism. Although most of Ireland was Catholic, in the province of Ulster, Protestants were the majority. Ulster was also more industrialized than other parts of Ireland and was heavily dependent on trade with Britain. Loyalism began as a self-determination movement among Ulster Protestants who did not want to become part of an autonomous Ireland. While some Irish Catholics were also unionist, loyalism emphasized a Protestant and British heritage. These movements led to the partition of Ireland in 1921; most of Ireland became an independent state, while about two-thirds of Ulster remained within the United Kingdom as a self-governing territory called Northern Ireland. Loyalists often use 'Ulster' as an alternative name for Northern Ireland.\n\nSince partition, most loyalists have supported upholding Northern Ireland's status as a part of the United Kingdom, i.e. unionism. Historically, the terms 'unionist' and 'loyalist' were often used interchangeably; however, since the resurgence of loyalist paramilitarism in the 1960s (at the start of The Troubles), a distinction between the two is made more often. The term 'loyalist' is now usually used to describe working class unionists who are willing to use, or tacitly support, paramilitary violence to defend the Union with Britain. Loyalists are also described as being loyal primarily to the Protestant British monarchy rather than to the British government and institutions. Garret FitzGerald argued that loyalists are loyal primarily to 'Ulster' rather than to 'the Union'. A small minority of loyalists have called for an independent Ulster Protestant state, believing that they cannot rely on the British government to prevent Irish reunification (see Ulster nationalism).\n\nIn Northern Ireland there is a long tradition of militaristic loyalist Protestant marching bands. There are hundreds of such bands who hold numerous parades each year. The yearly Eleventh Night (11 July) bonfires and The Twelfth (12 July) parades are strongly associated with loyalism.\n\nThe term \"loyalist\" was first used in Irish politics in the 1790s to refer to Protestants who opposed Catholic Emancipation and Irish independence from Great Britain.\n\nUpon the partition of Ireland in 1921, six of the nine counties in the province of Ulster did not join the newly independent Irish Free State (later the Republic of Ireland) and remained a part of the United Kingdom. Academically cited records from 1926 indicate that at that stage 33.5% of the Northern Ireland population was Roman Catholic, with 62.2% belonging to the three major Protestant denominations (Presbyterian 31.3%, Church of Ireland 27%, Methodist 3.9%).\n\nTensions between Northern Ireland's Catholic population (which mostly supported Irish reunification) and its Protestant population (which mostly supported remaining part of the UK) led to a long-running bloody conflict known as the Troubles from the late 1960s to the late 1990s.\n\n\nIn Great Britain, a number of small far-right parties have and still do express support for loyalist paramilitaries, and loyalism in general. This includes the British National Front (who registered to stand in Northern Ireland), the British People's Party and Britain First.\n\nBigger and more moderate right-wing unionist parties like the Ulster Unionists (UUP) or Democratic Unionists (DUP) usually seek to distance themselves from loyalist paramilitary activity. However, Ian Paisley and his Democratic Unionist Party have been involved with Ulster Resistance and worked alongside loyalist paramilitaries such as the Ulster Defence Association in the 1974 Ulster Workers' Council Strikes and the 1977 Loyalist Association of Workers strike.\n\nLoyalist paramilitary and vigilante groups have been active since the early 20th century. In 1912, the Ulster Volunteers were formed to stop the British Government granting self-rule to Ireland, or to exclude Ulster from it. This led to the Home Rule Crisis, which was defused by the onset of World War I. Loyalist paramilitaries were again active in Ulster during the Irish War of Independence (1919–22), and more prominently during the Troubles (late 1960s–1998). The biggest and most active paramilitary groups existed during the Troubles, and were the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), and the Ulster Defence Association (UDA)/Ulster Freedom Fighters (UFF). They, and most other loyalist paramilitaries, are classified as terrorist organizations.\n\nDuring the Troubles, their stated goals were to combat Irish republicanism – particularly the Irish Republican Army (IRA) – and to defend Protestant loyalist areas. However, the vast majority of their victims were Irish Catholic civilians, who were often killed at random in sectarian attacks. Whenever they claimed responsibility for attacks, loyalists usually claimed that those targeted were IRA members or were helping the IRA. M. L. R. Smith wrote that \"From the outset, the loyalist paramilitaries tended to regard all Catholics as potential rebels\". Other times, attacks on Catholic civilians were claimed as \"retaliation\" for IRA actions, since the IRA drew most of its support from the Catholic community. Such retaliation was seen as both collective punishment and an attempt to weaken the IRA's support; some loyalists argued that terrorizing the Catholic community and inflicting a high death toll on it would eventually force the IRA to end its campaign.\n\nLoyalist paramilitaries were responsible for about 30% of all deaths in the Troubles, and were responsible for about 48% of all civilian deaths.\n\nThe \"modus operandi\" of loyalist paramilitaries involved assassinations, mass shootings, bombings and kidnappings. They used sub machine-guns, assault rifles, pistols, grenades (including homemade grenades), incendiary bombs, booby trap bombs and car bombs. Bomb attacks were usually made without warning. However, gun attacks were more common than bombings. In January 1994, the UDA drew up a 'doomsday plan', to be implemented should the British Army withdraw from Northern Ireland. It called for ethnic cleansing and re-partition, with the goal of making Northern Ireland wholly Protestant.\n\nSome loyalist paramilitaries have had links with far-right and Neo-Nazi groups in Britain, including Combat 18, the British National Socialist Movement, and the British National Front. Since the 1990s, loyalist paramilitaries have been responsible for numerous racist attacks in loyalist areas. A 2006 report revealed that of all reported racist attacks in the previous two years, 90% occurred in loyalist areas.\n\nIn the 1990s, the main loyalist paramilitaries called ceasefires. Following this, small breakaway groups continued to wage violent campaigns for a number of years, and members of loyalist groups have continued to engage in sporadic violence.\n\n\n\nThe name Protestant Action Force (PAF) was also occasionally used by loyalists during the Troubles. It has been suggested that PAF was a covername used by a semi-independent group (or groups) within the UVF who were carrying out attacks on their own initiative or without the sanction of the UVF leadership.\n\nThere were incidents of collusion between the British security forces (the British Army and RUC) and loyalist paramilitaries. This included soldiers and policemen taking part in loyalist attacks while off-duty, giving weapons and intelligence to loyalists, not taking action against them, and hindering police investigations. The \"De Silva Report\" found that, during the 1980s, 85% of the intelligence loyalists used to target people came from the security forces. The security forces also had double agents and informers within loyalist groups who organised attacks on the orders of, or with the knowledge of, their handlers. Of the 210 loyalists arrested by the Stevens Inquiries team, 207 were found to be state agents or informers.\n\nThe British Army's locally recruited Ulster Defence Regiment (UDR) was almost wholly Protestant. Despite the vetting process, some loyalist militants managed to enlist; mainly to obtain weapons, training and intelligence. A 1973 British Government document (uncovered in 2004), \"Subversion in the UDR\", suggested that 5–15% of UDR soldiers then were members of loyalist paramilitaries. The report said the UDR was the main source of weapons for those groups, although by 1973 UDR weapons losses had dropped significantly, partly due to stricter controls. By 1990, at least 197 UDR soldiers had been convicted of loyalist terrorist offences, including 19 convicted of murder. This was only a small fraction of those who served in it, but the proportion was higher than the regular Army, the RUC and the civilian population.\n\nInitially, the Army allowed soldiers to be members of the Ulster Defence Association (UDA). Despite its involvement in terrorism, the UDA was not outlawed by the British Government until 1992. In July 1972, Harry Tuzo (the Army's GOC in Northern Ireland) devised a strategy to defeat the IRA, backed by Michael Carver, head of the British Army. It proposed that the growth of the UDA \"should be discreetly encouraged in Protestant areas, to reduce the load on the Security Forces\", and suggested they \"turn a blind eye to UDA arms when confined to their own areas\". That summer, the Army mounted some joint patrols with the UDA in Protestant areas. In November 1972 the Army ordered that a soldier should be discharged if his sympathy for a paramilitary group affected his performance, loyalty or impartiality. Within three years, 171 soldiers with UDA links had been discharged.\n\nDuring the 1970s, the Glenanne gang—a secret alliance of loyalist militants, British soldiers and RUC officers—carried out a string of attacks against Catholics/nationalists in an area of Northern Ireland known as the \"murder triangle\". It also carried out some attacks in the Republic of Ireland. \"Lethal Allies: British Collusion in Ireland\" claims the group killed about 120 people, mostly uninvolved civilians. The \"Cassel Report\" investigated 76 murders attributed to the group and found evidence that soldiers and policemen were involved in 74 of those. One member, RUC officer John Weir, claimed his superiors knew of the collusion but allowed it to continue. The \"Cassel Report\" also said some senior officers knew of the crimes but did nothing to stop it. Attacks attributed to the group include the Dublin and Monaghan bombings (1974), the Miami Showband killings (1975) and the Reavey and O'Dowd killings (1976).\n\nIn 1977, the Army investigated a UDR battalion based at Girdwood Barracks, Belfast. The investigation found that 70 soldiers had links to the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), that thirty soldiers had fraudulently diverted up to £47,000 to the UVF, and that UVF members socialized with soldiers in their mess. Following this, two were dismissed. The investigation was halted after a senior officer claimed it was harming morale. Details of it were uncovered in 2011.\n\nThe Stevens Inquiries found that elements of the British security forces had used loyalists as \"proxies\". Through their double-agents and informers, they helped loyalist groups to kill people, including civilians. It concluded that this had intensified and prolonged the conflict. The Army's Force Research Unit (FRU) was the main agency involved. Brian Nelson, the UDA's chief 'intelligence officer', was a FRU agent. Through Nelson, FRU helped loyalists target people for assassination. FRU say they helped loyalists target only republican activists and prevented the killing of civilians. The Inquiries found evidence only two lives were saved and that Nelson/FRU was responsible for at least 30 murders and many other attacks – many on civilians. One victim was solicitor Pat Finucane. Nelson also supervised the shipping of weapons to loyalists in 1988. From 1992 to 1994, loyalists were responsible for more deaths than republicans, partly due to FRU. Members of the security forces tried to obstruct the Stevens investigation.\n\nA 2007 Police Ombudsman report revealed that UVF members had been allowed to commit a string of terrorist offences while working as informers for RUC Special Branch. It found that Special Branch had given informers immunity and had blocked weapons searches. Ombudsman Nuala O'Loan said this led to \"hundreds\" of deaths and said senior British Government officials pressured her into halting her investigation. UVF brigadier Robin 'the Jackal' Jackson has been linked to between 50 and 100 killings, although he was never convicted of any. It has been alleged by many people, including members of the security forces, that Jackson was an RUC agent. According to the Irish Government's \"Barron Report\", he was also \"reliably said to have had relationships with British Intelligence\".\n\nOther incidents of alleged collusion between loyalists and the security forces include the McGurk's Bar bombing, the 1972 and 1973 Dublin bombings, the Milltown Cemetery attack, the Cappagh killings, the Sean Graham bookmakers' shooting, the Loughinisland massacre, and the murders of Robert Hamill, Rosemary Nelson, and Eddie Fullerton.\n\nIn Northern Ireland there are a number of Protestant fraternities and marching bands who hold yearly parades. They include the Orange Order and Apprentice Boys of Derry. These fraternities, often described as the \"Loyal Orders\", have long been associated with unionism, and loyalism in particular. There are also hundreds of Protestant marching bands in Northern Ireland, many of whom hold loyalist views and use loyalist symbols. Yearly events such as the Eleventh Night (11 July) bonfires and The Twelfth (12 July) parades are strongly associated with loyalism. A report published in 2013 estimated there were at least 640 marching bands in Northern Ireland with a total membership of around 30,000, an all-time high. According to the Parades Commission, a total of 1,354 loyalist parades (not counting funerals) were held in Northern Ireland in 2007. The Police Service of Northern Ireland uses different statistics, and recorded a total of 2,863 parades in 2007. Of these, 2,270 (approximately 80%) were held by loyalist marching bands. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21550783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21550783", "title": "Universal design for instruction", "text": "Universal design for instruction\n\nUniversal instructional design (UID) or universal design for instruction (UDI) is an educational framework for applying universal design principles to learning environments with a goal toward greater accessibility for all students, including students with disabilities. UDI involves considering the potential needs of all learners when designing and delivering instruction by identifying and eliminating unnecessary barriers to teaching and learning while maintaining academic rigor. UDI is thus proactive and benefits all students, in contrast to providing accommodations for a specific student (e.g., providing a sign language interpreter for a student who is deaf).\n\nUniversal Design for Instruction (UDI) applies and adapts universal design principles and the Principles of Universal Design to learning environments and learning products, with a goal toward maximizing learning for all students.\n\nUniversal design (UD), a concept pioneered by architect Ronald Mace at North Carolina State University (NCSU), refers to buildings, products, and environments that are inherently accessible to both people without disabilities and people with disabilities. The Center for Universal Design at NCSU established a set of Principles of Universal Design based on UD to guide and evaluate the design process, with a goal toward creating more accessible products and environments. Universal Design for Instruction is an educational framework and set of strategies that applies both UD and the Principles of Universal Design to academic and teaching environments, learning products, and learning materials.\n\nSpecific UDI frameworks and educational initiatives vary between academic and policy institutions. The Center for Universal Design in Education (CUDE) at the DO-IT Center (University of Washington) combines UD, the Principles of Universal Design and Universal Design for Learning (UDL) to create UDI strategies for applying universal design to educational products and environments. Each CUDE strategy is linked with relevant principles of UD and UDL. Using a different approach, the Center on Postsecondary Education and Disability at the University of Connecticut developed a set of UDI principles that draws on the work of Chickering and Gamson, who had originally published a set of principles for more inclusive postsecondary education, as well as the Principles of Universal Design.\n\nThe original seven Principles of Universal Design for products and environments established by the Center for Universal Design at NSCU follow; UDI applies these principles to learning environments.\n\n\nThe DO-IT Center's Center for Universal Design in Education (CUDE) combines UDI strategies and UD principles with the more specific Universal Design for Learning (UDL) framework. Universal Design for Learning (UDL) is \"a set of principles for curriculum development that give all individuals equal opportunities to learn.\" UDL guidelines encourage curriculum designers to provide the student with options with respect to the following:\n\n\nThe University of Connecticut researchers and practitioners propose nine principles that describe a successful implementation of Universal Design \"for\" Instruction. Four of them state that materials and activities should be:\n\n\nThree principles for universal design for instruction state that the learning environment should:\n\nUniversal design for instruction includes two more principles related to the delivery environment:\n\n\nWays of applying UD to instruction include those listed below.\n\n\nThe Center for Universal Design in Education (CUDE) at the DO-IT Center describes UDI as \"a goal, a process, and a set of practices.\" According to CUDE, the UDI process is described as the following series of steps:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38421372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38421372", "title": "Vivid Sydney", "text": "Vivid Sydney\n\nVivid Sydney is an annual festival of light, music and ideas, held in Sydney. It includes outdoor immersive light installations and projections, performances by local and international musicians, and an ideas exchange forum featuring public talks and debates with leading creative thinkers.\n\nThis event takes place over the course of three weeks in May and June. The centrepiece of Vivid Sydney is the light sculptures, multimedia interactive work and building projections that transform various buildings and landmarks such as the Opera House and Harbour Bridge in and around the Sydney central business district into an outdoor night time canvas of art.\n\nDuring the 2015 festival, sites of interest were Central Park, Chatswood and the University of Sydney as well as around the CBD, Darling Harbour and The Rocks.\n\nVivid began as a Smart light festival in 2009 for energy efficiency curated by lighting designer Mary-Anne Kyriakou and headlined by Brian Eno who in collaboration with lighting designer Bruce Ramus, projected light painting onto both sides of the Opera House.\n\nAccording to New South Wales Deputy Premier and government Andrew Stoner, Vivid 2012 attracted more than 500,000 visitors to the outdoor exhibition and events, generating around $10 million in income for the state, whereas Vivid 2013 attracted more than 800,000 visitors, contributing more than $20 million to the NSW economy.\n\nIn 2014, the festival involved the Opera House, Walsh Bay, Circular Quay, The Rocks, North Sydney, Darling Harbour, and, joining in for the first time, Harbour Lights, The Star and Carriageworks. A new projected work by London based creative team 59 Productions illuminated the sails of the Sydney Opera House.\n\nIn 2015, Vivid Sydney attracted more than 1.7 million visitors to the city. The 2016 Vivid event included an expanded program of multi-genre music, stimulating presentations and Vivid Talks from global presenters and dazzling light projections across the city. In 2016, a display was added at Taronga Zoo.\n\nIn 2016, Vivid Sydney was extended to 23 nights and was attended by more than 2.3 million people. \n\nIn 2017, Vivid Sydney attracted a record 2.33 million attendees and injected over $143 million into NSW’s visitor economy.\n\nAt Vivid Sydney, there are many opportunities for individuals to interact with the unique technology that is offered. Exhibits at Vivid Sydney are all numbered based on their location and these numbers are all displayed on a map. While there are multiple larger light shows such as the ones displayed on the Opera House and the Harbour Bridge, there are also multiple smaller exhibits located around the harbour.\n\nOne of the interactive activities in the harbor was called Musical cubes. In this activity, a group of 6 individuals would take part in a musical experiment. Each member would be given a three dimensional cube. Each cube represented a different instrument (Guitar, Piano, Synths, etc.) and each side of the cube would represent a different pace (measured in beats per minute). Every member of the group would take their cube, select a side, and place the cube on a table. A computer program would then interpret all the information from the cubes and play the resulting musical beat over loud speakers that surrounded the table. Participants would be allowed to change the tempo of their instrument and as they changed them, the program would react to reflect the change and play the new tune.\n\nAnother activity located in the harbor was called the Heart of the City. This was one of the more popular activities at Vivid Sydney 2015 due to its immersive nature. The Heart of the City resembled a large, solid beanbag chair and was located near the Sydney Opera House. Upon reaching the front of the line, participants would be asked to seat themselves in the middle of the chair. Once seated, they would be instructed by a Vivid Sydney volunteer to insert their finger into a small hole located near the chair. If your finger was inserted correctly, the chair would begin to light up red to match your heartbeat. As participants began to notice this, their heart rate sometimes increased causing the chair to light up more rapidly.\n\n\n"}
