{"id": "43607395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43607395", "title": "Alexander Golod", "text": "Alexander Golod\n\nAlexander Golod is a Ukrainian former defense contractor and current scientist and alternative healer, focusing on pyramid research. He has theorized that pyramid structures have energy forces that bring several benefits, for both man and the environment. He has constructed seventeen fiberglass pyramids throughout Russia, the tallest at a height of 132 feet.\nHe believes that the ancient Egyptians had knowledge of this power and that it was the motivation, at least in part, for their building the Great Pyramids of Giza.\n\nMany paranormal researchers and writers have long speculated about the potential energy properties of pyramid structures. Many theories are prevalent in the research, with writers believing pyramids to have several beneficial properties. Golod's research has been done whilst coordinating a team of scientists. The Russian Academy of Medical Sciences supports his research.\n\nGolod has constructed over twenty pyramids across Russia and former Soviet satellites out of fiberglass and other materials. The largest of these structures is 44 meters high and weighs roughly 55 tons. Golod believes that the pyramid shape channels Earth's magnetic fields and creates positive energy fields that can be harnessed and controlled for man's use. Inside the largest he has placed a number of benches and large globes – geographical, topographical, and astronomical - for tourists to enjoy.\n\nAmong the many benefits Golod has claimed is a cause of these pyramids are:\n\nGolod also reported held an experiment on prisoners in which they were fed food that had been exposed to the pyramid. The prison reported that acts of violence diminished significantly. Russian astronauts were also reported to have taken objects and water from the pyramid on board the International Space Station to keep themselves healthy. He has also stated “If you put some cheap wine in here, it becomes superior to the finest vintage”. Athletes are reported to visit the pyramid to receive a boost of energy and strength from its powers.\n\nTourists come from all around the former Soviet states, as well as globally, to see the pyramids, which can be visited free of charge. Golod earns revenues through merchandise reportedly “energized” by the pyramid, including crystals and bottled water. In addition, it is common for weddings and other special events to be held within. A number of tourists have claimed they experienced positive results after visiting the pyramid. Success stories range from barren women being able to conceive after exposure, to the ozone layer above Russia being repaired.\n\nMany Russian doctors and scientists have claimed that the effects are likely psychological when someone enters the pyramid and expects to feel better. Many believe the pyramids are simply a tourist gimmick. There is no scientific consensus on the plausibility of Golod's research. Critics also state empirical evidence is lacking to prove that the pyramids are the actual cause of any healing or other benefits. Mainstream scientists, especially in the west, do not accept his theories due a substantial lack of published scientific evidence, with Golod relying heavily on observational inference.\n\nThere are also a number of tourists who do not share the same enthusiasm as others, claiming that they experienced no changes whatsoever from exposure to the pyramid. Those with ailments did not recover or feel any better. In one case, after hearing of the greater crop yield, one farmer brought his seeds to the pyramid, only to yield a worse crop than the previous season.\n\nGolod and his family live near one of the pyramids he has constructed. He is married with children and grandsons.\n"}
{"id": "5740294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5740294", "title": "Azlan McLennan", "text": "Azlan McLennan\n\nAzlan McLennan (born 1975 in the United States) is a visual artist and socialist activist based in Melbourne, Australia. He is a graduate of the Victorian College of the Arts. His art is known for its political content and has been the subject of considerable debate and media attention in Australia.\n\nConceptually, McLennan's work tends to be unambiguous and antagonistic from a left-wing perspective, loosely following the traditions of agitprop, anti-art and Institutional Critique, incorporating elements of détournement, readymade or installation. His works have often been characterised as controversial by conservative politicians, journalists and art critics, usually portraying the artist in a negative light. Alternatively, various liberal lawyers, academics and activists have defended his works, usually on the basis of free speech, due to the offence sometimes caused by his art for its often overt left-leaning bias. The artist has expressed public criticisms over Zionism, the War on Terror, Australian nationalism and racism, the mandatory detention of asylum seekers, various political figures and the managerial class of the art world.\n\nMcLennan has cited the artists John Heartfield and Leon Kuhn as influences. He has work in collections of the National Gallery of Australia and the National Library of Australia.\n\nMcLennan is a member of the Trotskyist organisation Socialist Alternative. Previously, he has been associated with the Socialist Alliance, the Stop the War Coalition, Students for Palestine, the Refugee Action Collective, the University of Melbourne Graduate Student Association, the Victorian College of the Arts Student Union and the United Voice trade union. He regularly produces posters for the Australian far left's various political demonstrations and meetings. He has written articles for the publications of both Socialist Alternative and the Socialist Alliance.\n\nIn August 2003, McLennan hired a Group 4 Securicor guard to keep gallery punters out of an exhibition opening at the VCA. Group 4 run immigration detention centres in Australia, such as Baxter Detention Centre and the now closed Woomera Detention Centre. The security guard was reportedly humiliated due to the incident which occurred at a time of high criticism of the John Howard government's treatment of asylum seekers.\n\nIn May 2004, McLennan produced \"Fifty-six,\" an exhibition designed to coincide with Nakba Day, the title drawing on the number of years since the establishment of Israel. The public exhibition in the shop front window space of 24seven Gallery on one of Melbourne CBD's busy streets, was censored by the City of Melbourne days after it was installed. The installation consisted of a large wall painting of an Israeli flag, with \"debatable\" statistics on the gallery's window about Israel's treatment of Palestinians. The scandal made international news, many pro-Israel individuals and groups accusing McLennan of antisemitism. This put a number of Victorian political figures such as former Premier Steve Bracks, Lord Mayor John So and former City of Melbourne councillor Kimberly Kitching under pressure to respond. The use of taxpayer's money to fund the space fuelled a lot of the debate. McLennan also deeply outraged some critics by insinuating that the Nazis had a similar position on what they termed degenerate art. McLennan maintains a strong criticism of Israeli policies.\n\nIn August 2004, McLennan displayed \"State Sponsored\", a collection of portraits of Hamas militants, including Sheikh Ahmed Yassin and Dr. Abdul Aziz Rantisi and the dates they were assassinated. The work was exhibited at Citylights project – a public art space in a Melbourne CBD lane way. McLennan was accused of glorifying terrorism by Ted Lapkin, a senior policy analyst of the Australia/Israel & Jewish Affairs Council. Andrew Mac, Citylights' curator and director defended the work on the grounds of diversity of opinion stating the artist's use of \"state sponsored\" referred to state terrorism.\n\nIn September 2005, the City of Melbourne intervened to terminate McLennan's \"Canberra's 18\" exhibition shortly before it was scheduled to be shown at the Platform artists group's Artist-run initiative (ARI), Platform 2. The exhibition was to include images of the then 18 Islamic organisations proscribed as terrorists by the Australian Government and the basis for their formation. City of Melbourne Deputy Mayor Gary Singer claimed the proper guidelines were not followed. Human rights campaigner and barrister Julian Burnside claimed the censorship was about governments testing how much Australians would tolerate such occurrences. McLennan accused City of Melbourne of political censorship and appeasing Zionists. Singer's areas of special interests ironically include civil liberties.\n\nMonash University Art and Design Faculty in Melbourne withdrew McLennan's video \"Mind the Gap\" in October 2005, ironically made for the same exhibition Monash had agreed to show the censored \"Canberra's 18\" work. The video contained graphic footage of the beheading of British contractor Kenneth Bigley by Tawhid and Jihad in 2004. The video criticised former British Prime Minister Tony Blair for his role in the Iraq war. The censorship is likely to have been motivated by the Australian Anti-Terrorism Bill 2005, particularly the controversial return to the crime of sedition introduced by the Howard government some weeks later and passed into law the following month; a move highly unpopular amongst the arts sector.\n\nCity of Melbourne and acting Transport Minister Bob Cameron censored \"Pay Your Way\" in January 2006 while McLennan was in residency in Indonesia. The posters – part of the Urbanart ARI program – were displayed in public tram shelters and pulled down only hours later due to complaints. The works featured images of Jean Charles de Menezes, a Brazilian man shot dead by London police and accused Muslim terrorist, Jack Thomas. The works were characterised as racist and Islamophobic, yet McLennan claimed the works were satirising the post 9-11 racism and Islamophobia perpetuated by pro-US governments. McLennan is also a Muslim himself. Thomas' lawyer, Rob Stary attacked the work for jeopardising the trial yet weeks later would defend McLennan publicly against the Footscray police.\n\nOnly weeks after the \"Pay Your Way\" affair, McLennan's \"Proudly UnAustralian\" was removed by the Victoria Police in Melbourne. The exhibition – featuring a burnt Australian flag – took place at Trocadero Art Space who rents a public billboard to exhibiting artists. It was to coincide with the 2006 Australia Day in January. The work was removed some days prior this date and McLennan arrived back in Australia days later to a media furore. The scandal had been criticised as offensive by those such as Federal Liberal Party MP Bronwyn Bishop who attempted to introduce a ban on flag burning, and the national president of the Returned and Services League. Free speech advocates such as the National Association for the Visual Arts and criminal defence lawyer Rob Stary denounced the police's actions as an attack on civil rights. This took place only a few short months after the 2005 Cronulla riots and fuelled the broader debate about racism in Australia.\n\nMcLennan wrote an article in 2006 criticising the Artistic Director of the Australian Centre for Contemporary Art (ACCA), Juliana Engberg over her reaction to artist and VCA student, Ash Keating and his appropriation of ACCA's waste disposal for the use of his art. The Engberg/Keating scandal became widely known amongst Melbourne art circles from the ACCA exhibition opening where it took place and later through the independent electronic magazine Crikey. McLennan's polemic further fuelled debate over Engberg's credentials.\n\nMcLennan featured in \"Rules of Engagement\" at Melbourne ARI West Space in May 2007, which dealt with \"relationships, power and exchange within the art system\" according to the show's curator Mark Feary. McLennan's contribution, \"Art in a Capitalist Society\" depicted an authoritative picture of leading private Australian gallerist Anna Schwartz, linked to a quote about exploitation from the Karl Marx treatise \"Das Kapital\". Schwartz has previously criticised McLennan and some have accused McLennan of taking revenge.\n\nIn a July 2009, \"Farrago\" interview, McLennan attacked the University of Melbourne over the merger with the Victorian College of the Arts, the Melbourne Model, the liquidation of the VCA Student Union and likened the Vice-chancellor, Glyn Davis' perceived political censorship to Adolf Hitler's use of Fascist Art and Joseph Stalin's use of Socialist Realism. He also depicted Davis and the Provost, Peter McPhee, as Sex Pistols musicians, Johnny Rotten and Sid Vicious in a parody of the Never Mind the Bollocks album cover as well as depicting Davis as the violent psychopath, Alex DeLarge in Stanley Kubrick's film adaptation of A Clockwork Orange. McLennan had previously attacked Davis and the university administration as the former General Secretary of the VCA Student Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "9364056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9364056", "title": "Behemoth (Hobbes book)", "text": "Behemoth (Hobbes book)\n\nBehemoth, full title Behemoth: the history of the causes of the civil wars of England, and of the counsels and artifices by which they were carried on from the year 1640 to the year 1660, also known as The Long Parliament, is a book written by Thomas Hobbes discussing the English Civil War. Published posthumously in 1681, it was written in 1668, but remained unpublished at the request of Charles II of England.\n\n\"Behemoth\" was written in 1668 as a follow-up to a previous and scandalous political work, \"Leviathan\" (1651). \"Leviathan\" is a representation of an ideal political world, and \"Behemoth\" has been considered to be a contrasting treatise on what happens when the very worst abuses of government come to pass. Hobbes applied his understanding of the science of human nature to explain why the English Civil War came to pass. He was able to do this because he \"did not make an impassable gulf between his rational understanding on the one hand and the particular events which he witnessed, remembered, or heard about on the other\". The book is written in the form of a discourse between two men. The first speaker, called only \"A\", is an eyewitness and possible insider to the events of the English Civil War. The second speaker, referred to as \"B\", is a student aiming to understand the breakdown in the government of England at that time. \n\nHobbes was refused permission by King Charles II to publish \"Behemoth\". While the king recognised the correctness of the account of events and issues, he was concerned that the book would not be well received. Charles withheld his permission to publish, in the hope that Hobbes would avoid further scandal, and perhaps see his reputation as a thinker restored.\n\nThe manuscript for \"Behemoth\" was pirated and printed in unauthorised editions in Europe during the 1670s and in a letter to his friend John Aubrey, Hobbes stated his disappointment with this turn of events. An official edition was released three years after Hobbes' death in 1679, by his literary agent William Crooke. According to Aloysius Martinich, \"after its initial success the book was relatively unread and unstudied until there was a resurgence of interest in it in the last quarter of the twentieth century\".\n\n\"Behemoth\" is not entirely factual, accurate or literal in retelling of the events of the English Civil War but still has value for students of the history of thought or revolution. As Royce MacGillivray puts it:\n\nHobbes instead is drawing on his memories of the events and on two other possible sources, both written by James Heath around 1663. These are \"A Brief Chronicle of all the Chief Actions\" and the expanded \"A Brief Chronicle of the Late Intestine Warr\". It is possible they were simply used as prompts for Hobbes, already 80 years old when he wrote \"Behemoth\". According to MacGillivray very little material from these sources found its way directly into the text.\n\n\"The summation below is just that, a summation, and is only the most basic part of each section. No effort is made to correct any inconsistencies introduced into the discussion between the master and the student so that the information may be presented as it was written by Thomas Hobbes.\"\n\nThe 1682 edition of the book begins with a note from William Crooke in answer to why he was publishing this edition. Hobbes had made Crooke the caretaker of his literary estate in July 1679. Crooke knew of the editions of \"Behemoth\" published in Europe and he reasoned that these editions did not show the work in the best possible light due to the many textual errors and omissions. It would therefore be best to publish an authorized edition to correct these errors and show the work as Hobbes wanted it to be read. Crooke had as his source a manuscript copy of the text given to him by Thomas Hobbes around 1670.\n\nThis is the longest section of the book and roughly covers the period 1640–1642.\n\nThe dialogue opens with the student asking the master how it was that a monarch as strong as Charles I should ever have had to face a rebellion. The master relates that a growing opposition to the crown was promoted by seven factions, each of them for their own ends and not in concert, who stoked the fires of rebellion. These factions were: Papists, Presbyterians, Independents including other sects of religious faith, those who were corrupted by their reading of the Latin and Greek classics, centres of commerce and trade such as London, those with no means of support who saw the war as a way to profit, and the lack of understanding as to the important role played by the monarchy in society.\n\nThe motivations of each of these groups and how they contributed to the Civil War is discussed by the master and the student throughout the first part of the book. This section has been considered anti-clerical in its leanings as none of the actions of the religious groups involved are shown in any sort of positive light.\n\nThe Papists wanted to condemn any ruler who did not offer compliance to the will of Rome. As Charles I was officially a Protestant, this was not popular. There were not many Papists in England at this time but they still had a voice that could be heard by their own adherents. \n\nPresbyterian ministers did not like a king whose queen was a known and practising Catholic. This translated itself into speeches calling for the exile of the queen and other Papists. As Catholicism was already severely proscribed against in the late 17th century these calls for expulsion are not unexpected or difficult to understand.\n\nThe Independents and the other sects of the Protestant reformation were advocates of liberty and freedom in certain instances especially in the matter of religious choice. Provided an individual did not want to follow the Roman church their religious views would be tolerated by most of the Protestant groups.\n\nThe issue of an absolute monarchy was a crucial cause of the Civil War according to Hobbes. Many members of the House of Parliament who wanted a monarchy did not want it to be an absolute one. Instead they desired that it act in consultation with the house before taking action. Charles I did not see the powers of the crown as being answerable to any but God. Parliament then acted to withhold required funds from the King in his quest to defeat the rebellious Scots. The Scots, Hobbes tells us, were in arms over the practice of episcopacy. This weakened the power of the crown but Charles I drew on the nobility to supply the needed funds for the war. When this source ran out Charles turned to Parliament to raise the Ship Money, a percentage of customs revenue given to the King for the upkeep of the navy, so that he could use these funds to continue the war against the Scots. Parliament declared that illegal and took the crown to court over the issue.\n\nThe universities are brought into the discussion at this point. They existed as places where one could learn the classics and supposedly sharpen their minds by doing so. Instead they did not have the wit to read the classics critically and took them at their face value. This translated into certain scholars advocating an idealised form of republic to their students. However they did not teach the many virtues of the monarch to their students who came to see the crown as irresponsible.\n\nHobbes reminds his student that obedience is all that is required to live a good and peaceful life. This obedience should extend to the crown as it does to God and one's parents but this is not what was preached by the Protestant clergy. Instead they advised disobedience of royal edicts such as the raising privately of funds for the king's use. When this directive for disobedience was coupled with the teachings of ancient rebellions as a way to remove so called despotic domains it left a fertile ground for revolution in England.\n\nThe second section picks up the conversation on the following day and discusses how those who sought rebellion now began to make preparations for it to come to pass.\n\nThe people of England had become accustomed to hear from those whom they trusted, namely the bishops and the members of Parliament, how corrupted the crown had become. Now the discussion turned to a supposed plot by the King and Queen to return the realm to the church of Rome. The king responded by banishing some who had written pamphlets and sermons suggesting this return to Catholicism. Parliament had three of them released and they were received triumphantly in London upon their return.\n\nIn an effort to further weaken the King Parliament sought to have removed those members who were supporters of the monarchy. To this end the house impeached the Lord of Strafford for treason to Parliament and had him beheaded. Next Parliament arrested and executed the Archbishop of Canterbury for his preaching of the introduction of arbitrary government ruled in consultation of the bishops. This was opposed by many in Parliament but mainly by the Scots.\n\nAfter this discussion Hobbes' master provides a history of the house of commons and its role in the governance of the realm. He reminds his student that the Parliament had always been an institution of counsel and not control over the monarchy. The present Parliament oversteps the ancient bounds imposed on it by its appointed role as representative of the people before the king.\n\nThe rising in Ireland of an army of Papist sympathies who busied themselves harassing and slaughtering Protestants becomes an issue before the Parliament. A truce is made with the king to arrange a militia to combat this uprising in Ireland. Charles I dismissed the charges of high treason but would not identify his informant in the commons. The solicitor general is accused of being an informer on the house and he flees to France to avoid the wrath of the Parliament.\n\nParliament next took control of the militia from the crown and insisted that no adherents of the Roman church be allowed to command the army being sent to Ireland. Parliament raised funds for this expedition by selling shares of land in the Irish province of Ulster. A small share, three pence on every acre, was reserved for the crown with the balance of the funds being set aside for Parliament. The king did not assent to this. Relations between the two sides once again broke down and the king issued a declaration that Parliament needed to be obedient to the established laws of the kingdom.\n\nBoth sides began to gather material and men for possible war. The Parliament sent a message to the king, a humble petition, with 19 propositions to prevent conflict. The nineteen points are:\n\n\nThese nineteen points were rejected by the king as they would further weaken the authority of the crown. This left both Parliament and the king no choice but to go to war.\n\n\"See the related article Nineteen Propositions for a further discussion of this aspect of the English Civil War.\n\nThe discussion again continues after a break and now turns to the matter of the Civil war itself. The student is concerned about what he sees as the inability of Charles I to stand up to the Parliament due to his overall lack of resources as Parliament has taken control of much of the necessary material to fight a war. The master reminds the student that the officers on the side of the crown were all well experienced men and that this was an advantage that the Parliamentarians did not have. As for money, neither side had much on hand. Some of the forces supporting the king took future credit while those supporting the Parliament were funded by an appeal to the cities and by the placing of levies on the towns.\n\nAs the wars continued men on both side of the struggle changed side. This at first was to the detriment of the Parliamentary forces but in time some of those loyal to the king began to support the cause of the Parliament. This was despite the king's ancient right to call for arms in times of conflict from all land owners and high born people. The Parliamentarians had already abandoned most of the laws and so this most ancient call to arms for the king was largely ignored.\n\nThe progress of the wars showed that early on the victory was mainly had by the king's cavaliers over Parliament's forces. Mainly in the north and the west of the country Charles I had his successes. Scotland came into the war on the side of Parliament and this put some pressure on the crowns forces. This pressure was used by Oliver Cromwell in 1644 to win the Battle of Marston Moor. This marks the rise of Oliver Cromwell in the Parliamentary army and he would use these successes to eventually take over the control of the commonwealth as Lord Protector.\n\nIn 1645 Cromwell reorganised Parliaments forces into the New Model Army. This was a more disciplined and better trained group of soldiers and with this the tide began to turn against the royalist cause. In 1646 the besieged Charles I received from Parliament the same nineteen points that had brought both sides to conflict. Charles again did not give assent to them. Instead an arrangement was brokered between Parliament and the king that would see him surrender himself to them and thus end the war. By the end of 1646 the great seal of the king was broken and power over England was now available to be taken.\n\n1647 and 1648 saw the contention for control over the realm between Oliver Cromwell, with his New Model Army, and the Parliament as the king was held prisoner and not permitted to govern. Cromwell controlled 55 members of the parliament and used them to gain further support for his control over the government. Cromwell made overtures to the king to gain those members who had supported the royalist cause. London tried to stand against Cromwell but was quickly put down. He continued to consolidate his power and eventually had control over the parliament. He did not turn control back to the king as he said he would.\n\nCharles I was as unwilling to work with Parliament under the control of Cromwell and the generals as he had been before the Civil War. Cromwell removed opposition in the house, leaving what became known as the Rump Parliament, and began a charge against the king for his part in bringing about the war.\n\nThe king was brought before Parliament, the charges read, and the king denied the authority of Parliament to charge him. This occurred three times and each time Parliament asserted that they did have the necessary authority. Charles was found guilty of tyranny and executed at the gates of Whitehall on 30 January 1649.\n\nThe Rump Parliament became an Oligarchy after the execution of Charles I. A forty-person council of state, whose job was to carry out the directives of the Rump Parliament, was established. The Parliament took the name \"Custodes Libertatis Angliae\" (Custodians of English Liberty) for use in legal matters. Hobbes saw this as being foolish as they did not have a good idea of what liberty actually meant.\n\nCromwell, not yet the sole head of the government, went with the army to Ireland and in a year subdued the entire country. In Scotland the Earl of Montrose failed to get the people behind a rising against the Parliament and was executed. Cromwell's rival, General Fairfax, resigned instead of taking an army into Scotland to fight fellow Presbyterians. Cromwell was now made general of the entire army.\n\nCharles II went to Scotland, after agreeing to the demands of the Scots Parliament and sat as king. Hostilities between England and Scotland recommenced. Cromwell and the army invaded Scotland to capture the young king. Charles II, after failing to hold Edinburgh or Stirling, was able to escape to the Continent.\n\nThe Rump responded to an altercation with the Dutch and it began the First Anglo–Dutch War in 1652. Cromwell continued to fight the enemies of England while he solidified his hold over the Parliament. Cromwell was able to dissolve Parliament on 23 April 1653. A new parliament was composed of 142 of Cromwell's staunchest supporters from the army and the old Parliament. He gave them supreme power, and they in return appointed him Protector of England. The Dutch were defeated by the English, and Cromwell now had control of all of England.\n\nIn 1657 Cromwell was offered the title of king but refused it due to the opposition of the army, his source of power, to the idea. Parliament began to descend into disorder as factionalism again crept into its proceedings. Cromwell managed to keep the various factions in line.\n\nAfter Cromwell's death the Parliament fell into disarray. General Monck saw that the only solution to the troubles was not to have Richard Cromwell succeed his father but to restore the monarchy. Monck occupied London with the army and forced parliament to offer the crown to Charles II. The monarchy was then restored when Charles II accepted the offer of the Parliament.\n\nImmanuel Kant, one of the leading intellects of the Age of Enlightenment, had a different view on the nature of rebellions from Hobbes. Howard Williams, of the University of Wales, in 2003 wrote a study comparing the views of the two great thinkers on the subject of revolution amongst other things. Hobbes saw all revolution as something that should be avoided at all costs. Hobbes expressed society as a combination of the people, as the body of the society, and the monarchy, as the soul of the society, making a healthy commonwealth. Without the soul the body dies and so it is with society for Hobbes. Civil war should be avoided because it is \"the process of a society losing its soul\". In this book Williams describes Hobbes writing of \"Behemoth\" as an attempt to \"capture the spirit of those awful times and to suggest emphatically that they should not be repeated\". Hobbes did not believe that anything positive came out of the civil war.\n\nKant, according to Williams, shares the same basic attitude to the resistance of sovereign power but does not think that all outcomes of Rebellion are necessarily negative. Kant is writing about the French Revolution, not the English Civil War, in his book \"The Conflict of the Faculties\". Written more than 100 years after Hobbes wrote \"Behemoth\", it has as its focus the idea that rebellions arouse sympathy in other countries for the people caught up in them. Kant says that this is due to a \"moral disposition within the human race\". Going further Kant, according to Williams, implies that uprisings are the wrong solution to a problem with governance but that there can still be something positive in the results of that uprising.\n\nHobbes does not think that there is any sort of innate morality in society and that rebellion is either \"an unwise or failed experiment as a complete blunder arising from ignorance\". Instead, according to Williams, Hobbes has sympathy not for the common people caught up in the rebellion but instead for those who were the victims of the rebellion. This is in keeping with the royalist stance taken by Hobbes in \"Behemoth\".\nThe French Revolution was not the only source for Kant's views on rebellion. He took into account the American Revolutionary War and the English Civil war as well as the views of classical thinking on the nature of republics. Hobbes, of course, could not do this. Kant as well was more of an observer than a participant in the events of these revolutions. Hobbes was deeply affected by the Civil war and believed that rebellion would not be a solution. Instead \"only an absolute sovereign power could teach 'the science of just and unjust', fixing meanings in a stable way and thus inducing social cohesion\".\n\nHobbes then is a supporter of an \"absolute sovereignty, embodied in a monarch or corporate body of individuals; Kant is a supporter of popular sovereignty, embodied in the law-making powers of a group of the people's representatives\". Another key difference between the two philosophers is the way that the laws of the land should be administered. An absolute monarch, for Hobbes, implies that the authority of that monarch \"must be beyond question, whereas for Kant the sovereign's authority is best safeguarded through the possibility of public debate and criticism\". These fundamental differences in thinking are perhaps more to do with the differences in the eras the two philosophers lived in. Hobbes lived a hundred years before Kant. Additionally Hobbes experienced rebellion first hand, even to the point of fleeing England for fear of his personal safety, whereas Kant did not directly suffer during the rebellions that occurred in his lifetime. Another consideration was that in the course of a century much more had been written on the subject of the rights of the people and of liberty and this too must have been an influence on Kant's point of view. This does not negate Hobbes' views on rebellion but does illuminate a probable cause for his position on them.\n\n"}
{"id": "8222535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8222535", "title": "Bibliography of the War of 1812", "text": "Bibliography of the War of 1812\n\nThe War of 1812 bibliography is a selective, annotated bibliography using APA style citations of the many books related to the War of 1812. There are thousands of books and articles written about this topic. Only the most useful are presented.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7598000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7598000", "title": "Brian Bates (psychologist)", "text": "Brian Bates (psychologist)\n\nBrian Bates (born 1944) is former Chairman of Psychology at the University of Sussex. He is currently a Senior Visiting Research Fellow there in the Sussex Institute and a Visiting Professor at the University of Brighton. He is best known as the author of best-selling books on the shamanic wisdom of Anglo-Saxon England, and for his award-winning course at Sussex on \"Shamanic Consciousness\". He is also an authority on the psychology of actors, teaching and directing for ten years at The Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London.\n\n\n\n\n http://www.hayhouse.com/authorbio/brian-bates\n\n"}
{"id": "38053091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38053091", "title": "Business History Review", "text": "Business History Review\n\nThe Business History Review is a scholarly quarterly published by Cambridge University Press for Harvard Business School. \"Business History Review\" is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the field of business history. It was established in 1954 by Harvard University Press as the continuation of the \"Bulletin of the Business Historical Society\".\n\nThe journal is one of the leading scholarly journals in the field of business history alongside \"Enterprise & Society\" and \"Business History\".\n\nThe \"Business History Review\" traces it origins to 1926 with the publication of Harvard’s \"Bulletin of the Business Historical Society\". The Bulletin aimed “to encourage and aid the study of the evolution of business in all periods and in all countries” and devoted much space to describing the growing archival collections of Harvard’s Baker Library. Henrietta Larson, whose \"Guide to Business History\" (1948) also documented the scope of available research materials, was editor from 1938 to 1953.\n\nIn 1954, the \"Bulletin\" changed its name to \"Business History Review\" and took its current format of publishing peer-reviewed research articles and book reviews. In these years, the intellectual framework of the field of business history was defined by the work of Alfred D. Chandler Jr., who published 11 research articles in the journal. One of the most popular (with 212 Google Scholar cites) was his 1959 piece “The Beginnings of ‘Big Business’ in American Industry,” which explored the question of why large, vertically integrated corporations were formed in the late nineteenth-century and why they took the structure they did. Another highly cited article (240 Google Scholar cites) from 1970 was “The Emerging Organizational Synthesis in American History” by Louis Galambos, which also focused on explaining the growth of bureaucratic structures in the United States.\n\nIn 1974, \"Business History Review\" published its first special issue on the multinational corporation. Included in the issue was an article on oil companies operating in South America by Mira Wilkins, who pioneered the field of international business history. The journal also expanded its focus beyond the workings of business enterprise to cover business-government relations. In 1975, Thomas K. McCraw, who edited the journal from 1994 to 2005, published “Regulation in America: A Review Article.” In 2011, the current editors, Walter A. Friedman and Geoffrey Jones (academic), listed the \"BHR\"'s core subjects as innovation, globalization, entrepreneurship, business and the environment, business and government, and business and democracy. In 2015, the journal had an impact factor of .625 (with a 5-year impact factor of .895) and was rated as a 4 by the British Academic Journal Guide (a 4* is the highest rating).\n\n"}
{"id": "11812724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11812724", "title": "Byblos Castle", "text": "Byblos Castle\n\nByblos Castle is a Crusader castle in Byblos, Lebanon. In Crusader times it was known as the castle of Gibelet or Giblet.\n\nThe castle was built by the Crusaders in the 12th century from indigenous limestone and the remains of Roman structures. The finished structure was surrounded by a moat. It belonged to the Genoese Embriaco family, whose members were the Lords of Gibelet. Saladin captured the town and castle in 1188 and partially dismantled the walls in 1190. Later, the Crusaders recaptured Byblos and rebuilt the fortifications of the castle in 1197. In 1369, the castle had to fend off an attack from Cypriot vessels from Famagusta.\n\nThe Byblos Castle has distinguished historical buildings for neighbors. Nearby stand a few Egyptian temples, the Phoenician royal necropolis and the Roman amphitheatre.\n\nThe Crusader castle of Gibelet is \"the finest example\" (Boas) of a new 12th-century type, which mixes the \"castrum\"-type with the \"turris\"-type castle: a roughly square set of walls strengthened by corner towers, built around a central donjon, thus forming two layers of defense.\n\nThe castle houses the Byblos site museum. It displays remains of the excavations undertaken on the site of the archeological preserve of Byblos, although the most important finds are displayed in the National Museum of Beirut. Moreover, the history of Byblos from prehistory to the medieval periods, is illustrated with thematic panels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13033503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13033503", "title": "Chalkley Beeson", "text": "Chalkley Beeson\n\nChalkley McArtor \"Chalk\" Beeson (April 24, 1848 – August 9, 1912) was a well-known businessman, lawman, cattleman and musician but was best known for his ownership of the famous Long Branch Saloon in Dodge City, Kansas.\n\nOriginally from Salem, Ohio, Beeson was the seventh-born child of Samuel and Martha Beeson. The family moved to Marshalltown, Iowa shortly after his birth. In 1866 the 18-year-old Beeson left Marshalltown and headed west to Texas, where he found employment as a cowboy. Years later, Charles Goodnight would say of Beeson: \"He was the best cowboy on the trail ... could stampede or quiet a herd quicker than any rustler I ever met.\" During 1872 the 24-year-old Beeson was living in Colorado. He worked, for a time, as a guide to buffalo hunters, with his clients including Grand Duke Alexei Alexandrovich of Russia, Phil Sheridan, and George Custer.\n\nWhen the hunt ended, Beeson returned to Pueblo, Colorado where he participated in many civic activities. He was a member of the volunteer fire department and also Pueblo's baseball team. For employment, he drove a stagecoach between Denver and Colorado Springs. By 1875 Beeson grew bored with Pueblo and relocated to the three-year-old town of Dodge City, Kansas.\n\nIn 1876, Chalk Beeson returned home to Marshalltown, Iowa, where he married 22-year-old Ida Gause on July 17, 1876. The newlyweds intended to locate in Kansas City, Missouri. Before they could do so, Chalk had to return to Dodge City to collect money owed him by A.J. Peacock, the owner of the Billiard Hall Saloon. Peacock was unable to pay Beeson in cash and handed him the deed to the establishment as payment.\n\nIda Beeson had to adjust to the fact that her husband was a Dodge City saloon owner. She was able to take some comfort in the fact that her husband provided an alternative to \"entertainment\" usually provided by frontier saloons – namely prostitutes. What Beeson provided may not have been as exciting to a Texas cowboy just arriving from a long drive, but it was certainly more cultural. Chalk Beeson offered a full orchestra. Beeson changed the name of his business to the Saratoga Saloon. According to a local paper: \"It is a rare treat to drop in at the Saratoga upon Mr. Beeson, and listen to his last and best musical combination. Mr. Beeson is a thorough lover of good music, and by his skillful selection of good performers ... draws crowds of attentive listeners.\"\n\nEncouraged by his success with the Saratoga, Beeson decided to take a chance on another saloon. The Long Branch Saloon had been founded early in 1873 by Charles E. Bassett and A.J. Peacock. The saloon changed hands several times. On March 1, 1878, Beeson purchased the Long Branch from the firm of Dexter D. Colley and James M. Manion. Soon after purchasing the Long Branch, Beeson took William H. Harris as his partner. Also with Harris, Beeson established the COD Cattle Ranch, south of Dodge City. During the next several years, the firm of Beeson & Harris became a minor conglomerate whose holdings were located in such far-flung locations as Las Animas, Colorado and Tombstone, Arizona. After owning it for five years, Beeson grew bored with the Long Branch and sold his share of the business to Luke Short on February 6, 1883. In 1884 Beeson purchased a farm some two miles from Dodge City and moved his family there.\n\nIn 1884 Beeson formed the \"Dodge City Cowboy Band. The group was well received wherever it played. The band members cut dashing figures in full \"cowboy\" regalia – enormous white stetsons, blue flannel shirts and boots festooned with ornamental spurs. Their fame finally spread far enough that they were featured performers in the March 4, 1889, inaugural parade of President Benjamin Harrison. The parade marked the Dodge City Band's finest hour, and also their final hour. Soon after their return to Dodge City, Beeson sold the ownership of the band to a man from Colorado. The transaction included most of the musical instruments and the right to use the name – all for a purchase price of $750.\n\nIn November 1891, 43-year-old Chalk Beeson was elected sheriff of Ford County, Kansas. On November 1, 1892, Oliver Yantis and two accomplices robbed a Speareville, Kansas bank of $1,697. After Yantis was identified as being in Oklahoma, Sheriff Beeson journeyed there and secured a warrant for him. On November 30, 1892, Beeson, accompanied by three Oklahoma lawmen, tracked Yantis to the residence where he was hiding. A gunfight with the posse followed in which Yantis was mortally wounded. Beeson served two terms as sheriff with distinction and left office in 1896. For the remainder of his life, Beeson concentrated on his cattle ranching. He was occasionally called upon for public service and served four separate terms in the Kansas State legislature between 1903 and 1908.\n\nOn the morning of Tuesday, August 6, 1912, with routine ranch chores to attend to, Chalk mounted a horse that was unusually skittish. When he attempted to dismount, the horse bucked and sent Beeson flying. On Friday, August 9, 1912 Chalk Beeson died. His family managed to keep his memory alive for decades after his death. In 1915 his sons, Merritt and Otero, opened the Beeson Theater on First Avenue in Dodge City. His widow, Ida Beeson, remained a prominent member of Dodge City society until her death on June 15, 1928. In 1932, Merritt Beeson opened the Beeson Museum, which became a popular tourist attraction. After Merritt Beeson died on January 28, 1956 his widow managed the museum until 1964, when its large collection of historic documents, photos and artifacts were sold to Dodge City's Boot Hill Museum, Inc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3323796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3323796", "title": "Cochise Tradition", "text": "Cochise Tradition\n\nThe Cochise Tradition (also Cochise Culture) refers to the southern archeological tradition of the four Southwestern Archaic Traditions, in the present day Southwestern United States.\n\nThe Cochise Tradition (? before 5000 to c. 200 BC) lasted for a very long time, with its earliest manifestations, known as \"Sulphur Spring\", perhaps before 5000 BC. Its two later phases, the \"Chiricahua\" and \"San Pedro\", are much better known. The Cochise Tradition was named after Lake Cochise, an ancient lake which is now Willcox Playa in Cochise County, Arizona. The Cochise Tradition appears to be ancestral to the prehistoric Mogollon (Mimbres) and Hohokam traditions.\n\nThe Cochise Tradition is part of the Picosa culture, which encapsulates the Archaic lifestyles of people from three locations with interconnected artifacts and lifestyles. It was named by Cynthia Irwin-Williams in the 1960s for those areas: Pinto Basin (PI), Cochise Tradition (CO) and San Jose (SA), which all together is \"Picosa\".\n\nChiricahua Cochise tools include a variety of projectile points and many seed-processing artifacts. The phase has been dated to between about 3500 and 1500 BC, but the chronology is open to doubt and the beginnings may be much earlier, and has been formulated on the basis of occupations in Ventana Cave, near Sells, Arizona, and from other locations in the state, as well as in western New Mexico.\n\nSan Pedro follows the Chiricahua in the southern Southwest, characterized by large projectile points with corner or side notches and straight or convex bases. Provisional radiocarbon dates have San Pedro flourishing from about 1500 to 200 BC. By this time, the Archaic population of the Southwest appears to have grown, with groups exploiting a wider range of environmental zones and sometimes living in larger, perhaps more permanent, settlements. Some San Pedro sites contain oval pithouses excavated about 1.6 ft. below the ground level, dwellings requiring sufficient effort to build that they must have been occupied for some time. Without question, some of San Pedro communities were cultivating maize and other crops.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5889040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5889040", "title": "Constitutional Court of Russia", "text": "Constitutional Court of Russia\n\nThe Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation () is a high court within the judiciary of Russia which is empowered to rule on whether certain laws or presidential decrees are in fact contrary to the Constitution of Russia. Its objective is only to protect the Constitution (in Russian constitutional law this function is known as \"constitutional control\" or \"constitutional supervision\") and deal with a few kinds of disputes where it has original jurisdiction, whereas the highest court of appeal is the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation.\n\nBefore the 1980s in the USSR the importance of judicial supervision over compatibility of legislation and executive actions with the provisions and principles of the constitution was not recognized. It was not until December 25, 1989 when Constitutional Control in the USSR Act was passed, that such \"judicial review\" was initiated. Accordingly, the Constitutional Supervision Committee was created. It started functioning mid-1990 and was dissolved towards the end of 1991. In December 1990 the Constitution of the Russian Soviet Federated Socialist Republic (RSFSR) was amended with provisions which provided for creation of Constitutional Court (whereas a similar USSR body was called a Committee, not a Court). On July 12, 1991 Constitutional Court of the RSFSR Act was adopted. In October the Fifth Congress of People's Deputies of the Russian SFSR has elected 13 members of the Court and the Constitutional Court de facto started functioning. From November 1991 till October 1993 it rendered some decisions of great significance. For example, it declared unconstitutional certain decrees of Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, which were adopted ultra vires, and forbade the practice of extrajudicial eviction. More often, however, it declared President Yeltsin's decrees unconstitutional, leading critics to argue it took the side of the Supreme Soviet in the power struggle. \nOn October 7, 1993 Boris Yeltsin's decree suspended work of the Constitutional Court. According to the decree, the Constitutional Court was \"in deep crisis\". On December 24 another presidential decree repealed the Constitutional Court of the RSFSR Act itself. \nIn July 1994 the new Constitutional Court Act was adopted. However, the new Constitutional Court started working only in February 1995, because the Federation Council of Russia refused several times to appoint judges nominated by Yeltsin.\n\nIn 2005 the federal authorities proposed to transfer the court from Moscow to Saint Petersburg. The transfer, involving controversial allocation of land on Krestovsky Island for cottages of the judges and relocation of the Russian State Historical Archive from the former Senate and Synod Building, now occupied by the court headquarters, had been completed by 2008.\n\nPresident Dmitry Medvedev on May 8, 2009, proposed to the legislature and on June 2 signed a law for an amendment whereby the chairperson of the court and his deputies would be proposed to the parliament by the president rather than elected by the judges, as was the case before.\n\nConstitutional Court Judge Vladimir Yaroslavtsev in an interview to the Spanish newspaper El País published on August 31, 2009, claimed that the presidential executive office and security services had undermined judicial independence in Russia. In October the Constitutional Court in an unprecedented motion accused Yaroslavtsev of \"undermining the authority of the judiciary\" in violation of the judicial code and forced him to resign from the Council of Judges. Judge Anatoly Kononov, who had frequently dissented from decisions taken by the majority of the court, in his interview to Sobesednik supported Yaroslavtsev, claiming that there was no independent judiciary in Russia and criticized the new amendments concerning appointment of the court chairman as undemocratic. The Constitutional Court forced Kononov to step down from the Constitutional Court on January 1, 2010, 7 years ahead of schedule.\n\nThe Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation consists of 19 judges, one being the Chairman (currently – Valery Zorkin) and another one being Deputy Chairman. The Chairman is responsible for the allocation of cases to chambers, has considerable powers in the matters of appointment, and makes the initial recommendation for disciplinary measures, in particular dismissal.\n\nThe judges are nominated by the President and appointed by the Federation Council for 12 years. In order to become a judge of the Constitutional Court a person must be a citizen of Russia, at least 40 years of age, have legal education, have served as a lawyer for at least 15 years and have \"recognized high qualification\" (quotation from Constitutional Court Act) in law.\n\nThe Constitutional Court consists of two chambers with 10 and 9 judges respectively. The Chairman presides over one of the chambers, the Deputy Chairman presides over the other chamber. Constitutionality of laws, disputes concerning competence of governmental agencies, impeachment of the president of Russia and Constitutional Court's proposals of legislations must be dealt with on plenary session. Besides, Constitutional Court may by its discretion submit to plenary sessions any other issue.\n\nCertain powers of the Constitutional Court are enumerated in the Constitution of Russia. The Constitutional Court declares laws, presidential and governmental decrees and laws of federal subjects unconstitutional if it finds that they are contrary to the Constitution (i.e. they violate certain rights and freedoms of citizens enumerated in and protected by the Constitution). In such instances, that particular law becomes unenforceable, and governmental agencies are barred from implementing it. Also, before an international treaty is ratified by the State Duma, the constitutionality of the treaty may be observed by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is not entitled to judge constitutionality of laws on its own initiative; the law may be submitted to the Constitutional Court by the President of Russia, the government of Russia, the State Duma, the Federation Council of Russia, one-fifth of members of the State Duma or the Federation Council, the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation, the Supreme Arbitration Court of the Russian Federation, or a legislative body of a Federal subject. Any federal court may request the Constitutional Court to judge on the constitutionality of a law if the law is to be implemented in a case, and a judge of the federal court is in doubt about whether the law is contrary to the Constitution. Also, any private citizen may submit in the Constitutional Court a claim challenging constitutionality of a particular law if that law was implemented in a particular case and thus violated rights of that citizen.\n\nAnother power of the Constitutional Court is to resolve disputes concerning competence of governmental agencies. Whenever the President of Russia is impeached, the Constitutional Court renders a resolution concerning complying with the due order of indictment.\n\nThe Constitutional Court deals with cases either in chambers or in plenary sessions. All judges must be present unless he or she is sick or may have interest in the case and must not abstain from voting on the resolution. Apart from judges, claimant and his representatives governmental agencies involved are present. In order for resolution or decision to pass two-thirds of judges must be in favor of it.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12259106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12259106", "title": "Defeminization and masculinization", "text": "Defeminization and masculinization\n\nDefeminization and masculinization are the processes that a fetus goes through to become a male. \n\nIt has often been said by biologists that in sexual differentiation in mammals, the female is the \"default\" developmental pathway, in the sense that elimination of any of several gene actions necessary for formation of male genitalia leads to the development of external female genitalia (though development of functional ovaries requires effective action of several less understood sex-specific genes). Two processes: defeminization, and masculinization, are involved in producing male typical morphology and behavior. Disruption of either of these processes in males produces female-typical development. The opposite is not true; disruption of normal sexual development in females does not lead to male-typical endpoints. \n\nDefeminization involves the suppression of the development of female typical morphology (development of the Müllerian ducts into the fallopian tubes, uterus and vagina) and behavioural predispositions. Masculinization involves the production of male typical morphology (development of the Wolffian ducts into male reproductive structures) and behavioural predispositions. Both defeminization and masculinization are required for a mammalian zygote to become a fully reproductively functional male.\n\nA brief version of the female default paradigm can be stated as follows:\n\n\nThis paradigm dates back to the 1950s. Even stronger versions were commonly stated in the 1960s and 1970s. One version, perhaps most associated with John Money, (who termed it the \"Adam principle\"), held that additional steps in the cascade to male identity were the recognition by parents and doctor that the external genitalia were male, which resulted in a male sex assignment, which in turn resulted in a male sex of rearing by parents and society, which in turn (coupled with the reinforcing appearance of male genitalia) resulted in a male gender identity. At least by implication, female gender identity simply required a female sex of rearing and lack of an obvious penis.\n\nIn Germany in the 1970s, Günter Dörner extrapolated the cascade to include direct testosterone effect on the brain as necessary for a male gender identity and sexual orientation, proposing that transsexualism and or homosexuality in biological males could result from deficiency of prenatal or early postnatal testosterone effect on the brain.\n\n"}
{"id": "52699846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52699846", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Libya", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Libya\n\nThe Embassy of the State of Palestine in Libya () is the diplomatic mission of the Palestine in Libya. It is located in Ben Achour area in Tripoli.\n\n"}
{"id": "455741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455741", "title": "Emblem of Angola", "text": "Emblem of Angola\n\nThe emblem of Angola reflects the recent past of the new nation. There is heavy Marxist imagery found on the device (as can be seen when comparing with other examples of so-called \"socialist heraldry\"), expanded from what is found on the national flag. \n\nIn the center is a machete and hoe, representing the revolution through which the nation gained independence and the importance of agricultural workers. Above both emblems is a star, a common symbol in socialist emblems. The star is taken to represent progress. The rising sun is the traditional symbol of a new beginning. These emblems are all enclosed within a circle whose right half is formed by cog-wheel, representing the industrial workers, and whose left half is a half-wreath of maize and cotton leaves, representing agriculture. At the bottom is an open book that represents education.\n\nThe banner at the bottom reads ', Portuguese for \"Republic of Angola\". This was changed from ' (\"People's Republic of Angola\") in 1990; at the same time the cog-wheel was also changed from gold to silver.\n\nDetails of the insignia are laid down in Article 163 of the Constitution of Angola.\n\nWhen Angola was a Portuguese colony and later a Portuguese province (and thus legally a part of Portugal proper), Angola used coats of arms to represent the nation. These consisted of a shield parted per pale, with the Portuguese arms without its usual bordure in the dexter (viewer's left) half and in the sinister (viewer's right) half the arms for Angola itself: a golden elephant and a golden zebra on a purpure field. The wavy bars in the base (\"enté en point\") represented Angola's location overseas from metropolitan Portugal.\n\n"}
{"id": "29155894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29155894", "title": "Ernesto Galarza", "text": "Ernesto Galarza\n\nErnesto Galarza (August 15, 1905–June 22, 1984) was a Mexican-American labor activist, professor, poet, writer, and key figure in the history of immigrant farm worker organization in California.\n\nBorn in Jalcocotan in the Mexican state of Nayarit, Galarza immigrated with his mother and two uncles to California. As recalled in his autobiography, \"Barrio Boy\", the young Galarza successfully navigated the cultural differences in the public school system, received a scholarship to Occidental College in Los Angeles, and then went on to earn a master's degree in history at Stanford University in 1929.\n\nGalarza worked with the Pan-American Union (now the Organization of American States) in Washington D.C. from 1936 through 1947 publishing analyses on educational, labor and infrastructure issues in Latin America. In 1947, he completed his doctoral dissertation on the electricity industry in Mexico and earned a Ph.D. from Columbia University.\n\nGalarza worked as a labor organizer and a key leader in laying the groundwork for the emergence in California of the farm labor movement. National Farm Labor Union. Galarza began organizing farm workers in California in 1948 as research and education director of the American Federation of Labor's short-lived National Farm Labor Union. \n\nGalarza organized a 1947 strike against the DiGiorgio Corporation in Arvin, California that lasted 30 months, and entangled the company and the union in suits and counter-suits for the following 15 years. Altogether between 1948 and 1959, Galarza and the union initiated some twenty strikes and labor actions. \n\nAlthough primarily an intellectual and scholar whose weapons were words, Galarza initially played an activist's role with the AFL as the leader of several strikes. But he was completely thwarted by the bracero program and so abandoned the union leader's weapon of direct economic action for the intellectual's weapon of words in hopes of killing the program. \n\nA prolific writer, Galarza's best-known work is \"Merchants of Labor\" (1964), an exposé of the abuses within the Bracero Program. The book was instrumental in the ending of the program, which in turn opened the door for Cesar Chavez to begin unionizing immigrant farmworkers in 1965.\n\nIn 1956 Galarza was awarded the Bolivian Order of the Condor of the Andes. The Ernesto Galarza Applied Research Center at the University of California Riverside and other California elementary and secondary schools bear his name. His many books include: \n\n\nIn the wake of a bus crash in the Salinas Valley in September 1963 that claimed the lives of 32 braceros, Galarza was appointed to investigate the tragedy by Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor of the U.S. House of Representatives. His report, published by the committee in April 1964, found that the accident was directly caused by negligence, exemplifying a practice in which flatbed trucks were illegally converted to buses, driven by poorly trained personnel. With safety officials and regulators indifferent to the situation, and businesses showing disregard for human life, he found that the accident had been imminent. He wrote a book on the accident, \"Tragedy at Chualar\" (1977).\n"}
{"id": "4933821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4933821", "title": "Escape from Alcatraz (book)", "text": "Escape from Alcatraz (book)\n\nEscape from Alcatraz is a 1963 non-fiction book, written by J. Campbell Bruce, about the history of Alcatraz Penitentiary and the escape attempts made by the inmates. It was revised in 1976 and again in 2005.\n\nPortions of this book concern the escape of Frank Morris and brothers John and Clarence Anglin, which was the basis for the film \"Escape from Alcatraz\" in 1979.\n\n"}
{"id": "617736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=617736", "title": "Frank Wedekind", "text": "Frank Wedekind\n\nBenjamin Franklin Wedekind (July 24, 1864 – March 9, 1918), usually known as Frank Wedekind, was a German playwright. His work, which often criticizes bourgeois attitudes (particularly towards sex), is considered to anticipate expressionism and was influential in the development of epic theatre.\n\nBefore 2006, Wedekind was best known for the \"Lulu\" cycle, a two-play series --\"Erdgeist\" (\"Earth Spirit\", 1895) and \"Die Büchse der Pandora\" (\"Pandora's Box\", 1904) -- centered on a young dancer/adventuress of mysterious origin.\n\nBenjamin Franklin Wedekind was born on July 24, 1864 in Hannover, Germany. His mother was Swiss and became pregnant with him in San Francisco. His father, a German, had a Swiss castle in which Wedekind grew up. Until World War I, when he was forced to obtain a German passport, he was an American citizen and traveled throughout Europe. He lived most of his adult life in Munich, though he had a brief period working in advertising, for the Maggi soup firm, in Switzerland in 1886.\n\nHaving worked in business and the circus, Wedekind went on to become an actor and singer. In this capacity he received wide acclaim as the principal star of the satirical cabaret \"Die elf Scharfrichter\" (\"The Eleven Executioners\"), launched in 1901. Wedekind became an important influence on the tradition of German satirical writing for the theatre, paving the way for the cabaret-song satirists Kurt Tucholsky, Walter Mehring, Joachim Ringelnatz and Erich Kästner among others, who after Wedekind's death would invigorate the culture of the Weimar Republic; \"all bitter social critics who used direct, stinging satire as the best means of attack and wrote a large part of their always intelligible light verse to be declaimed or sung\". At the age of 34, after serving a nine-month prison sentence for \"lèse-majesté\" (thanks to the publication in \"Simplicissimus\" of some of his satirical poems), Wedekind became a dramaturg (a play-reader and adapter) at the Munich Schauspielhaus.\n\nHis sex life was promiscuous and he frequented prostitutes, contracting syphilis. He also enjoyed the pleasure of platonic female company and kept his tendencies toward homosexuality and sadism in check. He had an affair with Frida Uhl who bore him a child. In 1906, he married the Austrian actress Tilly Newes, 22 years his junior and became strictly monogamous. His relationship with his wife was turbulent, with Wedekind prone to jealousy and he felt pressure to maintain strenuous creative and sexual activity in order to please her. They had two daughters, Pamela and Kadidja, but his jealousy led his wife to attempt both separation and suicide.\n\nNear the end of his life, Wedekind underwent an appendectomy and immediately began acting again, leading to a hernia. His doctor refused to operate immediately but Wedekind insisted and complications from the surgery led to his death at the age of 53 on March 9, 1918.\n\nTilly Wedekind went on to appear in such films as \"Travelling People\" and was romantically linked to the author Gottfried Benn. In 1969, at age 83, she published an autobiography in German, \"Lulu: Die Rolle meines Lebens\" (Lulu: The Role of My Life).\n\nWedekind's first major play, \"Frühlings Erwachen\" (\"Spring Awakening\", 1891), which concerns sexuality and puberty among some young German students, caused a scandal as it contained scenes of homoeroticism, implied group male masturbation, actual male masturbation, sado-masochism between a teenage boy and girl, rape and suicide, as well as references to abortion.\n\nThe \"Lulu\" plays \"Erdgeist\" (\"Earth Spirit\", 1895) and \"Die Büchse der Pandora\" (\"Pandora's Box\", 1904) were probably his best known works until the 2006 adaptation of \"Spring Awakening\". Originally conceived as a single play, the two pieces tell a continuous story of a sexually-enticing young dancer, who rises in German society through her relationships with wealthy men but who later falls into poverty and prostitution. The frank depiction of sexuality and violence in these plays, including lesbianism and an encounter with Jack the Ripper (a role which Wedekind played in the original production), pushed the boundaries of what was considered acceptable on the stage at the time. Karl Kraus also helped Wedekind stage it in Vienna.\n\n\"Der Kammersänger\" (\"The Court-Singer\", 1899) is a one-act character study of a famous opera singer who receives a series of unwelcome guests at his hotel suite.\n\nIn \"Franziska\" (1910), the title character, a young girl, initiates a Faustian pact with the Devil, selling her soul for the knowledge of what it is like to live life as a man (reasoning that men seem to have all the advantages).\n\nA number of Wedekind's works have been translated into English by Samuel Atkins Eliot, Jr.\n\n\nThe \"Lulu\" plays formed the basis for G. W. Pabst's acclaimed silent film \"Pandora's Box\" (1929), starring Louise Brooks as Lulu and also Alban Berg's opera \"Lulu\" (1937), which is considered to be one of the masterpieces of twentieth-century opera. Walerian Borowczyk based his 1980 film \"Lulu\" on these plays. Currently the plays are being adapted into comics by John Linton Roberson. They also form the basis for the 2011 album \"Lulu\", a collaboration between the rock musician Lou Reed and the heavy metal band Metallica.\n\n\"Hidalla\" was used as a source for a libretto by Franz Schreker, intended to be set by Alexander von Zemlinsky, but later set by Schreker himself in 1915 as the opera Die Gezeichneten.\n\n\"Der Kammersänger\" was adapted by composer Hugo Weisgall for his English-language opera \"The Tenor.\"\n\nWedekind's symbolist novella \"Mine-Haha, or On the Bodily Education of Young Girls\" (1903) was the basis for the films \"Innocence\" (2004) by Lucile Hadžihalilović and \"The Fine Art of Love\" (2005) by John Irvin.\n\nIn 2006, \"Frühlings Erwachen\" was adapted into the successful Broadway musical \"Spring Awakening\".\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "8016831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8016831", "title": "Fun (magazine)", "text": "Fun (magazine)\n\nFun was a Victorian weekly magazine, first published on 21 September 1861. The magazine was founded by the actor and playwright H. J. Byron in competition with \"Punch\" magazine. \"Fun\" ceased publication in 1901, when it was absorbed into \"Sketchy Bits\".\n\nLike \"Punch\", the journal published satiric verse and parodies, as well as political and literary criticism, sports and travel information. These were often illustrated or accompanied by topical cartoons (often of a political nature). The \"Punch\" mascot, Mr. Punch, and his dog Toby were lampooned by Fun's jester, Mr. Fun, and his cat. The magazine was aimed at a well-educated readership interested in politics, literature, and theatre.\n\n\"Fun\" was sold for a penny and was sometimes characterised as a 'poor man's \"Punch\"'. Thackeray called it \"Funch\". \"Fun\" silenced its critics by publishing lively fare, whereas \"Punch\" was criticised as dull and tired. One area in which \"Fun\" clearly bested its rival was in its close connection to popular theatre.\n\nByron and his successor as editor, Tom Hood, the son of the first \"Punch\" contributor, assembled a vivacious, bohemian and progressive staff. Notable contributors included playwrights Tom Robertson, Hood, Clement Scott, F. C. Burnand (who defected to \"Punch\" in 1862), satirist Ambrose Bierce, G. R. Sims and especially W. S. Gilbert, whose Bab Ballads were almost all published in its pages, among other articles, poems, illustrations and drama criticism over a ten-year period. Cartoonists included Arthur Boyd Houghton, Matt Morgan and James Francis Sullivan (1852–1936). The \"Fun\" gang frequented the Arundel Club, the Savage Club, and especially Evans's café, where they had a table in competition with the \"Punch\" 'Round table'. Even though \"Fun\" was seen as liberal in comparison with the increasingly conservative \"Punch\", it could cast satirical scorn or praise on either side of the political spectrum. For instance, Disraeli, whose unorthodox character and ethnic lineage made him a popular focus of attack, was praised in the magazine, including for his Reform Bill of 1867.\n\nByron ceded the editorship of the paper to Hood in 1865 and sold \"Fun\" to engravers and publishers George and Edward Dalziel in 1870, who had previously engraved drawings for \"Punch\". Two years later they transferred it to their nephew Gilbert Dalziel (1853–1930). After the death of Hood and the end of contributions from Gilbert by 1874, the quality of the content began a slow decline. During the 1870s, the circulation of \"Fun\" is estimated at 20,000, compared with \"Punch\"'s 40,000. Hood was succeeded as editor by Henry Sampson until 1878, and then the editorship devolved to Charles Dalziel. In 1893, the Dalziels withdrew from the journal.\n\n\"Fun\" ceased publication in 1901, when it was absorbed into \"Sketchy Bits\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5341677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5341677", "title": "Godless: The Church of Liberalism", "text": "Godless: The Church of Liberalism\n\nGodless: The Church of Liberalism is a book by best-selling author and conservative columnist Ann Coulter, published in 2006. The book is an argument against American liberalism, which Coulter regards as so anti-scientific and faith-based that it amounts to a \"primitive religion\" which she claims has \"its own cosmology, its own explanation for why we are here, its own gods, and its own clergy.\" Coulter asserts that \"the basic tenet of liberalism is that nature is god and men are monkeys.\"\n\nThe book drew criticism for its statements on the Jersey Girls, alleged plagiarized content and promotion of the pseudoscientific view of intelligent design.\n\nCoulter argues that liberalism rejects the idea of God and reviles people of faith, yet bears all the attributes of a religion itself. Coulter argues that the tenets of the liberal \"church\" are:\n\nThroughout the book, Coulter criticizes the four 9/11 widows, known as the \"Jersey Girls\", who helped push for the 9/11 Commission and have been critical of US security policies writing:\n\nThese broads are millionaires, lionized on TV and in articles about them, reveling in their status as celebrities and stalked by grief-arazzis. These self-obsessed women seemed genuinely unaware that 9/11 was an attack on our nation and acted as if the terrorist attacks happened only to them. ... I've never seen people enjoying their husbands' deaths so much ... the Democrat ratpack gals endorsed John Kerry for president ... cutting campaign commercials ... how do we know their husbands weren't planning to divorce these harpies? Now that their shelf life is dwindling, they'd better hurry up and appear in \"Playboy\".\n\nThese statements received national attention after an interview on \"The Today Show\", and were widely criticized. Coulter refused to apologize, and responded, \"I feel sorry for all the widows of 9/11 ... [but] I do not believe that sanctifies their political message ... They have attacked Bush, they have attacked Condoleezza Rice, they're cutting campaign commercials for Kerry. But we can't respond because their husbands died ... I think it's one of the ugliest things 'the left' has done ... this idea that you need some sort of personal authenticity in order to make a political point ...\"\n\nAlso on June 8, New Jersey Assemblywomen Joan M. Quigley and Linda Stender issued a joint press release, calling on \"... New Jersey retailers to ban the sale of her book throughout the state.\"\n\nThe book begins with a quotation from the Bible: \"They exchanged the truth of God for the lie, and worshiped and served the creation rather than the creator ... Therefore, God gave them up to passions of dishonor, for their females exchanged the natural use for that which is contrary to nature. — Romans 1:25-26\".\n\nCoulter also says in a footnote, \"Throughout this book, I often refer to Christians and Christianity because I am a Christian and I have a fairly good idea of what they believe, but the term is intended to include anyone who subscribes to the Bible of the God of Abraham, including Jews and others.\"\n\nEchoing the author's contention is this passage from Norman Podhoretz's book, \"Why Are Jews Liberals?\"\n\nChristopher Hitchens noted that Coulter implied neoconservatives and Jews are one and the same:\n\nIf liberals are on Red Alert with one born-again Christian in the cabinet of a Christian president, imagine how they would react if there were five. Between 25 and 45 percent of the population calls itself \"born-again\" or \"evangelical\" Christian. Jews make up less than 2 per cent of the nation's population, and yet Clinton had five in his cabinet. He appointed two to the Supreme Court. Now guess which administration is called a neoconservative conspiracy?\n\nCoulter, citing various critics of evolution and proponents of intelligent design, devotes approximately one-third of the book to attacks on evolution, which Coulter terms \"Darwinism.\" Coulter turned to leading intelligent design proponents for tutors in writing this section of the book: \"I couldn't have written about evolution without the generous tutoring of Michael Behe, David Berlinski, and William Dembski ...\" Behe, Dembski and Berlinski are all fellows of the Discovery Institute, the hub of the intelligent design movement, which Coulter endorses in the book. Chapter 8, \"The Creation Myth: On the Sixth Day, God Created Fruit Flies\", advances the book's thesis that liberalism is a religion, this time by attempting to show what she argues is its cosmogony. The chapter begins:\n\nLater in the chapter, she presents a parody—the \"Giant Raccoon's Flatulence Theory\"—to illustrate what she sees as fallacious arguments of those who espouse the theory of evolution. The \"theory\" states:\n\nThe \"imagine\", \"perhaps\" and \"might\" (italicized by Coulter in the book) refer to what she believes is the speculative, mythical, 'made-up-story' nature of the modern evolutionary synthesis theory that species evolved through mutation and non-random selection. Chapter 9, entitled \"Proof for How the Walkman Evolved into the iPOD by Random Mutation\", begins\n\nTo back her opinion, Coulter refers to examples of evolution used in long-standing evolutionary arguments against creationism, but also to examples that were later shown to be misinterpreted, or hoaxes. She presents the Galápagos finches, the peppered moth, Piltdown man, Archaeoraptor, Haeckel's drawings, and the Miller–Urey experiment, as flawed, discredited, or made-up evidence and stating arguments to support her case. While portraying evolution theory as a \"religion\", Coulter portrays intelligent design as legitimate \"science\":\n\nCoulter's reliance on intelligent design and creationist sources for science, has prompted some critics of the intelligent design movement to analyze her claims. P. Z. Myers, countering Coulter's claim that there is no evidence for the theory of evolution, points to the scientific literature that contains hundreds of thousands, possibly millions, of articles about various aspects of evolution. He also argues that Coulter has it backwards: The issue is not whether there is evidence that supports evolution theory, but whether there is evidence that is explained by evolution theory, since theories are explanations for data. In response to Coulter's citing of Jonathan Wells' arguments concerning peppered moth evolution, Ian Musgrave argues that Coulter misrepresents the significance of the peppered moth experiments, makes a number of factual errors, and a \"wildly ignorant misrepresentation of evolution.\" James Downard criticized Coulter's favoring of secondary sources over primary sources, saying \"she compulsively reads inaccurate antievolutionary sources and accepts them on account of their reinforcement of what she wants to be true.\"\n\nMedia Matters for America responded to Coulter's \"strawman\" arguments against evolution by noting 11 types of \"distortions\" in her writing and going into detail explaining why her claims are false and contrary to science. A satirical account of Coulter's take on evolution was written by probabilist Peter Olofsson, whose tongue-in-cheek argument was that Coulter had in fact written a veiled criticism of the intelligent design movement, much like Alan Sokal did to the postmodern movement in his famous hoax.\n\nCoulter argues that intelligent design proponents' challenges to the theory of evolution are immediately disqualified as being based on religious beliefs. For example:\n\nCoulter claims this is evidence of a \"liberal-left\" conspiracy to create generations of atheists taught through the public school system.\nCoulter also asserts that students in the public school system should have the opportunity to debate evolution versus intelligent design in a classroom setting.\n\nChristopher Hitchens, in a critical review of \"Godless\" for \"The Liberal\", pointed to the book's incoherent prose and factual inaccuracy.\n\nJohn Barrie, creator of iParadigms, LLC's plagiarism-detection software, found in the book three instances of what he claims to be plagiarism. The Rawstory website claims that she used text taken from the Illinois Right to Life website, making only slight changes for the book. The TPM Muckracker website provided a \"complete\" list of examples of alleged plagiarism discovered so far in all of Coulter's works. Coulter's publisher Crown Publishing Group has since characterized the charges as being \"as trivial and meritless as they are irresponsible.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "20155864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20155864", "title": "Horned deity", "text": "Horned deity\n\nDeities depicted with horns or antlers are found in many different religions across the world.\n\nHathor is commonly depicted as a cow goddess with head horns in which is set a sun disk with Uraeus. Twin feathers are also sometimes shown in later periods as well as a necklace. Hathor may be the cow goddess who is depicted from an early date on the Narmer Palette and on a stone urn dating from the 1st dynasty that suggests a role as sky-goddess and a relationship to Horus who, as a sun god, is \"housed\" in her.\n\nHathor had a complex relationship with Ra, in one myth she is his eye and considered his daughter but later, when Ra assumes the role of Horus with respect to Kingship, she is considered Ra's mother. She absorbed this role from another cow goddess 'Mht wrt' (\"Great flood\") who was the mother of Ra in a creation myth and carried him between her horns. As a mother she gave birth to Ra each morning on the eastern horizon and as wife she conceives through union with him each day.\n\nBat was a cow goddess in Egyptian mythology depicted as a human face with cow ears and horns. By the time of the Middle Kingdom her identity and attributes were subsumed within the goddess Hathor. The worship of Bat dates to earliest times and may have its origins in Late Paleolithic cattle herding. Bat was the chief goddess of Seshesh, otherwise known as Hu or Diospolis Parva, the 7th nome of Upper Egypt.\nThe imagery of Bat as a divine cow was remarkably similar to that of Hathor the parallel goddess from Lower Egypt. The significant difference in their depiction is that Bat's horns curve inward and Hathor's curve outward slightly. It is possible that this could be based in the different breeds of cattle herded at different times.\n\nIn Egypt, the bull was worshiped as Apis, the embodiment of Ptah and later of Osiris. A long series of ritually perfect bulls were identified by the god's priests, housed in the temple for their lifetime, then embalmed and encased in a giant sarcophagus. A long sequence of monolithic stone sarcophagi were housed in the Serapeum, and were rediscovered by Auguste Mariette at Saqqara in 1851. The bull was also worshipped as Mnevis, the embodiment of Atum-Ra, in Heliopolis. \"Ka\" in Egyptian is both a religious concept of life-force/power and the word for bull.\n\nMnevis was identified as being a living bull. This may be a vestige of the sacrifice of kings after a period of reign, who were seen as the sons of Bat or Hathor (see:horned goddess Hathor), the ancient cow deity of the early solar cults. Thus, seen as a symbol of the later sun god, Ra, the Mnevis was often depicted, in art, with the solar disc of their mother, Hathor between its horns.\n\nThe Canaanite deity Moloch (according to the bible) was often depicted as a bull, and became a bull demon in Abrahamic traditions. The bull is familiar in Judeo-Christian cultures from the Biblical episode wherein an idol of the Golden Calf is made by Aaron and worshipped by the Hebrews in the wilderness of Sinai (\"Exodus\"). The text of the Hebrew Bible can be understood to refer to the idol as representing a separate god, or as representing the God of Israel himself, perhaps through an association or syncretization with Egyptian or Levantine bull gods, rather than a new deity in itself.\n\nExodus 32:4 \"He took this from their hand, and fashioned it with a graving tool and made it into a molten calf; and they said, 'This is your god, O Israel, who brought you up from the land of Egypt'.\"\n\nNehemiah 9:18 \"even when they made an idol shaped like a calf and said, 'This is your god who brought you out of Egypt!' They committed terrible blasphemies.\"\n\nCalf-idols are referred to later in the Tanakh, such as in the Book of Hosea, which would seem accurate as they were a fixture of near-eastern cultures.\n\nKing Solomon's \"bronze sea\"-basin stood on twelve brazen bulls, according to 1. Kings 7:25.\n\nYoung bulls were set as frontier markers at Tel Dan and at Bethel the frontiers of the Kingdom of Israel.\n\nThe ram was revered in ancient Egypt in matters of fertility and war. Early gods with long wavy ram horns include Khnum and the equivalent god in Lower Egypt, Banebdjedet, the \"Ram Lord of Djedet\" (Mendes), who was typically shown with four ram heads to represent the four souls (\"Ba\") of the sun god. Banebdjedet may also be linked to the first four gods to rule over Egypt, Osiris, Geb, Shu and Ra-Atum, with large granite shrines devoted to each in the Mendes sanctuary. The \"Book of the Heavenly Cow\" describes the \"Ram of Mendes\" as being the Ba of Osiris, but this was not an exclusive association.\n\nList of Egyptian gods associated with the ram:\n\nThe worship of Ammon was introduced into Greece at an early period, probably through the medium of the Greek colony in Cyrene, which must have formed a connection with the great oracle of Ammon in the Oasis soon after its establishment. Ammon had a temple and a statue, the gift of Pindar, at Thebes, and another at Sparta, the inhabitants of which, as Pausanias says, consulted the oracle of Ammon in Libya from early times more than the other Greeks. At Aphytis, Chalcidice, Ammon was worshipped, from the time of Lysander, as zealously as in Ammonium. Pindar the poet honoured the god with a hymn. At Megalopolis the god was represented with the head of a ram (Paus. viii.32 § 1), and the Greeks of Cyrenaica dedicated at Delphi a chariot with a statue of Ammon.\n\nSuch was its reputation among the Classical Greeks that Alexander the Great journeyed there after the battle of Issus and during his occupation of Egypt, where he was declared \"the son of Amun\" by the oracle. Alexander thereafter considered himself divine. Even during this occupation, Amun, identified by these Greeks as a form of Zeus, continued to be the principal local deity of Thebes.\n\nThe Cyrenaican Greeks built temples for the Libyan god Amon instead of their original god Zeus. They later identified their supreme god Zeus with the Libyan Amon. Some of them continued worshipping Amon himself.\nAmon's cult was so widespread among the Greeks that even Alexander the Great decided to be declared as the son of Zeus in the Siwan temple by the Libyan priests of Amon.\n\nAlthough the most modern sources ignored the existence of Amun in the Berber mythology, he was maybe the greatest ancient Berber god. He was honored by the Ancient Greeks in Cyrenaica, and was united with the Phoenician/Carthaginian god Baal-hamon due to Libyan influence. Some depictions of the ram across North Africa belong to the lythic period which is situated between 9600 BC and 7500 BC. \nThe most famous Amun's temple in Ancient Libya was the temple at the oasis of Siwa.\nThe name of the ancient Berber tribes: \"Garamantes\" and \"Nasamonians\" are believed by some scholars to be related to the name \"Amon\".\n\nIn Awelimmiden Tuareg, the name \"Amanai\" is believed to have the meaning of \"God\". The Ancient Libyans may have worshipped the setting sun, which was personified by Amon, who was represented by the ram's horns.\n\nIn Carthage and North Africa Baal-hamon was especially associated with the ram and was worshiped also as Baʿal Qarnaim (\"Lord of Two Horns\") in an open-air sanctuary at Jebel Bu Kornein (\"the two-horned hill\") across the bay from Carthage.\n\nThe Egyptian god Ammon-Ra was depicted with ram horns. Rams were considered a symbol of virility due to their rutting behavior. The horns of Ammon may have also represented the East and West of the Earth, and one of the titles of Ammon was \"the two-horned.\" Alexander was depicted with the horns of Ammon as a result of his conquest of ancient Egypt in 332 BC, where the priesthood received him as the son of the god Ammon, who was identified by the ancient Greeks with Zeus, the King of the Gods. The combined deity Zeus-Ammon was a distinct figure in ancient Greek mythology. According to five historians of antiquity (Arrian, Curtius, Diodorus, Justin, and Plutarch), Alexander visited the Oracle of Ammon at Siwa in the Libyan desert and rumors spread that the Oracle had revealed Alexander's father to be the deity Ammon, rather than Philip. Alexander styled himself as the son of Zeus-Ammon and even demanded to be worshiped as a god:\n\nHe seems to have become convinced of the reality of his own divinity and to have required its acceptance by others ... The cities perforce complied, but often ironically: the Spartan decree read, \" 'Since Alexander wishes to be a god, let him be a god.' \"\n\nPan was a god of shepherds and flocks, of mountain wilds and rustic music.\n\nDepictions in Celtic cultures of figures with antlers are often identified as Cernunnos (\"horned one\" in Latin). The prime evidence for this comes from a pillar in Paris which also features the Roman god Jupiter.\n\nCocidius was the name of a Romano-British war-god and local deity from the area around Hadrian's Wall, who is sometimes represented as being horned. He is associated with warfare and woodland and was worshipped mostly by military personnel and the lower classes.\n\nEliphas Levi, the 18th century occultist, believed that the pseudohistorical god \"Baphomet\" (that the Roman Catholic Church had claimed was worshipped by the heretical Knights Templar), was actually the horned Libyan oracle god (Ammon), or, the Goat of Mendes.\n\nFor many years scholars have interpreted the Gundestrup Cauldron's images in terms of the Celtic pantheon. The antlered figure in plate A has been commonly identified as Cernunnos.\n\nA ram-shaped oracle god whose name is unknown (Baal Hamon – Phoenician / Carthaginian ) was worshiped by Libyan tribes at Siwa. The figure was incorporated by the Egyptians into depictions of their god Amun that's considered an \"Interpretatio graeca\" of the Greek Zeus-Ammon.\n\nAdherents of Odinani (the traditional folk religion of the Igbo people of south-eastern Nigeria) worship the Ikenga, a horned god of honest achievement, whose two horns symbolise self-will. Small wooden statues of him are made and praised as personal altars.\n\nThe Pashupati seal, a seal discovered during the excavation of Mohenjo-daro in Pakistan has drawn attention as a possible representation of a \"proto-Shiva\" figure. This \"Pashupati\" (Lord of animal-like beings – Sanskrit ') seal shows a seated figure with horns, possibly ithyphallic, surrounded by animals.\n\nThe Horned Serpent appears in the mythologies of many Native Americans. Details vary among tribes, with many of the stories associating the mystical figure with water, rain, lightning and thunder. Horned Serpents were major components of the Southeastern Ceremonial Complex of North American prehistory.\n\nThe Canaanite gods Baal and El were likely originally horned bull gods.\n\"I will cut off the horns of all the wicked, but the horns of the righteous will be lifted up.\"\nIn majesty he (Jacob) is like a firstborn bull; his horns are the horns of a wild ox. With them he will gore the nations, even those at the ends of the earth.\nThen I saw a second beast, coming out of the earth. It had two horns like a lamb, but it spoke like a dragon.\nThe priest shall then put some of the blood on the horns of the (Yahweh's) altar of fragrant incense that is before the LORD in the tent of meeting. The rest of the bull's blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering at the entrance to the tent of meeting.\n\nThe depiction of a horned Moses stems from the description of Moses' face as \"cornuta\" (\"horned\") in the Latin Vulgate translation of the passage from Exodus in which Moses returns to the people after receiving the Ten Commandments for the second time. The Douay–Rheims Bible translates the Vulgate as, \"And when Moses came down from the mount Sinai, he held the two tables of the testimony, and he knew not that his face was horned from the conversation of the Lord.\"\n\nThe idea that demons have horns seems to have been taken from the Book of Revelation chapter 13. The book of Revelation seems to have inspired many depictions of demons. This idea has also been associated with the depiction of certain ancient gods like Moloch and the shedu, etc., which were portrayed as bulls, as men with the head of a bull, or wearing bull horns as a crown.\n\nThe satanic \"horned god\" symbol known as the baphomet is based on an Egyptian ram deity that was worshipped in Mendes, called Banebdjed (literally Ba of the lord of djed, and titled \"the Lord of Mendes\"), who was the soul of Osiris. According to \"Egyptian Mythology: A Guide to the Gods, Goddesses, and Traditions of ancient Egypt\", the book's author Geraldine Harris, said the ram gods Ra-Amun (see: Cult of Ammon), and Banebdjed, were to mystically unite with the queen of Egypt to sire the heir to the throne (a theory based on depictions found in several Theban temples in Mendes).\n\nOccultist Eliphas Levi in his \"Dogme et Rituel de la Haute Magie\" (1855), combined the images of the Tarot of Marseilles' Devil card and refigured the ram Banebdjed as a he-goat, calling it the \"Baphomet of Mendes,\" (or, \"Goat of Mendes\"). The inaccurate description can be traced back to \"Herodotus' Histories Book II\", where Herodotus describes the deity of Mendes as having a goat's head and fleece, when Banebdjedet was really represented by a ram, not a goat.\n\nThe Baphomet of Lévi was to become an important figure within the cosmology of Thelema, the mystical system established by Aleister Crowley in the early twentieth century. Baphomet features in the Creed of the Gnostic Catholic Church recited by the congregation in \"The Gnostic Mass\", in the sentence: \"And I believe in the Serpent and the Lion, Mystery of Mystery, in His name BAPHOMET\" (see: Aleister Crowley: Occult).\n\nLévi's Baphomet is the source of the later Tarot image of the Devil in the Rider-Waite design. The concept of a downward-pointing pentagram on its forehead was enlarged upon by Lévi in his discussion (without illustration) of the Goat of Mendes arranged within such a pentagram, which he contrasted with the microcosmic man arranged within a similar but upright pentagram. The actual image of a goat in a downward-pointing pentagram first appeared in the 1897 book \"La Clef de la Magie Noire\" by Stanislas de Guaita, later adopted as the official symbol—called the Sigil of Baphomet—of the Church of Satan, and continues to be used among Satanists.\n\nFew neopagan reconstructionist traditions recognize Satan or the Devil outright. However, many neopagan groups worship some sort of Horned God, for example as a consort of the Great Goddess in Wicca. These gods usually reflect mythological figures such as Cernunnos or Pan, and any similarity they may have to the Christian Devil seems to date back only to the 19th century, when a Christian reaction to Pan's growing importance in literature and art resulted in his image being translated to that of the Devil.\n\nIn 1985 Classical historian Georg Luck, in his \"Arcana Mundi: Magic and the Occult in the Greek and Roman Worlds\", theorised that the origins of the Witch-cult may have appeared in late antiquity as a faith primarily designed to worship the Horned God, stemming from the merging of Cernunnos, a horned god of the Celts, with the Greco-Roman Pan/Faunus, a combination of gods which he posits created a new deity, around which the remaining pagans, those refusing to convert to Christianity, rallied and that this deity provided the prototype for later Christian conceptions of the Devil, and his worshippers were cast by the Church as witches.\n\nThere is an implied connection between Satan and Beelzebub (lit. \"Lord of the Flies\"), originally a Semitic deity called Baal (lit. \"lord\"). Beelzebub is the most recognized demon in the Bible, whose name has become analogous to Satan. Occult and metaphysical author Michelle Belanger believes that Beelzebub (a mockery of the original name) is the horned god Ba'al Hadad, whose cult symbol was the bull. According to \"The Encyclopedia of Witches, Witchcraft and Wicca\", Beelzebub reigned over the Witches' Sabbath (\"synagoga\"), and that witches denied Christ in his name and chanted \"Beelzebub\" as they danced.\n\nBeelzebub was also imagined to be sowing his influence in Salem, Massachusetts: his name came up repeatedly during the Salem witch trials, the last large-scale public expression of witch hysteria in North America or Europe, and afterwards Rev. Cotton Mather wrote a pamphlet entitled \"Of Beelzebub and his Plot.\"\n\nIn 1933, the Egyptologist Margaret Murray published the book, \"The God of the Witches\", in which she theorised that Pan was merely one form of a horned god who was worshipped across Europe by a witch-cult. This theory influenced the Neopagan notion of the Horned God, as an archetype of male virility and sexuality. In Wicca, the archetype of the Horned God is highly important, and is thought by believers to be represented by such deities as the Celtic Cernunnos, Indian Pashupati and Greek Pan.\n\nHorned God in Wiccan based neopagan religions represents a solar god often associated with vegetation, that's honored as the \"Holly King\" or \"Oak King\" in Neopagan rituals. Most often, the Horned God is considered a male fertility god. The use of horns as a symbol for power dates back to the ancient world. From ancient Egypt and the Ba'al worshipping Cannanites, to the Greeks, Romans, Celts, and various other cultures. Horns have ever been present in religious imagery as symbols of fertility and power. It was not until Christianity attributed horns to Satan as part of his iconography that horned gods became associated with evil in Western mythology:\n\nMany modern neo-Pagans focus their worship on a horned god, or often \"the\" Horned God and one or more goddesses. Deities such as Pan and Dionysus have had attributes of their worship imported into the Neopagan concept as have the Celtic Cernunnos and Gwynn ap Nudd, one of the mythological leaders of the Wild Hunt\n\n"}
{"id": "9833155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9833155", "title": "Journal of Cuneiform Studies", "text": "Journal of Cuneiform Studies\n\nThe Journal of Cuneiform Studies was founded in 1947 by the Baghdad School of the American Schools of Oriental Research. The journal presents articles about ancient Mesopotamian language and history in English, French and German.\n\n"}
{"id": "30107349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30107349", "title": "Journal of Medieval Religious Cultures", "text": "Journal of Medieval Religious Cultures\n\nThe Journal of Medieval Religious Cultures is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes essays on mystical and devotional texts, especially from the Western Middle Ages. It is published twice a year by Penn State University Press. The journal previously went by the names \"14th Century English Mystics Newsletter\" (1974-1983) and \"Mystics Quarterly\" (1984-2008).\n"}
{"id": "26884616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26884616", "title": "Langston Hughes Library", "text": "Langston Hughes Library\n\nThe Langston Hughes Library is a private non-circulating library designed by Maya Lin, and located on the Haley Farm in Clinton, Tennessee. It contains a 5,000-volume reference collection focusing on works by African-American authors and illustrators, and books focused on the Black experience.\n\nHaley farm was once owned by writer Alex Haley, and was purchased by the Children's Defense Fund in 1994. It is now run as a retreat center, with training and conference facilities, the Riggio-Lynch Interfaith Chapel, guest cottages, and the library. The farm consists of surrounded by ridges of the Appalachian mountains, and is north of Knoxville. The grounds of the farm include streams, a lake, an apple orchard, and a ropes course.\n\nThe Langston Hughes Library was dedicated on March 19, 1999. The dedication ceremony was attended by such important figures as Maya Angelou, Hillary Rodham Clinton, John Franklin, and Toni Morrison. The Children's Defense Fund and its sister organization, the Black Community Crusade for Children, run this library \"as an incubator for the CDF's \"Leave No Child Behind\" movement.\n\nThe Library is a 1,200 square foot 2-story building with a single reading room upstairs and entryway and a small bookstore in the south corn crib. The reading room was designed to be a flexible space, allowing for public readings or personal study areas, as needed.\n\nAn 1860s refurbished barn and two corn cribs comprise the exterior skin of the building. The rustic exterior, which evokes the \"architectural vernacular of 19th-century East Tennessee, a plain language of silvery, time-worn siding, rough logs, and minimal geometries\" is melded with modern Shaker-like simplicity on the interior.\n\nMaya Lin pointed out that the function of the exterior and that of the interior were different and thus she \"wanted to make a real cut between outside and inside…there didn't seem to be much point in preserving the rustic feel of the barn's interior\".\n\nOne of the most striking aspects of the design are the glass-encased corn cribs that act as a base for the cantelievered barn that sits atop them. Margaret Butler of Martella Associates states that the glass between the logs \"glows like a Chinese lantern\" at night.\n\nThe Library was designed by Maya Lin, most famous for her Vietnam Veteran's Memorial in Washington DC., and who also created the Civil Rights Memorial in Montgomery, AL. Martella Associates, Knoxville, were the architect of record.\n\nLin explains her vision: \"The idea was to maintain the integrity and character of the old barn yet introduce a new inner layer…expressing the idea of a separate inner skin slipping inside the old barn\". \"I'd never seen a shape like that before and wanted to save it….once I realized that the book collection was small and the library would be used as an intimate gathering space, I came up with the concept of an elevated reading room\".\n\nThe exterior skin consists of a reclaimed barn and two corncribs, held together with glass and steel bars. \"Crib walls are supported by threaded steel rod, expressing this new architectural element, instead of hiding it\".\n\nThe interior spaces use new materials: maple and particleboard, sisal mats and recycled soybean husk tabletops designed by Lin. The materials chosen were either recycled or \"green\". Natural daylight floods the interiors via large skylights and windows, reducing the need for artificial lighting. The exterior space between the two cribs incorporates a small stone fountain that gives the \"'transitory' space a new life and making a positive space out of a void\". A nearby pond is used \"as a natural heat exchanger to help reduce the library's energy costs\".\n\nA critic for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer appreciates \"the quiet, reductive clarity of her work\" and states that Lin \"has transformed a barn into a Frank Gehry-like marvel of colored light and air\". Alex Ross of Stanford University considers the library a \"marvelous example of adaptive re-use.\"\n\nThe Children's Defense Fund purpose in building the Langston Hughes Library was to \"connects young leaders and activists with the glorious heritage of the struggle for freedom, and is where policy makers and community builders come to connect, recharge their spiritual and physical batteries\" and act as a \"training ground for the next generation of leadership, advocacy and service for children and families\".\nArchitect Maya Lin states that her mission in creating the library was to \"create a fluid transition between a building and its site, so that you will always feel connected to the land\"(.\n\n\"The collection specializes in publications about children's advocacy; spirituality; nonviolence; the Civil Rights Movement, with particular attention to the role of women; women's leadership; African American history, literature, and culture; African culture and history; and children's literature. Special highlights of the collection are the hundreds of books that have been chosen as CDF Freedom Schools books\". Original manuscripts of seminal works in African-American literature are being collected. Internet-based access Tennessee Electronic Library (TEL) databases is available for academic research.\n\nThe Langston Hughes Library's patrons include activists, students, tourists, dignitaries, scholars. Class visits are held, festivals are hosted and retreats are accommodated at the Haley Farm. Events such as the Langston Hughes Library Roundtable, Langston Hughes Children's Literature Festival and African American Read-In are regularly held at the Haley Farm.\n\nKhafre Abif, currently at the Cleveland Public Library, was the first director of the library. He expressed his desire to reach children directly as his impetus to seek his MLS. Abif spoke about children's library services, \"this is where it begins, if you do it right at this age you will have library lovers for life and you won't have to convince adults of the power of libraries, they'll already know\". He acted as director of the Langston Hughes Library through at least 2002.\n\nThe building project was partially funded by from Barnes & Noble CEO Len Riggio and his wife Louise. Ongoing funding for acquisitions and operations are provided by the Children's Defense Fund. \nPlanned improvements to the Haley Farm include \"a Walking Path to Commemorate the Cloud of Witnesses for Social Justice\" and an Outward Bound camp. Maya Lin also designed the Riggio-Lynch Chapel located on Haley Farm, built in 2004, making Haley Farm \"the only site in the United States with two Maya Lin structures\".\n"}
{"id": "31592824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31592824", "title": "Linguistic Atlas of the Upper Midwest", "text": "Linguistic Atlas of the Upper Midwest\n\nThe Linguistic Atlas of the Upper Midwest, edited by Harold B. Allen, is a linguistic map describing the dialects of the American Upper Midwest.\n"}
{"id": "8229386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8229386", "title": "List of Exalted publications", "text": "List of Exalted publications\n\nBelow is a listing of all of the sourcebooks for the role-playing game Exalted (first and second editions) by White Wolf Publishing. For a list of the Exalted comics by UDON, see Exalted (comics).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31870803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31870803", "title": "List of people declared persona non grata", "text": "List of people declared persona non grata\n\nThis is a list of people declared \"persona non grata\". \"Persona non grata\" (Latin, plural: \"personae non gratae\"), literally meaning \"an unwelcome person\", is a legal term used in diplomacy that indicates a proscription against a foreign person entering or remaining in the country. It is the most serious form of censure that one country can apply to foreign diplomats, who are otherwise protected by diplomatic immunity from arrest and other normal kinds of prosecution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5172473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5172473", "title": "Live from New York, it's Saturday Night!", "text": "Live from New York, it's Saturday Night!\n\n\"Live from New York, it's Saturday Night!\" is a famous phrase typically featured on the American sketch comedy show \"Saturday Night Live\", which runs on the NBC broadcast network. It is generally used as a way to end a cold opening sketch and lead into the opening titles/montage and cast introductions for the program.\n\nDuring the show's first season, the show was known simply as \"NBC's Saturday Night\", due to the existence of an ABC show titled \"Saturday Night Live with Howard Cosell\". This is how the phrase received its wording. The phrase was kept intact even after ABC's \"SNL\" was canceled and \"NBC's Saturday Night\" adopted the \"SNL\" name for itself.\n\nThe phrase is typically spoken by a host, cast member(s), and/or musical guest, and has been used in every season except one (the 1981-1982 season, the first full season with Dick Ebersol as producer). It was first said live on air by Chevy Chase, on \"SNL\"s first show on October 11, 1975. For all but two of the first season's 24 episodes, Chase delivered the phrase after a pratfall of some kind. Even when the show is not aired on a Saturday—such as the \"Saturday Night Live Weekend Update Thursday\" specials aired from 2008 to 2012, and again in 2017—the traditional line is used. \n\nThe person delivering the phrase usually breaks character and the fourth wall, in that the phrase is normally not spoken to other cast members as part of the regular dialogue in the opening sketch. Instead, the person suddenly turns (if not already facing downstage) and delivers the phrase directly to the audience and the camera with a full-throated shout. At the same time, the camera zooms in for a tight close-up shot of the person's face, followed by a dissolve to the show's opening montage and titles.\n\nThe line has occasionally been given to a non-host/non-cast member for cameo purposes. This could be for stars like Brad Pitt and Dwayne \"The Rock\" Johnson, or for more unusual celebrities like Monica Lewinsky, \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire\" winner John Carpenter, WWE chairman Vince McMahon (on March 18, 2000), Carolyn Kepcher (on April 3, 2004), Al Sharpton (on November 2, 2013), and Stormy Daniels (on May 5, 2018).\n\nGerald Ford opened the show with the phrase on April 17, 1976, which came during his presidency.\nA series of Presidential and Vice Presidential hopefuls have also announced the phrase on their appearances on the show, beginning with Bob Dole on November 16, 1996 (coming after the 1996 election). It was announced by Barack Obama on November 3, 2007, by Hillary Clinton on March 1, 2008, by Sarah Palin on October 18, 2008, and by John McCain on November 1, 2008.\n"}
{"id": "16269989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16269989", "title": "Malecite-Passamaquoddy language", "text": "Malecite-Passamaquoddy language\n\nMalecite–Passamaquoddy (also known as Maliseet–Passamaquoddy) is an endangered Algonquian language spoken by the Maliseet and Passamaquoddy peoples along both sides of the border between Maine in the United States and New Brunswick, Canada. The language consists of two major dialects: Malecite, which is mainly spoken in the Saint John River Valley in New Brunswick; and Passamaquoddy, spoken mostly in the St. Croix River Valley of eastern Maine. However, the two dialects differ only slightly, mainly in accent. Malecite-Passamaquoddy was widely spoken by the indigenous people in these areas until around the post-World War II era, when changes in the education system and increased marriage outside of the speech community caused a large decrease in the number of children who learned or regularly used the language. As a result, in both Canada and the U.S. today, there are only 600 speakers of both dialects, and most speakers are older adults. Although the majority of younger people cannot speak the language (particularly the Passamaquoddy dialect), there is growing interest in teaching the language in community classes and in some schools.\n\nThe Malecite-Passamaquoddy standard orthography consists of 17 letters and an apostrophe. The following tables are based on the sound system described by Robert M. Leavitt in \"Passamaquoddy-Maliseet\" (1996). The bold letters are the spelling in the standard orthography and the symbols in square brackets give the respective IPA pronunciation:\n\nAdditionally, the standard orthography uses an apostrophe () to represent word-initial consonants that are no longer pronounced due to historic sound changes. It occurs only word-initially before \"p\", \"t\", \"k\", \"q\", \"s\", or \"c\". These \"missing consonants\" can appear in other forms of the word. For example, the stem \"ktomakéyu\" produces the word \"tomakéyu\" \"s/he is poor\" (where the apostrophe indicates that the initial \"k\" has been dropped) as well as the word \"nkótomakey\" \"I am poor\" (where the \"k\" remains pronounced because it occurs after the pronoun \"n-\").\n\nThere are six monophthongs, five of which are spelled with a single letter and one which is spelled with the combination \"eh\". There are also five diphthongs, which are spelled as a combination of a vowel and a glide:\n\n(When \"o\" appears before \"w\", it is written as \"u\" to reflect the rounding of the vowel due to the influence of the \"w\"). (/e/ may also be pronounced as /ɛ/).\n\nThere are many phonological processes that occur in Malecite-Passamaquoddy, the most important of which are outlined below:\n\n\n\n\nEvery phoneme except \"o\" and \"h\" can occur initially, medially, or finally; \"o\" and \"h\" are never word-final. Clusters of two obstruents, geminate consonant pairs, and clusters of a sonorant followed by an obstruent are all common. Consonant clusters ending in a sonorant usually don't occur except in geminate pairs or when they occur initially through the use of one of the personal pronoun prefixes. Clusters of three consonants can occur, and are almost always of the form \"CsC\".\n\nThe most basic and common syllable structures are \"CV\" and \"CVC\".\n\nStress is assigned based on a set of very complex rules, and difference in stress and accent systems is one of the clearest distinguishing features between Malecite and Passamaquoddy. According to LeSourd, in Passamaquoddy there are vowels that are considered stressable and ones that are considered unstressable. Stressable vowels are available to be acted on by stress rules, while unstressable vowels might undergo syncope. Stress is assigned (to stressable vowels only) to initial syllables and even-numbered syllables, counting from right to left. There is a simultaneous left to right process that reassigns some unstressable vowels as stressable. Unstressable vowels which do not become stressable based on the left to right process are subject to syncope based on five rules LeSourd outlines in \"Accent and Syllable Structure in Passamaquoddy\". Malecite has a similar process but the finer details of the stress assignment rules are different.\n\nIn addition to stress rules, there are also rules that assign pitch to some syllables based on their position in the words. As LeSourd describes, Passamaquoddy stressed syllables can be relatively high-pitched or low-pitched, and final unstressed syllables can be distinctively low-pitched. Malecite has similar pitch assignments, but again, differs from Passamaquoddy in ways which serve to distinguish the two dialects.\n\nThere are four categories of words in Malecite-Passamaquoddy: nouns, pronouns, verbs, and particles; every type except particles are inflected. Like other Algonquian languages, Malecite-Passamaquoddy is polysynthetic, often combining many morphemes into one word unit. It is also fairly agglutinative, with many morphemes generally corresponding to a single unit of meaning.\n\nA basic characteristic of Malecite-Passamaquoddy is that all nouns and pronouns have noun classes: Like other Algonquian languages, nouns are either animate or inanimate. All abstract nouns (such as \"prayer\", \"happiness\", \"the past\") are inanimate; people, personal names, animals, and trees are all animate. There is not a perfect correspondence between the inherent \"animateness\" of a noun and its class for all words, however: the words for \"fingernail\" and \"knee\" are animate, but the words for \"heart\" and \"tongue\" are inanimate. Verbs impose restrictions on the noun class that one of their arguments must be. The easiest way to distinguish animate and inanimate nouns is by their plural forms. Animate plural nouns end in \"-k\", and inanimate plural nouns end in \"-l\".\n\nIn addition to class and number, animate nouns and pronouns (except \"I,\" \"we,\" and \"you\") are marked in sentences as either proximate or obviative. Inanimate nouns are never marked as obviative. Proximate nouns refer to something that is near the speaker or most central to the discourse, whereas obviative nouns refer to something that is distanced or more remote from consideration. When two nouns or pronouns are conjoined, they can both be proximate or both obviative. In all other cases, when two or more animate nouns or pronouns appear in the same clause, one will be proximate (the focus of the clause) and the others will be obviative. Proximate is the \"default\" noun ending; obviative forms use different endings.\n\nAdditionally, nouns can also be inflected for the absentative, locative, and (with some nouns) vocative cases. The Passamaquoddy-Maliseet Language Portal includes a chart showing all the possible declensions of nouns in various forms. Notably, the absentative case is marked not only with endings, but also changes in pitch contour.\n\nNouns can also be marked with diminutive and/or feminine suffixes. When these are combined with case markings, the order of suffixes is as follows:\n\nSome nouns cannot appear in an unpossessed form—that is, they must appear with one of the personal pronoun prefixes. All body parts and kinship terms are in this class. For each of these words there is a corresponding word that can appear unpossessed. For example,\" 'temisol\" \"dog\" must appear in a possessed form, but \"olomuss\" \"dog\" is usually never possessed.\n\nNouns can be used in apposition with other nouns and function like adjectives (which do not exist as a separate class of words).\n\nParticiples can be formed from the Changed Conjunct form of a verb and use the special plural endings \"-ik\" (animate) or \"-il\" (inanimate).\n\nThere are five types of pronouns: personal, demonstrative, interrogative, the word \"other\", and a hesitator/filler pronoun.\n\nPersonal pronouns differ from nouns and other pronouns in that they do not use plural markers but instead each form is unique. The third person is gender-neutral and there are both inclusive and exclusive forms of the second person plural pronoun. The first and second person singular also have longer emphatic forms:\n\nThere are three demonstrative pronouns, which have both animate and inanimate forms and are inflected for number, obviation, and absentativity:\n\nThe interrogative pronouns are \"wen\" \"who? (referring to animate noun)\" and \"keq\" \"what? (referring to inanimate noun)\". They are also inflected for number, obviation, and absentativity.\n\nThe word \"kotok\" \"another, other\" is a pronoun that also has animate and inanimate forms that can be inflected with various endings.\n\nOne of the most interesting features is the pronoun that functions similarly to English \"uh...\" or \"er...\", but which is inflected to match the anticipated word. Compare the bolded pronoun in:\nto:\n\nVerbs are built from word stems, which consist of one or more roots. Roots can be initial, medial, or final, and can be combined to build rich levels of meaning into a verb:\n\nVerbs are classified by the final root in their stem, which marks them as transitive or intransitive. Some verbs that have a direct object when they are translated into English are in reality intransitive verbs where the noun has been incorporated into the verb: \"posonut•ehk•e\" (basket-do.AI-3.sg) \"he/she makes baskets\".\n\nBecause Malecite-Passamaquoddy is polysynthetic, a large amount of grammatical information is expressed in one verb through the use of various inflections and affixes:\nThe possible modes and how they are used in sentences are:\n\nThe possible tenses are:\n\nThe Passamaquoddy-Maliseet Language Portal also includes verbs charts showing extensive conjugations of different classes of verbs.\n\nParticles are all the words in the language that aren't inflected. They include:\n\nThe verb system is ergative–absolutive, meaning that the subjects of intransitive verbs behave like the objects of transitive verbs. Because of this, transitive and intransitive verbs have subcategories based on which gender one of their arguments must be, so that there are four major verb types:\n\nAI intransitive verbs can only be used with animate subjects, TI verbs can only be used with inanimate objects, etc.\n\nBecause of the polysynthetic nature of verbs, subjects and objects are often not separate words but rather affixes attached to the verbs; therefore, one word \"sentences\" are possible and even common.\n\nMalecite-Passamaquoddy, along with other Algonquian languages, is also a direct–inverse language, which means the subjects and objects of transitive verbs are marked differently in different contexts according to where they fall relative to each other on a \"person hierarchy\". The person hierarchy lays out which word is considered more salient or takes precedence over another form. Leavitt's grammar gives the following hierarchy:\n\nThe hierarchy comes into play in sentences with transitive-animate (TA) verbs. When the subject of a TA verb is higher on the person hierarchy than the object, the verb is conjugated in the direct form. If the subject is lower on the hierarchy than the object, the verb is conjugated in the inverse form. The direct form is considered unmarked, and the inverse is shown by theme markers. Because of the direct–inverse system, Malecite-Passamaquoddy does not have a clear way of otherwise showing active–passive distinction on verbs.\n\nAnother case for which the hierarchy is relevant is in reflexive and reciprocal verb forms. For them, the action is considered \"self-contained\" because they occur on the same level of the hierarchy. Thus, reflexive and reciprocal verbs are no longer transitive but become intransitive, with only one argument being shown and a reflexive or reciprocal theme marker used.\n\nSome first- and second-person pronouns overlap in meaning; for example \"kilun\" \"we (inclusive)\" includes within its meaning \"nil\" \"I\". Overlapping pairs of this sort cannot be used as the subject-object pair of a transitive verb. Leavitt gives the following chart outlining the restrictions on how first- and second-person subject-object pairs can occur for transitive verbs:\n\nBecause so much grammatical information is encoded in each word, word order is very free, and there are few restrictions on the order words can appear, especially in simple one-verb sentences. One of the only restrictions is that the negative particle must precede the verb, but other words may intervene.\n\nThere is no word for the verb \"to be\" in the language so identity sentences with no verb are possible. The word order is less free than in sentences with verbs and is fixed in negative identities.\n\nComplex and compound sentences with two or more verbs can be created in multiple ways, such as these:\n\nToday Malecite-Passamaquoddy has a ranking of 7 on the Expanded Graded Intergenerational Disruption Scale (EGIDS); a 7 corresponds to \"Shifting: The child-bearing generation can use the language among themselves, but it is not being transmitted to children.\" However, in spite of this bleak assessment, there are significant efforts to revitalize the language and teach both children and adults who did not learn the language natively.\n\nSince 2006, a project known as Language Keepers, which attempts to document endangered languages and increase public group discourse carried out in these languages, has worked with the Passamaquoddy and Maliseet communities and done extensive documentation of the language. In their first three years of work, they filmed over 50 hours of natural group conversation with 70 speakers, which led to the production of eight DVDs in Malecite-Passamaquoddy subtitled in English. According to the Passamaquoddy-Maliseet Language Portal, this film \"stimulated language revival programs for people who understand but cannot speak, and identified new sources of resiliency and leadership in the language-speaking community.\" Their approach to documentation is fairly novel and has garnered praise: \"In contrast to 'elicitation,' in which linguists ask speakers questions to learn about a language, Language Keepers videos show how the language works in practice, and have provided many \"new\" words for the dictionary. They also document traditional Passamaquoddy culture—activities, like canoe-building, and views of the world.\"\n\nIn addition to the film, the Language Keepers project—along with other linguists and community activists—has helped compile the Passamaquoddy-Maliseet Dictionary, which was started in the 1970s by linguists Philip LeSourd and today includes over 18,000 entries, many of which include audio and video files of native speaker pronunciations.\n\nAlong with the various resources available online, recent revitalization efforts have included Malecite-Passamaquoddy classes being taught at the University of New Brunswick, with efforts to increase inter-generational communication and transmission of knowledge and culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "59138528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59138528", "title": "Martin Barker", "text": "Martin Barker\n\nMartin Barker is a British author and researcher specialising in the study of media audiences. He co-founded \"Participations: Journal of Audience & Reception Studies\" in 2003 and serves as editor. He is now an Emeritus Professor at Aberystwyth University, Wales, and is overseeing an international audience research project on \"Game of Thrones\".\n\nBarker worked for 29 years at the University of West England, becoming Head of the School of Cultural Studies, before spending 2 years as a reader at the University of Sussex. In January 2001, Barker was appointed as a Professor of Film and Television Studies at Aberystwyth University, where he is now an Emeritus Professor.\n\nEarly in his academic career, Barker researched and published work on racism in the UK and children’s comics, including \"Action\" and \"2000 AD\". He coined the term \"new racism\" in 1981 in the context of racist public discourse about immigration to the UK during the reign of Margaret Thatcher.\n\nIn the 1980s, Barker became an outspoken critic of the video nasties censorship campaign in the UK, which was led by the \"Daily Mail\" and public pressure group the National Viewers' and Listeners' Association, spearheaded by Mary Whitehouse. A later book, \"Ill Effects: The Media Violence Debate\", co-edited with Julian Petley, dismantled theories of “media effects” and “copycat violence” inspired by violent media which were reported often as “common sense” in the British press.\n\nLater in his career, Barker focused much more on studies of media audiences, drawing upon his background in cultural studies. His co-authored study of audiences of the Sylvester Stallone film, \"Judge Dredd\", was influential in the field of audience studies. In response to the censorship campaign against David Cronenberg’s \"Crash\", again by the Daily Mail, Barker, along with Jane Arthurs and Ramiswami Harindranath, oversaw and authored a study on the film’s reception in the press and conducted an audience study. This was published as \"The Crash Controversy: Censorship Campaigns and Film Reception\" by Wallflower Press in 2001. Over the course of these and other audience studies, Barker developed a methodology for studying audiences which to date remains very influential in the field. \n\nAt Aberystwyth University, Barker was commissioned by British film censors, the BBFC, to produce research on audiences and issues around watching sexual violence on screen. He has recently been an outspoken critic of recent research used by the BBFC to justify implementing tighter censorship.\n\nBarker served as director on an ESRC-funded international audience research project on \"The Lord of the Rings\" which resulted in \"Watching Lord of the Rings: Tolkien's World Audiences\". A follow-up project was overseen by Barker, studying audience responses to \"The Hobbit\", which involved 145 researchers in 46 countries. It received 36, 109 responses and is the largest audience study ever conducted. He is currently directing the international \"Game of Thrones\" audience study.\n\n"}
{"id": "6445302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6445302", "title": "Myazedi inscription", "text": "Myazedi inscription\n\nMyazedi inscription ( ; also Yazakumar Inscription or the Gubyaukgyi Inscription), inscribed in 1113, is the oldest surviving stone inscription of the Burmese. \"Myazedi\" means \"emerald stupa\" (\"zedi\" being akin to the Pali \"cetiya\" and Thai \"chedi\"), and the name of the inscription comes from a pagoda located nearby. The inscriptions were made in four languages: Burmese, Pyu, Mon, and Pali, which all tell the story of Prince Yazakumar and King Kyansittha. The primary importance of the Myazedi inscription is that the inscriptions allowed for the deciphering of the written Pyu language.\n\nThere are two main inscriptions in Burma today. One exists on the platform of the Myazedi Pagoda, in the village of Myinkaba (south of Bagan), in Mandalay Division. The other was discovered by German Pali scholar Dr. Emil Forchammar in 1886-1887, and is currently in display at the Bagan Archaeological Museum.\n\n\n\nMyazedi Inscription at AncientBagan.com \n\nMyazedi Inscription A at Zenodo \n\nMyazedi Inscription B at Zenodo \n"}
{"id": "7188451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7188451", "title": "Null instantiation", "text": "Null instantiation\n\nIn frame semantics, a theory of linguistic meaning, null instantiation is the name of a category used to annotate, or tag, absent semantic constituents or frame elements (Fillmore et al. 2003, Section 3.4). Frame semantics, best exemplified by the FrameNet project, views words as evoking frames of knowledge and frames as typically involving multiple components, called frame elements (e.g. buyer and goods in an acquisition). The term null refers to the fact that the frame element in question is absent. The logical object of the term instantiation refers to the frame element itself. So, null instantiation is an empty instantiation of a frame element. Ruppenhofer and Michaelis postulate an implicational regularity tying the interpretation type of an omitted argument to the frame membership of its predicator: \"If a particular frame element role is lexically omissible under a particular interpretation (either anaphoric or existential) for one LU [lexical unit] in a frame, then for any other LUs in the same frame that allow the omission of this same FE [frame element], the interpretation of the missing FE is the same.\" (Ruppenhofer and Michaelis 2014: 66)\n\nDefinite null instantiation is the absence of a frame element that is recoverable from the context. It is similar to a zero anaphor.\n\nIndefinite null instantiation is the absence of the object of a potentially transitive verb such as \"eat\" or \"drink.\"\n\nConstructional null instantiation is the absence of a frame element due to a syntactic construction, e.g. the optional omission of agents in passive sentences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42497775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42497775", "title": "Objects conservator", "text": "Objects conservator\n\nAn Objects conservator is a professional, working in a museum setting or private practice, that specializes in the conservation of three-dimensional works. They undergo specialized education, training, and experience that allows them to formulate and implement preventative strategies and invasive treatment protocols to preserve cultural property for the future. Objects conservators typically specialize in one type of material or class of cultural property, including metals, archaeological artifacts, ethnographic artifacts, glass, and ceramic art. Objects conservation presents many challenges due to their three-dimensional form and composite nature.\n\nThe diverse nature of artifacts that fall into the category of three dimensional objects presents a unique challenge to compiling a set of common procedures. However, preventative measures and treatment methodologies involve similar considerations that need to be addressed, regardless of the object's composition. In the words of Cesare Brandi, \"Restoration must aim to reestablish the potential unity of the work of art, as long as this is possible without producing an artistic or historical forgery and without erasing every trace of the passage of time left on the work of art.\" This means that an Objects Conservator needs to know when to draw the line, and communicate that limit to the object's custodian.\n\nWhile not as glamorous or hands-on as the other steps in this process, collections care, or preventative conservation, is arguably the most important. To truly preserve cultural heritage for the future, it is imperative to minimize deterioration by developing and implementing procedures to minimize the amount of physical and chemical stress an object encounters. This includes its environmental conditions (relative humidity, temperature, exposure to light), integrated pest management protocols, use of specialized storage containers, strategies for packing and shipping, exhibition conditions, and an emergency preparedness plan. The initial expense of such measures often causes institutions and private collectors to balk, but in comparison to the expense of the invasive treatments that will be needed if one does not take such preventative measures, the benefit outweighs the initial investment.\n\nPreventative conservation is also something that a private collector can implement for their own pieces. Controlling the amount of light an object is exposed to, the source of illumination, the ambient temperature of its environment, and protecting it from rapid changes in relative humidity goes a long way towards ensuring that an object will be around to pass down to future generations.\n\nWhile each object is unique, conservators begin with a similar process regardless of the artifact being assessed. A Conservator may need to stabilize an object at any stage in the process to prevent further loss, or, in extreme cases, begin by stabilizing an object before further examination can occur. Documentation takes place during every step of treatment, including: original condition, sample sites (if taken), different types of damage, areas of significant weakness before and after stabilization, and potential infestation sites. It is also important to document the objects condition before and after moving it, especially in the case of off-site transport. The ultimate goal of treatment is to preserve both the physical object and its interpretation, or cultural context.\n\nThe first step of any treatment protocol is a thorough examination of the object. This includes both its physical components and its cultural importance. Physical components include the materials used, its construction, and the appearance of the object's surface. The conservator often employs different techniques for this portion of the examination, including photographs taken in different light conditions such as visible, raking, and Ultraviolet to examine the surface, and x-rays to reveal the structure within. Cultural significance is more challenging to determine, including the object's meaning, function, intended use, and importance to society.\n\nThorough examination and research allows the Conservator to reconstruct an object's history and, together with the object's custodian (the owner, a curator, registrar, or collection manager) determine the object's ideal state and determine a realistic treatment goal.\nFollowing examination the Conservator will prepare a pre-treatment report that discusses the treatment goal for the object and the planned course of action. As defined by AIC, treatment is \"The deliberate alteration of the chemical and/or physical aspects of cultural property, aimed primarily at prolonging its existence.\" This can be something as minimal as reinforcing flaking paint, or something as complex as the migration of metals and salts through a wooden statue, leading to loss of strength, shrinkage, separation between the wooden support, metal fastenings, and decorative outer surface.\n\nObjects Conservators must be an expert collaborator, working with members of the public and museum professionals alike. Conservation is not a vacuum and practitioners collaborate with colleagues around the world, lending expertise and receiving guidance. They need to advocate for the object, explain their treatment protocol, the importance of preventative measures, and stand firm when asked to reconsider a \"no\". They must also be open to alternate interpretations, have an understanding of different materials and construction techniques,keen observation skills, and deft hands.\n\nMost museums and prestigious private firms require graduate degrees in Conservation. Without graduate level education, knowledge of chemistry, hands-on experience, and a thorough foundation in documentation, evaluation, and treatment an institution or firm is taking a serious risk. Anyone can call themselves a conservator, but it is the specialized training gained through graduate programs or similar experiences that count.\n\nGaining admission to a conservation graduate program includes an undergraduate degree, a concentration in chemistry (specifically organic chemistry), and a significant number of hours working under a trained Conservator. This ensures that the candidate has a through foundation upon which to build and is already familiar with many aspects of the process.\n\nThese programs include University of Delaware, NYU, Buffalo State University, Queens University, University College London, Cardiff University\n\nDue to the diverse nature of this type of cultural heritage, most objects conservators specialize on one type of artifact or material. The following are a selection of possible specialties:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51085101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51085101", "title": "Old Stock Americans", "text": "Old Stock Americans\n\nOld Stock Americans, Old Pioneer Stock, or Anglo-Americans are people who are descended from the original settlers of the Thirteen Colonies, of mostly British ancestry, who immigrated in the 17th and the 18th centuries. \n\nBetween 1700 and 1775, the overwhelming majority of immigrants to the colonies (around 75%) were British immigrants of varying ethnic backgrounds such as English, Scottish, Scots-Irish and Welsh. Populations of Germans, Dutch and others arrived with other colonial efforts but the majority were British.\n\nUntil the late 20th century, Old Stock Americans dominated American culture and politics. Thousands of Germans and Irish immigrated to the United States during the 19th century and were met with strong opposition from the majority Protestant Old Stock, who were anti-immigration and anti-Catholic. \n\nRegardless of ancestral origin, English-speaking, native-born White Americans, were referred to as Anglos or Native Americans (not to be confused with Indigenous Americans). American settlers arriving in droves to the newly acquired, formerly Spanish, French, and Mexican colonies, whether they were native born or immigrants from the British Isles, were labelled as \"Anglos\", especially if they did not assimilate into the cultures that inhabited the area for centuries.\n"}
{"id": "620396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620396", "title": "Origin of language", "text": "Origin of language\n\nThe evolutionary emergence of language in the human species has been a subject of speculation for several centuries. The topic is difficult to study because of the lack of direct evidence. Consequently, scholars wishing to study the origins of language must draw inferences from other kinds of evidence such as the fossil record, archaeological evidence, contemporary language diversity, studies of language acquisition, and comparisons between human language and systems of communication existing among animals (particularly other primates). Many argue that the origins of language probably relate closely to the origins of modern human behavior, but there is little agreement about the implications and directionality of this connection.\n\nThis shortage of empirical evidence has led many scholars to regard the entire topic as unsuitable for serious study. In 1866, the Linguistic Society of Paris banned any existing or future debates on the subject, a prohibition which remained influential across much of the western world until late in the twentieth century. Today, there are various hypotheses about how, why, when, and where language might have emerged. Despite this, there is scarcely more agreement today than a hundred years ago, when Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection provoked a rash of armchair speculation on the topic. Since the early 1990s, however, a number of linguists, archaeologists, psychologists, anthropologists, and others have attempted to address with new methods what some consider one of the hardest problems in science.\n\nOne can sub-divide approaches to the origin of language according to some underlying assumptions:\n\n\nNoam Chomsky, a prominent proponent of discontinuity theory, argues that a single chance mutation occurred in one individual in the order of 100,000 years ago, installing the language faculty (a component of the mid-brain) in \"perfect\" or \"near-perfect\" form. \nA majority of linguistic scholars hold continuity-based theories, but they vary in how they envision language development. Among those who see language as mostly innate, some—notably Steven Pinker—avoid speculating about specific precursors in nonhuman primates, stressing simply that the language faculty must have evolved in the usual gradual way. Others in this intellectual camp—notably Ib Ulbæk—hold that language evolved not from primate communication but from primate cognition, which is significantly more complex.\n\nThose who see language as a socially learned tool of communication, such as Michael Tomasello, see it developing from the cognitively controlled aspects of primate communication, these being mostly gestural as opposed to vocal. Where vocal precursors are concerned, many continuity theorists envisage language evolving from early human capacities for song.\n\nTranscending the continuity-versus-discontinuity divide, some scholars view the emergence of language as the consequence of some kind of social transformation that, by generating unprecedented levels of public trust, liberated a genetic potential for linguistic creativity that had previously lain dormant. \"Ritual/speech coevolution theory\" exemplifies this approach. Scholars in this intellectual camp point to the fact that even chimpanzees and bonobos have latent symbolic capacities that they rarely—if ever—use in the wild. Objecting to the sudden mutation idea, these authors argue that even if a chance mutation were to install a language organ in an evolving bipedal primate, it would be adaptively useless under all known primate social conditions. A very specific social structure—one capable of upholding unusually high levels of public accountability and trust—must have evolved before or concurrently with language to make reliance on \"cheap signals\" (words) an evolutionarily stable strategy.\n\nBecause the emergence of language lies so far back in human prehistory, the relevant developments have left no direct historical traces; neither can comparable processes be observed today. Despite this, the emergence of new sign languages in modern times—Nicaraguan Sign Language, for example—may potentially offer insights into the developmental stages and creative processes necessarily involved. Another approach inspects early human fossils, looking for traces of physical adaptation to language use. In some cases, when the DNA of extinct humans can be recovered, the presence or absence of genes considered to be language-relevant —FOXP2, for example—may prove informative. Another approach, this time archaeological, involves invoking symbolic behavior (such as repeated ritual activity) that may leave an archaeological trace—such as mining and modifying ochre pigments for body-painting—while developing theoretical arguments to justify inferences from symbolism in general to language in particular.\n\nThe time range for the evolution of language and/or its anatomical prerequisites extends, at least in principle, from the phylogenetic divergence of \"Homo\" (2.3 to 2.4 million years ago) from \"Pan\" (5 to 6 million years ago) to the emergence of full behavioral modernity some 50,000–150,000 years ago. Few dispute that \"Australopithecus\" probably lacked vocal communication significantly more sophisticated than that of great apes in general, but scholarly opinions vary as to the developments since the appearance of \"Homo\" some 2.5 million years ago. Some scholars assume the development of primitive language-like systems (\"proto-language\") as early as \"Homo habilis\", while others place the development of symbolic communication only with \"Homo erectus\" (1.8 million years ago) or with \"Homo heidelbergensis\" (0.6 million years ago) and the development of language proper with \"Homo sapiens,\" currently estimated at less than 200,000 years ago.\n\nUsing statistical methods to estimate the time required to achieve the current spread and diversity in modern languages, Johanna Nichols—a linguist at the University of California, Berkeley—argued in 1998 that vocal languages must have begun diversifying in our species at least 100,000 years ago. A further study by Q. D. Atkinson suggests that successive population bottlenecks occurred as our African ancestors migrated to other areas, leading to a decrease in genetic and phenotypic diversity. Atkinson argues that these bottlenecks also affected culture and language, suggesting that the further away a particular language is from Africa, the fewer phonemes it contains. By way of evidence, Atkinson claims that today's African languages tend to have relatively large numbers of phonemes, whereas languages from areas in Oceania (the last place to which humans migrated), have relatively few. Relying heavily on Atkinson's work, a subsequent study has explored the rate at which phonemes develop naturally, comparing this rate to some of Africa's oldest languages. The results suggest that language first evolved around 50,000–150,000 years ago, which is around the time when modern \"Homo sapiens\" evolved. Estimates of this kind are not universally accepted, but jointly considering genetic, archaeological, palaeontological and much other evidence indicates that language probably emerged somewhere in sub-Saharan Africa during the Middle Stone Age, roughly contemporaneous with the speciation of \"Homo sapiens.\"\n\n In 1861, historical linguist Max Müller published a list of speculative theories concerning the origins of spoken language:\n\n\nMost scholars today consider all such theories not so much wrong—they occasionally offer peripheral insights—as naïve and irrelevant. The problem with these theories is that they are so narrowly mechanistic. They assume that once our ancestors had stumbled upon the appropriate ingenious \"mechanism\" for linking sounds with meanings, language automatically evolved and changed.\n\nFrom the perspective of signalling theory, the main obstacle to the evolution of language-like communication in nature is not a mechanistic one. Rather, it is the fact that symbols—arbitrary associations of sounds or other perceptible forms with corresponding meanings—are unreliable and may well be false. As the saying goes, \"words are cheap\". The problem of reliability was not recognized at all by Darwin, Müller or the other early evolutionary theorists.\n\nAnimal vocal signals are, for the most part, intrinsically reliable. When a cat purrs, the signal constitutes direct evidence of the animal's contented state. We trust the signal, not because the cat is inclined to be honest, but because it just cannot fake that sound. Primate vocal calls may be slightly more manipulable, but they remain reliable for the same reason—because they are hard to fake. Primate social intelligence is \"Machiavellian\"—self-serving and unconstrained by moral scruples. Monkeys and apes often attempt to deceive each other, while at the same time remaining constantly on guard against falling victim to deception themselves. Paradoxically, it is theorized that primates' resistance to deception is what blocks the evolution of their signalling systems along language-like lines. Language is ruled out because the best way to guard against being deceived is to ignore all signals except those that are instantly verifiable. Words automatically fail this test.\n\nWords are easy to fake. Should they turn out to be lies, listeners will adapt by ignoring them in favor of hard-to-fake indices or cues. For language to work, then, listeners must be confident that those with whom they are on speaking terms are generally likely to be honest. A peculiar feature of language is \"displaced reference\", which means reference to topics outside the currently perceptible situation. This property prevents utterances from being corroborated in the immediate \"here\" and \"now\". For this reason, language presupposes relatively high levels of mutual trust in order to become established over time as an evolutionarily stable strategy. This stability is born of a longstanding mutual trust and is what grants language its authority. A theory of the origins of language must therefore explain why humans could begin trusting cheap signals in ways that other animals apparently cannot (see signalling theory).\n\nThe \"mother tongues\" hypothesis was proposed in 2004 as a possible solution to this problem. W. Tecumseh Fitch suggested that the Darwinian principle of 'kin selection'—the convergence of genetic interests between relatives—might be part of the answer. Fitch suggests that languages were originally 'mother tongues'. If language evolved initially for communication between mothers and their own biological offspring, extending later to include adult relatives as well, the interests of speakers and listeners would have tended to coincide. Fitch argues that shared genetic interests would have led to sufficient trust and cooperation for intrinsically unreliable signals—words—to become accepted as trustworthy and so begin evolving for the first time.\n\nCritics of this theory point out that kin selection is not unique to humans. Other primate mothers also share genes with their progeny, as do all other animals, so why is it only humans who speak? Furthermore, it is difficult to believe that early humans restricted linguistic communication to genetic kin: the incest taboo must have forced men and women to interact and communicate with more distant relatives. So even if we accept Fitch's initial premises, the extension of the posited 'mother tongue' networks from close relatives to more distant relatives remains unexplained. Fitch argues, however, that the extended period of physical immaturity of human infants and the postnatal growth of the human brain give the human-infant relationship a different and more extended period of intergenerational dependency than that found in any other species.\n\nIb Ulbæk invokes another standard Darwinian principle—'reciprocal altruism'—to explain the unusually high levels of intentional honesty necessary for language to evolve. 'Reciprocal altruism' can be expressed as the principle that \"if you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours\". In linguistic terms, it would mean that \"if you speak truthfully to me, I'll speak truthfully to you\". Ordinary Darwinian reciprocal altruism, Ulbæk points out, is a relationship established between frequently interacting individuals. For language to prevail across an entire community, however, the necessary reciprocity would have needed to be enforced universally instead of being left to individual choice. Ulbæk concludes that for language to evolve, society as a whole must have been subject to moral regulation.\n\nCritics point out that this theory fails to explain when, how, why or by whom 'obligatory reciprocal altruism' could possibly have been enforced. Various proposals have been offered to remedy this defect. A further criticism is that language doesn't work on the basis of reciprocal altruism anyway. Humans in conversational groups don't withhold information to all except listeners likely to offer valuable information in return. On the contrary, they seem to want to advertise to the world their access to socially relevant information, broadcasting that information without expectation of reciprocity to anyone who will listen.\n\nGossip, according to Robin Dunbar in his book \"Grooming, Gossip and the Evolution of Language\", does for group-living humans what manual grooming does for other primates—it allows individuals to service their relationships and so maintain their alliances on the basis of the principle: \"if you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours\". Dunbar argues that as humans began living in increasingly larger social groups, the task of manually grooming all one's friends and acquaintances became so time-consuming as to be unaffordable. In response to this problem, humans developed 'a cheap and ultra-efficient form of grooming'—\"vocal grooming\". To keep allies happy, one now needs only to 'groom' them with low-cost vocal sounds, servicing multiple allies simultaneously while keeping both hands free for other tasks. Vocal grooming then evolved gradually into vocal language—initially in the form of 'gossip'. Dunbar's hypothesis seems to be supported by the fact that the structure of language shows adaptations to the function of narration in general.\n\nCritics of this theory point out that the very efficiency of 'vocal grooming'—the fact that words are so cheap—would have undermined its capacity to signal commitment of the kind conveyed by time-consuming and costly manual grooming. A further criticism is that the theory does nothing to explain the crucial transition from vocal grooming—the production of pleasing but meaningless sounds—to the cognitive complexities of syntactical speech.\n\nThe ritual/speech coevolution theory was originally proposed by social anthropologist Roy Rappaport before being elaborated by anthropologists such as Chris Knight, Jerome Lewis, Nick Enfield, Camilla Power and Ian Watts. Cognitive scientist and robotics engineer Luc Steels is another prominent supporter of this general approach, as is biological anthropologist/neuroscientist Terrence Deacon.\n\nThese scholars argue that there can be no such thing as a 'theory of the origins of language'. This is because language is not a separate adaptation but an internal aspect of something much wider—namely, human symbolic culture as a whole. Attempts to explain language independently of this wider context have spectacularly failed, say these scientists, because they are addressing a problem with no solution. Can we imagine a historian attempting to explain the emergence of credit cards independently of the wider system of which they are a part? Using a credit card makes sense only if you have a bank account institutionally recognized within a certain kind of advanced capitalist society—one where electronic communications technology and digital computers have already been invented and fraud can be detected and prevented. In much the same way, language would not work outside a specific array of social mechanisms and institutions. For example, it would not work for a nonhuman ape communicating with others in the wild. Not even the cleverest nonhuman ape could make language work under such conditions.\n\nLanguage consists of digital contrasts whose cost is essentially zero. As pure social conventions, signals of this kind cannot evolve in a Darwinian social world — they are a theoretical impossibility. Being intrinsically unreliable, language works only if you can build up a reputation for trustworthiness within a certain kind of society—namely, one where symbolic cultural facts (sometimes called 'institutional facts') can be established and maintained through collective social endorsement. In any hunter-gatherer society, the basic mechanism for establishing trust in symbolic cultural facts is collective \"ritual\". Therefore, the task facing researchers into the origins of language is more multidisciplinary than is usually supposed. It involves addressing the evolutionary emergence of human symbolic culture as a whole, with language an important but subsidiary component.\n\nCritics of the theory include Noam Chomsky, who terms it the 'non-existence' hypothesis—a denial of the very existence of language as an object of study for natural science. Chomsky's own theory is that language emerged in an instant and in perfect form, prompting his critics in turn to retort that only something that does not exist—a theoretical construct or convenient scientific fiction—could possibly emerge in such a miraculous way. The controversy remains unresolved.\n\nWhile it is possible to imitate the making of tools like those made by early Homo under circumstances of demonstration, research on primate tool cultures show that non-verbal cultures are vulnerable to environmental change. In particular, if the environment in which a skill can be used disappears for a longer period of time than an individual ape's or early human's lifespan, the skill will be lost if the culture is imitative and non-verbal. Chimpanzees, macaques and capuchin monkeys are all known to lose tool techniques under such circumstances. Researchers on primate culture vulnerability therefore argue that since early Homo species as far back as Homo habilis retained their tool cultures despite many climate change cycles at the timescales of centuries to millennia each, these species had sufficiently developed language abilities to verbally describe complete procedures, and therefore grammar and not only two-word \"proto-language\".\n\nThe theory that early Homo species had sufficiently developed brains for grammar is also supported by researchers who study brain development in children, noting that grammar is developed while connections across the brain are still significantly lower than adult level. These researchers argue that these lowered system requirements for grammatical language make it plausible that the genus Homo had grammar at connection levels in the brain that were significantly lower than those of Homo sapiens and that more recent steps in the evolution of the human brain were not about language.\n\nStructural linguistics is an approach to the study of language founded by Ferdinand de Saussure and popularised through his posthumously published book \"Course in General Linguistics\" (1916).\n\nAccording to structural anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss, language and meaning—in opposition to \"knowledge, which develops slowly and progressively\"—must have appeared in an instant:\n\nWhatever may have been the moment and the circumstances of its appearance in the ascent of animal life, language can only have arisen all at once. Things cannot have begun to signify gradually. In the wake of a transformation which is not a subject of study for the social sciences, but for biology and psychology, a shift occurred from a stage when nothing had a meaning to another stage when everything had meaning.\n\nLévi-Strauss's hypothesis is a necessary consequence of Saussure's view of language as a formal system of differential elements: if a signifier only acquires meaning through its difference from other signifiers, then a hypothetical \"first signifier\" always already implies another signifier (\"everything else\" or \"the rest of the universe\") from which the first signifier is different. Thus, language, according to structuralism, must have appeared all at once and not gradually since a semi-language is impossible.\n\nAccording to Chomsky's single mutation theory, the emergence of language resembled the formation of a crystal; with digital infinity as the seed crystal in a super-saturated primate brain, on the verge of blossoming into the human mind, by physical law, once evolution added a single small but crucial keystone. Whilst some suggest it follows from this theory that language appeared rather suddenly within the history of human evolution, Chomsky, writing with computational linguist and computer scientist Robert C. Berwick, suggests it is completely compatible with modern biology. They note \"none of the recent accounts of human language evolution seem to have completely grasped the shift from conventional Darwinism to its fully stochastic modern version—specifically, that there are stochastic effects not only due to sampling like directionless drift, but also due to directed stochastic variation in fitness, migration, and heritability—indeed, all the \"forces\" that affect individual or gene frequencies. ... All this can affect evolutionary outcomes—outcomes that as far as we can make out are not brought out in recent books on the evolution of language, yet would arise immediately in the case of any new genetic or individual innovation, precisely the kind of scenario likely to be in play when talking about language's emergence.\"\n\nCiting evolutionary geneticist Svante Pääbo they concur that a substantial difference must have occurred to differentiate \"Homo sapiens\" from Neanderthals to \"prompt the relentless spread of our species who had never crossed open water up and out of Africa and then on across the entire planet in just a few tens of thousands of years. ... What we do not see is any kind of \"gradualism\" in new tool technologies or innovations like fire, shelters, or figurative art.\" Berwick and Chomsky therefore suggest language emerged approximately between 200,000 years ago and 60,000 years ago (between the arrival of the first anatomically modern humans in southern Africa, and the last exodus from Africa, respectively). \"That leaves us with about 130,000 years, or approximately 5,000–6,000 generations of time for evolutionary change. This is not 'overnight in one generation' as some have (incorrectly) inferred—but neither is it on the scale of geological eons. It's time enough—within the ballpark for what Nilsson and Pelger (1994) estimated as the time required for the full evolution of a vertebrate eye from a single cell, even without the invocation of any 'evo-devo' effects.\"\n\nThe gestural theory states that human language developed from gestures that were used for simple communication.\n\nTwo types of evidence support this theory.\n\nResearch has found strong support for the idea that verbal language and sign language depend on similar neural structures. Patients who used sign language, and who suffered from a left-hemisphere lesion, showed the same disorders with their sign language as vocal patients did with their oral language. Other researchers found that the same left-hemisphere brain regions were active during sign language as during the use of vocal or written language.\n\nPrimate gesture is at least partially genetic: different nonhuman apes will perform gestures characteristic of their species, even if they have never seen another ape perform that gesture. For example, gorillas beat their breasts. This shows that gestures are an intrinsic and important part of primate communication, which supports the idea that language evolved from gesture.\n\nFurther evidence suggests that gesture and language are linked. In humans, manually gesturing has an effect on concurrent vocalizations, thus creating certain natural vocal associations of manual efforts. Chimpanzees move their mouths when performing fine motor tasks. These mechanisms may have played an evolutionary role in enabling the development of intentional vocal communication as a supplement to gestural communication. Voice modulation could have been prompted by preexisting manual actions.\n\nThere is also the fact that, from infancy, gestures both supplement and predict speech. This addresses the idea that gestures quickly change in humans from a sole means of communication (from a very young age) to a supplemental and predictive behavior that we use despite being able to communicate verbally. This too serves as a parallel to the idea that gestures developed first and language subsequently built upon it.\n\nTwo possible scenarios have been proposed for the development of language, one of which supports the gestural theory:\nThe first perspective that language evolved from the calls of our ancestors seems logical because both humans and animals make sounds or cries. One evolutionary reason to refute this is that, anatomically, the center that controls calls in monkeys and other animals is located in a completely different part of the brain than in humans. In monkeys, this center is located in the depths of the brain related to emotions. In the human system, it is located in an area unrelated to emotion. Humans can communicate simply to communicate—without emotions. So, anatomically, this scenario does not work. Therefore, we resort to the idea that language was derived from gesture (we communicated by gesture first and sound was attached later).\n\nThe important question for gestural theories is why there was a shift to vocalization. Various explanations have been proposed: \nA comparable hypothesis states that in 'articulate' language, gesture and vocalisation are intrinsically linked, as language evolved from equally intrinsically linked dance and song.\nHumans still use manual and facial gestures when they speak, especially when people meet who have no language in common. There are also, of course, a great number of sign languages still in existence, commonly associated with deaf communities. These sign languages are equal in complexity, sophistication, and expressive power, to any oral language. The cognitive functions are similar and the parts of the brain used are similar. The main difference is that the \"phonemes\" are produced on the outside of the body, articulated with hands, body, and facial expression, rather than inside the body articulated with tongue, teeth, lips, and breathing. (Compare the motor theory of speech perception.)\n\nCritics of gestural theory note that it is difficult to name serious reasons why the initial pitch-based vocal communication (which is present in primates) would be abandoned in favor of the much less effective non-vocal, gestural communication. However, Michael Corballis has pointed out that it is supposed that primate vocal communication (such as alarm calls) cannot be controlled consciously, unlike hand movement, and thus is not credible as precursor to human language; primate vocalization is rather homologous to and continued in involuntary reflexes (connected with basic human emotions) such as screams or laughter (the fact that these can be faked does not disprove the fact that genuine involuntary responses to fear or surprise exist). Also, gesture is not generally less effective, and depending on the situation can even be advantageous, for example in a loud environment or where it is important to be silent, such as on a hunt. Other challenges to the \"gesture-first\" theory have been presented by researchers in psycholinguistics, including David McNeill.\n\nProponents of the motor theory of language evolution have primarily focused on the visual domain and communication through observation of movements. The \"Tool-use sound hypothesis\" suggests that the production and perception of sound also contributed substantially, particularly \"incidental sound of locomotion\" (\"ISOL\") and \"tool-use sound\" (\"TUS\"). Human bipedalism resulted in rhythmic and more predictable \"ISOL\". That may have stimulated the evolution of musical abilities, auditory working memory, and abilities to produce complex vocalizations, and to mimic natural sounds. Since the human brain proficiently extracts information about objects and events from the sounds they produce, \"TUS\", and mimicry of \"TUS\", might have achieved an iconic function. The prevalence of sound symbolism in many extant languages supports this idea. Self-produced TUS activates multimodal brain processing (motor neurons, hearing, proprioception, touch, vision), and \"TUS\" stimulates primate audiovisual mirror neurons, which is likely to stimulate the development of association chains. Tool use and auditory gestures involve motor-processing of the forelimbs, which is associated with the evolution of vertebrate vocal communication. The production, perception, and mimicry of \"TUS\" may have resulted in a limited number of vocalizations or protowords that were associated with tool use. A new way to communicate about tools, especially when out of sight, would have had selective advantage. A gradual change in acoustic properties and/or meaning could have resulted in arbitrariness and an expanded repertoire of words. Humans have been increasingly exposed to \"TUS\" over millions of years, coinciding with the period during which spoken language evolved.\n\nIn humans, functional MRI studies have reported finding areas homologous to the monkey mirror neuron system in the inferior frontal cortex, close to Broca's area, one of the language regions of the brain. This has led to suggestions that human language evolved from a gesture performance/understanding system implemented in mirror neurons. Mirror neurons have been said to have the potential to provide a mechanism for action-understanding, imitation-learning, and the simulation of other people's behavior. This hypothesis is supported by some cytoarchitectonic homologies between monkey premotor area F5 and human Broca's area. Rates of vocabulary expansion link to the ability of children to vocally mirror non-words and so to acquire the new word pronunciations. Such speech repetition occurs automatically, quickly and separately in the brain to speech perception. Moreover, such vocal imitation can occur without comprehension such as in speech shadowing and echolalia. Further evidence for this link comes from a recent study in which the brain activity of two participants was measured using fMRI while they were gesturing words to each other using hand gestures with a game of charades—a modality that some have suggested might represent the evolutionary precursor of human language. Analysis of the data using Granger Causality revealed that the mirror-neuron system of the observer indeed reflects the pattern of activity of in the motor system of the sender, supporting the idea that the motor concept associated with the words is indeed transmitted from one brain to another using the mirror system.\n\nNot all linguists agree with the above arguments, however. In particular, supporters of Noam Chomsky argue against the possibility that the mirror neuron system can play any role in the hierarchical recursive structures essential to syntax.\n\nAccording to Dean Falk's 'putting the baby down' theory, vocal interactions between early hominid mothers and infants sparked a sequence of events that led, eventually, to our ancestors' earliest words. The basic idea is that evolving human mothers, unlike their counterparts in other primates, couldn't move around and forage with their infants clinging onto their backs. Loss of fur in the human case left infants with no means of clinging on. Frequently, therefore, mothers had to put their babies down. As a result, these babies needed to be reassured that they were not being abandoned. Mothers responded by developing 'motherese'—an infant-directed communicative system embracing facial expressions, body language, touching, patting, caressing, laughter, tickling and emotionally expressive contact calls. The argument is that language somehow developed out of all this.\n\nIn \"The Mental and Social Life of Babies\", psychologist Kenneth Kaye noted that no usable adult language could have evolved without interactive communication between very young children and adults. \"No symbolic system could have survived from one generation to the next if it could not have been easily acquired by young children under their normal conditions of social life.\"\n\nThe ‘from where to what’ model is a language evolution model that is derived primarily from the organization of language processing in the brain. According to recent models, language is processed in 2 separate pathways: the auditory ventral stream (red arrows in figure) and auditory dorsal stream (blue arrows in figure). The auditory ventral stream passes from the anterior auditory cortex to the temporal pole and from there to the inferior frontal gyrus (Broca’s area). The role of this pathway is established with sound recognition in both humans and other primates (and is accordingly known as the ‘auditory what pathway’). The auditory dorsal stream passes from the posterior auditory cortex to the inferior parietal lobule and from there to the inferior frontal gyrus. This pathway was traditionally called the Wernicke-Broca pathway. Whereas in non-human primates this pathway is responsible only for sound localization (and is known as the auditory ‘where’ pathway’), in humans it has several additional functions, such as: speech repetition and production, audio-visual integration (Such as during lip-reading), perception and production of intonations, phonological long-term memory (long-term memory storage for the names of words) and phonological working memory (temporary storage of the names of words). Some evidence also indicates a role in discrimination of individuals by their voices. In accordance with the ‘from where to what’ model, each of these functions of the auditory dorsal stream indicates of an intermediate stage in the evolution of language. Supporting the hypothesis that developments of the auditory dorsal stream resulted with the emergence of language is a diffusion imaging study that compared macaque monkeys, chimpanzees and humans and reported of strengthening of the auditory dorsal stream from monkeys to chimpanzees and from chimpanzees to humans, whereas little changes are noted for the auditory ventral stream between the three species. A study that compared the skulls of early members of the species homo (Homo habilis) to their predecessors (Australopithecus) and to contemporary apes reported only of increase in size of the auditory dorsal stream (inferior parietal lobule and inferior frontal gyrus).\n\nThe ‘from where to what’ model argues that the co-localization of sound localization, audio-visual integration and discrimination of voices is evidence that speech originated for the purpose of exchanging contact calls (stage 1 in figure). These calls are used by con-specifics in order to announce to the troop of their presence or location. In this scenario, speech could have began when a mother and offspring accidentally separated in the forest, and the two took turns emitting contact calls until they were re-united. This model is consistent with studies that induced mutations in mice to genes that cause speech dyspraxia in humans (FOXP2, SRPX2) and resulted with infant mice no longer emitting contact calls with their mothers. Like human speech, the detection and emission of contact call in monkeys is also left hemisphere dominant and lesion to the left, but not right, hemisphere interfered with the discrimination of contact calls. Further demonstrating the role of the auditory dorsal stream are studies of marmoset monkeys that sacrificed monkeys after hearing a contact call, emitting a contact call or both. The researchers reported of significant increase in the number of active neurons in the auditory dorsal stream when the monkeys heard and then responded to contact calls. Studies that recorded activity from the inferior frontal gyrus of monkeys also reported of activity immediately prior to emitting a contact call. \n\nContact calls are similar to human speech as they are both vocal and practice turn taking. However, the contact calls of monkeys and apes are mostly rigid in their structure (although Masataka reported of infant macaque monkeys learning to modify the pitch of their contact call to imitate mothers; and Hihara reported of macaque monkeys learning to use contact call to request specific objects). A possible transition from contact call to speech is that due to a mutation in the auditory dorsal stream, early hominans (i.e., Homo habilis) became capable of modifying the contact calls with intonations (stage 2 in figure). This enabled infants to emit two types of contact calls, one that signals the mother the infant is safe but desires her attention and another that signals immediate danger. Such a development would have provided the mother with an advantage as it informs her whether she needs to drop everything she carries and rush to the baby, or she can take her time. As generations passed and vocal control improved, mothers and offspring became capable of communicating with very simple yes-no question answer conversations (stage 3 in figure). In such a scenario, a baby is emitting a low-level distress call to signal desire to eat berries, and the mother responding with a low-level distress call to permit the activity or high-level distress call to prohibit it. This use of intonations in order to emit two types of calls, one for low level of distress and another for high level of distress could explain why humans today use intonations to transform words into questions or commands (for example, converting the word ‘food’ into a question or command with different intonations). Consistent with this model, a study that examined patients with deterioration of the auditory dorsal stream (phonological dementia) reported of impaired ability to discriminate questions from statements using intonations. Similarly, a study that used diffused weighted imaging to identify the auditory ventral and dorsal streams in healthy people reported that interfering with the auditory dorsal stream using TMS resulted with individuals failing to discriminate questions from statements using intonations. \n\nIn a follow up article, based on the roles of the auditory dorsal stream in vocal mimicry, lip-reading and phonological working memory and long-term memory, a few additional intermediate stages in the evolution of language are proposed. In accordance with the model, as generations passed, vocal control increased from just modifying calls with intonations to emitting novel calls (stage 4 in figure). During this time, infants learned these call by imitating their parents’ lip-movements (stage 5 in figure). This hypothesis explains the role of the auditory dorsal stream in many studies of lip-speech integration as occurs in lip-reading. A role for reading lips as a mean for the acquisition of novel calls can also explain the distinctive large human lips, which are not found with other apes. Supporting the model are studies of patients with damage to the auditory dorsal stream that were reported with impaired ability to repeat sentences and nonsense words (conduction aphasia), or impaired ability to name objects (anomia).\n\nLearning calls by offspring imitating the lip-movements of their parents eventually reached a maximum limit of efficiency. At this point, the offspring were able to learn new vocalizations soon after hearing them, and the memory lasted for their entire life (stage 6 in figure). Such a transition could explain the tendency of babies, at their first year, to mimic their parents by imitating their lip-movements and that after the first year this mimicry process ends. New calls, such as foreign phonemes, learned after the first few years are also much more challenging to learn. The development of a memory store for vocalizations in the parietal lobe of the auditory dorsal stream could have provided the neurological infra-structure for rehearsing lists of calls, thus resulting with poly-syllabic words (stage 7 in figure). Eventually the rehearsal of lists of syllables enabled the rehearsal of lists of words, which made the communication with sentences possible. \n\n'Grammaticalisation' is a continuous historical process in which free-standing words develop into grammatical appendages, while these in turn become ever more specialized and grammatical. An initially 'incorrect' usage, in becoming accepted, leads to unforeseen consequences, triggering knock-on effects and extended sequences of change. Paradoxically, grammar evolves because, in the final analysis, humans care less about grammatical niceties than about making themselves understood. If this is how grammar evolves today, according to this school of thought, we can legitimately infer similar principles at work among our distant ancestors, when grammar itself was first being established.\n\nIn order to reconstruct the evolutionary transition from early language to languages with complex grammars, we need to know which hypothetical sequences are plausible and which are not. In order to convey abstract ideas, the first recourse of speakers is to fall back on immediately recognizable concrete imagery, very often deploying metaphors rooted in shared bodily experience. A familiar example is the use of concrete terms such as 'belly' or 'back' to convey abstract meanings such as 'inside' or 'behind'. Equally metaphorical is the strategy of representing temporal patterns on the model of spatial ones. For example, English speakers might say 'It is going to rain,' modeled on 'I am going to London.' This can be abbreviated colloquially to 'It's gonna rain.' Even when in a hurry, we don't say 'I'm gonna London'—the contraction is restricted to the job of specifying tense. From such examples we can see why grammaticalization is consistently unidirectional—from concrete to abstract meaning, not the other way around.\n\nGrammaticalization theorists picture early language as simple, perhaps consisting only of nouns. Even under that extreme theoretical assumption, however, it is difficult to imagine what would realistically have prevented people from using, say, 'spear' as if it were a verb ('Spear that pig!'). People might have used their nouns as verbs or their verbs as nouns as occasion demanded. In short, while a noun-only language might seem theoretically possible, grammaticalization theory indicates that it cannot have remained fixed in that state for any length of time.\n\nCreativity drives grammatical change. This presupposes a certain attitude on the part of listeners. Instead of punishing deviations from accepted usage, listeners must prioritize imaginative mind-reading. Imaginative creativity—emitting a leopard alarm when no leopard was present, for example—is not the kind of behavior which, say, vervet monkeys would appreciate or reward. Creativity and reliability are incompatible demands; for 'Machiavellian' primates as for animals generally, the overriding pressure is to demonstrate reliability. If humans escape these constraints, it is because in our case, listeners are primarily interested in mental states.\n\nTo focus on mental states is to accept fictions—inhabitants of the imagination—as potentially informative and interesting. Take the use of metaphor. A metaphor is, literally, a false statement. Think of Romeo's declaration, 'Juliet is the sun!' Juliet is a woman, not a ball of plasma in the sky, but human listeners are not (or not usually) pedants insistent on point-by-point factual accuracy. They want to know what the speaker has in mind. Grammaticalization is essentially based on metaphor. To outlaw its use would be to stop grammar from evolving and, by the same token, to exclude all possibility of expressing abstract thought.\n\nA criticism of all this is that while grammaticalization theory might explain language change today, it does not satisfactorily address the really difficult challenge—explaining the initial transition from primate-style communication to language as we know it. Rather, the theory assumes that language already exists. As Bernd Heine and Tania Kuteva acknowledge: \"Grammaticalization requires a linguistic system that is used regularly and frequently within a community of speakers and is passed on from one group of speakers to another\". Outside modern humans, such conditions do not prevail.\n\nHuman language is used for self-expression; however, expression displays different stages. The consciousness of self and feelings represents the stage immediately prior to the external, phonetic expression of feelings in the form of sound, i.e., language. Intelligent animals such as dolphins, Eurasian magpies, and chimpanzees live in communities, wherein they assign themselves roles for group survival and show emotions such as sympathy. When such animals view their reflection (mirror test), they recognize themselves and exhibit self-consciousness. Notably, humans evolved in a quite different environment than that of these animals. Human survival became easier with the development of tools, shelter, and fire, thus facilitating further advancement of interaction, self-expression, and tool-making. The increasing brain size allowed advanced provisioning and tools and the technological advances during the Palaeolithic era that built upon the previous evolutionary innovations of bipedalism and hand versatility allowed the development of human language.\n\nAccording to a study investigating the song differences between white-rumped munias and its domesticated counterpart (Bengalese finch), the wild munias use a highly stereotyped song sequence, whereas the domesticated ones sing a highly unconstrained song. In wild finches, song syntax is subject to female preference—sexual selection—and remains relatively fixed. However, in the Bengalese finch, natural selection is replaced by breeding, in this case for colorful plumage, and thus, decoupled from selective pressures, stereotyped song syntax is allowed to drift. It is replaced, supposedly within 1000 generations, by a variable and learned sequence. Wild finches, moreover, are thought incapable of learning song sequences from other finches. In the field of bird vocalization, brains capable of producing only an innate song have very simple neural pathways: the primary forebrain motor center, called the robust nucleus of arcopallium, connects to midbrain vocal outputs, which in turn project to brainstem motor nuclei. By contrast, in brains capable of learning songs, the arcopallium receives input from numerous additional forebrain regions, including those involved in learning and social experience. Control over song generation has become less constrained, more distributed, and more flexible.\n\nOne way to think about human evolution is that we are self-domesticated apes. Just as domestication relaxed selection for stereotypic songs in the finches—mate choice was supplanted by choices made by the aesthetic sensibilities of bird breeders and their customers—so might our cultural domestication have relaxed selection on many of our primate behavioral traits, allowing old pathways to degenerate and reconfigure. Given the highly indeterminate way that mammalian brains develop—they basically construct themselves \"bottom up\", with one set of neuronal interactions setting the stage for the next round of interactions—degraded pathways would tend to seek out and find new opportunities for synaptic hookups. Such inherited de-differentiations of brain pathways might have contributed to the functional complexity that characterizes human language. And, as exemplified by the finches, such de-differentiations can occur in very rapid time-frames.\n\nA distinction can be drawn between speech and language. Language is not necessarily spoken: it might alternatively be written or signed. Speech is among a number of different methods of encoding and transmitting linguistic information, albeit arguably the most natural one.\n\nSome scholars view language as an initially cognitive development, its 'externalisation' to serve communicative purposes occurring later in human evolution. According to one such school of thought, the key feature distinguishing human language is recursion, (in this context, the iterative embedding of phrases within phrases). Other scholars—notably Daniel Everett—deny that recursion is universal, citing certain languages (e.g. Pirahã) which allegedly lack this feature.\n\nThe ability to ask questions is considered by some to distinguish language from non-human systems of communication. Some captive primates (notably bonobos and chimpanzees), having learned to use rudimentary signing to communicate with their human trainers, proved able to respond correctly to complex questions and requests. Yet they failed to ask even the simplest questions themselves. Conversely, human children are able to ask their first questions (using only question intonation) at the babbling period of their development, long before they start using syntactic structures. Although babies from different cultures acquire native languages from their social environment, all languages of the world without exception—tonal, non-tonal, intonational and accented—use similar rising \"question intonation\" for yes–no questions. This fact is a strong evidence of the universality of question intonation. In general, according to some authors, sentence intonation/pitch is pivotal in spoken grammar and is the basic information used by children to learn the grammar of whatever language.\n\nOne of the intriguing abilities that language users have is that of high-level reference (or deixis), the ability to refer to things or states of being that are not in the immediate realm of the speaker. This ability is often related to theory of mind, or an awareness of the other as a being like the self with individual wants and intentions. According to Chomsky, Hauser and Fitch (2002), there are six main aspects of this high-level reference system:\n\n\nSimon Baron-Cohen (1999) argues that theory of mind must have preceded language use, based on evidence of use of the following characteristics as much as 40,000 years ago: intentional communication, repairing failed communication, teaching, intentional persuasion, intentional deception, building shared plans and goals, intentional sharing of focus or topic, and pretending. Moreover, Baron-Cohen argues that many primates show some, but not all, of these abilities. Call and Tomasello's research on chimpanzees supports this, in that individual chimps seem to understand that other chimps have awareness, knowledge, and intention, but do not seem to understand false beliefs. Many primates show some tendencies toward a theory of mind, but not a full one as humans have.\nUltimately, there is some consensus within the field that a theory of mind is necessary for language use. Thus, the development of a full theory of mind in humans was a necessary precursor to full language use.\n\nIn one particular study, rats and pigeons were required to press a button a certain number of times to get food. The animals showed very accurate distinction for numbers less than four, but as the numbers increased, the error rate increased. Matsuzawa (1985) attempted to teach chimpanzees Arabic numerals. The difference between primates and humans in this regard was very large, as it took the chimps thousands of trials to learn 1–9 with each number requiring a similar amount of training time; yet, after learning the meaning of 1, 2 and 3 (and sometimes 4), children easily comprehend the value of greater integers by using a successor function (i.e. 2 is 1 greater than 1, 3 is 1 greater than 2, 4 is 1 greater than 3; once 4 is reached it seems most children have an \"a-ha!\" moment and understand that the value of any integer \"n\" is 1 greater than the previous integer). Put simply, other primates learn the meaning of numbers one by one, similar to their approach to other referential symbols, while children first learn an arbitrary list of symbols (1, 2, 3, 4...) and then later learn their precise meanings. These results can be seen as evidence for the application of the \"open-ended generative property\" of language in human numeral cognition.\n\nHockett (1966) details a list of features regarded as essential to describing human language. In the domain of the lexical-phonological principle, two features of this list are most important:\n\n\nThe sound system of a language is composed of a finite set of simple phonological items. Under the specific phonotactic rules of a given language, these items can be recombined and concatenated, giving rise to morphology and the open-ended lexicon. A key feature of language is that a simple, finite set of phonological items gives rise to an infinite lexical system wherein rules determine the form of each item, and meaning is inextricably linked with form. Phonological syntax, then, is a simple combination of pre-existing phonological units. Related to this is another essential feature of human language: lexical syntax, wherein pre-existing units are combined, giving rise to semantically novel or distinct lexical items.\n\nCertain elements of the lexical-phonological principle are known to exist outside of humans. While all (or nearly all) have been documented in some form in the natural world, very few coexist within the same species. Bird-song, singing nonhuman apes, and the songs of whales all display phonological syntax, combining units of sound into larger structures apparently devoid of enhanced or novel meaning. Certain other primate species do have simple phonological systems with units referring to entities in the world. However, in contrast to human systems, the units in these primates' systems normally occur in isolation, betraying a lack of lexical syntax. There is new evidence to suggest that Campbell's monkeys also display lexical syntax, combining two calls (a predator alarm call with a \"boom\", the combination of which denotes a lessened threat of danger), however it is still unclear whether this is a lexical or a morphological phenomenon.\n\nPidgins are significantly simplified languages with only rudimentary grammar and a restricted vocabulary. In their early stage pidgins mainly consist of nouns, verbs, and adjectives with few or no articles, prepositions, conjunctions or auxiliary verbs. Often the grammar has no fixed word order and the words have no inflection.\n\nIf contact is maintained between the groups speaking the pidgin for long periods of time, the pidgins may become more complex over many generations. If the children of one generation adopt the pidgin as their native language it develops into a creole language, which becomes fixed and acquires a more complex grammar, with fixed phonology, syntax, morphology, and syntactic embedding. The syntax and morphology of such languages may often have local innovations not obviously derived from any of the parent languages.\n\nStudies of creole languages around the world have suggested that they display remarkable similarities in grammar and are developed uniformly from pidgins in a single generation. These similarities are apparent even when creoles do not share any common language origins. In addition, creoles share similarities despite being developed in isolation from each other. Syntactic similarities include subject–verb–object word order. Even when creoles are derived from languages with a different word order they often develop the SVO word order. Creoles tend to have similar usage patterns for definite and indefinite articles, and similar movement rules for phrase structures even when the parent languages do not.\n\nField primatologists can give us useful insights into great ape communication in the wild. An important finding is that nonhuman primates, including the other great apes, produce calls that are graded, as opposed to categorically differentiated, with listeners striving to evaluate subtle gradations in signalers' emotional and bodily states. Nonhuman apes seemingly find it extremely difficult to produce vocalizations in the absence of the corresponding emotional states. In captivity, nonhuman apes have been taught rudimentary forms of sign language or have been persuaded to use lexigrams—symbols that do not graphically resemble the corresponding words—on computer keyboards. Some nonhuman apes, such as Kanzi, have been able to learn and use hundreds of lexigrams.\n\nThe Broca's and Wernicke's areas in the primate brain are responsible for controlling the muscles of the face, tongue, mouth, and larynx, as well as recognizing sounds. Primates are known to make \"vocal calls\", and these calls are generated by circuits in the brainstem and limbic system.\n\nIn the wild, the communication of vervet monkeys has been the most extensively studied. They are known to make up to ten different vocalizations. Many of these are used to warn other members of the group about approaching predators. They include a \"leopard call\", a \"snake call\", and an \"eagle call\". Each call triggers a different defensive strategy in the monkeys who hear the call and scientists were able to elicit predictable responses from the monkeys using loudspeakers and prerecorded sounds. Other vocalizations may be used for identification. If an infant monkey calls, its mother turns toward it, but other vervet mothers turn instead toward that infant's mother to see what she will do.\n\nSimilarly, researchers have demonstrated that chimpanzees (in captivity) use different \"words\" in reference to different foods. They recorded vocalizations that chimps made in reference, for example, to grapes, and then other chimps pointed at pictures of grapes when they heard the recorded sound.\n\nA study published in \"Homo: Journal of Comparative Human Biology\" in 2017 claims that \"A. ramidus\", a hominin dated at approximately 4.5Ma, shows the first evidence of an anatomical shift in the hominin lineage suggestive of increased vocal capability. This study compared the skull of \"A. ramidus\" with twenty nine chimpanzee skulls of different ages and found that in numerous features \"A. ramidus\" clustered with the infant and juvenile measures as opposed to the adult measures. Significantly, such affinity with the shape dimensions of infant and juvenile chimpanzee skull architecture was argued may have resulted in greater vocal capability. This assertion was based on the notion that the chimpanzee vocal tract ratios that prevent speech are a result of growth factors associated with puberty—growth factors absent in \"A. ramidus\" ontogeny. \"A. ramidus\" was also found to have a degree of cervical lordosis more conducive to vocal modulation when compared with chimpanzees as well as cranial base architecture suggestive of increased vocal capability.\n\nWhat was significant in this study was the observation that the changes in skull architecture that correlate with reduced aggression are the same changes necessary for the evolution of early hominin vocal ability. In integrating data on anatomical correlates of primate mating and social systems with studies of skull and vocal tract architecture that facilitate speech production, the authors argue that paleoanthropologists to date have failed to grasp the important relationship between early hominin social evolution and language capacity.\n\nWhile the skull of \"A. ramidus\", according to the authors, lacks the anatomical impediments to speech evident in chimpanzees, it is unclear what the vocal capabilities of this early hominin were. While they suggest \"A. ramidus\"—based on similar vocal tract ratios—may have had vocal capabilities equivalent to a modern human infant or very young child, they concede this is obviously a debatable and speculative hypothesis. However, they do claim that changes in skull architecture through processes of social selection were a necessary prerequisite for language evolution. As they write:\n\nRegarding articulation, there is considerable speculation about the language capabilities of early \"Homo\" (2.5 to 0.8 million years ago). Anatomically, some scholars believe features of bipedalism, which developed in australopithecines around 3.5 million years ago, would have brought changes to the skull, allowing for a more L-shaped vocal tract. The shape of the tract and a larynx positioned relatively low in the neck are necessary prerequisites for many of the sounds humans make, particularly vowels.\nOther scholars believe that, based on the position of the larynx, not even Neanderthals had the anatomy necessary to produce the full range of sounds modern humans make. It was earlier proposed that differences between \"Homo sapiens\" and Neanderthal vocal tracts could be seen in fossils, but the finding that the Neanderthal hyoid bone (see below) was identical to that found in \"Homo sapiens\" has weakened these theories. Still another view considers the lowering of the larynx as irrelevant to the development of speech.\n\nSteven Mithen proposed the term \"Hmmmmm\" for the pre-linguistic system of communication used by archaic \"Homo.\" beginning with \"Homo ergaster\" and reaching the highest sophistication in the Middle Pleistocene with \"Homo heidelbergensis\" and \"Homo neanderthalensis.\" \"Hmmmmm\" is an acronym for \"h\"olistic (non-compositional), \"m\"anipulative (utterances are commands or suggestions, not descriptive statements), \"m\"ulti-\"m\"odal (acoustic as well as gestural and facial), \"m\"usical, and \"m\"imetic.\n\n\"Homo heidelbergensis\" was a close relative (most probably a migratory descendant) of \"Homo ergaster.\" Some researchers believe this species to be the first hominin to make controlled vocalizations, possibly mimicking animal vocalizations, and that as \"Homo heidelbergensis\" developed more sophisticated culture, proceeded from this point and possibly developed an early form of symbolic language.\n\nThe discovery in 1989 of the (Neanderthal) Kebara 2 hyoid bone suggests that Neanderthals may have been anatomically capable of producing sounds similar to modern humans. The hypoglossal nerve, which passes through the hypoglossal canal, controls the movements of the tongue, which may have enabled voicing for size exaggeration (see size exaggeration hypothesis below) or may reflect speech abilities.\n\nHowever, although Neanderthals may have been anatomically able to speak, Richard G. Klein in 2004 doubted that they possessed a fully modern language. He largely bases his doubts on the fossil record of archaic humans and their stone tool kit. For 2 million years following the emergence of \"Homo habilis,\" the stone tool technology of hominins changed very little. Klein, who has worked extensively on ancient stone tools, describes the crude stone tool kit of archaic humans as impossible to break down into categories based on their function, and reports that Neanderthals seem to have had little concern for the final aesthetic form of their tools. Klein argues that the Neanderthal brain may have not reached the level of complexity required for modern speech, even if the physical apparatus for speech production was well-developed. The issue of the Neanderthal's level of cultural and technological sophistication remains a controversial one.\n\nBased on computer simulations used to evaluate that evolution of language that resulted in showing three stages in the evolution of syntax, Neanderthals are thought to have been in stage 2, showing they had something more evolved than proto-language but not quite as complex as the language of modern humans.\n\nAnatomically modern humans begin to appear in the fossil record in Ethiopia some 200,000 years ago.\nAlthough there is still much debate as to whether behavioural modernity emerged in Africa at around the same time, a growing number of archaeologists nowadays invoke the southern African Middle Stone Age use of red ochre pigments—for example at Blombos Cave—as evidence that modern anatomy and behaviour co-evolved. These archaeologists argue strongly that if modern humans at this early stage were using red ochre pigments for ritual and symbolic purposes, they probably had symbolic language as well.\n\nAccording to the recent African origins hypothesis, from around 60,000 – 50,000 years ago a group of humans left Africa and began migrating to occupy the rest of the world, carrying language and symbolic culture with them.\n\nThe larynx or voice box is an organ in the neck housing the vocal folds, which are responsible for phonation. In humans, the larynx is \"descended\". Our species is not unique in this respect: goats, dogs, pigs and tamarins lower the larynx temporarily, to emit loud calls. Several deer species have a permanently lowered larynx, which may be lowered still further by males during their roaring displays. Lions, jaguars, cheetahs and domestic cats also do this. However, laryngeal descent in nonhumans (according to Philip Lieberman) is not accompanied by descent of the hyoid; hence the tongue remains horizontal in the oral cavity, preventing it from acting as a pharyngeal articulator.\n\nDespite all this, scholars remain divided as to how \"special\" the human vocal tract really is. It has been shown that the larynx does descend to some extent during development in chimpanzees, followed by hyoidal descent. As against this, Philip Lieberman points out that only humans have evolved permanent and substantial laryngeal descent in association with hyoidal descent, resulting in a curved tongue and two-tube vocal tract with 1:1 proportions. Uniquely in the human case, simple contact between the epiglottis and velum is no longer possible, disrupting the normal mammalian separation of the respiratory and digestive tracts during swallowing. Since this entails substantial costs—increasing the risk of choking while swallowing food—we are forced to ask what benefits might have outweighed those costs. The obvious benefit—so it is claimed—must have been speech. But this idea has been vigorously contested. One objection is that humans are in fact \"not\" seriously at risk of choking on food: medical statistics indicate that accidents of this kind are extremely rare. Another objection is that in the view of most scholars, speech as we know it emerged relatively late in human evolution, roughly contemporaneously with the emergence of \"Homo sapiens.\" A development as complex as the reconfiguration of the human vocal tract would have required much more time, implying an early date of origin. This discrepancy in timescales undermines the idea that human vocal flexibility was \"initially\" driven by selection pressures for speech, thus not excluding that it was selected for e.g. improved singing ability.\n\nTo lower the larynx is to increase the length of the vocal tract, in turn lowering formant frequencies so that the voice sounds \"deeper\"—giving an impression of greater size. John Ohala argues that the function of the lowered larynx in humans, especially males, is probably to enhance threat displays rather than speech itself. Ohala points out that if the lowered larynx were an adaptation for speech, we would expect adult human males to be better adapted in this respect than adult females, whose larynx is considerably less low. In fact, females invariably outperform males in verbal tests, falsifying this whole line of reasoning. W. Tecumseh Fitch likewise argues that this was the original selective advantage of laryngeal lowering in our species. Although (according to Fitch) the initial lowering of the larynx in humans had nothing to do with speech, the increased range of possible formant patterns was subsequently co-opted for speech. Size exaggeration remains the sole function of the extreme laryngeal descent observed in male deer. Consistent with the size exaggeration hypothesis, a second descent of the larynx occurs at puberty in humans, although only in males. In response to the objection that the larynx is descended in human females, Fitch suggests that mothers vocalising to protect their infants would also have benefited from this ability.\n\nIn 2011, Quentin Atkinson published a survey of phonemes from 500 different languages as well as language families and compared their phonemic diversity by region, number of speakers and distance from Africa. The survey revealed that African languages had the largest number of phonemes, and Oceania and South America had the smallest number. After allowing for the number of speakers, the phonemic diversity was compared to over 2000 possible origin locations. Atkinson's \"best fit\" model is that language originated in central and southern Africa between 80,000 and 160,000 years ago. This predates the hypothesized southern coastal peopling of Arabia, India, southeast Asia, and Australia. It would also mean that the origin of language occurred at the same time as the emergence of symbolic culture.\n\nThe search for the origin of language has a long history rooted in mythology. Most mythologies do not credit humans with the invention of language but speak of a divine language predating human language. Mystical languages used to communicate with animals or spirits, such as the language of the birds, are also common, and were of particular interest during the Renaissance.\n\nVāc is the Hindu goddess of speech, or \"speech personified\". As Brahman's \"sacred utterance\", she has a cosmological role as the \"Mother of the Vedas\". The Aztecs' story maintains that only a man, Coxcox, and a woman, Xochiquetzal, survived a flood, having floated on a piece of bark. They found themselves on land and begat many children who were at first born unable to speak, but subsequently, upon the arrival of a dove, were endowed with language, although each one was given a different speech such that they could not understand one another.\n\nIn the Old Testament, the Book of Genesis (11) says that God prevented the Tower of Babel from being completed through a miracle that made its construction workers start speaking different languages. After this, they migrated to other regions, grouped together according to which of the newly created languages they spoke, explaining the origins of languages and nations outside of the fertile crescent.\n\nHistory contains a number of anecdotes about people who attempted to discover the origin of language by experiment. The first such tale was told by Herodotus (\"Histories\" 2.2). He relates that Pharaoh Psammetichus (probably Psammetichus I, 7th century BC) had two children raised by a shepherd, with the instructions that no one should speak to them, but that the shepherd should feed and care for them while listening to determine their first words. When one of the children cried \"bekos\" with outstretched arms the shepherd concluded that the word was Phrygian, because that was the sound of the Phrygian word for \"bread\". From this, Psammetichus concluded that the first language was Phrygian. King James V of Scotland is said to have tried a similar experiment; his children were supposed to have spoken Hebrew.\n\nBoth the medieval monarch Frederick II and Akbar are said to have tried similar experiments; the children involved in these experiments did not speak. The current situation of deaf people also points into this direction.\n\nModern linguistics does not begin until the late 18th century, and the Romantic or animist theses of Johann Gottfried Herder and Johann Christoph Adelung remained influential well into the 19th century. The question of language origin seemed inaccessible to methodical approaches, and in 1866 the Linguistic Society of Paris famously banned all discussion of the origin of language, deeming it to be an unanswerable problem. An increasingly systematic approach to historical linguistics developed in the course of the 19th century, reaching its culmination in the Neogrammarian school of Karl Brugmann and others.\n\nHowever, scholarly interest in the question of the origin of language has only gradually been rekindled from the 1950s on (and then controversially) with ideas such as universal grammar, mass comparison and glottochronology.\n\nThe \"origin of language\" as a subject in its own right emerged from studies in neurolinguistics, psycholinguistics and human evolution. The \"Linguistic Bibliography\" introduced \"Origin of language\" as a separate heading in 1988, as a sub-topic of psycholinguistics. Dedicated research institutes of evolutionary linguistics are a recent phenomenon, emerging only in the 1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "54695050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54695050", "title": "Pešturina", "text": "Pešturina\n\nPešturina () is a cave in the municipality of Niška Banja in southeast Serbia. It is southwest of Jelašnica and southeast of Niš. Artifacts from the Middle and Upper Paleolithic periods were discovered since the archaeological excavations began in 2006. The remains, identified as the Mousterian culture, were dated from 102,000 BP+ 5,000 to 39,000 BP + 3,000, which makes Pešturina one of the latest surviving Neanderthal habitats. The cave has been nicknamed the \"Serbian Atapuerca\".\n\nComing from the archaic Serbian name for cave, \"peštera\" (cf. Pešter) means the \"great cave\". It is also known as the Jelašnica Cave ().\n\nThe cave is located on the hillock on the northern slopes of the Suva Planina mountain at an altitude of . The entrance is oriented to the west, it is wide and high. The cave itself is long. Stones are accumulated at the entrance, while the parent rock protrudes above the ground in the back part of the cave.\n\nPešturina has been excavated on three occasions. In 2006, the back of the cave was explored, where a trench (or probe) was dug. The search yielded artifacts from later prehistory on top, rock blades and numerous bones in the central, light-brown sediment, while the lowest section, at the depth of , was estimated to be from the Middle Paleolithic. At that level the parent rock was reached so the excavation stopped. In 2008 and 2010-12 the remaining sections were explored. The thickest sediments are near the entrance. The depth reached so far is and the bedrock still hasn't been hit.\n\nStratigraphically, the site has been divided in four layers.\n\nHumus layer, with objects from later prehistory.\n\nMade of light-brown compact sediment. Artifacts from the Upper Paleolithic were discovered: bladelets, unretouched blades, straight backed points and combined tools. They were characteristic for the Gravettian and early Epi-Gravettian periods. The layer is disturbed by the rodent activities but also as the later inhabitants leveled and dug the terrain. As a result, some Middle Paleolithic artifacts can be found but they do not originate in this layer. Fauna remains are very fragmented. Most abundant remains of the carnivorous animals belong to the grey wolf while the prey animals include aurochs, horse and Alpine ibex. Remains were also found of the hares, cave hyena, Mustelidae and red deer. Over 100 artifacts were found. They were mostly made of chalcedony and the beige and brown flint stone and their structure point to the short term habitation.\n\nConsists of brown sediment. Artifacts generally belong to the Denticulate Mousterian culture, from the Middle Paleolithic period. It is quite disturbed in the later periods, with rodent holes. Fauna remains are numerous, mostly corresponding to the one discovered in Layer 4. Most plentiful are those of horses and aurochs while the main predators found is the cave hyena. Other remains include hares, red fox, cave bear, Eurasian lynx, Mustelidae, roe deer and Alpine ibex. The structure of artifacts found in the layer for the most part also corresponds to Layer 4. Apart from chalcedony and the beige and brown flint, the grey-green flint is also used but the most common are tools made of quartz.\n\nReddish and loose in structure, the layer consists of larger crumbs. In the back section large fragments of rock were discovered and the sediment is dark brown. Because of that, the layer is divided into Layer 4-a (reddish) and Layer 4-b (dark brown), which hasn't been fully explored yet. The assemblage is dated to the Middle Paleolithic and as part of the Charentian Mousterian period, with Quina Mousterian elements. There are many fauna remnants and they are well preserved. Predominant are the bones of horse and aurochs with red deer and Alpine ibex to the lesser extent. Bones of rhinoceros and woolly mammoth have also been found. Remains of the cave hyena, fragmentation of the bones, marks of the hyena teeth on the bones and huge amount of coprolites, points to hyenas being on top of the food chain in this period. Other animal remnants include Eurasian beaver, hare, cave bear, leopard, Mustelidae and chamois. Over 100 artifacts were discovered, which mostly made of quartz, while the flint and chalcedony were also found. Though artifacts from all three phases of the flint-knapping were discovered (blades, tools, pressure flaking), the cores were not discovered which means that the tools were most likely made somewhere else and then brought into the cave.\n\nMammals belonged to the different biomes (forest, mountain, steppe), with the steppe animals being more numerous in the upper layers. It suggests that savanna (with the grazing horse and aurochs herds), temperate forest (red deer, roe deer) and rocky cliffs (Alpine ibex, chamois) were all located within walking distance from the cave. Though majority of the remains were brought into the cave by hyenas, remains of large animals like rhinoceros and mammoths, so as the artifacts, show that some remains were human kills.\n\nA major roof collapse near the entrance, or the possible bedrock which separated two caves, is later labeled the Layer 4-c. It still remains unexplored.\n\nAll Paleolithic sites in the Central Balkans, including Pešturina, have the noticeable absence of the Aurignacian layers. That points to the theory that the expansion of the early modern humans into Europe occurred via the Danube corridor, which allowed for the small Neanderthal communities to survive beyond 40,000 BP in some isolated pockets. Based on the dating of the animal remains, and comparing it to the corresponding tools, Pešturina is the first site in the region with the quasi-continuous habitation from 102,000 BP+ 5,000 to 39,000 BP+ 3,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "881540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=881540", "title": "Pinson Mounds", "text": "Pinson Mounds\n\nThe Pinson Mounds comprise a prehistoric Native American complex located in Madison County, Tennessee in the region that is known as the Eastern Woodlands. The complex, which includes 17 mounds, an earthen geometric enclosure, and numerous habitation areas, was most likely built during the Middle Woodland period (c. 1-500 AD). The complex is the largest group of Middle Woodland mounds in the United States. Sauls' Mound, at 72 feet, is the second-highest surviving mound in the United States.\n\nThe Pinson Mounds are now part of Pinson Mounds State Archaeological Park, one of two archaeological parks in Tennessee (the other being Old Stone Fort near Manchester). Pinson Mounds is a National Historic Landmark and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe Pinson Mounds are located on a plateau-like upland above the wetlands that line the banks of the South Fork of the Forked Deer River. The river and its wetlands form the complex's southern boundary. The Pinson Mounds are located amidst three distinctive biotic zones: the oak forests atop the plateau, the cypress forests in the wet bottomlands, and the beech forests on the slopes between the uplands and the bottomlands. The ground is mostly composed of Tertiary period rocks known for producing high-quality clay.\n\nThe mounds complex can be roughly divided into three sections— the Inner section, situated at the center of the complex around Saul's Mound, the Western (or Ozier) section, and the Eastern section, which includes the geometric enclosure. A stream known as Hudson Branch runs perpendicular to the Forked Deer River and divides the Inner section from the Western section. The Eastern and Western sections are both roughly 1,500 meters from the Inner section. (click for map)\n\nThe Pinson Mounds complex is managed by the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation. The Western section is managed by the Tennessee Division of Forestry and includes a nursery and irrigation pond. Pinson Mounds State Archaeological Park is located appx. 2.5 miles east of the town of Pinson and approximately 10 miles southeast of Jackson.\n\nThe Pinson Mounds complex covers approximately and contains at least 30 mounds, 17 of which have been identified as being completely or partially constructed by prehistoric peoples. The mounds range in height from the prominent 72-foot Saul's Mound to barely noticeable rises. Most mounds were probably constructed between 100 and 300 AD, based on radiocarbon dating and the predominance of Woodland-period artifacts found at the site. The following are major features at the Pinson Mounds site:\n\n\n\n\nAfter the Chickasaw ceded much of West Tennessee in 1818, land speculator Joel Pinson arrived in what is now Madison County to survey the area. Pinson \"discovered\" the complex which was named after him in 1820. The complex did not receive much attention until a Jackson-area journalist named J.G. Cisco began writing about it in the late 19th century. Cisco's articles drew the interest of the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nIn 1916 the Smithsonian dispatched the archaeologist William E. Myer to investigate the site. Myer suggested that the entire complex was built according to a master plan, and created a map for the site. In 1947, the Tennessee Division of Forestry purchased the Western section of the Pinson site.\n\nAt the request of the Jackson Archaeological Society and the National Park Service, in December 1961 the University of Tennessee archaeologists Fred Fisher and Charles McNutt carried out the first major excavation of the Pinson Mounds. In the Mound 14 Sector, Fisher and McNutt discovered the remains of a house surrounded by a posthole-lined wall-trench and containing a central hearth and storage pits. Based primarily on the vast amount of pre-Mississippian culture debris found at the site and radiocarbon dating of charcoal, Fisher and McNutt concluded that the Pinson Mounds were probably built during the Middle Woodland period, c. 1-500 AD.\n\nExcavations by Dan Morse and Richard Polhemus in 1963 uncovered what they believed was an oval-shaped house, a large hearth, and various refuse pits. Morse and Polhemus agreed that the mounds were mostly built during the Middle Woodland period. The state purchased the prehistoric property in 1965 from the Williams and Saul families. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places that same year.\n\nIn the 1970s, John Broster of the Tennessee Division of Archaeology carried out extensive investigations of the site's Western section and the Mound 12 Sector. Broster uncovered a human cremation pit and evidence of Early Woodland-period habitation at Mound 12. Broster's team also found a number of \"exotic\" artifacts at the Cochran area. This suggested Pinson Mounds may have been a \"manufacture\" area for grave goods, or a regional trade center.\n\nIn the 1980s, Robert Mainfort discovered six tombs in the Twin Mounds, one of which contained the remains of eight young women wearing headdresses with copper adornments. Another tomb had four older men, one of whom had been buried with two round rattles bearing abstract designs. Mainfort also uncovered a single burial in Mound 31 and evidence of food offerings at the base of the mounds.\n\nExcavations carried out prior to construction of park facilities uncovered a possible habitation area at Mound 11 and a large number of 19th-century artifacts. In the late 1990s, four additional mounds were verified as prehistoric, bringing the total to 17.\n\nThe Middle Woodland natives most likely built the Pinson Mounds primarily for religious ceremonial purposes, although their motives have yet to be established definitively. The Ozier Mound contains no burials and because of its shape, ramped and flat-topped, it was most likely used as a ceremonial platform. It is one of the oldest such mounds in the Eastern Woodlands region. At least three of the mounds— 6, 12, and 31— contain burials or cremations. Excavations have turned up a relatively scant amount of cultural material (e.g., arrowheads and pottery fragments), which points to a lack of permanent habitation at the Pinson Mounds site.\n\nSome evidence suggests that the layout of the Pinson Mounds might be due to astronomical alignment, and expresses the people's cosmology, as is the case at some later mound complexes, such as Cahokia. The corners of Sauls' Mound, for instance, face the four cardinal directions. The Eastern and Western sections of the complex are roughly equidistant (appx. 1,500 meters) from the Inner complex, although the alignment is not exact. Mound 29 in the Eastern section is aligned with Sauls' Mound in the direction of the equinox sunrise, and Mound 28 is \"almost\" aligned with Sauls' in the direction of the Summer solstice sunrise. To date, no mound has been found in the direction of the Winter solstice sunrise.\n\nThe park's museum is built within a \"replica\" of a platform mound. Its exhibits include artifacts obtained from the various excavations at the Pinson site, as well as various other artifacts from around the region. The museum is also home to the West Tennessee Regional Archaeology offices and an archaeological library.\n\nThe park contains approximately 6 miles of walking trails, most of which explore the mounds and associated features. South of Sauls' Mound, a boardwalk looks out over the South Fork of the Forked Deer River and its wetlands. The park is also the site of Archaeofest, an event held every September that celebrates the site's prehistoric builders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "976389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=976389", "title": "Popular culture studies", "text": "Popular culture studies\n\nPopular culture studies is the academic discipline studying popular culture from a critical theory perspective. It is generally considered as a combination of communication studies and cultural studies. The first department to offer Popular Culture bachelor's and master's degrees is the Bowling Green State University Department of Popular Culture which was founded by Ray B. Browne.\n\nFollowing the work of the Frankfurt School, popular culture has come to be taken more seriously as a terrain of academic inquiry and has also helped to change the outlooks of more established disciplines. Conceptual barriers between so-called high and low culture have broken down, accompanying an explosion in scholarly interest in popular culture, which encompasses such diverse media as comic books, television, and the Internet. Reevaluation of mass culture in the 1970s and 1980s has revealed significant problems with the traditional view of mass culture as degraded and elite culture as uplifting. Divisions between high and low culture have been increasingly seen as political distinctions rather than defensible aesthetic or intellectual ones.\n\nMass society formed during the 19th-century industrialization process through the division of labor, the large-scale industrial organization, the concentration of urban populations, the growing centralization of decision making, the development of a complex and international communication system and the growth of mass political movements. The term \"mass society\", therefore, was introduced by anticapitalist, aristocratic ideologists and used against the values and practices of industrialized society. Theories of popular culture are often subjected to bias and originate from a generalist perspective.\n\nAs Alan Swingewood points out in \"The Myth of Mass Culture\", the aristocratic theory of mass society is to be linked to the moral crisis caused by the weakening of traditional centers of authority such as family and religion. The society predicted by José Ortega y Gasset, T. S. Eliot and others would be dominated by philistine masses, without centers or hierarchies of moral or cultural authority. In such a society, art can only survive by cutting its links with the masses, by withdrawing as an asylum for threatened values. Throughout the 20th century, this type of theory has modulated on the opposition between disinterested, pure autonomous art and commercialized mass culture.\n\nDiametrically opposed to the aristocratic view would be the theory of culture industry developed by Frankfurt School critical theorists such as Theodor W. Adorno, Max Horkheimer and Herbert Marcuse. In their view, the masses are precisely dominated by an all-encompassing culture industry obeying only to the logic of consumer capitalism. Antonio Gramsci's concept of hegemony (see: cultural hegemony), that is, the domination of society by a specific group which stays in power by partially taking care of and partially repressing the claims of other groups, does not work here anymore. The principle of hegemony as a goal to achieve for an oppressed social class loses its meaning. The system has taken over; only the state apparatus dominates.\n\nA third view on popular culture, which fits in the liberal-pluralist ideology and is often called \"progressive evolutionism\", is overtly optimistic. It sees capitalist economy as creating opportunities for every individual to participate in a culture which is fully democratized through mass education, expansion of leisure time and cheap records and paperbacks. As Swingewood points out in \"The Myth of Mass Culture\", there is no question of domination here anymore. In this view, popular culture does not threaten high culture, but is an authentic expression of the needs of the people.\n\nAside from precursors such as Umberto Eco and Roland Barthes, popular culture studies as we know them today were developed in the late seventies and the eighties. The first influential works were generally politically left-wing and rejected the \"aristocratic\" view. However, they also criticized the pessimism of the Frankfurt School: contemporary studies on mass culture accept that, apparently, popular culture forms do respond to widespread needs of the public. They also emphasized the capacity of the consumers to resist indoctrination and passive reception. Finally, they avoided any monolithic concept of mass culture. Instead they tried to describe culture as a whole as a complex formation of discourses which correspond to particular interests, and which can be dominated by specific groups, but which also always are dialectically related to their producers and consumers.\n\nAn example of this tendency is Andrew Ross's \"No Respect. Intellectuals and Popular Culture\" (1989). His chapter on the history of jazz, blues and rock does not present a linear narrative opposing the authentic popular music to the commercial record industry, but shows how popular music in the U.S., from the twenties until today, evolved out of complex interactions between popular, avant-garde and commercial circuits, between lower- and middle-class youth, between blacks and whites.\n\nStill the traditional views have a long life. The theory which has been abandoned most massively is the monolithic, pessimistic view on the culture industry of the Frankfurt School. However, it is still hotly debated. The criticism raised can be summarized in three main arguments. First of all, the culture industry theory has completely abandoned the Marxist dialectic conception of society. Every impulse, according to this view, comes from above. Resistance and contradiction are impossible, and the audience is manipulated into passivity. Alan Swingewood and others emphasize that the Frankfurt theory has to be seen in the light of left-wing frustrations about the failure of proletarian revolutions early this century, and the easy submission of the European nations to fascism.\n\nA second reproach is that this view may be as elitist as its aristocratic counterpart. Both establish the lonely, autonomous, avant-garde intellectual as the only light in a zombie society. Thus the former Marxists arrive at an uncritical praise of the elitist and antirevolutionary upper-class culture. This brings us to a third argument, already made in the sixties by Umberto Eco. In a state-dominated mass society, the lonely, lucid, intellectual Übermensch can only retreat in his ivory tower. The historicity of the contemporary situation is not taken into account, so its internal contradictions are ignored, and thus revolution can only be seen as purely utopian. The culture industry theory, therefore, would lead to passivity and thereby becomes an objective ally of the system it pretends to criticize.\n\nIt is of course mainly the influence exercised by the Frankfurt School which matters here: not all of their texts present the same rigid view. In \"Das Schema der Massenkultur\", for instance, Adorno discusses a \"nucleus of individuality\" that the culture industry cannot manipulate, and which forces him to continuously repeat his manipulation.\n\nHowever questioned this view on popular culture may be, it still leaves some traces, for instance, in theories depicting narrative as necessarily ideologically conservative, like Charles Grivel's \"Production de l'intérêt romanesque\". Such theories see dominant ideology as purely a matter of messages, propagated in this case through the forms of narrative fiction. Thus they easily arrive at an exaltation of experimental literature as necessarily revolutionary. However, they may neglect the fact that the ideology is never simply in the message, but in the position of the message in the general social discourse, and in the position of its producers in the social formation.\n\nOther theories easily yielding to monolithic thought stem from the emancipation movements of oppressed groups. Early feminist theory, for instance, often described society as universally and transhistorically dominated by patriarchy in every aspect of life, thereby presenting a pejorative view of the women they claim to defend. As Andrew Ross argues, the same remark goes for the widely accepted account of rock history as a continuous appropriation of black music by a white music industry. Only studies analyzing the cultural oppression of homosexuality seem to take a less deterministic position.\n\nIn liberal-pluralist accounts of popular culture, the theorizing on its supposedly liberating, democratizing function is nowadays most often pushed to the background. This type of criticism, often produced by people who are also active in popular literary writing themselves, often amounts to paraphrase and suffers from an uncritical identification with the study object. One of the main aims of this type of criticism is the establishment of ahistorical canons of and within popular genres in the image of legitimized culture. This approach, however, has been accused of elitism as well.\n\nTo put it simply: the intellectual, in this view, can fully enjoy junk culture because of his or her high culture background, but the average reader can never raise to the learned intellectual discourse of which he or she is the object. An example of this form of appropriation is Thomas Roberts's \"An Aesthetics of Junk Fiction\" (1990). Though Roberts claims to take a distance from studies of canonical fiction, he justifies his (implicit) decision to impose canonical models on popular fiction as follows: \"If people who read Goethe and Alessandro Manzoni and Pushkin with pleasure are also reading detective fiction with pleasure, there is more in the detective story than its critics have recognized, perhaps more than even its writers and readers have recognized\", This illustrates a frequent strategy: the legitimation of popular fiction on the basis of its use of canonized literary fiction, and of the legitimized public's response to it.\n\nIf we consider all the views depicted in the present article as instances of both the thesis and the antithesis of an argument, it is a less known scholar, Blanca de Lizaur who manages to finally produce the synthesis. In the sociological line of Mims and Lerner, she sees Literature as a \"necessary\" social institution -id est: fulfilling an essential social need: That of explaining, justifying and promoting its society's world-view, values, ideas and beliefs, through depicting them \"in action\" in lyrics and narratives from which we all learn. Not only this: The expression of the feelings that may be expected to accompany depicted actions and events, also constitutes a fundamental part of its social role, as we naturally expect Literature to constructively account for, inform, modulate and educate our feelings. Hence why Literature is present in every human culture, all along history.\n\nBecause of its fundamental role and our need for it, Literature will always find its way to, and adapt to the latest technologies and to the furthest reaching distribution channels available. It is also because of this reason that works that successfully represent their audiences' values, ideas and beliefs, and attain commercial success, will at the same time become the subject of unsurmountable pressures -...losing success once power actors manage to substitute their society's message for their own.\n\nDe Lizaur, emerging from the field of Literary Studies, also developed a full literary theory that accounts for popular works' aesthetics, strategies, resources, genres, and meaningful criticism, as opposed to ideologized or prejudiced criticism.\n\nEqually alive is the aristocratic apocalyptic view on mass culture as the destruction of genuine art. As Andrew Ross writes, a history of popular culture is also a history of intellectuals, of cultural experts whose self-assigned task it is to define the borders between the popular and the legitimate. But in contemporary society the dispersed authority is ever more exercised by \"technical\" intellectuals working for specific purposes and not for mankind. And in the academic world, growing attention for popular and marginal cultures threatens the absolute values on which intellectuals have built their autonomy.\n\nIn the sixties, Marshall McLuhan caused wide irritation with his statement that the traditional, book-oriented intellectuals had become irrelevant for the formulation of cultural rules in the electronic age. This is not to say that they lost any real political power, which humanist intellectuals as such hardly ever had. It does mean, however, that they are losing control of their own field, the field of art, of restricted symbolical production (Pierre Bourdieu). While in the 19th century, intellectuals managed to construct art as a proper, closed domain in which only the in-crowd was allowed to judge, they have seen this autonomy become ever more threatened by 20th-century mass society. The main factor here was not the quantitative expansion of consumption culture, nor the intrusion of commerce into the field of art through the appearance of paperbacks and book clubs. After all, protecting art from simplicity and commerce was precisely the task intellectuals set for themselves.\n\nMore important is the disappearance of what has been called the \"grand narratives\" during this century, the questioning of all-encompassing world views offering coherent interpretations of the world and unequivocal guides for action. As Jim Collins argues in Uncommon Cultures, there is no master's voice anymore, but only a decentralized assemblage of conflicting voices and institutions. The growing awareness of the historical and cultural variability of moral categories had to be a problem for an intellectual class which had based its position on the defense of secular but transhistorical values.\n\nThis brings us to a second problem humanist intellectuals face, that is, the fragmentation of the public. 19th-century intellectuals could still tell themselves that they were either writing for their colleagues, or teaching the undifferentiated masses. 20th-century intellectuals face a heterogeneous whole of groups and media producing their own discourses according to their own logic and interests. Thus they cannot control the reception of their own messages anymore, and thereby see their influence on the structuring of culture threatened. Many neo-apocalyptic intellectuals, such as Alain Finkielkraut and George Steiner, emphasize their concern about the growing \"illiteracy\" of the masses. In practice they seem to be mainly concerned with high culture illiteracy, the inability to appreciate difficult art and literary classics.\n\nThe neo-aristocratic defense of so-called transhistorical and universal human values may also often be linked to a conservative political project. A return to universal values implies the delegitimation of any group which does not conform to those values. It is no coincidence, therefore, that attempts in the United States to define a common \"American cultural legacy\" tend to neglect the cultures of ethnic minority groups. Or that the fight against franglais (French \"contaminated\" by American English) in France was mainly fought by intellectuals seeing their traditional position in French society threatened by the import of American cultural products, as Clem Robyns describes.\n\nThe blurring of the boundaries between high and low culture is one of the main complaints made by traditional intellectuals about contemporary mass society. There are a number of sociological studies on literary institutions which are held responsible for this mix. Among the first were commercial book clubs, such as the Book-of-the-Month-Club, appearing from the twenties on. The aggressive reactions they provoked are described by Janice Radway in \"The Scandal of the Middlebrow\". According to Radway, the book clubs were perceived as scandalous because they blurred some basic distinctions of cultural discourse. In a society haunted by the spectre of cultural standardization and leveling towards below, they dared to put \"serious\" fiction on the same level as detective stories, adventure stories, biographies and popular nonfiction. Book clubs were scandalous because they created a space where high and low could meet.\n\nSoon, the term \"middlebrow\" was introduced to qualify this phenomenon and to dismiss it as a threat to the authenticity of both high and popular culture. After the book clubs came the mass-production of the paperback format, and its influence was even more wide-ranging. More about this can be found in Thomas Bonn's book. It shows through what elaborate strategies the respectable hardcover editors had to go in order to hide the fact that, from the sixties on, paperback publishers had taken over the control on the production of serious literature.\n\nThe question whether popular culture or mass culture is inherently conservative, or whether it can be used in a subversive strategy as well, is equally hotly debated. It seems widely accepted that popular culture forms can function at any moment as anti-cultures. \"Bad taste\" products such as pornography and horror fiction, says for instance Andrew Ross, draw their popular appeal precisely from their expressions of disrespect for the imposed lessons of educated taste. They are expressions of social resentment on the part of groups which have been subordinated and excluded by today's \"civilized society\".\n\nThe question whether popular culture can actually resist dominant ideology, or even contribute to social change, is much more difficult to answer. Many critics easily read popular fiction and film as \"attacks against the system\", neglecting both the exact ways in which the so-called revolutionary message is enacted, and the capacities of dominant doctrines to recuperate critical messages. Tania Modleski in \"The Terror of Pleasure\", for instance, presents exploitation horror films as attacks on the basic aspects of bourgeois culture. Thus a loving father cannibalizes his child, and priests turn into servants of the devil. Other scholars claim that, by presenting their perversion as supernatural, or at least pathological, horror films precisely contribute to perpetuating those institutions.\n\nSimilarly, many critics exalt stories which feature a lone hero fighting for his ideals against an inert and amoral system. Thus Jim Collins in \"Uncommon Cultures\" sees crime fiction opposing a smart private detective and an inefficient police force as a critique of state justice. On the other hand, Thomas Roberts demonstrates in \"An Aesthetics of Junk Fiction\", a study of the historical background of the private detective model, how the detective story came into existence in the middle of the 19th century, at the time the institution of state police was developed. This force consisted mainly of lower-class people, but nevertheless disposed of a certain authority over the upper class. The fears among the upper classes for this uncontrolled force were eased by domesticating the police in stories explicitly devoted to them. Their inability to pass on correct judgment was amply demonstrated, and forced them to bow for the individual intellect of the detective, who always belonged to the threatened upper class.\n\nFinally, Umberto Eco's studies on Superman and James Bond as myths of a static good-and-evil world view should be mentioned as very early and lucid examples of a combination of semiotic and political analysis.\n\nStill, there may be ways to wage revolt in an age of mass media. One way could be to introduce small gradual changes in products otherwise conforming to the requirements of a dominant ideology. The problem here, of course, is that isolated messages get drowned in the discourse as a whole, and that they can be used to avoid real changes. Some scholars, however, describe how opposition forces use the logic of the media to subvert them. In \"No Respect\", Andrew Ross mentions the late sixties Yippie movement. Yippies would stage media events, such as the public burning of dollar bills in Wall Street, thereby drawing heavy media coverage. This politics of the spectacle brought the counterculture right into the conservative media and filled their forms with subversive content.\n\nWhether this strategy is effective or not, it points to an important fact: the mass media are not above, but dependent on the public. As Alan Swingewood states in \"The Myth of Mass Culture\", the ideological messages the mass media receive are already mediated by a complex network of institutions and discourses. The media, themselves divided over innumerable specific discourses, transform them again. And finally the public meaningfully relates those messages to individual existences through the mediation of social groups, family networks, etc., which they belong to.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40457958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40457958", "title": "Prentiss, Bolivar County, Mississippi", "text": "Prentiss, Bolivar County, Mississippi\n\nPrentiss (also known as \"Wellington\", \"Indian Point Landing\", and \"Indian Town\") is a ghost town in Bolivar County, Mississippi.\n\nOnce a thriving river port and county seat, Prentiss was destroyed during the American Civil War, and then washed over by the Mississippi River during the 1870s.\n\nOfficial records for Wellington began just after 1800, when a few families settled there on the banks of the Mississippi River. Following the War of 1812, soldiers returning home by boat from New Orleans stopped at Wellington, and some remained as settlers.\n\nWellington was only accessible by boat, and settlers occupied land along the shore and inward no more than a mile. There were no roads east into the dense vegetation and hardwood forest known as \"bottomlands\".\n\nIn 1838, Judge Joseph McGuire—one of the earliest settlers and owner of a plantation next to Wellington—was given a contract to cut a road, and a house was purchased for $500 which became the courthouse. In 1840, a new courthouse and a jail were constructed.\n\nWellington was a lively riverport, and supported gambling houses and saloons.\n\nIn 1851, three acres of land were purchased from McGuire for $1000 with a right-of-way to the river of . In 1852, the county records were moved to Wellington, and it became the county seat.\n\nThe town was laid out in 1856, and renamed \"Prentiss\", after Seargent Smith Prentiss, a Congressman from Mississippi and noted orator.\n\nJust prior to the Civil War, Prentiss had several buildings, a racetrack, a good hotel, and a newspaper, the \"Bolivar Times\". It also had the only ferry crossing of the Mississippi between Vicksburg and Memphis.\n\nNorth of Prentiss, the river followed a sharp curve east into Mississippi along what was then called the \"Beulah Bend\" (now Lake Beulah). During the Civil War, Confederate soldiers would move east by foot from Napoleon, Arkansas, hide in a wooded area near the bend, and then fire on passing Union ships. The bend was so tight that the same cannon could be used on ships as they entered, and then left Beulah Bend.\n\nFollowing one such ambush in 1863, a Union gunship led by William Tecumseh Sherman landed at Prentiss and burned the town to the ground. Just one small building on the outskirts was spared. Efforts to rebuild began immediately.\n\nSeeking to permanently avoid the ambush point at Beulah Bend, Union commander Thomas Oliver Selfridge ordered a channel dug across the peninsula around which Beulah Bend flowed. The soft land and strong river current enabled the \"Napoleon Channel\" to be cut in just a day. The Napoleon Channel improved the Mississippi River for shipping, as it removed from the navigable route. Unfortunately, the diverted river currents caused by the Napoleon Channel caused both Prentiss and Napoleon to be completely submerged within a few years.\n\nAfter decades under water, Prentiss briefly reappeared in 1954 when two hunters spotted chimneys and the side of a brick wall during a period of low water on the Mississippi River. Other silt-covered buildings were soon discovered, prompting thousands of visitors come to see the new town. Soon after, high waters on the Mississippi again submerged the town.\n\n"}
{"id": "845750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=845750", "title": "Rational-legal authority", "text": "Rational-legal authority\n\nRational-legal authority (also known as rational authority, legal authority, rational domination, legal domination, or bureaucratic authority) is a form of leadership in which the authority of an organization or a ruling regime is largely tied to legal rationality, legal legitimacy and bureaucracy. The majority of the modern states of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries are rational-legal authorities, according to those who use this form of classification.\n\nIn sociology, the concept of rational-legal domination comes from Max Weber's tripartite classification of authority (one of several classifications of government used by sociologists); the other two forms being traditional authority and charismatic authority. All of those three domination types represent an example of his ideal type concept. Weber noted that in history those ideal types of domination are always found in combinations.\n\nIn traditional authority, the legitimacy of the authority comes from tradition. Charismatic authority is legitimized by the personality and leadership qualities of the ruling individual. Finally, rational-legal authority derives its powers from the system of bureaucracy and legality.\n\nUnder rational-legal authority, legitimacy is seen as coming from a legal order and the laws that have been enacted in it (see also natural law and legal positivism).\n\nWeber defined legal order as a system where the rules are enacted and obeyed as legitimate because they are in line with other laws on how they can be enacted and how they should be obeyed. Further, they are enforced by a government that monopolizes their enactment and the legitimate use of physical force.\n\nIf society, as a whole, approves the exercise of the power in a certain way, then the power is considered \"legitimate authority\". \n\nMax Weber broke down legitimate authority into three different types of societies: Traditional Authority, Rational-legal Authority, and Charismatic Authority. Each of these authorities have their own unique complex societies that have evolved from simple definitions.\n\n\n\n\nWeber wrote that the modern state based on rational-legal authority emerged from the patrimonial and feudal struggle for power (see traditional authority) uniquely in the Occidental civilization. The prerequisites for the modern Western state are:\n\nWeber argued that some of those attributes have existed in various time or places, but together they existed only in Occidental civilization. The conditions that favoured this were\n\nWeber's belief that rational-legal authority did not exist in Imperial China has been heavily criticized, and does not have many supporters in the early 21st century.\n\nAccording to Max Weber, a modern state exists where a political community has:\n\nAn important attribute of Weber's definition of a modern state was that it is a bureaucracy.\n\nThe vast majority of the modern states from the 20th century onward fall under the rational-legal authority category.\n\nThe majority of modern bureaucratic officials and political leaders represent this type of authority.\n\nOfficials:\n\nPoliticians:\nAdditional, Weber provided ten necessities addressing: \"how individual officials are appointed and work\". The administrative staff are under the supreme authority for legal authority in a bureaucratic administrative style.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38989621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38989621", "title": "Ring of Silvianus", "text": "Ring of Silvianus\n\nThe Vyne Ring or the Ring of Silvianus is a gold ring, dating probably from the 4th century, discovered in a ploughed field near Silchester, in Hampshire, England, in 1785. Originally the property of a British Roman called Silvianus, it was apparently stolen by a person named Senicianus, upon whom Silvianus called down a curse. \n\nAfter its discovery in the 18th century, the ring became the property of the Chute family, whose country house was The Vyne, also in Hampshire, now a National Trust property. The ring went on display there in April 2013.\n\nIn 1929, during excavations of the site of the Roman temple of Nodens at Lydney Park, the archaeologist Sir Mortimer Wheeler discovered details of the curse. As Wheeler consulted with J. R. R. Tolkien on the name of the god invoked in the curse, the ring and curse may have inspired the One Ring in \"The Hobbit\" and \"The Lord of the Rings\".\n\nThe Ring of Silvianus is larger than most rings, being in diameter and weighing , and was perhaps intended to be worn over a glove. The band of the ring has ten facets. It is set with a square bezel engraved with an image of the goddess Venus. To one side are the letters \"VE\" and to the other side \"NVS\", in mirror writing. When used as a signet ring to make a seal, the head and script would be raised, and the letters would appear the right way around. \n\nThe band is inscribed with the words \"SENICIANE VIVAS IIN DE\". This contains two errors as the \"I\" has been doubled, leaving no room for the last letter \"O\". The inscription should have finished \"VIVAS IN DEO\" — a common inscription for Roman Christians, meaning \"live in God\".\n\nThe Ring of Silvianus was discovered in 1785 in the field of a farm near Silchester, a town of Roman origins, and the site of many archaeological discoveries. It is unknown how the ring came to be located at The Vyne, but it is presumed that the farmer who found the ring sold it to the family, who were known to have an interest in history and antiquities. In 1888, the owner of the property, Chaloner Chute, wrote about the ring in a history of the house. \n\nIn the early 19th century a lead plaque of a type known as a \"curse tablet\" or \"defixio\" was discovered at the site of a Roman temple dedicated to the god Nodens at Lydney, Gloucestershire, from The Vyne. The plaque was inscribed with a curse:\n\nThis translates as\n\nIn 1929, the archaeologist Sir Mortimer Wheeler was excavating at the Lydney site and made a connection between the ring bearing the name of Senicianus, and the curse stone bearing the same name. Wheeler called upon Tolkien, as Professor of Anglo-Saxon at Oxford University, to investigate the etymology of the name \"Nodens\" referred to in the curse. \n\nUntil recently the Ring of Silvianus remained in the library at The Vyne and was little known, but was placed on display for the first time in April 2013, in its own exhibition, along with a copy of the inscription on the curse tablet.\n\nIt is hypothesised that Wheeler, in his discussion with Tolkien on the name Nodens on the curse tablet, would also have discussed the ring at The Vyne, with which he was familiar. It is thought that other aspects of the archaeology of the Lydney area, including an Iron Age Roman fort, may have influenced Tolkien's writings. \n\nThe \"One Ring\" plays a central part in \"The Hobbit\" (published 1937) and \"The Lord of the Rings\" (1954). In Tolkien's legendarium, the One Ring was forged by the Dark Lord Sauron in order to enslave the inhabitants of Middle-earth.\n\nThe Tolkien Society have been associated with setting up the \"Ring Room\" at Vyne, which includes the Ring of Silvianus in a rotating display case, a first edition of \"The Hobbit\" and a copy of the curse. There is also a Middle-earth adventure playground in the grounds. Lynn Forest-Hill of the Tolkien Society expressed pleasure at the discovery of a material source for the One Ring described in Tolkien's novels, stating that all sources previously cited have been literary or legendary, such as the Ring of the Nibelungs.\n"}
{"id": "32474281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32474281", "title": "Ripley's Believe It or Not! (2008 TV series)", "text": "Ripley's Believe It or Not! (2008 TV series)\n\nRipley's Believe It or Not! is a 2008 Philippine television informative show broadcast by GMA Network. Hosted by Chris Tiu, it premiered on August 18, 2008 until it ended on September 22, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "8382562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8382562", "title": "Spanish Renaissance architecture", "text": "Spanish Renaissance architecture\n\nRenaissance architecture was that style of architecture which evolved firstly in Florence and then Rome and other parts of Italy as the result of Humanism and a revived interest in Classical architecture. It was part of the general movement known as the Renaissance which spread outwards from Italy and affected many aspects of scholarship and the arts.\n\nIn Spain, the Renaissance began to be grafted to Gothic forms in the last decades of the 15th century.\n\nThe style started to spread mainly by local architects: that is the cause of the creation of a specifically Spanish Renaissance, that brought the influence of South Italian architecture, sometimes from illuminated books and paintings, mixed with Gothic tradition and local idiosyncrasy. The new style is called Plateresque, because of the extremely decorated facades, that brought to the mind the decorative motifs of the intricately detailed work of silversmiths, the “Plateros”. Classical orders and candelabra motifs (\"a candelieri\") combined freely into symmetrical wholes. Examples include the facades of the University of Salamanca and of the Convent of San Marcos in León.\n\nAs decades passed, the Gothic influence disappeared and the research of an orthodox classicism reached high levels. Although Plateresco is a commonly used term to define most of the architectural production of the late XV and first half of XVI, some architects acquired a more sober personal style, like Diego Siloe, and Andrés de Vandelvira in Andalusia, and Alonso de Covarrubias and Rodrigo Gil de Hontañón in Castile.This phase of Spanish Renaissance is called Purism. \nFrom the mid 16th century, under such architects as Pedro Machuca, Juan Bautista de Toledo and Juan de Herrera there was a much closer adherence to the art of ancient Rome, sometimes anticipating Mannerism. An example of this is the palace of Charles V in Granada built by Pedro Machuca. A new style emerged with the work of Juan Bautista de Toledo, and Juan de Herrera in the Escorial: the Herrerian style, extremely sober and naked, reached high levels of perfection in the use of granite ashlar work, and influenced the Spanish architecture of both the peninsula and the colonies for over a century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35942798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35942798", "title": "St James House, Monmouth", "text": "St James House, Monmouth\n\nSt James House is a grade II listed building in Monmouth, Monmouthshire, Wales. It is in the historic St James Square neighbourhood, within the Medieval town walls. While the house currently has an attractive, 18th-century facade, it originated as a burgage tenement. In addition, behind the house, evidence of a kiln has been unearthed, with both Medieval and Post-medieval pottery. In 2010, archaeological excavation in the square revealed the first evidence of Mesolithic human settlement in Monmouth. Recent residents of St James House have included boarding students from Monmouth School.\n\n\"There are some lovely spots in the town centre, none prettier than St James's Square, with its old war memorial in the shadow of a romantic-looking tree.\" This is the description of St James Square \"(pictured)\" in Monmouth, Wales that appeared in \"The Telegraph\" of 25 February 2006. The war memorial mentioned is the Monmouth War Memorial that was installed in the square in 1921 and was the work of sculptor W. Clarke of Llandaff. The \"romantic-looking tree\" is a reference to the Catalpa or Indian Bean Tree that was planted on the square in about 1900.\n\nSt James House \"(pictured)\" is located at the eastern end of Whitecross Street, where it terminates at the roundabout encircling the triangular St James Square. The building is positioned on the north side of the square, across from 33 Whitecross Street \"(pictured)\", the site of archaeological excavation in 2009. St James House lies within the Medieval town walls which were built around 1300. On the 1610 map of Monmouth \"(pictured below)\" by cartographer John Speed, the area which served as the site for St James House is depicted adjacent to the label for the East Gate (Dixton Gate). However, as discussed by author William Meyler Warlow, the square, as well as the road south of it, including the future St James Street and Almshouse Street, were all considered to be part of Whitecross Street during the early 17th century. A white cross, which gave its name to the street, stood in the square \"(see map)\". As is the case with some other houses on the eastern leg of Whitecross Street, St James House has had two addresses: 10 St James Square and 10 Whitecross Street.\n\nSt James House was grade II listed on 27 June 1952. The listed building has an 18th-century facade with a three-storey, five-bay elevation. The exterior is red brick, highlighted by light-colored, raised stone quoins which serve as the cornerstones of the walls, contrasting with the brick. Decorative keystones of similar material are atop all of the windows except one, which is lugged and scrolled. The bays on the ground and first floors are rectangular, while those on the uppermost floor are square. The exception is the tall, centre window on the first floor which is round-headed. The centrally-positioned entrance features a wood portico supported by Doric columns. A fanlight is present above the door. The roof is flared and hipped. The interior has a small amount of 17th-century plasterwork.\n\nSt James House is considered to be a good representation of the burgage tenements that were common during Medieval times \"(link to glossary below)\". Its origins as a burgage are most evident at the rear of the property. The current, 18th-century facade was a later addition. Burgage tenements were rental properties that were often long and narrow plots of land, particularly in towns where frontage property along a street was at a premium. The gable (narrow) end of a house on a burgage plot usually faced the street. The classical style was in vogue during the 18th century, the consequence of which was that many burgage houses received new brick facades. Such was the case with St James House.\n\nImportant archaeological finds have been excavated both at St James House and its neighbourhood. Behind St James House, evidence of a Post-medieval pottery kiln has been unearthed. The kiln at St James House produced Welsh Borderland ceramics of the A7d type. Other Monmouthshire 17th-century kilns which produced this pottery included Abergavenny and Trefaldu at Cwmcarvan. A few sources of A7d pottery have been located outside of Monmouthshire as well, including Herefordshire. In addition, a base sherd of Spanish ware excavated by Socket in 1956 at St James House was found to be Medieval, of the early 15th century.\n\nOn 8 November 2010, the \"BBC News\" reported that during the course of gas main replacement work at St James Square and Wyebridge Street, Mesolithic era artefacts, including flints, were excavated \"(link to photograph of flints below)\". An article by Sion Morgan of the \"Western Mail\" which also ran on 8 Nov 2010 in \"Wales Online\" suggested that similar artefacts were found in St James Street as well. This represented the first discovery of Mesolithic human settlement in Monmouth.\n\nIn 1891, Chippenham House, a grade II listed building at 102 Monnow Street, was home to surgeon Thomas Gilbert Prosser (1856–1932), a native of Monmouth. However, the doctor lived at St James House on Whitecross Street in 1901 and 1911. In Kelly's Directory of Monmouthshire 1901, Part 2, he is listed as both a county and borough magistrate. In Part 3 of the directory, he is listed as a medical officer at the Hospital & Dispensary. Prosser, a member of the Royal College of Surgeons, died on 5 Nov 1932 in Monmouth.\n\nWilliam Humphrey Williams (1880–1948), licensed by the Royal College of Physicians and a member of the Royal College of Surgeons, followed in the footsteps of Prosser, with regard to both profession and residence. He passed his Anatomy and Physiology examinations of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons in July 1903 and, by 1911, he was living at Chippenham House. The following year, on 26 September 1912, he married Nesta Faith Green-Price, daughter of Sir Richard Dansey Green-Price and granddaughter of Sir Richard Green-Price, in Radnorshire. By 1923, Williams was the Medical Officer of Health for Monmouth and the Williams family resided at St James House. The physician was also medical officer for the Rockfield district and public vaccinator for the Monmouth district. In addition, Williams was medical officer for the Borough Fever Hospital. Williams and his wife lived at St James House prior to Williams' death on 2 March 1948 in Monmouth.\n\nLater, St James House served as a junior boarding house for boys ages ten to thirteen at Monmouth School. A J Jones was a housemaster at the St James House location. The Heart Project, a substantial renovation of Monmouth School, was undertaken in early 2011. As part of the first phase of that project, St James House was sold and its boarders were transferred to Chapel House, on the northern segment of Monk Street, in September 2011. The first phase also included redevelopment of The Grange from a prep school to a sixth form boarding house, which also opened in September 2011. The second phase of the school building project has begun.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42606867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42606867", "title": "Students' Ethnographic Association", "text": "Students' Ethnographic Association\n\nStudents' Ethnographic Association (SEA) (Belarusian: Студэ́нцкае этнаграфі́чнае тавары́ства (СЭТ)) is a Belarusian non-governmental youth organisation, founded in August 1998. It is recognised by UNESCO as an expert in the field of intangible cultural heritage. The Council of SEA operates in Miensk, where the headquarters are situated. The Association also has its branches in Horadnia, Viciebsk and Mahiloŭ.\n\nThe organization is focused on preserving and developing the cultural traditions of Belarus, as well as the country's natural and cultural landscape. Its activities include:\n\n\"Hukańnie viasny\" festival is organised annually in Viazynka and is designed to greet the coming spring.\nThe Association organized more than twenty ethnographic expeditions to different regions of Belarus. It has created its own scientific archive and ethnographic collections, composed of some 2,000 hours of audio-visual materials and 50,000 photos.\n\nAn ethnographic expedition to Horki district Mahiloŭ region was organised from 5 to 23 August 2013. During the expedition, a vast collection of audio-visual materials (about 500 songs and its variants) was gathered and local textile and other crafts were analysed. The major part of Horki district was covered by the expedition. In addition, a solid analysis of the border area of Kraśninski district Smalensk region (Russia) was carried out. In Russia the work was conducted in cooperation with the culture department of Kraśninski district.\n\nStudents' Ethnographic Association collaborates with various scientific, research and educational institutions of Belarus, including the Scientific and Educational Centre of the Belarusian State Pedagogical University, Institute of Art, Ethnography and Folklore of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus, Belarusian Institute of Problems of Culture, Belarusian State Museum of Folk Architecture and Rural Lifestyle, cultural institutions in Belarusian regions, as well as youth organisations and folk groups from Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, Russia, Ukraine, Estonia and Sweden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37203140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37203140", "title": "Studia Etymologica Cracoviensia", "text": "Studia Etymologica Cracoviensia\n\nStudia Etymologica Cracoviensia is an annual peer-reviewed academic journal covering historical linguistics on languages of Eurasia. The founder and the editor-in-chief is Marek Stachowski. It was established in 1996 and is published by Cracow University.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in the Central and Eastern European Online Library, the Central European Journal of Social Sciences and Humanities, ProQuest, and EBSCO databases.\n\nThe journal prints artiles only in English, German and French languages. The published contributions are mainly original articles. Some volumes contain a small number of reviews, as well as obituaries for prominent linguists. There is no preset limit for the length of an article.\n\nSome volumes are thematic. Vols. 10 (2005) and 11 (2006) were a two-volume edition dedicated to the 170th anniversary of August Pott's seminal work, \"Etymologische Untersuchungen auf dem Gebiete der indo-germanischen Sprachen\". Vol. 13 (2008) was mostly dedicated to etymology of proper names. Vol. 14 (2009) was \"in memoriam\" of the deceased member of the editorial staff, professor E. Helimski. \n\n"}
{"id": "43853585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43853585", "title": "The Mad Scientist's Guide to World Domination", "text": "The Mad Scientist's Guide to World Domination\n\nThe Mad Scientist's Guide to World Domination is a short story anthology edited by John Joseph Adams, and published by Tor Books on February 19, 2013.\n\nThe collection contains the following stories:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5451605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5451605", "title": "The Simpsons opening sequence", "text": "The Simpsons opening sequence\n\nThe opening sequence of the American animated television series \"The Simpsons\" is among the popularized opening sequences in television and goes along with one of television's most recognizable theme songs. The first episode to use this intro was the series' second episode \"Bart the Genius\".\n\nThe standard opening has had two major revisions. The first was at the start of the second season when the entire sequence was reanimated to improve the quality and certain shots were changed generally to add characters who had been established in the first season. The second was a brand-new opening sequence produced in high-definition for the show's transition to that format beginning with \"Take My Life, Please\" in season 20. The new opening generally followed the sequence of the original opening with improved graphics, even more characters, and new jokes.\n\nThis sequence opens with the show's title in yellow approaching the camera through misty cumulus clouds in a dark blue sky. The shot cuts through the counter in the letter \"P\" to an establishing shot of the town of Springfield.\n\nThe camera zooms in through the town and then through a window of a lavender Springfield Elementary, where Bart is writing lines on the class chalkboard as a punishment. When the school bell rings, Bart leaves in a hurry and skateboards out of the school doors.\n\nThe shot cuts to Homer working at the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant wearing a safety mask while handling a glowing green rod of uranium with tongs. An unknown co-worker in the background eats a sandwich with a pair of tongs. The end-of-shift whistle blows, and Homer immediately takes off his mask and drops the tongs to leave work. As he does so, the uranium rod bounces into the air and falls down the back of his radiation suit.\n\nThe next shot shows Marge and Maggie checking out at a supermarket. Maggie, who is sitting on the conveyor belt, is inadvertently scanned along with the groceries as Marge reads a magazine, \"Mom Monthly\". Maggie is rung up at a price of $847.63 (representing the monthly cost of raising a child at the time) and bagged. As Marge looks around panicked for her child, Maggie pops out of a shopping bag sucking her pacifier, and Marge breaths a sigh of relief, leaving the supermarket.\n\nLisa is shown next at band practice. The opening theme coordinates with this shot, and is orchestrated as if it were played by the school band. Mr. Largo stops the rest of the band to order Lisa out of the rehearsal for her unorthodox saxophone playing. She continues to improvise on her way out of the room to grab her bike.\n\nShots of the family on their way home to 742 Evergreen Terrace are then shown. Homer drives in his car (whose steering wheel's spokes were then shown until 2009 when they were removed), feeling something down the back of his shirt. He retrieves the uranium rod and throws it out the window. As it bounces off the curb near Moe's Tavern, Bart skateboards by, noticing a bank of televisions in a store window he passes showing Krusty the Clown; he then passes a bus stop and steals the \"bus stop\" sign. The five unknown unnamed characters waiting at the stop then chase after a bus that fails to stop for them.\n\nAs soon as Bart crosses the road, a car drives past and Maggie is seen inside at the steering wheel; but when the camera zooms out, her wheel is revealed to be a children's toy and Marge is actually the one driving with Maggie mimicking Marge's movements as Marge and Maggie both honk their horns. Lisa is shown biking down the street with her books tied in the front basket and her saxophone case at the back. As she hits a bump, the books fly upwards but are restrained by the strap.\n\nShe passes a tree and arrives at home. She hops off her bike on the driveway and grabs her books and saxophone, all while the bike continues to roll unaided into the garage. She runs towards the front door as Homer drives up the driveway, parking his car in front of the garage. Bart bounces his skateboard off the roof of the car and then touches down and skates to the front door. As Homer steps out of the car, he screams at the sight of Marge's car coming towards him. The shot cuts to Marge's point of view as Homer runs from the car into the house through a door in the garage. Upon entering their house, they speed from different directions towards the living room couch, segueing into the couch gag. After the gag, the television displays the executive producer credits.\n\nNotably in \"Bart the Genius\", the famous high-pitched scream of Homer's when he runs from Marge's car into the house is cut. The scream is added in the third episode, \"Homer's Odyssey\".\n\nThe TV version of this opening has the caption \"In Stereo Where Available\".\n\nFor the second season, the original opening was reanimated. Most shots were very closely copied (with some shots, such as Homer's first shot) appearing to be traced. The coloring was changed on most shots, and the characters and animation cleaned up.\n\nSome scenes were replaced or modified: In Bart's chalkboard gag, the school is now orange with purple accents instead of lavender. In Homer's first shot at the power plant, Mr. Burns and Smithers study certain plans in the background in place of the unknown co-worker. When the end-of-shift whistle blows, Mr. Burns checks his wristwatch to see if it is working.\n\nWhen Bart skateboards down the sidewalk, the scenery is different, the bank of televisions is changed and shorter, and Bart no longer notices them. Instead, he weaves in between a series of secondary characters who crowd the sidewalk. This segment is notably shorter than the original bus-stop segment.\n\nLisa's bike ride is cut, and instead, upon Marge and Maggie honking their horns, there is a \"whip-pan\" across the town, featuring a significant number of secondary characters, towards the Simpsons' house. Instead of Lisa arriving first, Homer arrives first. Bart then lands his skateboard on top of Homer's car and onto the tarmac towards the front door. Homer steps out and has to dodge Lisa on her bike (saying \"D'oh!\") after he gets out of his car as she cycles up the driveway, following Bart. Finally, the last shot of the family television features a totally different design for the television, which has a more retro look than Season 1's.\n\nA new permanent opening sequence was animated for the show's transition to the High Definition format, premiering with the Season 20 episode \"Take My Life, Please.\" This sequence is similar to the previous one, but features many visual changes that take advantage of the wider format.\n\nThe sequence opens as usual with movement through cumulus clouds, while a 3-eyed crow flies by. The crow is sometimes replaced by characters, like Shary Bobbins flying by using her umbrella, or also the Planet Express Ship from \"Futurama\". The camera then zooms past the nuclear power plant and into the town square where Jimbo and Kearney saw off the head of the statue of Jebediah Springfield (a callback to \"The Telltale Head\") which falls onto the head of Ralph , who is holding an ice cream cone. As it falls on him, he inadvertently tosses the cone into the statue's eye. The camera then weaves through several buildings and structures, featuring a \"billboard gag\" towards Springfield Elementary and zooms through the familiar window where Bart writes lines as punishment on the chalkboard. The bell rings and Bart skateboards out of the school doors, plowing into a pile of leaves raked up by Groundskeeper Willie and exposing Barney underneath as he belches.\n\nHomer is shown leaving the power plant and, as in the previous opening sequences, the green uranium bar falls into his clothing as he leaves. This time, in the background of this scene, Lenny Leonard is standing on a ladder trying to change the \"days without an accident sign\" from 2 to 3 days but then falls off the ladder onto Carl Carlson who is securing the bottom of the ladder. The scene changes to Marge at the supermarket check out. Among the products Marge is buying is Tomacco juice and Mr. Sparkle detergent. Maggie is scanned, and the price doubles from $243.26 to $486.52, before she is put in the shopping cart. When Maggie pops her head out of the paper bag, Marge looks relatively calm and does not panic, unlike in the previous sequences. Maggie shakes her fist at Baby Gerald, who is beside her in another shopping cart. In band practice, Mr. Largo dismisses Lisa, who plays a solo as she leaves and then pokes her head back in the door to finish it. One notable difference from the previous opening sequence is Sherri and Terri, who are texting messages instead of playing their flutes.\n\nHomer is then shown driving home and discards the stuck uranium bar out the window; it lands in Otto Mann's lap and he eats it. Bart skateboards past Otto before weaving through several townspeople: a machete-swinging Sideshow Bob, Helen Lovejoy, Apu and his octuplets, Moe, Comic Book Guy, Disco Stu, the Crazy Cat Lady, the Rich Texan and Chief Wiggum, who shakes his baton at Bart as Bart crosses the road. Hans Moleman pokes his head out from a manhole, which slams down on him when Marge drives over it in her car. Marge is now driving an orange station wagon instead of a red sedan. Maggie is shown in a booster seat in the middle while Grampa sleeps next to her. When Marge and Maggie honk their respective horns, Grampa is startled awake and his dentures fall out.\n\nThe camera then pans across Springfield and then cuts to the driveway scene. Unlike the other two opening sequences, Marge's car now hits Homer and carries him on the hood until it stops short, flinging him ahead to smash a Homer-shaped hole through the door. The Simpsons run into the living room and a couch gag is shown, before the credits are displayed on a new widescreen flat panel television.\n\nSometimes, the flat panel television falls to the floor and breaks, but unlike \"Bart Gets a Z\", the episode will begin then anyway.\n\nIn the 500th episode, the opening sequence was a montage of all previous couch gags.\n\nCreator Matt Groening developed a lengthy opening sequence for the first season of \"The Simpsons\", in order to cut down on the animation necessary for each episode, but devised the two gags as compensation for the repeated material each week. In the first of the original gags, the camera zooms in on Springfield Elementary School, where Bart can be seen writing a message on the chalkboard. This message, which changes from episode to episode, has become known as the \"chalkboard gag\". The other gag is known as a \"couch gag\", in which a twist of events occur when the family meets to sit on their couch and watch television. Groening, who had not paid much attention to television since his own childhood, was unaware that title sequences of such length were uncommon by that time. The episode \"Bart the Genius\" was the first to feature the series' full title sequence. The theme, which plays over the sequence, was composed by Danny Elfman in 1989, after Groening approached him requesting a retro-style theme. The piece, which took two days to create, has been noted by Elfman as the most popular of his career.\n\nThe season two episode \"Bart Gets an \"F\"\" featured a revised opening sequence, which was shortened by fifteen seconds from its original length of roughly 1 minute, 30 seconds. The opening sequence for the first season showed Bart stealing a \"Bus Stop\" sign; whilst the new sequence featured him skateboarding past several characters who had been introduced during the previous season. Starting with this season, there were three versions of the opening: a full roughly 1 minute 15 second long version, a 45 second version and a 25 second version. This gave the show's editors more leeway.\n\n\"Take My Life, Please\" (season 20) was the first episode of \"The Simpsons\" to air in 720p high-definition television, though not the first time \"The Simpsons\" appeared in high-definition, as \"The Simpsons Movie\" was rendered in HD. This episode was the first to feature the new opening sequence. It was the first major permanent change to the show's introduction since the opening added in season two; previous changes have included variations in the duration of the intro, and special one-shot introductions for the \"Treehouse of Horror\" Halloween episodes, as well as a handful of others. This new intro also includes some 3D animation when the camera pans over Springfield. \"The Simpsons\" creator Matt Groening told the \"New York Post\": \"The clouds at the very beginning of the main title were always unsatisfying to me. My original direction to the animators was to make the clouds as realistic as possible, and as we go through the clouds we enter this cartoon universe of \"The Simpsons\". Finally, after a couple of decades, they've gotten closer to what I had in my mind. Not perfect, but better.\"\n\nThe two original variations were further expanded to these variations:\n\nThe billboard gag is a running visual joke added to the opening sequence with the updated 2009 high-definition opening. In the gag, a billboard is seen on the roof of the building across the street from the elementary school as the camera pans through the town. The billboard changes every episode. The first episode with a billboard gag was \"Take My Life, Please\" where the billboard says \"Krusty: Now Doing Funerals\". \n\nThe chalkboard gag is a running visual joke that occurs during the opening credits of many episodes. In this gag, Bart Simpson is writing lines on the chalkboard as a punishment; when the school bell rings, he immediately stops writing and runs out of the classroom. The phrase he writes on the chalkboard changes from episode to episode. Chalkboard messages may involve political humor such as \"The First Amendment does not cover burping\", pop culture references such as \"I can't see dead people\" (\"The Sixth Sense\") and \"I was not the sixth Beatle\", the \"Invader Zim\" pilot with Dib, and meta-references such as \"I am not a 32-year-old woman\" (in reference to Bart's voice actress Nancy Cartwright) and \"Nobody reads these anymore\". When possible, Bart is shown deliberately disobeying the line that he is writing on the chalkboard (e.g. squeaking chalk when asked to write \"I will not squeak chalk\", putting in ditto marks for \"I will not cut corners\", showing dis-coordination with \"coffee is not for kids\", or putting \"I will finish what I sta\" for a single line). In \"The Simpsons Movie\", the gag, \"I will not illegally download this movie\", is a reference to piracy. The animators are able to produce the chalkboard gags quickly and in some cases have changed them to fit current events. For example, the chalkboard gag for \"Homer the Heretic\" (season four, 1992) read, \"I will not defame New Orleans.\" The gag had been written as an apology to the city for a controversial song in the previous week's episode, which called the city a \"home of pirates, drunks and whores\". Another such chalkboard line gave the creators stance on the threats made towards another popular animated sitcom, \"South Park\", by the group Revolution Muslim, following the controversies with the episodes 200 and 201 and the depictions of Muslim prophet Mohammed (South Park- We'd stand beside you if we weren't so scared). Many episodes do not feature a chalkboard gag because they are cut to make more room for story, plot development and advertisements. In \"Four Regrettings and a Funeral\" (season 25, 2013), Bart writes \"We'll really miss you Mrs. K\" only once, in tribute to the recent death of Marcia Wallace, the voice of Edna Krabappel. In the first episode to air after Donald Trump won the United States presidential election in 2016, Bart writes \"Being right sucks\", a reference to the 2000 episode \"Bart to the Future\" where Lisa succeeds Trump as Commander-in-Chief.\n\nDuring the opening sequence, Lisa is seen being ejected from band rehearsal due to her non-conformist saxophone playing. She exits the room playing a saxophone solo, which sometimes changes. Some of the solos have similarities with pieces by Donovan, Frank Zappa, James Brown, and Charlie Parker. \"The Simpsons\" composer Alf Clausen said that the session musicians who perform her solos do not try to play at the second grade level and instead \"think of Lisa as a really good player\". Lisa plays the baritone saxophone, but according to Matt Groening, \"she doesn't always play a baritone sax because the animators don't know what it looks like, so it changes shape and color from show to show.\"\n\nAfter the switch to HD production, Lisa has also occasionally performed her solo on an instrument other than the saxophone. As of Season 20 to 29, she has played a trumpet, violin or fiddle, tuba, baritone horn, clarinet, theremin, and harp. In this last instance, she drags the instrument with her and continues playing once Mr. Largo orders her out of the room. Whenever she plays a different instrument, she takes it with her while riding home on her bike.\n\nThe \"couch gag\" is a running visual joke near the end of the opening credits. The gag generally changes from episode to episode, and usually features the Simpson family's living room couch. A typical gag features the Simpson family running into the living room, only to find some abnormality with the couch, be it a bizarre and unexpected occupant, an odd placement of the couch, such as on the ceiling, or any number of other situations.\n\nIn the syndicated version for the episodes from seasons 1 to 5, the couch gag for the episode is usually replaced with the one from season five's \"Rosebud\" where The Simpsons find an exact double of themselves on the couch (though the syndicated versions of the later episodes retain their original couch gags).\n\nThe couch gag is frequently used to make the show longer or shorter, depending on the length of the episode itself. For example, longer couch gags have been used to fill time in shorter episodes, such as in \"Lisa's First Word\" and \"The Front\" and \"Cape Feare\". An extended couch gag was also seen in the first episode to use the new opening sequence, \"Take My Life, Please\", where the family chases their couch on a tour across the world. Another long couch gag was in the show's 500th episode \"At Long Last Leave,\" showing a montage of previous couch gags.\n\nIn 2006, the British television channel Sky 1 began advertising \"The Simpsons\" using a live-action recreation of the series' opening sequence directed by Chris Palmer. Except for the very first shot in which the logo appears out of the clouds, every piece of the opening is present in this version, with even multiple chalkboard and couch gags filmed. Attached to the end of this sequence is the message \"Come home to \"The Simpsons\" on Sky One.\" The recreation was used instead of the regular opening titles in the season 17 episode \"Homer Simpson, This Is Your Wife\", first broadcast on the Fox network on March 26, 2006. The live-action opening had also become an Internet hit before it was aired in front of \"Homer Simpson, This Is Your Wife\", and it was Groening's decision to use it. Al Jean commented in a press statement that he was \"just amazed there are people who want to be known for looking like the Simpsons.\"\n\nA Christmas-themed version was animated for \"Kill Gil, Volumes I & II\" and later re-aired with \"The Burns and the Bees\". It begins with two lines of instrumental \"O Christmas Tree\" and then the normal theme music begins. This version is similar to the normal version, except for several key differences:\n\n\nIn the end, the couch gag is that the family sits on the couch and the camera then pulls out to reveal that the family was reflected in a Christmas ornament, which rests on a Christmas tree.\n\nAnother Christmas version of the opening titles appeared in \"White Christmas Blues\".\n\nA completely different sequence was created for \"The Simpsons Movie\" and features an orchestrated version of \"The Simpsons Theme\" as adapted by Hans Zimmer. The cumulus clouds are displayed in 16:9 television aspect ratio, with black matte bars at either end of the screen. As \"The Simpsons\" logo appears out of the clouds, Professor Frink flies past in one of his inventions carrying a banner marked \"MOVIE\" and proclaims \"Moo-vie! On the big screen!\" (On the movie's DVD menu he says, \"On the small screen!\" when the menu appears, but then \"On the big screen\" during the actual opening sequence.) Frink bumps one of the matte bars out of view, and the other one recedes as the camera zooms in on the town, with several major landmarks popping up. The scene changes to Mr. Burns, who collapses under the extra weight of the toothpaste on his toothbrush, which is dispensed by Smithers. The camera then zooms past Moe's Tavern into the Kwik-E-Mart where Apu is secretly changing the expiration date on a carton of milk from 2006 to 2008. The camera cuts to Springfield Elementary where Jimbo, Dolph and Kearney are hoisting Martin Prince up a flagpole by his underwear and saluting it as if it were a flag. The camera then zooms through a window of the school where Bart is doing the chalkboard gag which is \"I will not illegally download this movie\", a reference to piracy before quick-fading to Green Day who are hosting a concert at Lake Springfield, playing their rendition of \"The Simpsons Theme\".\n\n\"He Loves to Fly and He D'ohs\" (season 19) was the first new episode to air following the release of \"The Simpsons Movie\", and the episode's opening sequence is a callback to the film. Bart writes \"I will not wait 20 years to make another movie\" on the chalkboard and skateboards through Springfield, which is still recovering from the dome incident. Several movie characters reappear, including president Schwarzenegger, the Multi-Eyed Squirrel, Colin, Russ Cargill, and the Medicine Woman. We also see that the Simpsons' house is still under construction and the silo is strapped to Homer's car. Plopper the pig is also featured for the first time in the series, during the couch gag and Homer refers to him as \"my summer love.\"\n\nA special opening sequence, featuring the cast lip dubbing to Ke$ha's single \"Tik Tok\", was animated for \"To Surveil with Love\" to promote \"Fox Rocks\" week. This is the first canonical episode that does not feature \"The Simpsons Theme\" in any capacity, in the show's history. The sequence starts with Lisa waking up and then grabbing Milhouse's glasses. It then shows Groundskeeper Willie brushing his teeth with whiskey. He then gives it to Mrs Krabappel who drinks some while they walk into school before Mrs Krabappel grabs Willie and drags him into a classroom. In the hallway Sherri, Terri and Martin are having pedicures while Ralph is playing in the lost and found box. Principal Skinner and Superintendent Chalmers walk past. The three bullies stick their heads out a classroom and blow up a phone causing coins to explode out of it. Then it shows the music room. Then the bus where Otto falls over. It then shows Nelson singing before showing inside Moe's bar where a group of people are fighting. Marge comes and drags Homer out of the bar and into her car where they drive home. It then pans over a few characters. Marge and Homer then come in where Lisa, Bart (dressed like a rapper) and Maggie are waiting. They all run into the living room and sit on the couch before a number of characters lift them up. The family then falls asleep.\n\nAn homage to the AMC drama \"Breaking Bad\" is used as an opening sequence for \"What Animated Women Want\", set to the tune of \"Crystal Blue Persuasion\" by Tommy James and the Shondells. The song is also used during a montage in the \"Breaking Bad\" episode \"Gliding Over All\", in reference to the blue-colored methamphetamine produced by the show's central character Walter White.\n\nThe sequence opens with a parody of the \"Breaking Bad\" title card, with \"The Simpsons\" displayed across the screen with the symbols for Thorium (Th) and Silicon (Si) appearing at the beginning of each word. Marge, aping the downtrodden demeanor of Walter's wife Skyler, sits on the couch drinking coffee. She goes into the kitchen to begin baking cupcakes, using food coloring to turn the batter blue and adding frosting and sprinkles in other shades of this color. She places one batch in a silver briefcase, which she gives to Bart before he leaves the house. Homer, dressed in the dark hat and sunglasses Walter dons for his \"Heisenberg\" persona, sneaks a taste of the batter while Marge is baking and is later woken from a nap by the smell. The scene cuts to a church bake sale, where Marge sells a cupcake to Milhouse as Homer watches from a distance. Back at the Simpson house, Marge runs her earnings through a currency-counting machine, bundles the money, and adds it to a large pile on the dining table. The camera zooms out to reveal a live-action scene (taken from the episode \"Hazard Pay\") of Walter White and his partner Jesse Pinkman sitting on a couch drinking beer and watching the sequence on a TV.\n\nThe crossover episode \"Simpsorama\" (season 26, episode 6) begins with a parody of the \"Futurama\" title sequence, which includes the \"Futurama\" theme music and a text reading \"A show out of ideas teams up with a show out of episodes.\" It ends with a couch gag with the Simpsons sitting on the couch, only to find out the couch is actually Hedonismbot.\n\nUsed as an opening sequence for \"Dad Behavior\". The sequence opens as usual, until Bart skateboards out of the school and lands on the pile of leaves. He wakes up Barney in process, who then grabs his skateboard and breaks it in half, forcing him to walk home.\nAt work, when Homer drops the tongs, the glowing rod bounces into his mouth and he swallows it, before collapsing. At school, when Largo dismisses Lisa, she hits the door with her saxophone and collapses; the saxophone then falls on her. Next, when Maggie is seen at the steering wheel, when the camera zooms out, it reveals that she is actually driving the car while Marge is sleeping in the backseat. She then wakes up, just when the car drives off a cliff and through a barn. In the process, a chicken gets in the car, and is sitting next to Maggie, clucking, before she sticks her pacifier into its mouth, before driving them all into the lake, where the car sinks. Marge and the chicken then surface, but Maggie does not. Finally, the couch is shown, and Bart walks into the room, alone, carrying his broken skateboard. After calling around for his family, but getting no notice, he takes their pictures and puts them on the couch as he sits there, remarking that \"Finally, I get the remote.\" \n\nBritish graffiti artist and political activist Banksy is credited with creating the opening titles and couch gag for the season 22 episode \"MoneyBart\", in what amounted to the first time that an artist has been invited to storyboard the show. Jean first took note of Banksy after seeing his 2010 film \"Exit Through the Gift Shop\". According to Jean, \"The concept in my mind was, 'What if this graffiti artist came in and tagged our main titles?'\" \"Simpsons\" casting director Bonnie Pietila was able to contact the artist through the film's producers, and asked if he would be interested in writing a main title for the show. Jean said Banksy \"sent back boards for pretty much what you saw.\" Series creator Matt Groening gave the idea his blessing, and helped try to make the sequence as close to Banksy's original storyboards as possible.\n\nApproximately the first half minute of the opening sequence remains the same, with a few oddities: the word \"BANKSY\" is sprayed onto a number of walls and other public spaces. The chalkboard gag (\"I must not write all over the walls\") is written all over the classroom walls, clock, door, and floor. After the Simpsons arrive at home, the camera cuts to a shot of them on the couch, then zooms out to show this as a picture hanging on the wall of a fictional overseas Asian animation and merchandise sweatshop. The animation color quickly becomes drab and gray, and the music turns dramatic à la \"Schindler's List\". A large group of tired and sickly artists draw animation cels for \"The Simpsons\" among piles of human bones and toxic waste, and a female artist hands a barefoot child employee an animation cel, which he washes in a vat of biohazardous fluid. Small kittens are thrown into a woodchipper-type machine to provide the filling for Bart Simpson plush dolls. The toys are then placed into a cart pulled by a sad panda which is driven by a man with a whip. A man shipping boxes with \"The Simpsons\" logo on the side uses the tongue from a decapitated dolphin head to fasten shut the packages. Another employee uses the horn of a sickly unicorn to smash the holes in the center of \"The Simpsons\" DVDs. It is then revealed that the sweatshop is contained within a grim version of the 20th Century Fox logo, surrounded by barbed wire, searchlights, and a watchtower.\n\n\"The Simpsons\" is storyboarded at Film Roman, a company based in California. The storyboards, voice tracks and coloring instructions are then sent to AKOM, a company in Seoul, South Korea. According to Nelson Shin, the founder of AKOM, they received the storyboard for the sequence in August 2010. Believing the sequence to be \"excessive and offending\" he pushed for some of the darker jokes to be removed. He was successful, though \"not nearly as much as he had pushed for.\" For example, in the storyboards, the workers were wearing conical Asian hats, but these were removed. Fox's standards and practices department also demanded a handful of changes, but, according to Jean, \"95 percent of it is just the way [Banksy] wanted.\" Banksy told \"The Guardian\" that his opening sequence was influenced by \"The Simpsons\" long-running use of animation studios in Seoul, South Korea. The newspaper also reported that the creation of the sequence \"is said to have been one of the most closely guarded secrets in US television – comparable to the concealment of Banksy's own identity.\" Although conceding to the fact that \"The Simpsons\" is largely animated in South Korea, Jean went on to state that the scenes shown in titles are \"very fanciful, far-fetched. None of the things he depicts are true. That statement should be self-evident, but I will emphatically state it.\"\n\nAfter the positive response to the opening sequence by Banksy, creator Matt Groening and Jean came to Canadian animator and creator of \"The Ren & Stimpy Show\", John Kricfalusi and asked him if he could do something similar for the episode \"Bart Stops to Smell the Roosevelts\". Originally, they only wanted him to do the storyboards and then let their regular crew animate it, but Kricfalusi insisted on doing the animation himself, explaining that \"If we had done it that way, no one would even have known that I had anything to do with it because it would have ended up on model and all pose to pose\". On \"The Simpsons\", the animators draws key poses and then let tweeners interpolate between those poses. The interpolation however, is a straight A-to-B animation. That way the animation ends up having the characters just going from pose to pose. Kricfalusi explains that \"On \"the Simpsons\" I wanted to try moving the characters in crazy fun ways, not just looking funny each time they come to a stop\", and further elaborated \"that the way things happened was even more important than what was happening in my work. You can’t write visual performance. You have to actually draw it.\"\n\nHe showed Groening and showrunner Al Jean his Adult Swim shorts and Groening responded by giving him a free hand to do the 35-second-long segment. Groening told him to break all \"The Simpsons\" rules, but Kricfalusi explains that he \"tried not to break any rules in the characters’ personalities, just in the execution of the visuals. I didn’t follow any models—not even my own\". The more rules he broke, the more pleased Groening and Jean were with the result. Contrary to Banksy, who lives a life in secrecy, Kricfalusi was involved in every detail and even oversaw the dubbing of the final soundtrack. While Kricfalusi animated the 2D parts, he had John Kedzie to help him with the computer graphics and Sarah Harkey and Tommy Tanner to do the assistant animation.\n\nThe couch gag for the episode was critically acclaimed by television critics. Amid Amidi of \"Cartoon Brew\" calls the opening revolutionary and explains that \"in 35 short and sweet seconds, he liberates the animation of \"The Simpsons\" from years of graphic banality.\" He continued: \"The visual look of the show, which has been so carefully controlled by its producers, becomes a giddy and unrestrained playground for graphic play, and the balance of creative authority is shifted from the writers’ room to the animators in one fell swoop.\" When comparing the segment to Banksy's, Amidi concluded that it is \"in fact, far more subversive because he focuses almost exclusively on making a pictorial statement, relegating the show's dominant literary elements to the back seat.\" Similarly, Television Blend's Katey Rich wrote that she appreciates \"\"The Simpsons\" always being willing to push the envelope in different ways\", but admitted that \"it's gonna take [her] some time to get the gangly-legged Marge Simpson and the leering Homer Simpson out of [her] brain.\"\n\nBill Plympton has written and animated six couch gags, one for \"Beware My Cheating Bart\" where Homer falls in love with the couch...until he meets Marge, one for \"Black Eyed, Please\" in which Homer, Marge, Bart, and Lisa are in a 1930s gangster story, armed with several weapons which are revealed to be gifts once Maggie turns the light on. The sixth comes from \"3 Scenes Plus a Tag from a Marriage\" which is a new version of his 1987 film \"Your Face\" with Homers face as a replacement.\n\nThe couch gag for the episode, \"The Fabulous Faker Boy\", which aired on May 12, 2013, was stop-motion animated by Seth Green's Stoopid Buddy Stoodios, which also works on the television series \"Robot Chicken\".\n\nGuillermo del Toro directed the 3-minute opening sequence for \"Treehouse of Horror XXIV\", which contained numerous references to horror and science fiction, including his own films.\n\nThe couch gag for the episode \"Clown in the Dumps\" which aired on September 28, 2014, was animated by the Academy Award-nominated surrealist animator Don Hertzfeldt, who was recommended to the show by Mike B. Anderson. It depicts Homer using a time-traveling remote control to regress to his original 1987 character model from The Tracey Ullman Show then accidentally going into a distant future incarnation of the show called \"The Sampsans\" where he and his family have evolved into grotesque, mindless, catchphrase-spouting mutants, which also say to 'buy their merchandise'. Homer (now named 'Homar') sees a window, triggering memories of when the show was more pure and genuine, and where in one of the three flashbacks, Marge says 'Still love you Homar'. Homer feels sad when he returns to the bastardized world he lives in. Al Jean deemed it \"crazier than we thought\" and \"the most insane one we've ever done\".\n\nThe couch gag for the episode, \"Mathlete's Feat\", which aired on May 17, 2015, features Rick and Morty from the Cartoon Network Adult Swim series \"Rick and Morty\".\n\nThe couch gag for the episode \"Teenage Mutant Milk-Caused Hurdles\" which aired on January 10, 2016, features guest animator Steve Cutts LA-Z Rider with over 14 million views on YouTube. Fox had anticipated low viewing figures due to the NFL overrun pushing the start of primetime to 8:20 p.m. Despite this, the episode was the highest viewed of season 27 with 8.3 Million views.\n\nThe opening sequence has been parodied within six episodes of \"The Simpsons\":\n\nThe opening sequence has multiple times been picked as one of the best title sequences of all time on TV. In a 2010 issue of \"TV Guide\", \"The Simpsons\" opening title sequence ranked #1 on a list of TV's top 10 credits sequences, as selected by readers. In 2017, James Charisma of \"\"Paste\"\" ranked the opening sequence #1 on a list of \"The 75 Best TV Title Sequences of All Time\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32772960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32772960", "title": "Théâtre de l'Œuvre", "text": "Théâtre de l'Œuvre\n\nThe Théâtre de l'Œuvre is a Paris theatre, located atop cité Monthiers, at 55 rue de Clichy in the 9° arrondissement in Paris, France. It is best known as the theatre where Alfred Jarry’s nihilistic farce \"Ubu Roi\" premiered in 1896.\n\nFounded in Paris in 1893, the Théâtre de l'Œuvre was among the first theatrical venues in France to provide a home for the artists of the Symbolist Movement at the end of the nineteenth century. Modeled on the experimental structure of the Théâtre Libre, the venue was directed by Lugné-Poe, a prominent Parisian actor and stage manager from its opening through 1929.\n\nLugné-Poe had embraced symbolism's \"subjectivity, spirituality, and mysterious internal and external forces\" as a source of profound truth after working as an actor at the Théâtre d'Art. The first of the independent Symbolist theatre, the poet Paul Fort, then just seventeen years old, formed the company to explore the performance potential of found texts such as \"The Iliad\", \"The Bible\", and his own lyric verse. When Fort left the group in 1892, his work was carried on by what would become the Théâtre de l'Œuvre with Lugné-Poe at the helm.\n\nUnlike Fort's project which catered to the intellectual elite, Lugné-Poe sought to create a \"theatre for the people,\" and customarily offered free tickets to most of the public, reserving only 100 seats for his subscription holders. Under his direction, the company first performed Maurice Maeterlinck's \"Pelléas et Mélisande\" on May 17, 1892. According to theatre historian Oscar Brockett:\n\nWith the help of poet and critic Camille Mauclair and the painter Édouard Vuillard (with whom Lugné-Poe was sharing an apartment), the director dedicated the theatre to presenting the work of the young French Symbolist playwrights in addition to introducing new foreign dramas. The group established themselves that same year, renting a small room atop the cité Monthiers called the \"salle Berlioz\" and calling themselves \"Maison de l'Œuvre\", or literally, the \"House of Works.\" \n\nIn addition to those of Maeterlinck, the theatre also produced Sanskrit dramas in addition to works by foreign authors such as Oscar Wilde, Gerhart Hauptmann, August Strindberg, and Gabriele D’Annunzio, alongside works by young French dramatists like Henry Bataille, Henri de Régnier et Alfred Jarry. Lugné-Poe was also instrumental in introducing Henrik Ibsen’s plays to French audiences.\n\nJust as in the description of the theatre's initial performance, the majority Lugné-Poe's stage settings were simple, non-realistic representations of line and color on canvas backdrops. He sought to create a theatre of poetry and dreams while staying true to his motto, \"The word creates the decor.\" The staging was atmospheric and the acting stylized; costumes were usually simple and “timeless.” Some designers included Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Maurice Denis, Odilon Redon, Pierre Bonnard, and Vuillard himself.\n\nOn December 10, 1896, Théâtre de l'Œuvre presented Alfred Jarry's legendary \"Ubu Roi\", with actor Firmin Gémier in the title role. Jarry had finished this epochal play about human greed, cowardice, and stupidity just six months before it would shock the audiences with its unapologetic opening line, \"Merdre.\" Though Jarry affected an attitude of political indifference, his revolutionary ideas challenged assumptions about society, propriety, and existence. Brockett notes that \"\"Ubu Roi\" shows in all its grotesqueness a world without human decency.\" In this lithograph announcement by Jarry for the performance of Ubu Roi, King Ubu appears as a shadow puppet with a segmented arm. He brandishes a scimitar in one hand and clutches a sack of gold in the other.\nBy 1899 the Théâtre de l’Oeuvre had presented 51 programs and toured England, Norway, the Netherlands, Denmark, and Belgium. In spite of this success, Lugné-Poe had come to feel that the work of the Symbolists was juvenile and limiting to his artistic development. He closed the theatre in 1899, marking an end to the first major phase of the anti-realism movement in the theatre.\n\nLugné-Poe revived the theatre December 22, 1912 with a production of Paul Claudel's \"L'Annonce faite à Marie.\" Following that were several works by the Dadaist and Surrealist writers of the era. The group was off to a running start, but activity was interrupted again with the beginning of World War I in 1914. They reopened again in 1919 with the help of financing from the actor Marcelle Frappa and ran the theatre continuously until his final retirement in 1929. Through their productions, tours, and critical reviews the Théâtre de l’Oeuvre, under the direction of Lugné-Poe, had managed to influence \"almost every departure from realism between 1893 and 1915.\"\n\nLucien Beer and Paulette Pax succeeded Lugné-Poe in 1929 and served as the theatre's directors until the beginning of World War II. Shortly after the conflict began, Hitler conquered France and the Vichy Regime under Jacques Hébertot made most theatres illegal in the occupied zone. After the Liberation of Paris in 1944, Raymond Rouleau rejoined Lucien Beer, and together they ran the theatre until 1951, when they were both replaced by Robert de Ribon.\n\nIn 1960 Pierre Franck and Georges Herbert took over direction. They ran the theatre until 1978, when they were replaced by Georges Wilson as Artistic Director and principal scenic designer. He remained until 1995 when Gérard Maro, who had been Artistic Director of the Comédie de Paris since 1981 took over as chef of the Théâtre de l'Œuvre. He is still in charge today.\n\n"}
{"id": "2049139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2049139", "title": "United States House Committee on Education and the Workforce", "text": "United States House Committee on Education and the Workforce\n\nThe Committee on Education and the Workforce is a standing committee of the United States House of Representatives. From 1947 until 1994 and again from 2007 to 2011, during Democratic control of the House, it was known as the Committee on Education and Labor.\n\nAttempts were made to create a congressional committee on education and labor starting with the early congresses but issues over Congress's constitutional ability to oversee such issues delayed the committee's formation. Finally, on March 21, 1867, the Committee on Education and Labor was founded following the end of the Civil War and during the rapid industrialization of America. On December 19, 1883, the committee was divided into two, the Committee on Education and the Committee on Labor. The committees again merged on January 2, 1947, after the passage of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, becoming the Committee on Education and Labor again. On January 4, 1995, when the Republicans took over the House, the Committee was renamed the Committee on Economic and Educational Opportunities. It was renamed again as the Committee on Education and the Workforce two years later on January 7, 1997. On January 4, 2007, with the Democrats once again in the majority, the committee's name was changed back to Committee on Education and Labor. After Republicans recaptured the House majority in the 2010 elections, they returned to the name, Committee on Education and the Workforce, effective with the opening of the 112th Congress in 2011.\n\nFrom the Official Committee Webpage:\n\n\"The Education and Labor Committee's purpose is to ensure that Americans' needs are addressed so that students and workers may move forward in a changing school system and a competitive global economy.\" \n\n\"The committee and its five subcommittees oversee education and workforce programs that affect all Americans, from early learning through secondary education, from job training through retirement.\"\n\n\"The Education and Labor Committee Democrats' goal is to keep America strong by increasing education opportunities for students, by making it easier to send young adults to college, and by helping workers find job training and retirement security for a better future. The following education issues are under the jurisdiction of the Education and Labor Committee:\"\n\nEducation. The Committee on Education and Labor oversees federal programs and initiatives dealing with education at all levels—from preschool through high school to higher education and continuing education. These include:\n\n\nLabor. The Committee on Labor also holds jurisdiction over workforce initiatives aimed at strengthening health care, job training, and retirement security for workers. Workforce issues in the jurisdiction of the Education and the Labor Committee include:\n\n\nSources: (Chair), (Ranking Member), (D), (R), (D), (R)\n\n\n"}
