{"id": "48221887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48221887", "title": "Abu Yahia al-Hamawi", "text": "Abu Yahia al-Hamawi\n\nMohannad al-Masri (born 1981), known by the alias Abu Yahia al-Hamawi, (sometimes transliterated Abu Yahya al-Hamawi or Abu Yehya al-Hamawi) was the third leader of the Salafist Ahrar al-Sham during the Syrian Civil War. He served from 12 September 2015 until his term ended in November 2016.\n\nAl-Hamawi came from Qalaat al-Madiq, Hama, Syria. He trained as a civil engineer and studied at Tishreen University in Latakia. He was with Hadi Al Abdullah who was a journalist during the civil war. He was an activist and an inmate of the \"Islamist wing\" of the Syrian government’s main political prison in Sednaya from 2007 to 2011. An article in the \"Toronto Star\" described him as a \"political prisoner\". He was released in 2011, when the Syrian uprising began.\n\nHe later became leader of the Osama bin Zeid Company, a militia based around his hometown of Qalaat al-Madiq, and then rose through the ranks to become leader of Ahrar al-Sham in September 2015. According to \"Al-Monitor\", the change is leadership is said to have made Ahrar Al-Sham \"more palatable to the West\" since al-Hamawi \"is seen as someone who will fit the 'moderate Salafist' image Ahrar al-Sham wants to have\". According to \"The Daily Beast\", al-Hamawi claimed that \"Ahrar al-Sham was mainstream and aligned with Western interests.\" In December 2015, al-Hamawi sent Labib al-Nahhas to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia in order to participate in the Saudi-led rebel conference that produced the High Negotiations Committee (HNC). Al-Hamawi has also falsely claimed that Al-Nusra had withdrawn from the Army of Conquest.\n\nHis term as leader could have been extended, but the Shura Council of Ahrar al-Sham appointed Ali al-Omar as leader in November 2016.\n"}
{"id": "58319355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58319355", "title": "April Salome Forest Management Area", "text": "April Salome Forest Management Area\n\nApril Salome Forest Management Area also known as April Salumei Rainforest is a forest management area in April — Salumei tropical forest covering about 521,500 hectares in Ambunti-Dreikikir District of East Sepik Province, of Papua New Guinea. Forest resides in the basins of two rivers: April and Salumei. Town Ambunti serves as a gateway to the April Salome Forest Management Area.\nIt is estimated that about 20,000 people are living in this area in 164 forest-dependent communities. Populated places include Nakek and Uwu. \nApril Salome Forest Management Area is located in the Sepik river basin. Sepik tributary, the April river is the major river in the area.\n\nPresently April Salome Forest area is a pilot project for REDD initiative by United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change under United Nations REDD Programme. \n\nIt is also mishandling and corruption showcase. \n"}
{"id": "15190263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15190263", "title": "Armenian Center for National and International Studies", "text": "Armenian Center for National and International Studies\n\nThe Armenian Center for National and International Studies (\"ACNIS\") is an independent research center based in Yerevan. It is the institutional initiative of Raffi Hovannisian, Armenia’s former Minister of Foreign Affairs. Founded in 1994. The institution focuses on foreign and public policy issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5006765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5006765", "title": "Association for Civil Rights in Israel", "text": "Association for Civil Rights in Israel\n\nThe Association for Civil Rights in Israel (ACRI) (Hebrew: ; Arabic: ) was created in 1972 as an independent, non-partisan not-for-profit organization with the mission of protecting human rights and civil rights in Israel and the territories under its control. ACRI is Israel’s oldest and largest human rights organization. Headquartered in Tel Aviv, with offices in Jerusalem, Nazareth and Be'er Sheva, the organization promotes transparency and accountability in government. \n\nACRI has been accused by critics, including former Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, of defending terrorists.\n\nEstablished in 1972, ACRI views itself as being \"committed to promoting the universality of human rights and defending the human rights and civil liberties of all, regardless of religion, nationality, gender, ethnicity, political affiliation, sexual orientation, or socioeconomic background.\" The association established its views based on the basic rights recognized in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948, and the values in Declaration of the Establishment of the State of Israel.\n\nIn 1981, ACRI instituted a human rights award to be given to \"individuals and organizations that have made a outstanding contribution to the advancement of human rights in Israel\". The award was renamed in 1983 as the \"Emil Grunzweig Human Rights Award.\"\n\nIn 2009, ACRI organized what has become an annual \"Human Rights March\" to mark International Human Rights Day (December 10) in Tel Aviv.\n\nACRI’s Legal Department argues cases before the Supreme Court of Israel, and also seeks redress before district and labor courts, government ministries, and Knesset committees.\n\nACRI’s Education Department conducts human rights training programs, produces educational curricula in Hebrew and Arabic, and organizes conferences and lectures on human rights education. Additionally, ACRI operates a program on International Humanitarian Law (IHL) and offers IHL educational workshops to social activists, students, educators, youth movement counselors, and students at pre-military academies to \"enhance the participants’ knowledge of IHL, and to provide opportunities for discussion and for developing their positions on the issues involved.\"\n\nACRI publishes reports and information leaflets; organizes lectures, conferences, film screenings and other public and community events covering a wide range of human rights issues; and runs a public hotline to assist people whose rights have been infringed.\n\nInternationally, ACRI submits shadow reports and provides information to UN committees and representatives regarding Israel’s compliance with its human rights obligations; meets with foreign diplomats and government representatives; participates in international conferences and NGO networks; and raises awareness of human rights issues by generating ongoing international media coverage.\n\nACRI focus on issues pertaining to Arab Minority Rights, Anti-Democratic Initiatives, Freedom of Expression, LGBT Rights, East Jerusalem, Human Rights Defenders in the Occupied Palestinian Territories (OPT), Migrant Workers, Child Rights, Negev Bedouins, Refugees and Asylum Seekers, Right to Health, Women's Rights, and the Right to Housing.\n\nThough ACRI does not identify itself politically, activities of the association has been criticized as assisting organizations that harm Israel's national security. Such criticism was made by prime-minister Yitzhak Rabin over an appeal about exiling 400 Hamas activists to Lebanon in 1992. Rabin Called ACRI - \"Association for Rights of Hamas\". Other right-wing activists have called it \"Association for Palestinian Civil Rights\".\n\nIn November 2017, Education Minister Naftali Bennett cancelled a conference to be held in cooperation with ACRI following a letter sent by a group of bereaved families accusing ACRI of defending terrorists. ACRI denied the allegations and stated that it does not defend terrorists during their criminal proceedings, rather only in regards to their rights in prison and matters of citizenship and residency.\n\nThe Emil Grunzweig Human Rights Award is awarded annually by Association for Civil Rights in Israel to \"individuals and organizations that have made a outstanding contribution to the advancement of human rights in Israel\". The award was established in 1981 as an initiative by Professor Jacob Lorch, but was renamed in 1983 after the murder of activist Emil Grunzweig by a grenade thrown by a right-wing Israeli extremist during a Peace Now demonstration against the war in Lebanon.\n\nRecipients of the award have included:\n\nAs well as donations from individuals, foundations and other institutions.\n\nACRI is a member of the International Network of Civil Liberties Organizations (INCLO), a network of 13 independent human rights organizations around the world with the aim of advancing human liberty in their respective countries. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) is among the oldest of the 13.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3949201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3949201", "title": "Bet-Nahrain Democratic Party", "text": "Bet-Nahrain Democratic Party\n\nThe Bet-Nahrain Democratic Party (), usually abbreviated as BNDP is an Assyrian political party in Iraq led by Romeo Nissan Hakkari. One of the party's goals is to create an autonomous Assyrian Administrative Region within the Assyrian homeland.\n\nThe BNDP was founded on the 21st of March 1974 as a union between the Bet-Nahrain Organization in California headed by Sargon Dadesho, and the Quest Movement in Chicago headed by notable individuals such as Gilyana Yonan. \n\nBNDP was influential in the development of the Assyrian flag in 1968 alongside the Assyrian Universal Alliance and the Assyrian National Federation. \n\nBNDP contested the Iraqi Kurdistan legislative election of 2005 as part of the ruling Democratic Patriotic Alliance of Kurdistan and were allocated one seat for Romeo Hakkari. It also contested the Iraqi legislative election, January 2005 as part of the Kurdish alliance, and Goriel Mineso Khamis was allocated one seat in the Council of Representatives of Iraq.\n\nIt did not participate in the Iraqi legislative election of December 2005 \n\nIn the Iraqi governorate elections of 2009, the BNDP allied itself with the pro-Kurdish Chaldean Syriac Assyrian Popular Council in the Ishtar Patriotic List. The list won two seats in Baghdad and Ninawa, including BNDP member Giwargis Esho Sada in Baghdad. \n\nOn the 6th of January 2015, the BNDP and Bet-Nahrain Patriotic Union announced the formation of the Nineveh Plain Forces to protect the people of the Nineveh Plain and maintain control of the region for people that want to return to the area. \n\nThe party is active among Assyrian Americans in California, where it runs the KBSV (\"Assyria Vision\") television station, and the KBES radio station.\n\nIn 1983 the party set up the \"Assyrian National Congress\" with the \"Assyrian American Leadership Council\". In 2002 they entered into an alliance with the Free Officers Movement of exiled military officers led by Najib al-Salhi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1527149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1527149", "title": "Canadians for Equal Marriage", "text": "Canadians for Equal Marriage\n\nCanadians for Equal Marriage is a Canadian public interest group representing Egale Canada, PFLAG Canada, the Canadian Federation of Students, the Canadian Labour Congress, the Canadian Psychological Association, the Canadian Association of University Teachers, and the Canadian Association of Social Workers, among others to promote the legalisation of same-sex marriage in Canada. It has been relatively inactive since its goals were achieved with the passage and acceptance of the \"Civil Marriage Act\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43197823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43197823", "title": "Cash-Over-Valuation", "text": "Cash-Over-Valuation\n\nCash-Over-Valuation, or COV for short as it is commonly known in Singapore, was a prevalent feature in the resale market for HDB (Housing Development Board) flats in Singapore for years until it was reviewed on 10 March 2014.\n\nCOV can be defined as the difference between the resale price and the market value of the flat (HDB) that is paid by the buyer upfront.\n\nBefore 10 March 2014, a HDB resale flat begins with a professional valuation to discover the worth of the flat. The seller and buyer will negotiate about the amount to be paid above the valuation. This amount is the COV. The selling price will thus be the valuation plus COV.\n\nIf the flat is sold at valuation or below, no COV is paid.\n\nHowever, COV has often been accused of causing volatility in the HDB resale flat market and sharp price hikes.\n\nCurrently, HDB will accept valuation requests only from buyers or their salespersons, after the buyers have been granted an Option to Purchase by the flat sellers.\n\n"}
{"id": "3788027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3788027", "title": "Center on Conscience &amp; War", "text": "Center on Conscience &amp; War\n\nThe Center on Conscience & War (CCW) is a United States non-profit anti-war organization located in Washington, D.C. dedicated to defending and extending the rights of conscientious objectors. The group participates in the G.I. Rights Hotline, and works against all forms of conscription. There are no charges for any of CCW's services.\n\nThe group was organized as \"National Council for Religious Conscientious Objectors\" on October 5, 1940 by the three historic peace churches in response to the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940, which introduced the first peacetime draft in the United States. The Selective Service Act provided for \"work of national importance\" and an alternative to military service for conscientious objectors. The immediate task of this group was to advise conscientious objectors and create a structure for the proposed alternative service. On November 26, 1940, \"National Council for Religious Conscientious Objectors\" was merged with a similar organization, \"Civilian Service Board\" to become \"National Service Board for Religious Objectors (NSBRO)\".\n\nIn the following months additional groups became interested in the work of NSBRO and positions on the governing board was expanded to include representatives from the Fellowship of Reconciliation, Fellowship of Peace of the Methodist Church, Disciples of Christ and Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America. During this first year a total of fifteen groups became members of NSBRO and by the end of the war this number grew to thirty nine.\nDuring its first year, 3000 conscientious objectors were referred to NSBRO by Selective Service. In all, nearly 12,000 World War II COs would be handled by NSBRO. The program for conscientious objectors, Civilian Public Service (CPS), was under civilian control with NSBRO responsible for working with the government and representing the interests of the churches and other groups involved.\n\nThe work of NSBRO was divided into three sections. The \"Camp Section\" selected sites, often former Civilian Conservation Corps facilities, for use as CPS base camps, The \"Assignment Section\" matched men with camps and units, keeping detailed records of the assignments and projects. The \"Complaint Section\" worked with cases of men who were denied conscientious objector status. Later an \"Advisory Section\" was created to track the changes in Selective Service regulations and interpret them to NSBRO constituency. Regular contact was made with COs who chose prison over CPS.\n\nConscientious objectors were required to serve into 1947, past the end of the war. Member groups who disagreed with this policy or the cooperation required with a system of conscription began to withdraw from the organization. War Resisters League pulled out early in the war, followed by Fellowship of Reconciliation, American Friends Service Committee, and Association of Catholic Conscientious Objectors. The last CPS camp closed in April 1947, completing this phase of NSBRO work.\n\nIn 1964 the name was changed to \"National Interreligious Service Board for Conscientious Objectors (NISBCO)\" and in 2000 became \"Center on Conscience & War (CCW).\"\n\nToday, the work of the Center on Conscience & War is mainly with members of the US military who experience a crisis of conscience and seek discharge as conscientious objectors. CCW also provides technical and community support to other conscientious objectors, including immigrants seeking citizenship in the US who are moved by conscience to take an alternative oath of citizenship that does not include a promise to bear arms, and youth facing Selective Service (draft) registration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18697140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18697140", "title": "Central Auditing Organization", "text": "Central Auditing Organization\n\nThe Central Auditing Organization () is an independent auditing institution established in Egypt in 1942 as an instrument of public finance control. Originally created as the \"Divan of Accounting\", its name was changed to \"Divan of Auditing\" in 1960, before acquiring its current designation in 1964. \n\nIn 1995 it hosted XV INCOSAI, the fifteenth triennial convention of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions.\n\nThe CAO supervises the management of public-sector companies and government departments, including about 130 central government departments and administrative units, 120 service agencies, 29 governorates, 50 economic authorities and more than 160 state-owned enterprises, political parties, trade unions, national and party news media, and all units subsidised by the State. The CAO may also audit and examine the work and accounts of any other entity, as assigned by the President, the Prime Minister or the People's Assembly of Egypt.\nIt is independent of the cabinet, and reports directly to the President of Egypt, to whom it is subordinated.\n\n"}
{"id": "2440600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2440600", "title": "Code Pink", "text": "Code Pink\n\nCode Pink: Women for Peace is an internationally active NGO that describes itself as a \"grassroots peace and social justice movement working to end U.S.-funded wars and occupations, to challenge militarism globally and to redirect our resources into health care, education, green jobs and other life-affirming activities\". In addition to its focus on anti-war issues, it has taken action on issues such as drones (including protests, trips to meet with drone victims in Pakistan and Yemen, bringing them to the US), Guantanamo Bay prison (including a delegation that included former prisoners and yearly protests at the White House), Palestinian statehood (including its involvement in the BDS movement to protest Ahava, SodaStream, ReMax, and AirBnB), the Iran nuclear deal, Saudi Arabia (including protests to end U.S. alliance with Saudi Arabia, its airstrikes on Yemen, and its executions of its political dissidents), and Women Cross DMZ. The organization characterizes itself as women-initiated. It has regional offices in Los Angeles, California and Washington, D.C., and many more chapters in the U.S. as well as several in other countries.\n\nWith members wearing the group's signature pink color, Code Pink has conducted marches, protests, and high-visibility actions in order to promote its goals. Although women initiated and lead the group, Code Pink encourages people of all genders to participate in its activities.\n\nCode Pink was founded on November 17, 2002 by Americans Jodie Evans, Medea Benjamin and other activists. The group's name is a play on the United States Department of Homeland Security's color-coded alert system in which, for example, Code Orange and Code Red signify the highest levels of danger.\n\nIn February 2003, just weeks before the invasion of Iraq, Code Pink organized its first trip to that nation, and subsequently led five delegations there. These delegations included parents who had lost their children in Iraq, and parents of active soldiers. Additionally, they brought six Iraqi women on a tour of the United States, and published a report about how the U.S. occupation affected the status of Iraqi women.\n\nOn its website, Code Pink lists allegations of U.S. war crimes, and states that thousands of civilians were killed in Fallujah in 2004 due to the actions of the U.S. military. Along with other groups, they gave over $600,000 worth of humanitarian aid to refugees of Fallujah in 2004.\n\nCode Pink has also joined in vigils at the Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington, D.C. The group has been criticized for actions at the vigils: the criticism has centered on tactics such as displaying coffins and chanting aggressive slogans. Speaking about the display of coffins, Kevin Pannell, an amputee and former patient at the hospital, said it \"was probably the most distasteful thing I had ever seen. Ever. We went by there one day and I drove by and [the anti-war protesters] had a bunch of flag-draped coffins laid out on the sidewalk. You know that 95 percent of the guys in the hospital bed lost guys whenever they got hurt and survivors' guilt is the worst thing you can deal with.\" To those that faulted aggressive chants and signs, Code Pink responded that certain of the disruptive protesters were not part of their group and that they have asked these protesters to be respectful. Code Pink says that the purpose of the vigils is to highlight the lack of care for veterans and claims that the vigils have helped spur improvements in that care.\n\nConservative talk-show host Tucker Carlson criticized Pink leader Medea Benjamin for her support of Hugo Chávez. She was quoted as saying that the charge in sections of the US media that Chavez had cracked down on free speech and civil rights in Venezuela was a myth. In an interview on his MSNBC show, Benjamin was asked, \"Do you want to revise that given the news that Hugo Chávez has closed the last nationally broadcast opposition television station for criticizing him?\" Benjamin replied that it was not true and that Chavez simply did not renew the license because the station \"participated in a coup against a democratically elected government, his [Chavez's] government.\" Benjamin also said \"Peru recently did not renew a license. Uruguay didn‘t renew a license. Why do you hold Venezuela to a different standard?\" Carlson responded that a 360-page Venezuelan government-published book accused RCTV of showing lack of respect for authorities and institutions. Carlson asked Benjamin, \"I would think, as a self-described liberal, you would stand up for the right of people to 'challenge authorities and institutions.' And yet you are apologizing for the squelching of minority views. Why could that be?\" Benjamin replied that, \"They [RCTV] falsified information. They got people out on the street. They falsified footage that showed pro-Chavez supporters killing people, which did not happen. They refuse to cover any of the pro-Chavez demonstrations.\"\n\nIn the summer of 2009, Code Pink began their \"Ground the Drones\" campaign. This campaign was a response to the Obama administration's continued and increased use of unmanned drones in the \"war on terror,\" specifically in regions surrounding Pakistan and Afghanistan. Code Pink claimed that many of the drone strikes intended to target terrorist leaders and strongholds often miss their targets, causing the unnecessary deaths of innocent civilians.\n\n\"Ground the Drones\" was fashioned as a form of non-violent, civil disobedience, similar to protests earlier that spring, by groups such as Voices for Creative Non Violence. Code Pink targeted Creech Air Force base in Indian Springs, Nevada, claiming it was the “epicenter” for controlling drone activity. The goal of the protest was \"halting unmanned aircraft strikes controlled via satellite links from Creech and other bases.\" The group continued protesting at Creech AFB through November and December 2009. Code Pink returned to Creech AFB in October 2011, along with other protest groups, to mark the 10th anniversary of the occupation of Afghanistan. Protesters dubbed it the \"largest anti-war demonstration ever at Creech Air Force Base.\n\nIn August 2013, Code Pink's national coordinator, Alli McCracken, disrupted the annual Aerial Unmanned Vehicles Systems Integrated summit, in Washington, DC. During a speech advocating the full automation of unmanned drones, McCracken interrupted by shouting “Are you going to talk about the innocent people who have been killed by the drones?,” while producing a \"STOP KILLER DRONES\" banner, until she was escorted out by security.\n\nIn November 2013, Code Pink organized a \"Ground the Drones\" summit. The summit took place over two days and was held at Georgetown University, in Washington, D.C. The summit featured films pertaining to drone warfare, as well as a variety of guest speakers from various human rights and civil liberties organizations. Topics of the summit included ethical and legal arguments surrounding drone warfare, as well as concerns over the use of drones domestically.\n\n\"Ground the Drones\" has also attempted to involve American citizens in the fight to end drone warfare. Code Pink's website advises readers to take action by, among other ways, contacting their local representatives, organizing film-screenings, and distributing pamphlets.\n\nOn October 31, 2009, Code Pink organized a protest rally outside the White House to coincide with President and Mrs. Obama's official Halloween party. As many of the guests were family members of military personnel, the Code Pink press release encouraged attendees to dress as \"zombie soldiers\". The event gained some notoriety when complaints surfaced about Reuters' characterization of their protest as \"taunting\" children, a characterization that Reuters stood by.\n\nCode Pink has organized more than seven delegations to Gaza, some of them at the invitation of the United Nations. Critics have since accused Code Pink of working \"closely with terrorist organizations and states sponsors of terrorism\" in Gaza and Iran. Prior to the Gaza Freedom March, Code Pink endorsed the “Cairo Declaration to End Israeli Apartheid\", which calls for comprehensive boycott of Israel.\n\nDuring the Gaza Freedom March, Code Pink co-founder Medea Benjamin coordinated the organization's stay with the Hamas terrorist group. Members resided in the Commodore, a Hamas-owned hotel in Gaza City. Hamas security officials accompanied activists as they visited Palestinian homes and Gaza-based NGOs. Prior to the march, Benjamin said the Hamas government had \"pledged to ensure our safety.\" However, Code Pink leaders claimed Hamas had hijacked the initiative from the onset after imposing prohibitions on the organization's movements around Gaza. Amira Hass referred to the event as \"an opportunity for Hamas cabinet ministers to get decent media coverage in the company of Western demonstrators.\"\n\nCode Pink helped to organize an International Women's Day Delegation to Gaza in March 2014. Upon arrival at the Cairo airport on March 3, 2014, Medea Benjamin was detained and assaulted by Egyptian authorities. She was deported to Turkey after the authorities had dislocated her shoulder. Other members of the international delegation, including American, French, Belgian, and British citizens, who arrived the next day were also deported. Some members made it into Cairo, although no one from the delegation made it to Gaza.\n\nCode Pink protesters were present at the National Rifle Association's first press conference following the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, where N.R.A.'s Executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre advocated placing armed guards in schools and said \"The only way to stop a bad guy with a gun is with a good guy with a gun.\"\n\nAbout ten activists of Code Pink demonstrated in U.S. Congress against military attacks in retaliation for Syria's suspected use of chemical weapons against its own people.\n\nCode Pink activists demonstrated in Capitol Hill against the American intervention in Syria and Iraq to stop ISIS.\n\nCode Pink member Desiree Fairooz was arrested for laughing after a description of Senator Jeff Sessions by Alabama U.S. Senator Richard Shelby of the nominee as having a history of his \"treating all Americans equally under the law is clear and well-documented,\" during the January 2017 confirmation hearing as United States Attorney General. After she had been convicted at trial, that verdict was reversed by the chief District Court Judge Robert Morin. The judge said Fairooz should not have been tried for laughing, only for speaking out as she was being removed, and called a mistrial. Instead of dismissing the case, Morin set her retrial for September.\nFairooz faced up to a year in prison and $2,000 in fines for disruptive and disorderly conduct and obstructing and impeding passage on US Capitol grounds.\nOn November 6, 2017, District of Columbia U.S. Attorney Jessie K. Liu filed a notice of nolle prosequi in the case against Desiree Fairooz. \nUpon the decision, Code Pink released a statement calling the 3 trials a waste of time and tens of thousands of taxpayer dollars, adding, \"These sentences are designed to discourage dissent and prevent activists from engaging in the daily protests that are taking place during a tumultuous time.\" From the January 20th protests of the inauguration of Donald Trump, the United States Department of Justice is prosecuting 200 people on multiple felony charges.\n\n"}
{"id": "14496392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14496392", "title": "Corruption in India", "text": "Corruption in India\n\nCorruption is an issue that adversely affects India's economy of central, state and local government agencies. Not only has it held the economy back from reaching new heights, but rampant corruption has stunted the country's development. A study conducted by Transparency International in 2005 recorded that more than 92% of Indians had at some point or another paid a bribe to a public official to get a job done.\nIn a study conducted in 2008, Transparency International reported that about 50% of Indians had first hand experience of paying bribes or using contacts to get services performed by public offices.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 81st place out of 180 countries.\n\nThe largest contributors to corruption are entitlement programs and social spending schemes enacted by the Indian government. Examples include the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and the National Rural Health Mission. Other areas of corruption include India's trucking industry which is forced to pay billions of rupees in bribes annually to numerous regulatory and police stops on interstate highways.\n\nThe media has widely published allegations of corrupt Indian citizens stashing millions of rupees in Swiss banks. Swiss authorities denied these allegations, which were later proven in 2015–2016. The Indian media is largely controlled by extremely corrupt politicians and industrialists who play a major role by misleading the public with incorrect information and use the media for mud-slinging at political and business opponents.\n\nThe causes of corruption in India include excessive regulations, complicated tax and licensing systems, numerous government departments with opaque bureaucracy and discretionary powers, monopoly of government controlled institutions on certain goods and services delivery, and the lack of transparent laws and processes. There are significant variations in the level of corruption and in the government's efforts to reduce corruption across different areas of India.\n\nCorruption in India is a problem that has serious implications for protecting the rule of law and ensuring access to justice. , 120 of India's 524 parliament members were accused of various crimes, under India's First Information Report procedure wherein anyone can allege another to have committed a crime.\n\nMany of the biggest scandals have involved high level government officials, including Cabinet Ministers and Chief Ministers, such as the 2010 Commonwealth Games scam (), the Adarsh Housing Society scam, the Coal Mining Scam (), the Mining Scandal in Karnataka and the Cash for Vote scams.\n\nA 2005 study done by the Transparency International in India found that more than 92% of the people had firsthand experience of paying bribes or peddling influence to get services performed in a public office. Taxes and bribes are common between state borders; Transparency International estimates that truckers annually pay in bribes.\n\nBoth government regulators and police share in bribe money, to the tune of 43% and 45% each, respectively. The en route stoppages at checkpoints and entry-points can take up to 11 hours per day. About 60% of these (forced) stoppages on roads by concerned authorities such as government regulators, police, forest, sales and excise, octroi, and weighing and measuring departments are for extorting money. The loss in productivity due to these stoppages is an important national concern; the number of truck trips could increase by 40%, if forced delays are avoided. According to a 2007 World Bank published report, the travel time for a Delhi-Mumbai trip could be reduced by about 2 days per trip if the corruption and associated regulatory stoppages to extract bribes were eliminated.\n\nA 2009 survey of the leading economies of Asia, revealed Indian bureaucracy to be not only the least efficient out of Singapore, Hong Kong, Thailand, South Korea, Japan, Malaysia, Taiwan, Vietnam, China, Philippines and Indonesia, but that working with India's civil servants was a \"slow and painful\" process.\n\nOfficials are alleged to steal state property. In cities and villages throughout India, groups of municipal and other government officials, elected politicians, judicial officers, real estate developers and law enforcement officials, acquire, develop and sell land in illegal ways. Such officials and politicians are very well protected by the immense power and influence they possess. Apart from this, slum-dwellers who are allotted houses under several housing schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awaas Yojana, Rajiv Awas Yojna, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna etc., rent out these houses to others, to earn money due to severe unemployment and lack of a steady source of income.\n\nA 2006 report claimed state-funded construction activities in Uttar Pradesh, such as road building were dominated by construction mafias, consisting of cabals of corrupt public works officials, materials suppliers, politicians and construction contractors.\n\nProblems caused by corruption in government funded projects are not limited to the state of Uttar Pradesh. According to The World Bank, aid programmes are beset by corruption, bad administration and under-payments. As an example, the report cites that only 40% of grain handed out for the poor reaches its intended target. The World Bank study finds that the public distribution programmes and social spending contracts have proven to be a waste due to corruption.\n\nFor example, the government implemented the \"Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act\" (MGNREGA) on 25 August 2005. The Central government outlay for this welfare scheme is in FY 2010–2011. After 5 years of implementation, in 2011, the programme was widely criticised as no more effective than other poverty reduction programmes in India. Despite its best intentions, MGNREGA faces the challenges of corrupt officials reportedly pocketing money on behalf of fake rural employees, poor quality of the programme infrastructure, and unintended destructive effect on poverty.\n\nIn Government Hospitals, corruption is associated with non-availability/duplication of medicines, obtaining admission, consultations with doctors and receiving diagnostic services.\n\nNational Rural Health Mission is another health care-related government programme that has been subject to large scale corruption allegations. This social spending and entitlement programme hoped to improve health care delivery across rural India. Managed since 2005 by the Ministry of Health, the Indian government mandated a spending of in 2004–2005, and increased it annually to be about 1% of India's gross domestic product. The National Rural Health Mission programme has been clouded by a large-scale corruption scandal in which high-level government appointed officials were arrested, several of whom died under mysterious circumstances including one in prison. Corruption, waste and fraud-related losses from this government programme has been alleged to be .\n\nCSIR, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, has been flagged in ongoing efforts to root out corruption in India. Established with the directive to do translational research and create real technologies, CSIR has been accused of transforming into a ritualistic, overly-bureaucratic organisation that does little more than churn out papers.\n\nThere are many issues facing Indian scientists, with some, such as MIT systems scientist VA Shiva Ayyadurai, calling for transparency, a meritocratic system, and an overhaul of the bureaucratic agencies that oversee science and technology. Sumit Bhaduri stated, \"The challenges of turning Indian science into part of an innovation process are many. Many competent Indian scientists aspire to be ineffectual administrators (due to administrative power and political patronage), rather than do the kind of science that makes a difference\". Prime minister Manmohan Singh spoke at the 99th Indian Science Congress and commented on the state of the sciences in India, after an advisory council informed him there were problems with \"the overall environment for innovation and creative work\" and a \"war-like\" approach was needed.\n\nThere have been several cases of collusion involving officials of the Income Tax Department of India for preferential tax treatment and relaxed prosecutions in exchange for bribes.\n\nIn August 2011, an iron ore mining scandal became a media focus in India. In September 2011, elected member of Karnataka's legislative assembly Janardhana Reddy, was arrested on charges of corruption and illegal mining of iron ore in his home state. It was alleged that his company received preferential allotment of resources, organised and exported billions of dollars' worth of iron ore to Chinese companies in recent years without paying any royalty to the state government exchequer of Karnataka or the central government of India, and that these Chinese companies made payment to shell companies registered in Caribbean and north Atlantic tax havens controlled by Reddy.\n\nIt was also alleged that corrupt government officials cooperated with Reddy, starting from government officials in charge of regulating mining to government officials in charge of regulating port facilities and shipping. These officials received monthly bribes in exchange for enabling the illegal export of illegally mined iron ore to China. Such scandals have led to a demand in India for consensually driven action plan to eradicate the piracy of India's mineral resources by an illegal, politically corrupt government officials-business nexus, removal of incentives for illegal mining, and the creation of incentives for legal mining and domestic use of iron ore and steel manufacturing.\n\nA study conducted between 2004 and 2005 found that India's driver licensing procedure was a hugely distorted bureaucratic process and allows drivers to be licensed despite their low driving ability through promoting the usage of agents. Individuals with the willingness to pay make a significant payment above the official fee and most of these extra payments are made to agents, who act as an intermediary between bureaucrats and applicants.\n\nThe average licensee paid Rs 1,080, approximately 2.5 times the official fee of Rs 450, in order to obtain a license. On average, those who hired agents had a lower driving ability, with agents helping unqualified drivers obtain licenses and bypass the legally required driving examination. Among the surveyed individuals, approximately 60% of the license holders did not even take the licensing exam and 54% of those license holders failed an independent driving test.\n\nAgents are the channels of corruption in this bureaucratic driver licensing system, facilitating access to licenses among those who are unqualified to drive. Some of the failures of this licensing system are caused by corrupt bureaucrats who collaborate with agents by creating additional barriers within the system against those who did not hire agents.\n\nProfessor Bibek Debroy and Laveesh Bhandari claim in their book \"Corruption in India: The DNA and RNA\" that public officials in India may be cornering as much as , or 1.26 per cent of the GDP through corruption. The book claims most bribery is in government delivered services and the transport and real estate industries.\n\nBribery and corruption are pervasive, but some areas tend to more issues than others. A 2013 EY (Ernst & Young) Study reports the industries perceived to be the most vulnerable to corruption as: Infrastructure & Real Estate, Metals & Mining, Aerospace & Defense, and Power & Utilities. There are a range of specific factors that make a sector more susceptible to bribery and corruption risks than others. High use of middlemen, large value contracts, and liasioning activities etc. drive the depth, volume and frequency of corrupt practices in vulnerable sectors.\n\nA 2011 KPMG study reports India's real estate, telecommunications and government-run social development projects as the three top sectors plagued by corruption. The study found India's defence, the information technology industry and energy sectors to be the most competitive and least corruption prone sectors.\n\nCMS India claims in its 2010 India Corruption Study report that socio-economically weaker sections of Indian society are the most adversely affected by government corruption. These include the rural and urban poor, although the study claims that nationwide perception of corruption has decreased between 2005 and 2010. Over the 5-year period, a significantly greater number of people surveyed from the middle and poorest classes in all parts of India claimed government corruption had dropped over time, and that they had fewer direct experiences with bribery demands. Whereas in reality corruption has increased ten folds since 2010 and continues to grow relentlessly on a daily basis.\n\nThe table below compares the perceived anti-corruption effort across some of the major states in India. A rising index implies higher anti-corruption effort and falling corruption. According to this table, the states of Bihar and Gujarat have experienced significant improvements in their anti-corruption efforts, while conditions have worsened in the states of Assam and West Bengal. Consistent with the results in this table, in 2012 a BBC News report claimed the state of Bihar has transformed in recent years to become the least corrupt state in India.\n\nBlack money refers to money that is not fully or legitimately the property of the 'owner'. A government white paper on black money in India suggests two possible sources of black money in India; the first includes activities not permitted by the law, such as crime, drug trade, terrorism and corruption, all of which are illegal in India and secondly, wealth that may have been generated through lawful activity but accumulated by failure to declare income and pay taxes. Some of this black money ends up in illicit financial flows across international borders, such as deposits in tax haven countries.\n\nA November 2010 report from the Washington-based Global Financial Integrity estimates that over a 60-year period, India lost US$213 billion in illicit financial flows beginning in 1948; adjusted for inflation, this is estimated to be $462 billion in 2010, or about $8 billion per year ($7 per capita per year). The report also estimated the size of India's underground economy at approximately US$640 billion at the end of 2008 or roughly 50% of the nation's GDP.\n\nIndia was ranked 38th by money held by its citizens in Swiss banks in 2004 but then improved its ranking by slipping to 61st position in 2015 and further improved its position by slipping to 75th position in 2016.\nAccording to a 2010 The Hindu article, unofficial estimates indicate that Indians had over US$1,456 billion in black money stored in Swiss banks (approximately US$1.4 trillion). While some news reports claimed that data provided by the Swiss Banking Association Report (2006) showed India has more black money than the rest of the world combined, a more recent report quoted the SBA's Head of International Communications as saying that no such official Swiss Banking Association statistics exist.\n\nAnother report said that Indian-owned Swiss bank account assets are worth 13 times the country's national debt. These allegations have been denied by Swiss Bankers Association. James Nason of Swiss Bankers Association in an interview about alleged black money from India, holds that \"The (black money) figures were rapidly picked up in the Indian media and in Indian opposition circles, and circulated as gospel truth. However, this story was a complete fabrication. The Swiss Bankers Association never published such a report. Anyone claiming to have such figures (for India) should be forced to identify their source and explain the methodology used to produce them.\"\n\nIn a separate study, Dev Kar of Global Financial Integrity concludes, \"Media reports circulating in India that Indian nationals held around US$1.4 trillion in illicit external assets are widely off the mark compared to the estimates found by his study.\" Kar claims the amounts are significantly smaller, only about 1.5% of India's GDP on average per annum basis, between 1948 and 2008. This includes corruption, bribery and kickbacks, criminal activities, trade mispricing and efforts to shelter wealth by Indians from India's tax authorities.\n\nAccording to a third report, published in May 2012, Swiss National Bank estimates that the total amount of deposits in all Swiss banks, at the end of 2010, by citizens of India were CHF 1.95 billion (). The Swiss Ministry of External Affairs has confirmed these figures upon request for information by the Indian Ministry of External Affairs. This amount is about 700-fold less than the alleged $1.4 trillion in some media reports. The report also provided a comparison of the deposits held by Indians and by citizens of other nations in Swiss banks. Total deposits held by citizens of India constitute only 0.13 per cent of the total bank deposits of citizens of all countries. Further, the share of Indians in the total bank deposits of citizens of all countries in Swiss banks has reduced from 0.29 per cent in 2006 to 0.13 per cent in 2010.\n\nIndian companies are reportedly misusing public trusts for money laundering. India has no centralised repository—like the registrar of companies for corporates—of information on public trusts.\n\nIn Gujarat, Delhi and many other major cities, sales of gold increased on 9 November, with an increased 20% to 30% premium surging the price as much as from the ruling price of per .\n\nAuthorities of Sri Jalakanteswarar temple at Vellore discovered cash worth from the temple Hundi.\n\nThere have also been reports of people circumventing the restrictions imposed on exchange transactions and attempting to convert black money into white by making multiple transactions at different bank branches. People were also getting rid of large amounts of banned currency by sending people in groups to exchange their money at banks. In response, the government announced that it would start marking customers with indelible ink. This was in addition to other measures proposed to ensure that the exchange transactions are carried out only once by each person. On 17 November, the government reduced the exchange amount to to discourage attempts to convert black money into legitimate money.\n\n\nAs soon as the demonetisation was announced, it was observed by the Indian Railways authorities that a large number of people started booking tickets particularly in classes 1A and 2A for the longest distance possible, to get rid of unaccounted for cash. A senior official said, \"On November 13, 42.7 million passengers were nationally booked across all classes. Of these, only 1,209 were 1A and 16,999 for 2A. It is a sharp dip from the number of passengers booked on November 9, when 27,237 passengers had booked tickets in 1A and 69,950 in 2A.\"\n\nThe Railways Ministry and the Railway Board responded swiftly and decided that cancellation and refund of tickets of value ₹10,000 and above will not be allowed by any means involving cash. The payment can only be through cheque/electronic payment. Tickets above ₹10,000 can be refunded by filing ticket deposit receipt only on surrendering the original ticket. A copy of the PAN card must be submitted for any cash transaction above ₹50,000. The railway claimed that since the Railway Board on 10 November imposed a number of restrictions to book and cancel tickets, the number of people booking 1A and 2A tickets came down.\n\n\nAs the use of the demonetised notes had been allowed by the government for the payment of municipal and local body taxes, leading to people using the demonetised ₹500 and ₹1,000 notes to pay large amounts of outstanding and advance taxes. As a result, revenue collections of the local civic bodies jumped. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation reported collecting about in cash payments of outstanding and advance taxes within 4 days.\n\nIncome Tax officials raided multiple branches of Axis Bank and found bank officials involved in acts of money laundering.\n\nPublic servants have very wide discretionary powers offering the opportunity to extort undue payments from companies and ordinary citizens. The awarding of public contracts is notoriously corrupt, especially at the state level. Scandals involving high-level politicians have highlighted the payment of kickbacks in the healthcare, IT and military sectors. The deterioration of the overall efficiency of the government, protection of property rights, ethics and corruption as well as undue influence on government and judicial decisions has resulted in a more difficult business environment.\n\nAccording to Transparency International, Judicial corruption in India is attributable to factors such as \"delays in the disposal of cases, shortage of judges and complex procedures, all of which are exacerbated by a preponderance of new laws\". Over the years there have been numerous allegations against judges, and in 2011 Soumitra Sen, a former judge at the Kolkata High Court became the first judge in India to be impeached by the Rajya Sabha, (Upper House of the Indian Parliament) for misappropriation of funds.\n\nThe 2005 Right to Information Act required government officials to provide information requested by citizens or face punitive action, as well as the computerisation of services and the establishment of vigilance commissions. This considerably reduced corruption and opened up avenues to redress grievances.\n\nRight to Public Services legislation, which has been enacted in 19 states of India, guarantee time bound delivery of services for various public services rendered by the government to citizen and provides mechanisms for punishing the errant public servant who is deficient in providing the service stipulated under the statute. Right to Service legislation is meant to reduce corruption among the government officials and to increase transparency and public accountability.\n\nPublic servants in India can be imprisoned for several years and penalised for corruption under the:\n\nPunishment for bribery in India can range from six months to seven years.\n\nIndia is also a signatory to the United Nations Convention against Corruption since 2005 (ratified 2011). The Convention covers a wide range of acts of corruption and also proposes certain preventive policies.\n\nThe Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013 which came into force from 16 January 2014, seeks to provide for the establishment of the institution of Lokpal to inquire into allegations of corruption against certain public functionaries in India.\n\nWhistle Blowers Protection Act, 2011, which provides a mechanism to investigate alleged corruption and misuse of power by public servants and also protect anyone who exposes alleged wrongdoing in government bodies, projects and offices, has received the assent of the President of India on 9 May 2014, and (as of 2 August) is pending for notification by the Central Government.\n\nAt present there are no legal provisions to check graft in the private sector in India. Government has proposed amendments in existing acts and certain new bills for checking corruption in private sector. Big-ticket corruption is mainly witnessed in the operations of large commercial or corporate entities. In order to prevent bribery on supply side, it is proposed that key managerial personnel of companies' and also the company shall be held liable for offering bribes to gain undue benefits.\n\nThe Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 provides that the properties of corrupt public servants shall be confiscated. However, the Government is considering incorporating provisions for confiscation or forfeiture of the property of corrupt public servants into the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 to make it more self-contained and comprehensive.\n\nA committee headed by the Chairman of Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), has been constituted to examine ways to strengthen laws to curb generation of black money in India, its illegal transfer abroad, and its recovery. \"The Committee shall examine the existing legal and administrative framework to deal with the menace of generation of black money through illegal means including inter-alia the following: 1. Declaring wealth generated illegally as national asset; 2. Enacting/amending laws to confiscate and recover such assets; and 3. Providing for exemplary punishment against its perpetrators.\" (Source: 2013 EY report on Bribery & Corruption)\n\nThe Companies Act, 2013, contains certain provisions to regulate frauds by corporations including increased penalties for frauds, giving more powers to the Serious Fraud Investigation Office, mandatory responsibility of auditors to reveal frauds, and increased responsibilities of independent directors. The Companies Act, 2013 also provides for mandatory vigil mechanisms which allow directors and employees to report concerns and whistleblower protection mechanism for every listed company and any other companies which accepts deposits from public or has taken loans more than 50 crore rupees from banks and financial institutions. This intended to avoid accounting scandals such as the Satyam scandal which have plagued India. It replaces The Companies Act, 1956 which was proven outmoded in terms of handling 21st century problems.\n\nIn 2015, Parliament passed the Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Bill, 2015 to curb and impose penalties on black money hoarded abroad. The Act has received the assent of the President of India on 26 May 2015. It came into effect from 1 July 2015.\n\nThe Directorate General of Income Tax Investigation, Central Vigilance Commission and Central Bureau of Investigation all deal with anti-corruption initiatives. Certain states such as Andhra Pradesh (Anti-Corruption Bureau, Andhra Pradesh) and Karnataka (Lokayukta) also have their own anti-corruption agencies and courts.\n\nAndhra Pradesh's Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) has launched a large scale investigation in the \"cash-for-bail\" scam.\nCBI court judge Talluri Pattabhirama Rao was arrested on 19 June 2012 for taking a bribe to grant bail to former Karnataka Minister Gali Janardhan Reddy, who was allegedly amassing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. Investigation revealed that India Cements (one of India's largest cement companies) had been investing in Reddy's businesses in return for government contracts.\nA case has also been opened against seven other individuals under the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Corruption Act.\n\nA variety of organisations have been created in India to actively fight against corrupt government and business practices. Notable organisations include:\n\nA number of ideas have been in discussion to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of electoral processes in India.\n\nIn a 2004 report on Corruption in India, one of the world's largest audit and compliance firms KPMG notes several issues that encourage corruption in India. The report suggests high taxes and excessive regulation bureaucracy as a major cause; India has high marginal tax rates and numerous regulatory bodies with the power to stop any citizen or business from going about their daily affairs.\n\nThis power of Indian authorities to search and question individuals creates opportunities for corrupt public officials to extract bribes—each individual or business decides if the effort required for due process and the cost of delay is worth paying the bribe demanded. In cases of high taxes, paying off the corrupt official is cheaper than the tax. This, according to the report, is one major cause of corruption in India and 150 other countries across the world. In the real estate industry, the high capital gains tax in India encourages large-scale corruption. The KPMG report claims that the correlation between high real estate taxes and corruption is high in India as it is other countries including the developed economies; this correlation has been true in modern times as well as throughout centuries of human history in various cultures.\n\nThe desire to pay lower taxes than those demanded by the state explains the demand side of corruption. The net result is that the corrupt officials collect bribes, the government fails to collect taxes for its own budget, and corruption grows. The report suggests regulatory reforms, process simplification and lower taxes as means to increase tax receipts and reduce causes of corruption.\n\nIn addition to tax rates and regulatory burdens, the KPMG report claims corruption results from opaque process and paperwork on the part of the government. Lack of transparency allows room for manoeuvre for both demanders and suppliers of corruption. Whenever objective standards and transparent processes are missing, and subjective opinion driven regulators and opaque/hidden processes are present, conditions are ripe for corruption.\n\nVito Tanzi in an International Monetary Fund study suggests that in India, like other countries in the world, corruption is caused by excessive regulations and authorisation requirements, complicated taxes and licensing systems, mandated spending programmes, lack of competitive free markets, monopoly of certain goods and service providers by government controlled institutions, bureaucracy, lack of penalties for corruption of public officials, and lack of transparent laws and processes. A Harvard University study finds these to be some of the causes of corruption and underground economy in India.\n\nIn a study on Bribery and Corruption in India conducted in 2013 by global professional services firm Ernst & Young (EY), a majority of the survey respondents from PE firms said that a company operating in a sector which is perceived as highly corrupt may lose ground when it comes to fair valuation of its business, as investors bargain hard and factor in the cost of corruption at the time of transaction.\n\nAccording to a report by KPMG, \"high-level corruption and scams are now threatening to derail the country's its credibility and [its] economic boom\".\n\nCorruption may lead to further bureaucratic delay and inefficiency if corrupted bureaucrats introduce red tape in order to extort more bribes. Such inadequacies in institutional efficiency could affect growth indirectly by lowering the private marginal product of capital and investment rate. Levine and Renelt showed that investment rate is a robust determinant of economic growth.\n\nBureaucratic inefficiency also affects growth directly through misallocation of investments in the economy. Additionally, corruption results in lower economic growth for a given level of income.\n\nIf corruption levels in India were reduced to levels in developed economies such as Singapore or the United Kingdom, India's GDP growth rate could increase at a higher rate annually. C. K. Prahalad estimates the lost opportunity caused by corruption in terms of investment, growth and jobs for India is over US$50 billion a year.\n\n\nAnti-corruption:\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "41870174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41870174", "title": "Corruption in Tunisia", "text": "Corruption in Tunisia\n\nIt is estimated that Tunisia lost more than US$1 billion per year between 2000 and 2008 due to corruption, bribery, kickbacks, trade mispricing and criminal activities.\n\nThe National Constituent Assembly developed an anti-corruption initiative in December 2012 which aims to establish a national integrity system, to promote the independent National Anti-Corruption Authority, and to boost civil society participation in corruption prevention. However, the government's effort is still considered limited. Corruption is still a serious problem yet it is less pervasive when compared to the neighboring countries.\n\nThe role of middlemen is very important for doing business in Tunisia, and many investors consider that having the right connections when collaborating on business in order to overcome administrative hurdles to investment and public procurement is crucial. State-owned companies or private groups owned by influential families continue to enjoy a privileged position, with close political and administrative ties and easier access to financing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1654632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1654632", "title": "Culture of life", "text": "Culture of life\n\nA culture of life describes a way of life based upon the belief that human life at all stages from conception through natural death is sacred. As such, a culture of life opposes practices destructive to human life at any stage, including abortion, euthanasia, studies and medicines involving embryonic stem cells, and contraception. It also promotes policies that \"lift up the human spirit with compassion and love.\" The term originated in moral theology, especially that of the Catholic Church, and gained popularity after it was used by Pope John Paul II.\n\nIn the United States, politicians such as George W. Bush have used the phrase. In 2004, the Republican Party included a plank in their platform that called for \"Promoting a Culture of Life.\"\n\nThe expression \"culture of life\" entered popular parlance from Pope John Paul II in the 1990s. He used the term in his 1991 encyclical \"Centesimus annus\", and then more fully expanded upon it in the 1995 encyclical \"Evangelium vitae\" (\"Gospel of Life\"):\n\nIn the encyclical, the pope noted that even those who were not Catholic \"can appreciate the intrinsic value of human life.\" He also issued \"a pressing appeal addressed to each and every person, in the name of God: Respect, protect, love, and serve life, every human life! Only in this direction will you find justice, development, true freedom, peace and happiness!\" \n\nJohn Paul linked this to Catholic teaching, where every person is said to have been created in the image and likeness of God and, as such, is intimately loved by God. The Church, then, must build a culture of life that values each person as a person, and not for what they own, do, or produce. It must also protect every human life, especially those that are threatened or weak. It had foundations in earlier church teaching such as Pope Paul VI's 1968 encyclical \"Humanae vitae\", where the Church articulated its position on the defense of life from conception to natural death; therefore disapproving of certain medical procedures that may harm or kill an unborn fetus, which the Church holds to be a person with an inviolable right to life. Catholic hospitals and medical institutions will not perform such procedures. \n\nFollowing the promulgation of \"Evangelium vitae\", advocates of a culture of life founded the Culture of Life Foundation in the United States to promote the concepts behind the Pope's encyclical. Pope John Paul II recognized and blessed the foundation in 1997. In 2005, 68% of White evangelical Protestants in the United States opposed abortion, 58% opposed euthanasia and 15% opposed the death penalty.\n\nEvangelium vitae has been described as the Catholic academic Christopher Kaczor as the \"magna carta for the pro-life movement.\"\n\nOn October 3, 2000, during the U.S. presidential election campaign, then-Texas Governor George W. Bush, a Methodist, cited the term during a televised debate against then Vice President Al Gore. Bush expressed concerns that Mifepristone, then newly approved as an abortifacient pill, would encourage more women to terminate their pregnancies; whereas his goal was to make such terminations rarer and instead to \"promote a culture of life.\" Bush said:\n\nLeonard Mary of the \"Boston Globe\" said that Bush had directly borrowed his language from John Paul II, viewing this as a deliberate strategic attempt to gain political support from \"moderate\" Catholics voters (while not coming out so strongly against abortion rights that it would alienate pro-choice voters). Voters believed that only the Republican Party would build a culture of life in the Unites States, and this helped propel Bush to victory.\n\nSome Catholics, however, criticized Bush for apparent inconsistency between his support of a culture of life and his strong support for the death penalty, which Catholic doctrine permits where there is no other means for society to protect itself. As Governor of Texas, Bush repeatedly authorized executions of convicted murderers. \n\nKristen Day, the executive director of Democrats for Life of America says that \"achieving a culture of life cannot be done by simply voting Republican.\" Day says that \"to be truly pro-life, we must support a broad spectrum of issues including worker's compensation, minimum wage, and education assistance for displaced workers,\" as well as addressing poverty, including a livable wage and health care. Day says that Republicans should broaden their definition of a culture of life beyond simple opposition to abortion, and that to achieve a true culture of life that members of both parties will be needed.\n\nThe 2004 Republican National Convention adopted a platform with a plank titled \"Promoting a Culture of Life.\" The platform's pro-life stance included positions on abortion; access to healthcare despite disability, age, or infirmity; euthanasia; assisted suicide; and promoted research and resources to alleviate the pain of the terminally ill.\n\nThe phrase \"culture of life\" was also invoked during the Terri Schiavo case of March 2005, when the phrase was used in support of legislative and legal efforts to prolong the life of a woman in an alleged persistent vegetative state. It has also been used to promote providing inexpensive medical care for people in impoverished countries.\n\nFollowing the Boston Marathon bombing, the Catholic bishops of Massachusetts opposed the death penalty for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, citing the need to build a culture of life. In their statement, they cited a 2005 document by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, \"A Culture of Life and the Penalty of Death,\" which said \"no matter how heinous the crime, if society can protect itself without ending a human life, it should do so.\"\n\nPope John Paul II also used the opposing term \"culture of death\" in \"Evangelium vitae\" (April 1995):\n\nHe argued that there was \"a war of the powerful against the weak: a life which would require greater acceptance, love and care is considered useless, or held to be an intolerable burden, and is therefore rejected in one way or another.\" Those who are ill, handicapped, or just simply threaten the well being or lifestyle of the more powerful thus become enemies to be eliminated. John Paul recognized this both between individuals and between peoples and states.\n\nHe added his belief that every time an \"innocent life\" is taken (dating back to the time of Cain and Abel) that it was \"a violation of the ‘spiritual’ kinship uniting mankind in one great family, in which all share the same fundamental good: equal personal dignity.\" Any threat to the human person, including wars, class conflict, civil unrest, ecological recklessness, and sexual irresponsibility, should therefore be regarded in his opinion as part of the \"culture of death.\"\n\nWithout morals, Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor said, \"it is the strong who decide the fate of the weak,\" and \"human beings therefore become instruments of other human beings... We are already on that road: for what else is the termination of millions of lives in the womb since the Abortion Act was introduced, and embryo selection on the basis of gender and genes?”\n\nAdvocates of a culture of life argue that a culture of death results in political, economic, or eugenic murder. They point to historical events like the USSR's Great Purges, the Nazi Holocaust, China's Great Leap Forward and Pol Pot's Khmer Rouge as examples of devaluation of human life taken to an extreme conclusion. The term is used by those in the pro-life movement to refer to supporters of embryonic stem cell research, legalized abortion, and euthanasia. Pro-life advocates from the Center for Bio-Ethical Reform compare their opponents to the perpetrators of the Nazi Holocaust. They say that their opponents share the same disregard for human life.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "987593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=987593", "title": "Danis Tanović", "text": "Danis Tanović\n\nDanis Tanović (born 20 February 1969) is a Bosnian film director and screenwriter. Tanović is best known for having directed and written the script for the 2001 Bosnian movie \"No Man's Land\" which won him the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.\n\nTanović was born in Zenica on 20 February 1969. Tanović was raised in Sarajevo, where he also received his primary and secondary education. He also attended the University of Sarajevo Music Conservatory, where he played the piano.\n\nAs a young adult, Tanović decided to study at the Academy of Performing Arts in Sarajevo. However, due to the Siege of Sarajevo, Tanović was forced to stop his studies in 1992.\n\nImmediately after war broke out, Tanović formed a film crew that followed the Army of Bosnia and Herzegovina, going on dangerous missions. The material that Tanović and the film crew produced has since been used in numerous films and news reports about the Siege of Sarajevo and the Bosnian war.\n\nIn late 1994, Tanović left the film crew he had worked with for over two years. A year later, Tanović decided to resume his studies, this time in Brussels, the capital of Belgium. In 1997, Tanović completed his studies in Brussels, graduating at the top of his class. During his studies he made several documentary films.\n\nShortly after, Tanović began his first movie project, entitled \"No Man's Land\". He wrote and directed the movie, which was completed in 2001 and premiered at the Cannes Film Festival that same year. \"No Man's Land\" went on to win the Award for Best Screenplay (\"Prix du scénario\") at Cannes, followed by numerous awards including the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film in 2001, the European Film Academy Award for Best Screenplay, the César for the Best First Feature Film, the André Cavens Award for Best Film in 2001, and the Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 2002.\n\nTanović was a member of the jury at the 2003 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nHis second feature project was \"L'Enfer\", completed in 2005, from the screenplay by the late Krzysztof Kieslowski and Krzysztof Piesiewicz. The film marked the second installment in the Polish duo's projected trilogy \"Heaven\" (filmed by Tom Tykwer in 2002), \"Hell and Purgatory\". Inspired by Euripides' \"Medea\", \"L'Enfer\" explores the lives of three sisters, \"each locked in her own unhappiness, nursing a secret flower of misery, the seed for which was planted by their late father with a terrible incident in their girlhood\" (from a review by Peter Bradshaw). The film received mixed reviews.\n\nTanović announced in March 2008 that he would be founding a political party with his friend, director Dino Mustafić, called Our Party, which would start contesting elections with the local elections in October 2008. He stated his motivations as wanting to bring political change to the country; his announcement was received positively. \n\nHis 2010 film \"Cirkus Columbia\" was selected as the Bosnian entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 83rd Academy Awards, but it didn't make the final shortlist.\n\nIn June 2011, he was bestowed with an \"honoris causa\" doctorate by the University of Sarajevo.\nHis 2013 film \"An Episode in the Life of an Iron Picker\" premiered in competition at the 63rd Berlin International Film Festival where it won two prizes: Silver Bear for Best Actor and the Jury Grand Prix.\n\nHis latest film \"Death in Sarajevo\" won Jury Grand Prix at the 66th Berlin International Film Festival. It has also won FIPRESCI Award for the best film in competition.\n\nTanović holds joint Bosnian and Belgian citizenship and lives in Sarajevo with his wife and five children. He lived in Paris until 2007.\n\nCurrently, he works as a professor of film directing at Academy of Performing Arts in Sarajevo.\n"}
{"id": "1815013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1815013", "title": "Danish Crown Regalia", "text": "Danish Crown Regalia\n\nDanish Crown Regalia are the symbols of the Danish monarchy. They consist of three crowns, a Sceptre (symbolizing supreme authority), Globus cruciger (an orb symbolizing the earthly realm surmounted by a cross), the Sword of state and an Ampulla (symbolizing anointing of monarchs).\nThe Danish Royal Regalia are kept in the treasury at Rosenborg Castle. The oldest of these is Christian III's sword of state from 1551. They further include King Christian IV's diamond; pearl- and gold-embroidered saddles; objects carved from ivory and rock-crystal; lapidary pieces of precious stones, and brooches in the form of fantastic animals.\nDuring the time of the elective monarchs, the clergy and nobility placed the crown on the king's head at the coronation ceremony.\nAfter the introduction of absolutism in 1660, the crowning of the king was replaced by anointment, for which the king arrived in the church wearing the crown and was consecrated to his calling by being anointed with oil. For the anointing of Christian V, a new crown was made along with the Throne Chair of Denmark of narwhal teeth (supposedly the mythical unicorn's horn) and three silver lions, the latter created by Ferdinand Küblich (1664-1687). This was inspired by the biblical description of King Solomon's throne, which was said to be composed of unicorn's horn and gold and guarded by twelve golden lions.\n\nWith the 1849 Constitution, anointing was discontinued and since then the regalia have only been used on the occasion of a deceased monarch's \"Castrum doloris\" ('camp of woe') where the crown is placed on the coffin, the other regalia laid at casket's foot, and the casket surrounded by the three lions. The lions were formerly also displayed in Parliament during the annual opening session, but this tradition was discontinued almost 100 years ago. They were also displayed before the throne in the throne room of Christiansborg Palace when the Danish kings granted audiences on particularly formal occasions.\n\nThe \"crown jewels\" refer to four sets (parures) of jewellery owned by the state for an incumbent queen and is still worn by the Queen of Denmark.\n\nThe royal regalia, which symbolised the monarch's authority to rule, includes the crown of King Christian IV, which is a fine example of Renaissance guildwork, the better known crown of King Christian V and a smaller crown for the king's consort. The Royal Collection has other important items and jewels, as well as precious prayer-books, and items belonging to the Order of the Elephant and the Order of the Dannebrog (such as the large diamond and pearl star of the Order of the Elephant worn on the coronation mantle).\n\nThe term \"old regalia\" is used to describe the crown regalia used prior to the introduction of absolute monarchy in 1660.\n\nThe crown was fashioned by Dirich Fyring (1580-1603) at Odense assisted by the Nuremberg goldsmith Corvinianus Saur during the years 1595-1596 for the coronation of Christian IV. It is made of gold, enamel, table cut gemstones and pearls and weighs 2895 g.\nThe circlet is ornamented with six sets of table cut diamonds between two large round pearls with enameled putti on either side. Between each of these sets are star-like ornaments of triangular and square table cut diamonds. On the upper rim of the circlet are six large and six small arabesque-like points. At the center of each of the larger points is an enameled allegorical figure of one of the king's ruling functions and virtues. The three points above the king's forehead and behind each of his ears bears a \"pelican in her piety.\" The point on the right of the king's forehead bears a representation of Fortitude riding a lion, while that on the left bears the image of Justice as a woman holding a sword and a pair of scales. The point above the back of the king's neck bears the traditional image of Charity as a mother suckling her child. On the inside these points are decorated with the coats of arms of various regions of the realm. The six smaller points each bears a star-like design in triangular and square table diamonds with a large pear shaped pearl at its top.\n\nOriginally an open crown, in 1648 it was closed with arches and an orb and cross, but Christian V later removed these again, using the diamonds and gold from them in the making of his own crown. It was used for the last time at the 1648 coronation of Frederick III.\n\nThe sword of state of Christian III was made in 1551 by Johann Siebe. It is made of gilded silver and decorated with enamel and table cut gemstones. Prior to the introduction of absolute monarchy, the sword was the first of the regalia presented to the king.\n\nThe sword was used for accolades and has a blue enamel grip decorated with diamonds.\n\nThis crown is the official crown that was used for the anointments of Danish absolute monarchs until the end of absolutism in 1849. The first Danish absolute monarch Frederick III wanted his son and heir-apparent, the later Christian V, to be in possession of the visible symbols of power at the moment he himself died and his son inherited the title. Therefore, he secretly commissioned several crown regalia, including a crown, to surround the anointing of the absolute monarchs with as much glory as possible.\n\nThe crown was first used for the coronation of Christian V and the last time for the coronation of Christian VIII in 1840. Today the crown is used as a symbol of the monarchy and the state. Its only ceremonial use is when it is placed on the Castrum doloris of a deceased monarch.\n\nThe crown is the visible sign of royal power and was made by the royal goldsmith Paul Kurtz in Copenhagen in the years 1670-1671. As the crown of the first absolute monarch it was made as a closed crown to look different than the open crowns of the elected kings, possibly inspired by the imperial crown of Charlemagne.\n\nThe circlet of the crown is divided in four by two large sapphires, a flat one that can be traced back to Frederick I at the forehead of the wearer (presumably a gift to his father, Christian I, from Galeazzo Maria Sforza, the Duke of Milan in 1474) and a thicker one at the back of the head and by a spinel at one side and a garnet at the other. The four curved segments of the circlet between these stones is decorated with volutes made of table cut diamonds.\n\nOn the upper edge of the circlet are eight acanthus leaves, four larger and four smaller ones. These acanthus leaves are decorated with diamond-studded ribs. The front acanthus leaf is decorated with a large table cut diamond with Christian V's royal cypher visible behind it. Attached to the backs of each of these acanthus leaves by screws are narrow diamond-studded half arches that meet at the top of the crown to support a sky blue-enameled sphere decorated with diamonds and with a diamond-studded cross on top. On the top of this cross is a cabochon ruby. The crown weighs 2080 g.\nThe queen-consort Charlotte Amalie of Hesse-Kassel was not crowned and did not wear a crown either because she belonged to the reformed church and was thus not a member of the Church of Denmark or because it was thought unnecessary to crown the queen since she had the right to wear any regalia through her marriage with the king.\n\nHowever all the following queens consorts of the absolute monarchs were crowned. Louise of Mecklenburg-Güstrow, the queen of king Frederick IV, was crowned with a queen's crown made for her, which was also used by Frederick IV to crown her successor Anna Sophie Reventlow. However Sophia Magdalen of Brandenburg-Kulmbach, the queen of king Christian VI, did not want to use the crown worn by her predecessor and had a new crown made by royal jeweler Frederik Fabritius (1683-1755) in 1731. This crown is made like that of Christian V but only taller and more slender. It is decorated with table cut diamonds that are assumed to come from the 1648 crown of Queen Sophie Amalie.\n\nThe sceptre was made by an unknown Copenhagen goldsmith for the coronation of Frederick III in 1648. It is made of gold and ends in an elongated enameled knob at the bottom decorated with diamond-studded ribs and an enameled lily at the top with a royal crown above it.\n\n The Globus cruciger symbolizes Christian world supremacy. It is a golden globe decorated with a band of enamel and diamonds. On top of this is a half-circle of enamel and diamonds. It is topped by a diamond-studded cross. It was made in Hamburg for the coronation of Frederick III in 1648.\n\nThe sword of state symbolizes the protecting, punishing and judging authority of the king. The sword was originally a wedding present from Christian IV to the 1643 wedding of Frederick III. It was used for the anointing of all absolute monarchs and probably also for the coronation of Frederick III.\n\nIts cross-guard and grip is decorated with gemstones. The scabbard has a diamond-studded Chape, is covered in red velvet and is decorated with the coats of arms of different parts of the realm. Above each coat of arms is a small diamond-studded crown.\n\nThe ampulla, used to contain the anointing oil, is a gold cylinder and its lid enameled with a variety of flowers and studded with table cut diamonds made by an unknown Copenhagen goldsmith for the coronation of Frederick III in 1648.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40283779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40283779", "title": "Danish Institute for Parties and Democracy", "text": "Danish Institute for Parties and Democracy\n\nDanish Institute for Parties and Democracy (DIPD) was established by the Danish Parliament in May 2010. Its overall purpose is to strengthen and complement the Danish democracy assistance, particularly through support to political parties and multi-party platforms in developing countries.\n\nDanish Institute for Parties and Democracy provides democracy assistance through partnership-based projects in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East. The institute works to develop and further democratic institutions in political systems and civil society focusing on media, young people, elections, gender and human rights. DIPD seek to bring together individuals, groups and political parties to share ideas, knowledge and experiences and support projects that strengthen a democratic culture.\n\nThe Board is the supreme decision-making body of DIPD. Of the 15 members, 9 are appointed by the Danish Parliament, 2 by The Danish Youth Council, and finally the Minister for Development Cooperation, Rektorkollegiet, NGO FORUM and the Danish Centre for International Studies and Human Rights appoint one member each. Amongst its members, the board selects a chairman. The members are appointed for a four-year period with the possibility of re-election. The daily management of the institute is carried out by a Director appointed by the Board. The current Director is Bjørn Førde.\n\n"}
{"id": "18016007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18016007", "title": "Exame Nacional do Ensino Médio", "text": "Exame Nacional do Ensino Médio\n\nExame Nacional do Ensino Médio () (Enem ) () is a non-mandatory, standardized Brazilian national exam, which evaluates high school students in Brazil. The ENEM is the most important exam of its kind in Brazil, with more than 8.6 million registered candidates in 2016. It is the second largest in the world after the National Higher Education Entrance Examination, the entrance examination of higher education in China. \n\nAfter 2009 its importance for students who want to attend college has increased, since the exam has been used both as an admission test for enrollment in 23 federal universities and 26 educational institutes, as well as for certification for a high school degree. The test is also used by people desiring to gain points in the University for All Program (Programa Universidade para Todos, or ProUni), a federal scholarship program.\n\nThe ENEM is held in early November, with a small number of students taking the test in early December. The test starts at the same time across Brazil, with the starting time being based in Federal District. This results in the ENEM starting at four different times according to the local time zones, ranging from 10:30 am in the state of Acre to 1:30 pm in the Federal District and states of the South and Southeast regions.\n\nUntil 2008, the exam consisted of two parts: a 63 question multiple-choice test on various subjects (Portuguese, History, Geography, Math, Physics, Chemistry and Biology) and a composition. \n\nSince 2009, the exam has been composed of 180 multiple-choice questions, equally divided into four areas of knowledge: languages, codes and related technologies (plus a written essay); human sciences and related technologies; natural sciences and related technologies; and mathematics and its technologies. Due to the length of the test, it is applied in two consecutive sundays, the first lasting 300 minutes, and the second lasting 330.\n\nEven though its purpose is to be a national evaluation exam, students can use their scores to be admitted to a university, though not every university accepts it as the only admission exam. Usually private institutions, such as PUC-Rio, a major private Brazilian university, accept Enem as an admission exam. Others, such as University of São Paulo and Faculdade Cásper Líbero use the student's score as supplement to their admission credentials, depending on the student's performance.\n\nSince 2009, most of Brazil's federal universities have used ENEM as part of their admission exams, either as the entirety of the exam, the first level, or as a way of selecting potential candidates.\n\nOn October 1, 2009, it was announced that the test, which was supposed to take place on October 3 and 4, would be cancelled and postponed to another date within a 45-day period. The decision was made by the Brazilian Ministry of Education after the original test was offered for sale to a Brazilian newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo for R$ 500,000 (some US$ 278,000). After contacting the source, who stated that he obtained the test via a person from Inep (an institute of the Ministry of Education), the newspaper examined the exam. and the minister of education, Fernando Haddad, confirmed the leak was of the official exam. At that time the Ministry of Education decided to move the exam to the beginning of December, in accordance with exam periods in universities. The decision was not implemented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25646385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25646385", "title": "Femmes-Caïmans", "text": "Femmes-Caïmans\n\nFemmes-Caïmans was a women's organization in the Congo-Brazzaville, the women's wing of the UDDIA party led by Fulbert Youlou. Youlou had assisted the funding of the organization in 1956. The organization was named after the cayman, which was the symbol of UDDIA. Pauline Madieta was the president of \"Femmes-Caïmans\". \n\n\"Femmes-Caïmans\" were amongst the most active political organizations in Brazzaville during 1957-1960, and was able to recruit illiterate women. As of 1960, the organization had around 250 members in Brazzaville.\n"}
{"id": "54118501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54118501", "title": "Good Neighbor Council", "text": "Good Neighbor Council\n\nThe Good Neighbor Council was an effort in North Carolina proposed by Governor Terry Sanford to fight Racial segregation and encourage the employment of blacks in the state. David S. Coltrane was the first chairman and director of the Good Neighbor Council.\n\nOn January 18, 1963, Governor Terry Sanford created the Good Neighbor Council to help ease racial tensions that were building in the state because of civil rights struggles and integration issues. \nThe purpose of the councils was two-fold: to encourage the employment of qualified people without regard to race; and to encourage youth to become better trained and qualified for employment.\n\nGovernor Sanford established this council on January 13, 1968, and appointed David S. Coltrane as the first Chairman and Executive Director. He held this position until his death in 1968.\n\nLocal branches of the Good Neighbor Council were initially formed in Alamance County, North Carolina, Albemarle, North Carolina, Asheville, North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, Charlotte, North Carolina, Dunn, North Carolina, Durham, North Carolina, Elizabeth City, North Carolina, Fayetteville, North Carolina, Gastonia, North Carolina, Goldsboro, North Carolina, Greensboro, North Carolina, Greenville, North Carolina, Hickory, North Carolina, High Point, North Carolina, Kinston, North Carolina, Laurinburg, North Carolina, Lexington, North Carolina, Mooresville, North Carolina, Mount Airy, North Carolina, Oxford, North Carolina, Raleigh, North Carolina, Rockingham, North Carolina, Roxboro, North Carolina, Rocky Mount, North Carolina, Salisbury, North Carolina, Sanford, North Carolina, Shelby, North Carolina, Smithfield, North Carolina, Thomasville, North Carolina, Wadesboro, North Carolina, Warrenton, North Carolina, Whiteville, North Carolina, Wilmington, North Carolina, Williamston, North Carolina, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and Wilson, North Carolina.\nThe Good Neighbor Council evolved into the state's North Carolina Human Relations Council, now North Carolina Human Relations Commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "71262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71262", "title": "Great Leap Forward", "text": "Great Leap Forward\n\nThe Great Leap Forward () of the People's Republic of China (PRC) was an economic and social campaign by the Communist Party of China (CPC) from 1958 to 1962. The campaign was led by Chairman Mao Zedong and aimed to rapidly transform the country from an agrarian economy into a socialist society through rapid industrialization and collectivization. However, it is widely considered to have caused the Great Chinese Famine.\n\nChief changes in the lives of rural Chinese included the incremental introduction of mandatory agricultural collectivization. Private farming was prohibited, and those engaged in it were persecuted and labeled counter-revolutionaries. Restrictions on rural people were enforced through public struggle sessions and social pressure, although people also experienced forced labor. Rural industrialization, officially a priority of the campaign, saw \"its development... aborted by the mistakes of the Great Leap Forward.\"\n\nIt is widely regarded by historians that The Great Leap resulted in tens of millions of deaths. A lower-end estimate is 18 million, while extensive research by Chinese historian Yu Xiguang suggests the death toll from the movement is closer to 55.6 million. Fellow historian Frank Dikötter asserts that \"coercion, terror, and systematic violence were the foundation of the Great Leap Forward\" and it \"motivated one of the most deadly mass killings of human history\".\n\nThe years of the Great Leap Forward saw economic regression, with 1958 through 1962 being one of two periods between 1953 and 1976 in which China's economy shrank. Political economist Dwight Perkins argues, \"enormous amounts of investment produced only modest increases in production or none at all. ... In short, the Great Leap was a very expensive disaster.\"\n\nIn subsequent conferences in March 1960 and May 1962, the negative effects of the Great Leap Forward were studied by the CPC, and Mao was criticized in the party conferences. Moderate Party members like President Liu Shaoqi and Deng Xiaoping rose to power, and Chairman Mao was marginalized within the party, leading him to initiate the Cultural Revolution in 1966.\n\nIn October 1949 after the defeat of the Kuomintang (Chinese Nationalist Party, pinyin: Guomindang), the Chinese Communist Party proclaimed the establishment of the People's Republic of China. Immediately, landlords and wealthier peasants had their land holdings forcibly redistributed to poorer peasants. In the agricultural sectors, crops deemed by the Party to be \"full of evil\", such as opium, were destroyed and replaced with crops such as rice.\n\nWithin the Party, there was a major debate about redistribution. A moderate faction within the party and Politburo member Liu Shaoqi argued that change should be gradual and any collectivization of the peasantry should wait until industrialization, which could provide the agricultural machinery for mechanized farming. A more radical faction led by Mao Zedong argued that the best way to finance industrialization was for the government to take control of agriculture, thereby establishing a monopoly over grain distribution and supply. This would allow the state to buy at a low price and sell much higher, thus raising the capital necessary for the industrialization of the country.\n\nBefore 1949, peasants had farmed their own small pockets of land and observed traditional practices—festivals, banquets, and paying homage to ancestors. It was realized that Mao's policy of using a state monopoly on agriculture to finance industrialization would be unpopular with the peasants. Therefore, it was proposed that the peasants should be brought under Party control by the establishment of agricultural collectives which would also facilitate the sharing of tools and draft animals.\n\nThis policy was gradually pushed through between 1949 and 1958 in response to immediate policy needs, first by establishing \"mutual aid teams\" of 5–15 households, then in 1953 \"elementary agricultural cooperatives\" of 20–40 households, then from 1956 in \"higher co-operatives\" of 100–300 families. From 1954 onward peasants were encouraged to form and join collective-farming associations, which would supposedly increase their efficiency without robbing them of their own land or restricting their livelihoods.\n\nBy 1958 private ownership was entirely abolished and households all over China were forced into state-operated communes. Mao insisted that the communes must produce more grain for the cities and earn foreign exchange from exports. These reforms (sometimes now referred to as \"The Great Leap Forward\") were generally unpopular with the peasants and usually implemented by summoning them to meetings and making them stay there for days and sometimes weeks until they \"voluntarily\" agreed to join the collective.\n\nApart from progressive taxation on each household's harvest, the state introduced a system of compulsory state purchases of grain at fixed prices to build up stockpiles for famine-relief and meet the terms of its trade agreements with the Soviet Union. Together, taxation and compulsory purchases accounted for 30% of the harvest by 1957, leaving very little surplus. Rationing was also introduced in the cities to curb 'wasteful consumption' and encourage savings (which were deposited in state-owned banks and thus became available for investment), and although food could be purchased from state-owned retailers the market price was higher than that for which it had been purchased. This too was done in the name of discouraging excessive consumption.\n\nBesides these economic changes the Party implemented major social changes in the countryside including the banishing of all religious and mystic institutions and ceremonies, replacing them with political meetings and propaganda sessions. Attempts were made to enhance rural education and the status of women (allowing them to initiate divorce if they desired) and ending foot-binding, child marriage and opium addiction. The old system of internal passports (the \"hukou\") was introduced in 1956, preventing inter-county travel without appropriate authorization. Highest priority was given to the urban proletariat for whom a welfare state was created.\n\nThe first phase of collectivization resulted in only modest improvements in output. Famine along the mid-Yangzi was averted in 1956 through the timely allocation of food-aid, but in 1957 the Party's response was to increase the proportion of the harvest collected by the state to insure against further disasters. Moderates within the Party, including Zhou Enlai, argued for a reversal of collectivization on the grounds that claiming the bulk of the harvest for the state had made the people's food-security dependent upon the constant, efficient, and transparent functioning of the government.\n\nIn 1957 Mao responded to the tensions in the Party by promoting free speech and criticism under the Hundred Flowers Campaign. In retrospect, some have come to argue that this was a ploy to allow critics of the regime, primarily intellectuals but also low ranking members of the party critical of the agricultural policies, to identify themselves.\n\nBy the completion of the first 5 Year Economic Plan in 1957, Mao had come to doubt that the path to socialism that had been taken by the Soviet Union was appropriate for China. He was critical of Khrushchev's reversal of Stalinist policies and alarmed by the uprisings that had taken place in East Germany, Poland and Hungary, and the perception that the USSR was seeking \"peaceful coexistence\" with the Western powers. Mao had become convinced that China should follow its own path to communism. According to Jonathan Mirsky, a historian and journalist specializing in Chinese affairs, China's isolation from most of the rest of the world, along with the Korean War, had accelerated Mao's attacks on his perceived domestic enemies. It led him to accelerate his designs to develop an economy where the regime would get maximum benefit from rural taxation.\n\nIn November 1957, to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the October Revolution, party leaders of the communist countries gathered in Moscow. The first Secretary of the Central Committee Nikita Khrushchev proposed a goal to not only catch up with but exceed the United States in industrial output in the next 15 years through peaceful competition.\n\nMao Zedong was so inspired by the slogan that China put forward its own objective: to catch up with and surpass the UK in 15 years.\n\nComrade Khrushchev has told us, the Soviet Union 15 years later will surpass the United States of America. I can also say, 15 years later, we may catch up with or exceed the UK.\n\nThe Great Leap Forward campaign began during the period of the Second Five Year Plan which was scheduled to run from 1958 to 1963, though the campaign itself was discontinued by 1961. Mao unveiled the Great Leap Forward at a meeting in January 1958 in Nanjing.\n\nThe central idea behind the Great Leap was that rapid development of China's agricultural and industrial sectors should take place in parallel. The hope was to industrialize by making use of the massive supply of cheap labour and avoid having to import heavy machinery. The government also sought to avoid both social stratification and technical bottlenecks involved in the Soviet model of development, but sought political rather than technical solutions to do so. Distrusting technical experts, Mao and the party sought to replicate the strategies used in its 1930s regrouping in Yan'an following the Long March: \"mass mobilization, social leveling, attacks on bureaucratism, [and] disdain for material obstacles.\" Mao advocated that a further round of collectivization modeled on the USSR's \"Third Period\" was necessary in the countryside where the existing collectives would be merged into huge People's Communes.\n\nAn experimental commune was established at Chayashan in Henan in April 1958. Here for the first time private plots were entirely abolished and communal kitchens were introduced. At the Politburo meetings in August 1958, it was decided that these people's communes would become the new form of economic and political organization throughout rural China. By the end of the year approximately 25,000 communes had been set up, with an average of 5,000 households each. The communes were relatively self-sufficient co-operatives where wages and money were replaced by work points.\n\nBased on his fieldwork, Ralph A. Thaxton Jr. describes the people's communes as a form of \"apartheid system\" for Chinese farm households. The commune system was aimed at maximizing production for provisioning the cities and constructing offices, factories, schools, and social insurance systems for urban-dwelling workers, cadres and officials. Citizens in rural areas who criticized the system were labeled \"dangerous.\" Escape was also difficult or impossible, and those who attempted were subjected to \"party-orchestrated public struggle,\" which further jeopardized their survival. Besides agriculture, communes also incorporated some light industry and construction projects.\n\nMao saw grain and steel production as the key pillars of economic development. He forecast that within 15 years of the start of the Great Leap, China's industrial output would surpass that of the UK. In the August 1958 Politburo meetings, it was decided that steel production would be set to double within the year, most of the increase coming through backyard steel furnaces. Major investments in larger state enterprises were made: 1,587, 1,361, and 1,815 medium- and large-scale state projects were started in 1958, 1959, and 1960 respectively, more in each year than in the first Five Year Plan.\n\nMillions of Chinese became state workers as a consequence of this industrial investment: in 1958, 21 million were added to non-agricultural state payrolls, and total state employment reached a peak of 50.44 million in 1960, more than doubling the 1957 level; the urban population swelled by 31.24 million people. These new workers placed major stress on China's food-rationing system, which led to increased and unsustainable demands on rural food production.\n\nDuring this rapid expansion, coordination suffered and material shortages were frequent, resulting in \"a huge rise in the wage bill, largely for construction workers, but no corresponding increase in manufactured goods.\" Facing a massive deficit, the government cut industrial investment from 38.9 to 7.1 billion yuan from 1960 to 1962 (an 82% decrease; the 1957 level was 14.4 billion).\n\nWith no personal knowledge of metallurgy, Mao encouraged the establishment of small backyard steel furnaces in every commune and in each urban neighborhood. Mao was shown an example of a backyard furnace in Hefei, Anhui in September 1958 by provincial first secretary Zeng Xisheng. The unit was claimed to be manufacturing high quality steel.\n\nHuge efforts on the part of peasants and other workers were made to produce steel out of scrap metal. To fuel the furnaces, the local environment was denuded of trees and wood taken from the doors and furniture of peasants' houses. Pots, pans, and other metal artifacts were requisitioned to supply the \"scrap\" for the furnaces so that the wildly optimistic production targets could be met. Many of the male agricultural workers were diverted from the harvest to help the iron production as were the workers at many factories, schools, and even hospitals. Although the output consisted of low quality lumps of pig iron which was of negligible economic worth, Mao had a deep distrust of intellectuals who could have pointed this out and instead placed his faith in the power of the mass mobilization of the peasants.\n\nMoreover, the experience of the intellectual classes following the Hundred Flowers Campaign silenced those aware of the folly of such a plan. According to his private doctor, Li Zhisui, Mao and his entourage visited traditional steel works in Manchuria in January 1959 where he found out that high quality steel could only be produced in large-scale factories using reliable fuel such as coal. However, he decided not to order a halt to the backyard steel furnaces so as not to dampen the revolutionary enthusiasm of the masses. The program was only quietly abandoned much later in that year.\n\nSubstantial effort was expended during the Great Leap Forward on large-scale, but often poorly planned, capital construction projects, such as irrigation works built without input from trained engineers. Mao was well aware of the human cost of these water conservancy campaigns. In early 1958, while listening to a report on irrigation in Jiangsu, he mentioned that:\n\nWu Zhipu claims he can move 30 billion cubic metres; I think 30,000 people will die. Zeng Xisheng has said that he will move 20 billion cubic metres, and I think that 20,000 people will die. Weiqing only promises 600 million cubic metres, maybe nobody will die.\n\nThough Mao \"criticized the excessive use of corvée for large-scale water conservancy projects\" in late 1958, mass mobilization on irrigation works continued unabated for the next several years, and claimed the lives of hundreds of thousands of exhausted, starving villagers. The inhabitants of Qingshui and Gansu referred to these projects as the \"killing fields.\"\n\nOn the communes, a number of radical and controversial agricultural innovations were promoted at the behest of Mao. Many of these were based on the ideas of now discredited Soviet agronomist Trofim Lysenko and his followers. The policies included close cropping, whereby seeds were sown far more densely than normal on the incorrect assumption that seeds of the same class would not compete with each other. Deep plowing (up to 2 m deep) was encouraged on the mistaken belief that this would yield plants with extra large root systems. Moderately productive land was left unplanted with the belief that concentrating manure and effort on the most fertile land would lead to large per-acre productivity gains. Altogether, these untested innovations generally led to decreases in grain production rather than increases.\n\nMeanwhile, local leaders were pressured into falsely reporting ever-higher grain production figures to their political superiors. Participants at political meetings remembered production figures being inflated up to 10 times actual production amounts as the race to please superiors and win plaudits—like the chance to meet Mao himself—intensified. The state was later able to force many production groups to sell more grain than they could spare based on these false production figures.\n\nThe ban on private holdings ruined peasant life at its most basic level, according to Mirsky. Villagers were unable to secure enough food to go on living because they were deprived by the commune system of their traditional means of being able to rent, sell, or use their land as collateral for loans. In one village, once the commune was operational the Party boss and his colleagues \"swung into manic action, herding villagers into the fields to sleep and to work intolerable hours, and forcing them to walk, starving, to distant additional projects.\"\n\nEdward Friedman, a political scientist at the University of Wisconsin, Paul Pickowicz, a historian at the University of California, San Diego, and Mark Selden, a sociologist at Binghamton University, wrote about the dynamic of interaction between the Party and villagers:\n\nBeyond attack, beyond question, was the systemic and structured dynamic of the socialist state that intimidated and impoverished millions of patriotic and loyal villagers.\n\nThe authors present a similar picture to Thaxton in depicting the Communist Party's destruction of the traditions of Chinese villagers. Traditionally prized local customs were deemed signs of \"feudalism\" to be extinguished, according to Mirsky. \"Among them were funerals, weddings, local markets, and festivals. The Party thus destroyed \"much that gave meaning to Chinese lives. These private bonds were social glue. To mourn and to celebrate is to be human. To share joy, grief, and pain is humanizing.\" Failure to participate in the CPC's political campaigns—though the aims of such campaigns were often conflicting—\"could result in detention, torture, death, and the suffering of entire families.\"\n\nPublic criticism sessions were often used to intimidate the peasants into obeying local cadres; they increased the death rate of the famine in several ways, according to Thaxton. \"In the first case, blows to the body caused internal injuries that, in combination with physical emaciation and acute hunger, could induce death.\" In one case, after a peasant stole two cabbages from the common fields, the thief was publicly criticized for half a day. He collapsed, fell ill, and never recovered. Others were sent to labor camps.\n\nFrank Dikötter writes that beatings with sticks was the most common method used by local cadres and roughly half of all cadres regularly pummeled or caned people. Other cadres devised harsher means to humiliate and torture those who failed to keep up. As mass starvation set in, ever greater violence had to be inflicted in order to coerce malnourished people to labor in the fields. Victims were buried alive, thrown bound into ponds, stripped naked and forced to labor in the middle of winter, doused in boiling water, forced to ingest excrement and urine, and subjected to mutilation (hair ripped out, noses and ears lopped off). In Guangdong, some cadres injected salt water into their victims with needles normally reserved for cattle. Around 6 to 8% of those who died during the Great Leap Forward were tortured to death or summarily killed.\n\nBenjamin Valentino notes that \"communist officials sometimes tortured and killed those accused of failing to meet their grain quota.\"\n\nHowever, J. G. Mahoney, Professor of Liberal Studies and East Asian Studies at Grand Valley State University, has said that \"there is too much diversity and dynamism in the country for one work to capture ... rural China as if it were one place.\" Mahoney describes an elderly man in rural Shanxi who recalls Mao fondly, saying \"Before Mao we sometimes ate leaves, after liberation we did not.\" Regardless, Mahoney points out that Da Fo villagers recall the Great Leap as a period of famine and death, and among those who survived in Da Fo were precisely those who could digest leaves.\n\nThe initial impact of the Great Leap Forward was discussed at the Lushan Conference in July/August 1959. Although many of the more moderate leaders had reservations about the new policy, the only senior leader to speak out openly was Marshal Peng Dehuai. Mao responded to Peng's criticism of the Great Leap by dismissing Peng from his post as Defence Minister, denouncing Peng (who came from a poor peasant family) and his supporters as \"bourgeois,\" and launching a nationwide campaign against \"rightist opportunism.\" Peng was replaced by Lin Biao, who began a systematic purge of Peng's supporters from the military.\n\nThe failure of agricultural policies, the movement of farmers from agricultural to industrial work, and weather conditions led to millions of deaths from severe famine. Many also died from quota-based executions instituted by government officials. The economy, which had improved since the end of the civil war, was devastated. In response to the severe conditions, there was resistance among the populace.\n\nThe effects on the upper levels of government in response to the disaster were complex, with Mao purging the Minister of National Defense Peng Dehuai in 1959, the temporary promotion of Lin Biao, Liu Shaoqi, and Deng Xiaoping, and Mao losing some power and prestige following the Great Leap Forward, which led him to launch the Cultural Revolution in 1966.\nDespite the harmful agricultural innovations, the weather in 1958 was very favorable and the harvest promised to be good. Unfortunately, the amount of labour diverted to steel production and construction projects meant that much of the harvest was left to rot uncollected in some areas. This problem was exacerbated by a devastating locust swarm, which was caused when their natural predators were killed as part of the Great Sparrow Campaign.\n\nAlthough actual harvests were reduced, local officials, under tremendous pressure from central authorities to report record harvests in response to the innovations, competed with each other to announce increasingly exaggerated results. These were used as a basis for determining the amount of grain to be taken by the State to supply the towns and cities, and to export. This left barely enough for the peasants, and in some areas, starvation set in. A 1959 drought and flooding from the Yellow River in the same year also contributed to famine.\n\nDuring 1958–1960 China continued to be a substantial net exporter of grain, despite the widespread famine experienced in the countryside, as Mao sought to maintain face and convince the outside world of the success of his plans. Foreign aid was refused. When the Japanese foreign minister told his Chinese counterpart Chen Yi of an offer of 100,000 tonnes of wheat to be shipped out of public view, he was rebuffed. John F. Kennedy was also aware that the Chinese were exporting food to Africa and Cuba during the famine and said \"we've had no indication from the Chinese Communists that they would welcome any offer of food.\"\n\nWith dramatically reduced yields, even urban areas suffered much reduced rations; however, mass starvation was largely confined to the countryside, where, as a result of drastically inflated production statistics, very little grain was left for the peasants to eat. Food shortages were bad throughout the country; however, the provinces which had adopted Mao's reforms with the most vigor, such as Anhui, Gansu and Henan, tended to suffer disproportionately. Sichuan, one of China's most populous provinces, known in China as \"Heaven's Granary\" because of its fertility, is thought to have suffered the greatest absolute numbers of deaths from starvation due to the vigor with which provincial leader Li Jinquan undertook Mao's reforms. During the Great Leap Forward, cases of cannibalism also occurred in the parts of China that were severely affected by famine.\n\nGreat suffering was experienced even by those who survived the famine. Author Yan Lianke who endured the Great Leap growing up in Henan was taught by his mother to \"recognize the most edible kinds of bark and clay. When all the trees had been stripped and there was no more clay, he learned that lumps of coal could appease the devil in his stomach, at least for a little while.\" \n\nThe agricultural policies of the Great Leap Forward and the associated famine continued until January 1961, when, at the Ninth Plenum of the Eighth Central Committee, the restoration of agricultural production through a reversal of the Great Leap policies was started. Grain exports were stopped, and imports from Canada and Australia helped to reduce the impact of the food shortages, at least in the coastal cities.\n\nThe exact number of famine deaths is difficult to determine, and estimates range from upwards of 30 million, to 55 million people. Because of the uncertainties involved in estimating famine deaths caused by the Great Leap Forward or any famine, it is difficult to compare the severity of different famines. However, if a mid-estimate of 30 million deaths is accepted, the Great Leap Forward was the deadliest famine in the history of China and in the history of the world. This was in part due to China's large population; in the Great Irish Famine, approximately 1 million of a population of 8 million people died, or 12.5%. In the Great Chinese Famine approximately 30 million of a population of 600 million people died, or 5%.\n\nThe Great Leap Forward reversed the downward trend in mortality that had occurred since 1950, though even during the Leap, mortality may not have reached pre-1949 levels. Famine deaths and the reduction in number of births caused the population of China to drop in 1960 and 1961. This was only the third time in 600 years that the population of China had decreased. After the Great Leap Forward, mortality rates decreased to below pre-Leap levels and the downward trend begun in 1950 continued.\n\nThe severity of the famine varied from region to region. By correlating the increase in death rates of different provinces, Peng Xizhe found that Gansu, Sichuan, Guizhou, Hunan, Guangxi, and Anhui were the worst-hit regions, while Heilongjiang, Inner Mongolia, Xinjiang, Tianjin, and Shanghai had the lowest increase in death rate during the Great Leap Forward (there was no data for Tibet). Peng also noted that the increase in death rate in urban areas was about half the increase in rural areas. Fuyang, a region in Anhui with a population of 8 million in 1958, had a death rate that rivaled Cambodia under the Khmer Rouge; more than 2.4 million people perished there over three years. In Gao Village in Jiangxi Province there was a famine, but no one actually died of starvation.\n\nThe number of famine deaths during the Great Leap Forward has been estimated by different methods. Banister, Coale, and Ashton \"et al.\" compare age cohorts from the 1953, 1964, and 1982 censuses, yearly birth and death records, and results of the 1982 1:1000 fertility survey. From these they calculate excess deaths above a death rate interpolated between pre- and post-Leap death rates. All involve corrections for perceived errors inherent in the different data sets. Peng uses reported deaths from the vital statistics of 14 provinces, adjusts 10% for under reporting, and expands the result to cover all of China assuming similar mortality rates in the other provinces. He uses 1956/57 death rates as the baseline death rate rather than an interpolation between pre- and post-GLF death rates.\n\nCao uses information from \"local annals\" to determine for each locality the expected population increase from normal births and deaths, the population increase due to migration, and the loss of population between 1958 and 1961. He then adds the three figures to determine the number of excess deaths during the period 1959–1961. Chang and Halliday use death rates determined by \"Chinese demographers\" for the years 1957–1963, subtract the average of the pre-and post-Leap death rates (1957, 1962, and 1963) from the death rates of each of the years 1958–1961, and multiply each yearly excess death rate by the year's population to determine excess deaths.\n\nChen was part of a large investigation by the System Reform Institute think tank (Tigaisuo) which \"visited every province and examined internal Party documents and records.\"\n\nBecker, Rummel, Dikötter, and Yang each compare several earlier estimates. Becker considers Banister's estimate of 30 million excess deaths to be \"the most reliable estimate we have\". Rummel initially took Coale's 27 million as a \"most likely figure\", then accepted the later estimate of 38 million by Chang and Halliday after it was published. Dikötter judged Chen's estimate of 43 to 46 million to be \"in all likelihood a reliable estimate.\" Yang takes Cao's, Wang Weizhi's, and Jin Hui's estimates ranging from 32.5 to 35 million excess deaths for the period 1959–1961, adds his own estimates for 1958 (0.42 million) and 1962 (2.23 million) \"based on official figures reported by the provinces\" to get 35 to 37 million, and chooses 36 million as a number that \"approaches the reality but is still too low.\"\n\nEstimates contain several sources of error. National census data was not accurate and even the total population of China at the time was not known to within 50 million to 100 million people. The statistical reporting system had been taken over by party cadre from statisticians in 1957, making political considerations more important than accuracy and resulting in a complete breakdown in the statistical reporting system. Population figures were routinely inflated at the local level, often in order to obtain increased rations of goods. During the Cultural Revolution, a great deal of the material in the State Statistical Bureau was burned.\n\nUnder-reporting of deaths was also a problem. The death registration system, which was inadequate before the famine, was completely overwhelmed by the large number of deaths during the famine. In addition, many deaths went unreported so that family members of the deceased could continue to draw the deceased's food ration. Counting the number of children who both were born and died between the 1953 and 1964 censuses is problematic. However, Ashton, \"et al.\" believe that because the reported number of births during the GLF seems accurate, the reported number of deaths should be accurate as well. Massive internal migration made both population counts and registering deaths problematic, though Yang believes the degree of unofficial internal migration was small and Cao's estimate takes internal migration into account.\n\nCoale's, Banister's, Ashton \"et al.\"s, and Peng's figures all include adjustments for demographic reporting errors, though Dikötter believes that their results, as well as Chang and Halliday's, Yang's, and Cao's, are still underestimates. The System Reform Institute's (Chen's) estimate has not been published and therefore it cannot be verified.\n\nThe policies of the Great Leap Forward, the failure of the government to respond quickly and effectively to famine conditions, as well as Mao's insistence on maintaining high grain export quotas in the face of clear evidence of poor crop output were responsible for the famine. There is disagreement over how much, if at all, weather conditions contributed to the famine. Also there is considerable evidence the famine was intentional or due to willful negligence.\n\nYang Jisheng, a long-time communist party member and a reporter for the official Chinese news agency Xinhua, puts the blame squarely on Maoist policies and the political system of totalitarianism, such as diverting agricultural workers to steel production instead of growing crops, and exporting grain at the same time. During the course of his research, Yang uncovered that some 22 million tons of grain was held in public granaries at the height of the famine, reports of the starvation went up the bureaucracy only to be ignored by top officials, and the authorities ordered that statistics be destroyed in regions where population decline became evident.\n\nEconomist Steven Rosefielde argues that Yang's account \"shows that Mao's slaughter was caused in considerable part by terror-starvation; that is, voluntary manslaughter (and perhaps murder) rather than innocuous famine.\" Yang notes that local party officials were indifferent to the large number of people dying around them, as their primary concern was the delivery of grain, which Mao wanted to use to pay back debts to the USSR totaling 1.973 billion yuan. In Xinyang, people died of starvation at the doors of grain warehouses. Mao refused to open the state granaries as he dismissed reports of food shortages and accused the peasants of hiding grain.\n\nFrom his research into records and talks with experts at the meteorological bureau, Yang concludes that the weather during the Great Leap Forward was not unusual compared to other periods and was not a factor. Yang also believes that the Sino-Soviet split was not a factor because it did not happen until 1960, when the famine was well under way.\n\nChang and Halliday argue that \"Mao had actually allowed for many more deaths. Although slaughter was not his purpose with the Leap, he was more than ready for myriad deaths to result, and had hinted to his top echelon that they should not be too shocked if they happened.\" Democide historian R.J. Rummel had originally classified the famine deaths as unintentional. In light of evidence provided in Chang and Halliday's book, he now believes that the mass human deaths associated with the Great Leap Forward constitute democide.\n\nAccording to Frank Dikötter, Mao and the Communist Party knew that some of their policies were contributing to the starvation. Foreign minister Chen Yi said of some of the early human losses in November 1958:\n\nCasualties have indeed appeared among workers, but it is not enough to stop us in our tracks. This is the price we have to pay, it's nothing to be afraid of. Who knows how many people have been sacrificed on the battlefields and in the prisons [for the revolutionary cause]? Now we have a few cases of illness and death: it's nothing!\n\nDuring a secret meeting in Shanghai in 1959, Mao demanded the state procurement of one-third of all grain to feed the cities and satisfy foreign clients, and noted that \"If you don't go above a third, people won't rebel.\" He also stated at the same meeting:\n\nWhen there is not enough to eat people starve to death. It is better to let half of the people die so that the other half can eat their fill.\n\nBenjamin Valentino writes that like in the USSR during the famine of 1932–33, peasants were confined to their starving villages by a system of household registration, and the worst effects of the famine were directed against enemies of the regime. Those labeled as \"black elements\" (religious leaders, rightists, rich peasants, etc.) in any previous campaign were given the lowest priority in the allocation of food, and therefore died in the greatest numbers. According to genocide scholar Adam Jones, \"no group suffered more than the Tibetans\", with perhaps one in five dying from 1959 to 1962.\n\nAshton, \"et al.\" write that policies leading to food shortages, natural disasters, and a slow response to initial indications of food shortages were to blame for the famine. Policies leading to food shortages included the implementation of the commune system and an emphasis on non-agricultural activities such as backyard steel production. Natural disasters included drought, flood, typhoon, plant disease, and insect pest. The slow response was in part due to a lack of objective reporting on the agricultural situation, including a \"nearly complete breakdown in the agricultural reporting system\".\n\nThis was partly caused by strong incentives for officials to over-report crop yields. The unwillingness of the Central Government to seek international aid was a major factor; China's net grain exports in 1959 and 1960 would have been enough to feed 16 million people 2000 calories per day. Ashton, \"et al.\" conclude that \"It would not be inaccurate to say that 30 million people died prematurely as a result of errors of internal policy and flawed international relations.\"\n\nMobo Gao suggested that the Great Leap Forward's terrible effects came not from malignant intent on the part of the Chinese leadership at the time, but instead related to the structural nature of its rule, and the vastness of China as a country. Gao says \"the terrible lesson learnt is that China is so huge and when it is uniformly ruled, follies or wrong policies will have grave implications of tremendous magnitude\".\n\nThe PRC government's official web portal places the responsibility for the \"serious losses\" to \"country and people\" of 1959–1961 (without mentioning famine) mainly on the Great Leap Forward and the anti-rightist struggle, and lists weather and cancellation of contracts by the Soviet Union as contributing factors.\n\nNot all deaths during the Great Leap were from starvation. Frank Dikötter estimates that at least 2.5 million people were beaten or tortured to death and one million to three million committed suicide. He provides some illustrative examples. In Xinyang, where over a million died in 1960, 6–7% (around 67,000) of these were beaten to death by the militias. In Daoxian county, 10% of those who died had been \"buried alive, clubbed to death or otherwise killed by party members and their militia.\" In Shimen county, around 13,500 died in 1960, of these 12% were \"beaten or driven to their deaths.\" In accounts documented by Yang Jisheng, people were beaten or killed for rebelling against the government, reporting the real harvest numbers, for sounding alarm, for refusing to hand over what little food they had left, for trying to flee the famine area, for begging food or as little as stealing scraps or angering officials.\n\nDuring the Great Leap, the Chinese economy initially grew. Iron production increased 45% in 1958 and a combined 30% over the next two years, but plummeted in 1961, and did not reach the previous 1958 level until 1964.\n\nThe Great Leap also led to the greatest destruction of real estate in human history, outstripping any of the bombing campaigns from World War II. Approximately 30% to 40% of all houses were turned to rubble. Frank Dikötter states that \"homes were pulled down to make fertilizer, to build canteens, relocate villagers, straighten roads, make place for a better future, or punish their owners.\"\n\nIn agrarian policy, the failures of food supply during the Great Leap were met by a gradual de-collectivization in the 1960s that foreshadowed further de-collectivization under Deng Xiaoping. Political scientist Meredith Jung-En Woo argues: \"Unquestionably the regime failed to respond in time to save the lives of millions of peasants, but when it did respond, it ultimately transformed the livelihoods of several hundred million peasants (modestly in the early 1960s, but permanently after Deng Xiaoping's reforms subsequent to 1978.)\"\n\nDespite the risks to their careers, some Communist Party members openly laid blame for the disaster at the feet of the Party leadership and took it as proof that China must rely more on education, acquiring technical expertise and applying bourgeois methods in developing the economy. Liu Shaoqi made a speech in 1962 at Seven Thousand Cadres Conference criticizing that \"The economic disaster was 30% fault of nature, 70% human error.\"\n\nA 2017 paper by two Peking University economists found \"strong evidence that the unrealistic yield targets led to excessive death tolls during 1959-61, and further analysis shows that yield targets induced the inflation of grain output figures and excessive procurement. We also find that Mao's radical policy caused serious deterioration in human capital accumulation and slower economic development in the policy-affected regions decades after the death of Mao.\"\n\nThere were various forms of resistance to the Great Leap Forward. Several provinces saw armed rebellion, though these rebellions never posed a serious threat to the Central Government. Rebellions are documented to have occurred in Henan, Shandong, Qinghai, Gansu, Sichuan, Fujian, and Yunnan provinces and in the Tibetan Autonomous Region. In Henan, Shandong, Qinghai, Gansu, and Sichuan, these rebellions lasted more than a year. There was also occasional violence against cadre members. Raids on granaries, arson and other vandalism, train robberies, and raids on neighboring villages and counties were common.\n\nAccording to over 20 years of research by Ralph Thaxton, professor of politics at Brandeis University, villagers turned against the CPC during and after the Great Leap, seeing it as autocratic, brutal, corrupt, and mean-spirited. The CPC's policies, which included plunder, forced labor, and starvation, according to Thaxton, led villagers \"to think about their relationship with the Communist Party in ways that do not bode well for the continuity of socialist rule.\"\n\nOften, villagers composed doggerel to show their defiance to the regime, and \"perhaps, to remain sane.\" During the Great Leap, one jingle ran: \"Flatter shamelessly—eat delicacies... Don't flatter—starve to death for sure.\"\n\nMany local officials were tried and publicly executed for giving out misinformation.\n\nMao stepped down as State Chairman of the PRC in 1959, but remained CCP Chairman. Liu Shaoqi (the new PRC Chairman) and reformist Deng Xiaoping (CPC General Secretary) were left in charge to change policy to bring economic recovery. Mao's Great Leap Forward policy was openly criticized at the Lushan party conference. Criticism was led by Minister of National Defense Peng Dehuai, who, initially troubled by the potentially adverse effect of the Great Leap on modernization of the armed forces, also admonished unnamed party members for trying to \"jump into communism in one step.\" After the Lushan showdown, Mao replaced Peng with Lin Biao.\n\nHowever, by 1962, it was clear that the party had changed away from the extremist ideology that led to the Great Leap. During 1962, the party held a number of conferences and rehabilitated most of the deposed comrades who had criticized Mao in the aftermath of the Great Leap. The event was again discussed, with much self-criticism, and the contemporary government called it a \"serious [loss] to our country and people\" and blamed the cult of personality of Mao.\n\nIn particular, at the \"Seven Thousand Cadres Conference\" in January – February 1962, Mao made a self-criticism and re-affirmed his commitment to democratic centralism. In the years that followed, Mao mostly abstained from the operations of government, making policy largely the domain of Liu Shaoqi and Deng Xiaoping. Maoist ideology took a back seat in the Communist Party, until Mao launched the Cultural Revolution in 1966 which marked Mao's political comeback.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4827163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4827163", "title": "Gross Rent Multiplier", "text": "Gross Rent Multiplier\n\nGross Rent Multiplier (GRM) is the ratio of the price of a real estate investment to its monthly rental income before accounting for expenses such as property taxes, insurance, and utilities; GRM is the number of years the property would take to pay for itself in gross received rent. For a prospective real estate investor, a lower GRM represents a better opportunity.\n\nThe GRM is useful for comparing and selecting investment properties where depreciation effects, periodic costs (such as property taxes and insurance) and costs to the investor incurred by a potential renter (such as utilities and repairs) can be expected to be uniform across the properties (either as uniform values or uniform fractions of the gross rental income) or insignificant in comparison to gross rental income. As these costs are also often more difficult to predict than market rental return, the GRM serves as an alternative to a measure of net investment return where such a measure would be difficult to determine.\n\nExample; $200,000 Sale Price / $20,000 gross annual rental income = 10\n\nToday, it is quite common for GRM to be quoted by real estate professionals using annual rents rather than monthly rents. A 100 GRM (monthly rents) = 8.33 GRM (annual rents). An 8.33 GRM calculated on annual rents suggests the gross rent will pay for the property in 8.33 years.\n\nThe common measure of rental real estate value based on net return rather than gross rental income is the Capitalization Rate or Cap Rate. In contrast to the GRM, the Cap Rate is not a multiplier but a rate of annual return. A similar multiplier to the GRM derived from net return would be the multiplicative inverse of the Cap Rate.\n"}
{"id": "782496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=782496", "title": "Homeland Union", "text": "Homeland Union\n\nThe Homeland Union – Lithuanian Christian Democrats (, TS-LKD) is a centre-right political party in Lithuania. It has 18,000 members and 30 of 141 seats in the Seimas.\n\nIt is the main centre-right party, with a particularly liberal-conservative and Christian-democratic, but also nationalist oriented and economically liberal, ideology. Its current leader is Gabrielius Landsbergis who replaced Andrius Kubilius in 2014. It is a member of the European People's Party (EPP) and the International Democrat Union (IDU).\n\nIt was founded in May 1993 by the right wing of the Reform Movement of Lithuania, led by Vytautas Landsbergis, who had led Lithuania to independence. In the 1996 national elections, it secured 31.3% of the vote and returned 70 deputies to the Seimas, but, in 2000, it was reduced to 8.6% and 9 deputies.\n\nAfter Lithuania's admission to the European Union in 2004, it won two seats in the election to the European Parliament, one of whom was Vytautas Landsbergis, who sat in the EPP-ED Group. At the 2004 election to the Seimas, the party won 14.6% of the popular vote and 25 out of 141 seats.\n\nUntil the merger with Lithuanian Union of Political Prisoners and Deportees and Right Union of Lithuania), it was known just as \"Homeland Union (Lithuanian Conservatives)\". The last change of the name was a result of the merger with the Lithuanian Nationalist Union on 11 March 2008, and the Lithuanian Christian Democrats on 17 May 2008, after which the \"Homeland Union – Lithuanian Christian Democrats\" became Lithuania's largest party with more than 18,000 members. Prior to 2008 it was known as the Homeland Union (Conservatives, Political Prisoners and the Exiled, Christian Democrats) or TS.\nAt the 2008 legislative election, Homeland Union won 19.69% of the national vote and 45 seats in the Seimas: 20 more than in 2004. Becoming the largest party in the Seimas, it formed a coalition government with the Liberal Movement, Liberal and Centre Union, and National Resurrection Party. Together, they held a majority of 80 out of 141 seats in the Seimas, and the Homeland Union's leader, Andrius Kubilius, became Prime Minister for a second time.\n\nIn June 2011, the Lithuanian Nationalist Union declared its withdrawal from the party.\n\nSupport for the party plummeted in the 2012 election, and it was excluded from the government. It was credited to many unpopular decisions made during the time of government, and the unpopularity of the Andrius Kubilius. At the 2016 legislative election party's support increased, but, due to failure to win more single-member seats in Seimas, number seats held felt to 31.\n\n"}
{"id": "31574980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31574980", "title": "Homo Homini Award", "text": "Homo Homini Award\n\nThe Homo Homini Award is given annually by the Czech human rights organization People in Need to \"an individual in recognition of a dedication to the promotion of human rights, democracy and non-violent solutions to political conflicts\". The award is presented at the One World Film Festival, the world's largest human rights film festival.\n\nPast winners of the Homo Homini Award include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "30000605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30000605", "title": "International Consortium of Investigative Journalists", "text": "International Consortium of Investigative Journalists\n\nThe International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) is an independent Washington D.C.-based international network. Launched in 1997 by the Center for Public Integrity, ICIJ was spun off in February 2017 into a fully independent organisation which includes more than 200 investigative journalists and 100 media organizations in over 70 countries who work together on \"issues such as \"cross-border crime, corruption, and the accountability of power.\" The ICIJ has exposed smuggling and tax evasion by multinational tobacco companies (2000), \"by organized crime syndicates; investigated private military cartels, asbestos companies, and climate change lobbyists; and broke new ground by publicizing details of Iraq and Afghanistan war contracts.\"\n\nThe Panama Papers, was a collaboration of more than 100 media partners, including members of Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project (OCCRP), with journalists who worked on the data, culminating in a partial release on 3 April 2016, garnering global media attention. The set of 11.5 million confidential financial and legal document from the Panama-based law firm Mossack Fonseca included detailed information on more than 14,000 clients and more than 214,000 offshore entities, including the identities of shareholders and directors including noted personalities and heads of state—government officials, close relatives and close associates of various heads of government of more than 40 other countries. The German newspaper \"\" first received the released data from an anonymous source in 2015. After working on the Mossack Fonseca documents for a year, ICIJ director Gerard Ryle described how the offshore firm had \"helped companies and individuals with tax havens, including those that have been sanctioned by the U.S. and UK for dealing with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.\"\n\nThe ICIJ's most recent investigation is the 2017 Paradise Papers, a cross-border, global investigation that reveals the offshore activities of some of the world's most powerful people and companies. The project involved 95 media partners and was based on 13.4 million leaked files.\n\nIn 1997, the Center for Public Integrity began \"assembling the world's first working network of premier investigative reporters.\" By 2000 the ICIJ consisted of 75 world-class investigative reporters in 39 countries.\"\n\nIn February 2017, ICIJ was spun off into a fully independent organisation, which is now governed by three committees: a traditional board of directors with a fiduciary role; an Advisory Committee made of supporters; and an ICIJ Network Committee.\n\nICIJ was granted nonprofit status from US tax authorities in July the same year.\n\nIn 2017, the ICIJ, the McClatchy Company, and the Miami Herald won the Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Reporting \"for the Panama Papers, a series of stories using a collaboration of more than 300 reporters on six continents to expose the hidden infrastructure and global scale of offshore tax havens.\" In total, the ICIJ won more than 20 awards for the Panama Papers.\n\nFrom 2008 to 2011, the ICIJ investigated the global tobacco industry, revealing how Philip Morris International and other tobacco companies worked to grow businesses in Russia, Mexico, Uruguay and Indonesia.\n\nThe ICIJ partnered with \"The Guardian\", BBC, \"Le Monde\", the \"Washington Post\", \"SonntagsZeitung\", \"The Indian Express\", \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" and \"NDR\" to produce an investigative series on offshore banking. They reported on government corruption across the globe, tax avoidance schemes used by wealthy people and the use of secret offshore accounts in Ponzi Schemes.\n\nIn June 2011, an ICIJ article revealed how an Australian businessman had helped his clients legally incorporate thousands of offshore shell entitles \"some of which later became involved in the international movement of oil, guns and money.\"\n\nIn early 2014, the ICIJ revealed that relatives of China's political and financial elite were among those using offshore tax havens to conceal wealth.\n\nThe \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" received a leaked set of 11.5 million confidential documents from a secret source, created by the Panamanian corporate service provider Mossack Fonseca. The so-called Panama Papers provided detailed information on more than 214,000 offshore companies, including the identities of shareholders and directors which included government officials, close relatives and close associates of various heads of government of more than 40 other countries. Because of the leak the prime minister of Iceland, Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson, was forced to resign on 5 April 2016. By 4 April 2016 more than \"107 media organisations in 76 countries\" had participated in analyzing the documents, including \"BBC Panorama\" and the UK newspaper, \"The Guardian\". Based on the Panama Paper disclosure, Pakistan Supreme Court constituted the Joint Investigation Team to probe the matter and disqualified the Prime Minister Nawas Sharif on July 28, 2017 to hold any public office for life.\n\nThe ICIJ and \"\" received the Panama Papers in 2015 and distributed them to about 400 journalists at 107 media organizations in more than 80 countries. The first news reports based on the set, along with 149 of the documents themselves,\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\",\n\nIn 2017, the German newspaper \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" obtained a \"cache\" of \"13.4 million leaked files\" regarding tax havens, known as the Paradise Papers, related to the Bermuda-based offshore specialist Appleby, \"one of the world's largest offshore law firms.\" The files were shared them with the ICIJ and eventually 95 media outlets.\" They revealed that many of the tax havens used by Appleby are in the Cayman Islands, which is a British territory that \"levies no corporate or personal income tax on money earned outside its jurisdiction.\" The Paradise Papers revealed the \"offshore activities of some of the world's most powerful people and companies\".\n\nIn the course of the Panama Papers and Paradise Papers investigations, ICIJ was challenged to learn about and implement various technologies to manage international collaboration on terabytes of data - structured and unstructured (e.g. emails, PDFs) - and how to extract meaningful information from this data. Among the technologies used were the Neo4J graphic database management systems and Linkurious to search and visualize the data. The data-intensive projects involved not just veteran investigative journalists, but also demanded data journalists and programmers.\n\nThe ICIJ is active on social media with a website, a blog entitled the 'Global Muckraker, ' Facebook, Twitter, Google+ and a YouTube channel.\n\nThe ICIJ organized the bi-annual \"Daniel Pearl Awards for Outstanding International Investigative Reporting\". The award is currently not being awarded.\n\n"}
{"id": "5602379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5602379", "title": "Intrusion tolerance", "text": "Intrusion tolerance\n\nIntrusion tolerance is a fault-tolerant design approach to defending information systems against malicious attack. Abandoning the conventional aim of preventing all intrusions, intrusion tolerance instead calls for triggering mechanisms that prevent intrusions from leading to a system security failure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13911356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13911356", "title": "João da Mata", "text": "João da Mata\n\nJoão da Mata is a 1923 Brazilian silent political drama film directed by Amilar Alves. \n\nThe film premiered in Rio de Janeiro on October 9, 1923\n\nThe film questions the theme of land and Agrarian Reform in Brazil, and depicts the landowners known as \"coronéis\" in Portuguese as brutal and vindictive men. A lot of money, equipment and resources were employed for the film as it was considered an important topic at the time. Much of the film however has been destroyed and only fragments remain. \n\n"}
{"id": "53036191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53036191", "title": "Kraljevo massacre", "text": "Kraljevo massacre\n\nThe Kraljevo massacre was the mass murder of approximately 2,000 residents of the central Serbian city of Kraljevo by the \"Wehrmacht\" between 15 and 20 October 1941, during World War II. The massacre came in reprisal for a joint Partisan–Chetnik attack on a German garrison in which 10 German soldiers were killed and 14 wounded. The number of hostages to be shot was calculated based on a ratio of 100 hostages executed for every German soldier killed and 50 hostages executed for every German soldier wounded, a formula devised by Adolf Hitler with the intent of suppressing anti-Nazi resistance in Eastern Europe.\n\nThe \"Wehrmacht\" initially responded by rounding up and executing 300 Serbian civilians, described in contemporary documents as \"communists, nationalists, democrats and Jews.\" Over the following several days, all men between the ages of 14 and 60 were arrested and herded into a makeshift detention centre at the local rolling-stock factory. Once there, their papers were checked and their names entered into a ledger. When the camp was full, the \"Wehrmacht\" ordered groups of 100 prisoners to march to pre-dug mass graves, where they were executed with heavy machine guns. The bodies were then examined for any signs of life; victims that had survived the initial volley were dealt a single bullet to the head. Once the first group had been liquidated, the soldiers returned to the factory and collected the next 100 victims. This process continued until all the men that were rounded up had been killed. The reprisals lasted several days. Following the shooting of hostages from the rolling-stock factory, the \"Wehrmacht\" deployed through the surrounding villages, burning homes and killing indiscriminately. According to the 717th Infantry Division's own records, 1,736 men and 19 \"communist\" women from the city and its outskirts were executed, despite attempts by local collaborationists to mitigate the punishment. Twenty members of the 717th Infantry Division were later conferred Iron Crosses for their role in the killings.\n\nThe massacre at Kraljevo, as well as a similar and nearly concurrent massacre in nearby Kragujevac, convinced German commanders that mass killings of Serbian hostages were not only ineffectual but also counterproductive, as they drove locals into the hands of insurgents and sometimes resulted in the deaths of factory workers contributing to the German war effort. Following the war, several senior German military officials were tried and convicted for their involvement in the reprisal shootings at the Nuremberg Trials and the Subsequent Nuremberg trials.\n\nFollowing the 1938 \"Anschluss\" between Germany and Austria, Yugoslavia came to share its northwestern border with the Third Reich and fell under increasing pressure as her neighbours aligned themselves with the Axis powers. In April 1939, Italy opened a second frontier with Yugoslavia when it invaded and occupied neighbouring Albania. At the outbreak of World War II, the Yugoslav government declared its neutrality. Between September and November 1940, Hungary and Romania joined the Tripartite Pact, aligning themselves with the Axis, and Italy invaded Greece. From then, Yugoslavia was almost surrounded by the Axis powers and their satellites, and her neutral stance toward the war became strained. In late February 1941, Bulgaria joined the Pact. The following day, German troops entered Bulgaria from Romania, closing the ring around Yugoslavia. Intending to secure his southern flank for the impending attack on the Soviet Union, Adolf Hitler began placing heavy pressure on Yugoslavia to join the Axis. On 25 March 1941, after some delay, the Yugoslav government conditionally signed the Pact. Two days later, a group of pro-Western, Serbian nationalist Royal Yugoslav Air Force officers deposed the country's regent, Prince Paul, in a bloodless coup d'état, placed his teenaged nephew Peter on the throne, and brought to power a \"government of national unity\" led by the head of the Royal Yugoslav Air Force, General Dušan Simović. The coup enraged Hitler, who immediately ordered the country's invasion, which commenced on 6 April 1941.\nYugoslavia was overwhelmed by the combined strength of the Axis powers and surrendered in less than two weeks. The government and royal family went into exile, and the country was occupied and dismembered by its neighbours. The German-occupied territory of Serbia was limited to the pre-Balkan War borders of the Kingdom of Serbia and was directly occupied by the Germans for the key rail and riverine transport routes that passed through it, as well as its valuable resources, particularly non-ferrous metals. The occupied territory covered about and had a population of 3.8 million. Hitler had briefly considered erasing all existence of a Serbian state, but this was quickly abandoned and the Germans began searching for a Serb suitable to lead a puppet government in Belgrade. They initially settled on Milan Aćimović, a staunch anti-communist who served as Yugoslavia's Minister of Internal Affairs during the winter of 1939–1940.\n\nTwo resistance movements emerged following the invasion: the communist-led, multi-ethnic Partisans, and the royalist, Serbian nationalist Chetniks, although during 1941, within the occupied territory, even the Partisans consisted almost entirely of Serbs. The Partisans were led by the General Secretary of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia Josip Broz Tito, while the Chetniks were led by Colonel Draža Mihailović, an officer in the interwar Royal Yugoslav Army. The two movements had widely diverging goals. Whereas the Partisans sought to turn Yugoslavia into a communist state under Tito's leadership, the Chetniks sought a return to the pre-war \"status quo\", whereby the Yugoslav monarchy—and, by extension, Serb political hegemony—would be restored. Communist resistance commenced in early July, shortly after the invasion of the Soviet Union, targeting both the Germans and the puppet authorities. By late August 1941, the Partisans and Chetniks were carrying out joint attacks against the Germans. The Partisans were well organised and many of their commanders had ample military experience, having fought in the Spanish Civil War. By late summer, they had 8,000 fighters spread across 21 detachments in Serbia alone. Many Chetniks were either veterans of the Balkan Wars and World War I or former members of the Royal Yugoslav Army. They boasted around 20,000 fighters in the German-occupied territory of Serbia at the time of the massacre.\n\nOn 29 August, the Germans replaced Aćimović with Yugoslavia's former Minister of the Army and Navy and Chief of the General Staff, General Milan Nedić, another fervent anti-communist, who formed a new puppet government. Nedić's inability to crush the Partisans and Chetniks prompted the Military Commander in Serbia to request German reinforcements from other parts of the continent. In mid-September, they transferred the 125th Infantry Regiment from Greece and the 342nd Infantry Division from France to help put down the uprising in Serbia. On 16 September, Hitler issued Directive No. 312 to \"Generalfeldmarschall\" (Field Marshal) Wilhelm List, the \"Wehrmacht\" commander in Southeast Europe, ordering him to suppress all resistance in that part of the continent. That same day, the Supreme Command of the Armed Forces (\"Oberkommando der Wehrmacht\"; OKW) issued Hitler's order on the suppression of \"Communist Armed Resistance Movements in the Occupied Areas\", signed by \"Generalfeldmarschall\" Wilhelm Keitel. This decree specified that all attacks against the Germans on the Eastern Front were to be \"regarded as being of communist origin\", and that 100 hostages were to be shot for every German soldier killed and 50 were to be shot for every German soldier wounded. It was intended to apply to all of Eastern Europe, though an identical policy had already been implemented in Serbia as early as 28 April 1941, aimed at deterring guerrilla attacks. Attacks against the Germans increased during the spring and summer, and Serbia once again became a warzone. German troops fanned through the countryside burning villages, taking hostages and establishing concentration camps. The first mass executions of hostages commenced in July.\n\nThe strengthening of Germany's military presence in Serbia resulted in a new wave of mass executions and war crimes. The commanders who bore the most responsibility for these atrocities were primarily of Austrian origin and had served in the Austro-Hungarian Army during World War I. Most were ardently anti-Serb, a prejudice that the historian Stevan K. Pavlowitch links to the Nazis' wider anti-Slavic racism.\n\nOn 19 September, \"General der Gebirgstruppe\" (Lieutenant General) Franz Böhme was appointed as Plenipotentiary Commanding General in Serbia, with direct responsibility for quelling the revolt, bringing with him the staff of XVIII Mountain Corps. He was allocated additional forces to assist him in doing so, reinforcing the three German occupation divisions already in the territory. These divisions were the 704th Infantry Division, 714th Infantry Division and 717th Infantry Division. Böhme boasted a profound hatred of Serbs and encouraged his predominantly Austrian-born troops to exact \"vengeance\" against them. His primary grievances were the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand and subsequent Austro-Hungarian military defeats at the hands of the Royal Serbian Army, which he thought could only be rectified by the reprisal shooting of Serbian civilians. \"In Serbia,\" he wrote, \"it is necessary, on the basis of the Balkan mentality and the great expansion of insurgent movements ... to carry out the orders of the OKW in the most severe form.\"\n\nKraljevo is a city located about south of Belgrade. At the time of the massacre, it was situated along a vital transport route and was the seat of a German divisional command. In mid-October 1941, the Partisans and Chetniks laid siege to a 2,200-strong German garrison in the city. Ten German soldiers were killed and 14 wounded in the attack. \"Not only will 100 Serbs be shot for each German,\" the garrison commander declared, \"their families and property will also be destroyed.\" He then gave orders for the arrest and summary execution of 300 Serbian civilians. His orders were promptly carried out. The victims were described in contemporary German military documents as \"communists, nationalists, democrats and Jews\".\n\nNew orders were subsequently issued demanding further executions. According to eyewitness accounts, the \"Wehrmacht\" went from house to house over the next several days, arresting all males between the ages of 14 and 60. They were herded into a makeshift detention centre at a former rolling-stock factory. Once there, their papers were checked and their names entered into a ledger. When the camp was full, the \"Wehrmacht\" ordered groups of 100 prisoners to march to pre-dug mass graves, where they were executed with heavy machine guns. The bodies were then examined for any signs of life; victims that had survived the initial volley were dealt a single bullet to the head. Once the first group had been liquidated, the soldiers returned to the factory and collected the next 100 victims. This process continued until all the men that were rounded up had been killed.\n\nThe reprisals lasted several days. Following the shooting of hostages from the rolling-stock factory, the \"Wehrmacht\" deployed through the surrounding villages, burning homes and killing indiscriminately. According to the 717th Infantry Division's own records, by 17 or 20 October, 1,736 men and 19 \"communist\" women from the city and its outskirts had been shot. The executions were carried out despite attempts by local collaborationists to mitigate the punishment. Most of those killed were ethnic Serbs, though 80 Roma (Gypsies) were also among the victims, as were some Jews, and several dozen Slovene refugees. Among the dead was the entire Serbian workforce of an airplane factory producing armaments for the Germans. The factory workers had been interned on suspicion of sabotage. Forty members of the collaborationist Serbian Volunteer Command were inadvertently killed. \"Generalmajor\" (Brigadier General) Paul Hoffman, the commander of the 717th Infantry Division, personally oversaw the reprisals and praised his men for their \"enthusiastic fulfillment of what was required of them\". Another officer lauded his men for demonstrating \"great bravery in action\". Twenty members of the 717th Infantry Division were later conferred the Iron Cross, 2nd Class for their role in the massacre.\n\nThe massacre at Kraljevo, as well as a similar and nearly concurrent massacre in nearby Kragujevac, was met with outrage by the Serbian puppet government, which responded with pleas, interventions and threats of resignation. The killings led German military commanders in Serbia to question the efficacy of mass reprisal shootings, as they pushed thousands of Serbs into the hands of anti-German guerrillas. The killing of airplane factory workers in Kraljevo convinced the OKW that arbitrary shootings of Serbs not only incurred a significant political cost but were also counterproductive. The ratio of 100 executions for one soldier killed and 50 executions for one soldier wounded was reduced by half in February 1943, and removed altogether that autumn. Henceforth, each individual execution had to be approved by Special Envoy Hermann Neubacher.\n\nThe killings exacerbated tensions between the Partisans and Chetniks. They also convinced Mihailović that active resistance was futile for as long as the Germans held an unassailable military advantage in the Balkans, and that killing German troops would only result in the unnecessary deaths of tens of thousands of Serbs. He therefore decided to scale back Chetnik guerrilla attacks and wait for an Allied landing in the Balkans.\n\nList and Böhme were both captured at the end of the war. On 10 May 1947, they were charged with war crimes and crimes against humanity as part of the Hostages Trial of the Subsequent Nuremberg trials. One of the crimes specifically listed in Count 1 of the indictment was the massacre of 2,300 hostages in Kragujevac. Böhme committed suicide before his arraignment. List was found guilty on Count 1, as well as on another count. He was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1948, but was released due to ill health in 1953. Despite this, he lived until June 1971. Keitel was found guilty of war crimes and crimes against humanity at the Nuremberg Trials, and subsequently hanged. Hoffmann, whom the local population dubbed the \"butcher of Kraljevo and Kragujevac\", was promoted to command the more capable 352nd Infantry Division in November 1941. He ended the war as the commander of a prisoner-of-war camp, having been demoted for refusing to shoot deserters in the Ukraine. The 717th Infantry Division was reorganised as the 117th Jäger Division later in the war and its troops took part in a massacre of hundreds of Greek civilians at Kalavryta in December 1943.\n\nLike the massacre at Kragujevac, the Kraljevo massacre came to symbolize the brutality of the German occupation in Yugoslav popular memory. The historian Jozo Tomasevich describes the killings as \"the two most horrible outrages that the Germans committed in Serbia\" on the basis of Hitler's decree. The Kragujevac massacre remains better known than the one in Kraljevo, though both occurred around the same time and resulted in a similar number of deaths. This may be because schoolchildren were among the Kragujevac victims. Following the war, it was widely accepted that 7,000 civilians had been executed in Kragujevac and 6,000 had been executed in Kraljevo. The number of victims believed to have been killed in Kraljevo has since been reduced to around 2,000 by modern Serbian and German historians. A similar re-examining has taken place with regard to the massacre at Kragujevac, where both Serbian and German scholars agree that more than 2,700 civilians were killed. The total number of individuals killed in the two massacres is believed to be around 5,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "256698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=256698", "title": "Life estate", "text": "Life estate\n\nIn common law and statutory law, a life estate is the ownership of land for the duration of a person's life. In legal terms, it is an estate in real property that ends at death when ownership of the property may revert to the original owner, or it may pass to another person. The owner of a life estate is called a \"life tenant\".\n\nIn the combined jurisdiction of England and Wales since 1925 a freehold estate intended to be 'held' as a life interest takes effect only as an interest enjoyed in equity, specifically as an interest in possession trust. The other type of land ownership is leasehold and although most long leases are for a period of between 99 and 999 years 'leases for life' will be interpreted in often unpredictable ways as either as a licence or a lease.\n\nThe ownership of a life estate is of limited duration because it ends at the death of a person. Its owner is the life tenant (typically also the 'measuring life') and it carries with it right to enjoy certain benefits of ownership of the property, chiefly income derived from rent or other uses of the property and the right of occupation, during his or her possession. Because a life estate ceases to exist at the death of the measuring person's life, the life tenant, a temporary owner, may short-term let but cannot sell, give or bequeath the property indefinitely (including assuming it could pass to heirs (intestate) or creating a purported document leaving it to devisees (testate).\n\nA life estate \"pur autre vie\" (Law French, \"for the life of another\") is held for the rest of the lifetime of a person who does not hold the estate. This form of life estate arises where a life tenant has disposed of the property, assuming such a disposal does not trigger any special forfeiture under the life interest instrument. It also arises where the grantor chooses to make the measuring life that of someone other than the life tenant's life. A life estate \"pur autre vie\" is most commonly created in one of two circumstances.\n\nA clear distinction should be made with an estate for (a) term of years, interpreted as lease or licence.\n\nAt death, assuming no mis-dealings to certain innocent purchasers, the property involved in a life estate falls into the ownership of the remainderman ( \"remaindermen\") or reverts to its grantor (all of which confusingly can be called 'reversions' and 'reversioners'). There is a small market for reversions in real estate, which necessitates a buyer to carry out enhanced documentary due diligence and physical checks.\n\nA land owner of an estate cannot give a \"greater interest\" in the estate than he or she owns. That is, a life estate owner cannot give complete and indefinite ownership (fee simple) to another person because the life tenant's ownership in the property ends when the person who is the measuring life dies. For instance, if Ashley conveyed to Bob for the life of Bob, and Bob conveys a life estate to another person, Charlie, for Charlie's life [an embedded life estate], then Charlie's life estate interest would last only until Charlie or Bob dies. Charlie's life interest or \"pur autre vie\" interest (interest for the life of another, whichever has applied) and most often the remaining rights of ownership in the property (the 'reversionary interest') devolve to the persons under the terms of the will/rules of intestacy/declaration of trust/trust deed (UK) or will/rules of intestacy/'grant or deed of life interest' (or similar) (U.S.) in remainder or revert to the original grantee, depending on terms of Ashley. Such a life estate in the U.S. can also be conveyed for the life of the grantor, such as \"A conveys X to B until A dies\" and in the UK by trust transferring upon trust or assigning rather than conveying X.\n\nIf a life tenant purports to transfer the underlying 'reversionary' interest, which a life tenant never has, this constitutes an actionable breach of trust for damages and may constitute criminal fraud however may not entitle the ultimate reversioner (or substituted beneficiaries) to be able to obtain a court declaration that the property is their own if that property is in the hands of an innocent purchaser for value without notice (bona fide purchaser).\n\nFinancial and physical responsibility falls to the life tenant under the legal doctrine of waste, which prohibits life tenants from damaging or devaluing the asset. In short, as the life tenant's ownership is temporary, failing to maintain or reasonably protect the asset resulting in its diminution in value, or indeed, destruction constitutes a cause of action for the reversioner.\n\nA further limitation is the rule against perpetuities in many states and countries which prohibits long-running pre-19th-century style successions of life tenancies and may result in the premature and compensation-entitling termination of such successive life interests. In England and Wales this is fixed at one lifetime, or 80 years whichever is longer.\n\nSelling property while keeping a life estate is commonly known in France as \"viager\" where it is used more often than elsewhere, most famously in the case of Jeanne Calment the longest lived human ever recorded.\n\nIn the United States, a life estate is typically used as a tool of an estate planning. A life estate can avoid probate and ensure that an intended heir will receive title to real property. For example, Al owns a home and desires that Bill inherit it after Al's death. Al can effectuate that desire by transferring title to the home to Bill and retaining a life estate in the home. Al keeps a life estate and Bill receives a vested fee simple remainder. As soon as Al dies, the life estate interest merges with Bill's remainder, and Bill has a fee simple title. An advantage of such a transfer is that it makes the use of a will unnecessary and eliminates the need to probate the asset. A disadvantage is the small risk of a fraud on the part of beneficiary Bill, if he could easily show in a particular jurisdiction an unfettered fee simple, he could sell the estate prematurely to an innocent purchaser such as when Al is on vacation. A second disadvantage to the grantor is that provision for any remainderman (or men) (party C) is irrevocable without the remainderman's consent. \"Beneficiary deeds\" have been statutorily created in some states to address this issue.\n\nThe intestacy laws of certain American states, such as Arkansas, Delaware, and Rhode Island limit the surviving spouse's rights (inheritance) to the deceased spouse's real estate to a life estate. Louisiana applying an itemised (civil law) code has alike default provisions for succession, called usufruct.\n\nThe intestacy laws of England and Wales from 1 October 2014 provide for £250,000 (or the whole non-joint estate if less) and 50% of any excess to the spouse, remainder to adult children. This abolished the remaining 50% being enjoyed as a life interest which had applied from the 1920s.\n\nThe surviving spouse (and rarely, others) benefit from survivorship of any joint property.\n\nThe arrangement in the first paragraph would in the UK be interpreted as an interest in possession trust and is usually avoided as for inheritance tax is considered 'reservation of benefit' requiring fully backdated sums of annual income tax on whatever market rent ought to have been paid to the legal owner, in England and Wales for continued enjoyment of the asset.\n\nLife estates are measured either by the life of the property recipient (\"pur sa vie\"), or by the life of some other person (\"pur autre vie\").\n\nLife estates in real estate are still created today. The life estate is more commonly used in trust instruments, typically in an attempt to minimize the effect of the inheritance tax or other taxes on transfers of wealth. A prospective reduction in tax for the creator ('settlor') often follows if the settlor has parted with all current and future interest. However many tax codes transfer the burden of estate taxes to the holder of the interest in possession (life tenant) and may treat that person or the remaindermen as owning a second/surplus property.\n\nFormally where a system is derived from English law, the law divides into common law and equitable law — at their cores the formal title and further overarching rules (especially as to trust interests such as this). The latter cannot usually defeat a claim to title from a bona fide purchaser for value without notice, as such a person has reasonably researched the ownership position based upon the legal title (common law) position. As the owner of a legal interest, in the US, further embedded or legal interests consistent with the form of ownership can be created from life estates.\n\nAccordingly, due to their potential versatility and complexity in the U.S., common law seldom recognizes a life estate in personal property (tangible items and livestock other than land including buildings) but such interests are recognized at equity where of adequate form — statutes and regulations impose formalities on the creation of lifetime interests in personalty.\n\nSince 1925 registered titles in England and Wales preferably should, but mostly do not, reveal an 'interest for life', 'life estate' or 'life tenancy' in the form of a restriction on the register. Instead the registered legal owner may hold various degrees of leasehold or freehold interest, but usually absolute interest. This provides a reliable 'mirror of title' which can only be subjected to a very few overriding interests. A maxim of equity is 'Where equities are equal, the law will prevail'. Equity defers to the position at law of a \"bona fide\" purchaser for value without notice (including any tenant or mortgagee), and as 'equity will not suffer a wrong to be without remedy,' where there is such, will be limited to \"in personam\" remedies against the settlor or life tenant where it confirms life estates, upon trust, to have been validly created:\n\nLife tenants are never recorded as proprietors at the Land Registry as they are temporary, equitable owners and are not entitled to have the a transfer of the land effected. If the proprietor has died, executors of the will, administrators or beneficiaries all have the right to apply for the standard form A restriction and are encouraged by the official guidance to do so.\n\nIf a lease is for more than seven years, the lease must be registered. Most long leases are for a period of between 99 and 999 years, and 'leases for life' will be interpreted either as a licence or a lease.\nIn most Torrens Title jurisdictions a life tenant has, like in UK and US, the right to possession and enjoyment of the property, but once the tenant dies the property will return to the remainderman. The main difference is that, the life estate will be registered by the Registrar general of that jurisdiction, and will appear on the registered title. This has the effect of making them one of the 9 types of recognised interest in land, and one of the four that confirm possession. The registration process in Torrens title systems usually confers indefeasibility on the life estate.\n\nA holder of a life estate can alienate his rights, but they will still expire on his death, regardless of who he alienates it to. At that point, that buyer will have to forfeit the land.\n\n"}
{"id": "10525855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10525855", "title": "Litvinenko Justice Foundation", "text": "Litvinenko Justice Foundation\n\nLitvinenko Justice Foundation is a non-profit organization established to\ndemand justice for Alexander Litvinenko who was allegedly poisoned in London, United Kingdom on November 1, 2006.\n\nAccording to organizers, they will do “everything possible to make sure that suspects will stand trial in the U.K. and will not be shielded from justice by the Russian state.” \n\nThe Litvinenko Justice Foundation was founded by Alexander Litvinenko's widow, Marina, and his two friends, Boris Berezovsky and Alex Goldfarb. They were joined by a prominent human rights lawyer Louise Christian.\n\nThe Foundation was registered in London, United Kingdom on 2 March 2007. Initial funding was provided by Boris Berezovsky .\n\nAfter Marina Litvinenko was granted an inquest into the death of her husband in October 2011, the Foundation launched a public fundraising campaign to help her offset her legal costs. \n\n"}
{"id": "719575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=719575", "title": "May's theorem", "text": "May's theorem\n\nIn social choice theory, May's theorem states that simple majority voting is the only anonymous, neutral, and positively responsive social choice function between two alternatives. Further, this procedure is resolute when there are an odd number of voters and ties (indecision) are not allowed. Kenneth May first published this theory in 1952.\n\nVarious modifications have been suggested by others since the original publication. Mark Fey extended the proof to an infinite number of voters. Robert Goodin and Christian List showed that, among methods of aggregating first-preference votes over multiple alternatives, plurality rule uniquely satisfies May's conditions; under approval balloting, a similar statement can be made about approval voting.\n\nArrow's theorem in particular does not apply to the case of two candidates, so this possibility result can be seen as a mirror analogue of that theorem. (Note that anonymity is a stronger form of non-dictatorship.)\n\nAnother way of explaining the fact that simple majority voting can successfully deal with at most two alternatives is to cite Nakamura's theorem.\nThe theorem states that the number of alternatives that a rule can deal with successfully is less than the Nakamura number of the rule.\nThe Nakamura number of simple majority voting is 3, except in the case of four voters.\nSupermajority rules may have greater Nakamura numbers.\n\n\n\"Theorem:\" A group decision function with an odd number of voters meets conditions 1, 2, 3, and 4 if and only if it is the simple majority method.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12683127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12683127", "title": "Military history of the Neo-Assyrian Empire", "text": "Military history of the Neo-Assyrian Empire\n\nThe Neo-Assyrian Empire arose in the 10th century BC. Ashurnasirpal II is credited for utilizing sound strategy in his wars of conquest. While aiming to secure defensible frontiers, he would launch raids further inland against his opponents as a means of securing economic benefit, as he did when campaigning in the Levant. The result meant that the economic prosperity of the region would fuel the Assyrian war machine.\n\nAshurnasirpal II was succeeded by Shalmaneser III. Although he campaigned for 31 years of his 35-year reign, he failed to achieve or equal the conquests of his predecessor, and his death led to another period of weakness in Assyrian rule.\n\nAssyria would later recover under Tiglath Pileser III, whose reforms once again made Assyria the most powerful force in the Near East, and transformed it into a fully fledged empire – the first of its kind. Later, under Shalmaneser V, Sargon II and Sennacherib, further Assyrian offensives occurred, although these were designed not only for conquest, but also to destroy the enemies ability to undermine Assyrian power. As such, costly battles raged taking tolls on Assyrian manpower. Esarhaddon succeeded in taking lower Egypt and his successor, Ashurbanipal, took the southern upper half of Egypt.\n\nHowever, by the end of the Ashurbanipal's reign it appears that the Assyrian Empire was falling into another period of weakness, one from which it would not escape. It appears that years of costly battles followed by constant (and almost unstoppable) rebellions meant that it was a matter of time before Assyria ran out of troops. The loss of the outer regions meant that foreign troops were gone too. By 605 BC, independent political Assyrian records vanish from history and the Assyrians lost their independence forever.\n\nThe Assyrian empire has been described as the \"first military power in history\". Mesopotamia was the site of some of the earliest recorded battles in history. In fact, the first recorded battle was between the forces of Lagash and Umma c. 2450 BC. Like many Mesopotamian records, it contains elements of fiction. The ruler of Lagash, Eanatum, was inspired by the god Ningirsu to attack the rival kingdom of Umma; the two were involved in minor skirmishes and raids along their respective borders. Eanatum, although having triumphed, was struck in the eye by an arrow. After the battle, he proudly documented the behavior of the vultures.\n\nThe earliest Old Assyrian king Tudiya was a contemporary of Ibrium of Ebla. It evolved from the Akkadian Empire of the late 3rd millennium BC. Assyria was a strong nation under the rule of Ilushuma (1945–1906 BC), who founded colonies in Asia Minor and raided Isin and other Sumero-Akkadian states in southern Mesopotamia. \n\nAccording to legend, Sargon, the first king of the Akkadian Kingdom, was discovered by a gardener in Mesopotamia in a basket. In time, he would found the city of Agade and raise an army of 5,400 men, and then conquer much of modern-day Iraq. His inscriptions boast of 34 victories and \"5,400 men eating bread before Sargon\", exemplifying both the vast manpower and the obedience of his troops (and possibly a standing army as well). Though small by the standards of later kings, Sargon's army was larger and more sophisticated than others of the time, utilizing a combination of spears and missile weapons. Bronze swords and four wheeled chariots brushed aside any resistance as he carved out his empire, which may well have included (at least briefly) parts of the Mediterranean, Anatolia and western Iran. Siege warfare was not a problem; most of the cities that were walled at the time of Sargon were made of mud and his inscriptions further boast of the destruction he brought on their walls.\n\nUnder Shamshi-Adad I (1813–1791 BC) and his successor Ishme-Dagan (1790–1754 BC), Assyria was the seat of a regional empire controlling northern Mesopotamia and regions in Asia Minor and northern Syria. From 1365 to 1076 BC, Assyria became a major empire and world power, rivalling Egypt. Kings such as Ashur-uballit I (1365–1330 BC), Enlil-nirari (1329–1308 BC), Arik-den-ili (c. 1307–1296 BC), Adad-nirari I (1295–1275 BC), Shalmaneser I (1274–1245 BC), Tukulti-Ninurta I (1244–1208 BC), Ashur-resh-ishi I (1133–1116 BC) and Tiglath-Pileser I (1115–1077 BC) forged an empire which at its peak stretched from the Mediterranean Sea to the Caspian Sea, and from the foothills of the Caucasus to Arabia. The 11th and 10th centuries BC were a dark age for the entire Near East, North Africa, Caucasus, Mediterranean and Balkan regions, with great upheavals and mass movements of people. Despite the apparent weakness of Assyria, at heart it remained a solid, well defended nation whose warriors were the best in the world. Assyria, with its stable monarchy and secure borders, was in a stronger position during this time than potential rivals such as Egypt, Babylonia, Elam, Phrygia, Urartu, Persia and Media Beginning with the campaigns of Adad-nirari II (911–892 BC).\n\nInformation on the Assyrian army during this time is difficult to make out. The Assyrians were able to establish their independence on two occasions, during the Old Assyrian Kingdom and the Middle Assyrian Kingdom, with the latter reaching as far as Babylon in their pursuit of conquest. However, military tactics mainly involved using troops raised from farmers who had finished planting their fields and so could campaign for the king until harvest time called for their attention again. The result was that military campaigning was limited to a few months of the year. As a result, armies could not conquer vast amounts of land without having to rest (and hence allow their enemy to recover) and even if they did they would not be able to garrison conquered lands with troops for long.\n\nThe Assyrian army's hierarchy was typical of the Mesopotamian armies at the time. The King whose rule was sanctioned by the gods, would be the commander of the entire army of the Empire. He would appoint senior officers on certain occasions to campaign in his place if his presence on the battlefield could or had to be spared.\n\nBefore the reforms of Tiglath-Pileser III, the Assyrian army was also very much similar to the other Mesopotamian armies of the time. Soldiers were mostly raised farmers, who had to return to their fields to collect the harvest. Professional soldiers were limited to a few bodyguards that protected the King and or other nobles and officials but these would not have been deployed or wasted in battle unless the situation became urgent, as it later did.\n\nAssyrian armies could be very large; Shalmaneser III once boasted a force of 120,000 men in his campaigns against Syria. Such a force required men to be extracted from conquered peoples. A large army also needed more food and supplies and for this the Assyrians organized what they needed for a campaign before they set out.\n\nPreparations for a new campaign required first and foremost the assembly of troops at a designated base. In Assyria, the designated locations included Nineveh, Kalhu or Khorsabad. On some occasions the designated meeting points would change depending upon the campaign. Governors were instructed to accumulate supplies of grain, oil and war material. Other requirements of the Governors included calling up the needed manpower. Vassal states were in particular required to present troops as part of their tribute to the Assyrian king and in good time: failure to do so would have almost certainly been seen as an act of rebellion.\n\nThe arrival of the King and his bodyguard ended the preliminary stage and the army would move on to the target of their campaign. The army would march in good order; in the vanguard came the standard of the Gods, signifying the servitude of the Assyrian Kings to their primary God Assur. Following this was the King, the humble servant of Assur surrounded by his bodyguard with the support of the main chariot divisions and cavalry, the elite of the army. In the rear was the infantry; the Assyrian troops followed by the conquered peoples. Following this would be the siege train, supply wagons and then the camp followers. Such a formation would have been very vulnerable to a rear attack. Some columns of troops could travel 30 miles a day and such speed would have been used to surprise and frighten an opponent into submission.\n\nBefore long, the weaknesses of the Assyrian army soon began to show itself. Battle after battle killed off important soldiers, while the seasons ensured that soldiers returned after a short time to their fields without achieving decisive conquests. By the mid-8th century BC, the Assyrian levy-army could not cope with the demands of an empire that often stretched from the Mediterranean Sea to the Persian Gulf.\n\nAll was to change when Tiglath Pileser III came to the throne in 745 BC. After increasing the efficiency of the Assyrian administration, he went on to change the Assyrian army as well. The most important aspect of his reform was the introduction of a standing army. This included a larger number of foreign soldiers but mixed in with other Assyrian soldiers. These men could be supplied by vassal states as tribute or when demanded by the Assyrian King. They were given Assyrian equipment and uniform which made them indistinguishable from one another, possibly to increase their integration. While the infantry in the standing army contained a large number of foreigners (including Aramaeans and even Greeks), the Assyrian cavalry and charioteers continued to be dominated by Assyrians. There were exceptions however, and as casualties mounted additional troops would not be unwelcome; Sargon II reports that he managed to incorporate 60 Israelite chariot teams into his army.\n\nWith the rise of the Assyrian Empire, new demands were placed on transport and communication. Prior to the Neo-Assyrian Empire, roads in Mesopotamia were little more than well-trodden pathways used by the locals. However, this was inadequate for an empire whose armies were constantly on the move, repressing one revolt after another. The Assyrians were the first to institute, control and maintain a system of roads throughout their empire. A state communnication system with regular way stations for messengers to rest and/or exchange mounts were established. Later, these would form the basis for the Persians to expand this system to their own empire.\n\nRugged mountains were cut through thus greatly decreasing travel time. Engineers built fine stone pavements leading up to the grand cities of Assur and Nineveh, so as to impress foreigners with the wealth of Assyria. By the 2nd millennium BC, wooden bridges were built across the Euphrates. By the 1st millennium BC, Nineveh and Assur had stone bridges, testament to the wealth of the kingdom of Ashur. The construction of roads and increased transport meant that goods would flow through the empire with greater ease, thus feeding the Assyrian war effort further. Of course, roads that sped up Assyrian troops would not discriminate and would speed up enemy troops as well.\n\nThe Assyrians were the first to use camels as beasts of burden for their military campaigns. Camels were of greater use than donkeys because they can carry five times the load and yet require less watering. Camels were not domesticated until shortly before 1000 BC, on the eve of the Neo-Assyrian Empire. The first camel to be domesticated was the dromedary.\n\nTraditionally, the Sumerians are credited for inventing the wheel sometime before 3000 BC, although there is increasing evidence to support an Indo-European origin in the Black Sea region of Ukraine (Wolchover, Scientific American, 2012). In any case, the Assyrians were the first to manufacture tires of metal, made from copper, bronze and later iron. Metal-covered wheels have the advantage of being more durable.\n\n\n\nThe core of the Assyrian army lay in its chariots. Originally these chariots were used as two-horse vehicles. The Ancient Egyptians and Sumerians used war chariots in this fashion as firing mobile platforms or as mobile command platforms; the elevated view would give the general some ability to see how the troops fared in battle. The Assyrians also used chariots in reconnaissance, carrying messages to and from the front lines, and for battle. However, the rise of cavalry in the 1st millennium BC meant that by the 7th century BC, the chariot was demoted to combat duties only; lighter chariots consisting of two to three horses were later upgraded under the reign of Ashurnasirpal II to heavy four horse chariots. Such chariots could contain up to four men. Heavier chariots also found new roles, smashing into enemy formations and dispersing the infantry in the process. The Assyrian cavalry and infantry would then be able to exploit the gap and rout the enemy, thereby taking the battlefield.\n\nCavalry were rarely used by the Assyrians or many other Mesopotamians until the 9th century BC, when their use is mentioned during the reign of Tukulti-Ninurta II. Before then, many nomads or steppe warriors relied on cavalry, who raided Assyrian lands. The Assyrians had to counter this mobile form of warfare and so beat their opponents, notably the Iranians, at their own game. Perhaps the greatest outside influence is that of the Iranian Medes. It is ironic that the raiding by that people assisted Assyrian attempts in building a cavalry army with which to destroy the Kingdom of Elam. However, Assyrian attempts were not without difficulties; horse archers were used but could not use their bows and the reins of their horses at the same time. As a result, cavalry under Ashurnasirpal are depicted in pairs, with one rider holding both reins and the other shooting with a bow. The Assyrians experienced fewer problems with cavalry when they were deployed as lancers; under Tiglath Pileser III, the Assyrian Cavalry continued to be paired but this time each warrior held his own lance and controlled his own horse. By the 7th century BC, mounted Assyrian warriors were well armed with a bow and a lance, and armored with lamellar armour, while their mounts were equipped with fabric armour, providing limited yet useful protection in close combat and against missiles. Cavalry were to form the core of the later Assyrian armies.\n\nLarge units of cavalry were required to be deployed by the Assyrians; some units consisted of hundreds or even a thousand horsemen. There is little doubt that without a continuous supply of horses, the Assyrian war machine would have collapsed. As the empire suffered horrendous casualties under Ashurbanipal's campaigns of conquest, the rebellions following his death may have contributed significantly to the downfall of the empire as fewer vassals were available to pay tribute horses and other war material needed. Horses were a very important war resource and the Assyrian king himself took a personal interest in overseeing an adequate horse supply.Three main sources of horses were:\n\nHorses were be drawn from outlying provinces and brought in to be trained with new recruits for war.\nWhile cavalry provided the most expensive and effective arm of the Assyrian Empire, infantry were cheaper and more numerous. In the right circumstances, they were also more effective, for example in siege warfare where the mobility provided by horsemen would be of no advantage.\nAssyrian infantry were composed of both native Assyrians and foreigners employed as auxiliaries, spearmen, slingers, shield bearers or archers. The latter type was the most dominant in Assyrian armies. From the time of Ashurnasirpal, archers would be accompanied by a shield bearer while slingers would aim to distract the enemy into lowering their shield to protect against the stones, thereby allowing the archers to shoot above their shield walls and slay their enemies. Even in siege warfare, arrows were used to drive back defenders from the wall while engineers advanced against the fortifications. Many different types of bows are recorded by the Assyrians, including Akkadian, Cimmerian and their own \"Assyrian\" type. However, it is most likely that these were simply different variants of the powerful composite bow. Depending upon the bow, an archer would have a range of anything between 250 to 650 meters. Vast numbers of arrows could be expended in battle so in preparation for war many arrows would be made. Facilities also existed that would travel with the army's supply train that could manufacture more arrows. \n\nLancers were introduced to the infantry under Tiglath-pileser III. Depictions of infantry with special bronze scale metal protection are rare and reconstructions show the smallest vests to weigh as much as 20 pounds / 9 kg with armoured suits up to the ankles tripling that weight of metal and leather.\n\nAssyrian frontal offensives were designed to shock the enemy and surprise them. However, they were also a strategy employed when time was not on their side:\n\nDespite the above, Sargon II's instinct saved the day; leading his exhausted troops, he launched a surprise attack against his Urartian opponents who broke at the speed and surprise of the attack. So vicious was the battle that the Urartian King abandoned his state officials, governors, 230 members of the royal family, many cavalry and infantry, and even the capital itself.\n\nThe nature of Mesopotamia; plain and fertile with few natural defenses meant that defensive operations were out of the question; only a decisive attack could defend such vulnerable yet valuable locations. The cities of Assur and Nineveh were both \"sandwiched\" between rivers, Nineveh being more so enclosed and protected by the Tigris while Assur, while being close to the Tigris, was a fair distance away from the Euphrates. The result was that both cities had a measure of natural protection. However, rivers would not stop a determined army so attacking and destroying the enemies' ability to wage war was the best method of ensuring survival. To this end the Assyrians sought a decisive encounter that would destroy the enemies' army.\n\nColonization: The Assyrians, in conjunction with their deportation (see below) would also send some of their own into foreign lands and settle them as colonists. The primary aim was to establish a loyal power base; taxes, food and troops could be raised here as reliably as at their homeland, or at least it must have been hoped. Furthermore, their presence would bring innumerable benefits; resistance to other conquerors, a counter to any rebellions by the natives and assist the provincial Assyrian governors in ensuring that the vassal state was loyal to Assyria.\n\nTotal Destruction: One must be careful before assuming that the Assyrians utilized total war. However, it is known that the Assyrians, as part of their overall strategy of weakening their opponents and of exacting revenge, would violently destroy what they could not take back or could not consolidate.:\n\nThe Assyrians fully appreciated the use of terrorizing their enemies. To conserve manpower and rapidly move on to solve Assyria's multiple problems, the Assyrians preferred to accept the surrender of their opponents or else destroy their ability to resist a surrender. This in part explains their offensive strategy and tactics.\n\nIt is not known if the Assyrians were the first to deport people, although since none before had ruled the Fertile Crescent as they did it is likely that they were the first to practice it on a large scale. The Assyrians began to utilize mass-deportation as a punishment for rebellions since the 13th century BC. The purposes of deportation included, but were not limited to:\n\n1) Psychological warfare: the possibility of deportation would have terrorized the people;<br>\n2) Integration: a multi-ethnic population base in each region would have curbed nationalist sentiment, making the running of the Empire smoother;<br>\n3) Preservation of human resources: rather than being butchered, the people could serve as slave labor or as conscripts in the army.\n\nBy the 9th century BC, the Assyrians made it a habit of regularly deporting thousands of restless subjects to other lands. Re-settling these people in the Assyrian homeland would have undermined the powerbase of the Assyrian Empire if they rebelled again. As a result, Assyrian deportation involved removing one enemy population and settling them into another. Below is a list of deportations carried out by Assyrian Kings:\n\n\nTiglath Pileser III re-introduced deportation on a grand scale, deporting tens, even hundreds of thousands of people. Deportations were also coupled with colonization; see above for more details.\n\nWhenever a rebellion broke out in the Assyrian empire, the Assyrian kings inevitably brutally crushed it (as an alternative to deportation) and enforced great punishments on the rebellious vassals. Ashurnasirpal II assured that the rebellions whom he encountered would be crushed with the same cruelty so that his opponents would never do it again. In one of his expeditions, Ashurnasirpal II described how he faced the rebels, in which they were being flayed, impaled, decapitated, or burned alive:\n\nThe brutal treatment of Ashurnasirpal II succeeded in pacifying the rebels. While campaigning in Syria, he was able to take a large number of soldiers from Mesopotamia, without fear of a rebellion cutting off their supply lines. They were so successful in their brutality in the northern cities of Syria in that many of the smaller settlements were immediately handed over to their troops, then they marched south in parallel of the Mediterranean.\n\nThe Assyrians considered their kings as ruling with the gods’ (or the god Ashur) sanction. To rebel against this most humble servant of Ashur, it means defying Ashur himself, something that could only bring divine destruction; therefore, the glorification of such brutality.\n\nOther acts of brutality are: rape, mutilation of men to death, putting heads, arms, hands and lips even down the walls of the conquered city, skulls and noses on the top at stakes. Alternatively corpses can also be stacked or even being cut and fed to the dogs. On some occasions, blinding people in that as they roam around talking about the Assyrian terrors to demoralize the local population.\n\nIn 647 BC, the Assyrian king Assurbanipal leveled the city during a war in which the people of Susa apparently participated on the other side. A tablet unearthed in 1854 by Austen Henry Layard in Nineveh reveals Ashurbanipal as an \"avenger\", seeking retribution for the humiliations the Elamites had inflicted on the Mesopotamians over the centuries. Ashurbanipal dictates Assyrian retribution after his successful siege of Susa:\n\nThe plains and fertile lands of Mesopotamia were not only ideal for warfare but actually attracted war. Raiders from all nations coveted the lands of the Assyrians: Scythians to the north, Syrians, Arameans and Cimmerians to the West, Elamites to the East and Babylonians to the south. In fact, the latter never tired of rebelling against Assyrian rule. As a result, in order to prevent chariots and cavalry from completely overwhelming these settlements, walls were constructed though often from mud or clay since stone was neither cheap, nor readily available. In order to destroy the opponents, these cities had to be taken as well and so the Assyrians soon mastered siege warfare; Esarhaddon claims to have taken Memphis, the capital of Egypt in less than a day, demonstrating the ferocity and skill of Assyrian siege tactics at this point in time:\n\nSieges were costly in terms of manpower and more so if an assault was launched to take the city by force—the siege of Lachish cost the Assyrians at least 1,500 men found at a mass grave near Lachish. Before the advent of standing armies, a city's best hope would be that the harvest would force the enemy to return to their fields and therefore abandon the city. However, with the reforms of Tiglath Pileser III Assyria's first standing army was forged and could therefore blockade a city until it surrendered instead. Nonetheless it is known that Assyrians always preferred to take a city by assault than to settle down for a blockade: the former method would be followed by extermination or deportation of the inhabitants and would therefore frighten the opponents of Assyria into surrendering as well.\n\nThe most common siege weapon and by far the cheapest was the ladder. However, ladders are easy to topple over and so the Assyrians would shower their opponents with arrows to provide cover fire. These archers in turn would be supported by shield bearers. Other ways of undermining the enemies' defences included mining. A 9th-century Assyrian relief depicts soldiers using ladders to scale walls, while others use their spears to scrape the mud and clay from the walls. A soldier is also depicted beneath a wall, suggesting that mining was used to undermine the foundations and bring the walls down on their opponents.\n\nThe battering ram appears to be one of the best Assyrian contributions to siege warfare. Although looking nothing like the tougher weapons used by the Greeks and Romans many centuries later, they nonetheless served their purpose. They consisted of a tank-like wooden frame on four wheels. There was a small tower on top for archers to provide covering fire as the engine moved forward. When it had reached its destination, its primary weapon, a large spear, was used to batter away and chip pieces of the enemy wall. While this would have been almost useless against stone walls, one must keep in mind that mud and not stone was used to build walls. Even when dried, these mud walls could be attacked with such engines. Walls were strengthened with time and the Assyrians responded by building larger engines with bigger \"spears\". In time, they closely resembled a large and long log with a metal tip at the end. Even stone would not withstand pounding by a larger weapon. Larger engines accommodated greater numbers of archers. To protect against fire (which was used by both sides at the Siege of Lachish) the battering ram would be covered in wet animal skins. These could be watered at any time in battle in case they dried.\n\nSiege towers, even ones that could float were reported to have been in use whenever there was a wall facing a river.\n\n\nCavalry use first recorded by Tukulti Ninurta II\n\n\n\n\nCollapse of Assyria\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "216440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216440", "title": "Mohammad Mosaddegh", "text": "Mohammad Mosaddegh\n\nMohammad Mosaddegh (; ; 16 June 1882 – 5 March 1967) was the 35th prime minister of Iran. He was an Iranian politician and the head of a government that was removed in 1953 by a CIA-backed coup, holding office as the Prime Minister of Iran from 1951 until 1953, when his government was overthrown in a coup d'état orchestrated by the United States' Central Intelligence Agency and the United Kingdom's MI6.\n\nAn author, administrator, lawyer and prominent parliamentarian, his administration introduced a range of social and political measures such as social security, land reforms and higher taxes including the introduction of taxation of the rent on land. His government's most significant policy, however, was the nationalization of the Iranian oil industry, which had been built by the British on Persian lands since 1913 through the Anglo-Persian Oil Company (APOC/) (later British Petroleum and BP).\n\nMany Iranians regard Mosaddegh as the leading champion of secular democracy and resistance to foreign domination in Iran's modern history. Mosaddegh was removed from power in a coup on 19 August 1953, organized and carried out by the CIA at the request of MI6, which chose Iranian General Fazlollah Zahedi to succeed Mosaddegh.\n\nWhile the coup is at times referred to in the West as Operation Ajax after its CIA cryptonym, in Iran it is referred to as the 28 Mordad 1332 Coup d'état, after its date on the Iranian calendar. Mosaddegh was imprisoned for three years, then put under house arrest until his death and was buried in his own home so as to prevent a political furor. In 2013, the U.S. government formally acknowledged the U.S. role in the coup, as a part of its foreign policy initiatives. \n\nMosaddegh was born to a prominent Persian family of high officials in Tehran on 16 June 1882; his father, Mirza Hideyatu'llah Ashtiani, was a finance minister under the Qajar dynasty, and his mother, Princess Malek Taj Najm-es-Saltaneh, was the granddaughter of the reformist Qajar prince Abbas Mirza, and a great-granddaughter of Fath-Ali Shah Qajar. When Mosaddegh's father died in 1892, his uncle was appointed the tax collector of the Khorasan province and was bestowed with the title of Mosaddegh-os-Saltaneh by Nasser al-Din Shah. Mosaddegh himself later bore the same title, by which he was still known to some long after titles were abolished.\n\nIn 1901, Mosaddegh married Zahra Khanum (1879–1965), a granddaughter of Nasser al-Din Shah through her mother. The couple had five children, two sons (Ahmad and Ghulam Hussein) and three daughters (Mansura, Zia Ashraf, and Khadija).\n\nIn 1909, Mosaddegh pursued education abroad in Paris, France where he studied law at the Institut d'études politiques de Paris (Sciences Po). He studied there for 2 years, returning to Iran because of illness in 1911. After 5 months, Mosaddegh returned to Europe to study a Doctorate of Laws (\"doctorate en Droit\") at the University of Neuchâtel in Switzerland. In June 1913, Mosaddegh received his doctorate and in doing so became the first Iranian to receive a Ph.D. in Law from a European university.\n\nMosaddegh taught at the Tehran School of Political Science at the start of World War I before beginning his political career.\n\nMosaddegh started his political career with the Iranian Constitutional Revolution of 1905-07. At the age of 24, he was elected from Isfahan to the newly inaugurated Persian Parliament, the Majlis of Iran. However, he was unable to assume his seat, because he had not reached the legal age of 30.\n\nDuring this period he also served as deputy leader of the Society of Humanity, under Mostowfi ol-Mamalek. In protest at the Anglo-Persian Treaty of 1919, he relocated to Switzerland, from where he returned the following year after being invited by the new Iranian prime minister, Hassan Pirnia (Moshir-ed-Dowleh), to become his minister of justice. While en route to Tehran, he was asked by the people of Shiraz to become the governor of the Fars Province. He was later appointed finance minister, in the government of Ahmad Qavam (Qavam os-Saltaneh) in 1921, and then foreign minister in the government of Moshir-ed-Dowleh in June 1923. He then became governor of the Azerbaijan Province. In 1923, he was re-elected to the Majlis.\n\nIn 1925, the supporters of Reza Khan in the Majlis proposed legislation to dissolve the Qajar dynasty and appoint Reza Khan the new Shah. Mossadegh voted against such a move, arguing that such an act was a subversion of the 1906 Iranian constitution. He gave a speech in the Majlis, praising Reza Khan's achievements as prime minister while encouraging him to respect the constitution and stay as the prime minister. On 12 December 1925, the Majlis deposed the young Shah Ahmad Shah Qajar, and declared Reza Shah the new monarch of the Imperial State of Persia, and the first Shah of the Pahlavi dynasty. Mosaddegh then retired from politics, due to disagreements with the new regime.\n\nIn 1941, Reza Shah Pahlavi was forced by the British to abdicate in favor of his son Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. In 1944, Mosaddegh was once again elected to parliament. This time he took the lead of \"Jebhe Melli\" (National Front of Iran, created in 1949), an organization he had founded with nineteen others such as Hossein Fatemi, Ahmad Zirakzadeh, Ali Shayegan and Karim Sanjabi, aiming to establish democracy and end the foreign presence in Iranian politics, especially by nationalizing the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company's (AIOC) operations in Iran. In 1947 Mossadegh once again announced retirement, after an electoral-reform bill he had proposed failed to pass through Majlis.\n\nOn 28 April 1951, the Shah appointed Mossadegh as Prime Minister after the Majlis (Parliament of Iran) nominated Mosaddegh by a vote of 79–12. The Shah was aware of Mosaddegh's rising popularity and political power, after a period of assassinations by Fada'iyan-e Islam and political unrest by the National Front. Demonstrations erupted in Tehran after Mosaddegh's appointment, with crowds further invigorated by the speeches of members from the National Front. There was a special focus on the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company and the heavy involvement of foreign actors and influences in Iranian affairs. Despite the fact that Iran was never a colony or a protectorate, it was still heavily controlled by foreign powers beginning with concessions provided by the Qajar Shahs, and leading up to the oil agreement signed by Reza Shah in 1933.\n\nThe new administration introduced a wide range of social reforms: unemployment compensation was introduced, factory owners were ordered to pay benefits to sick and injured workers, and peasants were freed from forced labor in their landlords' estates. in 1952, Mossadegh passed the Land Reform Act which forced landlords to turn over 20% of their revenues to their tenants. These revenues could be placed in a fund to pay for development projects such as public baths, rural housing, and pest control.\n\nOn 1 May, Mosaddegh nationalized the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, canceling its oil concession (expired in 1993) and expropriating its assets. Mossadegh saw the AIOC as an arm of the British government controlling much of the oil in Iran, pushing him to seize what the British had built for Iran.. The next month, a committee of five majlis deputies was sent to Khuzistan to enforce the nationalization. Mosaddegh tried to justify his nationalization policy by claiming Iran was “the rightful owner...” of all the oil in Iran, and also pointing out Iran could use the money, in a 21 June 1951 speech:\n\nThe confrontation between Iran and Britain escalated as Mosaddegh's government refused to allow the British any involvement in their former enterprise, and Britain made sure Iran could sell no oil, which is considered stolen. In July, Mosaddegh broke off negotiations with AIOC after it threatened to \"pull out its employees\", and told owners of oil tanker ships that \"receipts from the Iranian government would not be accepted on the world market.\" Two months later the AIOC evacuated its technicians and closed down the oil installations. Under nationalized management, many refineries lacked the trained technicians that were needed to continue production. The British government announced a \"de facto\" blockade, reinforced its naval force in the Persian Gulf and lodged complaints against Iran before the United Nations Security Council.\n\nThe British government also threatened legal action against purchasers of oil produced in the formerly British refineries seized by Iran and obtained an agreement with its sister international oil companies not to fill in where the AIOC was boycotting Iran. The entire Iranian oil industry came to a virtual standstill, oil production dropping from in 1950 to in 1952. This Abadan Crisis reduced Iran's oil income to almost nothing, putting a severe strain on the implementation of Mosaddegh's promised domestic reforms. At the same time, BP and Aramco doubled their production in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Iraq, to make up for lost production in Iran so that no hardship was felt in Britain.\n\nStill enormously popular in late 1951, Mosaddegh called elections. His base of support was in urban areas and not in the provinces. This fact was reflected in the rejection of Mosaddegh's bill for electoral reform (which no longer disqualified illiterates from electoral participation) by the conservative bloc, on the grounds that it would \"unjustly discriminate patriots who had been voting for the last forty years\".\n\nAccording to Ervand Abrahamian: \"Realizing that the opposition would take the vast majority of the provincial seats, Mosaddegh stopped the voting as soon as 79 deputies – just enough to form a parliamentary quorum—had been elected.\" An alternative account is offered by Stephen Kinzer. Beginning in the early 1950s under the guidance of C.M. Woodhouse, chief of the British intelligence station in Tehran, Britain's covert operations network had funneled roughly £10,000 per month to the Rashidian brothers (two of Iran's most influential royalists) in the hope of buying off, according to CIA estimates, \"the armed forces, the Majlis (Iranian parliament), religious leaders, the press, street gangs, politicians and other influential figures\". Thus, in his statement asserting electoral manipulation by \"foreign agents\", Mosaddegh suspended the elections. His National Front party had made up 30 of the 79 deputies elected. Yet none of those present vetoed the statement, and the elections were postponed indefinitely. The 17th Majlis convened on February 1952.\n\nThroughout Mossadegh's career, he strove to increase the power the people held versus the power of the crown. In 1952, he was granted emergency powers by the Majlis which he used to diminish the amount of power the Shah held at the time. He used these powers to place the control of the armed forces under the government, to decrease the size of the armed forces, and introduce land reforms with a more socialist approach.\n\nTension soon began to escalate in the Majlis. Conservative opponents refused to grant Mosaddegh special powers to deal with the economic crisis caused by the sharp drop in revenue and voiced regional grievances against the capital Tehran, while the National Front waged \"a propaganda war against the landed upper class\".\n\nOn 16 July 1952, during the royal approval of his new cabinet, Mosaddegh insisted on the constitutional prerogative of the Prime Minister to name a Minister of War and the Chief of Staff, something the Shah had done up to that point. The Shah refused, seeing it as a means for Mosaddegh to consolidate his power over the government at the expense of the monarchy. In response, Mosaddegh announced his resignation appealing directly to the public for support, pronouncing that \"in the present situation, the struggle started by the Iranian people cannot be brought to a victorious conclusion\".\n\nVeteran politician Ahmad Qavam (also known as Ghavam os-Saltaneh) was appointed as Iran's new Prime Minister. On the day of his appointment, he announced his intention to resume negotiations with the British to end the oil dispute, a reversal of Mosaddegh's policy. The National Front—along with various Nationalist, Islamist, and socialist parties and groups—including Tudeh—responded by calling for protests, assassinations of the Shah and other royalists, strikes and mass demonstrations in favor of Mosaddegh. Major strikes broke out in all of Iran's major towns, with the Bazaar closing down in Tehran. Over 250 demonstrators in Tehran, Hamadan, Ahvaz, Isfahan, and Kermanshah were killed or suffered serious injuries.\n\nAfter five days of mass demonstrations on \"Siyeh-i Tir\" (the 30th of Tir on the Iranian calendar), military commanders ordered their troops back to barracks, fearful of overstraining the enlisted men's loyalty and left Tehran in the hands of the protesters. Frightened by the unrest, Shah dismissed Qavam and re-appointed Mosaddegh, granting him the full control of the military he had previously demanded.\n\nMore popular than ever, a greatly strengthened Mosaddegh convinced parliament to grant him emergency powers for six months to \"decree any law he felt necessary for obtaining not only financial solvency, but also electoral, judicial, and educational reforms\". Majlis deputies elected Ayatollah Abol-Ghasem Kashani as House Speaker. Kashani's Islamic scholars, as well as the Tudeh Party, proved to be two of Mosaddegh's key political allies, although relations with both were often strained.\n\nWith his emergency powers, Mosaddegh tried to strengthen his newly-established autocracy by limiting the monarchy's powers, cutting the Shah's personal budget, forbidding him to communicate directly with foreign diplomats, transferring royal lands back to the state and expelling the Shah's politically active sister Ashraf Pahlavi.\n\nIn January 1953, Mosaddegh successfully pressed Parliament to extend his emergency powers for another 12 months. With these powers, he decreed a land reform law that established village councils and increased the peasants' share of production. This weakened the landed aristocracy, abolishing Iran's centuries-old feudal agriculture sector, replacing it with a system of collective farming and government land ownership, which centralized power in his government. Mosaddegh saw these reforms as a means of checking the power of the Tudeh Party, which had been agitating for general land reform among the peasants. The Tudeh, on the other hand, quietly approved the short-circuiting of Iran’s nascent democratic institutions in the hope the newly created dictatorial powers would soon fall into their hands.\n\nHowever, during this time Iranians were \"becoming poorer and unhappier by the day\" thanks to the British boycott. As Mosaddegh's political coalition began to fray, his enemies increased in number.\n\nPartly through the efforts of Iranians sympathizing with the British, and partly in fear of the growing dictatorial powers of the Prime Minister, several former members of Mosaddegh's coalition turned against him, fearing arrest. They included Mozzafar Baghai, head of the worker-based Toilers party; Hossein Makki, who had helped lead the takeover of the Abadan refinery and was at one point considered Mosaddegh's heir apparent; and most outspokenly Ayatollah Kashani, who damned Mosaddegh with the \"vitriol he had once reserved for the British\".On the other hands, the reason for difference of opinion among Makki and Mosaddegh was the sharp response of Mosaddegh to Kashani who was inoffensive scholar that attract the public supports, as Makki said. Hossein Makki strongly opposed the dissolution of the parliament by Mossadegh and evaluated in the long run at his loss because with the closure of the parliament, the right to dismiss the Prime minister was made by the Shah.\n\nThe British government had grown increasingly distressed over Mosaddegh's policies and were especially bitter over the loss of their control of the Iranian oil industry. Repeated attempts to reach a settlement had failed, and, in October 1952, Mosaddegh declared Britain an enemy and cut all diplomatic relations.\nUntil 1935; the Anglo-Persian Oil co had the exclusive rights to Iranian oil. in 1914, the British government controlled 51% of its shares and became a major shareholder. After converting Britain's fuel ships to oil, the corporation was considered vital to British national security and the company’s profits partially alleviated Britain’s budget deficit. Unsurprisingly, many Iranians resented the company's privileges and demanded a fair share of its takings.\n\nEngulfed in a variety of problems following World War II, Britain was unable to resolve the issue single-handedly and looked towards the United States to settle the matter. Initially, the USA had opposed British policies. After mediation had failed several times to bring about a settlement, American Secretary of State Dean Acheson concluded that the British were \"destructive, and determined on a rule-or-ruin policy in Iran.\"\n\nThe American position shifted in late 1952 when Dwight D. Eisenhower was elected U.S. President. In November and December, British intelligence officials suggested to American intelligence that the prime minister should be ousted. British prime minister Winston Churchill suggested to the incoming Eisenhower administration that Mossadegh, despite his open disgust with socialism, was, or would become, dependent on the pro-Soviet Tudeh Party, resulting in Iran \"increasingly turning towards communism\" and towards the Soviet sphere at a time of high Cold War fears. After the Eisenhower administration had entered office in early 1953, the United States and the United Kingdom agreed to work together toward Mosaddegh's removal and began to publicly denounce Mosaddegh's policies for Iran as harmful to the country. In the meantime, the already precarious alliance between Mosaddegh and Kashani was severed in January 1953, when Kashani opposed Mosaddegh's demand that his increased powers be extended for a period of one year. Finally, to eliminate Mossadegh's threat to prevent cheap oil supply to the West and the withdrawal of profitable oil reserves from the hands of Western companies, the US made an attempt to depose him. The domination of US over Iran was reminiscent of the access cancellation of Soviet to Persian Gulf. So the geographic location of Iran became important for the US.\n\nIn March 1953, Secretary of State John Foster Dulles directed the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), which was headed by his younger brother Allen Dulles, to draft plans to overthrow Mossadegh. On 4 April 1953, Allen Dulles approved $1 million to be used \"in any way that would bring about the fall of Mosaddegh\". Soon the CIA's Tehran station started to launch a propaganda campaign against Mossadegh. Finally, according to \"The New York Times\", in early June, American and British intelligence officials met again, this time in Beirut, and put the finishing touches on the strategy. Soon afterward, according to his later published accounts, the chief of the CIA's Near East and Africa division, Kermit Roosevelt, Jr. the grandson of U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt, arrived in Tehran to direct it. In 2000, \"The New York Times\" made partial publication of a leaked CIA document titled \"Clandestine Service History – Overthrow of Premier Mosaddegh of Iran – November 1952-August 1953\".\n\nThe plot, known as Operation Ajax, centered on convincing Iran's monarch to issue a decree to dismiss Mosaddegh from office, as he had attempted some months earlier. But the Shah was terrified to attempt such a dangerously unpopular and risky move against Mosaddegh. It would take much persuasion and many U.S. funded meetings, which included bribing his sister Ashraf with a mink coat and money, to successfully change his mind.\n\nMosaddegh became aware of the plots against him and grew increasingly wary of conspirators acting within his government. According to Dr. Donald N. Wilber, who was involved in the plot to remove Mossadegh from power, in early August, Iranian CIA operatives pretending to be socialists and nationalists threatened Muslim leaders with \"savage punishment if they opposed Mossadegh,\" thereby giving the impression that Mossadegh was cracking down on dissent earlier than planned, and stirring anti-Mossadegh sentiments within the religious community. A referendum to dissolve parliament and give the prime minister power to make law was submitted to voters, and it passed with 99 percent approval, 2,043,300 votes to 1300 votes against. According to Mark J. Gasiorowski, \"There were separate polling stations for yes and no votes, producing sharp criticism of Mosaddeq\" and that the \"controversial referendum...gave the CIA's precoup propaganda campaign to show up Mosaddeq as an anti-democratic dictator an easy target\". On or around 16 August, Parliament was suspended indefinitely, and Mosaddeq's emergency powers were extended.\n\nIn August 1953, the Shah finally agreed to Mossadegh's overthrow, after Roosevelt said that the United States would proceed with or without him, and formally dismissed the prime minister in a written decree, an act that had been made part of the constitution during the Constitution Assembly of 1949, convened under martial law, at which time the power of the monarchy was increased in various ways by the Shah himself. As a precautionary measure, he flew to Baghdad and from there hid safely in Rome. He actually signed two decrees, one dismissing Mosaddegh and the other nominating the CIA's choice, General Fazlollah Zahedi, as Prime Minister. These decrees, called \"Farmāns\", were specifically written as dictated by Donald Wilber, the CIA architect of the plan, and were designed as a major part of Wilber's strategy to give legitimacy to the coup, as can be read in the declassified plan itself, which bears his name.\nSoon, massive popular protests, aided by Roosevelt's team, took place across the city and elsewhere with tribesmen at the ready to assist the coup. Anti- and pro-monarchy protesters, both paid by Roosevelt, violently clashed in the streets, looting and burning mosques and newspapers, leaving almost 300 dead. The pro-monarchy leadership, chosen, hidden and finally unleashed at the right moment by the CIA team, led by retired army General and former Minister of Interior in Mosaddegh's cabinet, Fazlollah Zahedi joined with underground figures such as the Rashidian brothers and local strongman Shaban Jafari, to gain the upper hand on 19 August 1953 (28 Mordad). The military joined on cue: pro-Shah tank regiments stormed the capital and bombarded the prime minister's official residence, on Roosevelt's cue, according to his book. Mosaddegh managed to flee from the mob that set in to ransack his house, and, the following day, surrendered to General Zahedi, who was meanwhile set up by the CIA with makeshift headquarters at the Officers' Club. Mosaddegh was arrested at the Officers' Club and transferred to a military jail shortly after. On 22 August, the Shah returned from Rome.\n\nZahedi's new government soon reached an agreement with foreign oil companies to form a consortium and \"restore the flow of Iranian oil to world markets in substantial quantities\", giving the United States and Great Britain the lion's share of the restored British holdings. In return, the US massively funded the Shah's resulting government, until the Shah's overthrow in 1979.\n\nAs soon as the coup succeeded, many of Mosaddegh's former associates and supporters were tried, imprisoned, and tortured. Some were sentenced to death and executed. The minister of foreign affairs and the closest associate of Mosaddegh, Hossein Fatemi, was executed by order of the Shah's military court. The order was carried out by firing squad on 29 October 1953.\n\nOn 21 December 1953, he was sentenced to three years' solitary confinement in a military prison, well short of the death sentence requested by prosecutors. Upon hearing of his sentence Mossadegh is reported to have said \"The verdict of this court has increased my historical glories. I am extremely grateful you convicted me. Truly tonight the Iranian nation understood the meaning of constitutionalism.\"\n\nHe was kept under house arrest at his Ahmadabad residence, until his death on 5 March 1967.\nHe was deprived of having a funeral and was buried in his living room despite his will of being buried in the public graveyard beside the victims of political violence of 30 Tir 1331. (21 July 1952)\n\nThe secret U.S. overthrow of Mosaddegh served as a rallying point in anti-US protests during the 1979 Iranian Revolution, and to this day he is one of the most popular figures in Iranian history.\n\nThe withdrawal of support for Mosaddegh by the powerful Shia clergy has been regarded as having been motivated by their fear of the chaos of a communist takeover. Some argue that while many elements of Mosaddegh's coalition abandoned him it was the loss of support from Ayatollah Abol-Ghasem Kashani and another clergy that was fatal to his cause, reflective of the dominance of the Ulema in Iranian society and a portent of the Islamic Revolution to come. The loss of the political clerics effectively cut Mosaddegh's connections with the lower middle classes and the Iranian masses which are crucial to any popular movement in Iran.\n\nThe US role in Mosaddegh's overthrow was not formally acknowledged for many years, although the Eisenhower administration vehemently opposed Mossadegh's policies. President Eisenhower wrote angrily about Mosaddegh in his memoirs, describing him as impractical and naive.\n\nEventually, the CIA's involvement with the coup was exposed. This caused controversy within the organization and the CIA congressional hearings of the 1970s. CIA supporters maintained that the coup was strategically necessary, and praised the efficiency of the agents responsible. Critics say the scheme was paranoid, colonial, illegal, and immoral—and truly caused the \"blowback\" suggested in the pre-coup analysis. The extent of this \"blowback,\" over time, was not completely clear to the CIA, as they had an inaccurate picture of the stability of the Shah's regime. The Iranian Revolution of 1979 caught the CIA and the US very much off guard (as CIA reporting a mere month earlier predicted no imminent insurrectionary turbulence whatsoever for the Shah's regime), and resulted in the overthrow of the Shah by a fundamentalist faction opposed to the US, headed by Ayatollah Khomeini. In retrospect, not only did the CIA and the US underestimate the extent of popular discontent for the Shah, but much of that discontent historically stemmed from the removal of Mosaddegh and the subsequent clientelism of the Shah. \n\nIn March 2000, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright stated her regret that Mosaddegh was ousted: \"The Eisenhower administration believed its actions were justified for strategic reasons. But the coup was clearly a setback for Iran's political development and it is easy to see now why many Iranians continue to resent this intervention by America.\" In the same year, \"The New York Times\" published a detailed report about the coup based on declassified CIA documents.\n\nMossadeq's overthrow had a direct relationship with the creation of an Islamic revolution and the collapse of the Pahlavi government. America's close relationship with the Shah and the subsequent hostility of the United States to the Islamic Republic and Britain's profitable interventions caused pessimism for Iranians, stirring nationalism and suspicion of foreign interference.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31292968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31292968", "title": "National Liberal Party (UK, 1931)", "text": "National Liberal Party (UK, 1931)\n\nThe National Liberal Party, known until 1948 as the Liberal National Party, was a liberal political party in the United Kingdom from 1931 to 1968. It broke away from the Liberal Party, and later co-operated and merged with the Conservative Party.\n\nThe Liberal Nationals evolved as a distinctive group within the Liberal Party when the main body of Liberals maintained in office the second Labour government of Ramsay MacDonald, who lacked a majority in Parliament. A growing number of Liberal MPs led by Sir John Simon declared their total opposition to this policy and began to co-operate more closely with the Conservative Party, even advocating a policy of replacing free trade with tariffs, anathema to many traditional Liberals. By June 1931 three Liberal MPs — Simon, Ernest Brown and Robert Hutchison (a former Lloyd George ministry-supporting coalitionist of the earlier National Liberal Party) — resigned their party's whip and sat as independents.\n\nWhen the Labour Government was replaced by a makeshift, emergency (though to prove long-lasting) National Government in August 1931, dissident Liberals were temporarily reconciled with the rest of their party within it; but in the next two months the party's acting leader, Herbert Samuel, came close to resigning from the government over the National Government's proposal to call a snap general election, fearing that it would lead to a majority for the Conservatives and the abolition of free trade. However, he was undermined by the willingness of those Liberals such as Simon – who \"in extremis\" would support protectionism – to continue to support the National Government and even to take the vacant offices to ensure it retained a broad party base. Samuel was welcomed back into the new National Government subject to an agreed concession to fight the general election on a separate Liberal Party manifesto, but staunch supporters of the National Government were prepared to repudiate free trade.\n\nWitnessing the rise of cheap foreign goods, the party split over how they would negotiate over ardent Conservative protectionism: supporters formed the Liberal National Party in the run-up to the 1931 general election in October. A third group under the official leader, David Lloyd George, also emerged, the Independent Liberals, who opposed the National Government completely, but this had few adherents amongst prominent Liberals beyond Lloyd George's relatives. For the next election in 1935 they reunited with the mainstream Liberals, colloquially dubbed \"Samuelites\".\n\nFollowing the election, Liberals following John Simon formally repudiated the official Liberal Party in Parliament and operated to all extents and purposes as a separate party group, known as \"Simonites\", though they were not immediately fully recognised as such. In 1932 the \"Samuelite\" Liberals resigned from the government over the result of the Ottawa Conference – the introduction of a series of tariff agreements – though they continued to support the National Government from the back benches. By 1933 they had abandoned it completely and crossed the floor of the House of Commons, leaving the Liberal Nationals supporting the government. The two groups were now completely separate, though some Liberal MPs like Robert Bernays remained on the Government benches before officially joining the Liberal Nationals, and other MPs maintained links across the floor.\nWithin the wider party the split was not so clear. Liberal Associations which supported Liberal National candidates remained affiliated to the National Liberal Federation, the mainstream body for the official party, until that body was dissolved in 1936; in particular one Liberal National cabinet minister, Walter Runciman elected in 1899, of a wealthy shipping family, remained its President even after the Commons split. Its replacement, the Liberal National Council, the main organ of the local (extra-parliamentary) party, was founded in 1936. However, there were increasing divisions when some Liberal associations endorsed Liberal Nationals, especially at by-elections: frequently Independent Liberals came forward to oppose such a candidate endorsed by the local association that called itself 'Liberal' but was actually Liberal National.\n\nThroughout the 1930s and 1940s there were a number of proposals to reunite the two Liberal parties, but these routinely foundered on the question of continued support for the National Government. During World War II the Liberal Nationals suffered a stream of defectors who joined either the independent Liberals or the Conservatives, or else became non-party supporters of the government. In 1940 the National Government was replaced by an all-party coalition led by Winston Churchill; the Liberal Nationals were marginalised, with Simon \"kicked upstairs\" to become Lord Chancellor. The party's new leader, Ernest Brown, was only occasionally accorded the status of a party leader within the coalition and otherwise faced questions over the future of the party. Proposals emerged again for the party to reunite with the independent Liberals, but these foundered on Brown's insistence on supporting a revival of the National Government once the Coalition broke up, which the independent Liberals rejected.\n\nAfter both parties' drubbing and the Labour Party's victory in the 1945 general election, the two factions made renewed attempts at reuniting. At Westminster the core, independent Liberals were in a shattered state, their tiny numbers representing all shades of opinion; and it was doubtful that the new leader, Clement Davies (himself a former Liberal National who had defected back to the independent Liberals) could carry all of his colleagues into a united party. Only in London (where neither Liberal party had any MPs) were the two reunited at regional organisational level, although in some individual boroughs and constituencies such as Huddersfield rival Liberal associations began co-operating and eventually merging as avowed Liberal associations. At the same time there were calls from devout Liberal Nationals, who had co-operated closely with the Conservatives and received numerous ministerial posts in the four National Governments, for that entire wing to fully unify with the Conservatives, with whom they had rarely expressed any overt divergence of opinion — few political commentators discerned a difference between the two.\n\nIn May 1947, the Woolton-Teviot agreement between Lord Woolton (for the Conservatives) and Lord Teviot (for the Liberal Nationals) resulted in the two parties merging at the constituency level. The Liberal Nationals also changed their name to National Liberals at this stage. Their reluctance to take this label originally is said to be a reaction to Lloyd George's use of the name for the earlier National Liberal Party in the 1920s.\n\nThe National Liberals therefore fought the next five British general elections as allies of the Conservative Party. To confuse matters, their candidates stood for election with a variety of names including National Liberal, Liberal National, National Liberal and Conservative, Liberal and Conservative and so on. Even established Conservatives with little or no former connection to the original party (including Randolph Churchill) after 1950 used the National Liberal name when going forward as candidates in some wards and constituencies.\n\nEven more than before 1947, the appearance of National Liberal candidates aggrieved the Liberal Party. They saw this as a blatant misappropriation by the Conservative Party of not only much of their funds but also their historic party name, while the Liberals themselves were in a parlous political position. In 1951 it was only thanks to fraught local arrangements that five of the six remaining Liberal MPs were elected in the absence of a Conservative candidate. Two of these elections were achieved by formal local pacts, whereby only one Liberal or Conservative candidate would stand in each constituency (in Bolton and Huddersfield). Increasingly, with electoral deposits expensive and electoral support low, the Liberal Party fielded few candidates, especially in 1951 and 1955 when the party barely mustered over 100 to stand for Parliament.\n\nWhile the Liberal Party struggled to survive, National Liberals won 17 seats in the 1950 general election. In subsequent elections their numbers increased to 19 (1951), 21 (1955) and 19 (1959) continuing their new status as the larger of the two Liberal groupings in Parliament.\n\nDuring this period two National Liberals held cabinet rank, plus one who sat as a \"Liberal\":\n\n\nBy the early 1960s it was obvious there was very little point to the continued separate political existence of the National Liberals. A joint Conservative and National Liberal candidate (Michael Shaw) gained a seat from the opposition Labour Party in a by-election in Brighouse and Spenborough in 1960. In 1962 Ian Gilmour who later achieved Conservative party cabinet status defended the National Liberal seat of Central Norfolk as that party's candidate in a by-election. Another noteworthy National Liberal candidate in this time period was the future Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine who had stood as a National Liberal for Gower in 1959, then went on to stand as a Conservative for more winnable seats in the 1960s.\n\nAfter 1962 the party lacked a senior government presence; and with the retirement or death of former leaders, only six with the National Liberal label were elected in the general election of 1964. A further four who had sat with this label preferred to be elected under a 'straight' Conservative label. The post of chairman of the parliamentary party was filled by the former junior minister David Renton, the MP for Huntingdon since 1945, with veteran National Liberal Herbert Butcher (who sat for the seat of Holland with Boston) remaining their chief whip. Butcher retired before the 1966 general election, in which the National Liberals were reduced to just three MPs (including the future Conservative Party cabinet minister John Nott). Two others (Joan Vickers and John Osborn) were elected as Conservatives. With so few MPs, they agreed to give up to the Liberal party a room at the Westminster Parliament that they had used for their meetings.\n\nIn its last years, the party was used by architect John Poulson as a way into politics while not being fully committed to the Conservatives. Poulson, who was Chairman of the National Liberal Council's Executive Committee from 1964, had little political skill, and his speeches were written by a Scottish Office civil servant, George Pottinger, who was on his payroll. However, the party had lost most of its senior members; and in 1968 the remaining National Liberals, still led by David Renton, assimilated completely into the Conservative Party.\n\n\nIn October 2013 Conservative MP Nicholas Boles suggested in a speech that the National Liberal Party be revived as an affiliate of the Conservative Party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1099491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1099491", "title": "National Minorities Party", "text": "National Minorities Party\n\nThe National Minorities Party is a political party in India, working amongst the Muslim minority community. The president of the party is Rajya Sabha member Akhtar Hasan Rizvi.\n"}
{"id": "21392376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21392376", "title": "Opal Storage Specification", "text": "Opal Storage Specification\n\nThe Opal Storage Specification is a set of specifications for features of data storage devices (such as disk drives) that enhance their security. For example, it defines a way of encrypting the stored data so that an unauthorized person who gains possession of the device cannot see the data. That is, it is a specification for self-encrypting drives (SED).\n\nThe specification is published by the Trusted Computing Group Storage Workgroup.\n\nThe Opal SSC (Security Subsystem Class) is an implementation profile for Storage Devices built to:\n\nThe Opal SSC encompasses these functions:\n\n\nMost of OPAL hardware securities weakness relies in firmware implementation. Radboud university researchers proved in november 2018, how it was easy to hack some SSD devices (Samsung EVO 840 & 850, Crucial MX100 MX200 & MX300) with US$100 of computer & electronics parts.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "217533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217533", "title": "Pro-Euro Conservative Party", "text": "Pro-Euro Conservative Party\n\nThe Pro-Euro Conservative Party was a British political party announced by John Stevens and Brendan Donnelly in February 1999, formed to contest the 1999 European Parliament Elections. The founders were Members of the European Parliament who had resigned from the UK Conservative Party in protest at its anti-euro stance. Their reported aim was to replace the Eurosceptic Conservative leadership of William Hague with that of Kenneth Clarke. Stevens later said that they had intended to push Ken Clarke, Michael Heseltine, Chris Patten and other pro-Europeans in the Conservative Party into \"an SDP-style breakaway, in combination with the Liberal Democrats\". The party disbanded in 2001.\n\nThe party said it was \"based on traditional Conservative values\", and they self-defined as \"One Nation Conservatives\". The main aim of the party was for the United Kingdom to join the euro, also known as \"the single currency\", for economic reasons. At the time the British pound was strong against the euro, which had dropped in value to be equal to the US dollar, and the then-Governor of the Bank of England Eddie George said that it would be \"an act of faith\" for Britain to join the Eurozone.\n\nThe party manifesto, published on 17 May 1999 and titled \"Time to decide\", argued for greater powers for the European Parliament over the European Commission and the European Central Bank, reform of the commission, reduction of countries' veto powers, reform of the Common Agricultural Policy, a European defence and security policy, stronger political and economic ties to the Balkans, and faster EU enlargement in eastern Europe.\n\nThe Pro-Euro Conservative Party distributed leaflets calling William Hague \"Bill Duce\", after Mussolini, when a group of Conservative MEPs led by Daniel Hannan were reported to be planning leave the European People's Party grouping and join with an Italian far-right party. John Stevens said Hague was \"taking the Tories into an extreme, nationalist party. This is dangerous for the country and catastrophic for the Conservative Party\". The PECP's party political broadcast showed an actor portraying Hague as \"a down-and-out in a baseball cap ranting about pride in being British and disliking 'frogs', the European single currency and anything else from the continent\", which was called \"a tacky and amateurish exercise\" by the Conservative Party.\n\nA MORI opinion poll of 1911 people published 16 February 1999 suggested that a new pro-EU conservative party could possibly win 11% of the vote.\n\nThe party received an endorsement in \"The Independent\" from writer A. N. Wilson, as well as support from Paul Howell, who was a speech writer for Margaret Thatcher and Edward Heath and a former Conservative MEP, and Sir Anthony Meyer, 3rd Baronet, a former MP and the \"stalking horse\" candidate against Margaret Thatcher in 1989. After William Hague ruled out Britain joining the euro under a Conservative government, former cabinet minister Ian Gilmour, Baron Gilmour of Craigmillar said he would vote for the PECP, and four former Conservative MPs - Sir Julian Critchley, Sir Nicholas Scott, Sir David Knox, Sir Robert Hicks - and four former MEPs - Margaret Daly, Adam Fergusson, Madron Seligman and Anthony Simpson - wrote in a letter to \"The Times\" that \"We would have wished that William Hague's party had put forward a manifesto more like that of the Pro Euro Conservative Party. Like many Conservatives, we shall find it very difficult to know how best to cast our vote on 10 June.\" The Conservative Party threatened to expel any members who supported the PECP, and did expel Critchley and Gilmour a fortnight after the election.\n\nAlthough the party's election literature featured Ken Clarke, asking voters \"Are you more a Clarke Conservative than a Hague Conservative?,\" Clarke did not approve of the party or its campaign and with Michael Heseltine met with the PECP at Heseltine's home in May 1999 to try to persuade them not to stand. Conservative MP Geoffrey Howe who became head of pro-euro group Britain in Europe during the election campaign did not endorse the PECP, but said the resignations from the Conservatives \"should send a clear and sombre signal to our party leadership\". Andrew Lansley, then a vice-chairman of the Conservatives called them \"a party of the disgruntled and disaffected\".\n\nDespite the party's name and their position as \"rebel Tories\", some of their candidates and officials were from the European Movement and originally from parties other than the Conservatives, such as Labour and the Liberal Democrats. The chief press officer Mark Littlewood was a Liberal Democrat who had also been a spokesman for the European Movement and later rejoined the Liberal Democrats.\n\nThe party stood 84 candidates in the European Parliament elections, receiving 138,097 votes, or 1.4% of the vote and no seats. In the same election the United Kingdom Independence Party, which campaigns for withdrawal from the European Union, received just under 7% of the vote and three seats in the European Parliament.\n\nJohn Stevens received 3.8% of the vote as the PECP candidate in the 1999 Kensington & Chelsea by-election against Michael Portillo. The party announced that it planned to change its name after the by-election due to voter hostility.\n\nIn November 2001, the PECP urged Conservatives to vote for the Liberal Democrat candidate in the Ipswich by-election.\n\nIn December 2001 the Pro-Euro Conservative Party disbanded, expressing disappointment at failing to persuade pro-European \"grandees\" to leave the Conservative Party and cooperate with the Liberal Democrats. Leader John Stevens called the Conservative Party under their then newly elected leader Iain Duncan Smith \"a cancer of extremism and xenophobia\". He was one of approximately 20 supporters who joined the Liberal Democrats and urged the remainder of the party's claimed 500 members to follow suit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1046450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1046450", "title": "Proconsul", "text": "Proconsul\n\nA proconsul was an official of ancient Rome who acted on behalf of a consul. A proconsul was typically a former consul. The term is also used in recent history for officials with delegated authority.\n\nIn the Roman Republic, military command, or \"imperium\", could be exercised constitutionally only by a consul. There were two consuls at a time, each elected to a one-year term. They could not normally serve two terms in a row. If a military campaign was in progress at the end of a consul's term, the consul in command might be appointed as proconsul by the Senate when his term expired. This custom allowed for continuity of command despite the high turnover of consuls. In the Roman Empire, proconsul was a title held by a civil governor and did not imply military command.\n\nIn modern times, various officials with notable delegated authority have been referred to as proconsuls. Studies of leadership typically divide leaders into policymakers and subordinate administrators. The proconsul occupies a position between these two categories. Max Weber classified leadership as traditional, rational-legal (bureaucratic), and charismatic. A proconsul could be both a rule-following bureaucrat and charismatic personality. The rise of bureaucracy and rapid communication has reduced the scope for proconsular freelancing.\n\nThe Latin word \"prōconsul\" is a shortened form of \"prō consule\", meaning \"(one acting) for the consul.\" It appears on inscriptions beginning in 135 BC. Ancient historians describe Quintus Publilius Philo, the first proconsul, as \"prō consule\" for 326 BC. For later proconsuls, the same sources use the shortened form.\n\nAlthough \"proconsul\" is an official title only with respect to magistrates of ancient Rome, the word has also been applied to various British, U.S., and French officials. In the modern context, it is rarely a compliment. The terms \"satrap\" (from Persian) and \"viceroy\" (from French) are both used in a similar way.\n\nDespite the gulf between ancient and modern proconsuls, writer Carnes Lord has proposed a single definition to allow the phenomenon to be analyzed in the context of leadership theory: \"delegated political-military leadership that rises in the best case to statesmanship\". South African historian John Benyon defines a proconsul as a leader with \"semi-independent and extraordinary capacity to shape the periphery\" of an empire.\n\nModern writing on leadership tends to stress the distinction between \"administration\" on the one hand and \"policy\" on the other. This emphasis can be traced to an essay by Woodrow Wilson written in the late 19th century. In earlier epochs, it was common for leaders to combine the two roles. Since this is no longer the case, specific terminology is required to describe such officials.\n\nIn his classic study, Max Weber distinguished among three modes of legitimate governance: traditional, rational-legal, and charismatic. In the form of bureaucracy, the rational-legal mode is dominant in the modern world. But a modern proconsul may also resort to aristocratic, or charismatic, leadership.\n\nIn the Roman Republic, a proconsul was typically a former consul and thus an experienced commander-in-chief. Having held the Republic's highest office, he was a statesman as well as an administrator. Rome's patrician class was prepared to exercise aristocratic leadership, both civil and military.\n\nSeveral factors are said to limit the scope of proconsular authority in modern times. Democracies put the military under civilian authority and tend to avoid policymaking by military leaders. Modern government emphasizes bureaucracy and rulemaking, while the Romans were aristocratic. Finally, modern communications allows for greater central control.\n\nAlthough transoceanic telegraph lines were laid by the mid-19th century, Lord describes the late 19th century as the heyday of British proconsular authority. Lord Curzon in India, Frederick Lugard in Nigeria, Cecil Rhodes in South Africa, and Cromer in Egypt all took imperial initiatives that London approved only reluctantly. As ruler of Japan and Korea after World War II, U.S. General Douglas MacArthur consciously modeled himself on a Roman aristocrat.\n\nThe role of U.S. General David Petraeus and others in Iraq suggests a continued need for proconsular leadership, according to Lord. Modern technology makes communication easier than ever. But as email and Power Point presentations proliferate, clarity and intellectual discipline is lost. Another factor is that civilian policymakers, whether on the spot or in the metropole, may lack the skills needed to manage military forces. Yet proconsuls are at best an \"ad hoc\" solution to a reoccurring problem. Managing a large territory in occupation or conflict requires a range of skills and the ability to deal with various organizations. No one is trained as a proconsul and the available administrators have experience in at most one relevant agency or service. During the Vietnam War, the U.S. attempted to deal with this issue by creating an integrated civilian-military command structure called Civil Operations and Revolutionary Development Support (CORDS).\n\nA proconsul was endowed with full consular authority outside the city of Rome. Cicero notes that this did not include the right to consult auguries: \"Our ancestors would not undertake any military enterprise without consulting the auspices; but now, for many years, our wars have been conducted by pro-consuls and propraetors, who do not have the right to take auspices.\"\n\nThe position was created to deal with a constitutional peculiarity of the Roman Republic. Only a consul could command an army, but the high turnover of consuls could disrupt continuity of command. If a consul's term ended in the midst of a campaign, he could be appointed proconsul and continue to command.\n\nPublilius was one of two consuls for the year 327 BC. When his term expired at the end of the year, his army was in the midst of besieging the city of Neapolis (modern Naples). Rather than risk a change of command at such a delicate moment, the Popular Assembly voted that he should \"conduct the campaign in place of a consul (\"prō consule\")\" after his term expired. Publilius thus became the first proconsul.\nWith imperial expansion beyond Italy and the annexation of territories as Roman provinces, the proconsul became one of the three types of Roman provincial governors. The others were the praetor and the propraetor.\n\nIn theory, proconsuls held delegated authority and acted on behalf of the consuls. In practice, a proconsulship was often treated as an extension of a consul's term. This extension applied only outside the city walls of Rome. It was an extension of the military command of the consul, but not of his public office.\n\nAs the number of Roman legions was increased, there was a need to increase the number of military commanders. The office of the praetor was introduced in 366 BC. The praetors were the chief justices of the city. They were also given \"imperium\" so that they could also command an army.\n\nDuring the Second Samnite War, Rome increased the number of her legions. The position of propraetor was instituted. These were praetors whose \"imperium\" was extended and were given the task to command a reserve army. Propraetors had the power to command one army, whereas proconsuls had the power to command two armies.\n\nIn 307 BC, Quintus Fabius Maximus Rullianus, who was consul the previous year, was elected as proconsul to conduct the campaign in Samnium. During the Third Samnite War (298–290 BC) the consuls of the previous year, Quintus Fabius Maximus Rullianus and Publius Decius Mus, were given a six-month extension of their authority to carry on the war in Samnium. In 291 BC Quintus Fabius Maximus Gurges had his command extended and to carry out mop up operations towards the end of the war. He defeated the Pentri, the largest Samnite tribe.\n\nThere were two republican proconsuls who did not previously hold the position of consul. During the Second Punic War (218–201 BC) Scipio Africanus volunteered to lead the second Roman expedition against the Carthaginians in Spain. He was too young to have been a consul. He was made proconsul by a vote of the Popular Assembly. When Scipio left Spain after his victory in 205 BC, Lucius Cornelius Lentulus and Lucius Manlius Acidinus were sent as commanders without public office (\"sine magistratus\"). This was done because Manlius Acidinus had not been a consul before.\n\nAs Rome acquired territory, the need for provincial governors grew. The province of Sicily was created in 241 BC, while Corsica and Sardinia was created in 238 BC. In 227 BC, two praetors were assigned the administration of these two provinces. Two more praetors were added when the provinces of Hispania Citerior and Hispania Ulterior were created in 197 BC. After this, no praetors were added even when the number of provinces increased. It became customary to extend the authority of consuls and the praetors at the end of their annual terms. The provinces were assigned by lot to proconsuls and propraetors. The proconsuls were assigned the provinces which contained the larger number of troops.\n\nUnder Lex Sempronia, enacted in 133 BC, the senate determined the allocation of the provinces before the next consular elections. In 81 BC, Sulla added two praetors so that the two proconsuls and six propraetors could be assigned to govern the ten provinces Rome ruled at that time. Sulla made the governorships annual and required the holder to leave the province within thirty days after the arrival of his successor.\n\nIn 67 BC, Pompey received extraordinary powers and an unprecedented multiyear proconsulship to deal with the problem of piracy. The \"first triumvirate\" of Julius Caesar, Pompey and Crassus also received multiyear proconsulships in 59 BC.\n\nUnder the Republic, consuls and proconsuls had raised and commanded armies loyal to themselves. Augustus, Rome's first emperor, replaced these essentially private armies with a standing imperial army. The consuls and proconsuls lost their military authority, but the titles retained considerable prestige.\n\nThe provinces were divided between imperial provinces, which were under the jurisdiction of the emperor, and senatorial provinces, which were under the jurisdiction of the senate. The imperial provinces were mostly the border provinces, where most of the legions were stationed. This allowed the emperor to retain control of the army. In the senatorial provinces, the governors were called proconsuls. Tenure was generally restricted to one year.\n\nAccording to Suetonius:\nAugustus decreed that the governors of the senatorial provinces would receive the title proconsul, regardless of whether they had served as praetor or consul. These were chosen by lot, with the result ratified by the Senate. In the imperial provinces, the emperors appointed governors who held the title of \"legatus Augusti pro praetore\", or pro-praetor, regardless of what position they had held previously.\n\nA passage in the New Testament notes that cases might be judged by a proconsul: \"If therefore Demetrius and the artisans with him have a complaint against anyone, the courts are open, and there are proconsuls; let them bring charges there against one another.\"\n\n\"Notitia Dignitatum\", an early fifth-century imperial chancery document, mentions three proconsuls but no propraetors. These outranked even the vicars in protocol, though administratively they were subordinates like all governors. They governed the provinces of: Asia, comprising the central part of the western Anatolian coast; Achaea, comprising the Peloponnese and most of Central Greece; and Africa, the northern part of modern Tunisia.\n\nBritish colonial officials sometimes referred to as proconsuls include Alfred Milner in South Africa, Lord Curzon in India, Lord Lugard in Nigeria, and Lord Kitchener in Egypt and Sudan. These leaders were able to take imperial initiatives even when the government in London was reluctant. Conservative and Unionist governments were notably more tolerant of such freelancing than Liberal governments were. These proconsuls ruled in the age of the transoceanic telegraph, so rapid communication did not end proconsular independence.\n\nVarious American commanders and ambassadors have been referred to as proconsuls. Writer Carnes Lord discusses William Howard Taft in the Philippines (1900–1903); Leonard Wood in Cuba; Lucius D. Clay in Germany; Douglas MacArthur in Korea; Edward Lansdale in Vietnam; Henry Cabot Lodge Jr., ambassador to Vietnam in 1963–1964; Creighton Abrams, who commanded in the Vietnam War from 1968 to 1972; Ellsworth Butler, ambassador in Vietnam in 1967–1973; William Colby and Ellsworth Bunker in Vietnam; Wesley Clark in Bosnia in 1994–99, Lewis Paul Bremer in Iraq in 2003; and David Petraeus in Iraq in 2004–08 and in Afghanistan in 2010–11.\n\n"}
{"id": "14774754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14774754", "title": "Reclaim Australia: Reduce Immigration", "text": "Reclaim Australia: Reduce Immigration\n\nReclaim Australia: Reduce Immigration (RARI) was a minor Australian political party that was active from 1996 to 1999. \nThe party advocated reducing Immigration to Australia and was associated with the far right of Australian politics. The party was deregistered due to a lack of members, and was largely displaced by the more successful One Nation and, to a lesser extent, Australians Against Further Immigration (AAFI). The party's best electoral result was in the by-election following the retirement of former Prime Minister Paul Keating from the federal seat of Blaxland. In this by-election, the Liberal Party did not field a candidate to oppose the sitting Labor Party, and, although RARI finished behind AAFI on the primary vote, on preferences RARI was able to come second in the seat.\n"}
{"id": "22064666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22064666", "title": "Redwood Act (1978)", "text": "Redwood Act (1978)\n\nThe Redwood Act (\"also\" Redwood amendment) is a 1978 amendment to the US National Park Service General Authorities Act of 1970. The amendment is particularly notable for clarifying and supplementing the 1970 act and the National Park Service Organic Act of 1916 with the following two important sentences as the second and third to the General Authorities Act:\n\nCongress declares that the national park system, which began with establishment of Yellowstone National Park in 1872, has since grown to include superlative natural, historic, and recreation areas in every major region of the United States, its territories and island possessions; that these areas, though distinct in character, are united through their inter-related purposes and resources into one national park system as cumulative expressions of a single national heritage; that, individually and collectively, these areas derive increased national dignity and recognition of their superlative environmental quality through their inclusion jointly with each other in one national park system preserved and managed for the benefit and inspiration of all the people of the United States; and that it is the purpose of this Act to include all such areas in the System and to clarify the authorities applicable to the system. Congress further reaffirms, declares, and directs that the promotion and regulation of the various areas of the National Park System, as defined in section 1c of this title, shall be consistent with and founded in the purpose established by section 1 of this title [the Organic Act provision quoted above], to the common benefit of all the people of the United States. The authorization of activities shall be construed and the protection, management, and administration of these areas shall be conducted in light of the high public value and integrity of the National Park System and shall not be exercised in derogation of the values and purposes for which these various areas have been established, except as may have been or shall be directly and specifically provided by Congress.\n\nBy this amendment the United States Congress reiterated the provisions of the Organic Act, and made equal all areas of the National Park System no matter the designation. This provides equal protection to all areas of the National Park System from impairment and/or derogation of their resources.\n\nNational Park Service\n"}
{"id": "783318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=783318", "title": "Right to work", "text": "Right to work\n\nThe right to work is the concept that people have a human right to work, or engage in productive employment, and may not be prevented from doing so. The right to work is enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international human rights law through its inclusion in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, where the right to work emphasizes economic, social and cultural development.\n\nArticle 23.1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states:\n\nThe International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights states in Part III, Article 6:\n\nThe African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights also recognises the right, emphasising conditions and pay, i.e. labor rights. Article 15, states:\n\nThe phrase \"the right to work\" was coined by the French socialist leader Louis Blanc in light of the social turmoil of the early 19th century and rising unemployment in the wake of the 1846 financial crisis which led up to the French Revolution of 1848. The right to property was a crucial demand in early quests for political freedom and equality, and against feudal control of property. Property can serve as the basis for the entitlements that ensure the realisation of the right to an adequate standard of living and it was only property owners which were initially granted civil and political rights, such as the right to vote. Because not everybody is a property owner, the right to work was enshrined to allow everybody to attain an adequate standard of living. Today discrimination on the basis of property ownership is recognised as a serious threat to the equal enjoyment of human rights by all and non-discrimination clauses in international human rights instruments frequently include property as a ground on the basis of which discrimination is prohibited (see the right to equality before the law).\n\nIn the United States, \"right to work\" laws as passed by states have sometimes been attempts to curtail union organizing. In other cases, they have been directed against regulation of qualifications for certain positions, including professional fields governed by professional organizations. Numerous U.S. states have passed laws requiring licensing, testing, or educational requirements, often in response to voter complaints about ill-prepared persons, such as people claiming medical expertise. The Friedmans reported in 1980 that\nToday you are not free to offer your services as a lawyer, a physician, a dentist, a plumber, a barber, a mortician or engage in a host of other occupations, without first getting a permit or license from a government official.\n\nMany laws were supported by existing professionals and their organizations in an effort to ensure a level of competence. Other observers believe their efforts were directed at simply restraining competition to increase prices for fees. In response, entrepreneurs and activists have won numerous court cases securing constitutional protection for the right to earn a living. Such cases have won the right to work for Louisiana monks who sell caskets, Philadelphia independent tour guides, Colorado taxi drivers, and Connecticut interior designers.\n\nPaul Lafargue, in \"The Right to be Lazy\" (1883), wrote: \"And to think that the sons of the heroes of the Terror have allowed themselves to be degraded by the religion of work, to the point of accepting, since 1848, as a revolutionary conquest, the law limiting factory labor to twelve hours. They proclaim as a revolutionary principle the Right to Work. Shame to the French proletariat! Only slaves would have been capable of such baseness.\"\n\nIn the 1980 book \"Free to Choose\", economists Milton and Rose Friedman said, \"[An] essential part of economic freedom is freedom to use the resources we possess in accordance with our own values – freedom to enter any occupation, engage in any business enterprise, buy from and sell to anyone else, so long as we do so on a strictly voluntary basis and do not resort to force in order to coerce others.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4594093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4594093", "title": "Ron Unz", "text": "Ron Unz\n\nRon Keeva Unz (born September 20, 1961) is a former businessman, best known for an unsuccessful race in the California gubernatorial election, 1994, and for sponsoring propositions promoting structured English immersion education. He was publisher of \"The American Conservative\" from March 2007 to August 2013. He now publishes \"The Unz Review: An Alternative Media Selection: A Collection of Interesting, Important, and Controversial Perspectives Largely Excluded from the American Mainstream Media\". \n\nOf Jewish descent and raised in a Yiddish speaking household, Unz attended North Hollywood High School and, in his senior year, won first place in the 1979 Westinghouse Science Talent Search. He attended Harvard University, earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in physics and ancient history. He then went to the University of Cambridge and eventually to Stanford University to begin doctoral work in theoretical physics, which he never completed. He was later awarded a master's degree by Stanford.\n\nUnz worked in the banking industry writing software for mortgage securities during his studies, and founded a company called Wall Street Analytics in Palo Alto, California. In 2006 his company was acquired by the ratings firm Moody's.\n\nUnz made an unsuccessful bid for the Republican nomination in the California gubernatorial election, 1994. He received 707,431 votes (34.3 percent) in the primary race against the incumbent Pete Wilson, who won the primary with 1,266,832 votes (61.4 percent). Newspapers referred to Unz's candidacy as a \"Revenge of the Nerds\" and often quoted his claim of a 214 IQ.\n\nIn 1994, he was opposed to California Proposition 187, a 1994 ballot initiative to establish a state-run citizenship screening system and prohibit undocumented immigrants from using non-emergency health care, public education, and other services in the State of California.\n\nIn 1998, Unz sponsored California Proposition 227, which aimed to change the state's bilingual education to an opt-in structured English language educational system and which was approved by the voters despite opposition from language education researchers. Proposition 227 did not seek to end bilingual education, as special exemptions were made for students to remain in an English immersion class if a parent so desires. However, there were limits (such as age restrictions) for the exemptions, and there were provisions to discipline teachers that refused to teach solely or predominantly in English. Proposition 227 was approved in June 1998; it was repealed by Proposition 58 in November 2016. In 2002, Unz backed a similar initiative, the Massachusetts English Language Education in Public Schools Initiative, which was approved by voters.\n\nThe book \"English for the Children: Mandated by the People, Skewed by Politicians and Special Interests\" by Johanna Haver (Rowman & Littlefield Education, 2013) recounts the controversies and political action resulting from Unz's California and subsequent ballot initiatives: Arizona Proposition 203, Colorado Amendment 31, and Massachusetts Question 2.\n\nIn 2012 and 2014, Unz worked on a ballot initiative to raise the Californian minimum wage from $10 to $12, but his campaign failed. His proposal was supported by James K. Galbraith.\n\nIn 2016, Unz started \"Free Harvard, Fair Harvard\" campaign, centered on the Harvard Board of Overseers. Its slate of candidates was Unz, Lee Cheng, Stuart Taylor, Jr., Stephen Hsu, and Ralph Nader. The campaign sought for tuition fees at Harvard to be abolished and for greater transparency in the admissions process.\n\nUnz also started a 2016 campaign for U.S. Senate in California, primarily to bring attention to the effort to repeal Proposition 227.\n\nIn November 2013, Unz launched the website, \"The Unz Review\", a blogging platform which \"bills itself as an 'alternative' to the 'mainstream media'\". Contributors include some left-wing writers, such as Patrick Cockburn, Norman Finkelstein and James Petras, but are mostly on the far right, including Pat Buchanan, Paul Gottfried, Steve Sailer and John Derbyshire. \n\nAccording to the Anti-Defamation League, the webzine is an \"outlet for certain writers to attack Israel and Jews\". More generally, according the ADL, while Unz \"does not appear to be an anti-Semite, he provides support to extreme anti-Israel ideologues\". It has also been described as \"an alternative conservative website\", \"far right\", \"alt-right\" and \"a mix of far-right and far-left anti-Semitic crackpottery.,\n\nUnz has donated tens of thousands of dollars to the far-right website VDARE, claiming that he supports them because they are \"mostly broke and they write interesting things.\" In 2017, he was a keynote speaker at VDARE's first national conference.\n\nIn 2017, \"The Unz Review\" received public attention when former CIA operative Valerie Plame Wilson was criticised after tweeting an antisemitic article titled \"America's Jews Are Driving America's Wars\" published in the webzine.\n\nIn July 2018, Unz used \"The Unz Review\" to promote the blood libel against Jews and endorsed the conspiracy tract The Protocols of the Elders of Zion. In August 2018, Unz denied the reality of the Holocaust, writing \"I think it far more likely than not that the standard Holocaust narrative is at least substantially false, and quite possibly, almost entirely so.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6795857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6795857", "title": "Shanghai massacre", "text": "Shanghai massacre\n\nThe Shanghai massacre of April 12, 1927, known commonly in China as the April 12 Incident, was the violent suppression of Communist Party of China (CPC) organizations in Shanghai by the military forces of Chiang Kai-shek and conservative factions in the Kuomintang (Nationalist Party, or KMT). Following the incident, conservative KMT elements carried out a full-scale purge of Communists in all areas under their control, and even more violent suppression occurred in Guangzhou and Changsha. The purge led to an open split between left and right wing factions in the KMT, with Chiang Kai-shek establishing himself as the leader of the right wing faction based in Nanjing, in opposition to the original left-wing KMT government based in Wuhan led by Wang Jingwei.\n\nBy 15 July 1927, the Wuhan regime had also expelled the Communists in its ranks, effectively ending the KMT's four-year alliance with the Comintern and the Chinese Communist Party. For the remainder of 1927, the CPC launched several uprisings in an attempt to regain their previous power, marking the beginning of the Chinese Civil War. With the failure of the Guangzhou Uprising however, the Communist Party was largely diminished in their influence, unable to launch another major urban offensive.\n\nIn KMT historiography, the event is occasionally referred to as \"April 12 Purge\" (四一二清黨), while the Communist historiography refers to the event in the form of \"April 12 Counter-revolutionary Coup\" (四一二反革命政變) or \"April 12 Tragedy\" (四一二慘案).\n\nThe roots of the April 12 Incident go back to the Kuomintang's alliance with the Soviet Union, formally initiated by KMT founder Sun Yat-sen after discussions with Soviet diplomat Adolph Joffe in January 1923. This alliance included both financial and military aid and a small but important group of Soviet political and military advisors, headed by Mikhail Borodin. The Soviet Union's conditions for alliance and aid included cooperation with the small Communist Party of China. Sun agreed to let the Communists join the KMT as individuals, but ruled out an alliance with them or their participation as an organized bloc; in addition, once in the KMT he demanded that the Communists support KMT's party ideology and observe party discipline. Following their admission, Communist activities within the KMT, often covert, soon attracted opposition to this policy among prominent KMT members. Internal conflicts between left- and right-wing leaders of the KMT with regards to the CPC problem continued right up to the launch of the Northern Expedition.\n\nPlans for a Northern Expedition originated with Sun Yat-sen. After his expulsion from the government in Peking, by 1920 he had made a military comeback, gaining control of some parts of Guangdong province. His goal was to extend his control over all of China, particularly Peking. After Sun's death from cancer in March 1925, KMT leaders continued to push the plan, and--after purging Guangzhou's Communists and Soviet advisors during the \"Canton Coup\" on 20 May 1926--finally launched the Expedition that June. Initial successes in the first months of the Expedition soon saw the KMT's National Revolutionary Army (NRA) in control of Guangdong and large areas in Hunan, Hubei, Jiangxi and Fujian.\n\nWith the growth of KMT authority and military strength, the struggle for control of the Party's direction and leadership intensified. In January 1927 the NRA commanded by Chiang Kai-shek captured Wuhan and went on to attack Nanchang, while KMT leader Wang Jingwei and his left-wing allies, along with the Chinese Communists and Soviet agent Borodin, transferred the seat of the Nationalist Government from Guangzhou to Wuhan. On March 1 the Nationalist government reorganized the Military Commission and placed Chiang under its jurisdiction, while secretly plotting to arrest him. Chiang found out about this plot, which most likely led to his determination to purge the CPC from KMT.\n\nIn response to the advances of the NRA, Communists in Shanghai began to plan uprisings against the warlord forces controlling the city. On March 21–22 KMT and CPC union workers led by Zhou Enlai and Chen Duxiu launched an armed uprising in Shanghai, defeating the warlord forces of the Zhili clique. The victorious union workers occupied and governed urban Shanghai except for the international settlements prior to the arrival of the NRA's Eastern Route Army led by Gen. Bai Chongxi and Gen. Li Zongren. After the Nanking Incident, in which foreign concessions in Nanjing were attacked and looted, both the right wing of the Kuomintang and western powers became alarmed by the growth of Communist influence, while the CP continued to organize daily mass student protests and labor strikes, demanding the return of Shanghai international settlements to Chinese control. With Bai's army firmly in control of Shanghai, on April 2 the Central Control Commission of KMT, led by former Chancellor of Peking University Cai Yuanpei, determined that the CPC actions were anti-revolutionary and undermined the national interest of China, and voted unanimously to purge the Communists from the KMT.\n\nOn April 5 Wang Jingwei arrived in Shanghai from overseas and met with the CPC leader Chen Duxiu. After their meeting they issued a joint declaration re-affirming the principle of cooperation between the KMT and the CPC, despite urgent pleas from Chiang and other KMT elders to eliminate Communist influence. When Wang left Shanghai for Wuhan the next day, Chiang asked Green Gang leader Du Yuesheng and other gang leaders in Shanghai to form a rival union to oppose the Shanghai labor union controlled by the Communists, and made final preparations for purging CPC members.\n\nOn April 9 Chiang declared martial law in Shanghai and the Central Control Commission issued the \"Party Protection and National Salvation\" proclamation, denouncing the Wuhan Nationalist Government's policy of cooperation with the CPC. On April 11 Chiang issued a secret order to all provinces under the control of his forces to purge Communists from the KMT.\n\nBefore dawn on April 12, gang members began to attack district offices controlled by the union workers, including Zhabei, Nanshi and Pudong. Under an emergency decree, Chiang ordered the 26th Army to disarm the workers' militias; that resulted in more than 300 people being killed and wounded. The union workers organized a mass meeting denouncing Chiang Kai-shek on April 13, and thousands of workers and students went to the headquarters of the 2nd Division of the 26th Army to protest. Soldiers opened fire, killing 100 and wounding many more. Chiang dissolved the provisional government of Shanghai, labor unions and all other organizations under Communist control, and reorganized a network of unions with allegiance to the Kuomintang and under the control of Du Yuesheng. Some sources say that over 1000 Communists were arrested, some 300 were executed and more than 5,000 went missing; others claim 5,000-10,000 killed. Western news reports later nicknamed Gen. Bai \"The Hewer of Communist Heads\". Some National Revolutionary Army commanders with Communist backgrounds who were graduates of Whampoa Military Academy kept their sympathies for the Communists hidden and were not arrested, and many switched their allegiance to the CPC after the start of the Chinese Civil War.\n\nFor the Kuomintang, 39 members of the Kuomintang Central Committee in Wuhan publicly denounced Chiang Kai-shek as a traitor to Sun Yat-sen, including Sun's widow Soong Ching-ling immediately after the purge. However, Chiang was defiant, forming a new Nationalist Government at Nanjing to rival the Communist-tolerant Nationalist Government in Wuhan controlled by Wang Jingwei on April 18. The purges garnered the Nanjing government the support of much of the NRA, the Chinese merchant class, and foreign businesses, bolstering its economic and military position.\n\nThe twin rival KMT governments, known as the Ninghan (Nanjing and Wuhan) Split (Chinese: 宁汉分裂), did not last long. In May 1927 Communists and peasant leaders in the Wuhan area were repeatedly attacked by Nationalist generals. On June 1, Stalin sent a telegram to the Communists in Wuhan, calling for mobilisation of an army of workers and peasants. This alarmed Wang Jingwei, who decided to break with the Communists and come to terms with Chiang Kai-shek. \n\nMore than 10,000 communists in Canton, Xiamen, Fuzhou, Ningbo, Nanjing, Hangzhou and Changsha were arrested and executed within 20 days. The Soviet Union officially terminated its cooperation with the KMT while Wang, fearing retribution as a Communist sympathizer, fled to Europe. The Wuhan Nationalist government soon disintegrated, leaving Chiang as the sole legitimate leader of the Kuomintang. In the year after April 1927, over 300,000 people were killed across China in anti-Communist suppression campaigns carried out by the KMT.\n\nOn the Communists' side, Chen Duxiu and his Soviet advisers, who had promoted cooperation with the KMT, were discredited and lost their leadership roles in the CPC. Chen was personally blamed, forced to resign and replaced by Qu Qiubai, who did not change Chen's policies in any fundamental way. The CPC planned for worker uprisings and revolutions in the urban areas.\n\nThe first battles of the ten-year Chinese Civil War began with armed Communist insurrections in Changsha, Shantou, Nanchang and Guangzhou. During the Nanchang Uprising in August Communist troops under Zhu De were defeated but escaped from Kuomintang forces by withdrawing to the mountains of western Jiangxi. In September Mao Zedong led a small peasant army in what has come to be called the Autumn Harvest Uprising in Hunan province. It was defeated by Kuomintang forces and the survivors retreated to Jiangxi as well, forming the first elements of what would become the People's Liberation Army. By the time the CPC Central Committee was forced to flee Shanghai in 1933, Mao had established peasant-based soviets in Jiangxi and Hunan provinces, transforming the Communist Party's base of support from the urban proletariat to the countryside, where the People's War would be fought.\n\nIn June 1928 the National Revolutionary Army captured the Beiyang Government's capital of Beijing, leading to the nominal unification of China and worldwide recognition of the Kuomintang led by Chiang Kai-shek as the legal government of the Republic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4083829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4083829", "title": "Spiked (magazine)", "text": "Spiked (magazine)\n\nSpiked (also written as sp!ked) is a British Internet magazine focusing on politics, culture and society.\n\n\"Spiked\" is edited by Brendan O'Neill, following Mick Hume's departure in January 2007, and features regular contributions from James Heartfield, Michael Fitzpatrick, Patrick West, Rob Lyons, Nathalie Rothschild, Tim Black, Duleep Allirajah, Tom Slater, Joanna Williams and Frank Furedi.\n\nThe magazine was founded in 2000 after the bankruptcy of its predecessor, \"Living Marxism\" (\"LM\").\n\n\"LM\" closed after losing a libel case brought against it by the broadcasting corporation ITN. The case centred around ITN coverage of Fikret Alić and other Bosnian Muslims standing behind a barbed-wire fence at the Trnopolje camp during the Yugoslav war. \"LM\" opposed Western intervention on traditional anti-imperialist grounds, and thus warned against the tendency to moralise the conflict – with Muslims portrayed as the victims and Serbs as the villains – which was fuelling the clamour for military action. \"LM\" published an article titled \"The Picture that Fooled the World\" which claimed that ITN's coverage was deceptive, the barbed-wire did not enclose the camp and the Muslims were in fact \"refugees, many of whom went there seeking safety and could leave again if they wished.\" During the court case, evidence given by the camp doctor led LM to abandon its defence. ITN was awarded damages and costs, estimated to be around £1 million.\n\n\"Spiked\" focuses on issues of freedom and state control, science and technology, culture, education and literature.\n\nThe magazine opposes all forms of censorship, by the state or otherwise. Its writers call for a repeal of libel, hate speech and incitement laws, and of censorship on university campuses (e.g. No Platform). They have criticised laws targeted at paedophiles as counterproductive to rehabilitation and conducive to mob violence. \"Spiked\" also regularly critiques risk society, political correctness, and environmentalism. As regards the latter, a particular \"Spiked\" target has been what they see as \"exaggerated\" and \"hysterical\" interpretations of the scientific consensus on global warming, and what they argue are double-standards advocated by more advanced Western nations for self-serving reasons.\n\n\"Spiked\" opposed the post-9/11 invasions of Afghanistan and of Iraq and Western interference in developing nations in general. It seeks to counter what it sees as a recent trend in Western foreign policy: humanitarian intervention.\n\nSome have said that \"Spiked\"'s stance has more in common with libertarianism than with the mainstream left.\n\nFrank Furedi, interviewed in \"Spiked\", responded that the stance of \"LM\" and \"Spiked\" springs from the tradition of the \"anti-Stalinist left\". He argued that the reason why many in the left tradition have difficulties in identifying these ideas with the left is that they completely misunderstand the humanist political position of being progressive in terms of human progress, science, rationality and freedom, and yet be completely anti-state:\n\n...much of the left in the twentieth century tended to be influenced by Stalinist and Social-Democratic traditions, which means they could not imagine that you could be left-wing and anti-state...so they were confused by us. But that was their fault, not ours. It was a product of their own abandonment of liberty in favour of ideas about state control.\n\nEnvironmentalists such as George Monbiot and Peter Melchett have suggested that the group of writers associated with \"LM\", several of whom went on to form the core editorial group at Spiked, continue to constitute a 'LM Network' pursuing an ideologically motivated 'anti-environmentalist' agenda under the guise of promoting Humanism. Writers who used to write for \"Living Marxism\" reject this as a 'McCarthyite' conspiracy theory. Monbiot described their views as having, \"less in common with the left than with the fanatical right.\"\n\nThe \"Spiked Review of Books\" is a monthly online literary criticism feature, based at \"Spiked\". The launch in May 2007 coincided with controversy in the United States following the scaling back of newspaper book review sections. The \"Spiked Review of Books\" features editorials by Brendan O'Neill and interviews, essays and reviews by a range of writers, many of whom are regular contributors to \"Spiked\", such as Frank Furedi, Jennie Bristow and Josie Appleton. The cover illustrations are by Jan Bowman.\n\n\"Spiked\" receives its funding via the organising of debates, surveys, seminars and conferences, with a variety of partners, sponsors and organisations. It also receives donations from readers.\n\n"}
{"id": "51125709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51125709", "title": "Students for Trump", "text": "Students for Trump\n\nStudents for Trump (S4T) is an American non-profit political organization whose stated mission is to \"see that Donald Trump is elected as the next President of the United States and that the Republican Party is placed back into power in Washington.\" The group was founded in 2015 by Ryan Fournier and John Lambert, students at Campbell University in North Carolina, United States.\n\nThe organization recruits Campus Ambassadors at college and high school campuses across the country, and encourages chapters to participate in on-campus advocacy, host events, and persuade students to vote for Donald Trump. Currently, the organization reports that it has over 5,000 volunteers, 280 chapters, and over 13,000 vote pledges.\n\nThe organization was founded in 2015 by Fournier and Lambert, students at Campbell University in North Carolina, United States.\n\nIn 2016, the organization switched from a traditional campaign model with Regional, State, and Chapter coordinators, to a model with Campus Ambassadors that perform roles similar to that of a campaign field intern.\n\nThe following people comprise the organization's national leadership team:\nIn addition to the national team, the group has Campus Ambassadors on 280 college campuses across the country as of July 20, 2016.\n\nIn March and April 2016, college students at universities across the United States used chalk to write slogans in support of Donald Trump's presidential campaign. The event was publicized on Twitter by Dan Scavino and the Students for Trump official account.\n\nThe event, and ensuing student reaction, led to DePaul University to ban the use of chalk on campus property.\n\nOn May 9, 2016, a group of students at the University of Washington constructed an 8'x10' \"Trump Wall\" out of plywood and lumber in the center of the Red Square courtyard. The event, led by UW College Republicans president Jessie Gamble, UW Students for Trump president Chevy Swanson, and S4T senior advisor James Allsup, lasted for an approximately an hour and a half, and was met with ten Trump supporters and over 100 protestors.\n\nThe wall was painted with a brick design, with \"Trump Wall\" written in gold paint, and \"Blues Lives Matter\" and \"Make America Great Again\" written in blue. At one point, a student attempted to scale the wall. Shortly after this, the organizers were asked by the University Police to take the wall down, which they did.\n\nPortland State University Students for Trump, a group unaffiliated with the S4T national organization, hosted a similar event on June 10, 2016. The wall was smaller at this event, and beforehand organizers announced on Facebook that \"Mexico and Black Lives Matter are going to need help paying for the wall so we'll be holding a collection.\"\n\nIn April 2016, a Students for Trump Florida chapter placed a \"Make America Great Again\" ball cap on a statue of Martin Luther King Jr. just days after the anniversary of his death. This caused a wide array of social media attacks towards the organization.\n"}
{"id": "5021955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5021955", "title": "Terror-Free Oil Initiative", "text": "Terror-Free Oil Initiative\n\nThe Terror-Free Oil Initiative was a group based in Coral Springs, Florida, dedicated to encouraging Americans to buy only gasoline that originated in countries that do not export or finance terrorism or are otherwise unfriendly towards the United States.\n\nIt promoted those companies that acquire their crude oil supply from the nations outside Middle East and criticized those companies that do not. \n\nTFOI attempted to create a healthy debate concerning alternate methods of fuel production and consumption.\n\nTerror-Free Oil opened the first \"terror free\" gas station in Omaha, Nebraska, in January 2007. In February 2010 the station closed.\n\nTFO spokesman Joe Kaufman is also the founder of a group called Americans Against Hate, a conservative civil rights organization and terrorism watchdog group. Kaufman is a prominent critic of the Islamic advocacy organization Council on American-Islamic Relations.\n\nTerror-Free Oil purchased its gas from Sinclair Oil Corporation, who buy oil from all areas of the world on the New York Mercantile Exchange. After critics questioned the buying methods of the group, founder Joe Kaufman, was forced to acknowledge that the stations were likely selling some oil from the Middle East.\n\nJournalist and writer on energy, Robert Bryce also criticised the group on the American Public Media show Marketplace and the CNBC show, \"Closing Bell with Maria Bartiromo\". Bryce stated that \"the trends of energy interdependence are growing and are inexorable\" and branded that idea of being able choose where your oil came from as \"hogwash\".\n"}
{"id": "1636145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1636145", "title": "The Camp of the Saints", "text": "The Camp of the Saints\n\nThe Camp of the Saints () is a 1973 French novel by author and explorer Jean Raspail. The novel depicts the destruction of Western civilization through Third World mass immigration to France and the West. Almost forty years after its initial publication, the novel returned to the bestseller list in 2011. On its publication, the book received praise from some French literary figures, including Anouilh, Bazin, Cau, Clavel, Deón, Dutourd, Fourastié, Maulnier, and Pauwels. In the U.S., it was praised by William F. Buckley and Max Lerner, and criticized by Linda Chavez and the Southern Poverty Law Center.\n\nRaspail has said his inspiration came while at the French Riviera in 1971, as he was looking out at the Mediterranean.\n\nThe name of the book comes from a passage in the Book of Revelation (Revelation 20:7–9) depicting the apocalypse. Satan influences most of the nations of the Earth to gather for one final battle against \"the camp of the saints,\" before being defeated for eternity:\n\nIn Calcutta, India, Catholic priests promote the adoption of Indian children by those back in Belgium as a form of charity. When the Belgian government realizes that the number of Indian children raised in Belgium has reached 40,000 in just five years, an emergency policy attempts to halt the migration. Desperate for the chance to send their children to what they call a \"land of plenty\", a mob of desperate Indians swarms the consulate. As a Belgian aid worker works through the crowd, an Indian gong farmer begs him to take them back to Europe, to which the worker agrees.\n\nThe worker and farmer bring the crowd to the docks, where there are hundreds of ships once owned by European powers, now suited only for river traffic. Nevertheless, the crowd boards, and a hundred ships soon leave for Europe; conditions on board are cramped, unsanitary and miserable, with some passengers publicly fornicating. As the ships pass \"the straits of Ceylon\", helicopters swarm overhead, capturing images of the refugees on board to be published in Europe. Meanwhile, on the Russian Far East, the Soviet troops see masses of Chinese ready to enter Siberia but are reluctant to fight them.\n\nAs the fleet crosses the Indian Ocean, the political situation in France becomes more charged. At a press conference about the crisis, a French official who offers a speech in praise of the refugees is confronted by a journalist who claims he is merely trying to \"feed the invaders\" and demands to know if France will \"have the courage to stand up to\" the migrants when they reach France. The official decries this question as morally offensive and threatens to throw the journalist out when he continues to yell. Other journalists seek to inflame tensions between the French and Africans and Arabs already living in the country. Over time, these journalists begin to write that the migrant fleet is on a mission to \"enrich, cleanse and redeem the Capitalist West\". At the same time as the fleet is praised by those in Paris, the people of Southern France, terrified of the migrants' arrival, flee to the north.\n\nAs the fleet approaches the Suez Canal, Egyptian forces fire a warning shot, causing the fleet to steer south, around the Cape of Good Hope. To the surprise of observers, the apartheid regime of South Africa floats out barges of food and supplies, which the migrants throw overboard. The international press is thrilled, believing the rejection of these supplies to be a political statement against the apartheid South African regime. Western leaders, confident the refugees will accept supplies from their \"more virtuous\" nations, organize a supply mission, funded by governments, charities, rock stars and major churches, to meet the refugees off São Tomé. However, the fleet does not stop for these barges either, and when a worker from the Papal barge attempts to board one of the ships, he is strangled and thrown overboard. The press attempts to contain coverage of the disaster.\n\nWhen the migrants pass through the Strait of Gibraltar, the French president orders troops to the south and addresses the nation of his plan to repel the migrants. However, in the middle of the address, he breaks down, demands the troops simply follow their consciences instead. Most of the troops immediately desert their posts and join the civilians as they flee north, and the south is quickly overrun by the migrants. Some of the last troops to stand their ground take refuge in a small village, along with Calguès, an old man who has chosen to remain at his home, and Hamadura, a Westernized Indian who is terrified of his \"filthy, brutish\" countrymen and prides himself on having more in common with whites than Indians. The troops in this village, total of nineteen Frenchmen and one Indian, surrounded by what they deem \"occupied territory\", remains the last defense of Western values and \"Free France\" against the immigrants.\n\nThe migrants make their way north, having no desire to assimilate to French culture, but continuing to demand a First World standard of living, even as they flout laws, do not produce, and murder French citizens, such as factory bosses and shopkeepers, as well as the ordinary people who do not welcome them. They are also joined by the immigrants who already reside in Europe, as well as various left-wing and anarchist groups. Across the West, more and more migrants arrive and have children, rapidly growing to outnumber whites. In a matter of months, the white West has been overrun and the pro-immigrant governments are established, while the white people are ordered to share their houses and flats with the immigrants. The village containing the troops is bombed flat by airplanes of the new French government, referred to only as the \"Paris Multiracial Commune\". Within a few years, most Western governments have surrendered. The mayor of New York City is made to share Gracie Mansion with three African-American families from Harlem, migrants gather at coastal ports in West Africa and South Asia and swarm into Europe, Australia, and New Zealand, London is taken over by an organization of non-white residents known as the \"Non-European Commonwealth Committee\" which force the British queen to have her son marry a Pakistani woman, millions of black Africans from around the continent gather at the Limpopo River and invade apartheid South Africa, and only one drunken Soviet soldier stands in the way of hundreds of thousands of Chinese peasants as they overrun Siberia.\n\nThe epilogue reveals that the story was written in the last holdout of the Western world, Switzerland, but international pressure from the new governments, isolating it as a rogue state for not opening its borders, and the internal pro-migrant elements, force it to capitulate as well. Mere hours from the border opening, the author dedicates the book to his grandchildren, in the hopes they will grow up in a world where they will not be ashamed of him for writing such a book.\n\nA translation by Norman Shapiro was published by Scribner in 1975 (). It was republished in mass market paperback format by Ace Books in 1977 (), and in softcover format by The Social Contract Press in 1995 (). The novel is also available in Amazon Kindle format.\n\nAccording to historian of literature , \"The Camp of the Saints\" received a positive reception, with most critics focusing on the \"prophetic\" nature of the story. According to Matthew Connelly and Paul Kennedy, \"[s]ixties radicalism still prevailed in Paris... [and] French intellectuals and bureaucrats swiftly dismissed [the book] as a racist tract\". It was praised by Bernard Pivot and conservative intellectuals such as Michel Déon, Jean Cau and Louis Pauwels. After it was translated to English, Max Lerner said that it had \"irresistible pace of skill and narrative\", while Sidney Hook said that it would \"succeed in shocking and challenging the complacent contemporary mind\". In 1975, \"Time\" magazine panned the novel as a \"bilious tirade\" that only required a response because it \"arrives trailing clouds of praise from French savants, including Dramatist Jean Anouilh ('A haunting book of irresistible force and calm logic'), with the imprint of a respected U.S. publisher and a teasing pre-publication ad campaign ('The end of the white world is near')\". \"Kirkus Reviews\" compared the novel to \"Mein Kampf\", while Jeffrey Hart in the \"National Review\" mocked the rejection of the novel by critics - deriding them as \"respectable, comfortable reviewers\" - and lauded the book, stating \"in freer and more intelligent circles in Europe, the book is a sensation and Raspail is a prize-winner [...] his plot is both simple and brilliant\". Syndicated columnist Garry Wills condemned the embrace of the novel by the \"more 'respectable' channels\" of American right-wing media, including Hart, drawing parallels between the \"racial implications\" of the book and the \"National Review\"'s \"overtly racist analysis\" of school integration efforts. In 1983, Linda Chavez called the novel \"a sickening book\", describing it as \"racist, xenophobic and paranoid\". The December 1994 cover story of \"The Atlantic Monthly\" focused on the themes of the novel, analyzing them in the context of international relations, while describing it as \"the most politically incorrect book in France in the second half of the twentieth century\". This was at about the same time that The Social Contract Press chose to bring it back into U.S. publication.\n\nIn 2001, the Southern Poverty Law Center described it as \"widely revered by American white supremacists and is a sort of anti-immigration analog to \"The Turner Diaries\",\" and in October 2015, condemned the novel as \"the favorite racist fantasy of the anti-immigrant movement in the US.\" Ryan Lenz of the SPLC notes that \"[t]he premise of \"Camp of the Saints\" plays directly into that idea of white genocide. It is the idea that through immigration, if it's left unchecked, the racial character and content of a culture can be undermined to the point of oblivion.\"\n\nIn 2002, Lionel Shriver described the novel as \"both prescient and appalling,\" certainly \"racist\" but \"written with tremendous verbal energy and passion.\" Shriver writes that the book \"gives bilious voice to an emotion whose expression is increasingly taboo in the West, but that can grow only more virulent when suppressed: the fierce resentment felt by majority populations when that status seems threatened.\"\n\nWilliam F. Buckley, Jr. praised the book in 2004 as \"a great novel\" that raised questions on how to respond to massive illegal immigration, and in 2014, Mackubin Thomas Owens noted Buckley's praise of it, while remarking that \"Raspail was ahead of his time in demonstrating that Western civilization had lost its sense of purpose and history—its 'exceptionalism'.\" In 2005, the conservative Chilton Williamson praised the book as \"one of the most uncompromising works of literary reaction in the 20th century.\"\n\nThe book returned to the bestseller list, ranking in the top 5 in bookstores in France as of March 2011. It has been referred to often by Steve Bannon, U.S. President Donald Trump's former chief strategist.\n\n"}
{"id": "13455777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13455777", "title": "The Servile State", "text": "The Servile State\n\nThe Servile State is a book written by Hilaire Belloc in 1912 about economics. Although it mentions distributism, for which he and his friend G. K. Chesterton are famous, it avoids explicit advocacy of that economic system.\n\nThis book lays out, in very broad outline, Belloc's version of European economic history, starting with ancient pagan states, in which slavery was critical to the economy, through the medieval Christendom process which transformed an economy based on serf labour in a state in which the property was well distributed, to 19th and 20th century capitalism. Belloc argues that the development of capitalism was not a natural consequence of the Industrial Revolution, but a consequence of the earlier dissolution of the monasteries in England, which then shaped the course of English industrialisation. English capitalism then spread across the world.\n\nBelloc then makes his case for the natural instability of pure capitalism and discusses how he believes that attempts to reform capitalism will lead almost inexorably to an economy in which state regulation has removed the freedom of capitalism and thereby replaced capitalism with the Servile State, which shares with ancient slavery the fact that positive law (as opposed to custom or economic necessity by themselves) dictates that certain people will work for others, who likewise must take care of them.\n\nIn the ninth section of the book, titled \"The Servile State Has Begun,\" Belloc explores various ways the servile state has started to creep its way back into modern life. Among these he includes minimum wage laws, employers liability laws, the Insurance Act, and compulsory arbitration. \n\nBelloc used his Catholicism and his experience of living alongside the small-scale peasant farmers of the Sussex Weald to advocate his thesis of having a property-owning democracy based on peasant smallholdings that would bring together the different social classes.\n\nGeorge Orwell described the work as written in a \"tiresome style\" and argued that the remedy it suggested was \"impossible\". However, he considered that it foretold the sorts of things that were happening in the 1930s with \"remarkable insight\". Kenneth Minogue's book \"The Servile Mind\" was inspired by Belloc's book. Minogue described Belloc's book as somewhat dated but still offering valuable insights into the development of servility and dependence on government largesse, which Minogue tended to regard unfavorably. Austrian School economist Friedrich von Hayek praised the truth of Belloc's predictions in his book \"The Road to Serfdom\" and subtitled his chapter, \"Economic Control and Totalitarianism\", with the quote from The Servile State, \"the control of the production of wealth is the control of human life itself.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "336251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336251", "title": "Treaty establishing the European Defence Community", "text": "Treaty establishing the European Defence Community\n\nThe Treaty establishing the European Defence Community is an unratified treaty signed on 27 May 1952 by the six 'inner' countries of European integration; West Germany, France, Italy, and the Benelux countries. The treaty would have created a European Defence Community (EDC) with a pan-European defence force. The treaty failed to obtain ratification in the French parliament, and consequently never entered into force. Instead, West Germany was admitted into the Western European Union (WEU), a dormant successor of the 1948 Western Union, as well as NATO.\n\nThe treaty was initiated by the \"Pleven plan\", proposed in 1950 by then French Prime Minister René Pleven in response to the American call for the rearmament of West Germany. The formation of a pan-European defence architecture, as an alternative to West Germany's proposed accession to NATO, was meant to harness the German military potential in case of conflict with the Soviet bloc. Just as the Schuman Plan was designed to end the risk Germany having the economic power on its own to make war again, the Pleven Plan and EDC were meant to prevent the military possibility of Germany's making war again.\n\nThe European Defence Community would have entailed a pan-European military, divided into national components, and had a common budget, common arms, centralized military procurement and institutions.\n\nIn this military, the French, Italian, Belgian, Dutch and Luxembourgish components would report to their national governments, whereas the West German component would report to the EDC. This was due to the fear of a return of German militarism, so it was desired that the German government would not have control over the German military. However, in the event of its rejection, it was agreed to let the West German government control its own military in any case (something which the treaty would not have provided).\n\nDuring the late 40s, the divisions created by the Cold War were becoming more and more evident. The United States looked with suspicion at the growing power of the USSR and European states felt vulnerable, fearing a possible Soviet occupation. In this climate of mistrust and suspicion, the United States considered the rearmament of West Germany as a possible solution to enhance the security of Europe and of the whole Western bloc. In September 1950, Dean Acheson proposed a new plan to the European states; the American plan, called \"package,\" sought to enhance NATO's defense structure, creating 12 West German divisions. However, after the destruction that Germany had caused during World War II, European countries, and in particular France, were not ready to see the reconstruction of the German military. Finding themselves in the midst of the two superpowers, they looked at this situation as a possibility to enhance the integration process, trying to obviate the loss of military influence caused by the new bipolar order.\n\nOn 24 October 1950, France's Prime Minister René Pleven proposed a new plan, which took his name although it was drafted mainly by Jean Monnet, that aimed to create a supranational European Army. With this project, France tried to satisfy America's demands, avoiding, at the same time, the creation of German divisions, and thus the rearmament of Germany. The EDC was to include West Germany, France, Italy, and the Benelux countries. The United States would be excluded. It was a competitor to NATO (in which the US played the dominant role), with France playing the dominant role. Just as the Schuman Plan was designed to end the risk of Germany having the economic power to make war again, the Pleven Plan and EDC were meant to prevent the same possibility. The United Kingdom refused to join.\n\nAccording to the Pleven Plan, the European Army was supposed to be composed of military units from the member states, and directed by a council of the member states’ ministers.\n\nFrance feared the loss of national sovereignty in security and defense, and thus a truly supranational European Army could not be tolerated by Paris. However, because of the strong American interest in a West German army, a draft agreement for a modified Pleven Plan, renamed the European Defense Community (EDC), was ready in May 1952, with French support. The new EDC treaty was signed on 27 May 1952.\n\nAlthough with some doubts and hesitation, the United States and the six members of the European Community approved the Pleven Plan. This led the way to the Paris Conference, launched in February 1951, where it was negotiated the structure of the supranational army. Among compromises and differences, on 27 May 1952 the six foreign ministers signed the Treaty of Paris establishing the European Defence Community (EDC).\n\nDespite the central role for France, the EDC plan collapsed when it failed to obtain ratification in the French Parliament. The reasons that led to the failed ratification of the Treaty were twofold, concerning major changes in the international scene, as well as domestic problems of the French Fourth Republic. There were Gaullist fears that the EDC threatened France's national sovereignty, constitutional concerns about the indivisibility of the French Republic, and fears about West Germany's remilitarization. French Communists opposed a plan tying France to the capitalist United States and setting it in opposition to the Communist bloc. Other legislators worried about the absence of the United Kingdom. The EDC went for ratification in the French National Assembly on 30 August 1954, and failed by a vote of 319 against 264. By this time, concerns about a future conflict faded with the death of Joseph Stalin and the end of the Korean War. Concomitant to these fears were a severe disjuncture between the original Pleven Plan of 1950 and the one defeated in 1954. Divergences included military integration at the division rather than battalion level and a change in the command structure putting the NATO Supreme Commander in charge of EDC operational capabilities. Italy also never ratified the treaty. Then French Prime Minister, Pierre Mendès-France, tried to placate the treaty's detractors by attempting to ratify additional protocols with the other signatory states. These included the sole integration of covering forces, or in other words, those deployed within West Germany, as well as the implementation of greater national autonomy in regard to budgetary and other administrative questions. Britain approved of the plan in principle, but agreed to join only if the supranational element was decreased.\n\nThe treaty never went into effect. Instead, after the failed ratification in the French National Assembly, Germany was admitted into NATO and the EC member states tried to create foreign policy cooperation in the De Gaulle-sponsored Fouchet Plan (1959–1962). European foreign policy was finally established during the third attempt with European Political Cooperation (EPC) (1970). This became the predecessor of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP).\n\nToday the European Union and NATO, and formerly also the Western European Union, all carry out some of the functions which was envisaged for the EDC, although none approach the degree of supranational military control that the EDC would have provided for.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25020717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25020717", "title": "Union of Young Fascists – Vanguard (girls)", "text": "Union of Young Fascists – Vanguard (girls)\n\nThe Union of Young Fascists – Vanguard (, \"Soyuz Yunykh Fashistok — Avangard\") was the young women's youth organization of the Russian Fascist Party. It was founded in 1934 in Harbin, and was open to Russian girls aged 10 to 16 years.\n\nThe main objective of the Union was \"the preparation of national-minded Russian young women and girls to responsible national service based on religion, nationalism, and work\".\n\nThe ideology and tactics of the Union were entirely determined by members of the Russian Fascist Party. Membership was obtained on recommendation of an existing member of the Vanguard or a member of the senior Russian Fascist Party.\n\nThe Union was divided into two groups, Junior (10 to 13 years) and Senior (13 to 16 years). Each group was divided into two categories: Second Level (Young Fascists) and First Level (Avangardistki).\n\nCommanding officers in the Union were the Senior Source, the Senior District Commander, and Senior Divisional Commander.\n\nThe lowest structural unit in the Union was the \"Focus\", a group of five people. Several of these that were geographically close to each other formed a District, and together with other suburban areas or units otherwise related, they formed a Department. The head of the group was appointed by the head of the Russian Fascist Party, the others were appointed by their respective commanders.\n\nThe uniform consisted of a white blouse with a black tie and a black skirt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9364476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9364476", "title": "United Left (East Germany)", "text": "United Left (East Germany)\n\nThe United Left () was an alliance of several leftist opposition groupings in the German Democratic Republic. Among them were Christian Socialists, Trotskyists, adherents of the Titoistic system of self-management and some Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED) members, who were critical of their party's policy.\n\nFounded on October 2, 1989, only a few weeks before the fall of the Berlin Wall, the United Left demanded a reformation of socialism with the stated goal of creating a free and democratic GDR. At the end of the year 1989 the party had 1500 members with focal points in Berlin and Halle. In contrast to other East German opposition groups, the United Left received less support from Western governments and political parties. Organisational issues and internal tensions between the various ideological factions meant that the United Left only achieved limited political success during its existence.\n\nAt the first free elections in the GDR in March 1990 the United Left started together with \"\" (\"The Carnations\"), a Marxist party. The electoral alliance with the name \"Aktionsbündnis Vereinigte Linke\" gained 0.18% of the votes and one seat in the Volkskammer. The United Left fell apart in the years after German reunification, but some members were elected to the Bundestag through a party-list of the PDS or The Greens.\n"}
