{"id": "50287146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50287146", "title": "2017 in public domain", "text": "2017 in public domain\n\nWhen a work's copyright expires, it enters the public domain. The following is a list of works that enter the public domain in 2017. Since laws vary globally, the copyright status of some works are not uniform.\n\nWith the exception of Belarus, a work enters the public domain in Europe 70 years after the creator's death, if it was published during the creator's lifetime. The list is sorted alphabetically and includes a notable work of the creator that entered the public domain on January 1, 2017. This term also applies to unpublished works in the United States (otherwise see below).\n\nIn most countries of Africa and Asia, as well as Canada, Belarus, Bolivia, New Zealand, Egypt and Uruguay, a work enters the public domain 50 years after the creator's death.\n\nIn 2004 copyright in Australia changed from a \"plus 50\" law to a \"plus 70\" law, in line with America and the European Union. But the change was not made retroactive (unlike the 1995 change in the European Union which brought some e.g. British authors back into copyright). Hence the work of an author who died before 1955 is normally in the public domain in Australia; but the copyright of authors was extended to 70 years after death for those who died in 1955 or later, and no more Australian authors will come out of copyright until 1 January 2026 (those who died in 1955).\n\nThe Copyright Term Extension Act means no published works will enter the public domain in this jurisdiction until 2019. The exception are unpublished works, which are subject to 70 years after the death of the creator, as above.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34273687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34273687", "title": "American Society for the Judicial Settlement of International Disputes", "text": "American Society for the Judicial Settlement of International Disputes\n\nThe American Society for the Judicial Settlement of International Disputes was organized in Baltimore 6 February 1910, at the residence of Theodore Marburg. The organization aimed for not only the creation of a permanent tribunal for the judicial settlement of international conflicts, but also wanted to create the sentiment that the international controversies should be resolved by a permanent international court. The Society was the forerunner of the League to Enforce Peace, which developed into the League of Nations concept and ultimately into the United Nations.\n\nThe Society planned to establish a permanent tribunal at the Hague.\n\nWilliam Howard Taft was its first president. Theodore Marburg was its president from 1913 to 1916.\n"}
{"id": "1676048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1676048", "title": "Baidu", "text": "Baidu\n\nBaidu, Inc. (, anglicized ), incorporated on 18 January 2000, is a Chinese multinational technology company specializing in Internet-related services and products and artificial intelligence, headquartered at the Baidu Campus in Beijing's Haidian District. It is one of the largest AI and internet companies in the world. The holding company of the group was incorporated in the Cayman Islands. Baidu was established in 2000 by Robin Li and Eric Xu. Baidu is currently ranked 4th overall in the Alexa Internet rankings. \n\nBaidu's Global Business Unit, formed under the name of DU Group or DU Apps Studio, is an app developer with various apps and services. It has over 2 billion active users worldwide. Baidu also provides an official international and Chinese version of its popular online digital distribution services Baidu App Store and Shouji Baidu respectively, both hosting downloadable content and applications. Baidu's advertisement platform is DU Ad Platform.\n\nBaidu's Apollo Project is one of the world's leading autonomous driving and AI programs, with one of the largest partner ecosystems and over 100 global partners as of 2018, including BYD, Dongfeng, Microsoft, Intel, Nvidia, Daimler AG, ZTE, Grab, Ford, Hyundai and Honda.\n\nBaidu has the 2nd largest search engine in the world, and held a 76.05% market share in China's search engine market. In December 2007, Baidu became the first Chinese company to be included in the NASDAQ-100 index. As of May 2018, Baidu's market cap rose to US$99 billion. In October 2018, Baidu becomes the first Chinese firm to join US-led A.I ethics group. \n\nIn 1994, Robin Li (Li Yanhong, 李彦宏) joined IDD Information Services, a New Jersey division of Dow Jones and Company, where he helped develop software for the online edition of the \"Wall Street Journal\". He also worked on developing better algorithms for search engines and remained at IDD Information Services from May 1994 to June 1997.\n\nIn 1996, while at IDD, Li developed the RankDex site-scoring algorithm for search engines results page ranking and received a US patent for the technology. He later used this technology for the Baidu search engine.\n\nIn 2000, the company Baidu launched in Beijing, China. The first office was located in a hotel room, which was near Peking University from where Robin graduated.\n\nIn 2003, Baidu launched a news search engine and picture search engine, adopting a special identification technology capable of identifying and grouping the articles.\n\nOn January 12, 2010, Baidu.com's DNS records in the United States were altered such that browsers to baidu.com were redirected to a website purporting to be the Iranian Cyber Army, thought to be behind the attack on Twitter during the 2009 Iranian election protests, making the proper site unusable for four hours. Internet users were met with a page saying \"This site has been attacked by Iranian Cyber Army\". Chinese hackers later responded by attacking Iranian websites and leaving messages.\nBaidu later launched legal action against Register.com for gross negligence after it was revealed that Register.com's technical support staff changed the email address for Baidu.com on the request of an unnamed individual, despite failing security verification procedures. Once the address had been changed, the individual was able to use the forgotten password feature to have Baidu's domain passwords sent directly to them, allowing them to accomplish the domain hijacking.\n\nOn August 6, 2012, the BBC reported that three employees of Baidu were arrested on suspicion that they accepted bribes. The bribes were allegedly paid for deleting posts from the forum service. Four people were fired in connection with these arrests.\n\nOn July 16, 2013, Baidu announced its intention to purchase 91 Wireless from NetDragon. 91 Wireless is best known for its app store, but it has been reported that the app store faces piracy and other legal issues. On August 14, 2013, Baidu announced that its wholly owned subsidiary Baidu (Hong Kong) Limited has signed a definitive merger agreement to acquire 91 Wireless Web-soft Limited from NetDragon Web-soft Inc. for 1.85 billion dollars in what was reported to be the biggest deal ever in China's IT sector.\n\nOn July 31, 2012, Baidu announced they would team up with Sina to provide mobile search results.\n\nOn November 18, 2012, Baidu announced that they would be partnering with Qualcomm to offer free cloud storage to Android users with Snapdragon processors.\n\nOn August 2, 2013, Baidu launched its Personal Assistant app, designed to help CEOs, managers and the white-collar workers manage their business relationships.\n\nOn May 16, 2014, Baidu appointed Dr. Andrew Ng as chief scientist. Dr. Ng will lead Baidu Research in Silicon Valley and Beijing.\n\nOn July 18, 2014, the company launched a Brazilian version of the search engine, \"Baidu Busca\".\n\nOn October 9, 2014, Baidu announced acquisition of Brazilian local e-commerce site Peixe Urbano.\n\nIn April 2017, Baidu announced the launch of its Apollo project (Apolong), a self-driving vehicle platform in a bid to help drive the development of autonomous cars including vehicle platform, hardware platform, software platform and cloud data services. Baidu plans to launch this project in July this year, before gradually introducing fully autonomous driving capabilities on highways and open city roads by 2020.\n\nIn June 2017, Baidu partnered with Continental and Bosch, auto industry suppliers, on automated driving and connected cars.\n\nIn September 2017, Baidu has rolled out a new portable talking translator that can listen and speak in several different languages. Smaller than a typical smartphone, the 140-gram translation device can also be used as a portable Wi-Fi router and is able to operate on networks in 80 countries, it is still under development currently. Baidu will also be inserting artificial intelligence (AI) technology into smartphones, through its deep learning platform. At the same period, it has also led a joint investment of US$12 billion with Alibaba Group, Tencent, JD.com and Didi Chuxing, acquiring 35% of China Unicom's stakes.\n\nIn October 2017, According to The Wall Street Journal, Baidu would be launching self-driving bus in China the following year. In the same month, Baidu also announced its first annual Baidu World technology conference (\"Bring AI to Life\") would be held and live-streamed on 16 November 2017 at China World Summit Wing and Kerry Hotel, bringing together Baidu executives, employees, partners, developers, and media to discuss the company’s mission and strategy, technology breakthroughs, new product developments, as well as its open artificial intelligence (AI) ecosystem.\n\nThe name \"Baidu\" (百度) literally means \"a hundred times\", or alternatively, \"countless times\". It is a quote from the last line of Xin Qiji (辛弃疾)'s classical poem \"Green Jade Table in The Lantern Festival\" (青玉案·元夕) saying: \"Having searched hundreds of times in the crowd, suddenly turning back, he is there in the dimmest candlelight.\" (众里寻他千百度，蓦然回首，那人却在灯火阑珊处。)\n\nBaidu offers several services to locate information, products and services using Chinese-language search terms, such as, search by Chinese phonetics, advanced search, snapshots, spell checker, stock quotes, news, knows, postbar, images, video and space information, and weather, train and flight schedules and other local information. The user-agent string of Baidu search engine is \"Baiduspider\".\n\n\nBaidu's primary advertising product is called Baidu Tuiguang and is similar to Google Adwords and Adsense. It is a pay per click advertising platform that allows advertisers to have their ads shown in Baidu search results pages and on other websites that are part of Baidu Union. However, Baidu's search results are also based on payments by advertisers. This has prompted criticism and skepticism among Chinese users, with People's daily commenting in 2018 on issues regarding reliability of Baidu results. Often as many as the first two pages of search results tend to be paid advertisers.\n\nBaidu sells its advertising products via a network of resellers. Baidu's web administrative tools are all in Chinese, which makes it tough for non-Chinese speakers to use. Recently, a third-party company began to develop a tool with an English-language interface for Baidu advertising programs. Paid advertising can only be used by advertisers with a registered business address either in China or in a list of other East Asian countries.\n\nBaidu focuses on generating revenues primarily from online marketing services. Baidu's pay for placement (P4P) platform enables its customers to reach users who search for information related to their products or services. Customers use automated online tools to create text-based descriptions of their web pages and bid on keywords that trigger the display of their webpage information and link. Baidu's P4P platform features an automated online sign-up process that customers use to activate their accounts at any time. The P4P platform is an online marketplace that introduces Internet search users to customers who bid for priority placement in the search results. Baidu also uses third-party distributors to sell some of its online marketing services to end customers and offers discounts to these distributors in consideration of their services.\n\nBaidu offers certain consultative services, such as keyword suggestions, account management and performance reporting. Baidu suggests synonyms and associated phrases to use as keywords or text in search listings. These suggestions can improve clickthrough rates of the customer's listing and increase the likelihood that a user will enter into a transaction with the customer. Baidu also provides online daily reports of the number of clickthroughs, clicked keywords and the total costs incurred, as well as statistical reports organized by geographic region. However, this too has invited criticism amongst Chinese internet users.\n\nBaidu offers ProTheme services to some of its Baidu Union members, which enable these members to display on their properties its customers' promotional links that are relevant to the subject and content of such members' properties. Baidu generates revenues from ProTheme services based on the number of clicks on its customers' links and share the revenues with its Baidu Union members in accordance with pre-agreed terms. Baidu's fixed-ranking services allow customers to display query-sensitive text links at a designated location on its search results pages. Its Targetizement services enable customers to reach their targeted Internet users by displaying their advertisements only when their targeted Internet users browse Baidu's certain Web pages.\n\nBaidu operates its advertising service, Baidu TV, in partnership with Ads it! Media Corporation, an online advertising agency and technology company. Baidu TV provides advertisers access to the websites of its Baidu Union members, allowing advertisers to choose Websites on which they post their video advertisements with the aid of its advertisement targeting and matching system. It also offers a brand advertising service, Brand-Link. In June 2008, Baidu launched My Marketing Center, a customized platform integrating industry information, market trends and business, and industry news and reports to assist existing customers in their sales and marketing efforts. Other forms of its online advertising services allow customers to display query sensitive and non-query sensitive advertisements on its websites, including graphical advertisements.\n\nBaidu Union consists of several third-party websites and software applications. Union members incorporate a Baidu search box or toolbar and match its sponsored links with the content on their properties. Their users can conduct search via the Baidu search box or toolbar and can click the sponsored links located on their properties. Baidu has also launched programs through which it displays the online advertising of its customers on Baidu Union websites, and share the fees generated by these advertisements with the owners of these Baidu Union websites. As of May 2011, there were 230,000 partner websites that displayed Baidu Union ads on their websites.\n\nBaidu competes with Google Search, 360 Search (www.so.com), Sogou Search (www.sogou.com), Yahoo! China, Microsoft's Bing and MSN Messenger, Sina, NetEase's Youdao, Tencent's Soso.com and PaiPai, Alibaba's Taobao, TOM Online, and EachNet.\n\nBaidu is the No. 1 search engine in China, controlling 76.05 percent of China's market share. The number of Internet users in China had reached 705 million by the end of 2015, according to a report by the internetlivestats.com.\n\nIn an August 2010 \"Wall Street Journal\" article, Baidu played down its benefit from Google's having moved its China search service to Hong Kong, but Baidu's share of revenue in China's search-advertising market grew six percentage points in the second quarter to 70%, according to Beijing-based research firm Analysys International.\n\nIt is also evident that Baidu is attempting to enter the Internet social network market. , it is discussing the possibility of working with Facebook, which would lead to a Chinese version of the international social network, managed by Baidu. This plan, if executed, would face off Baidu with competition from the three popular Chinese social networks Qzone, Renren and Kaixin001 as well as induce rivalry with instant-messaging giant, Tencent QQ.\n\nOn February 22, 2012, Hudong submitted a complaint to the State Administration for Industry and Commerce asking for a review of the behavior of Baidu, accusing it of being monopolistic.\n\nOn January 9, 2013, Baidu was still number one in the market, with 64.5% of the users, the closest competitor, Qihoo 360, who launched its own search engine in August, has already taken hold of 10.2% users. Following are Google and Sogou.\n\nBy August 2014, Baidu's search market share in China has dropped to 56.3%, where Qihoo 360, its closest competitor who has rebranded its search engine as so.com, has increased its market share to 29.0%, according to report from CNZZ.com.\n\nIn February 2015, Baidu was alleged to use anticompetitive tactics in Brazil against the Brazilian online security firm PSafe and Qihoo 360 (the largest investor of PSafe).\n\nBaidu has started to invest in deep learning research and is integrating new deep learning technology into some of its apps and products, including Phoenix Nest. Phoenix Nest is Baidu's ad-bidding platform.\n\nIn April 2012 Baidu applied for a patent for its \"DNA copyright recognition\" technology. This technology automatically scans files that are uploaded by Internet users, and recognizes and filters out content that may violate copyright law. This allows Baidu to offer an infringement-free platform.\n\nBaidu has applied for a utility patent in the UK, for its proprietary site-wise search technology which is currently available in China.\n\nAccording to the \"China Digital Times\", Baidu has a long history of being the most active and restrictive online censor in the search arena. Documents leaked in April 2009 from an employee in Baidu's internal monitoring and censorship department show a long list of blocked websites and censored topics on Baidu search.\n\nIn May 2011, activists sued Baidu in the United States for violating the U.S. Constitution by the censorship it conducts in accord with the demand of the Chinese government. A U.S. judge has ruled that the Chinese search engine Baidu has the right to block pro-democracy works from its query results, dismissing a lawsuit that sought to punish the company for Internet censorship.\n\nBaidu's reviews are mixed for in many fields and it is controversial. The examples are promoting and commercialization of Baidu Tieba.\n\nIn May 2016, Baidu's P4P search results reportedly caused the death of a student who tried an experimental cancer therapy he found online. The 21-year-old college student was named Wèi Zéxī (魏则西), who studied in Xidian University. Wei was diagnosed with synovial sarcoma, a rare form of cancer. He found the Second Hospital of the Beijing Armed Police Corps (武警北京市总队第二医院) through the search engine Baidu, on which the hospital had been promoting itself. The treatment proved to be unsuccessful.\n\nAfter Wei's family spent around 200,000 yuan (around 31,150 USD) for treatment in the hospital, Wei Zexi died on April 12, 2016. The incident triggered massive online discussions after Wei's death. The fact that Baidu valued money way more than life kindled nationwide rage. On May 2, 2016, Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC), the top watchdog for China's Internet space, dispatched a team of investigators to Baidu. The case is still ongoing. One report claimed medical advertising makes up for 30% of Baidu's ad revenue, much of which comes from for-profit hospitals that belong to the \"Putian Network\", a collection of hospitals across the country founded by medical entrepreneurs associated with the Putian region of Fujian province. The investigation led Chinese regulators to impose several restrictions on Baidu, including adding disclaimers to promotional content and establishing channels for complaints about Baidu services.\n\nBaidu sold the hemophilia online community, one of the communities of Tieba, to unqualified hospitals. In January 2016, Baidu announced that it will stop selling all of its illness-related Tieba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20392176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20392176", "title": "Blue pencil doctrine", "text": "Blue pencil doctrine\n\nThe blue pencil doctrine is a legal concept in common law countries, where a court finds that portions of a contract is void or unenforceable, but other portions of the contract are enforceable. The Blue Pencil Rule allows the legally-valid, enforceable provisions of the contract to stand despite the nullification of the legally-void, unenforceable provisions. However, the revised version must represent the original meaning; the rule may not be invoked, for example, to delete the word \"not\" and thereby change a negative to a positive.\n\nThe term stems from the act of editing written copy with a blue pencil.\n\nThe principle was established by the House of Lords in the case of \"Nordenfelt v Maxim, Nordenfelt Guns and Ammunition Co\" (1894).\n\nOther statutory provisions such as the Sale of Goods Act 1979 and the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 have established the Blue Pencil principle in statute law.\n\nIn Rose & Frank Co v JR Crompton & Bros Ltd, the Blue Pencil Rule was used to strike out an unacceptable clause in a memorandum of understanding agreement which appeared to try to exclude the jurisdiction of the courts. The unenforceable part having been excised, the remainder of the agreement was valid, and served to establish that the MOU agreement was not intended by the parties to be binding at law.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, courts routinely \"blue pencil\" or reform covenants that are not reasonable. The blue pencil doctrine gives courts the authority to either strike unreasonable clauses from a non-compete agreement, leaving the rest to be enforced, or actually modify the agreement to reflect the terms that the parties originally could have—and probably should have—agreed to. In Israel the blue pencil method has been used to strike out illegal or unconstitutional parts of a statute, leaving the rest intact.\n\n"}
{"id": "57783862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57783862", "title": "Canadian Beef Grading Agency", "text": "Canadian Beef Grading Agency\n\nThe Canadian Beef Grading Agency is an organization accredited by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency to monitor grading of meat products in Canada.\n"}
{"id": "7003740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7003740", "title": "Centre for Effective Dispute Resolution", "text": "Centre for Effective Dispute Resolution\n\nCentre for Effective Dispute Resolution (CEDR) is a London-based mediation and alternative dispute resolution body. It was founded as a non-profit organisation in 1990, with the support of The Confederation of British Industry (CBI) and a number of British businesses and law firms, to encourage the development and use of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) and mediation in commercial disputes. Professor Karl Mackie, a barrister and psychologist, became the organisation's Chief Executive and Eileen Carroll QC (hon), a Trans-Atlantic partner with a law firm (who had been involved in the initiative to form CEDR) joined to become the Deputy Chief Executive in 1996. On 12 June 2010 it was announced in the Queen's Birthday Honours that Karl Mackie was appointed a CBE (Commander of the Order of the British Empire) by the UK Government for ‘services to mediation', the first citing of this reason for the award.\n\nInitially CEDR's focus was, by necessity, UK-focused, where in the early 1990s mediation was not well established in business disputes. Through its campaigning and training work CEDR helped influence the civil justice system. In 1996 the then Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, Lord Harry Woolf (who now retired is Chair of CEDR's International Advisory Council), published his 'Access To Civil Justice Report' which encouraged the use of ADR, followed by the Civil Procedure Rules in 1999 which enabled judges to impose cost sanctions to either party when ADR was refused or ignored. These guidelines, along with case law (for example Dunnet v Railtrack, 2002) and subsequent clarification of the Civil Procedure Rules (CPR) saw the growth of the use of ADR and in particular mediation in the UK. Parallel to this was a growth in demand for CEDR's services in dispute resolution and training. From the mid-1990s onwards CEDR's focus became international, to begin with encouraging mediation in other European countries and working on international cases, to establishing the MEDAL international mediation service provider alliance (2005) and creating the first international mediation centre in China with China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT).\n\nCEDR works in four main ways.\n\nCEDR states that all money raised from its activities get put into the promotion of mediation and ADR, through events, schemes and running many services at cost. CEDR, a UK registered charity (no.1060369), asks global businesses to be members to support these activities. CEDR runs a number of elements under this umbrella, which include:\nThe Exchange Participant Network Programme – quarterly events and newsletter for mediators around the world (over 700 members).\nThe European Mediation Congress – a biennial conference event always held in London, last held in 2007. In 2009 this was instead a Conference on Settlement in International Arbitration.\nThe Excellence in ADR Awards – another biennial event - a 20th Anniversary Awards will be held in 2010.\nThe Mediator Audit – again biennial, previously to coincided with the Congress and gauges the quantity and quality of mediations in the UK over the previous two years. The last audit was published May 2010.\nThe International Mediation Institute - as a board member of IMI since 2014, CEDR participates in setting quality standards and promoting the adoption of quality mediation around the world.\n\nCEDR is the dispute resolution service arm of CEDR. Any business or law firm facing a dispute can call to speak to a case adviser who will provide advice and be able to recommend an accredited mediator to resolve their dispute. A number of the world's top mediators are only available via this service but CEDR Solve says it has over 130 accredited mediators on its panel of experts and with 50 mediators directly (including Lord Woolf). The service says it has advised on over 16,000 disputes to date and mediates approximately 600 major cases a year.\n\nOn November 9, 2011 it was announced that, the previous day, CEDR had acquired IDRS Ltd, the dispute resolution service of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators.\n\nIn 2007 CEDR started the Commission on International Arbitration, chaired by Lord Woolf and Professor Kaufmann-Kohler, to investigate settlement in international arbitration and to make recommendations on how arbitral institutions and tribunals can give parties greater assistance. The Commission is composed of 75 figures from the field and is also consulting 45 organisations from different jurisdictions. In 2009 the Commission published its Rules & Recommendations for Settlement in International Arbitration.\n\nTraining mediators for over seventeen years, its Mediator Training Skills is widely thought to be the best in the world. With a faculty of 30 experienced mediators, CEDR says over 5000 mediators from different countries have been trained to date. Once passed mediators can go on to become accredited. In the last ten years CEDR has also branched out and offers other courses such as a Certificate in Advanced Negotiation, Advocacy Skills for lawyers and Conflict Management for managers.\n\nIncreasingly CEDR says it is called into organizations and disputes at an early stage to design a resolution system or training scheme. In 2006 CEDR announced it had been appointed by the World Bank's International Finance Corporation to introduce mediation to Pakistan. In its 2005 report CEDR said it has also worked with IBM, the Court of Appeal and the National Association of Pension Funds.\n\nWhilst no organizations were mentioned in its 2006 annual report, in 2007 CEDR said it ran projects or consulted with the IFC and World Bank, the European Patent Office, the London Olympics 2012, the Federal Government of India, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Germanischer Lloyd Wind Energy, the Chartered Institute for Personnel and Development, the Chartered Institute of Public Relations, the Ministry of Justice (UK), the National Health Service (UK), the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (UK) and UNCITRAL. The report shows that in addition to its work in the UK, in 2007 CEDR also worked in South Africa, China, the Ukraine, India, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Turkey, Vietnam, the United States, Bosnia and Croatia.\n\nThe 2008 report names law firms it worked with as Allen & Overy, Ashurst, Clifford Chance, Eversheds, Herbert Smith, Lewis Silkin, Lovells, Mayer Brown, Nabarro and Norton Rose. The businesses and organizations given are Allianz, Association for Consultancy and Engineering (ACE), Barclays, Beazley, British Waterways, Court of Appeal, Deloitte, Department for Transport (UK), Home Office (UK), Hong Kong Bar Association, Howden, International Finance Corporation, International Underwriting Association, John Laing, Lloyd's Markets Association, Medical Protection Society, PricewaterhouseCoopers, QBE, Skanska, Teceris, Thames Water, UK Intellectual Property Office, University of Southampton and the World Bank.\n\nIn its 2009 annual report it says it worked with a number of banks - Barclays, Lloyds TSB, HBOS, National Westminster Bank/Royal Bank of Scotland, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs, UBS, Merrill Lynch and EBRD. Other organizations included are Beazley, Home Office (UK), John Laing, BBC, Sony, Panasonic, EDF Energy, Metropolitan Police, the Arts Council, Samsung, The Tribunals Service, ACAS, BDO Stoy Hayward, British Sugar, NHS Primary Healthcare Trusts, Roche, Bristol Myers Squibb, University of Cardiff, University of Birmingham, City University, Wolverhampton University, the Medical Protection Society, Lloyds Market Association, IFC and PricewaterhouseCoopers.\n\n"}
{"id": "48383510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48383510", "title": "Confidential birth", "text": "Confidential birth\n\nA confidential birth is a birth where the mother gives birth to a child without her identity being disclosed by the authorities. In many countries, confidential births have been legalized for centuries in order to prevent formerly frequent killings of newborn children, particularly outside of marriage.\n\nIn a confidential birth, the mother's right of informational self-determination suspends the children's right to know about their biological ancestry until she changes her mind or until the grown up child requests disclosure at a later point. The alternative concept of an anonymous birth, where the mother doesn't disclose her identity to the authorities at all or where her identity remains infinitely undisclosed, goes beyond this. \n\nAn early forerunner of confidential birth legislation can be found in Sweden where the Infanticide Act of 1778 granted mothers both the right and all means to give birth to their child anonymously. the act's 1856 amendment however restricted this legislation to confidential births, where the midwife was ordered to keep the mother's name in a sealed envelope.\n\nIn France, confidential births were legalized in 1793, when Article 326 of the Code Civil introduced both the concepts of \"anonymous\" and \"confidential births\".\n\nIn Western Society Christianity, the reaction to infanticide is of disgust because they feel that what the pregnant female did was against nature and reason and now the parent is denying like to the offspring. Infanticide can be seen as a cover up for sexual misconduct or in more dramatic terms denial of social order. Infanticide was specifically popular in the eighteenth-century through the nineteenth-century because of the difficulty with prosecution and the nature of the offense. In most places, a humanitarian view led to those prosecuting to consider that the newborns killed were done by helpless unmarried children and pushed them to convict them less. \n\nInfanticide decreased as resolutions came changing the perceptions of females to themselves and others. Society was realizing their oppressive behaviors led to the death of the children. Thus, encouraging society to reconsider the patterns and roles that they play on those involved in the accidents. \n\nInfanticide in definition is a person deliberately killing a child who had yet reached the of discretion, which is to be nine years old. This can be the mother, father, or even grandparents of the child. If the mother were married, then the case would not be tried as infanticide but as common law under murder. If the child was born stillborn, she was to prove it by one witness and a documentation of the newborn's death by an official. \n\nPrivacy in America is something that was slow to growth. The reason for the inclusion of this section is to give historical background on privacy and how it will come into play for the right of sealed birth records and confidential birth. From the beginning of the creation of the constitution and the Bill of Rights, there is a use of private, such as private property, but it never uses the word privacy and allowing people the right to privacy. Privacy is something that is implied through the language of the laws in place but not something that was emphasized or govern-mentally protected. It was not until the 1850's that privacy began to be something to be fought for as a right and this began when the telegraph was created and people enacting upon criminal activity of people transcribing messages illegally. The right to privacy eventually came from the court case of \"Griswold v. Connecticut\" where it argued for there to be a constitutional and legal basis for those seeking privacy in 1965. \"Griswold v. Connecticut\" is a case of the State of Connecticut v. Estelle T. Griswold and C. Lee Buxton. Estelle Griswold felt that medically prescribed methods of birth control should be offered and available to married women for the concerns of the health of mothers and economic and emotional stability. Dr. Buxton testified that he advised married women onto certain methods of birth control to preserve the lives and health of women with certain medical conditions. In addition, mentioning the use of contraceptives at that time as a commonplace medical practice in the country, so that birth control should not be seen differently. In conclusion from the representative of that of the State of Connecticut, it stressed that a physician must abide by the law anti contraception statute in the state of Connecticut and advice patients otherwise. Griswold and Buxton were found guilty under the General Statutes of the State of Connecticut because they assisted certain married women for the purpose of preventing conception rather than for medical reasons. When the case was brought all the way to the Supreme Court, lawyer of Griswold and Buxton, Emerson made an argument that - the right to privacy was being violated by the 1879 anti contraception law. He continued the argument that statutes are not followed and if the anti contraception law were to be followed then it would be threatening the privacy of married couples in the state of Connecticut. This argument then led to the protection of the privacy of activities in 1965. The votes were seven in favor of the reversing the Connecticut Supreme Court on birth control appeal and two supporting its affirmation. After fifty years of trying to modify and repeal the Connecticut anti contraception law, to extend the First Amendment protections to peripheral activities and this was also covered under the Bill of Rights. \n\nSealed records law was installed in 1917, allowing both parties to benefit from the confidentiality, mainly the state and whoever else was involved. Birth certificates are sealed for those adopted so that the adoptive parents feel autonomy from the biological parents and receive the privacy that birth parents have. The sealed records law lets anyone adopted to create own fate without influence from biological parents and their origins.\n\nSome women choose not to give their personal information when giving birth to a child for the fact of privacy and keeping their personal information private/ confidential. They feel that the information asked is too personal and is not useful for medical records. Questions asked include: What is the highest level education reached by both parents? What is the standing employment for parents? How many times has the mother terminated pregnancies? Did the mother smoke during pregnancy, before, or after? How many cigarettes per day? What was the alcohol use per day before and during pregnancy? But to be able to receive the birth certificate, they must fill out the sheet. The questionnaire is not of an anonymous format. The questions are used for the National Center for Health Statistics and is entered in a confidential data set but the data is saved with the mother's name attached. \n\nThrough research, it is often times those of adolescent who decide to have confidential births and confidential adoptions. For some they have unresolved issues being of pubescence with their own family and life. Without the psychological maturity of adulthood, it can be difficult for an adolescent to take on the task of parenting an infant. For adolescents they have just reached the level to link possible consequences to certain actions and not firmly established. Those who experience pregnancy have various of reactions when pregnant of either denial and self-blame or the need for the pregnancy to solve depression or to affirm femininity which can be the reason for little effort of prevention of pregnancy. The relinquish of responsibility leads to adoption and the decision to give the child a better life and the woman the freedom. Because of the lack of information when giving the child up for adoption and the intensity of the time, the mother is asked of whether they want to relinquish their parental rights and asked at the same time if she wants to keep contact with the child. The reaction of the mother could be positive as to want connection with the child or they can have unhappiness about the pregnancy and wants riddance of the child and the consequence of it. \n\nStatistics of birth records are used to register humans but there are problems in acquiring records from children who are: born out of wedlock, children of unknown parentage, they are legitimated children, adopted children. The American Association of Registration Executives and the Council on Vital Records and Statistics created a statement for the need of a nation-wide policy on the confidential nature of birth records which will (1) assure the confidentiality of all birth records; (2) regulation of completeness and accuracy of all information given within birth reports, adoptions, and legitimations; (3) allowing the individual to secure the information regarding their birth or family relationship; (4) protect individuals from the release of information that is undesired; (5) the required information from an administration to keep records secure within programs. This policy of secured birth records require the complete and accurate registration of births essential as individuals need certification of their birth for evidence. As well as, health and social agencies need this information for statistical and administrative purposes, but if the information is left for the general public than information that could be harmful to the child or parents would be insecure. \n\nChange from Traditional Confidential Adoption to Open Adoption:\n\nConfidential adoption- where the non-identifying or those who keep the records confidential still exchange the medical data regarding the parents between the adoptive and the biological parents through an agency.\n\nOpen Adoption- identifying data is exchanged through the contact between the adoptive parents and biological parents and is encouraged. Contact continues throughout the life of the child with things such as, letters, gifts, photographs, or even visits between both sets of parents and the child. Some families put limits on the meeting of biological parents and child with either limited openness or just open. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2080471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080471", "title": "Constitution of Connecticut", "text": "Constitution of Connecticut\n\nThe Constitution of the State of Connecticut is the basic governing document of the U.S. state of Connecticut. It was approved by referendum on December 14, 1965, and proclaimed by the governor as adopted on December 30. It comprises 14 articles and has been amended 31 times.\n\nThis constitution replaced the earlier constitution of 1818. It is the state's second constitution since the establishment of the United States. An earlier constitution dating from colonial times, the Fundamental Orders of Connecticut, remained the basis of government even as Connecticut gained its independence from Great Britain, existed as an independent polity, and joined the United States.\n\nThe constitution consists of fourteen articles:\n\n\nThe Connecticut constitution can be amended via a process that originates in the General Assembly. If a joint resolution proposing a constitutional amendment passes each house of the General Assembly with three-quarters of the votes cast, the amendment is submitted to the voters in the next even-numbered year's general election. If such a joint resolution fails to win a two-thirds vote in either house but obtains a majority, it must receive a majority in each house during the next legislative session before being submitted to the voters in the next even-numbered year's general election. An amendment that wins a majority of the votes cast in the referendum is adopted.\n\nA constitutional convention can amend the constitution. Such a convention is called either:\n\nThe General Assembly shall decide, by a two-thirds vote of each house, the method for selecting convention delegates and the date of the convention's convening and adjournment. The most recent referendum on calling a constitutional convention was held on November 4, 2008. Voters opposed calling a constitutional convention by a vote of 847,518 to 579,904.\n\nThe state constitution has been amended 31 times.\n\n\nThe \"Fundamental Orders of Connecticut\" (1638) is considered by many to be the state's first constitution, although it was adopted while the state was still an English colony. The document recognized no allegiance to England but instead an independent government. \"The Charter of the Colony of Connecticut\" (1662) officially superseded the Fundamental Orders, but the local government continued operating under the previous rules. Even after the American Revolutionary War, the state retained its constitution for another 40 years.\n\nThe colonial charter was abolished with the adoption of the first state constitution in 1818. In contrast to the Fundamental Orders, that constitution provided for freedom of religion.\n\nOn October 1, 1901, Connecticut residents voted nearly 2-to-1 in favor of calling of a constitutional convention to revise the constitution. A convention was held, and a revised constitution was proposed. On June 16, 1902, voters rejected the revised constitution by a margin of more than 2-to-1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13989683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13989683", "title": "Declaration of Table Mountain", "text": "Declaration of Table Mountain\n\nThe Declaration of Table Mountain is a statement on press freedom in Africa. The statement was issued by the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers (WAN-IFRA) and World Editors Forum (WEF) at the 60th meeting of the World Newspaper Conference and 14th World Editors Forum Conference in Cape Town, South Africa, 3–6 June 2007. It is named after Table Mountain, at the southern tip of the African continent.\n\nIn country after country, the African press is crippled by a panoply of repressive measures, from the jailing and persecution of journalists to the widespread scourge of 'insult laws' and criminal defamation. As the start of an intensive campaign to improve this appalling situation, the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers (WAN-IFRA) adopted the Declaration of Table Mountain on 3 June 2007 in Cape Town, South Africa, during its annual meeting.\n\nThrough this Declaration, WAN-IFRA has stated its conviction that Africa urgently needs a strong, free and independent press to act as a watchdog over public institutions, a crucial role that the press is hindered from and punished for playing by the widespread resort to 'insult laws' and criminal defamation, in particular.\n\nMajor African and international non-governmental organisations that, day after day, defend and promote freedom of expression and freedom of the press have now endorsed the Declaration and expressed their readiness to contribute to this campaign. Together, with determination, we will now aggressively press our case in the hope for a better future for African media freedom.\n\n"}
{"id": "53003788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53003788", "title": "Edmond Jordan", "text": "Edmond Jordan\n\nEdmond Dwayne Jordan (born June 1971) is an American attorney and politician. He is a Democratic member of the Louisiana House of Representatives for District 29. On May 14, 2016, he won a special election runoff to succeed fellow Democrat Ronnie Edwards.\n\nLife-long Brusly resident Jordan graduated from Brusly High School and the historically black Southern University and the Southern University Law Center, both in the capital city of Baton Rouge. An attorney since 1998, Jordan has represented the Louisiana Public Service Commission, the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, and the United States Department of Homeland Security. He co-owns Cypress Insurance Agency in Baton Rouge. He is a graduate of the leadership programs offered by both the West Baton Rouge/Iberville Chamber of Commerce and the Council For A Better Louisiana. He is a member of the West Baton Rouge Chamber of Commerce. \n\nHe and his wife, Stacie, have two children, Jailen and Jace Jordan. \n\nOn November 21, 2015, Jordan lost the House race to Ronnie Edwards the regular general election. He polled 4,768 votes (40.9 percent) to Edwards' 6,887 (59.1 percent). Edwards defeated Jordan to succeed Representative Regina Barrow, who in turn followed Sharon Weston Broome in the Louisiana State Senate. Barrow and Broome are also African-American Democrats. Edwards like Barrow formerly worked for Broome. Gary Chambers of \"The Rouge Collection\" wrote that Jordan answered questions in a public forum while Edwards did not make an appearance. \"Honestly, in the white community, this would never have happened. We as blacks blindly vote for people, based on name recognition, and we must change this pattern,\" Chambers said.\n\nFive Democrats were candidates in the special election held on April 9 to choose Edwards' successor. In the second round of balloting between the top two vote-getters, Jordan defeated in a low-turnout contest another Democrat, Vereta Tanner Lee (born March 1958), a third-term member of the East Baton Rouge Parish School Board, 2,019 votes (59.6 percent) and 1,368 (40.4 percent). Eliminated in the primary were Tyra Banks Sterling, who had been Edwards' former legislative assistant, attorney Victor Woods, Jr., and Albert White, occupation not available. No Republican filed in the heavily Democratic district.\n\nIn the 2015 campaign, Jordan focused on what he called setting the \"state budget in line with the priorities that enhance opportunity, not diminish it. Strong economic development and the retention of high quality graduates is an absolute necessity. More specifically, I will fight to balance the disproportionate economic disparity between north and south Baton Rouge. Instead of trying to form a new city, we need to bring businesses to District 29 and help rejuvenate this district.\"\n\nGovernor John Bel Edwards called to congratulate his fellow Democrat on learning of Jordan's election to the state House.\n\nJordan has acted as an attorney and spokesman for the family of Alton Sterling, a black man who was shot several times at close range while held down on the ground by two white police officers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.\n"}
{"id": "24200245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24200245", "title": "Elections and Registration Act 1915", "text": "Elections and Registration Act 1915\n\nThe Elections and Registration Act 1915 (5&6 Geo.5 c.76) was a war time act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that postponed local elections and the preparation of registers of electors. Initially the postponement was for one year, but the Act was renewed annually until the electoral cycle was resumed in 1919 following the cessation of hostilities.\n\nElections to local authorities in the United Kingdom were held annually in either April or November. In August 1914 war broke out, although this did not initially effect the municipal elections which were duly held in November 1914 and April 1915.\n\nA coalition government was formed in May 1915, and in June it was announced that the cabinet intended to introduce legislation to both extend the life of Parliament by a year to 1917, and also to postpone the November 1915 borough elections. The postponement of elections would also mean that local authorities would not need to compile new electoral registers.\n\nThe Elections and Registration Bill was duly introduced to the Commons only 22 July. The bill passed all stages in both houses rapidly, and received the royal assent on 29 July.\n\nThe Act was a short document containing only four sections.\n\n\"next statutory elections of county and borough councillors, district councillors, guardians, and parish councillors, shall be postponed for a year, and the term of office of the existing councillors and guardians shall accordingly be extended by one year.'\" Elections were no longer to be required to fill casual vacancies occurring in the membership of local councils and boards. Instead a vacant seat was to \"be filled by means of the choice by the council or board of a person\"... and \"a councillor or guardian so chosen shall hold office in the same manner in all respects as if he had been elected to fill the vacancy\".\n\nWith the continuation of the war until November 1918, the provisions of the 1915 legislation had to be renewed on three occasions by the Parliament and Local Elections Acts of 1916, 1917 and the Parliament and Local Elections (No. 2) Act, 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "16728015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16728015", "title": "Financial Stability Forum", "text": "Financial Stability Forum\n\nThe Financial Stability Forum (FSF) was a group consisting of major national financial authorities such as finance ministries, central bankers, and international financial bodies. It was first convened in April 1999 in Washington. At the 2009 G20 London summit, the G20 nations established an FSF successor called the Financial Stability Board with an expanded membership and broadened mandate.\n\nThe Forum was founded in 1999 to promote international financial stability. Its founding resulted from discussions among Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the G7 countries, and a study which they commissioned. The Forum facilitated discussion and cooperation on supervision and surveillance of financial institutions, transactions and events. FSF was managed by a small secretariat housed at the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland. The FSF membership included about a dozen nations who participate through their central banks, financial ministries and departments, and securities regulators, including: the United States, Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Canada, Australia, the Netherlands and several other industrialized economies as well as several international economic organizations.\n\nAt the G20 summit on November 15, 2008, it was agreed that the membership of the FSF will be expanded to include emerging economies, such as China. The 2009 G-20 London summit decided to establish a successor to the FSF, the Financial Stability Board. The FSB includes members of the G20 who were not members of FSF.\n\nThe Financial Stability Forum met in Rome on 28–29 March 2008 in connection with the Bank for International Settlements. Members discussed current challenges in financial markets, and various policy options to address them from this point forward.\n\nAt this meeting, the FSF discussed a report to be delivered to G7 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors in April 2008. it identifies key weaknesses underlying current financial turmoil, and recommends actions to improve market and institutional resilience. The FSF discussed work underway at the IMF and OECD with regard to sovereign wealth funds (SWFs). The IMF is working closely with SWFs to identify a set of voluntary best practice guidelines, and is focusing on the governance, institutional arrangements and transparency of SWFs.\n\nOn April 12, 2008, the FSF delivered a report to the G7 Finance Ministers which details out its recommendations for enhancing the resilience of the financial markets and financial institutions. These are in five areas:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12065768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12065768", "title": "Fire retardant gel", "text": "Fire retardant gel\n\nFire-retardant gels are superabsorbent polymer slurries with a \"consistency almost like petroleum jelly.\" Used as fire retardants, they can be used for structure protection and in direct-attack applications against wildfires. They are also used in the movie industry to protect stunt persons from flames when filming action movie scenes.\n\nThe practical use of gels was limited until the 1950s as advances in copolymerization techniques led to reproducible, batchwise preparation of swellable resins with uniform cross-linking. This technology was later used in the development of a \"substantially continuous, adherent, particulate coating composition of water-swollen, gelled particles of a crosslinked, water-insoluble, water-swellable polymer.\"\n\nThe water-absorbent polymers in fire-retardant gels are similar to those used in diapers.\n\nThe polymer in gels soaks up hundreds of times its weight in water creating millions of tiny drops of water surrounded by and protected by a polymer shell. The result is a \"bubblet\" or a drop of water surrounded by a polymer shell in contrast to a bubble which is air surrounded by liquid. As the gel and water are sprayed onto an exposed surface, millions of tiny \"bubblets\" are stacked one on top of another. The stacking of the water \"bubblets\" form a thermal protective \"blanket\" over the surface to which it is applied. In order for the heat of the fire to penetrate the protected surface, it must burn off each layer of the gel \"bubblets\" coating. Each layer holds the heat away from the next layer of bubblets beneath. The polymer shell of each bubblets and their stacking significantly prevent water evaporation.\n\nThe stacking of the bubblets is similar to aspirated fire fighting foam or compressed air foam systems, except that bubblets are water filled, whereas foam bubbles are only filled with air. Due to the high specific heat of water, it requires more energy to raise the temperature of water than air. Therefore, water-filled bubblets will absorb more heat than the air-filled foam bubbles (which are more effective for vapor suppression). When gel is applied to a surface such as an exterior wall, the water-filled bubblets can absorb much of the heat given off by the fire, thereby slowing the fire from reaching the wall.\n\nGels can provide thermal protection from fire for extended periods even at . Depending on the fire conditions, applied fire retardant gels offer fire protection for periods of 6 to 36 hours.\n\nAfter the retained water is completely evaporated from a gel, fire resistance is lost, but can be restored by re-wetting the surface if gel material is still adherent.\n\nDuring a fire in the Black Hills National Forest, \"nearly all homes coated with a slimy gel were saved while dozens of houses nearby burned to the ground.\"\n\nCertain supplemental fire protection insurance may include the application of fire-retardant gel to homes during wildfire. Claimed to work \"best when applied hours before a fire approaches\", gel is applied using specially designed trucks by private firms. However, danger may be high and private firms may interfere with fire efforts. In response to such a concern, Sam DiGiovanna, chief of Firebreak response program, a private response team, stated: \"If whoever is running the fire thinks it's too dangerous to go into a particular area, we don't go into that area.\"\n\nThese gels are useful when filming scenes in which it is desired to give the illusion that someone is on fire. To do so, the gel is applied to an area of the body. Next, a fuel is placed on top of the gel. When ready to film the scene, the fuel is lit on fire. The gel insulates the person from the energy released from the burning fuel. The energy from the burning fuel goes into the gel, but not the stunt person. Thus, the stunt person is protected from being burned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4350194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4350194", "title": "Fishermen's Articles of Agreement Convention, 1959", "text": "Fishermen's Articles of Agreement Convention, 1959\n\nFishermen's Articles of Agreement Convention, 1959 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1959, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to fishermen's articles of agreement...\n\nAs of 2013, the convention had been ratified by 23 states. One of the ratifying states—Bosnia and Herzegovina—has denounced the convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "17281921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17281921", "title": "Folkewall", "text": "Folkewall\n\nThe Folkewall is a construction with the dual functions of growing plants and purifying waste water. It was designed by Folke Günther in Sweden. \n\nInspired by the \"Sanitas wall\" at Dr Gösta Nilsson's Sanitas farm project in Botswana, this technique makes an efficient use of space by fulfilling two essential functions: vertical plant growing and purification of greywater. This system is also known as a living wall or green wall.\n\nThe basic design is a wall of hollow concrete slabs, with compartments opening on one or both sides of the wall. The hollows are filled with inert material like gravel, expanded clay aggregate, perlite, or vermiculite. It is designed to let the water trickle over the longest possible treatment path along the length of the wall among the pebbles. \n\nThe water is brought in at the top, and percolates following a zig-zag pattern inside the wall. As it does so the plant roots grow among the inert material and extract nutrients from the water. A film of beneficial bacteria grows over the pebbles, releasing the nutrients in the percolating greywater. At the bottom of the wall a container collects the purified water, which can then be used for non-potable household use, for watering the garden, or it can be returned to the top of the wall.\n\n\"Plants used\": since the harvesting of the plants is a part of the purification process, fast growing, herbaceous crops are particularly suited for the Folkewall. Annual food crops are suitable, perennials like trees and shrubs should be avoided.\n\n\"Greywater\": The water feeding the plants in the wall must be free of heavy metals and/or unsafe pollutants, notably human waste. This requires using source-separating toilets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35320414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35320414", "title": "Follow the money", "text": "Follow the money\n\n\"Follow the money\" is a catchphrase popularized by the 1976 drama-documentary motion picture \"All the President's Men\", which suggests a money trail or corruption scheme within high (often political) office.\n\nFor the film, screenwriter William Goldman attributed the phrase to Deep Throat, the informant who took part in revealing the Watergate scandal. However, the phrase is mentioned neither in the non-fiction book that preceded the film, nor in any documentation of the scandal. The book does contain the phrase \"The key was the secret campaign cash, and it should all be traced,\" which Woodward says to Senator Sam Ervin.\n\nThe phrase \"Follow the money\" was mentioned by Henry E. Peterson at the 1974 Senate Judiciary Committee hearings as Earl J. Silbert was nominated to U.S. Attorney. A 1975 book by Clive Borrell and Brian Cashinella, \"Crime in Britain Today\", also uses the phrase.\n\nSince the 1970s, \"follow the money\" has been used several times in investigative journalism and political debate. One example is \"Follow the Money\", a series of CBS reports.\n\nIn September 2016, the Trump campaign used the phrase in criticizing Hillary Clinton and the Clinton Foundation. \n\nIn February 2017, Carl Bernstein used the phrase to encourage reporters to discover President Trump's potential conflicts of interest.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13955779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13955779", "title": "Free video", "text": "Free video\n\nFree video refers to video content that is free to use for any purpose, or licensed under a free and open license to such an effect, at least for distribution, and at most for modification and commercial usage. This can also apply to graphical animations.\n\nTo be a free video - referring to freedom (as in free software), not to price - a video's entire content must be previously licensed under a free content license. A video is considered legally unfree if any portion of the video was previously licensed under a proprietary license that restricts usage and prevents derivations and commercial usage.\n\nUnder this approach, a video cannot be considered free if it includes snippets or whole copies of any text, image, video or audio that has been previously licensed under a proprietary, unfree license. The legal concept of fair use of a third party's music or other content in one's own video work may protect against Digital Millennium Copyright Act takedowns. In the 2015 court case \"Lenz v. Universal Music Group Inc.\", the court determined that Universal Music Group should have considered fair use before issuing a take-down. The case focuses on the usage of a song licensed by Universal that was used in a YouTube video of a dancing toddler.\n\nAt the moment, there are no known free content licenses that are specifically designed for video content. Instead, most known free video content is under a Creative Commons license and other, non-media-type-specific free content licenses, or within the public domain as the video's copyright has already expired.\n\nWhile the discussion on free video is related to an extent to the advocacy for freely-licensed data compression technologies such as Theora for video and Ogg Vorbis for audio (particularly in the 2008 debate on whether to include the two within the WHATWG draft for HTML5 on multimedia), the latter argument is related more to the advocacy of free software.\n\nHowever, it is arguable that the free software movement stands to gain from the licensing of video and audio in a freely-usable format under a free content license.\n\nFree video is used extensively on Wikipedia, and is also the exclusive type of video content stored on the Wikimedia Commons. While Wikipedia allows for the uploading of fair use video (only in Ogg Theora format), the Wikimedia Commons strictly forbids the uploading of fair use video or any video containing depiction of symbols or other content that is prior licensed under a proprietary license.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1597207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1597207", "title": "GM-AvtoVAZ", "text": "GM-AvtoVAZ\n\nGM-AvtoVAZ is a joint venture in Russia between General Motors and AvtoVAZ set up in 2001 and began producing the Chevrolet Niva, based on the Lada Niva, at its factory in Tolyatti from 2002. Though both companies have an equal share of ownership, the venture is managed exclusively by General Motors.\n\nIn 2004 the joint venture briefly produced the Chevrolet Viva, based on the 1998 Opel Astra saloon, but after low sales of only 5,000 the model was dropped.\n\nThe joint venture reached difficulties and production stoppages for a fortnight in February 2006 when AvtoVAZ was taken over by Rosoboronexport, the Russian state-owned arms-export agency, and a disagreement between the new owners and GM lead to stoppages of the supply of engines and other components.\n\nThe joint venture announced plans in September 2012 to expand by 2015, with an additional 1400 staff and increasing its annual production capacity from 100,000 to 120,000 vehicles.\n\nThe joint venture was created with investment from GM ($99.1m, 41.61%), AvtoVAZ ($99.1m, 41.61%) and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development ($40m, 16,78%, plus a loan facility for $100 million). In September 2012 GM and Avtovaz purchased EBRD's share, turning the joint venture into a 50/50 relationship.\n\nAs of December 2014, the joint venture has produced 571,852 vehicles since production at Tolyatti commenced in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18770005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18770005", "title": "Gerald Fitzgibbon", "text": "Gerald Fitzgibbon\n\nGerald Fitzgibbon, K.C. (8 October 1866 – 6 December 1942), was an Irish barrister, independent Teachta Dála (TD) and one of the original judges of the Supreme Court of Ireland.\n\nHe came from a noted legal family: his grandfather, Gerald Fitzgibbon was a Queen's Counsel and Master in Chancery and his father, also Gerald Fitzgibbon, was a Lord Justice of the pre-independence Irish Court of Appeal: along with Christopher Palles and Hugh Holmes, the second Gerald Fitzgibbon was credited with making the Court of Appeal a tribunal whose judgements are still quoted with respect today. Mr. Justice Fitzgibbon through his mother was the grandson of Francis Alexander FitzGerald, Baron of the Court of Exchequer.\n\nHe was born in Dublin into an Anglican family, eldest son of Gerald Fitzgibbon and Margaret Anne Fitzgerald. He was educated at Clifton College, Bristol, and the University of Dublin, where he took his degree of Bachelor of Arts. He was called to the Irish Bar in 1887, practised on the Munster Circuit, became Queen's Counsel in 1908, and a Bencher of the King's Inns in 1912.\n\nHe was elected unopposed to the House of Commons of Southern Ireland at the 1921 elections, representing the University of Dublin constituency as an independent Unionist, and acted as Speaker at its single session, with only four representatives attending. As a unionist he did not participate in the Second Dáil. He was re-elected for the same constituency at the 1922 general election and became a member of the Third Dáil. He did not contest the 1923 general election.\n\nIn 1924, the forced retirement of almost all the senior judges of the former regime made the selection of suitable replacements a serious issue. Hugh Kennedy, the new Chief Justice of the Irish Free State, recommended Fitzgibbon as a judge of the Supreme Court simply on account of his legal ability, despite their serious differences on political issues, which Hogan refers to as a clash between Kennedy's \"enthusiastic nationalism\" and Fitzgibbon's \"pessimistic scepticism\".\n\nKennedy soon came to regret his decision to recommend Fitzgibbon for appointment to the Bench: his diary records the increasing tension between the two men. Although Fitzgibbon was a Protestant Unionist, his friends insisted that he was by no means opposed, at first, to the new regime (and indeed if he had been, he would hardly have accepted high office in it). However he seems to have become deeply disillusioned with the increasingly Roman Catholic Irish Free State, and by 1929 he and Chief Justice Kennedy are said to have regarded each other with deep suspicion.\n\nThe tension came to a head in 1935 when Fitzgibbon was in the majority in \"State (Ryan) v Lennon\"; over Kennedy's strong dissenting judgment, he found that the Constitution of the Irish Free State contained provisions for its own amendment which allowed for suspension of the most basic human rights.\n\nIn \"Re Westby\" in 1934, on the straightforward question of whether a Protestant ward of court should or should not be educated at an English public school, Chief Justice Kennedy's decision that the boy should be educated in Ireland was overruled by the Supreme Court, presided over by Fitzgibbon. Kennedy regarded Fitzgibbon's judgment as a personal attack on him.\n\nHe took some interest in the enactment of the 1937 Constitution of Ireland and made some suggestions on the procedure for referring a Bill to the Supreme Court under Article 26.\n\nDespite his obvious unhappiness in his professional life, he remained on the Supreme Court until he reached retirement age in 1938; Chief Justice Kennedy believed that his somewhat unsatisfactory pension arrangements made Fitzgibbon cling to an office he had come to despise. Hogan points out that in this regard at least Fitzgibbon had good reason to be bitter with his treatment by the Government: because he was required on age grounds to retire 9 months before he qualified for the full amount, he seems to have received a pension equivalent to only 42% of his salary.\n"}
{"id": "46423648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46423648", "title": "Herma Hill Kay", "text": "Herma Hill Kay\n\nHerma Hill Kay (August 18, 1934 – June 10, 2017) was the Barbara Nachtrieb Armstrong Professor of Law at UC Berkeley School of Law (Boalt Hall). She previously served as dean of Boalt from 1992 to 2000. She specialized in family law and conflict of laws.\n\nKay was born in Orangeburg, South Carolina in 1934 to a third-grade teacher mother, Herma Lee Crawford, and an Army chaplain father, Charles Esdorn Hill. She studied English at Southern Methodist University and graduated \"magna cum laude\" in 1956. At SMU, she was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa. She then attended law school at the University of Chicago, graduating third in her class in 1959. After law school, she clerked for one year for Justice Roger Traynor of the California Supreme Court. She joined the faculty at Boalt Hall in 1960 and became dean of that faculty in 1992. Kay died on June 10, 2017, at the age of 82.\n\nIn 1966, Kay served on the California Governor's Commission on the Family, which proposed that California adopt a no-fault regime for divorce. The state of California adopted a law based on that recommendation, the first of its kind in the United States, in 1970. Along with Robert Levy, she was co-reporter of the committee that prepared the Uniform Marriage and Divorce Act.\n\nIn 1985, Kay was elected to the Council of the American Law Institute. Kay was president of the Association of American Law Schools in 1989 and secretary of the American Bar Association Section on Legal Education and Admissions to the Bar from 1999 to 2001. She received 1992 Margaret Brent Award to Women Lawyers of Distinction and the 2003 Boalt Hall Alumni Association Faculty Lifetime Achievement Award.\n\nKay has also been recognized for her teaching, receiving the UC Berkeley Distinguished Teaching Award, in 1962, and the Society of American Law Teachers Teaching Award.\n\nIn 1999, the Boalt Hall Women's Association created a fellowship in Kay's name to support students pursuing \"public interest work benefiting women.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10149404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10149404", "title": "Hut tax", "text": "Hut tax\n\nThe hut tax was a type of taxation introduced by British colonialists in Africa on a per hut or household basis. It was variously payable in money, labour, grain or stock and benefited the colonial authorities in four related ways: it raised money; it supported the currency (see chartalism); it broadened the cash economy, aiding further development; and it forced Africans to labour in the colonial economy. Households which had survived on, and stored their wealth in cattle ranching now sent members to work for the colonialists in order to raise cash with which to pay the tax. The colonial economy depended upon black African labour to build new towns and railways, and in southern Africa to work in the rapidly developing mines.\n\nBy 1908 the following hut taxes were imposed in southern Africa: \n\nIn Mashonaland, now part of Zimbabwe, hut tax was introduced at the rate of ten shillings per hut in 1894. Although authorized by the Colonial Office in London, the tax was paid to the British South Africa Company, the agent of colonial government in the area. Coinciding with confiscations of cattle, the introduction of forced labour and a series of natural disasters, the tax probably contributed to the Shona part of the rebellion against the colonialists in 1896, known as the First \"Chimurenga\" or Second Matabele War.\n\nThe tax was also used in Uganda and Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia). In Sierra Leone it sparked the Hut Tax War of 1898.\n\nLiberia also implemented a hut tax, which in one case led to a Kru revolt in 1915.\n\n"}
{"id": "2484529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2484529", "title": "Incidental question", "text": "Incidental question\n\nIncidental questions in private international law with respect to the problems and elements discussed below\nIn the Roman conflict of laws, an incidental question is a legal issue that arises in connection with the major cause of action in a lawsuit. The forum court will have already decided that it has jurisdiction to hear the case (resolving any issue relating to forum shopping) and will be working through the next two stages of the conflict process, namely: characterisation and choice of law. For example, the court may classify the cause as \"succession\", but it notes that the plaintiff brings the claim for relief as the deceased's widow. Before the court can adjudicate on the main issue, it must first decide whether the plaintiff actually has the status claimed, i.e. the incidental question would be the validity of the claimed marriage. The inconvenient reality is that many lawsuits involve a number of interdependent legal issues. In purely domestic cases, this poses no difficulty because a judge will freely move from one domestic law to another to resolve the dispute. But in a conflict case, the question is whether the incidental question is resolved by reference either to its own choice of law rules, or to the same law that governs the main issue (the \"lex causae\"). States have not formulated a consistent answer to this question.\n\nFor an incidental question to arise, the forum court must have applied its characterisation rules to determine that:\n\nSuppose that a French court hears the case of an American national who dies domiciled in California leaving movables in England. The French choice of law rule would refer the distribution of personal property to California law which has community property provisions entitling his widow to share in his estate. The marriage was in England and, as both the \"lex loci celebrationis\" and the \"lex situs\", English law declares it valid even though it is void \"ab initio\" under California law because it is considered bigamous (see nullity): a divorce decree granted by the Arcadian courts was recognised as valid in England, but not in California. Should the widow's claim be determined by the English or California law? There are different views:\nOne of the more interesting cases on this topic is the Canadian Supreme Court case of \"Schwebel v Ungar\" [1964] 48 DLR (2d) 644 in which a Jewish husband and wife, domiciled in Hungary, married in Hungary. While they were emigrating to Israel, they found themselves in Italy and the husband divorced his wife by get. Under the laws of Hungary (their \"lex domicilii\") and Italy, the religious form of divorce was invalid, but it was recognised as effective by the law of Israel where they acquired a domicile of choice. Subsequently, the wife moved to Canada and, without abandoning her Israeli domicile, went through a second ceremony of marriage. The second husband petitioned for nullity alleging that the marriage was bigamous. The Supreme Court held the marriage to be valid. The main question was the wife's capacity to marry which, under Canadian law, is determined by her \"lex domicilii\", i.e. the law of Israel at the time of the second ceremony. The incidental question was the validity of the divorce which was to be determined either by their \"lex domicilii\" at the relevant time or by Italian law as the \"lex loci actus\". The judgment seems to suggest that the court decided both questions by reference to the law of Israel as the law governing the main question.\n\nIn \"Lawrence v Lawrence\" [1985] Fam 106 the English Court of Appeal was asked by the second husband to rule on the validity of another potentially bigamous marriage. The wife first married in Brazil and then divorced the husband in Nevada (this was not recognised in Brazil) and immediately married the second husband in Nevada. The two laws were the wife's \"lex domicilii\" to which English choice of law rules referred her capacity to marry (under Brazilian law she lacked capacity to marry the second husband) and the validity of the second marriage which was determined under the \"lex loci celebrationis\". The case was decided by characterising the case as one of divorce recognition rather than capacity to marry.\n\nThe outcome suggests that the same law will be applied to both the main and the incidental questions on the understanding that the forum court is probably making a policy decision on which outcome is the more desirablein both cases, the courts seem to have been interested in upholding the validity of the second marriage reflecting a rebuttable presumption in both jurisdictions to recognise marriages valid under their \"lex loci celebrationis\" in default of any strong policy reason to the contrary.\n"}
{"id": "26344219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26344219", "title": "Judicial Conference of the State of New York", "text": "Judicial Conference of the State of New York\n\nThe Judicial Conference of the State of New York is an institution of the New York State Unified Court System responsible for surveying current practice in the administration of the state's courts, compiling statistics, and suggesting legislation and regulations. Its members include the Chief Judge of the New York Court of Appeals and judges from the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division.\n\nIt was created by Laws of 1955, ch. 869, and codified at New York Judiciary Law article 7-A (§§ 214, 214-A). It is the successor body of the Judicial Council of the State of New York, which was abolished with the repeal of article 2-A of the Judiciary Law in Laws of 1955, ch. 869. That body was formed for the purpose of surveying current practice in the administration of the State's courts, compiling statistics, and suggesting legislation.\n"}
{"id": "10524277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10524277", "title": "Judicial appointments in Canada", "text": "Judicial appointments in Canada\n\nJudicial appointments in Canada are made by the federal government or provincial government. Superior and federal court judges are appointed by federal government, while inferior courts are appointed by the provincial government.\n\nThere are two levels of courts in each province or territory (except Nunavut): superior (upper level) courts appointed by the federal government, and a provincial or territorial court appointed by the province or territory.\n\nCandidates for these courts are screened by a judicial advisory committee established for each province or territory. Several provinces have created arm's length committees that make a short list of recommendations. Committee are often composed of representatives of the federal and provincial governments, the legal profession, the judiciary, and the general public.\n\nIn Ontario, the Judicial Appointments Advisory Committee (JAAC) is made up of 13 members: 7 lay members, 2 judges, 1 member appointed by the Ontario Judicial Council, and 3 from the legal community. JAAC recommends a list of 3 or 4 candidates, far less than its federal counterpart. Proponents of the system argue that this procedure has limited patronage appoints to Ontario courts, and has diversified the makeup of judges in the province. Unlike other committees, the JAAC advertises openings and interviews candidates in person.\n\nLawyers who meet the legal and constitutional requirements can apply, as well as existing provincial or territorial court judges. These candidates must complete a comprehensive Personal History Form, which is submitted to the appropriate advisory committee. In its assessment of each candidate, the committee reviews the PHF and consults references and other persons both in and outside the legal realm. Some committees interview the candidate.\n\nA committee of eight persons vets candidates in each region across Canada. Each candidate is assessed as being \"recommended\" or \"not recommended.\" A third designation, \"highly recommended\" was eliminated in 2007, which critics say enhanced the government's ability to make patronage appointments. The federal government said the system emphasizes merit, and the large pool allows the government \"to address the particular needs of the court in question.\"\n\nA list of all candidates reviewed by the committee, together with the above categorization and reasons, or \"comments\" in the case of judge candidates, is forwarded by the committee to the federal Minister of Justice.\n\nThe Minister draws an appointment from the list of names received from the committees, and recommends that individual to the federal cabinet. Where the appointment is that of a Chief Justice or a Puisne Justice, the recommendation to cabinet is made by the Prime Minister of Canada.\n\n\"Elevation,\" or the appointment of a superior court judge already in office to another superior court (usually an appellate court), is not subject to the above application and assessment procedures. These appointments are effected through a recommendation to cabinet by the Minister of Justice (or Prime Minister) following consultations undertaken by the Minister.\n\nIn November 2005, a subcommittee of the Canadian parliament expressed the need for change and for more transparency in this appointment process. The subcommittee proposed that the Minister consult the Chief Justice of the court involved on the needs of the court prior to an appointment, that specific court vacancies and their requirements be advertised and that, subject to further study, advisory committees develop a short list of interviewed candidates for each vacancy.\n\nAppointments to the Federal Court and to the Federal Court of Appeal are subject to the application and assessment procedure. \nAppointments to the Tax Court are subject to candidate assessments by a single five member advisory committee for all Canada which includes a representative of the Tax Court—as a one-year pilot project announced in November 2006.\n\nEligibility for the Supreme Court of Canada is set out in the Supreme Court Act. Judges of the court are made up of eight puisne judges and the Chief Justice. Candidates must have either been a judge of a superior court or a lawyer for at least ten years in their province's bar. Appointments are made by the Governor General of Canada on advice of the Prime Minister.\n\nAppointments to the Supreme Court of Canada are subject to the legal requirement that three judges must be appointed from Quebec. By convention, the other 6 are appointed from Ontario (3), Western Canada (2), and Atlantic Canada (1). These appointments are not subject to the procedures described above for the appointment of superior court judges, and are made on the basis of a recommendation to cabinet by the Prime Minister. Recently, this has been augmented through the establishment of an ad hoc advisory committee for each vacancy on the Court; this committee reviews a list of 7 nominees submitted by the federal Minister of Justice, and shortlists three candidates from which the Prime Minister chooses a name for appointment. In addition, in February 2006 a parliamentary committee was allowed to interview the Prime Minister's selected candidate prior to his appointment.\n\nThe appointment process has been the source of some controversy in recent years, as appointments occur with no input from parliament or opposition political parties. Critics have alleged that this process has allowed the Prime Minister to effectively \"stack\" the courts with ideologically like-minded individuals who will support the current government's stance. Conservative critics have argued this leads to the rise of partisan, activist judges instead of neutral ones. Conversely, supporters have justified the process of appointment on the grounds that quiet appointments made as a result of the Prime Minister's consultation with experts result in better choices than ones that would be made in a public process where opposition politicians were allowed to interrogate the nominees and politicize the process.\n\nIn response to the critics, Prime Minister Paul Martin made a few changes the appointment process in 2004. He indicated his intention to appoint a special parliamentary committee to screen the new nominees and report to parliament on their findings, though neither this committee nor the parliament has the power to block recommendations. Similarly, the committee would not have the ability to directly interview the nominee. The Minister of Justice appeared before the House of Commons Standing Committee on Justice and Human Rights to explain, for the first time in public, the process for selecting the justices.\n\nHowever, when the names of Justices Abella and Charron were put forward, parliament was dissolved, and thus unable to form committees. The government announced that the nominees would be reviewed by a special parliamentary committee, which would issue a report to Parliament. An ad hoc parliamentary committee was created to review Abella and Charron's appointments.\n\nIn addition to the parliamentarians, the committee also had two members of the Canadian Judicial Council, sitting judges who participated in the closed door discussions on the process, and recused themselves for the consideration of the specific appointees. Committee members from the Conservative Party of Canada refused to sign their committee's final report, calling the entire process \"insufficient.\"\n\nIn April 2005, the Liberal government announced another change to the selection process: the advisory committee (which includes many federal nominees) would see a list of seven names given to them by the Minister of Justice and would be required to cut the list to three. The Prime Minister would choose one name from the list of the three remaining candidates to put forward to the Governor General. The advisory committee includes a Member of Parliament from each recognized party, a retired judge and, from the region where the vacancy arises, a nominee of the provincial Attorneys General, a nominee of the law societies and two prominent Canadians who are neither lawyers nor judges. A new advisory committee will be formed each time a Supreme Court vacancy occurs.\n\nIn February 2006, Prime Minister Stephen Harper's used an \"Ad Hoc Committee to Review a Nominee for the Supreme Court of Canada\" to interview Marshall Rothstein prior to his appointment. The committee had no power to veto the nomination, which was simply to allow for questions from parliamentarians. The Prime Minister maintained the final say on who to recommend for appointment.\n\nIn 2011, Harper again appointed two Supreme Court justices, Andromache Karakatsanis and Michael Moldaver, from a shortlist of 6 candidates unanimously approved by a multi-party committee of Conservative, Liberal, and New Democratic Party Members of Parliament. They each later appeared before hoc parliamentary committees, although the committee had no authority to approve or deny the appointments.\n\nIn 2013, Harper appointed Marc Nadon as a member from Quebec. Due to controversy about the appointment, the federal government referred the constitutionality of the appointment to the Supreme Court of Canada. In their decision in \"Reference Re Supreme Court Act, ss 5 and 6\", the Supreme Court quashed his appointment, concluding he did not meet the eligibility criteria provided in the \"Supreme Court Act\". At the time, Chief Justice Beverley McLachlin called Harper to consult with him on the advisability of Nadon's appointment. Harper refused to take the call and criticized McLachlin for making the call. Harper's comments were criticized by the legal community and a complaint was forwarded to the International Commission of Jurists in Switzerland. The ICJ concluded that McLachlin deserved an apology from Harper, but none had been given as of July 2014.\n\nJudges in positions that are under federal control (federally appointed positions) are eligible to serve on the bench until age 75. In some but not all Provincial and Territorial positions, appointed judges have tenure until age 70 instead.\n\nAs for removal from the bench, judges have only rarely been removed from the bench in Canada. For federally appointed judges, it is the task of the Canadian Judicial Council to investigate complaints and allegations of misconduct on the part of federally appointed judges. The Council may recommend to the (federal) Minister of Justice that the judge be removed. To do so, the Minister must in turn get the approval of both the House of Commons and the Senate before a judge can be removed from office. (The rules for provincial/territorial judges are similar, but they can be removed by a provincial or territorial cabinet.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31929479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31929479", "title": "Legal status of Salvia divinorum in the United States", "text": "Legal status of Salvia divinorum in the United States\n\nThe legal status of \"Salvia divinorum\" in the United States varies, with 29 states (and the territory of Guam) having completely banned it and others considering proposals for banning its use.\n\nIn late 2002, Rep. Joe Baca (D- California) introduced a bill (Congress bill HR 5607) to schedule salvia as a controlled substance at the national level. Those opposed to Joe Baca's bill include Daniel Siebert, who sent a letter to Congress arguing against the proposed legislation, and the Center for Cognitive Liberty & Ethics (CCLE), who sent key members of the US Congress a report on \"Salvia divinorum\" and its active principle, along with letters from an array of scientists who expressed concern that scheduling \"Salvia divinorum\" would negatively impact important research on the plant. Baca's bill did not pass.\n\nDespite this, a number of states have proposed their own legislation. For example, Louisiana, Missouri, Tennessee, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, North Dakota, and Minnesota have so far passed laws prohibiting \"Salvia divinorum\". \"Salvia divinorum\" remains legal in other states, however. Though some bills have died during session, the situation is subject to further change pending the outcome of more recent bills still at the proposal stage.\n\nSimilar to the international situation, in the United States, where individual state legislation does exist, it varies from state to state in its prohibitive degree. Some states, such as Delaware, Louisiana, and Missouri, have imposed the strictest Schedule I classification. By contrast, the state of Maine has passed laws imposing age restrictions, prohibiting use by and sale to minors under 18 years of age - in a manner generally consistent with controls existing for tobacco and alcohol.\n\nTennessee has some provision for \"Salvia divinorum\" in its natural plant form. - There the law classes its use as a 'Class A misdemeanour', but it is not an offence to possess, plant, cultivate, grow, or harvest \"Salvia divinorum\" for \"aesthetic, landscaping, or decorative purposes\".\n\nIn some states there is no mention of \"Salvia divinorums's\" active constituent at all. In Delaware for example the plant in its natural form is classified as 'Schedule I', while much more potent purely extracted salvinorin A remains quite legal.\n\nIn Illinois, the wording of the legislation does not mention salvinorin A either, but instead includes \"the seeds thereof, any extract from any part of that plant, and every compound, \"[...]\" derivative, mixture, or preparation of that plant\". Daniel Siebert has criticised this wording as being \"absurdly broad in scope, for it implies that any substance extracted from \"Salvia divinorum\" (water, chlorophyll, whatever) would be treated as a Schedule I controlled substance under the proposed law.\"\n\nThe DEA has indicated on its website that it is aware of \"Salvia divinorum\" and is evaluating the plant for possible scheduling. Daniel Siebert claims he was informed on July 20, 2007, that the DEA had initiated an Eight Factor Analysis of \"Salvia divinorum\". The Controlled Substances Act requires that this analysis be performed before a substance can be scheduled as a controlled substance. The eight factors considered are:\n\nBased on the results of the analysis, the DEA may recommend that \"Salvia divinorum\" be scheduled as a controlled substance. This analysis will probably take several months to be completed. Siebert said \"Given that there is no compelling evidence to suggest that \"Salvia divinorum\" presents a significant risk to public safety, I am hopeful that the DEA will be reasonable and not criminalize this beneficial plant unnecessarily. If they do decide to criminalize it, it will take a minimum of 30 days after they give public notice of their intentions in the Federal Register before the change of legal status takes effect.\"\n\nThis table summarizes the status of various state proposals for salvia legislation, with links to following detail state by state.\n\nAs of July 17, 2010, it is illegal to possess, purchase or sell salvia.\n\nOn March 29, 2007, Senator Hank Erwin (R) proposed Senate Bill 330, which would have made \"Salvia divinorum\" a Schedule I substance in Alabama; however, the bill died in the Senate Judiciary Committee.\n\nOn October 18, 2007, State Senator Roger Bedford (D-Russellville), and Representative Johnny Mack Morrow (D-Red Bay) were reported as saying that they are going to propose legislation again that would make salvia a Schedule I drug, in Alabama.\n\nMorrow said - \"Drug dealers throughout America are always trying to come up with new methods of selling our children drugs,\" [...] \"This legislation is all about protecting our children.\"\n\nBedford said - \"We want to see the law catch up with these designer drugs\".\n\nFranklin County District Attorney Joey Rushing said that he hopes Alabama can step up as a leader in fighting to control it before it becomes a major problem - \"It's cheap, it's easy to buy and it's dangerous,\" [...] \"Those are combinations that we need to stop before it's too late\" he said.\n\nIn May 2008, it was reported that Senator Bedford's bill had died, having never got onto the Senate's work agenda.\n\nSenator Hank Erwin, who was sponsoring a salvia bill for the second year, was reported as saying that he will try again next year \"because people of any age can legally buy salvia in Alabama\".\n\nOn April 5, 2006, Senator Gene P. Therriault (R) proposed adding \"Salvia divinorum\" to Alaska's list of Schedule IIA controlled substances. The bill died in committee.\n\nOn January 16, 2007, he proposed another bill (Senate Bill 38).\n\nOn February 2, 2008, the Anchorage Daily News reported that the bill still remained in the Finance Committee, but that Therriault hoped it would be addressed in the 2008 session. The bill did not progress last time because it got buried behind higher-priority bills that needed to be heard in Finance, said Miles Baker, legislative assistant to Sen. Bert Stedman, R-Sitka, who co-chairs the committee.\n\nTherriault claimed that the drug's effects are similar to LSD's, and too powerful, dangerous and unpredictable to leave it unrestricted. \"What I'm trying to do here is be proactive instead of reactive to the newest drug on the scene,\" he said. Theriault also communicated in an email to an individual expressing concern over the criminalization of this plant that \"we cannot have people worshiping plants\" which raises concern over his Baptist background and the separation of religion and State.\n\nLt. Andy Greenstreet, deputy commander of the Alaska Bureau of Alcohol and Drug Enforcement said, \"Reports of problems stemming from the plant's use are rare to nonexistent in Alaska.\"\n\nJack Degenstein, with the Alaska Libertarian Party, who opposed Therriault's bill in a Senate hearing in 2007, said, \"This is absolutely not a public safety risk\" [...] \"just because it's powerful doesn't mean it's dangerous.\"\n\nJason Dowell, chairman of the Alaska Libertarian Party, said people should have the freedom to choose, especially when the choice is about a plant that has had traditional medicinal uses in Mexico. \"It's ridiculous that they would try to make plants illegal,\" Dowell said. \"It's just a recipe for disaster. They're going to send innocent people to prison and invade their privacy.\"\n\nDaniel Seibert's website reported that Therriault's second salvia bill (Senate Bill 38) also died in committee.\n\nHowever, in February 2009, it was reported that Alaska's Health and Social Services committee has passed (referred to the next stage Judiciary committee) Therriault's third attempt to outlaw salvia (Senate Bill 52).\n\n\"The problem with continuing to allow uncontrolled access to salvia is that the long term effects appear to be the same as other hallucinogens, such as LSD and mescaline, and that is often depression and schizophrenia,\" said Sen. Gene Therriault.\n\nOn February 5, 2007, Assembly Member Anthony Adams (R) proposed Assembly Bill 259. The bill wording was amended on March 12, 2007 to include salvinorin A. The bill proposed adding \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A to California's list of Schedule I controlled substances.\n\nThe bill was referred to the Committee on Public Safety with a due date for public hearing on March 27, 2007. The bill analysis indicated that opposition to the bill was registered by, among others, Daniel Siebert and the Drug Policy Alliance. The bill was defeated in Committee by a 3-2 vote. A reconsideration was granted and the second hearing was on January 15, 2008.\n\nThe bill wording was significantly amended on January 7, 2008. The proposal for Schedule I classification was dropped and replaced instead with restrictions on the sale to minors. Section 379 to be added to the penal code - \"Every person who sells, dispenses, distributes, furnishes, administers, gives, or offers to sell, dispense, distribute, furnish, administer, or give \"Salvia divinorum\" or salvinorin A, or any substance or material containing \"Salvia divinorum\" or salvinorin A, to any person who is less than 18 years of age, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six months, or by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both that fine and imprisonment.\"\n\nThe amended bill was passed out from the Assembly Committee on Appropriations to 'Consent Calendar' with a recommendation 'Do Pass' (Ayes 16, Noes 0) on January 24, 2008, having passed the Assembly Committee on Public Safety (Ayes 7, Noes 0) the previous week.\n\nAdams said he was initially asked to address the issue of \"Salvia divinorum\" by officials from the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department. Lt. Barbara Ferguson, the department's legislative liaison, said \"I am not real happy with the limited bill that we have. Our intention, when we started this, was to make it completely illegal. ... But because of how liberal the legislature is here in California, that was impossible to do. There will come a time when we can completely outlaw it here in California.\"\n\nIt was reported that Anthony Adams had met Kathy Chidester during discussions over the bill. Kathy Chidester believes salvia was a contributing factor to her son's suicide, which occurred in January 2006. She argued for an outright ban in her home state of Delaware. Schedule I classification was introduced there three months after the teenager's death in the form of \"Brett’s law\". Since then Kathy Chidester has campaigned more widely to see bans introduced in other states.\n\nAdams's amended bill passed unanimously in the Assembly on January 29, 2008 (Ayes: 76, Nays: 0). It passed in the Senate on July 2, 2008 (ayes: 23, nays: 5). Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger (R) signed the bill into law on July 22, 2008. It went into effect on January 1, 2009.\n\nOn January 23, 2006, Delaware teenager, Brett Chidester took his own life by climbing into a tent with a charcoal grill where he died of carbon monoxide poisoning . In an essay found after his death, he wrote \"Salvia allows us to give up our senses and wander in the interdimensional time and space…Also, and this is probably hard for most to accept, our existence in general is pointless. Final point: Us earthly humans are nothing.\" Even though it was written earlier, Brett's notes have subsequently been presented in media reports as if they were part of his suicide note. Brett's suicide note did not mention salvia. There are arguably more relevant factors, with the extent and significance of Brett's use of alcohol being a matter of contention , and with it being reported that Brett had been suffering from depression. Given the details of Brett's suicide, in particular its premeditated nature and slow method, it is unlikely that he was immediately under \"Salvia divinorum's\" influence at the time of his death. There have been no other reported cases of salvia-related suicides anywhere else in the world. Also, Brett had told his parents that he had actually ceased his experimentation with the plant.\n\nDespite the doubts that have been expressed about the lack of evidence against salvia in this case , Senator Karen Peterson sponsored Senate Bill 259, \"Brett’s law\", which passed as state legislation classifying \"Salvia divinorum\" as a Schedule I controlled substance.\n\nSenator Karen Peterson and Brett's parents Kathy and Dennis Chidester have subsequently continued to campaign for and support Schedule I legislation beyond their home state of Delaware. \n\n\"Salvia divinorum\" is a Schedule I controlled substance in the state of Florida making it illegal to buy, sell, or possess in Florida. Its listing in Schedule I reads as follows: \n\nThis reveals a certain level of incompetence or sloppyness in whomever wrote the statute since \"Salvia divinorum\" is a plant, not a chemical, and therefore cannot have isomers, esters, ethers, salts, nor salts of isomers, esters, or ethers. However, this is addressed on the next line of the statue with the listing of salvia A.\n\nThe Florida statute lists \"Salvia divnorum\" and salvia A as separate substances, thusly making possession of the plant illegal as well as the salts of isomers, esters, or ethers derived from the plant.\n\nIn March 2008 it was reported that Florida state Representative Mary Brandenburg had proposed a bill to make possession of salvia a felony punishable by up to five years in prison.\n\n\"As soon as we make one drug illegal, kids start looking around for other drugs they can buy legally. This is just the next one,\" said Brandenburg.\n\nFlorida state Senator Evelyn Lynn, who was on the committee to study the salvia bill, said salvia should be criminalized. \"I'd rather be at the front edge of preventing the dangers of the drug than waiting until we are the 40th or more,\" she said.\n\nThe House bill number was HB 1363. It proposed including \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A on Florida's Schedule I list of controlled substances. There were also similar Senate bills SB340, and SB1612 proposed concurrently.\n\nOn April 16, 2008, HB1363 passed the House, and advanced to the Senate floor. On April 23, 2008, the bill unanimously passed the Senate by a vote of 39-0. Having passed both House and Senate, the bill was signed into law on May 29, 2008 by Governor Charlie Crist becoming effective July 1, 2008. \n\nRepresentative Brandenburg has received political campaign contributions from beer, wine and liquor-related industries. Senator Lynn has received political campaign contributions from industries including tobacco companies and tobacco product sales, and beer, wine and liquor-related industries.\n\nOn March 8, 2007, Senator John Bulloch, (R-Ochlocknee), filed Senate Bill SB295 which proposes that \"It shall be unlawful to knowingly produce, manufacture, distribute, possess, or possess with intent to produce, manufacture, or distribute the active chemical ingredient in the hallucinogenic plant Salvia divinorum A\" (sic). \n\nViolation of the proposed law would be considered a misdemeanor under Georgia's code. It would not apply to \"the possession, planting, cultivation, growing, or harvesting of such hallucinogenic plant strictly for aesthetic, landscaping, or decorative purposes\".\n\nSen. John Bulloch reportedly saw a report on an Atlanta television news station about the increased use of \"Salvia divinorum\". He was quoted as saying - \"I thought, 'Why hasn't somebody already jumped on this?'\" before filing Senate Bill 295. \"I hurriedly got legislative counsel to draft the bill…Everything that I read about it is it's considered to be a hallucinogenic drug…A lot of the reading that I've found on it says that it gives a quicker and more intense high than LSD.\" . Senator Don Thomas (R-Dalton), a physician and member of the reviewing Senate Health and Human Services Committee, was reported as saying—\"I just know about the publicity of the dangers of it, and the use of it, so my first impression is to ban anything of that nature\". \n\nAs of July 1, 2010, Georgia code lists salvinorin A as a dangerous drug, prohibiting its sale, distribution, and possession. The only exemption to this is the 'possession, planting, cultivation, growing, or harvesting of \"Salvia divinorum\" or \"Salvia divinorum A\" strictly for aesthetic, landscaping, or decorative purposes' O.C.G.A. § 16-13-72\n\nOn January 19, 2006, Senator John J. Millner (R) introduced Senate Bill 2589 to the Illinois State Legislature. This bill sought to add \"Salvia divinorum\" to that state's list of Schedule I controlled substances. The Bill failed to pass as the session ended sine die (adjourned with no date set for resumption).\n\nOn January 26, 2007, Representative Dennis M. Reboletti (R) filed House Bill HB457 which proposed Schedule I classification for \"Salvia divinorum\" (including \"the seeds thereof, any extract from any part of that plant, and every compound, [...] derivative, mixture, or preparation of that plant\"). The bill does not mention the active chemical constituent salvinorin A. Daniel Siebert criticised this wording as being \"absurdly broad in scope, for it implies that any substance extracted from \"Salvia divinorum\" (water, chlorophyll, whatever) would be treated as a Schedule I controlled substance under the proposed law.\"\n\nIn March 2007, news of the bill's passage on Reboletti's website alleged that salvia is a \"powerful psychoactive plant which in appearance looks like marijuana but has the psychoactive properties of LSD\". Reboletti said, \"It's important that we in the legislature are proactive in protecting our children from highly addictive substances\" and \"For a drug to be classified as a Schedule 1 substance signifies that it's a highly dangerous and potentially lethal drug for its user. Hopefully, the passage of my bill will bring attention to \"Magic Mint\" and help law enforcement combat the future rise of this drug.\" \"Salvia divinorum\" article references and other sources indicate, however, that salvia does not look like marijuana. Its psychoactive properties are not like those of LSD, and that \"Salvia divinorum\" is not generally understood to be either addictive or toxic.\n\nBy May 22, 2007, HB0457 had received support from all 173 members in both bodies of the democratic majority Illinois General Assembly. It was sent to the Governor of Illinois, Rod Blagojevich (D), on June 20, 2007 and was signed into law on Friday August 17, 2007. The law came into effect on January 1, 2008.\n\nIn a statement given prior to the bill coming into effect Reboletti said, \"I've seen the argument to legalize marijuana. It is a gateway drug, like salvia could be a gateway drug,\" and \"We decided to move forward rather than waiting for someone to be killed because of it.\"\n\nA critical editorial was published by the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" on the eve of Reboletti's law coming into effect. It commented - \"Legislators must have been on something to zero in on this obscure organic substance ... The last time we checked, Illinois was not besieged by a salvia epidemic. We don't see the urgency in criminalizing a substance with no clear track record of causing people to act in a dangerous manner or hurt other people ... considering how overcrowded our prisons are with dangerous criminals, trolling around for more nonviolent drug offenders to punish is counterintuitive... Regulating use of, rather than banning salvia, would have been a more sober approach.\"\n\nAlcohol-related financial contributions featured highly for Representative Dennis Reboletti's 2006 political campaign. According to the National Institute on Money in State Politics, 'Beer, Wine & Liquor' was his seventh highest industry contributor.\n\nA few days after a local TV news report aired in November 2007, a follow-up story reported that Representative Dennis Avery (D-Evansville) was interested in a possible ban. Representative Avery was quoted as saying - \"I had never heard of this product until a very short time ago when 14 News brought it to my attention.\" The news report went on to say - \"Several local drug prevention organizations and area law enforcement tell 14 News there hasn't been any indication salvia is a problem substance.\"\n\nAn online poll was conducted in connection with Indianapolis news channel's stories also in November 2007, asking the question - \"Do you believe Indiana should regulate \"Salvia divinorum\"?\" A majority of 76% of the polls respondents were opposed to outright prohibition (59% preferring age regulations, and 17% no restrictions at all).\n\nOn January 13, 2008, it was reported that State Representative Suzanne Crouch (R-Evansville) was proposing a bill that wants Indiana law rewritten to declare \"Salvia divinorum\" a Schedule 1 controlled substance. Crouch's proposal would make the manufacture, sale or possession with intent to deliver salvia a Class B felony, carrying a potential penalty of 6 to 20 years.\n\nThe offense would be a Class A felony if the delivery or sale of \"Salvia divinorum\" were to someone under age 18, on a school bus or within 1,000 feet of school property, a park, family housing complex or youth program center. A conviction for a Class A felony would carry a 50- to a life sentence. The bill has not yet been assigned to a committee.\n\nCrouch was reported as saying - \"The fact it has that kind of (hallucinogenic) reaction and is not illegal certainly caused me to look at it seriously\".\n\nAn editorial published by the Evansville Courier & Press on January 15, 2008 asked - \" Are the proposed penalties of decades in prison appropriate? It's easy to demand Draconian sentences, until it's your teenager who gets caught\". It suggested that there were other, more pressing, concerns for Indiana's lawmakers during the 2008 legislative session, saying - \"Crouch's bill instead should be referred to a study committee for hearings this summer, with an eye to considering it in the 2009 session. It's not as if we have an epidemic of \"Salvia divinorum\" abuse that requires immediate action.\"\n\nAlcohol-related financial contributions featured highly for Representative Suzanne Crouch's 2006 political campaign. According to the National Institute on Money in State Politics, 'Beer, Wine & Liquor' was her eighth highest industry contributor.\n\nOn January 18, 2007, the Governor’s Office of Drug Control Policy proposed House/Senate Study Bills HSB133 and SSB1051. These bills propose classification of \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A as Schedule I controlled substances. As of July 29, 2011, Governor Terry Branstad signed these bills into law, making \"Salvia divinorum\" a Schedule One Controlled Substance in Iowa. \n\nOn January 18, 2008, Senate bill 481 was proposed to amend current Kansas state law to add \"Salvia divinorum\" and datura stramonium (jimson weed) to schedule I of the Kansas Controlled Substances Act. The fiscal note from the Division of Budget stated the passage of this bill would have no fiscal effect.\n\nThe proponents of the bill included Senator Peggy Mast; Tom Stanton, Kansas County and District Attorneys Association; and Teresa Walters, Emporians for Drug Awareness. There was no testimony in opposition to the bill.\n\nOn her website Peggy Mast said - \"A bill that would outlaw salvia has entered the Senate as well as one in the House. It looks positive that these bills will get the support needed in both chambers. This drug has become widely abused and it is time to pass legislation to make it illegal.\"\n\nThe bill was passed by the Senate (yeas 40 nays 0) on February 20, 2008 and moved on for review by the House Judiciary committee. The House voted in favor of the bill on March 27, 2008 (ayes: 122, nays: 1). On April 14, 2008, it was sent to Governor Kathleen Sebelius (D) for executive approval.\n\nOn April 24, 2008, the bill was signed into law by the Governor, making Kansas the 9th state to criminalize the possession, use, or sale of \"Salvia divinorum\".\n\nIn February 2009, Representative Will Coursey (D-Benton) was reported as having introduced a bill that would make possession of \"Salvia divinorum\" a Class B misdemeanor, punishable by up to 90 days. Cultivation of \"Salvia divinorum\" would be a Class A misdemeanor, which could bring up to 12 months in jail. Trafficking in iuoy \"Salvia divinorum\" would also be a misdemeanor, and the penalty would depend upon the amount. House Bill 228 was referred to the House Judiciary Committee for consideration.\n\nRepresentative Coursey said he heard about the drug in talking with youth group leaders in Western Kentucky who encouraged him to file the legislation. House Speaker Greg Stumbo (D-Prestonsburg) co-sponsored the bill. Stumbo said, \"During my time in the legislature, and especially as attorney general, I have heard far too many stories of Kentuckians getting trapped in the drug culture, and it appears that salvia could be the next gateway drug for many. We need to stop that before it gets a foothold in the state.\"\n\nJennifer Brislin, a spokeswoman for the state Justice Cabinet, said the bill was something that they had been pushing. \"We see it as a growing problem. We are just trying to stay ahead of the curve.\"\n\nRepresentative Coursey said that Kentucky State Police officials and Van Ingram, acting director of Kentucky's Office of Drug Control Policy, are among the bill's proponents. \"The last thing we need in Kentucky is another substance for people in Kentucky to be abusing,\" said Ingram.\n\nOfficer Chris Sutton, a spokesman for the Lexington police department, said they hadn't had any recorded complaints about salvia. But Sutton said the department supports the legislation because it aims to make the public safer, \"If it has detrimental effects on its users, it concerns us.\" he said.\n\nEffective June 8, 2011 KRS 218A.1451 states: \"Possession of salvia is a Class B misdemeanor\" and that \"A person is guilty of possession of salvia when he or she knowingly and unlawfully possesses salvia for human consumption.\"\n\nKentucky also has enacted a tax stamp law for controlled substances. Tax evasion is a felony.\n\nEffective from August 8, 2005 (signed into law on June 28, 2005), Louisiana Act No 159 made 40 plants, including \"Salvia divinorum\", illegal if sold for human consumption. It is still legal to own the plants. Simple possession of an illegal form of Salvia is a felony for which the maximum sentence is 5 years; production (even for personal use) or distribution (even for free) has a maximum sentence of 10 years and a minimum sentence of 2 years. In addition, the defendant can even be sentenced to hard labor for either offense.\n\nIn December 2006, Rep. Chris Barstow proposed legislation for the State of Maine. According to reports Barstow believes salvia \"is a drug very similar to LSD\" and \"We need to have it banned as soon as possible\" . Barstow's initial bill proposed that \"Salvia divinorum\" be broadly classed the same as marijuana (classified as 'Schedule Z' in Maine). Under the proposed bill possession of \"Salvia divinorum\" is a 'Class E' crime , and trafficking or furnishing of \"Salvia divinorum\" is a 'Class D' crime.\n\nBarstow's action followed an approach from Kimberly A. Johnson, director of the Maine Office of Substance Abuse , after she had seen \"Salvia divinorum\" on sale in her home town of Gorham. Johnson indicated that she would not be satisfied with only the enforcement of age restrictions to control salvia, asserting—\"This drug is just as dangerous to someone who's 30 as someone who's 17\". \n\nLawmakers on the Criminal Justice Committee amended the proposed bill on February 6, 2007. The amendment proposed regulating salvia only for minors, so that selling or providing \"Salvia divinorum\" to anyone under the age of 18 would be a criminal offense. Possession by a minor would be a civil violation, punishable by a fine and community service. Adults 18 and over could continue to legally purchase and use the herb.\n\nAccording to news reports , several committee members at the work session questioned the need to criminalize a drug that had not been causing a problem and apparently has little or no addictive potential.\n\nThe amended measure was signed by the governor on May 15, 2007. It was \"Passed to be enacted\" (last Senate action) on September 5, 2007.\n\nOn January 28, 2008, Councilwoman Belinda Conaway (D), together with several fellow Democrat cosponsors, introduced Bill No. 08-0032 and Bill No. 08-0006R to the Baltimore City Council. These bills sought to prohibit the sale, possession, and use of salvia. Conaway said she was not aware of a problem in Baltimore City, but she wanted \"to be on the front end.\" Other Maryland officials said they did not see salvia use as a widespread problem. The bills did not make it out of committee.\n\nOn January 14, 2009, Senator Richard Colburn (R) introduced Senate Bill 9 to the Maryland State Legislature. If enacted, this bill would make \"Salvia divinorum\" a Schedule I controlled substance in that state. The text only mentions \"Salvia divinorum\" it does not mention salvinorin A. The bill was co-sponsored by delegates Adelaide C. Eckardt (R-37B-Dorchester), and Jeannie Haddaway (R-37B-Talbot).\n\nHaddaway said members of the Worcester County Commissioners brought the issue to her and Colburn that salvia was available without restriction at several Boardwalk retailers. \"It's considered by most scientists to be more potent than LSD, and it's readily accessible to anyone in the state of Maryland who wants to purchase it. All around us, states are restricting it or banning it, and in Maryland you can still get it. Young people who may not have ever tried drugs before can legally purchase this and not realize how potent this is or what the effect is going to be.\"\n\nColburn noted the hundreds of thousands of videos posted on the Web site YouTube showing people under salvia's influence, saying, \"It's nothing short of disturbing. Watch it for yourselves. See how they lose all coordination, experience emotional swings, dizziness and nausea. Now, imagine that person is your child or grandchild.\"\n\nSalvia was blamed for the suicide of Delaware teen Brett Chidester in January 2006, shortly after which Delaware became the first state to outlaw salvia under what was dubbed \"Brett's Law\". His mother, Kathleen Chidester, has advocated for similar laws across the United States. \"My hope and goal is to have salvia regulated across the U.S. It's my son's legacy and I will not end my fight until this happens.\" she said in written testimony in support of Colburn's bill. With over 4,000 teen suicides in the US per year, there is no way conclusively to determine if \"Salvia divinorum\" caused this suicide.\n\nColburn was reported as saying it's possible the bill could be amended to regulate salvia, rather than ban it outright, depending out how the bill escapes from committees.\n\nThe bill has opposition from the Drug Policy Alliance in Maryland, which called it an \"unwarranted extension of the U.S. war on drugs.\" Naomi Long, director of the group's Washington metro area branch, urged legislators to reject the proposal, calling salvia's medical value \"very promising\" for treating health issues from depression and eating disorders to HIV infections. She also warned that if criminalized, salvia could be driven underground. Long said \"the most effective approach\" would combine age controls with restrictions on who could sell it, and where it gets placed in a store. She said lawmakers should model salvia regulations after tobacco laws, which, along with education campaigns, she said led to a dramatic drop in cigarette use among preteens since 1999. \"We didn't have to criminalize tobacco or create long prison sentences for cigarettes to achieve these amazing results,\" she said. \"The decrease was due to quality, comprehensive education at all grade levels about the health consequences of smoking and strict laws about sales to minors. This approach is working for tobacco.\"\n\nOn May 16, 2007, Representatives Viriato deMacedo (R) and Daniel Webster (R) introduced House Bill 4434 to the Massachusetts State Legislature. If enacted, this legislation would have made \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A Class C controlled substances in that state. However, the bill status indicates that on June 15, the House Committee recommended it ought not to pass (under Joint Rule 10), and a closing entry (January 2009) suggests no further action. On January 12, 2009, Representatives Viriato deMacedo (R) and Daniel Webster (R) reintroduced bills to make Salvia divinorum and salvinorina A Class C controlled substances. These bills are House Bill 1336, House Bill 1789, and House Bill 2037.\n\nA town law, enacted by the town's Board of Selectman in April 2008, prohibits the sale of \"Salvia divinorum\" in the Town of West Bridgewater, Massachusetts.\n\nBoston Municipal Code 16-54 states, in part, that \"No person shall sell, offer for sale or possess \"Salvia divinorum\" or salvinorin A within the City of Boston.\" This ordinance was adopted in 2009.\n\nIn January 2009, Boston City Councilor Rob Consalvo called for Boston to outlaw \"Salvia divinorum\". \"I’m scared by this,\" Consalvo said. \"I can see this being the new meth if we don’t get our arms around it.\" Consalvo, was reportedly outraged that the State Legislature has failed to pass a bill making \"Salvia divinorum\" illegal in 2008, so filed his own legislation in the City Council that would make selling or possessing salvia in Boston a crime punishable with a $300 fine.\n\nThe report went on to quote Sharon Levy, medical director of adolescent substance abuse at Children’s Hospital, \"There’s no reason for kids to use this product. It’s a dangerous substance for kids to experiment with.\" The credibility of such statements are suspect though, considering that developmental studies on \"Salvia divinorum\" use have not been conducted. Also, salvinorin A produces dysphoria as well as hallucinations, thus making it less likely for users to chronically use it. As far as safety is concerned, it is not possible to lethally overdose on salvinorin A using the common methods of ingestion (smoked/intrabuccal/sublingual/oral). However, the actions of people under the influence of salvinorin A could lead to serious harm (running, falling, drowning, crashing a vehicle, etc.), which is why traditional use suggests having other people present during its use to restrain the user if necessary. In regards to safety in terms of addiction, unlike more traditional hallucinogens like LSD and mescaline, salvinorin A affects kappa Opioid receptors and is noted for its reverse tolerance. As such, using \"Salvia divinorum\" decreases tolerance to salvinorin A and makes dysphoria more likely with continual use (this effect can turn people away from its use). Thus, like most hallucinogens, salvinorin A has low abuse potential.\n\nElaine Driscoll, a Boston Police Department spokeswoman, said the Hub \"has not experienced widespread usage of this substance, however, it is always a good idea to get in front of an issue before it becomes a problem.\"\n\nOn April 16, 2010, Representative Rick Jones submitted house bill HB6038, which proposes Schedule I classification of a number of substances including \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A in the state of Michigan. The bill was passed by the House on June 23, 2010 (Yeas: 105 Nays: 1) and after minor changes, approved by the Senate (YEAS 36 NAYS 0 EXCUSED 1 NOT VOTING 1) on September 22, 2010. The bill was signed into law by Governor Granholm September 30, 2010 and took effect October 1, 2010.\n\nOn February 28, 2008, Representative Joe Atkins introduced House bill HF2949 which proposes that \"Salvia divinorum\" be added to schedule IV of the controlled substance schedules in Minnesota. Atkins was reportedly concerned that \"It's becoming a drug of choice for college kids on campus, because it's legal and readily available.\"\n\nMatt Snyders, a journalist for the Minneapolis newspaper City Pages, tried \"Salvia divinorum\" for himself as part of his journalistic investigations. On April 9, 2008 he told of calling Representative Atkins and inviting him to do the same in order to research the issue more thoroughly. Snyders argued that Atkins would \"be able to brandish his position with more credibility were he to experience the \"drug\" firsthand.\" Representative Atkins reply was \"Frankly, it's not something that I have a considerable amount of time to do. Even if I wanted to.\" Snyders then asked \"What if only I smoked it? Would you at least want to observe the effects?\"\n\n\"Not particularly,\" Atkins said. Snyders report concluded:\n\nA companion bill (Senate Bill 2668) was also introduced by Senator Steve Murphy (D) in 2008. Both bills died with the dissolution of the 85th legislative session.\n\nIn February 2009, another bill (HF 484) was put up for consideration in the Minnesota House that would make \"Salvia divinorum\" a Schedule I controlled substance in Minnesota, making sales and possession of the plant a crime. Rep. Morrie Lanning (R-Moorhead) is given as the primary author of the bill, with co-authors Rep. Joe Atkins (D-Inver Grove Heights), Rep. Steve Smith (R-Mound), Rep. Paul Marquart (R-Dilworth) and Rep. Tony Cornish (R-Good Thunder). A Senate companion bill (SF 569) was authored by Sen. Bill Ingebrigtsen (R-Alexandria), with co-authors Sen. Julie Rosen (R-Fairmont), Sen. Joe Gimse (R-Willmar), and Sen. David Hann (R-Eden Prairie). The proposed bill did not pass a committee vote and thus died before making it to the floor.\n\nThe following year, February 2010, another bill (HF2975) was introduced that would make sale and possession a gross misdemeanor, once again authored by Lanning, with co-authors Atkins, Cornish, Rep. Steve Smith (R-Mound), Rep. Denny McNamara (R-Hastings), and later by Karla Bigham (D-Cottage Grove). A companion bill (SF2773) authored by Ingebrigtsen and Rosen in the Senate additionally would make salvinorin A sale and possession illegal. In response to the opposition, Ingebrigtsen said, \"We still have to go to battle every day. We don't want a state of euphoria walking around us.\"\n\nBoth bills prevailed in committee votes, but the House bill was postponed indefinitely due to wording not being identical (the Senate bill also makes salvinorin A illegal). On April 29, 2010, the Senate bill passed 61-6 and was passed by the House 116-15 on May 13, 2010. The bill was signed by Governor Pawlenty on May 18, 2010, making sale a gross misdemeanor and possession a misdemeanor, effective August 1, 2010.\n\nSenator Hob Bryan (D) proposed adding \"Salvia divinorum\" to Mississippi's Schedule I list of controlled substances in January 2008. The bill sailed through the senate unopposed (Yeas 52, Nays 0), similarly through the House (Yeas 118, Nays 0), and was approved by the governor on April 15, 2008. The law became effective July 1, 2008.\n\nAfter the law had passed, it was reported that Attorney General Jim Hood was sending warnings to Mississippi business owners that it was no longer legal to sell \"Salvia divinorum\". The Madison County Herald told how local law enforcement raided one store and took all of the salvia stock. The business owner claimed he was unaware that it was now against the law to sell salvia. The Attorney General said, \"Many local law enforcement officers are going around and removing salvia from stores within their respective jurisdictions. If the stores have the product, they are given a warning and notified of the recent changes in the law. If they are caught a second time, they will face charges.\"\n\nOn January 5, 2005, Representative Rachel L. Bringer introduced House Bill 165 to the Missouri State legislature. This bill sought to add \"Salvia divinorum\" to that state's list of Schedule I controlled substances. Despite the CCLE sending a letter to Representative Bringer advising of its earlier report to Congress, the following month saw the introduction of House Bill 633, which sought to place \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A in Schedule I and also proposed to add 12 other substances to Missouri's list of controlled substances. This second bill was introduced on February 23, 2005 by Representative Scott A. Lipke (R) and Representative Bringer. On August 28, 2005 the bill was incorporated into section 195.017 of the state's drug regulation statutes. Thus, \"Salvia divinorum\" became a Schedule I substance in the state of Missouri. Possession is a Class C felony under MRS 195.202, which allows a maximum sentence of 7 years.\n\nAttorney General Jon Bruning's office planned to pursue a bill to make \"Salvia divinorum\" illegal during Nebraska's 2008 legislative session.\n\nIn a press release aired by Nebraska TV he was reported as saying - \"Salvia is a powerful hallucinogen that can be purchased legally. This legislation will make it illegal and put it on par with other powerful drugs like peyote, psychedelic mushrooms and LSD,\" [...] \"Several other states have already made salvia illegal. It's time to add Nebraska to the list.\"\n\nSenator Vickie McDonald supported the legislation, saying - \"Videos of teens using this common plant to get high have become an internet sensation,\" [...] \"Nebraska needs to classify \"Salvia divinorum\" and its active ingredient, salvinorin A, as a controlled substance in order to protect our children from a drug being portrayed as harmless when it's not.\"\n\nThe bill proposed addition of \"Salvia divinorum\" to Schedule I of the Nebraska Uniform Controlled Substances Act. Possessing salvia would have been considered a Class IV felony with a penalty of up to five years. Trafficking would have fallen under a Class III felony with up to a 20 year penalty.\n\nIn TV reports Senator Vickie McDonald said - \"Anytime anything's on YouTube it's an issue,\" and \"Legislators, parents, grandparents, we need to be on top of these things,\" [...] \"We need to protect our children and this is one way we can do it.\"\n\nSenator Vickie McDonald's second highest political campaign contributions from industry groups in 2006 came from \"Beer, Wine & Liquor\"-related industries. Her third highest campaign contributors in 2006 came from industries related to \"Tobacco companies & tobacco product sales\".\n\nThe proposed bill was submitted to the Nebraska legislative process as bill number LB840 on January 10, 2008. However, its status was updated in April 2008, showing on the Nebraskan legislature website as \"Indefinitely postponed\".\n\nIn January 2009, it was reported that the Nebraska legislature had voted 44-0 in favour of bill LB 123, proposing \"Salvia divinorum\" as a Schedule I controlled substance. The bill's sponsor Sen. Russ Karpisek (R-Wilbur) said, \"Please, think about our children when you think about this one. It's another gateway drug. I think that it will entice people to use the drug and see what it's like. Scary thought to me.\"\n\nIt was reported in June 2008, that a Nebraskan store owner was being prosecuted for selling \"Salvia divinorum\" at his store. Proposed bills specific to \"Salvia divinorum\" had not passed into law. However, Christian Firoz was cited under a more general Nebraskan statute where it is illegal to sell a product to induce an intoxicated condition.\n\nSusan Kirchmann, Firoz's lawyer, argued that statute is too vague and is unconstitutional - \"The law can't be fairly interpreted. It can be interpreted in so many different ways so that anyone that looks at that statute looks at in one way, another person looks at it at another, the next person looks at it in a different way. Because it can be interpreted in many different ways, it doesn't give a person fair notice of what is acceptable behavior or not in this state\".\n\nFiroz said salvia is a herbal meditation supplement and that everyone has a right to have it.\n\nHowever, in September 2008, it was reported that the state's argument, i.e. that \"Firoz was not selling cleaning chemicals with no idea they were to be used to get high. Instead, he was knowingly selling salvia his purchasers would use to become intoxicated\" had been sided with by Lancaster County Judge Gale Pokorny. In a September 10 order, Pokorny ruled that Firoz must stand trial because he knew what he was selling - \"This judge is of the opinion that Mr. Christian Firoz knew precisely that the Salvia Divinorum he was selling was a 'substance' his purchasers were buying intended for human ingestion for the sole purpose of achieving mind-altering intoxication. While there may be others who potentially might be caught up in some confusing terminology contained in these two statutes, Mr. Christian Firoz does not appear to be one of them.\"\n\nThe report said Firoz was to go on trial for unlawfully selling a legal substance in October 2008. He faced up to three months in jail and a $500 fine. It was, however, reported in February 2009, that the jury had returned a verdict of not guilty in this case.\n\nOn April 6, 2006, Assemblywoman Linda Stender (D) announced that she was proposing legislation to ban \"Salvia divinorum\". On May 15, 2006, Senator Stephen Sweeney (D) proposed Senate Bill 1867 to the State Senate. Assemblywoman Stender introduced an identical bill to the State Assembly on May 22, 2006. It is designated Assembly Bill 3139 and is cosponsored by Assemblyman Jack Conners (D) and Assemblyman Herb Conaway (D). If passed, these bills would classify \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A as Schedule I controlled substances in New Jersey. Neither bill has come up for a vote.\n\nAs of April 18, 2009, there are still two bills seeking to criminalize salvia pending in the New Jersey Legislature. The bills, A-1323 and S-2436, are pending in the Assembly Judiciary Committee and Senate Judiciary Committee, respectively.\n\nOn January 21, 2009, Representative W. Ken Martinez introduced House Bill 144 to the New Mexico state legislature, sponsored by Representative Keith J. Gardner. If enacted, this legislation would have made \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A Schedule I controlled substances in New Mexico. It passed in the House of Representatives and was sent to the Senate, where it died with a status of Action Postponed Indefinitely. On February 3, 2011, Representative Zachary J. Cook introduced House Bill 336 to the state legislature, also seeking to add \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A to the list of Schedule I controlled substances in New Mexico. HB336 passed in the House of Representatives and was sent to the Senate, where it died with a status of Action Postponed Indefinitely. On January 27, 2014, Senator Sue Wilson Beffort introduced Senate Bill 127 to the legislature, again seeking to add \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A to the list of Schedule I controlled substances in New Mexico. The bill was never voted on, and was given a status of Action Postponed Indefinitely. New Mexico's list of controlled substances is found in New Mexico Statutes, chapter 30, article 31, also known as the \"Controlled Substances Act\".\n\nSalvia is currently legal in the state of New York. Bills to outlaw the sale and possession of Salvia have stalled in the state assembly.\nOne such bill failed to pass during the 2005-06 session. In January 2011, State Sen. John J. Flanagan renewed attempts to have the substance criminalized by drawing attention to the alleged use of Salvia by mass murderer Jared Lee Loughner. \n\nState Law 2009-0538 was signed into law by Governor Bev Perdue on August 28, 2009 and came into effect Dec 1st, 2009. The bill makes it unlawful to manufacture, sell, deliver, or possess \"Salvia divinorum\". A violation of the law on the first or second offense is subject to a fine of not less than twenty‑five dollars ($25.00). On a third or subsequent offense the person is guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor. There is an exception that the law does not apply to (1) employees or contractors of any accredited college or school of medicine or pharmacy at a public or private university in North Carolina while performing medical or pharmacological research for such institution or to (2) possession, planting, cultivation, growing, or harvesting of a plant strictly for aesthetic, landscaping, or decorative purposes.\n\nOn January 15, 2007 Senators Dave Oehlke (R) and Randel Christmann (R), together with Representative Brenda Heller (R) proposed Senate Bill 2317 to classify \"Salvia divinorum\" as Schedule I controlled substance.\n\nThe original text of the bill only mentioned \"Salvia divinorum\". The Senate Judiciary Committee amended this on April 5, 2007, changing the bill wording to include salvinorin A and \"any of the active ingredients\" of \"Salvia divinorum\". Daniel Siebert has questioned this vague wording - \"since it could be interpreted to include many commonly occurring pharmacologically active compounds, such as tannins, oleanolic acid, ursolic acid, etc\". The amended bill passed in the Senate on February 7, 2007 (ayes: 47, nays: 0). It passed in the House on March 16, 2007 (ayes: 83, nays: 6). It was signed into law by Governor John Hoeven (R) on April 26, 2007. The new law went into effect on August 1, 2007.\n\nIn April 2008, the case of Bismarck resident Kenneth Rau, a 46-year-old bottling plant worker, was reported as likely being the first person charged for \"Salvia divinorum\" possession in the United States. He was arrested on April 9, 2008 when police searched his home looking for his adult son, who was on probation for drug charges,\n\nBurleigh County States Attorney Cynthia Feland confirmed, \"He is being charged with possession of salvia with intent to deliver\".\nRau suggested that this is a long used drug prosecutors ploy \"to make dealers out of everyone,\" saying of his untreated leaf, \"Nobody wants leaves. Everyone is buying those 10X and 20X and 30X extracts.\" [...] \"I bought eight ounces of leaf on eBay by bidding $32 for it. Now they're charging me with possession with intent.\" [...] \"This is ridiculous since an ounce is clearly the standard saleable unit for [untreated] leaf.\"\n\nRau's interest in salvia was reported as deriving from a broader interest in herbalism, religion and spirituality. - \"I read that salvia facilitates lucid dreaming, so I tried chewing some leaves before bed time, and it was interesting because I would see faces and remember names I had long forgotten.\" He also tried salvia as a cure for depression. \"I have some childhood issues to deal with. They had me on Paxil,\" he said. \"They want you to take their pharmaceuticals, but if you want to take an herbal remedy, they want to throw you in prison. Are they going to save me from myself by throwing me in prison for years?\"\n\nRau said his arrest has motivated him. \"Maybe this is an opportunity for me to join the fight. I've never been a drug user, never been arrested. I started experimenting with this stuff because, I thought it was legal. I didn't want to get into trouble, but now they're treating me just like some meth dealer.\" [...] \"I've emailed the ACLU Drug Law Reform Project, but I haven't heard back from them yet.\"\n\nThe Drug Reform Coordination Network (DRCNet) reported that it had contacted Republican lawmakers, state Sens. Dave Oelke and Randel Christmann and state Rep. Brenda Heller, but none of the three legislators responded to requests for comment.\n\nAssistant State's Attorney Cynthia Feland said that people contacting the Burleigh County State's Attorney's Office urging them not to continue with the prosecution would not have any effect on the case. \"We can't pick and choose what to prosecute\",\" she said.\n\nSenator Randy Christmann admitted that he received, and continues to receive, e-mails from people across the country in favor of keeping \"Salvia divinorum\" legal, but said, \"We felt there was no good reason to allow that to continue lawfully, I just feel it's a destructive thing without enough up-side to justify its use.\"\n\nKenneth Rau questioned why North Dakota needs to prohibit salvia when the federal government has not moved in a similar way, but Christmann reportedly felt that waiting for Washington to act was not in the best interests of North Dakota, saying, \"I'm not one who usually relies too much on what the federal government tells me to do.\"\n\nIn April 2009, it was reported that Rau had been given a deferred sentence in relation to his salvia charge. He had pleaded guilty to the charge of Class C felony possession of salvia, Class A misdemeanor possession of drug paraphernalia and Class B misdemeanor possession of marijuana at the Burleigh County Courthouse. South Central District Judge Tom Schneider imposed a three-year deferred imposition of sentence for the salvia and drug paraphernalia charges and a two-year deferred imposition of sentence for the marijuana charge. Rau will be on supervised probation for three years, and the charges will be removed from his record if he successfully completes his time on supervision.\n\nBurleigh County Assistant State's Attorney Cynthia Feland recommended a deferred sentence on the salvia charge saying that Rau had no recent criminal history, no history of prior drug use and bought the salvia over the Internet before its illegal status in North Dakota was widely known. Judge Schneider ordered Rau to complete a chemical dependency evaluation and any recommended treatment and pay $575 in court fees.\n\nAfter the hearing, Rau said he was not surprised at the type of sentence he got. \"It's kind of what I expected,\" he said. \"I didn't think I would get any better from a jury trial.\"\n\nIn May 2007, Representative Thom Collier (R) proposed House Bill 215 seeking to make \"Salvia divinorum\" a Schedule I drug in the state of Ohio. The bill passed unanimously (95-0) on April 16, 2008. The bill moved to the Senate, and passed unanimously (33-0) on December 16, 2008. The bill now moves to conference committee, and then to the governor.\n\nOn January 6, 2009, Gov. Ted Strickland signed a law which added \"Salvia divinorum\" to the Ohio controlled substances act. The law took effect 90 days from the day of the signature. \"Salvia divinorum\" is now a schedule I substance along with marijuana. \n\nRepresentative's John Nance (R) bill HB 2485 was passed into law in the State of Oklahoma on the May 26, 2006. The wording of the bill—\"Salvia divinorum\" [that] \"has been enhanced, concentrated or chemically or physically altered\"—means that its particular focus was on high-strength extracts, rather than untreated natural strength \"Salvia divinorum\" leaf or plants.\n\nIn 2008, the Oklahoma Bureau of Narcotics (OBNDD) was reported as working with Representative David Derby (R-Owasso), and Senator Jonathan Nichols (R-Norman), to enact House Bill 3148. Governor Brad Henry signed the measure into law June 2, 2008. The law comes into effect November 1, 2008 and classifies \"all\" forms of \"Salvia divinorum\" as Schedule I substances in Oklahoma. After that date, possession of \"Salvia divinorum\" will be a felony offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison, and distribution carries a penalty of 5 years to life in prison. Daniel Siebert described the penalties as draconian. OBNDD Director R. Darrell Weaver was reported as saying, \"There is nothing good that comes from salvia and we will fight tirelessly to control such unwanted substances in Oklahoma.\"\n\nIn 2011 (March), the house considers a ban on salvia http://www.oregonlive.com/politics/index.ssf/2011/03/house_considers_ban_on_salvia.html\n\nDuring the year 2003, two bills were proposed to criminalize \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A. Both bills died upon adjournment of the Oregon Judiciary Committee. House Bill 3485 (introduced March 15, 2003) sought to impose particularly severe penalties. If it had passed, possession would have been punishable by a maximum of 10 years imprisonment, a $200,000 fine, or both. Delivery would have been punishable by a maximum of 20 years imprisonment, a $300,000 fine, or both. Senate Bill 592 only proposed to make delivery a crime. If it had passed, delivery would have been punishable by a maximum of one year's imprisonment, a $5,000 fine, or both.\n\nEfforts to ban \"Salvia divinorum\" were renewed on January 25, 2007. Representative John Lim (R) introduced House Bill 2494 to the Oregon State Legislature. If passed, this legislation would have made \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A Schedule I controlled substances in that state. Possession would be punishable by a maximum of 1 year's imprisonment, a $6250 fine, or both. Manufacture or delivery would be punishable by a maximum of 20 years imprisonment, a $375,000 fine, or both.\n\nRep. John Lim has been quoted as saying—\"From what I understand this drug is at least as dangerous as marijuana or LSD\", and Seth Hatmaker, a spokesman for Lim—\"I think it's only a matter of time before we find people addicted to this stuff\". There is little or no research evidence to support these views. In fact, the scientific consensus is mostly to the contrary. \"Salvia divinorum\" is not generally understood to be addictive.\n\nHouse Bill 2494 died in committee upon adjournment on June 28, 2007.\n\nThe Pennsylvania General Assembly website indicates three salvia-related bills in the 2007-2008 Regular Session. These are Senate bill 710 (P.N. 781), House Bill 1379 (P.N 1951) and House Bill 1379 (P.N. 1726). The different bills were introduced by different bill sponsors, but all proposed adding \"Salvia divinorum\" to Pennsylvania's Schedule I listing of controlled substances. House Bill No. 1547 also listed salvinorin A and divinorin A (salvinorin A is also known as divinorin A). Their last actions were recorded as: Referred to Judiciary, March 29, 2007 for Senate Bill 710; Referred to Judiciary, May 29, 2007 House Bill 1379; and, Referred to Judiciary, June 18, 2007 for House Bill 1547. House Bill 559, referred to judiciary on February 23, 2009, adding Salvia divinorum to the State's Schedule I Controlled Substances list, including its isomers. Salvinorin A is specifically banned by the act if derived from \"Salvia divinorum\". A compound based on the molecular structure of salvinorin A is banned as an isomer. On September 29, 2010 the Pennsylvania House of Representatives passed an amended version of H.B. 176, which would place \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A under Schedule I of the PA Controlled Substance Act. HB 176 was referred to the Pennsylvania Senate Judiciary Committee on October 12, 2010. It was not voted on before the 2009-2010 session ended. There may be efforts to introduce the bill during the next session. Such a ban on \"Salvia divinorum\" might infringe on the religious rights protected by the Pennsylvania Constitution. On June 16, 2011, The Pennsylvania General Assembly passed Senate Bill 1006 which bans several drugs including \"Salvia divinorum\", salvinorin A, and divinorin A, and presented the bill to the governor. who signed it on June 23rd 2011.\n\nOn February 13, 2008, Representative Chip Huggins (R) introduced House Bill 4687 to the South Carolina State Legislature. If enacted, this legislation would make \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A Schedule I controlled substances in that state. On April 10, 2008, the bill passed in the House (ayes: 101, nays: 4). The bill later died with the dissolution of the 2007-2008 legislative session.\n\nIn February 2009, Representatives voted was 67-2 in favour of House Bill 1090 which proposed adding \"Salvia divinorum\" to South Dakota's controlled substances list. \"I'd like to have the drug off the street by the end of February,\" said Rep. Chuck Turbiville (R-Deadwood), the bill's prime sponsor.\n\nRep. Larry Lucas (D-Mission), amended the bill to give judges more discretion in sentencing. The Lucas amendment made possession of less than 2 ounces a misdemeanor, while 2 ounces or more would be a felony. Rep. Lance Russell (R-Hot Springs), said the Lucas amendment would penalize only for possession and wouldn't provide any penalty for distribution. Rep. Rich Engels (D-Hartford) said that flaw can be further addressed when the Senate next considers the bill.\n\nIn March 2009, it was reported that the South Dakota Legislature had given final approval, with the House voting 61-7 to accept changes the Senate had made in the bill. The bill went into effect immediately after it was signed by Gov. Michael Rounds (R) on March 11, as the bill had declared an \"emergency\" regarding salvia's use.\n\nTennessee has passed a law (SB3247/HB2909/TCA 39-17-452) that makes knowingly possessing, producing, manufacturing, distributing, or possessing with intent to produce, manufacture, or distribute the active chemical ingredient in the hallucinogenic plant \"Salvia divinorum\" a Class A misdemeanor. The law was to originally make it a felony, but it was amended. The Senate Bill was sponsored by Senator Tim Burchett (R-Knoxville). It was signed into law on May 19, 2006 and went into effect on July 1, 2006. Tim Burchett stated, \"We have enough problems with illegal drugs as it is without people promoting getting high from some glorified weed that's been brought up from Mexico. The only people I’ve heard from who are opposed to making it illegal are those who are getting stoned on it.\"\n\nOn March 3, 2007, Representative Charles \"Doc\" Anderson (R-Waco) filed House Bill 2347 which proposed the addition of salvinorin A and \"Salvia divinorum\" to Penalty Group 2 of the Texas Controlled Substances Act. On March 28, 2007, the Committee on Criminal Jurisprudence held a video recorded public hearing, 56 minutes 30 seconds into which HB2347 was raised.\n\nAlso in that month, on March 9, 2007, House Bill 3784, was introduced by Representative Tan Parker (R). That bill sought to add salvinorin A and \"Salvia divinorum\" to Penalty Group 3 of the Texas Controlled Substances Act.\n\nConcurrently to Representative Anderson's proposed House bill, and on the same day as Representative Parker's House bill, Senator Craig Estes (R) filed Senate Bill 1796 on March 9, 2007. In contrast to the more restrictive House bills, the Senate bill simply proposed an age restriction—prohibiting the sale of \"Salvia divinorum\" to persons younger than 18 years of age.\n\nBoth House bills failed to make it out of committee. None of the bills were passed into law before the legislative session ended, although SB1796 bill did pass in the Senate by a voice vote of 31-0.\n\nRepresentative Anderson resubmitted his proposal as House Bill 126 on November 10, 2008. He was quoted in the Waco Tribune-Herald as saying, \"This substance is dangerous, incapacitating and serves no medical use whatsoever\", and \"If somebody is getting behind the wheel of a car or other situations where they could injure people, we need to make folks aware of it and start to control the access.\"\n\nAs happened previously in 2007, concurrently to Representative Anderson's re-proposed House bill, Senator Craig Estes filed Senate Bill 257, also on November 10, 2008. And once again, in contrast to the more restrictive House bill, the Senate bill simply proposed an age restriction—prohibiting the sale of \"Salvia divinorum\" to persons younger than 18 years of age. House Bill 470 of the 82nd Legislative Session sought to place \"Salvia divinorum\" on the list of Penalty Group 3 substances. However, the bill failed to make it out of the Senate Committee.\n\nHB 124 was signed into law on June 14, 2013, and effective September 1, 2013, \"Salvia divinorum\" is prohibited as a Penalty Group 3 controlled substance under the Texas Controlled Substances Act.\n\nKSL's Utah news channel broadcast a story on November 27, 2006 warning its viewers about what it called \"this dangerous herb\". The next day, on November 28, 2006, the same channel reported House Representative Paul Ray's \"immediate response\" with proposed legislation to ban \"Salvia divinorum\" in the State of Utah, quoting him as saying, - \"It was upsetting to see we have a drug of that strength that's legal.\" and \"We're basically going to make it illegal to possess or sell. Period.\" Ray's bill (HB190) proposed Schedule I classification.\n\nOn December 12, 2006, KSL editorial director Duane Cardall published a stance against \"Salvia divinorum\" on behalf of the news station as a whole. Cardall's piece closes: \"In KSL's view, the legislature should take action to control the sale of \"Salvia divinorum\" before the illicit use of the accessible hallucinogen spreads. That wasn't done in a timely way with Meth, and now we have a devastating epidemic. Preemptive action now with 'Sally D' would likely spare countless families the horror of losing a loved one to the relentless tentacles of drug abuse.\"\n\nKSL news stories and editorials generally support on-line comments from its registered readers. In this case, feedback was overwhelmingly in disagreement with the editorial line.\n\nThe House Representatives voted unanimously in favor of the bill however. On February 22, 2007, the bill status was 'House/ passed 3rd reading' (Yeas - 68, Nays - 0). But the bill did not get enacted during its legislative session and was instead sent to the House file for defeated bills on February 28, 2007.\n\nThe bill was scheduled to be re-introduced by Representative Paul Ray in a Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice Interim Committee meeting scheduled for September 19, 2007. On October 17, 2007, the Salt Lake Tribune newspaper reported that the proposal had been set aside. Representative Ray said that federal regulators had alerted him that they were close to reaching their own classification for \"Salvia divinorum\". Nonetheless, Ray re-filed the proposed legislation on January 9, 2008 for consideration in the general legislative session. The 2008 bill was filed as Utah H.B. 260. This did not get enacted during its legislative session either.\n\nIn the 2009 Legislative session, Ray proposed the bill for a third time as H.B. 277. In a report supporting the 2009 bill, the local ABC news station described Ray as a former undercover narcotics officer who has been on a one-man crusade for three years at the capitol, trying to raise enough awareness to get his bill passed. \"I’ve been trying for three years to make them aware,\" said Ray, \"Most are waiting to see what the federal government is going to do.\" [...] \"We’ll hold committee hearings during the summer and I’ll bring this issue to the table again\" [...] \"This substance has absolutely no medical use whatsoever. It’s only used to get a cheap high.\" The news report closed by saying that Ray knew that it may take a while to get the attention of policy makers who spent most of the 2009 session rewriting some of the toughest liquor laws in America.\n\nAs of July 1, 2008, \"Salvia divinorum\" is illegal in Virginia.\n\nAfter a first failed attempt to outlaw \"Salvia divinorum\", Delegate John O'Bannon introduced the bill which ultimately became law, HB21. On January 16, 2008, the \"Washington Times\" quoted O'Bannon as saying - \"It is the opiate equivalent of LSD, and it usually causes bad trips\". Other references suggest, however, that, while unpleasant experiences can occur, so called \"bad trips\" are the exception rather than the rule. The equivalence made with LSD is also inaccurate. \"Salvia divinorum\" is a selective κ (kappa) opioid receptor agonist. The term opiate incorrectly implies a derivative of opium. Virginians Against Drug Violence opposed the bill on the grounds that banning the drug would increase interest in using it.\n\nThe bill unanimously passed the house on January 16, 2008 and passed the Virginia State Senate unanimously on February 18, 2008. However, the bill had been slightly altered between the two versions. It originally listed both \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorum A (sic) as additions to Virginia's Schedule I classification. The version passed by the Senate (Yeas - 40, Nays - 0) had corrected the spelling of the active constituent salvinorin A, and did not list the plant \"Salvia divinorum\". It was signed into Law on March 2, 2008, and the law became effective on July 1, 2008.\n\nThe news story suggested that the galvanizing incident in the overall movement to ban salvia was the suicide in January 2006 of 17-year-old, Brett Chidester. Kathy Chidester, Brett’s mother, is convinced it was salvia that made her son depressed, and is actively advocating for salvia criminalization. In a phone interview, Delegate O’Bannon said that Mrs. Chidester wrote him a letter to support the proposed salvia ban in Virginia. The interviewing journalist mentioned the seeming lack of connection between Brett's suicide and \"Salvia divinorum\", to which O'Bannon reportedly snapped - \"That’s not what his mother thinks\".\n\nThe report went on to say that according to Laura Bechtel of Virginia's Blue Ridge Poison Center, there had only been eleven calls about salvia in the past four years, only four of which were people who had actually ingested, the other seven being callers just seeking information. This was out of a total of 148,650 calls received by the center during in that period. \"As far as I know,\" Bechtel said, \"we haven’t had any cases that needed medical attention.\"\n\nOn Wednesday, March 3, 2010, Governor Doyle signed 2009 Wisconsin Act 141 into law, making Wisconsin the 19th state to regulate the sale of \"Salvia divinorum\". The law states that retailers who distribute salvinorin A to minors with the intent that it be consumed can be fined up to $10,000.\n\nOn February 15, 2007, the day after a Fox TV local news story on salvia had aired in Milwaukee, Wisconsin state lawmaker Sheldon Wasserman, also a licensed physician, spoke to Fox news in a follow-up report about his plans to introduce legislation to make salvinorin a Schedule I controlled substance. In the interview, he said - \"it came to me as a complete... something totally new... I was kinda shocked\" and went on to claim - \"there is no medical purpose for this product, it is completely for getting high, getting stoned, and it is something that should not be out there and available\".\n\nOn June 18, 2007, the Wisconsin State Journal newspaper ran a front page headline cover story about salvia, reporting that Representative Wasserman had recently begun seeking sponsors for a bill that would ban the manufacture and sale of \"Salvia divinorum\" for consumption in Wisconsin, with a penalty of up to $10,000. Wasserman was reported as saying - \"This bill is all about protecting our children\", and \"I want to stop the \"Salvia divinorum\" dealers who are pushing young people to experiment with a potentially dangerous substance.\"\n\nOn August 7, 2007, Representatives Sheldon Wasserman (D), David Cullen (D), John Townsend (R), Mike Sheridan (D), Alvin Ott (R), Jake Hines (R), and Terese Berceau (D) introduced Assembly Bill 477 to the Wisconsin State Legislature. If passed, this bill would prohibit manufacturing, distributing, or delivering the active chemical ingredient in the plant \"Salvia divinorum\" (salvinorin A) with the intent that it be consumed by a person.\nBill 477 died in session in early 2008.\n\nAssembly Bill 186, created in April 2009, passed through three votes and as of February 17, 2010, returned to the Assembly successfully. A summary of the bill: AB 186 was signed into law by Wisconsin governor Jim Doyle on March 3, 2010.\n\nOn February 13, 2006, Representative Stephen Watt (R) proposed adding \"Salvia divinorum\" to Wyoming's list of Schedule I controlled substances (House Bill 0049). The bill died without coming up for a vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3211403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3211403", "title": "Lex patriae", "text": "Lex patriae\n\nLex patriae (Latin: \"law of the fatherland\", in modern usage, \"nationality law\"), in conflict of laws, is the system of public law applied to a lawsuit if a choice is to be made between two or more laws that would change the outcome.\n\n"}
{"id": "58159959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58159959", "title": "List of indentured servants", "text": "List of indentured servants\n\nThis is a list of people who were once indentured servants.\n\n"}
{"id": "1145196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1145196", "title": "Matricide", "text": "Matricide\n\nMatricide is the act of killing one's mother.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2305833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2305833", "title": "Oxford University Labour Club", "text": "Oxford University Labour Club\n\nOxford University Labour Club (OULC) was founded in 1919 to promote democratic socialism and is today the home of the Labour Party and of social democracy at Oxford University. OULC is the largest university Labour club in the country and has a particular reputation as an active campaigning force.\n\nThe club caters for any students who are interested in the ideals of the labour movement whether members of the Labour Party or entirely new to politics. Stewart Wood, special adviser to consecutive Labour Party leaders Gordon Brown and Ed Miliband, said that 'OULC is held up as an exemplar of what needs to be done.' During his visit to Oxford in July 2009 the Prime Minister Gordon Brown was reported as having praised OULC's 'brilliant contribution to progressive politics in the University, the city and the country.' The club was instrumental in returning Andrew Smith to Parliament for Oxford East at the 2010 General Election with a 4.1% swing to Labour, the largest in England outside London.\n\nThroughout the year it hosts a range of speaker, social, discussion, and campaigning events, as well as producing a termly magazine called Look Left. Signature events include the annual Barbara Castle Memorial Lecture and John Smith Memorial Dinner.\n\nIn 2016, some officers of the Oxford University Labour Club resigned citing allegations of anti-Semitism in the club. This resulted in the national Labour party officially investigating the club for anti-Semitism. In March 2018, the OULC released a statement calling for ‘greater action to root out antisemitism’ from the national Labour Party.\n\nWhen David Lewis came to Oxford, the Labour Club was a tame organisation adhering to Christian activism, or the not-quite-so-scrappy-socialist theories of people such as R. H. Tawney and his book \"The Acquisitive Society\". David's modified Jewish Labour Bundist interpretation of Marxism, that Cameron Smith labels \"Parliamentary Marxism,\" ignited the renewed interest in the club after the disappointment with Ramsay MacDonald's second Labour government.\n\nThe Oxford newspaper \"The Isis\" noted Lewis' leadership ability at this early stage in his career in their 7 February 1934 issue: \"The energy of these University Socialists is almost unbelievable. If the Socialist movement as a whole is anything like as active as they are, then a socialist victory at the next election is inevitable.\"\n\nIn February 1934, British fascist William Joyce, (Lord Haw Haw), visited Oxford. Lewis and future Ontario Co-operative Commonwealth Federation leader Ted Jolliffe, organised a noisy protest against the fascist, by simply planting Labour Club members in the dance hall that Joyce was speaking in, and causing a commotion, as groups of two and three left making much noise on the creaking wooden floors. The speech was foiled. Afterwards, the Blackshirts contingent had a street battle in Oxford with members of the Labour Club and the townsfolk.\n\nLewis prevented the communists from really making inroads at Oxford during his time there. He increased the Labour Club's membership by three-quarters, from 484 members in December 1932 to over 850 members by the time he left, while the October club never rose above 300 members. Ted Jolliffe stated \"there was a difference between his speeches at the [Oxford] Union and his speeches at the Labour Club. His speeches at the Union had more humour in them; the atmosphere was entirely different. But his speeches at the Labour Club were deadly serious... His influence at the Labour Club, more than anyone else's, I think, explains the failure of the Communists to make headway there.\" In 1935, the Soviet controlled Comintern's Seventh Congress, called for a united left response to fascism, called the popular front. The communist October Club used this call, for a popular front, as a pretext to have a union between themselves and the Labour Club. Under Lewis' leadership, the club was able to easily defeat a motion by the October Club, as only 20 OULC members voted for the union.\n\nWhen Lewis returned to Canada in the summer of 1935, there really wasn't anyone to replace him, to keep the communists at bay as \"The Isis\" noted: \"The Labour may have rejected fusion [with the October Club] but the matter is not yet settled. An interesting thing is the dearth of what are technically known as 'promising people' in the ranks of the Labour Club. For years the Labour Club has been turning out a Geoffrey Wilson, a Frank Hardie, a John Cripps, a David Lewis, each year: but this [coming] year there seems to be no figures as outstanding as these.\"\n\nSince there was not a strong Labour leader to take over from Lewis after he graduated and left in the summer of 1935, the Labour Club amended its constitution to remove impediments to fusion with the communist October Club in December 1935. Shortly thereafter the two clubs joined together forming a \"popular front\". The club's membership peaked before the war at between 1000 and 1200 members depending on whose numbers were used, which was approximately a fifth of all of Oxford's 5023 students. Of the club's total membership, the Communists made up approximately less than 200 members.\n\nThe national Labour Party appointed Janet Royall, to head an inquiry into allegations of anti-Semitism within the Club made in February 2016. The then-current Co-Chair and another officer resigned from the Club, alleging they were disturbed by the discrimination and anti-Semitism they alleged was inherent in the Club.\n\nAfter successfully campaigning for the re-election of Andrew Smith as Member of Parliament for Oxford East, with an increased majority, in the 2015 General Election, and increasing the number of Labour councillors on Oxford City Council in the 2016 local elections, OULC campaigned hard during the European Union referendum. At the Michaelmas term 2015 General Meeting, OULC voted overwhelmingly to endorse UK membership of the European Union and to actively campaign in favour of the UK's continued membership of the European Union in the coming referendum campaign. This involved campaign stalls, door knocking and rallies. OULC did however host Graham Stringer MP who gave the Labour case for 'Brexit', during an address in Wadham college in Trinity term. This was in the same term that OULC hosted Chuka Umunna MP, Anneliese Dodds MEP, Andrew Smith MP and Alan Johnson MP, the leader of the Labour IN campaign, for signature 'remain' campaign events throughout Oxford.\n\nOULC is run by an elected Executive Committee, as established under the OULC Constitution. The Constitution can be changed by a two-thirds majority at any OULC General Meeting, Termly General Meeting (TGM), or Extraordinary General Meeting; at which its members can also pass policy in the form of motions (such as submissions to the Labour Party's Policy Review), hear reports from the executive and elect (at the TGM) the new Executive.\n\nUnder the most recent version of the OULC Constitution (as of Trinity Term 2016), the head of the Executive is the two Co-Chairs. One Co-Chair position must at all times be held by someone who 'self-identifies partly or wholly as a woman or transfeminine'[13], and two other positions on the Executive at every TGM, must be reserved for those who self-identify partly or wholly as a woman or transfeminine. The positions so reserved rotate around the Executive. If no one who self-identifies partly or wholly as a woman or transfeminine stands for such a position, the incoming Co-Chairs must produce a report to be made public, detailing what they will do to enhance the position of those who so self-identify within the Club. This also applies if the only two people standing for Co-Chair are men.\n\nAt the General Meeting in Trinity Term 2016, the Club also re-established its long-forgotten alumni network. Upon receiving permission from Lord Attlee, the grandson of Clement Attlee, the former Labour Prime Minister, the alumni network was named 'The Attlee Association', in the former Prime Minister's honour.\n\nOULC has hosted a range of speakers from the Labour movement, including a number of high-profile politicians. In Trinity term 2009, OULC hosted the then current Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, David Miliband. He commented \"I recently met with the OULC members and was impressed. [They] can help Labour be at the cutting edge.\"\n\nOULC holds regular informal meetings to discuss policy. This provides its members with an opportunity to engage in serious political debate. An October 2008 review of party political events by the \"Cherwell\" commented that OULC is 'an active political party as opposed to a social gathering. Their meetings are informal, and last year they were visited by a number of prominent left wing politicians.'\n\nOULC also runs campaigns. The club plays a role in the efforts to keep Oxford East Labour and contributed significantly to the election effort in July 2009 where Labour gained four seats on the county council, the most successful Labour result in the county. In its report on the election victory, the \"Cherwell\" cited the club's then co-chair, Jacob Turner, as saying that he felt the result was a consequence of \"a very great effort from the local party including Labour Club members. We've been going out, meeting people, and asking them not to vote for us, but just how our councillors can help them. We've built up a relationship with residents which is ultimately expressed in voting.\"\nIn the run up to the 2010 General Election the club regularly turned out 20 campaigners every Sunday. This made a huge contribution to Oxford East's position of having the highest voter contact rate of anywhere in the country (more than Wales, Scotland and the North-East put together). In 2012, the club was instrumental in Labour winning its first Student Ward in the city in over two decades. When possible the club sends members to other towns to campaign, including Reading, Slough, Southampton and even Edinburgh.\n\nOULC holds a number of social events including a fresher's dinner in Michaelmas Term and a barbecue or picnic in Trinity term. OULC also hosts an annual dinner, the John Smith Memorial Dinner, in the fifth week of Hilary term. The dinner commemorates the contribution and life of John Smith, the former Labour party leader, who died suddenly in 1994. Recent speakers at this event have included Neil Kinnock and Margaret Beckett.\n\nOULC is affiliated with Labour Students, and former OULC members have held a number of positions there.\nIn February 2011, OULC disaffliated from Labour Students for a one-year period as a protest over the way the organisation was run. In February 2012, OULC voted by 20 to 4 to rejoin Labour Students citing the progress made by the leadership of the organisation in improving accountability and democracy.\n\nOULC also has links with other socialist organisations, trade unions, and Labour Party groups, including the Oxford District, Reading and Slough Labour Parties.\n\nSince the establishment of the Oxford University Student Union (OUSU) in the early 1970s, OULC has maintained a presence. There have been many Labour presidents, starting with John Grogan in the early 1980s, and OULC candidates have in recent years been successful in the 1998 (Anneliese Dodds), 1999 (Kirsty McNeill), 2004 (Emma Norris), 2005 (Alan Strickland) and 2006 (Martin McCluskey) elections. Whilst the Club no longer runs official candidates, OUSU's executive committee and delegate body has also had a Labour presence.\n\nStephen Twigg was National President of the National Union of Students and an OULC member in the early 1990s.\n\nSix current or former members of OULC currently sit on Oxford City Council, and one is a County Councillor in Oxfordshire. As of the 2016 Oxford City Council Elections, Dan Iley-Wiliamson, OULC Membership and Alumni Officer at the time, was elected as a councillor for the Holywell ward, serving most city centre University colleges.\n\nAt the 2005 General Election, five recent former OULC members stood for election as Labour candidates.\n\nIn parliament former OULC members include John Grogan, Ed Balls (although also a member of the Oxford University Conservative Association whilst at Oxford), Ed and David Miliband, and in the European Parliament, Richard Corbett and Mary Honeyball.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "245923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245923", "title": "Parliamentary copyright", "text": "Parliamentary copyright\n\nParliamentary copyright was first created in the United Kingdom by the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988. Prior to this legislation being passed, what is now covered by Parliamentary copyright was Crown copyright.\n\nParliamentary copyright was created with a lifespan of 50 years, the same as that for published Crown copyright materials. The 1988 Act defines it as covering, \"Where a work is made by or under the direction or control of the House of Commons or the House of Lords...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8246686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8246686", "title": "Police and Justice Act 2006", "text": "Police and Justice Act 2006\n\nThe Police and Justice Act 2006 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. As at August 2007 many of the provisions are not yet in force. The majority of the Act extends only to England and Wales\n\nProvisions of the Act include:\n\nPart 1: Mainly about police forces\n\n\nPart 2: Mainly about justice\n\nPart 3: Mainly about anti-social behaviour\n\nPart 4: Addresses various Inspectorates \n\nPart 5: Miscellaneous Section \n\nThe following orders have been made under this section:\n\n\n\nSection 54(1) limits the extent of Parts 1 to 5 of the Act to England and Wales only, except for those matters listed in the rest of s.54 .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59189515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59189515", "title": "Pretrial services report", "text": "Pretrial services report\n\nA pretrial services report is a document used by a judicial officer, typically a magistrate, in making decisions, e.g., about bail. In 2016, federal officers prepared 88,248 pretrial services reports, 97 percent of which were pre-bail reports. Typically the report must be prepared within a very limited timeframe due to the deadlines for making bail decisions.\n\nTo gather information for the report, the officer interviews the defendant. The report will contain defendant case information, such as residence, family ties, employment history, financial resources, health (including mental health and substance abuse histories), and criminal history. The officer then performs a criminal record check, pursues investigative leads, and verifies information which the defendant has provided, such as address, employment, assets, and citizenship.\n\nOn the basis of this information, the report will assess the defendant's likelihood of appearing for court and the level of danger he poses to the community. The last section of the report recommends for the release or detention of the defendant.\n"}
{"id": "30861023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30861023", "title": "Private attorney general", "text": "Private attorney general\n\nIn the United States, a private attorney general is an informal term for a private attorney who brings a lawsuit considered to be in the public interest, i.e., benefiting the general public and not just the plaintiff, on behalf of a citizen or group of citizens. The attorney may, at the equitable discretion of the court, be entitled to recover attorney's fees if he or she prevails. The rationale behind this principle is to provide extra incentive to private attorneys to pursue suits that may be of benefit to society at large.\n\nMany civil rights statutes rely on private attorneys general for their enforcement. In \"Newman v. Piggie Park Enterprises\", one of the earliest cases construing the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the United States Supreme Court ruled that \"A public accommodations suit is thus private in form only. When a plaintiff brings an action . . . he cannot recover damages. If he obtains an injunction, he does so not for himself alone but also as a 'private attorney general,' vindicating a policy that Congress considered of the highest priority.\" The United States Congress has also passed laws with \"private attorney general\" provisions that provide for the enforcement of laws prohibiting employment discrimination, police brutality, and water pollution. Under the Clean Water Act, for example, \"any citizen\" may bring suit against an individual or a company that is a source of water pollution.\n\nAnother example of the \"private attorney general\" provisions is the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO). RICO allows average citizens (private attorneys general) to sue those organizations that commit mail and wire fraud as part of their criminal enterprise. To date, there are over 60 federal statutes that encourage private enforcement by allowing prevailing plaintiffs to collect attorney's fees.\n\nAttorneys who function as a private attorney general do so without compensation. The statutes permitting a plaintiff to recover attorneys' fees have been held not to apply when the plaintiff is an attorney.\n\nWhile there is such a thing as a private attorney general act, it should be stated that there is no such thing as a private non-attorney citizen being a \"private attorney general\" for all purposes. The term applies only to the exercise of one's ability to pursue certain specific kinds of legal actions which are statutorily authorized. It does not create the ability to call one's self a \"private attorney general\".\n\nThe U.S. Congress codified the private attorney general principle into law with the enactment of Civil Rights Attorney's Fees Award Act of 1976, . The Senate Report on this statute stated that The Senate Committee on the Judiciary wanted to level the playing field so that private citizens, who might have little or no money, could still serve as \"private attorneys general\" and afford to bring actions, even against state or local bodies, to enforce the civil rights laws. The Committee acknowledged that, \"[i]f private citizens are to be able to assert their civil rights, and if those who violate the Nation's fundamental laws are not to proceed with impunity, then citizens must have the opportunity to recover what it costs them to vindicate these rights in court.\" Where a plaintiff wins his or her lawsuit and is considered the \"prevailing party,\" § 1988 acts to shift fees, including expert witness fees [at least in certain types of civil rights actions, under the Civil Rights Act of 1991, even if not in § 1983 actions], and to make those who acted as private attorneys general whole again, thus encouraging the enforcement of the civil rights laws. The Senate reported that it intended fee awards to be \"adequate to attract competent counsel\" to represent client with civil rights grievances. S. Rep. No. 94-1011, p. 6 (1976). The U.S. Supreme Court has interpreted the act to provide for the payment of a \"reasonable attorney's fee\" based on the fair market value of the legal services.\n\n"}
{"id": "24188875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24188875", "title": "ROBIC", "text": "ROBIC\n\nROBIC is an Intellectual Property firm in Montreal, Québec, Canada.\n\nThe firm was founded in 1892 as the patent agency MARION & MARION by the Marion brothers, both of whom were engineers. Raymond A. Robic joined the firm in 1917. The ROBIC name found its way onto the firm’s letterhead in 1932 and under the leadership and vision of the late Raymond A. Robic, author, teacher and inventor.\n\nIn 1970, the law firm of LEGER ROBIC RICHARD was formed to provide specialized legal services primarily in the field of Intellectual Property (IP) and for more than thirty years, ROBIC has diversified its practice to include Business Law and commercial litigation. This fully integrated firm is now known as ROBIC, LLP.\n\nROBIC consists of a group of multi-disciplinary professionals in the field of Intellectual Property, specialising in patents, trademarks, copyright, and industrial designs. This group works with a team of lawyers, who develop and deliver the firm’s Business Law services.\n\nPatents\n\nThe patent and industrial design practice groups conduct patentability searches, as well as drafting, filing and prosecution of patent and industrial design applications worldwide. These practice groups specialize in providing validity and infringement opinions and also contribute to the valuation process related to the transfer, acquisition and financing of technology and technology-driven companies. The firm’s patent agents have expertise in the mechanical, chemical and electrical arts, with specific proficiency in electronics, physics, telecommunications, metallurgy, chemistry, pharmacology, biotechnology, and computer technology.\n\nTrademarks & Copyright\n\nThe trademark and copyright practice groups conduct trademark registrability searches and prosecute applications for the registration of trademarks and copyright worldwide. This practice group represents clients before the Trademarks Opposition Board of the Canadian Trademarks Office, the Copyright Tribunal, other administrative bodies and the Appellate Courts having jurisdiction in these areas.\n\nBusiness Law & Corporate Law\n\nThe Business Law practice group offers services in the fields of contracts, corporate law, technology transfers, licensing, mergers and acquisitions, the structuring of consortiums and joint ventures, research and development collaboration projects, financing transactions, advertising, entertainment law and competition law.\n\nLitigation\n\nMembers of the litigation practice group represent clients before all levels of the Quebec and Federal Courts, as well as before the Supreme Court of Canada and many other specialized administrative tribunals. The firm’s litigators also specialize in litigation relating to Technology Law and Commercial Law.\n\nROBIC’s practitioners author and update two comprehensive IP works: the \"ROBIC - CANADIAN TRADE-MARKS ACT ANNOTATED\" and the ROBIC–CANADIAN COPYRIGHT ACT ANNOTATED.\n\nJacques A. Léger, Q.C., was appointed to the Superior Court of Quebec on September 18, 2006 and on January 23, 2009, he was named to the Court of Appeal of Quebec.\n\nMembers of the firm have held the title of both President of the Intellectual Property Institute of Canada and Chair of the National Intellectual Property Section of the Canadian Bar Association, in addition to being officers of various international associations including AIPPI, ASIPI, LES, FICPI, INTA and IBA.\n\nThe firm’s attorneys have been invited to lecture at Montreal business schools and law faculties as well as at the Bar School of the Province of Quebec, McGill University and before the Judges of the Federal Court of Canada and the Superior Court of Quebec.\n\nROBIC partners Laurent Carrière and François M. Grenier were recognized by the 2011 LEXPERT/American Lawyer Guide to the Leading 500 Lawyers in Canada as two of the best lawyers in Canada, and more particularly in Quebec in the fields of Intellectual Property and Intellectual Property Litigation.\n\nA survey of Canadian lawyers identified partners of the firm such as Laurent Carrière (IP litigation and IP), François M. Grenier (IP litigation and IP), François Painchaud (Technology Transactions), Hugues G. Richard (IP litigation and IP) and Bob H. Sotiriadis (IP litigation and IP) as some of the leading practitioners in Canada according to the Canadian Legal LEXPERT Directory 2011. The recognition as leading practitioners by \"Lexpert\" is based upon a comprehensive and independent survey of the Canadian legal community.\n\nHugues G. Richard, François M. Grenier, Laurent Carrière, Bob H. Sotiriadis, François Painchaud, Barry Gamache, Louis-Pierre Gravelle and Nicolas Sapp were named among the best IP lawyers in Quebec by The Best Lawyers 2012 Edition.\n\nThe International Who's Who of Patent Lawyers 2011 Edition has recognized François M. Grenier among the best lawyers in the field of patents in Canada. Furthermore, Hugues G. Richard and Bob H. Sotiriadis were named among the best lawyers in the field of trademarks in Canada.\n\nThe 2011 edition of the PLC Which Lawyer? Yearbook, an international publication, ranked ROBIC as \"Recommended\" in the Intellectual Property field and 'Recognised' in the Life Sciences field. Furthermore, François M. Grenier and Hugues G. Richard were each listed as some of the top litigation lawyers in IP. \"PLC Which Lawyer?\" is a unique guide for in-house lawyers that identifies the most recommended firms and lawyers in the world within specific fields of practice.\n\nROBIC - LEGER - CANADIAN TRADEMARKS ACT ANNOTATED\n\nLesters Foods Ltd.\" v. \"Lesters Delicatessen and Hot Smoked Meat Inc.\", 2008 QCCS 2010, EYB 2008-133593, J.E. 2008-1261, 2008 CarswellQue 4205, Cour supérieure du Québec, 2008\n\nCerverceria Modelo, S.A. de C.V. v. Marcon, 2008 CarswellNat 3399, Trade Marks Opposition Board, 2008\n\nMaison Cousin (1980) Inc. v. Cousins Submarines Inc., 2006 CarswellNat 115, 2006 CF 2, 51 C.P.R. (4th) 81, 286 F.T.R. 60 (Eng.) (F.C.)\n\n\"Tommy Hilfiger Licensing Inc. \"v. \"Produits de Qualité I.M.D. Inc.\", 2005 CF 10, 2005 FC 10, 37 C.P.R. (4th) 1, 267 F.T.R. 259 (Eng.) (F.C.)\n\n\"Société des loteries du Québec\" c. \"Club Lotto International C.L.I. Inc.\", 2001 CarswellNat 1592, 204 F.T.R. 21, 13 C.P.R. (4th) 315 (F.C.T.D.)\n\nStandard Knitting Ltd. v. Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha, [2000] 8 C.P.R. (4th) 285, 189 F.T.R. 108, Federal Court of Canada—Trial Division, 2000\n\nI.T. Logistics inc. v. Jitlogistic inc., [1999] REJB 1999-11857 (C.S.)\n\nAircraft Technical Publishers v. ATP Aero Training Products Inc., 1998 CarswellNat 2452, [1998] 160 F.T.R. 62, 84 C.P.R. (3d) 480 (F.C.T.D.)\n\nMontres Rolex S.A. v. Balshin, 1992 CarswellNat 155F, (1992) [1993] 1 F.C. 236, 45 C.P.R. (3d) 174, 147 N.R. 297, 58 F.T.R. 240 (note), Federal Court of Appeal\n\nRenaud Cointreau & Cie v. Cordon Bleu International Ltd., 1992 CarswellNat 708, 45 C.P.R. (3d) 374, 58 F.T.R. 191 (F.C.T.D.)\n\nROBIC – LEGER CANADIAN COPYRIGHT ACT ANNOTATED\n\nL.S. Entertainment Group Inc. v. Formosa Video (Canada) Ltd., 2005 FC 1347, 48 C.P.R. (4th) 401, 281 F.T.R. 99 (Eng.) \n\n\"Interbox Promotion Corp.\" c. \"9012-4314 Québec Inc.\", 2003 CF 1254, 34 C.P.R. (4th) 329, 253 F.T.R. 1\n\n\"Cité Amérique Distribution inc.\" c. \"C.E.P.A. Le Baluchon inc.\", [2002] R.J.Q. 1943, REJB 2002-33112, J.E. 2002-1407\n\n\"Galerie d'art du Petit Champlain inc.\" v. \"Théberge\", 2002 CarswellQue 306, Supreme Court of Canada, 2002 \n\n\"Productions Avanti Ciné-Vidéo Inc. \"c. \"Favreau\", 1999 CarswellQue 2742, Cour d'appel du Québec, 1999\n\n\"Magasins Greenberg Ltée\" v. \"Import-Export René Derhy (Canada) Inc.\", 1995 CarswellNat 1866, 95 F.T.R. 49, 61 C.P.R. (3d) 133 (F.C.T.D.)\n\n"}
{"id": "20156431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20156431", "title": "Rivers and Harbors Bill", "text": "Rivers and Harbors Bill\n\nThe Rivers and Harbors Bill was a bill passed by Congress in 1846 to provide $500,000 to improve rivers and harbors. When the Senate passed the Rivers and Harbors Bill 34 to 16 on July 24, 1846, opponents lobbied for a presidential veto. It was vetoed by President James K. Polk on August 3. The bill would have provided for federally funded internal improvements on small harbors, many of them on the Great Lakes. Polk believed that this was unconstitutional because the bill unfairly favored particular areas, including that which had no foreign trade.\n\nPolk believed that these problems were local and not national. Polk feared that passing the Rivers and Harbors Bill would encourage legislators to compete for favors for their home districts, a type of political corruption that would spell doom to the virtue of the republic. In this regard he followed his hero, Andrew Jackson, who authored the Maysville Road veto in 1830 on similar grounds. Henry Clay and his Whig Party, by contrast, supported the bill because they believed the national government had a responsibility to promote trade commerce and economic modernization.\n"}
{"id": "51175003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51175003", "title": "Royal Commission into the Protection and Detention of Children in the Northern Territory", "text": "Royal Commission into the Protection and Detention of Children in the Northern Territory\n\nThe Royal Commission into the Protection and Detention of Children in the Northern Territory is a Royal Commission established in 2016 by the Australian Government pursuant to the \"Royal Commissions Act 1902\" to inquire into and report upon failings in the child protection and youth detention systems of the Government of the Northern Territory. The establishment of the commission followed revelations broadcast on 25 July 2016 by the ABC TV \"Four Corners\" program which showed abuse of juveniles held in the Don Dale Juvenile Detention Centre in Darwin.\n\nLetters Patent for the Royal Commission were issued on 28 July 2016 and reissued on 1 August appointing joint Commissioners The Honourable Margaret White and Mick Gooda.\n\nThe final report for the Royal Commission was tabled to the Australian Parliament on 17 November 2017.\n\nOn 25 July 2016, the ABC \"Four Corners\" investigative program aired an episode titled \"Australia's Shame\". The program featured youth held in the Don Dale Juvenile Detention Centre in Darwin. The following morning, Prime Minister Turnbull announced that there would be a Royal Commission into the Northern Territory juvenile detention system.\n\nTurnbull stated on ABC Radio that the Royal Commission would be set up \"as soon as possible\" and the relevant parties would make moves \"very quickly\". He further stated that \"Like all Australians, we are shocked by the report, by that evidence on \"Four Corners\" last night. We have moved swiftly to get to the bottom of it. We need to get all the facts out as quickly as we can. We need to expose the cultural problems, the administrative problems that allowed this type of mistreatment to occur.\" When questioned about whether or not the Northern Territory government itself should be investigated, Turnbull pressed that \"the important thing is to get to the bottom of what happened at Don Dale.\"\n\nOn 28 July 2016, Turnbull named The Honourable Brian Ross Martin , a former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, as commissioner to conduct the inquiry and announced the terms of reference.\n\nMartin resigned as commissioner four days after being appointed due to community and political pressure over his appointment, saying that \"rightly or wrongly, in this role I would not have the full confidence of sections of the Indigenous community which has a vital interest in this inquiry.\" The Attorney-General George Brandis appointed the replacement joint Commissioners The Honourable Margaret White and Mick Gooda that same day. \n\nBrandis stated that the royal commission would examine the period since the Northern Territory \"Youth Justice Act\" came into operation in 2006 and focus on why two reports into the youth justice system — including one relating to the Don Dale Centre — were not sufficiently followed up. The two reports are the \"Review of the Northern Territory Youth Detention System Report\" of January 2015 and the \"Report of the Office of the Children's Commissioner of the Northern Territory about services at the Don Dale Youth Detention Centre\" of August 2015.\n\nOn 28 July 2016, Governor-General General Sir Peter Cosgrove issued Commonwealth Letters Patent appointing Martin as commissioner and the commission's terms of reference. The commissioner was directed to examine \"...failings in the child protection and youth detention systems of the Government of the Northern Territory; the effectiveness of any oversight mechanisms and safeguards to ensure the treatment of detainees was appropriate; cultural and management issues that may exist within the Northern Territory youth detention system; whether the treatment of detainees breached laws or the detainees’ human rights; and whether more should have been done by the Government of the Northern Territory to take appropriate measures to prevent the reoccurrence of inappropriate treatment.\"\n\nDespite the Northern Territory having its own government, the Territory is officially administered under the Commonwealth of Australia, and the Commonwealth Letters Patent covered its jurisdiction.\n\nThe executive of the Aboriginal Medical Services Alliance Northern Territory said that Turnbull undermined the royal commission by permitting Chief Minister Adam Giles, who had ultimate responsibility for the events at the Don Dale Youth Detention Centre, to have a say in drawing up the terms of reference. Peak Aboriginal organisations, including the Northern and Central Land Councils, AMSANT, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Social Justice Commissioner and legal groups, were also critical of Martin's appointment. The federal Opposition said they were not consulted in the drawing up of the terms of reference, and called for the appointment of two Indigenous co-commissioners.\n\nAs a result of the resignation of Martin on 1 August 2016, Governor-General General Sir Peter Cosgrove issued Commonwealth Letters Patent appointing White and Gooda as joint Commissioners and the Commission's terms of reference. The Commissioners have been directed to examine \"...failings in the child protection and youth detention systems of the Government of the Northern Territory; the effectiveness of any oversight mechanisms and safeguards to ensure the treatment of detainees was appropriate; cultural and management issues that may exist within the Northern Territory youth detention system; whether the treatment of detainees breached laws or the detainees’ human rights; and whether more should have been done by the Government of the Northern Territory to take appropriate measures to prevent the reoccurrence of inappropriate treatment.\n\nThe powers of Royal Commissions in Australia are set out in the enabling legislation, the . Royal Commissions, appointed pursuant to the \"Royal Commissions Act\" or otherwise, have powers to issue a summons to a person to appear before the Commission at a hearing to give evidence or to produce documents specified in the summons; require witnesses to take an oath or give an affirmation; and require a person to deliver documents to the Commission at a specified place and time. A person served with a summons or a notice to produce documents must comply with that requirement, or face prosecution for an offence. The penalty for conviction upon such an offence is a fine of or six months imprisonment. A Royal Commission may authorise the Australian Federal Police to execute search warrants.\n"}
{"id": "28961245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28961245", "title": "SBB Cargo International", "text": "SBB Cargo International\n\nSBB Cargo International is a rail transport business founded as a joint venture between SBB Cargo and Hupac The headquarters will be at Olten. handling international rail freight in Europe. SBB Cargo International is due to commence operations at the start of 2011.\n\nFollowing the failure of SBB's plans to strengthen the profitability and financial independence of its Cargo division by selling stakes to other international railway operators, SBB Cargo changed to an alternative solution. A new railway undertaking called SBB Cargo International was founded in partnership with intermodal transport operator Hupac. The new company focuses on block and intermodal trains on the European North-South corridor between Germany and Italy. The shareholders in the new company are SBB Cargo (75%) and Hupac (25%), with further partners possible in the future. The aim is to achieve cost leadership in the intermodal segment by optimising resources on selected routes and halving structural costs. The new company’s customers will primarily comprise intermodal operators, who will account for about 80% of the planned total sales of CHF 300 million.\n\nSBB Cargo International will, initially, lease 109 locomotives from SBB Cargo; 59 will be multi-system locomotives for cross-border use.\n\n"}
{"id": "19288928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19288928", "title": "Security Control of Air Traffic and Air Navigation Aids", "text": "Security Control of Air Traffic and Air Navigation Aids\n\nThe Plan for the Security Control of Air Traffic and Air Navigation Aids (SCATANA) is an emergency preparedness plan of the United States which prescribes the joint action to be taken by appropriate elements of the Department of Defense, Federal Aviation Administration, and the Federal Communications Commission in the interest of national security in order to effectively control air traffic and air navigation aids under emergency conditions. Known versions of the plan are dated June 1971 and August 1975. The plan implements parts of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, the Communications Act of 1934, and Executive Order 11490 of October 28, 1969 (amended by Executive Order 11921 on June 11, 1976).\n\nA similar plan by the same name existed in Canada for many years before its replacement with that country's Emergency Security Control of Air Traffic (ESCAT) Plan on October 9, 2002.\n\nThe U.S. plan has been implemented once (other than tests) since its inception, and even then, it was a modified version. On September 11, 2001, the codeword was broadcast ordering that all U.S. air traffic be grounded, after the September 11 attacks. Even in that instance, the emergency plan was only partially implemented as the Defense Department left command and control of the air traffic system with the FAA and intentionally allowed all radio navigational aids to remain in operation to aid in the process of controlling and landing the thousands of planes which were aloft in domestic airspace.\n\nThe 9/11 Commission Report never refers to SCATANA directly, but it does discuss this unprecedented order and commends the air traffic controllers who carried it out.\n\nWhile several people have been credited with issuing the SCATANA order for a national ground stop, the 9/11 Commission credits FAA National Operations Manager Ben Sliney with effectively issuing the directive. At 9:42 am on the morning of September 11, 2001, after the Air Traffic Control System Command Center learned from news reports that a plane (American Airlines Flight 77) had crashed into the Pentagon, Sliney \"ordered all FAA facilities to instruct all aircraft to land at the nearest airport\" (of sufficient runway length).\n\nThe Canadian federal government enacted Operation Yellow Ribbon to handle the diversion of most US-bound international civilian flights to Canada. In total, 255 aircraft were diverted to 17 different airports across Canada. Some international civilian airline flights bound for the United States were instead diverted to other countries (including Mexico) or were ordered to turn around and return to their point of origin.\n\nMilitary exercises known as Operation Skyshield had temporarily closed U.S. airspace to civilian traffic in the early 1960s.\n"}
{"id": "40849373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849373", "title": "Senekal v Meyer", "text": "Senekal v Meyer\n\nIn Senekal v Meyer, an important case in South African succession law, the testator had a valid will. On it he had written the word “gekanselleir” (cancelled) on both of the pages of the copy in his possession. The Master, however, accepted the testator’s attorney’s copy as the deceased’s valid will and testament.\n\nThe deceased’s current wife sought an order from the court declaring that the deceased had died intestate, as he had intended to revoke this earlier will. This was opposed by the deceased’s first wife, who was the sole heir in terms of the will. The court held that the deceased had expressed a clear intention to revoke his will, and so the deceased was found to have died intestate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14678604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14678604", "title": "Sindell v. Abbott Laboratories", "text": "Sindell v. Abbott Laboratories\n\nSindell v. Abbott Laboratories, (1980), was a landmark products liability decision of the Supreme Court of California which pioneered the doctrine of market share liability. \n\nThe plaintiff in \"Sindell\" was a young woman who developed cancer as a result of her mother's use of the drug diethylstilbestrol (DES) during pregnancy. A large number of companies had manufactured DES around the time the plaintiff's mother used the drug. Since the drug was a fungible product and many years had passed, it was impossible for the plaintiff to identify the manufacturer(s) of the particular DES pills her mother had actually consumed.\n\nIn a 4-3 majority decision by Associate Justice Stanley Mosk, the court decided to impose a new kind of liability, known as market share liability. The doctrine evolved from a line of negligence and strict products liability opinions (most of which had been decided by the Supreme Court of California) that were being adopted as the majority rule in many U.S. states. The essential components of the theory are as follows:\n\nIf these requirements are met, a rebuttable presumption arises in favor of the plaintiff; if she can prove actual damages, then a court may order each defendant to pay a percentage of such damages equal to its share of the market for the product at the time the product was used. A manufacturer may rebut the presumption and reduce its market share damages to zero by showing that its product could not have possibly injured the plaintiff (for example, by demonstrating that it did not manufacture the product during the time period relevant for that particular plaintiff).\n\nMosk later explained in an oral history interview that the court got the idea for market share liability from the \"Fordham Law Review\" comment cited extensively in the \"Sindell\" opinion.\n\nAssociate Justice Frank K. Richardson wrote a dissent in which he accused the majority of judicial activism and argued that the judiciary should defer to the legislature, whose role it was to craft an appropriate solution to the problems presented by the unique nature of DES.\n\nCourts after \"Sindell\" have refused to apply the market share doctrine to products other than drugs such as DES. The argument centers on the fact that a product must be fungible to hold all producers equally liable for any harm. If the product was not fungible, then different production methods or gross negligence in manufacturing might imply that some manufacturers were actually more culpable than others, yet they would only be required to pay up to their share of the market.\nThe time period over which the harm occurred is also an issue: in \"Skipworth v. Lead Industries Association\" 690 A.2d 169 (Pa. 1997), a 1997 Pennsylvania case, the plaintiffs complained of the use of lead-based paint in their house and brought suit against Lead Industries Association. The court refused to apply the market share theory because the house had stood for over a century and many manufacturers of lead-based paint had since gone out of business, while others named in the suit had not existed at the time the house was painted. The court also noted that lead-based paint was not a fungible product and therefore, some of the manufacturers may not have been responsible for Skipworth's injuries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28791", "title": "Sovereignty", "text": "Sovereignty\n\nSovereignty is the full right and power of a governing body over itself, without any interference from outside sources or bodies. In political theory, sovereignty is a substantive term designating supreme authority over some polity. It is a basic principle underlying the dominant Westphalian model of state foundation.\n\nThe concepts of sovereignty have been discussed throughout history, and are still actively debated. Its definition, concept, and application has changed throughout, especially during the Age of Enlightenment. The current notion of state sovereignty contains four aspects consisting of territory, population, authority and recognition. According to Stephen D. Krasner, the term could also be understood in four different ways: \n\nOften, these four aspects all appear together, but this is not necessarily the case – they are not affected by one another, and there are historical examples of states that were non-sovereign in one aspect while at the same time being sovereign in another of these aspects. According to Immanuel Wallerstein, another fundamental feature of sovereignty is that it is a claim that must be recognised by others if it is to have any meaning: \n\nThe Roman jurist Ulpian observed that:\n\nUlpian was expressing the idea that the Emperor exercised a rather absolute form of sovereignty, that originated in the people, although he did not use the term expressly.\n\nUlpian's statements were known in medieval Europe, but sovereignty was an important concept in medieval times. Medieval monarchs were \"not\" sovereign, at least not strongly so, because they were constrained by, and shared power with, their feudal aristocracy. Furthermore, both were strongly constrained by custom.\n\nSovereignty existed during the Medieval period as the \"de jure\" rights of nobility and royalty, and in the \"de facto\" capability of individuals to make their own choices in life.\n\nAround c. 1380–1400, the issue of feminine sovereignty was addressed in Geoffrey Chaucer's Middle English collection of \"Canterbury Tales\", specifically in \"The Wife of Bath's Tale.\"\n\nA later English Arthurian romance, \"The Wedding of Sir Gawain and Dame Ragnell\" (c. 1450), uses many of the same elements of the Wife of Bath's tale, yet changes the setting to the court of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table. The story revolves around the knight Sir Gawain granting to Dame Ragnell, his new bride, what is purported to be wanted most by women: sovereignty.\n\nSovereignty reemerged as a concept in the late 16th century, a time when civil wars had created a craving for stronger central authority, when monarchs had begun to gather power onto their own hands at the expense of the nobility, and the modern nation state was emerging. Jean Bodin, partly in reaction to the chaos of the French wars of religion, presented theories of sovereignty calling for strong central authority in the form of absolute monarchy. In his 1576 treatise \"Les Six Livres de la République\" (\"Six Books of the Republic\") Bodin argued that it is inherent in the nature of the state that sovereignty must be:\n\n\nBodin rejected the notion of transference of sovereignty from people to the ruler (also known as \"the sovereign\"); natural law and divine law confer upon the sovereign the right to rule. And the sovereign is not above divine law or natural law. He is above (\"ie.\" not bound by) only positive law, that is, laws made by humans. He emphasized that a sovereign is bound to observe certain basic rules derived from the divine law, the law of nature or reason, and the law that is common to all nations (jus gentium), as well as the fundamental laws of the state that determine who is the sovereign, who succeeds to sovereignty, and what limits the sovereign power. Thus, Bodin’s sovereign was restricted by the constitutional law of the state and by the higher law that was considered as binding upon every human being. The fact that the sovereign must obey divine and natural law imposes ethical constraints on him. Bodin also held that the \"lois royales\", the fundamental laws of the French monarchy which regulated matters such as succession, are natural laws and are binding on the French sovereign.\n\nDespite his commitment to absolutism, Bodin held some moderate opinions on how government should in practice be carried out. He held that although the sovereign is not obliged to, it is advisable for him, as a practical expedient, to convene a senate from whom he can obtain advice, to delegate some power to magistrates for the practical administration of the law, and to use the Estates as a means of communicating with the people. Bodin believed that “the most divine, most excellent, and the state form most proper to royalty is governed partly aristocratically and partly democratically”.\n\nWith his doctrine that sovereignty is conferred by divine law, Bodin predefined the scope of the divine right of kings.\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, the idea of sovereignty gained both legal and moral force as the main Western description of the meaning and power of a State. In particular, the \"Social contract\" as a mechanism for establishing sovereignty was suggested and, by 1800, widely accepted, especially in the new United States and France, though also in Great Britain to a lesser extent.\n\nThomas Hobbes, in \"Leviathan\" (1651) arrived a conception of sovereignty similar to Bodin's, which had just achieved legal status in the \"Peace of Westphalia\", but for different reasons. He created the first modern version of the social contract (or contractarian) theory, arguing that to overcome the \"nasty, brutish and short\" quality of life without the cooperation of other human beings, people must join in a \"commonwealth\" and submit to a \"Soveraigne Power\" that is able to compel them to act in the common good. This expediency argument attracted many of the early proponents of sovereignty. Hobbes strengthened the definition of sovereignty beyond either Westphalian or Bodin's, by saying that it must be:\n\n\nHobbes' hypothesis—that the ruler's sovereignty is contracted to him by the people in return for his maintaining their physical safety—led him to conclude that if and when the ruler fails, the people recover their ability to protect themselves by forming a new contract.\n\nHobbes's theories decisively shape the concept of sovereignty through the medium of social contract theories. Jean-Jacques Rousseau's (1712–1778) definition of popular sovereignty (with early antecedents in Francisco Suárez's theory of the origin of power), provides that the people are the legitimate sovereign. Rousseau considered sovereignty to be inalienable; he condemned the distinction between the origin and the exercise of sovereignty, a distinction upon which constitutional monarchy or representative democracy is founded. John Locke, and Montesquieu are also key figures in the unfolding of the concept of sovereignty; their views differ with Rousseau and with Hobbes on this issue of alienability.\n\nThe second book of Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"Du Contrat Social, ou Principes du droit politique\" (1762) deals with sovereignty and its rights. Sovereignty, or the general will, is inalienable, for the will cannot be transmitted; it is indivisible, since it is essentially general; it is infallible and always right, determined and limited in its power by the common interest; it acts through laws. Law is the decision of the general will in regard to some object of common interest, but though the general will is always right and desires only good, its judgment is not always enlightened, and consequently does not always see wherein the common good lies; hence the necessity of the legislator. But the legislator has, of himself, no authority; he is only a guide who drafts and proposes laws, but the people alone (that is, the sovereign or general will) has authority to make and impose them.\n\nRousseau, in the Social Contract\"\nargued, \"the growth of the State giving the trustees of public authority more and means to abuse their power, the more the Government has to have force to contain the people, the more force the Sovereign should have in turn in order to contain the Government,\" with the understanding that the Sovereign is \"a collective being of wonder\" (Book II, Chapter I) resulting from \"the general will\" of the people, and that \"what any man, whoever he may be, orders on his own, is not a law\" (Book II, Chapter VI) – and furthermore predicated on the assumption that the people have an unbiased means by which to ascertain the general will. Thus the legal maxim, \"there is no law without a sovereign.\"\n\nAn important factor of sovereignty is its degree of absoluteness. A sovereign power has absolute sovereignty when it is not restricted by a constitution, by the laws of its predecessors, or by custom, and no areas of law or policy are reserved as being outside its control. International law; policies and actions of neighboring states; cooperation and respect of the populace; means of enforcement; and resources to enact policy are factors that might limit sovereignty. For example, parents are not guaranteed the right to decide some matters in the upbringing of their children independent of societal regulation, and municipalities do not have unlimited jurisdiction in local matters, thus neither parents nor municipalities have absolute sovereignty. Theorists have diverged over the desirability of increased absoluteness.\n\nA key element of sovereignty in a legalistic sense is that of exclusivity of jurisdiction. Specifically, the degree to which decisions made by a sovereign entity might be contradicted by another authority. Along these lines, the German sociologist Max Weber proposed that sovereignty is a community's monopoly on the legitimate use of force; and thus any group claiming the same right must either be brought under the yoke of the sovereign, proven illegitimate, or otherwise contested and defeated for sovereignty to be genuine. International law, competing branches of government, and authorities reserved for subordinate entities (such as federated states or republics) represent legal infringements on exclusivity. Social institutions such as religious bodies, corporations, and competing political parties might represent \"de facto\" infringements on exclusivity.\n\n\"De jure\", or legal, sovereignty concerns the expressed and institutionally recognised right to exercise control over a territory. \"De facto\", or actual, sovereignty is concerned with whether control in fact exists. Cooperation and respect of the populace; control of resources in, or moved into, an area; means of enforcement and security; and ability to carry out various functions of state all represent measures of \"de facto\" sovereignty. When control is practiced predominantly by military or police force it is considered \"coercive sovereignty\".\n\nState sovereignty is sometimes viewed synonymously with independence, however, sovereignty can be transferred as a legal right whereas independence cannot. A state can achieve \"de facto\" independence long after acquiring sovereignty, such as in the case of Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam. Additionally, independence can also be suspended when an entire region becomes subject to an occupation such as when Iraq had been overrun by the forces to take part in the Iraq War of 2003, Iraq had not been annexed by any country, so its sovereignty during this period was not contested by any state including those present on the territory. Alternatively, independence can be lost completely when sovereignty itself becomes the subject of dispute. The pre-World War II administrations of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia maintained an exile existence (and considerable international recognition) whilst their territories were annexed by the Soviet Union and governed locally by their pro-Soviet functionaries. When in 1991 Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia re-enacted independence, it was done so on the basis of continuity directly from the pre-Soviet republics. Another complicated sovereignty scenario can arise when regime itself is the subject of dispute. In the case of Poland, the People's Republic of Poland which governed Poland from 1945 to 1989 is now seen to have been an illegal entity by the modern Polish administration. The post-1989 Polish state claims direct continuity from the Second Polish Republic which ended in 1939. For other reasons however, Poland maintains its communist-era outline as opposed to its pre-World War II shape which included areas now in Belarus, Czech Republic, Lithuania, Slovakia and Ukraine but did not include some of its western regions that were then in Germany.\n\nAt the opposite end of the scale, there is no dispute regarding the self-governance of certain self-proclaimed states such as Republic of Abkhazia, Republic of South Ossetia or the Republic of Kosovo (see List of states with limited recognition) since their governments neither answer to a bigger state, nor is their governance subjected to supervision. The sovereignty (i.e. legal right to govern) however, is disputed in all three cases as the first two entities are claimed by Georgia and the third by Serbia.\n\nInternal sovereignty is the relationship between a sovereign power and the political community. A central concern is legitimacy: by what right does a government exercise authority? Claims of legitimacy might refer to the divine right of kings or to a social contract (i.e. popular sovereignty).\n\nWith Sovereignty meaning holding supreme, independent authority over a region or state, Internal Sovereignty refers to the internal affairs of the state and the location of supreme power within it. A state that has internal sovereignty is one with a government that has been elected by the people and has the popular legitimacy. Internal sovereignty examines the internal affairs of a state and how it operates. It is important to have strong internal sovereignty in relation to keeping order and peace. When you have weak internal sovereignty, organisations such as rebel groups will undermine the authority and disrupt the peace. The presence of a strong authority allows you to keep agreement and enforce sanctions for the violation of laws. The ability for leadership to prevent these violations is a key variable in determining internal sovereignty. The lack of internal sovereignty can cause war in one of two ways: first, undermining the value of agreement by allowing costly violations; and second, requiring such large subsidies for implementation that they render war cheaper than peace. Leadership needs to be able to promise members, especially those like armies, police forces, or paramilitaries will abide by agreements. The presence of strong internal sovereignty allows a state to deter opposition groups in exchange for bargaining. It has been said that a more decentralized authority would be more efficient in keeping peace because the deal must please not only the leadership but also the opposition group. While the operations and affairs within a state are relative to the level of sovereignty within that state, there is still an argument between who should hold the authority in a sovereign state.\n\nThis argument between who should hold the authority within a sovereign state is called the traditional doctrine of public sovereignty. This discussion is between an internal sovereign or an authority of public sovereignty. An internal sovereign is a political body that possesses ultimate, final and independent authority; one whose decisions are binding upon all citizens, groups and institutions in society. Early thinkers believe sovereignty should be vested in the hands of a single person, a monarch. They believed the overriding merit of vesting sovereignty in a single individual was that sovereignty would therefore be indivisible; it would be expressed in a single voice that could claim final authority. An example of an internal sovereign or monarch is Louis XIV of France during the seventeenth century; Louis XIV claimed that he was the state. Jean-Jacques Rousseau rejected monarchical rule in favor of the other type of authority within a sovereign state, public sovereignty. Public Sovereignty is the belief that ultimate authority is vested in the people themselves, expressed in the idea of the general will. This means that the power is elected and supported by its members, the authority has a central goal of the good of the people in mind. The idea of public sovereignty has often been the basis for modern democratic theory.\n\nWithin the modern governmental system, internal sovereignty is usually found in states that have public sovereignty and rarely found within a state controlled by an internal sovereign. A form of government that is a little different from both is the UK parliament system. From 1790 to 1859 it was argued that sovereignty in the UK was vested neither in the Crown nor in the people but in the \"Monarch in Parliament\". This is the origin of the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty and is usually seen as the fundamental principle of the British constitution. With these principles of parliamentary sovereignty majority control can gain access to unlimited constitutional authority, creating what has been called \"elective dictatorship\" or \"modern autocracy\". Public sovereignty in modern governments is a lot more common with examples like the USA, Canada, Australia and India where government is divided into different levels.\n\nExternal sovereignty concerns the relationship between a sovereign power and other states. For example, the United Kingdom uses the following criterion when deciding under what conditions other states recognise a political entity as having sovereignty over some territory;\nExternal sovereignty is connected with questions of international law – such as: when, if ever, is intervention by one country into another's territory permissible?\n\nFollowing the Thirty Years' War, a European religious conflict that embroiled much of the continent, the Peace of Westphalia in 1648 established the notion of territorial sovereignty as a norm of noninterference in the affairs of other nations, so-called Westphalian sovereignty, even though the actual treaty itself reaffirmed the multiple levels of sovereignty of the Holy Roman Empire. This resulted as a natural extension of the older principle of \"cuius regio, eius religio\" (Whose realm, his religion), leaving the Roman Catholic Church with little ability to interfere with the internal affairs of many European states. It is a myth, however, that the Treaties of Westphalia created a new European order of equal sovereign states.\n\nIn international law, sovereignty means that a government possesses full control over affairs within a territorial or geographical area or limit. Determining whether a specific entity is sovereign is not an exact science, but often a matter of diplomatic dispute. There is usually an expectation that both \"de jure\" and \"de facto\" sovereignty rest in the same organisation at the place and time of concern. Foreign governments use varied criteria and political considerations when deciding whether or not to recognise the sovereignty of a state over a territory. Membership in the United Nations requires that \"[t]he admission of any such state to membership in the United Nations will be effected by a decision of the General Assembly upon the recommendation of the Security Council.\"\n\nSovereignty may be recognized even when the sovereign body possesses no territory or its territory is under partial or total occupation by another power. The Holy See was in this position between the annexation in 1870 of the Papal States by Italy and the signing of the Lateran Treaties in 1929, a 59-year period during which it was recognised as sovereign by many (mostly Roman Catholic) states despite possessing no territory – a situation resolved when the Lateran Treaties granted the Holy See sovereignty over the Vatican City. Another case, \"sui generis\", is the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, the third sovereign entity inside Italian territory (after San Marino and the Vatican City State) and the second inside the Italian capital (since in 1869 the Palazzo di Malta and the Villa Malta receive extraterritorial rights, in this way becoming the only \"sovereign\" territorial possessions of the modern Order), which is the last existing heir to one of several once militarily significant, crusader states of sovereign military orders. In 1607 its Grand masters were also made Reichsfürst (princes of the Holy Roman Empire) by the Holy Roman Emperor, granting them seats in the Reichstag, at the time the closest permanent equivalent to a UN-type general assembly; confirmed 1620). These sovereign rights were never deposed, only the territories were lost. 100 modern states still maintain full diplomatic relations with the order (now \"de facto\" \"the most prestigious service club\"), and the UN awarded it observer status.\n\nThe governments-in-exile of many European states (for instance, Norway, Netherlands or Czechoslovakia) during the Second World War were regarded as sovereign despite their territories being under foreign occupation; their governance resumed as soon as the occupation had ended. The government of Kuwait was in a similar situation \"vis-à-vis\" the Iraqi occupation of its country during 1990–1991. The government of Republic of China was recognized as sovereign over China from 1911 to 1971 despite that its mainland China territory became occupied by Communist Chinese forces since 1949. In 1971 it lost UN recognition to Chinese Communist-led People's Republic of China and its sovereign and political status as a state became disputed and it lost its ability to use \"China\" as its name and therefore became commonly known as Taiwan.\n\nThe International Committee of the Red Cross is commonly mistaken to be sovereign. It has been granted various degrees of special privileges and legal immunities in many countries, that in cases like Switzerland are considerable, The Committee is a private organisation governed by Swiss law.\n\nJust as the office of head of state can be vested jointly in several persons within a state, the sovereign jurisdiction over a single political territory can be shared jointly by two or more consenting powers, notably in the form of a condominium.\n\nLikewise the member states of international organizations may voluntarily bind themselves by treaty to a supranational organization, such as a continental union. In the case of the European Union members states this is called \"pooled sovereignty\".\n\nAnother example of shared and pooled sovereignty is the Acts of Union 1707 which created the unitary state now known as the United Kingdom. It was a full economic union, meaning the Scottish and English systems of currency, taxation and laws regulating trade were aligned. Nonetheless, Scotland and England never fully surrendered or pooled all of their governance sovereignty; they retained many of their previous national institutional features and characteristics, particularly relating to their legal, religious and educational systems. In 2012, the Scottish Government, created in 1998 through devolution in the United Kingdom, negotiated terms with the Government of the United Kingdom for the Scottish independence referendum, 2014 which resulted in the people of Scotland deciding to continue the pooling of its sovereignty with the rest of the United Kingdom.\n\nA community of people who claim the right of self-determination based on a common ethnicity, history and culture might seek to establish sovereignty over a region, thus creating a nation-state. Such nations are sometimes recognised as autonomous areas rather than as fully sovereign, independent states.\n\nIn a federal system of government, \"sovereignty\" also refers to powers which a constituent state or republic possesses independently of the national government. In a confederation constituent entities retain the right to withdraw from the national body, but in a federation member states or republics do not hold that right.\n\nDifferent interpretations of state sovereignty in the United States of America, as it related to the expansion of slavery and fugitive slave laws, led to the outbreak of the American Civil War. Depending on the particular issue, sometimes both northern and southern states justified their political positions by appealing to state sovereignty. Fearing that slavery would be threatened by results of the 1860 presidential election, eleven slave states declared their independence from the federal Union and formed a new confederation. The United States government rejected the secessions as rebellion, declaring that secession from the Union by an individual state was unconstitutional, as the states were part of an indissolvable federation. \n\nA number of modes of acquisition of sovereignty are presently or have historically been recognised by international law as lawful methods by which a state may acquire sovereignty over territory. The classification of these modes originally derived from Roman property law and from the 15th and 16th century with the development of international law. The modes are:\n\nThere exist vastly differing views on the moral basis of sovereignty. A fundamental polarity is between theories that assert that sovereignty is vested directly in the sovereigns by divine or natural right and theories that assert it originates from the people. In the latter case there is a further division into those that assert that the people transfer their sovereignty to the sovereign (Hobbes), and those that assert that the people retain their sovereignty (Rousseau).\n\nDuring the brief period of absolute monarchies in Europe, the divine right of kings was an important competing justification for the exercise of sovereignty. The Mandate of Heaven had some similar implications in China.\n\nA republic is a form of government in which the people, or some significant portion of them, retain sovereignty over the government and where offices of state are not granted through heritage. A common modern definition of a republic is a government having a head of state who is not a monarch.\n\nDemocracy is based on the concept of \"popular sovereignty\". In a direct democracy the public plays an active role in shaping and deciding policy. Representative democracy permits a transfer of the exercise of sovereignty from the people to a legislative body or an executive (or to some combination of legislature, executive and Judiciary). Many representative democracies provide limited direct democracy through referendum, initiative, and recall.\n\nParliamentary sovereignty refers to a representative democracy where the parliament is ultimately sovereign and not the executive power nor the judiciary.\n\n\nAccording to Matteo Laruffa \"sovereignty resides in every public action and policy as the exercise of executive powers by institutions open to the participation of citizens to the decision-making processes\"\n\nAnother topic is whether the law is held to be sovereign, that is, whether it is above political or other interference. Sovereign law constitutes a true state of law, meaning the letter of the law (if constitutionally correct) is applicable and enforceable, even when against the political will of the nation, as long as not formally changed following the constitutional procedure. Strictly speaking, any deviation from this principle constitutes a revolution or a coup d'état, regardless of the intentions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54041", "title": "Talcott Parsons", "text": "Talcott Parsons\n\nTalcott Parsons (December 13, 1902 – May 8, 1979) was an American sociologist of the classical tradition, best known for his social action theory and structural functionalism. Parsons is considered one of the most influential figures in sociology in the 20th century. After earning a PhD in economics, he served on the faculty at Harvard University from 1927 to 1929. In 1930, he was among the first professors in its new sociology department.\n\nBased on empirical data, Parsons' social action theory was the first broad, systematic, and generalizable theory of social systems developed in the United States. Some of Parsons' largest contributions to sociology in the English-speaking world were his translations of Max Weber's work and his analyses of works by Weber, Émile Durkheim, and Vilfredo Pareto. Their work heavily influenced Parsons' view and was the foundation for his social action theory. Parsons viewed voluntaristic action through the lens of the cultural values and social structures that constrain choices and ultimately determine all social actions, as opposed to actions that are determined based on internal psychological processes.\n\nAlthough Parsons is generally considered a structural functionalist, towards the end of his career, in 1975, he published an article that stated that \"functional\" and \"structural functionalist\" were inappropriate ways to describe the character of his theory.\n\nFrom the 1970s, a new generation of sociologists criticized Parsons' theories as socially conservative and his writings as unnecessarily complex. Sociology courses have placed less emphasis on his theories than at the peak of his popularity (from the 1940s to the 1970s). However, there has been a recent resurgence of interest in his ideas.\n\nParsons was a strong advocate for the professionalization of sociology and its expansion in American academia. He was elected president of the American Sociological Association in 1949 and served as its secretary from 1960 to 1965.\n\nHe was born on December 13, 1902 in Colorado Springs. He was the son of Edward Smith Parsons (1863–1943) and Mary Augusta Ingersoll (1863–1949). His father had attended Yale Divinity School, was ordained as a Congregationalist minister, and served first as a minister for a pioneer community in Greeley, Colorado. At the time of Parsons' birth, his father was a professor in English and vice-president at Colorado College. During his Congregational ministry in Greeley, Edward had become sympathetic to the Social Gospel movement but tended to view it from a higher theological position and was hostile to the ideology of socialism. Also, both he and Talcott would be familiar with the theology of Jonathan Edwards. The father would later become the president of Marietta College in Ohio.\n\nParsons' family is one of the oldest families in American history. His ancestors were some of the first to arrive from England in the first half of the 17th century. The family's heritage had two separate and independently-developed Parsons lines, both to the early days of American history deeper into British history. On his father's side, the family could be traced back to the Parsons of York, Maine.\n\nOn his mother's side, the Ingersoll line was connected with Edwards and from Edwards on would be a new, independent Parsons line because Edwards' eldest daughter, Sarah, married Elihu Parsons on June 11, 1750.\n\nAs an undergraduate, Parsons studied biology, sociology and philosophy at Amherst College and received his B.A. in 1924. Amherst College had become the Parsons' family college by tradition; his father and his uncle Frank had attended it, as had his elder brother, Charles Edward. Initially, Parsons was attracted to a career in medicine, as he was inspired by his elder brother so he studied a great deal of biology and spent a summer working at the Oceanographic Institution at Woods Hole, Massachusetts.\n\nParsons' biology professors at Amherst were Otto C. Glaser and Henry Plough. Gently mocked as \"Little Talcott, the gilded cherub,\" Parsons became one of the student leaders at Amherst. Parsons also took courses with Walton Hamilton and the philosopher Clarence Edwin Ayres, both known as \"institutional economists.\" They exposed him to literature by authors such as Thorstein Veblen, John Dewey, and William Graham Sumner. Parsons also took a course with George Brown in the philosophy of Immanuel Kant and a course in modern German philosophy with Otto Manthey-Zorn, who was a great interpreter of Kant. Parsons showed from early on, a great interest in the topic of philosophy, which most likely was an echo of his father's great interest in theology in which tradition he had been profoundly socialized, a position unlike with his professors'.\n\nTwo term papers that Parsons wrote as a student for Clarence E. Ayres's class in Philosophy III at Amherst have survived. They are referred to as the Amherst Papers and have been of strong interest to Parsons scholars. The first was written on December 19, 1922, \"The Theory of Human Behavior in its Individual and Social Aspects.\" The second was written on March 27, 1923, \"A Behavioristic Conception of the Nature of Morals.\" The papers reveal Parsons' early interest in social evolution. The Amherst Papers also reveal that Parsons did not agree with his professors since he wrote in his Amherst papers that technological development and moral progress are two structurally-independent empirical processes.\n\nAfter Amherst, he studied at the London School of Economics for a year, where he was exposed to the work of R. H. Tawney, Bronisław Malinowski, and Leonard Trelawny Hobhouse. During his days at LSE, he made friends with E.E. Evans-Pritchard, Meyer Fortes, and Raymond Firth, who all participated in the Malinowski seminar. Also, he made a close personal friendship with Arthur and Eveline M. Burns.\n\nAt LSE he met a young American girl in the students' common room called Helen Bancroft Walker whom he married on April 30, 1927. The couple had three children: Anne, Charles, and Susan and eventually four grandchildren. Walker's father was born in Canada but had moved to the Boston area and later become an American citizen.\n\nIn June, Parsons went on to the University of Heidelberg, where he received his Ph.D. in sociology and economics in 1927. At Heidelberg, he worked with Alfred Weber, Max Weber's brother; Edgar Salin, his dissertation adviser; Emil Lederer; and Karl Mannheim. He was examined on Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\" by the philosopher Karl Jaspers. At Heidelberg, Parsons was also examined by Willy Andreas on the French Revolution. Parsons wrote his Dr. Phil. thesis on \"The Concept of Capitalism in the Recent German Literature\", with his main focus on the work of Werner Sombart and Weber. It was clear from his discussion that he rejected Sombart's quasi-idealistic views and supported Weber's attempt to strike a balance between historicism, idealism and Neo-Kantism.\n\nThe most crucial encounter for Parsons at Heidelberg was his encounter with the work of Max Weber about whom he had never heard before. Weber became tremendously important for Parsons because his upbringing with a liberal but strongly-religious father had made the question of the role of culture and religion in the basic processes of world history a persistent puzzle in his mind. Weber was the first scholar who truly provided Parsons with a compelling theoretical \"answer\" to the question so Parsons became totally absorbed in the reading of Weber.\n\nParsons decided to translate Weber's work into English and approached Marianne Weber, Weber's widow. Parsons would eventually translate several of Weber's works to English. His time in Heidelberg had him invited by Marianne Weber to \"sociological teas,\" which were study group meetings that she held in the library room of her and Max's old apartment. One scholar that Parsons met at Heidelberg who shared his enthusiasm for Weber was Alexander von Schelting. Parsons later wrote a review article on von Schelting's book on Weber. Generally, Parsons read extensively in religious literature, especially works focusing on the sociology of religion. One scholar who became especially important for Parsons was Ernst D. Troeltsch (1865–1923). Parsons also read widely on Calvinism. His reading included the work of Emile Doumerque, Eugéne Choisy, and Henri Hauser.\n\nIn 1927, after a year of teaching at Amherst (1926–1927), Parsons entered Harvard, as an instructor in the Economics Department, where he followed F.W. Taussig's lectures on tags economist Alfred Marshall and became friends with the economist historian Edwin Gay, the founder of Harvard Business School. Parsons also became a close associate of Joseph Schumpeter and followed his course General Economics. Parsons was generally at odds with some of the trends in Harvard's department which then went in a highly-technical and a mathematical direction. Parsons looked for other options at Harvard and gave courses in \"Social Ethics\" and in the \"Sociology of Religion.\" Although Parsons entered Harvard through the Economics Department, he never wanted to be an economist. All of his activities and his basic intellectual interest propelled him toward sociology, but no Sociology Department existed in his first years at Harvard. However, Harvard was working toward establishing one and Parsons prepared in various ways in writing and teaching obligations so he was ready to join it when it was finally established. Despite oral tradition, Parsons was never \"forced\" out of the Economics Department, but his exit was voluntary and deliberate.\n\nThe chance for a shift to sociology came in 1930, when Harvard's first Sociology Department was created under Russian scholar Pitirim Sorokin. Sorokin, who had fled the Russian Revolution from Russia to the United States in 1923, was given the opportunity to establish the department. Parsons became one of the new department's two instructors, along with Carl Joslyn. Parsons established close ties with biochemist and sociologist Lawrence Joseph Henderson, who took personal interest in Parsons' career at Harvard. Parsons became part of L.J. Henderson's famous Pareto study group in which some of the most important intellectuals at Harvard participated, including Crane Brinton, George C. Homans, and Charles P. Curtis. Parsons wrote an article on Pareto's theory and later explained that he had adopted the concept of \"social system\" from reading Pareto. Parsons also made strong connections with two other influential intellectuals with whom he corresponded for years: economist Frank H. Knight and Chester I. Barnard, one of the most dynamic businessmen of the US. The relationship between Parsons and Sorokin quickly ran sour. A pattern of personal tensions was aggravated by Sorokin's deep dislike for American civilisation, which he regarded as a sensate culture that was in decline. Sorokin's writings became increasingly anti-scientistic in his later years, widening the gulf between his work and Parsons' and turning the increasingly-positivisitic American sociology community against him. Sorokin also tended to belittle all sociology tendencies that differed from his own writings, and by 1934, Sorokin was quite unpopular at Harvard.\n\nSome of Parsons' students in the first years of the new department of Sociology were people like Robin Williams, Jr., Robert K. Merton, Kingsley Davis, Wilbert Moore, Edward C. Devereux, Logan Wilson, Nicholas Demereth, John Riley, Jr., and Mathilda White Riley. Later cohorts of students had with Harry Johnson, Bernard Barber, Marion Levy and Jesse R. Pitts. Parsons established, at the students' request, a little, informal study group which met year after year in Adams' house. Toward the end of Parsons' career, German systems theorist Niklas Luhmann also attended his lectures.\n\nIn 1932, Parsons bought his famous farmhouse in New Hampshire for $2500 in a wooded area near the small town of Acworth, but Parsons often, in his writing, referred to it as \"the farmhouse in Alstead.\" The farmhouse was not big and impressive; indeed, it was a very humble structure with almost no modern utilities. The farmhouse still became central to Parsons' life, and many of his most important works were written in its peace and quiet.\n\nIn the spring of 1933, Susan Kingsbury, a pioneer of women's rights in America, wrote to Parsons and offered him a position at Bryn Mawr College; however, Parsons declined the offer because, as he wrote to Kingsbury, \"neither salary nor rank is really definitely above what I enjoy here.\"\n\nIn the academic year of 1939-1940 Parsons and Schumpeter conducted an informal faculty seminar at Harvard, which met in Emerson Hall and discussed the concept of rationality. Among the participants in the seminary were D.V. McGranahan, Abram Bergson, Wassily Leontief, Gottfried Haberler, and Paul Sweezy. Schumpeter contributed with the essay \"Rationality in Economics\" to the seminar, and Parsons submitted the paper \"The Role of Rationality in Social Action\" for a general discussion. Schumpeter suggested to Parsons that they should write or edit a book together on rationality, but the project never materialized.\n\nIn the prevailing discussion between neoclassical economics and the institutionalists, which was one of the conflicts that prevailed within the field of economics in the 1920s and early 1930s, Parsons attempted to walk a very fine line. He was very critical about neoclassical theory, an attitude that prevailed all the way through his life and is reflected in his critique of Milton Friedman and Gary Becker. He was opposed to the utilitarian bias within the neoclassical approach and could not embrace them fully. However, he agreed partly on their theoretical and methodological style of approach, which should be distinguished from its substance. He was thus unable to accept the institutionalist solution. In an interview in 1975, Parsons would recall a conversation with Schumpeter on the institutionalist methodological position: \"An economist like Schumpeter, by contrast, would absolutely have none of that. I remember talking to him about the problem and .. I think Schumpeter was right. If economics had gone that way [like the institutionalists] it would have had to become a primarily empirical discipline, largely descriptive, and without theoretical focus. That's the way the 'institutionalists' went, and of course Mitchell was affiliated with that movement.\"\n\nParsons returned to Germany in the summer of 1930 and became a direct eyewitness to the feverish atmosphere in Weimar Germany during which the Nazi Party rose to power. Parsons would receive constant reports about the rise of Nazism through his friend, Edward Y. Hartshorne, who was travelling there. Parsons began, in the late 1930s, to warn the American public about the Nazi threat, but he had little success, as a poll showed that 91% of the country opposed the Second World War.\n\nMost of the US thought also that the country should have stayed out of the First World War and that the Nazis were, regardless of what they did in Germany or even Europe, no threat to the US. Many Americans even sympathized with Germany, as many had ancestry from there, and the latter both was strongly anticommunist and had gotten itself out of the Great Depression while the US was still suffering from it.\n\nOne of the first articles that Parsons wrote was \"New Dark Age Seen If Nazis Should Win.\" Parsons became one of the key initiators of the Harvard Defense Committee, aimed at rallying the American public against the Nazis. Parsons' voice would sound again and again over Boston's local radio stations, and he also spoke against Nazism during a dramatic meeting at Harvard, which disturbed by antiwar activists. Together with graduate student Charles O. Porter, Parsons would rally graduate students at Harvard for the war effort. (Porter would later become a Democratic US Representative for Oregon.) During the war, Parsons conducted a special study group at Harvard, which analyzed what its members considered the causes of Nazism, and the topic's leading experts participated.\n\nIn the spring of 1941, a discussion group on Japan began to meet at Harvard. The group's five core members were Parsons, John K. Fairbank, Edwin O. Reischauer, William M. McGovern, and Marion Levy, Jr. A few others would also occasionally join the group, including Ai-Li Sung (also known as Ai-Li Sung Chin) and Edward Y. Hartshorne. The group rose out of a strong desire to understand the country whose power in the East had grown tremendously and had allied itself with Germany), but as Levy frankly admitted, \"Reischauer was the only one who knew anything about Japan.\" Parsons, however, was eager to learn more about it and was \"concerned with general implications.\"\n\nShortly after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Parsons wrote in a letter to Arthur Upham Pope (1881–1969) that the importance of studies of Japan certainly had intensified.\n\nIn 1942, Parsons worked on arranging a major study of occupied countries with Bartholomew Landheer of the Netherlands Information Office in New York. Parsons had mobilized Georges Gurvitch, Conrad Arnsberg, Dr. Safranek and Theodore Abel to participate, but it never materialized for lack of funding. In early 1942, Parsons unsuccessfully approached Hartshorne, who had joined the Psychology Division of the Office of the Coordinator of Information (COI) in Washington to interest his agency in the research project. In February 1943, Parsons became the deputy director of Harvard School of Overseas Administration, which educated administrators to \"run\" the occupied territories in Germany and the Pacific Ocean. The task of finding relevant literature on both Europe and Asia was mindboggling and occupied a fair amount of Parsons' time. One scholar Parsons came to know was Karl August Wittfogel and discussed Weber. On China, Parsons received fundamental information from Chinese scholar Ai-Li Sung Chin and her husband, Robert Chin. Another Chinese scholar Parsons worked closely with there period was Hsiao-Tung Fei (or Fei Xiaotong) (1910–2005), who had studied at the London School of Economics and was an expert on the social structure of the Chinese village.\n\nParsons met Alfred Schutz (or Schütz) during the rationality seminar, which he conducted, together with Schumpeter, at Harvard in the spring of 1940. Schutz has been close to Edmund Husserl and was deeply embedded in his phenomenological philosophy. Schutz was born in Vienna but moved to the US in 1939, and for years, he worked on the project of developing a phenomenological sociology, primarily based on an attempt to find some point between Husserl's method and Weber's sociology. Parsons had asked Schutz to give a presentation at the rationality seminar, which he did on April 13, 1940, and Parsons and Schutz had lunched together afterward. Schutz was fascinated with Parsons' theory, which he regarded as the state-of-the-art social theory, and wrote an evaluation of Parsons' theory that he kindly asked Parsons to comment. That led to a short but intensive correspondence, which generally revealed that the gap between Schutz's sociologized phenomenology and Parsons concept of voluntaristic action was far too great. From Parsons' point of view, Schutz's position was too speculative and subjectivist that tended to reduce social processes to the articulation of a Lebenswelt consciousness. For Parsons, the defining edge of human life was action as a catalyst for historical change, and it was essential for sociology, as a science, to pay strong attention to the subjective element of action, but it should never become completely absorbed in it since the purpose of a science was to explain causal relationships, by covering laws or by other types of explanatory devices. Schutz's basic argument was that sociology cannot ground itself and that epistemology was not a luxury but a necessity for the social scientist. Parsons agreed but stressed the pragmatic need to demarcate science and philosophy and insisted moreover that the grounding of a conceptual scheme for empirical theory construction cannot aim at absolute solutions but need to take a sensible stock-taking of the epistemological balance at each point in time. However, the two men shared many basic assumptions about the nature of social theory, which has kept the debate simmering ever since. By request from Ilse Schutz, after her husband's death, Parsons gave, on July 23, 1971, permission to publish the correspondence between him and Schutz. Parsons also wrote \"A 1974 Retrospective Perspective\" to the correspondence, which characterized his position as a \"Kantian point of view\" and found that Schutz's strong dependence on Husserl's \"phenomenological reduction\" would make it very difficult to reach the kind of \"conceptual scheme,\" which Parsons found essential for theory-building in social sciences.\n\nBetween 1940 and 1944, Parsons and Eric Voegelin (or Vögelin) (1901–1985) exchanged their intellectual views through correspondence. Parsons had probably met Voegelin in 1938 and 1939, when Voegelin held a temporary instructor appointment at Harvard. The bouncing point for their conversation was Parsons' manuscript on anti-Semitism and other materials that he had sent to Voegelin. Discussion touched on the nature of capitalism, the rise of the West, and the origin of Nazism. The key to the discussion was the implication of Weber's interpretation of Protestant ethics and the impact of Calvinism on modern history. Although the two scholars agreed on many fundamental characteristics about Calvinism, their understanding of its historical impact was quite different. Generally, Voegelin regarded Calvinism as essentially a dangerous totalitarian ideology; Parsons argued that its current features were temporary and that the functional implications of its long-term, emerging value-l system had revolutionary and not only \"negative\" impact on the general rise of the institutions of modernity.\n\nThe two scholars also discussed Parsons' debate with Schütz and especially why Parsons had ended his encounter with Schutz. Parsons found that Schutz, rather than attempting to build social science theory, tended to get consumed in philosophical detours. Parsons wrote to Voegelin: \"Possibly one of my troubles in my discussion with Schuetz lies in the fact that by cultural heritage I am a Calvinist. I do not want to be a philosopher – I shy away from the philosophical problems underlying my scientific work. By the same token I don't think he wants to be a scientist as I understand the term until he has settled all the underlying philosophical difficulties. If the physicists of the 17th century had been Schuetzes there might well have been no Newtonian system.\"\n\nIn 1942, Stuart C. Dodd published a major work, \"Dimensions of society\", which attempted to build a general theory of society on the foundation of a mathematical and quantitative systematization of social sciences. Dodd advanced a particular approach, known as a \"S-theory.\" Parsons discussed Dodd's theoretical outline in a review article the same year. Parsons acknowledged Dodd's contribution to be an exceedingly formidable work but argued against its premises as a general paradigm for the social sciences. Parsons generally argued that Dodd's \"S-theory,\" which included the so-called \"social distance\" scheme of Bogardus, was unable to construct a sufficiently sensitive and systematized theoretical matrix, compared with the \"traditional\" approach, which has developed around the lines of Weber, Pareto, Émile Durkheim, Sigmund Freud, William Isaac Thomas, and other important agents of an action-system approach with a more clear dialogue with the cultural and motivational dimensions of human interaction.\n\nIn April 1944, Parsons participated in a conference, \"On Germany after the War,\" of psychoanalytical oriented psychiatrists and a few social scientists analyze the causes of Nazism and to discuss the principles for the coming occupation.\n\nDuring the conference, Parsons opposed what he found to be Lawrence S. Kubie's reductionism. Kubie was a psychoanalyst, who strongly argued that the German national character was completely \"destructive\" and that it would be necessary for a special agency of the United Nations to control the German educational system directly. Parsons and many others at the conference were strongly opposed to Kubie's idea. Parsons argued that it would fail and suggested that Kubie was viewing the question of German's reorientation \"too exclusively in psychiatric terms.\" Parsons was also against the extremely harsh Morgenthau Plan, published in September 1944. After the conference, Parsons wrote an article, \"The Problem of Controlled Institutional Change,\" against the plan.\n\nParsons participated as part-time adviser to the Foreign Economic Administration Agency between March and October 1945 to discuss postwar reparations and deindustrialization.\n\nParsons was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1945.\n\nParsons' situation at Harvard University changed significantly in early 1944, when he received a good offer from Northwestern University. Harvard reacted to the offer from Northwestern by appointing Parsons as the chairman of the department, promoting him to the rank of full professor and accepting the process of reorganization, which could lead to the establishment of the new department of Social Relations. Parsons' letter to Dean Paul Buck, on April 3, 1944, reveals the high point of this moment. Because of the new development at Harvard, Parsons chose to decline an offer from William Langer to join the Office of Strategic Services, the predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency. Langer proposed for Parsons to follow the American army in its march into Germany and to function as a political adviser to the administration of the occupied territories. Late in 1944, under the auspices of the Cambridge Community Council, Parsons directed a project together with Elizabeth Schlesinger. They investigated ethnic and racial tensions in the Boston area between students from Radcliffe College and Wellesley College. This study was a reaction to the upsurge of anti-Semicism in the Boston area, which began in late 1943 and continued into 1944. At the end of November 1946, the Social Research Council (SSRC) asked Parsons to write a comprehensive report of the topic of how the social sciences could contribute to the understanding of the modern world. The background was a controversy over whether the social sciences should be incorporated into the National Science Foundation.\n\nParsons' report was in form of a large memorandum, \"Social Science: A Basic National Resource,\" became available in July 1948 and remains a powerful historical statement about how he saw the role of modern social sciences.\n\nParsons became a member of the Executive Committee of the new Russian Research Center at Harvard in 1948, which had Parsons' close friend and colleague, Clyde Kluckhohn, as its director. Parsons went to Allied-occupied Germany in the summer of 1948, was a contact person for the RRC, and was interested in the Russian refugees who were stranded in Germany. He happened to interview in Germany a few members of the Vlasov Army, a Russian Liberation Army that had collaborated with the Germans during the war. The movement was named after Andrey Vlasov, a Soviet general captured by the Germans in June 1942. The Vlasov movement's ideology was a hybrid of elements and has been called \"communism without Stalin,\" but in the Prague Manifesto (1944), it had moved toward the framework of a constitutional liberal state.\n\nIn Germany in the summer of 1948 Parsons wrote several letters to Kluckhohn to report on his investigations.\n\nParsons' fight against communism was a natural extension of his fight against fascism in the 1930s and the 1940s. For Parsons, communism and fascism were two aspects of the same problem; his posthumous article \"A Tentative Outline of American Values\" was published in 1989 and called both collectivistic types \"empirical finalism,\" which he believed was a secular \"mirror\" of religious types of \"salvationalism\". In contrast, Parsons highlighted that American values generally were based on the principle of \"instrumental activism,\" which he believed was the outcome of Puritanism as a historical process. It representing what Parsons called \"worldly asceticism\" and represented the absolute opposite principle of empirical finalism. One can thus understand Parsons' statement late in life that the greatest threat to humanity is every type of \"fundamentalism\". By the term \"empirical finalism\", he implied the type of claim assessed by cultural and ideological actors about the correct or \"final\" ends of particular patterns of value orientation in the actual historical world (such as the notion of \"a truly just society\"), which was absolutist and \"indisputable\" in its manner of declaration and in its function as a belief system. For example, the Jacobins' behavior during the French Revolution would be a typical example. Parsons' rejection of communist and fascist totalitarianism was theoretically and intellectually an integral part of his theory of world history, and he tended to regard the European Reformation as the most crucial event in \"modern\" world history. Like Weber, he tended to highlight the crucial impact of Calvinist religiosity in the socio-political and socio-economic processes that followed. He maintained it reached its most radical form in England in the 17th century and gave in effect birth to the special cultural mode, which has characterized the American value system and history ever since. The Calvinist faith system, authoritarian in the beginning, eventually released in its accidental long-term institutional effects a fundamental democratic revolution in the world. Parsons maintained that the revolution was steadily unfolding, as part of his interpenetration of Puritan values in the world at large.\n\nParsons defended American exceptionalism and argued that because of a variety of historical circumstances, the impact of the Reformation had reached a certain intensity in British history. Puritan, essentially Calvinist, value patterns had become institutionalized in the Britain's internal situation. The outcome was that Puritan radicalism was reflected in the religious radicalism of the Puritan sects, in the poetry of John Milton, in the English Civil War, and in the process leading to the Glorious Revolution of 1688. It was the radical fling of the Puritan Revolution that provided settlers in early 17th-century Colonial America, and the Puritans who settled in America represented radical views on individuality, egalitarianism, skepticism to state power, and the zeal of the religious calling. The settlers established something unique in the world that was under the religious zeal of Calvinist values.\n\nTherefore, a new kind of nation was born, the character of which became clear by the time of the American Revolution and in the US constitution, And its dynamics later were studied by Alexis de Tocqueville. The French Revolution was failed attempt to copy the American model. Although America has changed in its social composition since 1787, Parsons maintained that it preserves the basic revolutionary Calvinist value pattern. That has been further revealed in the pluralist and highly individualized America, with its thick, network-oriented civil society, which is of crucial importance to its success and the factors have provided it with its historical lead in the industrialized process.\n\nParsons maintained has continued to place it in the leading position in the world but as a historical process and not in \"the nature of thing.\" Parsons viewed the \"highly special feature of the modern Western social world\" as \"dependent on the peculiar circumstances of its history, and not the necessary universal result of social development as a whole.\"\n\nIn contrast to some \"radicals,\" Parsons was a defender of modernity. He believed that modern civilization, with its technology and its constantly evolving institutions, was ultimately strong, vibrant, and essentially progressive. He acknowledged that the future had no inherent guarantees, but as sociologists Robert Holton and Bryan Turner said that Parsons was not nostalgic and that he did not believe in the past as a lost \"golden age\" but that he maintained that modernity generally had improved conditions, admittedly often in troublesome and painful ways but usually positively. He had faith in humanity's potential but not naïvely. When asked at the Brown Seminary in 1973 if he was optimistic about the future, he answered, \"Oh, I think I'm basically optimistic about the human prospects in the long run.\" Parsons pointed out that he was student at Heidelberg at the height of the vogue of Oswald Spengler, the author of \"The Decline of the West\", \"and he didn't give the West more than 50 years of continuing vitality after the time he wrote... Well, its more than 50 years later now, and I don't think the West has just simply declined. He was wrong in thinking it was the end.\"\n\nAt Harvard, Parsons was instrumental in forming the Department of Social Relations, an interdisciplinary venture among sociology, anthropology, and psychology. The new department was officially created in January 1946 with him as the chairman and with prominent figures at the faculty, such as Stouffer, Kluckhohn, Henry Murray and Gordon Allport. An appointment for Hartshorne was considered but he was killed in Germany by an unknown gunman as he driving on the highway. His position went instead to George C. Homans. The new department was galvanized by Parsons idea of creating a theoretical and institutional base for a unified social science. Parsons also became strongly interested in systems theory and cybernetics and began to adopt their basic ideas and concepts to the realm of social science, especially the work of Norbert Wiener (1894–1964) had his attention.\n\nSome of the students who arrived at the Department of Social Relations in the years after the Second World War were David Aberle, Gardner Lindzey, Harold Garfinkel, David G. Hays, Benton Johnson, Marian Johnson, Kaspar Naegele, James Olds, Albert Cohen, Norman Birnbaum, Robin Murphy Williams, Jackson Toby, Robert N. Bellah, Joseph Kahl, Joseph Berger, Morris Zelditch, Renee Fox, Tom O'Dea, Ezra Vogel, Clifford Geertz, Joseph Elder, Theodore Mills, Mark Field, Edward Laumann, and Francis Sutton.\n\nRenee Fox, who arrived at Harvard in 1949, would become a very close friend of the Parsons family. Joseph Berger, who also arrived at Harvard in 1949 after finishing his B.A. from Brooklyn College, would become Parsons' research assistant from 1952 to 1953 and would get involved in his research projects with Robert F. Bales.\n\nAccording to Parsons' own account, it was during his conversations with Elton Mayo (1880–1949) that he realized it was necessary for him to take a serious look at the work of Freud. In the fall of 1938, Parsons began to offer a series of non-credit evening courses on Freud. As time passed, Parsons developed a strong interest in psychoanalysis. He volunteered to participate in nontherapeutic training at the Boston Psychoanalytic Institute, where he began a didactic analysis with Dr. Grete Bibring in September 1946. Insight into psychoanalysis is significantly reflected in his later work, especially reflected in \"The Social System\" and his general writing on psychological issues and on the theory of socialization. That influence was also to some extent apparent in his empirical analysis of fascism during the war. Also, Wolfgang Köhler's study of the mentality of apes and Kurt Koffka's ideas of Gestalt psychology had Parsons's attention as well.\n\nDuring the late 1940s and the early 1950s, he worked very hard on producing some major theoretical statements. In 1951, Parsons published two major theoretical works, \"The Social System\" and \"Toward a General Theory of Action.\" The latter work, which was coauthored with Edward Tolman, Edward Shils and several others, was the outcome of the so-called Carnegie Seminar, which had taken place in the period of September 1949 and January 1950. The former work was Parsons' first major attempt to present his basic outline of a general theory of society since \"The Structure of Social Action\" (1937). He discusses the basic methodological and metatheoretical principles for such a theory. He attempts to present a general social system theory that is built systematically from most basic premises and so he featured the idea of an interaction situation based on need-dispositions and facilitated through the basic concepts of cognitive, cathectic, and evaluative orientation. The work also became known for introducing his famous pattern variables, which in reality represented choices distributed along a \"Gemeinschaft\" vs. \"Gesellschaft\" axis.\n\nHowever, the details of how Parsons thought about the outline of the social system went through a rapid series of changes in the following years but the basics remained. During the early 1950s, the idea of the AGIL model took place in Parsons's mind gradually. According to Parsons, its key idea was sparked during his work with Bales on motivational processes in small groups.\n\nParsons carried the idea into the major work that he co-authored with a student, Neil Smelser, which was published in 1956 as \"Economy and Society\". \nWithin this work, the first rudimentary model of the AGIL scheme was presented. It reorganized the basic concepts of the pattern variables in a new way and presented the solution within a system-theoretical approach by using the idea of a cybernetic hierarchy as an organizing principle. The real innovation in the model was the concept of the \"latent function\" or the pattern maintenance function, which became the crucial key to the whole cybernetic hierarchy.\n\nDuring its theoretical development, Parsons showed a persistent interest in symbolism. An important statement is Parsons' \"The theory of symbolism in relation to action.\" The article was stimulated by a series of informal discussion group meetings, which Parsons and several other colleagues in the spring of 1951 had conducted with philosopher and semiotician Charles W. Morris. His interest in symbolism went hand in hand with his interest in Freud's theory and \"The Superego and the Theory of Social Systems,\" written in May 1951 for a meeting of the American Psychiatric Association. The paper can be regarded as the main statement of his own interpretation of Freud but also as a statement of how Parsons tried to use Freud's pattern of symbolization to structure the theory of social system and eventually to codify the cybernetic hierarchy of the AGIL system within the parameter of a system of symbolic differentiation. His discussion of Freud also contains several layers of criticism that reveal that Parsons's use of Freud was selective, rather than orthodox. In particular, he claimed that Freud that \"introduced an unreal separation between the superego and the ego.\"\n\nParsons was an early subscriber to systems theory. Parsons had early been fascinated by the writing of Walter B. Cannon and his concept of homeostasis as well as of the writings of French physiologist Claude Bernard. His interest in systems theory had been further stimulated by his contract with LJ Henderson. Parsons called the concept of \"system\" for an indispensable master concept in the work of building theoretical paradigms for social sciences. From 1952 to 1957, Parsons participated in an ongoing Conference on System Theory under the chairmanship of Roy R. Grinker, Sr., in Chicago.\n\nParsons came into contact with several prominent intellectuals of the time and was particularly impressed by the ideas of social insect biologist Alfred Emerson. Parsons was especially compelled by Emerson's idea that in the sociocultural world, the functional equivalent of the gene was that of the \"symbol.\" Parsons also participated in two of the meetings of the famous Macy Conferences on systems theory\nand on issues that are now classified as cognitive science, which took place in New York from 1946 to 1953 and included scientists like John von Neumann. Parsons read widely on systems theory at the time, especially works of Norbert Wiener and William Ross Ashby who also were part of the core participants in the conferences. Around the same time, Parsons also benefited from conversations with political scientist Karl Deutsch on systems theory. In one conference, the Fourth Conference of the problems of consciousness in March 1953 at Princeton and sponsored by the Macy Foundation, Parsons would give a presentation on \"Conscious and Symbolic Processes\" and embark in an intensive group discussion which included exchange with child psychologist Jean Piaget.\n\nAmong the other participants were Mary A.B. Brazier, Frieda Fromm-Reichmann, Nathaniel Kleitman, Margaret Mead and Gregory Zilboorg. Parsons would defend the thesis that consciousness was essentially a social action phenomenon, not primarily a \"biological\" one. During the conference, Parsons criticized Piaget for not sufficiently separating cultural factors from a physiologistic concept of \"energy.\"\n\nDuring the McCarthy era, on April 1, 1952, J. Edgar Hoover, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigations, received a personal letter from an informant who reported on communist activities at Harvard. During a later interview, the informant claimed that \"Parsons... was probably the leader of an inner group\" of communist sympathizers at Harvard. The informant reported that the old department under Sorokin had been conservative and had \"loyal Americans of good character\" but that the new Department of Social Relations had turned into a decisive left-wing place as a result of \"Parsons's manipulations and machinations.\" Hoover granted, on October 27, 1952 authorization to the Boston FBI to initiate a security-type investigation on Parsons. In February 1954, a colleague, Stouffer, wrote to Parsons, in England to inform him that Stouffer had been denied access to classified documents and that part of the stated reason was that Stouffer knew Communists, including Parsons, \"who was a member of the Communist Party.\"\n\nParsons immediately wrote an affidavit in defense of Stouffer, and he also defended himself against the charges that were in the affidavit: \"This allegation is so preposterous that I cannot understand how any reasonable person could come to the conclusion that I was a member of the Communist Party or ever had been.\" In a personal letter to Stouffer, Parsons wrote, \"I will fight for you against this evil with everything there is in me: I am in it with you to the death.\" The charges against Parsons resulted in Parsons being unable to participate in a UNESCO conference, and it was not until January 1955 that he was acquitted of the charges.\n\nSince the late 1930s, Parsons had continued to show great interest in psychology and in psychoanalysis. In the academic year of 1955-1956, he taught a seminar at Boston Psychoanalytic Society and Institute entitled \"Sociology and Psychoanalysis.\" In 1956, he published a major work, \"Family, Socialization and Interaction Process\", which explored the way in which psychology and psychoanalysis bounce into the theories of motivation and socialization, as well into the question of kinship, which for Parsons established the fundamental axis for that subsystem he later would call \"the social community.\"\n\nIt contained articles written by Parsons and articles written in collaboration with Robert F. Bales, James Olds, Morris Zelditch, Jr., and Philip E. Slater. The work included a theory of personality as well as studies of role differentiation. The strongest intellectual stimuli that Parsons most likely got then was from brain researcher James Olds, one of the founders of neuroscience and whose 1955 book learning and motivation was strongly influenced from his conversations with Parsons. Some of the ideas in the book had been submitted by Parsons in an intellectual brainstorm in an informal \"work group,\" which he had organized with part of Joseph Berger, William Caudill, Frank E. Jones, Kaspar D. Naegele, Theodore M. Mills, Bengt G. Rundblad, and others. Albert J. Reiss from Vanderbilt University had submitted his critical commentary.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, Parsons also had extensive discussions with Olds about the motivational structure of psychosomatic problems, and Parsons's concept of psychosomatic problems at the time was strongly influence by readings and direct conversations with Franz Alexander (a psychoanalyst (originally associated with Berlin Psychoanalytic Institute) who was a pioneer of psychosomatic medicine), Grinker and John Spiegel.\n\nIn 1955, François Bourricaud was preparing a reader of some of Parsons' work for a French audience, and Parsons who wrote a preface for the book \"Au lecteur français\" (\"To the French Reader\"); it also went over Bourricaud's introduction very carefully. In his correspondence with Bourricaud, Parsons insisted that he did not necessarily treat values as the only let alone \"the primary empirical reference point\" of the action system since so many other factors were also involved in the actual historical pattern of an action situation.\n\nParsons spent 1957 to 1958 at the Center of Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences in Palo Alto, California, where he, for the first time in his life, met Kenneth Burke; his flamboyant, explosive temperament made a great impression on Parsons, and they two men became close friends. Parsons explained in a letter the impression Burke had left on him: \"The big thing to me is that Burke more than anyone else has helped me to fill a major gap in my own theoretical interests, in the field of the analysis of expressive symbolism.\"\n\nAnother scholar whom Parsons met at the Center for Advanced Studies in the Behavioral Sciences at Palo Alto was Alfred L. Kroeber, the \"dean of American anthropologists.\" Kroeber, who had received his Ph.D. at Columbia and who worked with the Arapaho Indians, was about 81 when he met Parsons. Parsons had the greatest admiration of Kroeber and called him \"my favorite elder statesman.\"\n\nIn Palo Alto, Kroeber suggested to Parsons to write a joint statement together to clarify the distinction between cultural and social systems, then was the subject of endless debates. In October 1958, Parsons and Kroeber published their joint statement in a short article, \"The Concept of Culture and the Social System,\" which became highly influential.\n\nParsons and Kroeber declared that it is important both to keep a clear distinction between the two concepts and to avoid a methodology by which either would be reduced to the other.\n\nIn 1955 to 1956, a group of faculty members at Cornell University met regularly and discussed Parsons' writings. The next academic year, a series of seven widely attended public seminars followed and culminated in a session at which he answered his critics. The discussions in the seminars were summed up in a book edited by Max Black, \"The Social Theories of Talcott Parsons: A Critical Examination\". It included an essay by Parsons, \"The Point of View of the Author.\" The scholars included in the volume were Edward C. Devereux, Jr., Robin M. Williams, Jr., Chandler Morse, Alfred L. Baldwin, Urie Bronfenbrenner, Henry A. Landsberger, William Foote Whyte, Black, and Andrew Hacker. The contributions converted many angles including personality theory, organizational theory, and various methodological discussions. Parsons' essay is particularly notable because it and another essay, \"Pattern Variables Revisited,\" both represented he most full-scale accounts of the basic elements of his theoretical strategy and the general principles behind his approach to theory-building when they were published in 1960.\n\nOne essay also included, in metatheoretical terms, a criticism of the theoretical foundations for the so-called conflict theory, however.\n\nFrom the late 1950s to the student rebellion in the 1960s and its aftermath, Parsons's theory was criticized by some scholars and intellectuals of the left, who claimed that Parsons's theory was inherently conservative, if not reactionary. Gouldner even claimed that Parsons had been an opponent of the New Deal.\n\nParsons's theory was further regarded as unable to reflect social change, human suffering, poverty, deprivation, and conflict. Theda Skocpol thought that the apartheid system in South Africa was the ultimate proof that Parsons's theory was \"wrong.\"\n\nAt the same time, Parsons's idea of the individual was seen as \"oversocialized,\" \"repressive,\" or subjugated in normative \"conformity.\" In addition, Jürgen Habermas and countless others were of the belief that Parsons' systems theory and his action theory were inherently opposed and mutually hostile and that Parsons's system theory was especially \"mechanical,\" \"positivistic,\" \"anti-individualistic,\" \"anti-voluntaristic,\" and \"de-humanizing\" by the sheer nature of its intrinsic theoretical context.\n\nBy the same token, his evolutionary theory was regarded as \"uni-linear,\" \"mechanical,\" \"biologistic,\" an ode to world system status quo, or simply an ill-concealed instruction manual for \"the capitalist nation-state.\"\n\nThe first manifestations of that branch of criticism would be intellectuals like Lewis Coser, Ralf Dahrendorf, David Lockwood, John Rex, C.W. Mills, Tom Bottomore and Alvin Gouldner among other.\n\nParsons supported John F. Kennedy on November 8, 1960; from 1923, with one exception, Parsons voted for Democrats all his life. He discussed the Kennedy election widely in his correspondence at the time. Parsons was especially interested in the symbolic implications involved in the fact of Kennedy's Catholic background for the implications for the United States as an integral community. (It was the only time a Catholic became President of the United States.)\n\nIn a letter to Robert N. Bellah, he wrote, \"I am sure you have been greatly intrigued by the involvement of the religious issue in our election.\" Parsons, who described himself as a \"Stevenson Democrat,\" was especially enthusiastic that his favored politician, Adlai Stevenson II, had been appointed United States Ambassador to the United Nations. Parsons had supported Stevenson in both 1952 and 1956 and was greatly disappointed that Stevenson twice lost heavily both times.\n\nIn the early 1960s, it became obvious that his ideas had a great impact on much of the theories of modernization at the time. His influence was very extensive but at the same time, the concrete adoption of his theory was often quite selective, half-hearted, superficial, and eventually confused. Many modernization theorists never used the full power of Parsons' theory but concentrated on some formalist formula, which often was taken out of the context that had the deeper meaning with which Parsons originally introduced them.\n\nIn works by Gabriel A. Almond and James S. Coleman, Karl W. Deutsch, S.N. Eisenstadt, Seymour Martin Lipset, Samuel P. Huntington, David E. Apter, Lucian W. Pye, Sidney Verba, and Chalmers Johnson, and others, Parsons' influence is clear.\n\nIndeed, it was the intensive influence of Parsons' ideas in political sociology that originally got scholar William Buxton interested in his work. In addition, David Easton would claim that in the history of political science, the two scholars who had made any serious attempt to construct a general theory for political science on the issue of political support were Easton and Parsons.\n\nOne of the scholars with whom he corresponded extensively with during his lifetime and whose opinion he highly valued was Robert N. Bellah. Parsons's discussion with Bellah would cover a wide range of topics, including the theology of Paul Tillich. The correspondence would continue when Bellah, in the early fall of 1960, went to Japan to study Japanese religion and ideology. In August 1960, Parsons sent Bellah a draft of his paper on \"The Religious Background of the American Value System\" to ask for his commentary.\n\nIn a letter to Bellah of September 30, 1960, Parsons discussed his reading of Perry Miller's \"An Errand into the Wilderness\". Parsons wrote that Miller's discussion of the role of Calvinism \"in the early New England theology... is a first rate and fit beautifully with the broad position I have taken.\" Miller was a literary Harvard historian whose books such as \"The New England Mind\" established new standards for the writing of American cultural and religious history. Miller remained one of Parsons' most favoured historians throughout his life. Indeed, religion had always a special place in Parsons' heart, but his son, in an interview, maintained that he that his father was probably not really \"religious.\"\n\nThroughout his life, Parsons interacted with a broad range of intellectuals and others who took a deep interest in religious belief systems, doctrines, and institutions. One notable person who interacted with Parsons was Marie Augusta Neal, a nun of the Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur who sent Parsons a huge number of her manuscripts and invited him to conferences and intellectual events in her Catholic Church. Neal received her Ph.D. from Harvard under Parsons's supervision in 1963, and she would eventually become professor and then chair of sociology at Emmanuel College in Boston. She was very enthusiastic about the Second Vatican Council and became known for the National Sisters Survey, which aimed at improving women's position in the Catholic Church.\n\nParsons and Winston White cowrote an article, \"The Link Between Character and Society,\" which was published in 1961. It was a critical discussion of David Riesman's \"The Lonely Crowd,\" which had been published a decade earlier and had turned into an unexpected bestseller, reaching 1 million sold copies in 1977. Riesman was a prominent member of the American academic left, influenced by Erich Fromm and the Frankfurt School. In reality, Riesman's book was an academic attempt to give credit to the concept of \"mass society\" and especially to the idea of an America suffocated in social conformity. Riesman had essentially argued that at the emerging of highly advanced capitalism, the America basic value system and its socializing roles had change from an \"inner-directed\" toward an \"other-directed\" pattern of value-orientation. Parsons and White challenged Riesman's idea and argued that there had been no change away from an inner-directed personality structure. The said that Riesman's \"other-directness\" looked like a caricature of Charles Cooley's looking-glass self, and they argued that the framework of \"institutional individualism\" as the basic code-structure of America's normative system had essentially not changed. What had happen, however, was that the industrialized process and its increased pattern of societal differentiation had changed the family's generalized symbolic function in society and had allowed for a greater permissiveness in the way the child related to his parents. Parsons and White argued that was not the prelude to greater \"otherdirectness\" but a more complicated way by which inner-directed pattern situated itself in the social environment.\n\n1963 was a notable year in Parsons's theoretical development because it was the year when he published two important articles: one on political power and one on the concept of social influence. The two articles represented Parsons's first published attempt to work out the idea of Generalized Symbolic Media as an integral part of the exchange processes within the AGIL system. It was a theoretical development, which Parsons had worked on ever since the publication of \"Economy and Society\" (1956). The prime model for the generalized symbolic media was money and Parsons was reflecting on the question whether the functional characteristics of money represented an exclusive uniqueness of the economic system or whether it was possible to identify other generalized symbolic media in other subsystems as well. Although each medium had unique characteristics, Parsons claimed that power (for the political system) and influence (for the societal community) had institutional functions, which essentially was structurally similar to the general systemic function of money. Using Roman Jakobson's idea of \"code\" and \"message,\" Parsons divided the components of the media into a question of value-principle versus coordination standards for the \"code-structure\" and the question of factor versus product control within those social process which carried the \"message\" components. While \"utility\" could be regarded as the value-principle for the economy (medium: money), \"effectiveness\" was the value-principle for the political system (by political power) and social solidarity for the societal community (by social influence). Parsons would eventually chose the concept of value-commitment as the generalized symbolic medium for the fiduciary system with integrity as the value principle.\n\nIn August 1963, Parsons got a new research assistant, Victor Lidz, who would become an important collaborator and colleague. In 1964, Parsons flew to Heidelberg to celebrate the 100th birthday of Weber and discuss Weber's work with Habermas, Herbert Marcuse, and others. Parsons delivered his paper \"Evaluation and Objectivity in Social Science: An Interpretation of Max Weber's Contribution.\" The meeting became in reality a clash between pro-Weberian scholars and the Frankfurt School. Before leaving for Germany, Parsons discussed the upcoming meeting with Reinhard Bendix and commented, \"I am afraid I will be something of a Daniel in the Lion's den.\" Bendix wrote back and told Parsons that Marcuse sounded very much like Christoph Steding, a Nazi philosopher.\n\nParsons conducted a persistent correspondence with noted scholar Benjamin Nelson, And he shared a common interest in the rise and the destiny of civilizations until Nelson's death in 1977. The two scholars also shared a common enthusiasm for the work of Weber and would generally agree on the main interpretative approach to the study of Weber. Nelson had participated in the Weber Centennial in Heidelberg.\n\nNelson got into a violent argument with Herbert Marcuse and accused him of tarnishing Weber. In reading the written version of Nelson's contribution to the Weber Centennial, Parsons wrote, \"I cannot let the occasion pass without a word of congratulations which is strong enough so that if it were concert I should shout bravo.\" In several letters, Nelson would keep Parsons informed of the often-turbulent leftist environment of Marcuse. In the letter of September 1967, Nelson would tell Parsons how much he enjoyed reading Parsons' essay on \"Kinship and the associational Aspect of Social Structure.\" Also, one of the scholars on whose work Parsons and Nelson would share internal commentaries was Habermas.\n\nParsons was opposed to the Vietnam War but was still disturbed by what he considered the anti-intellectual tendency in the student rebellion: serious debate often was substituted by handy slogans by communists Karl Marx, Mao Zedong and Fidel Castro.\n\nParsons had for years corresponded with his former graduate student David M. Schneider, who had taught at the University of California Berkeley until the latter, in 1960, accepted a position as professor in anthropology at the University of Chicago. Schneider had received his Ph.D. at Harvard in Social Anthropology in 1949 and had become a leading expert in the American kinship system. Schneider, in 1968, published \"American Kinship: A Cultural Account\" that became a classic within the field, and he had sent Parsons a copy of the copyedited manuscript before its publication. Parsons was highly appreciative of Schneider's work, which became in many ways a crucial turing point in his own attempt to understand the fundamental elements of the American kinship system, a key to understanding the factor of ethnicity and especially building the theoretical foundation of his concept of the societal community, which, by the beginning of the early 1970s, had become a strong priority in the number of theoretical projects of his own intellectual life.\n\nParsons borrowed the term \"diffuse enduring solidarity\" from Schneider, as a major concept for his own considerations on the theoretical construction of the concept of the societal community. In the spring of 1968, Parsons and Schneider had discussed Clifford Geertz's article on religion as a cultural system on which Parsons wrote a review. Parsons, who was a close friend of Geertz, was puzzled over Geertz's article. In a letter to Schneider, Parsons spoke about \"the rather sharp strictures on what he [Geertz] calls the extremely narrow intellectual tradition with special reference to Weber, but also to Durkheim. My basic point is in this respect, he greatly overstated his case seeming to argue that this intellectual tradition was by now irrelevant.\"\n\nSchneider wrote back to Parsons, \"So much, so often, as I read Cliff's stuff I cannot get a clear consistent picture of just what the religious system consist in instead only how it is said to work.\"\n\nIn a letter of July 1968 to Gene Tanke of the University of California Press, Parsons offered a critical note on the state of psychoanalytical theory and wrote: \"The use of psychoanalytical theory in interpretation of social and historical subject matter is somewhat hazardous enterprise, and a good deal of nonsense has been written in the name of such attempts.\" Around 1969, Parsons was approached by the prestigious \"Encyclopedia of the History of Idea\" about writing an entrance in the encyclopedia on the topic of the \"Sociology of Knowledge.\" Parsons accepted and wrote one of his most powerful essays, \"The Sociology of Knowledge and the History of Ideas,\" in 1969 or 1970. Parsons discussed how the sociology of knowledge, as a modern intellectual discipline, had emerged from the dynamics of European intellectual history and had reached a kind of cutting point in the philosophy of Kant and further explored by Hegel but reached its first \"classical\" formulation in the writing of Mannheim, whose brilliance Parsons acknowledged but disagreed with his German historicism for its antipositivistic epistemology; that was largely rejected in the more positivistic world of American social science. For various reasons, the editors of the encyclopedia turned down Parsons' essay, which did not fit the general format of their volume. The essay was not published until 2006.\n\nParsons had several conversations with Daniel Bell on a \"post-industrial society,\" some of which were conducted over lunch at William James Hall. After reading an early version of Bell's \"magnum opus\", \"The Coming of the Post-Industrial Society,\" Parsons wrote a letter to Bell, dated November 30, 1971, to offer his criticism. Among his many critical points, Parsons stressed especially that Bell's discussion of technology tended to \"separate off culture\" and treat the two categories \"as what I would call culture minus the cognitive component.\"\n\nParsons' interest in the role of ethnicity and religion in the genesis of social solidarity within the local community heavily influenced another of his early 1960s graduate students, Edward Laumann. As a student, Laumann was interested in the role of social network structure in shaping community-level solidarity. Combining Parsons' interest in the role of ethnicity in shaping local community solidarity with W. Lloyd Warner's structural approach to social class, Laumann argued that ethnicity, religion, and perceived social class all play a large role in structuring community social networks. Laumann's work found that community networks are highly partitioned along lines of ethnicity, religion, and occupational social status. It also highlighted the tension individuals experience between their preference to associate with people who are like them (homophily) and their simultaneous desire to affiliate with higher-status others. Later, at the beginning of his career at the University of Chicago, Laumann would argue that how the impulses are resolved by individuals forms the basis of corporate or competitive class consciousness within a given community. In addition to demonstrating how community solidarity can be conceptualized as a social network and the role of ethnicity, religion, and class in shaping such networks, Laumann's dissertation became one of the first examples of the use of population-based surveys in the collection of social network data, and thus a precursor to decades of egocentric social network analysis. Parsons thus played an important role in shaping social network analysis's early interest in homophily and the use of egocentric network data to assess group- and community-level social network structures.\n\nIn his later years, Parsons became increasingly interested in working out the higher conceptual parameters of the human condition, which was in part what led him toward rethinking questions of cultural and social evolution and the \"nature\" of telic systems, the latter which he especially discussed with Bellah, Lidz, Fox, Willy de Craemer and others. Parsons became increasingly interested in clarifying the relationship between biological and social theory. Parsons was the initiator of the first Daedalus conference on \"Some Relations between Biological and Social Theory,\" sponsored by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Parsons wrote a memorandum dated September 16, 1971 in which he spelled out the intellectual framework for the conference. As Parsons explained in the memo, the basic goal of the conference was to establish a conceptual fundament for a theory of living systems. The first conference was held on January 7, 1972. Among the participants beside Parsons and Lidz were Ernst Mayr, Seymour Kety, Gerald Holton, A. Hunter Dupree, and William Kurtz Wimsatt, Jr.. A second Daedalus Conference on Living Systems was held on March 1–2, 1974 and included Edward O. Wilson, who was about to publish his famous work on sociobiology. Other new participants were John T. Bonner, Karl H. Pribram, Eric Lennenberg and Stephen J. Gould.\n\nParsons began in the fall of 1972 to conduct a seminar on \"Law and Sociology\" with Lon L. Fuller, who was well known for his \"The Morality of Law\" (1964). The seminar and his conversations with Fuller stimulated Parsons to write one of his most influential articles, \"Law as an Intellectual Stepchild.\" Parsons discuses Roberto Mangabeira Unger's \"Law in Modern Society\" (1976). Another indication of Parsons' interest in law was reflected in his students, such as John Akula, who wrote his dissertation in sociology, \"Law and the Development of Citizenship\" (1973). In September 1972, Parsons participated in a conference in Salzburg on \"The Social Consequences of Modernization in Socialist Countries.\" Among the other participants were Alex Inkeles, Ezra Vogel, and Ralf Dahrendorf.\n\nIn 1972, Parsons wrote two review articles to discuss the work of Bendix, which provide a clear statement on Parsons' approach to the study of Weber. Bendix had become well known for his interpretations of Weber. In the first review article, Parsons analyzed the immigrant Bendix's \"Embattled Reason\", and he praised its attempt to defend the basic values of cognitive rationality, which he unconditionally shared, and he agreed with Bendix that the question of cognitive rationality was primarily a cultural issue, not a category that could be reduced from biologial, economic, and social factors. However, Parsons criticized how Bendix had proceeded, who he felt especially had misrepresented the work of Freud and Durkheim. Parsons found that the misrepresentation was how Bendix tended to conceive the question of systematic theorizing, under the concept of \"reductionism.\" Parsons further found that Bendix approach suffered from a \"conspicuous hostility\" to the idea of evolution. Although Parsons assessed that Weber rejected the linear evolutionary approaches of Marx and Herbert Spencer, Weber may not have rejected the question of evolution as a generalized question.\n\nIn a second article, a review of Bendix and Guenther Roth's \"Scholarship and Partisanship: Essays on Max Weber\", Parsons continued his line of criticism. Parsons was especially concerned with a statement by Bendix that claimed Weber believed Marx's notion that ideas were \"the epiphenomena of the organization of production.\" Parsons strongly rejected that interpretation: \"I should contend that certainly the intellectual \"mature\" Weber never was an \"hypothetical\" Marxist.\" Somewhere behind the attitudes of Bendix, Parsons detected a discomfort for the former to move out of an \"idiographic\" mode of theorizing.\n\nIn 1973, Parsons published \"The American University\", which he had authored with Gerald M. Platt. The idea had originally emerged when Martin Meyerson and Stephen Graubard of the American Academy of the Art and Sciences, in 1969, asked Parsons to undertake a monographic study of the American university system. The work on the book went on for years until it was finished in June 1972.\n\nFrom a theoretical point of view, the book had several functions. It substantiated Parsons' concept of the educational revolution, a crucial component in his theory of the rise of the modern world. What was equally intellectually compelling, however, was Parsons' discussion of \"the cognitive complex,\" aimed at explaining how cognitive rationality and learning operated as an interpenetrative zone on the level of the general action-system in society. In retrospect, the categories of the cognitive complex are a theoretical foundation to understand what has been called the modern knowledge-based society.\n\nHe officially retired from Harvard in 1973 but continued his writing, teaching, and other activities in the same rapid pace as before. Parsons also continued his extensive correspondence with a wide group of colleagues and intellectuals. He taught at the University of Pennsylvania, Brown University, Rutgers University, the University of Chicago, and the University of California at Berkeley. At Parsons' retirement banquet, on May 18, 1973, Robert K. Merton was asked to preside, while John Riley, Bernard Barber, Jesse Pitts, Neil J. Smelser and John Akula were asked to share their experiences of the man with the audience.\n\nOne scholar who became important in Parsons' later years was professor Martin U. Martel, of Brown University. They had made contact in the early 1970s at a discussion of an article that Martel had written about Parsons' work. Martel arranged a series of seminars at Brown University in 1973 to 1974, and Parsons spoke about his life and work and answered questions from students and faculty. Among the participants at the seminars were Martel, Robert M. Marsh, Dietrich Rueschemeyer, C. Parker Wolf, Albert F. Wessen, A. Hunter Dupree, Philip L. Quinn, Adrian Hayes and Mark A. Shields. In February to May 1974, Parsons also gave the Culver Lectures at Brown and spoke on \"The Evolution of Society.\" The lectures and were videotaped.\n\nLate in life, Parsons began to work out a new level of the AGIL model, which he called \"A Paradigm of the Human Condition.\" The new level of the AGIL model crystallized in the summer of 1974. He worked out the ideas of the new paradigm with a variety of people but especially Lidz, Fox and Harold Bershady. The new metaparadigm featured the environment of the general action system, which included the physical system, the biological system, and what Parsons called the telic system. The telic system represents the sphere of ultimate values in a sheer metaphysical sense. Parsons also worked toward a more comprehensive understanding of the code-structure of social systems and on the logic of the cybernetic pattern of control facilitating the AGIL model. He wrote a bulk of notes: two being \"Thoughts on the Linking of Systems\" and \"Money and Time.\" He had also extensive discussions with Larry Brownstein and Adrian Hayes on the possibility of a mathematical formalization of Parsons' theory.\n\nParsons had worked intensively with questions of medical sociology, the medical profession, psychiatry, psychosomatic problems, and the questions of health and illness. Most of all Parsons had become known for his concept of \"the Sick role.\" The last field of social research was an issue that Parsons constantly developed through elaboration and self-criticism. Parsons participated at the World Congress of Sociology in Toronto in August 1974 at which he presented a paper, \"The Sick Role Revisited: A Response to Critics and an Updating in Terms of the Theory of Action,\" which was published under a slightly different title, \"The Sick Role and the Role of the Physician Reconsidered,\" in 1975. In his essay, Parsons highlighted that his concept of \"sick role\" never was meant to be confined to \"deviant behavior,\" but \"its negative valuation should not be forgotten.\" It was also important to keep a certain focus on the \"motivatedness\" of illness since there always is a factor of unconscious motivation in the therapeutic aspects of the sick role.\n\nIn 1975, Bellah published \"The Broken Covenant\". Bellah referred was the sermon delivered by John Winthrop (1587–1649) to his flock on the ship \"Arbella\" on the evening of the landing in Massachusetts Bay in 1630. Winthrop declared that the Puritan colonists' emigration to the New World was part of a covenant, a special pact with God, to create a holy community and noted: \"For we must consider that we shall be a city on the hill. The eyes of all people are upon us.\" Parsons disagreed strongly with Bellah's analysis and insisted that the covenant was not broken. Parsons later used much of his influential article, \"Law as an Intellectual Stepchild,\" to discuss Bellah's position.\n\nParsons thought that Bellah trivialized the tensions of individual interests and society's interests by reducing them to \"capitalism;\" Bellah, in his characterization of the negative aspects of American society, was compelled by a charismatic-based optimalism moral absolutism.\n\nIn 1975, Parsons responded to an article by Jonathan H. Turner, \"Parsons as a Symbolic Interactionist: A Comparison of Action and Interaction theory.\" Parsons acknowledged that action theory and symbolic interactionism should not be regarded as two separate, antagonistic positions but have overlapping structures of conceptualization. Parsons regarded symbolic interactionism and the theory of George Herbert Mead as valuable contributions to action theory that specify certain aspects of the theory of the personality of the individual. Parsons, however, criticized the symbolic interactionism of Herbert Blumer since Blumer's theory had no end to the openness of action. Parsons regarded Blumer as the mirror image of Claude Lévi-Strauss, who tended to stress the quasi-determined nature of macro-structural systems. Action theory, Parsons maintained, represented a middle ground between both extremes.\n\nIn 1976, Parsons was asked to contribute to a volume to celebrate the 80th birthday of Jean Piaget. Parsons contributed with an essay, \"A Few Considerations on the Place of Rationality in Modern Culture and Society.\" Parsons characterized Piaget as the most eminent contributor to cognitive theory in the 20th century. However, he also argued that the future study of cognition had to go beyond its narrow encounter with psychology to aim at a higher understanding of how cognition as a human intellectual force was entangled in the processes of social and cultural institutionalization.\n\nIn 1978, when James Grier Miller published his famous work \"Living Systems\", Parsons was approached by \"Contemporary Sociology\" to write a review article on Miller's work. Parsons had already complained in a letter to A. Hunter Dupree that American intellectual life suffered from a deep-seated tradition of empiricism and saw Miller's book the latest confirmation of that tradition. In his review, \"Concrete Systems and \"Abstracted Systems,\" he generally praised the herculean task behind Miller's work but criticized Miller for getting caught in the effort of hierarchize concrete systems but underplay the importance of structural categories in theory building. Parsons also complained about Miller's lack of any clear distinction between cultural and non-cultural systems.\n\nJapan had long been a keen interest in Parsons' work. As early as 1958, a Japanese translation of \"Economy and Society\" appeared. Also, \"The Structure of Social Action\" was translated into Japanese. \"The Social System\" was translated into Japanese by Tsutomu Sato in 1974. Indeed, Ryozo Takeda had, as early as 1952 in his \"Shakaigaku no Kozo (\"The Framework of Sociology\")\" introduced Japanese scholars to some of Parsons' ideas. Parsons had visited Japan for the first time in 1972 and he gave a lecture on November 25 to the Japanese Sociological Association, \"Some Reflections on Post-Industrial Society\" that was published in \"The Japanese Sociological Review\". At the same time, Parsons participated in an international symposium on \"New Problems of Advanced Societies,\" held in Tokyo, and he wrote short articles written that appeared in the proceedings of the symposium. Tominaga, born in 1931, a leading figure in Japanese sociology and a professor at the University of Tokyo, was asked by Lidz to contribute to a two-volume collection of essays to honor Parsons. Tominaga wrote an essays on the industrial growth model of Japan and used Parsons' AGIL model.\n\nIn 1977, Professor Washio Kurata, the new dean of the Faculty of Sociology of Kwansei Gakuin University wrote to Parsons and invited him to visit Japan during the 1978-1979 academic year. In early spring, Parsons accepted the invitation, and on October 20, 1978 Parsons arrived at the Osaka Airport, accompanied by his wife, and was greeted royally by a large entourage.\n\nParsons began weekly lectures at Kwansei's sociology department from October 23 to December 15. Parsons gave his first public lecture to a huge mass of undergraduates, \"The Development of Contemporary Sociology.\" Professor Hideichiro Nakano served as an interpreter.\n\nOn November 17–18, when the Sengari Seminar House was opened, Parsons was invited as the key speaker at the event and gave two lectures, \"On the Crisis of Modern Society\" and \"Modern Society and Religion.\" Present were Tominaga, Mutsundo Atarashi, Kazuo Muto, and Hideichiro Nakano.\n\nOn November 25, lectures at Kobe University were organized by Hiroshi Mannari. Parsons lectured on organization theory to the faculty and the graduate students from the Departments of Economics, Management and Sociology. Also, faculty members from Kyoto and Osaka Universities were present. A text was published the next year. On November 30 to December 1, Parsons participated in a Tsukuba University Conference in Tokyo; Parsons spoke on \"Enter the New Society: The Problem of the Relationship of Work and Leisure in Relation to Economic and Cultural Values.\"\n\nOn December 5, Parsons gave a lecture at Kyoto University on \"A Sociologist Looks at Contemporary U.S. Society.\"\n\nAt a special lecture at Osaka on December 12, Parsons spoke, at the suggestion of Tominaga, on \"Social System Theory and Organization Theory\" to the Japanese Sociological Association. Earlier that day, Parsons had a discussion with Tominaga at Iwanami Shoten, which was published in a journal \"SHISO\".\n\nOn December 14, Kwansei Gakuin University granted Parsons an honorary doctor degree. Some of his lectures would be collected into a volume by Kurata and published in 1983. The Parsons flew back to the US in mid-December 1978.\n\nAs a sign of friendship Hideichiro Nakano sent Parsons a Buddha mask. Parsons had especially been captivated by certain aspects of Zen Buddhism. He told his friends that after his experience in Japan, he was going to reconsider certain aspects of his interpretation of the origins of modern civilizations.\n\nIn Munich on a trip to Germany, where he was celebrating the 50th anniversary of his degree at Heidelberg. The day before, he had given a lecture of social class to an audience of German intellectuals, including Habermas, Niklas Luhmann and Wolfgang Schluchter.\n\nParsons produced a general theoretical system for the analysis of society, which he called \"theory of action,\" based on the methodological and epistemological principle of \"analytical realism\" and on the ontological assumption of \"voluntaristic action.\" Parsons' concept of analytical realism can be regarded as a kind of compromise between nominalist and realist views on the nature of reality and human knowledge. Parsons believed that objective reality can be related to only by a particular encounter of such reality and that general intellectual understanding is feasible through conceptual schemes and theories. Interaction with objective reality on an intellectual level should always be understood as an approach. Parsons often explained the meaning of analytical realism by quoting a statement by Henderson: \"A fact is a statement about experience in terms of a conceptual scheme.\"\n\nGenerally, Parsons maintained that his inspiration regarding analytical realism had been Lawrence Joseph Henderson and Alfred North Whitehead although he might have gotten the idea much earlier. It is important for Parsons' \"analytical realism\" to insist on the reference to an objective reality since he repeatedly highlighted that his concept of \"analytical realism\" was very different from the \"fictionalism\" of Hans Vaihiger (Hans Vaihinger): \"We must start with the assertion that all knowledge which purports to be valid in anything like the scientific sense presumes both the reality of object known and of a knower. I think we can go beyond that and say that there must be a community of knowers who are able to communicate with each other. Without such a presupposition it would seem difficult to avoid the pitfall of solipsism. The so-called natural sciences do not, however, impute the \"status of knowing subjects\" to the objects with which they deal.\"\n\n\"The Structure of Social Action\" (SSA), Parsons' most famous work, took form piece by piece. Its central figure was Weber, and the other key figures in the discussion were added, little by little, as the central idea took form. One important work that helped Parsons' central argument in was, in 1932, unexpectedly found: Élie Halévy's \"La formation du radicalisme philosophique\"(1901–1904); he read the three-volume work in French. Parsons explained, \"Well, Halévy was just a different world... and helped me to really get in to many clarifications of the assumptions distinctive to the main line of British utilitarian thought; assumptions about the 'natural identity of interest', and so on. I still think it is one of the true masterpieces in intellectual history.\" Parsons first achieved significant recognition with the publication of \"The Structure of Social Action\" (1937), his first grand synthesis, combining the ideas of Durkheim, Weber, Pareto, and others.\n\nParsons' action theory can be characterized as an attempt to maintain the scientific rigour of positivism while acknowledging the necessity of the \"subjective dimension\" of human action incorporated in hermeneutic types of sociological theories. It is cardinal in Parsons' general theoretical and methodological view that human action must be understood in conjunction with the motivational component of the human act. Social science must consider the question of ends, purpose, and ideals in its analysis of human action. Parsons' strong reaction to behavioristic theory as well as to sheer materialistic approaches derives from the attempt of the theoretical positions to eliminate ends, purpose, and ideals as factors of analysis. Parsons, in his term papers at Amherst, was already criticizing attempts to reduce human life to psychological, biological, or materialist forces. What was essential in human life, Parsons maintained, was how the factor of culture was codified. Culture, however, was to Parsons an independent variable in that it could not be \"deducted\" from any other factor of the social system. That methodological intention is given the most elaborate presentation in \"The Structure of Social Action,\" which was Parsons' first basic discussion of the methodological foundation of the social sciences.\n\nSome of the themes in \"The Structure of Social Action\" had been presented in a compelling essay two years earlier in \"The Place of Ultimate Values in Sociological Theory.\"\n\nParsons developed his ideas during a period when systems theory and cybernetics were very much on the front burner of social and behavioral science. In using systems thinking, he postulated that the relevant systems treated in social and behavioral science were \"open:\" they were embedded in an environment with other systems. For social and behavioral science, the largest system is \"the action system,\" the interrelated behaviors of human beings, embedded in a physical-organic environment.\n\nAs Parsons developed his theory, it became increasingly bound to the fields of cybernetics and system theory but also to Emerson's concept of homeostasis and Ernst Mayr's concept of \"teleonomic processes.\" On the metatheoretical level, Parson attempted to balance psychologist phenomenology and idealism on the one hand and pure types of what Parsons called the utilitarian-positivistic complex, on the other hand.\n\nThe theory includes a general theory of social evolution and a concrete interpretation of the major drives of world history. In Parsons' theory of history and evolution, the constitutive-cognitive symbolization of the cybernetic hierarchy of action-systemic levels has, in principle, the same function as genetic information in DNA's control of biological evolution, but that factor of metasystemic control does not \"determine\" any outcome but defines the orientational boundaries of the real pathfinder, which is action itself. Parsons compares the constitutive level of society with Noam Chomsky's concept of \"deep structure.\"\n\nAs Parsons wrote, \"The deep structures do not as such articulate any sentences which could convey coherent meaning. The surface structures constitute the level at which this occurs. The connecting link between them is a set of rules of transformation, to use Chomsky's own phase.\" The transformative processes and entities are generally, at least on one level of empirical analysis, performed or actualized by myths and religions, but philosophies, art systems, or even semiotic consumer behavior can, in principle, perform that function.\n\nParsons' theory reflects a vision of a unified concept of social science and indeed of living systems in general. His approach differs in essence from Niklas Luhmann's theory because Parsons rejects the idea that systems can be autopoietic, short of the actual action system of individual actors. Systems have immanent capacities but only as an outcome of the institutionalized processes of action-systems, which, in the final analysis, is the historical effort of individual actors. While Luhmann became caught up in sheer systemic immanence, Parsons insisted that the question of autocatalytic and homeostatic processes and the question about the actor as the ultimate \"first mover\" on the other hand was not mutually exclusive. Homeostatic processes might be necessary if and when they occur but action is necessitating.\n\nIt is only that perspective of the ultimate reference in action that Parsons' dictum (that higher-order cybernetic systems in history will tend to control social forms that are organized on the lower levels of the cybernetic hierarchy) should be understood. For Parsons, the highest levels of the cybernetic hierarchy as far as the general action level is concerned is what Parsons calls the constitutive part of the cultural system (the L of the L). However, within the interactional processes of the system, attention should be paid especially to the cultural-expressivistic axis (the L-G line in the AGIL). By the term \"constitutive,\" Parsons generally referred to very highly codified cultural values especially religious elements (but other interpretation of the term \"constitutive\" is possible).\n\nCultural systems have an independent status from that of the normative and orientational pattern of the social system; neither system cannot be reduced to the other. For example, the question of the \"cultural capital\" of a social system as a sheer historical entity (in its function as a \"fiduciary system\"), is not identical to the higher cultural values of that system; that is, the cultural system is embodied with a metastructural logic that cannot be reduced to any given social system or cannot be viewed as a materialist (or behavioralist) deduction from the \"necessities\" of the social system (or from the \"necessities\" of its economy). Within that context, culture would have an independent power of transition, not only as factors of actual sociocultural units (like Western civilization) but also how original cultural bases would tend to \"universalize\" through interpenetration and spread over large numbers of social systems as with Classical Greece and Ancient Israel, where the original social bases had died but the cultural system survived as an independently \"working\" cultural pattern, as in the case of Greek philosophy or in the case of Christianity, as a modified derivation from its origins in Israel.\n\nThe difference between Parsons and Jürgen Habermas lies essentially in how Habermas uses Parsons' theory to establish the basic propositions of his own. Habermas takes the division between Parsons' separation between the \"outer\" and the \"inner\" dimensions of the social system and labels them \"system\" (outer dimension (A-G)) and \"lifeworld\" (inner dimension (I-L)). The problem with this model from Parsons' point of view is a) that conflict within the social system can in reality emerge from any relational point and not simply from the system-lifeworld dichotomy, and b) by relating the system-lifeworld model to some kind of \"liberation\"-epic, Habermas produces the Utopian notion that the potentiality of conflict within the social system has some kind of \"final solution,\" which produces a misleading concept of the nature of systemic conflict.\n\nIt is important to highlight that Parsons distinguished two \"meanings\" or modes of the term \"general theory.\" He sometimes wrote about general theory as aspects of theoretical concerns of social sciences whose focus is on the most \"constitutive\" elements of cognitive concern for the basic theoretical systematization of a given field. Parsons would include the basic conceptual scheme for the given field, including its highest order of theoretical relations and naturally also the necessary specification of this system's axiomatic, epistemological, and methodological foundations from the point of view of logical implications. All the elements would signify the quest for a general theory on the highest level of theoretical concern.\n\nHowever, general theory could also refer to a more fully/operational system whose implications of the conceptual scheme were \"spelled out\" on lower levels of cognitive structuralization, levels standing closer to a perceived \"empirical object.\" In his speech to the American Sociological Society in 1947, he spoke of five levels:\n\nDuring his life, he would work on developing all five fields of theoretical concerns but pay special attention to the development on the highest \"constitutive\" level, as the rest of the building would stand or fall on the solidity of the highest level.\n\nDespite myths, Parsons never thought that modern societies exist in some kind of perfect harmony with their norms or that most modern societies were necessarily characterized by some high level of consensus or a \"happy\" institutional integration. Parsons highlighted that is almost logically impossible that there can be any \"perfect fit\" or perfect consensus in the basic normative structure of complex modern societies because the basic value pattern of modern societies is generally differentiated in such a way that some of the basic normative categories exist in inherent or at least potential conflict with each other. For example, freedom and equality are generally viewed as fundamental and non-negotiable values of modern societies. Each represents a kind of ultimate imperative about what the higher values of humanity. However, as Parsons emphasizes, no simple answer on the priority of freedom or equality or any simple solution on how they possibly can be mediated, if at all. Therefore, all modern societies are faced with the inherent conflict prevailing between the two values, and there is no \"eternal solution\" as such. There cannot be any perfect match between motivational pattern, normative solutions, and the prevailing value pattern in any modern society. Parsons also maintained that the \"dispute\" between \"left\" and \"right\" has something to do with the fact that they both defend ultimately \"justified\" human values (or ideals), which alone is indispensable as values but are always in an endless conflictual position to each other.\n\nParsons always maintained that the integration of the normative pattern in society is generally problematic and that the level of integration that is reached in principle is always far from harmonious and perfect. If some \"harmonious pattern\" emerges, it is related to specific historical circumstances but is not a general law of the social systems.\n\nThe heuristic scheme that Parsons used to analyze systems and subsystems is called the \"AGIL Paradigm\" or the \"AGIL scheme.\" To survive or maintain equilibrium with respect to its environment, any system must to some degree adapt to that environment (adaptation), attain its goals (goal attainment), integrate its components (integration), and maintain its latent pattern (latency pattern Maintenance), a sort of cultural template. The concepts can be abbreviated as AGIL and are called the system's functional imperatives. It is important to understand that Parsons AGIL model is an analytical scheme for the sake of theoretical \"production,\" but it is not any simple \"copy\" or any direct historical \"summary\" of empirical reality. Also, the scheme itself does not explain \"anything,\" just as the periodical table nothing by itself in the natural sciences. The AGIL scheme is a tool for explanations and is no better than the quality of the theories and explanation by which it is processed.\n\nIn the case of the analysis of a social action system, the AGIL Paradigm, according to Parsons, yields four interrelated and interpenetrating subsystems: the behavioral systems of its members (A), the personality systems of those members (G), the social system (as such) (I), and the cultural system of that society (L). To analyze a society as a social system (the I subsystem of action), people are posited to enact roles associated with positions. The positions and roles become differentiated to some extent and, in a modern society, are associated with things such as occupational, political, judicial, and educational roles.\n\nConsidering the interrelation of these specialized roles as well as functionally differentiated collectivities (like firms and political parties), a society can be analyzed as a complex system of interrelated functional subsystems:\n\nThe pure AGIL model for all living systems:\n\nThe Social System Level:\n\nThe General Action Level:\n\nThe cultural level:\n\nThe Generalized Symbolic media:\n\nSocial System level:\n\nParsons elaborated upon the idea that each of these systems also developed some specialized symbolic mechanisms of interaction analogous to money in the economy, like influence in the social community. Various processes of \"interchange\" among the subsystems of the social system were postulated.\n\nParsons' use of social systems analysis based on the AGIL scheme was established in his work \"Economy and Society\" (with N. Smelser, 1956) and has prevailed in all his work ever since. However, the AGIL system existed only in a \"rudimentary\" form in the beginning and was gradually elaborated and expanded in the decades which followed. A brief introduction to Parsons' AGIL scheme can be found in Chapter 2 of \"The American University\" (with G. Platt, 1973). There is, however, no single place in his writing in which the total AGIL system is visually displayed or explained: the complete system have to be reconstructed from multiple places in his writing. The system displayed in \"The American University\" has only the most basic elements and should not be mistaken for the whole system.\n\nParsons contributed to social evolutionism and neoevolutionism. He divided evolution into four sub-processes:\n\nFurthermore, Parsons explored the sub-processes within three stages of evolution:\n\nParsons viewed Western civilisation as the pinnacle of modern societies and the United States as the one that is most dynamically developed.\n\nParsons' late work focused on a new theoretical synthesis around four functions that he claimed are common to all systems of action, from the behavioral to the cultural, and a set of symbolic media that enables communication across them. His attempt to structure the world of action according to a scheme that focused on order was unacceptable for American sociologists, who were retreating from the grand pretensions of the 1960s to a more empirical, grounded approach.\n\nParsons asserted that there are not two dimensions to societies: instrumental and expressive but that there are qualitative differences between kinds of social interaction.\n\nHe observed that people can have personalized and formally-detached relationships, based on the roles that they play. The \"pattern variables\" are what he called the characteristics that are associated with each kind of interaction.\n\nAn interaction can be characterized by one of the identifiers of each contrastive pair:\n\nFrom the 1940s to the 1970s, Parsons was one of the most famous and most influential but also most controversial sociologists in the world, particularly in the US. His later works were met with criticism and were generally dismissed in the 1970s by the view that his theories were too abstract, inaccessible, and socially conservative.\n\nRecently, interest has increased in Parsons' ideas and especially often-overlooked later works. Attempts to revive his thinking have been made by Parsonsian sociologists and social scientists like Jeffrey Alexander, Bryan Turner, Richard Münch, and Roland Robertson, and Uta Gerhardt has written about Parsons from a biographical and historical perspective. In addition to the United States, the key centers of interest in Parsons today are Germany, Japan, Italy, and the United Kingdom.\n\nParsons had a seminal influence and early mentorship of many American and international scholars, such as Ralf Dahrendorf, Alain Touraine, Niklas Luhmann, and Habermas. His best-known pupil was Merton.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11130984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11130984", "title": "The Philanthropist", "text": "The Philanthropist\n\nThe Philanthropist is a quarterly academic journal devoted to the legal, management and accounting issues facing charitable and not-for-profit organizations in Canada. It was founded as an occasional publication of the Trusts and Estates Section of the Canadian Bar Association - Ontario (now the Ontario Bar Association) in Toronto, Ontario, Canada in 1972. Its first Editor was Bertha Wilson, later a judge of the Supreme Court of Canada. For a time during the 1980s it was an official publication of the Canadian Centre for Philanthropy (now Imagine Canada). It derives its funding from the Agora Foundation in Toronto. The Ontario Law Reform Commission's Report on the Law of Charities (1996) called it \"informed rather than learned\". Its content is overseen by a volunteer Editorial Board drawn from the charitable sector, law, accounting and academia. As of May 2009 the current and archived content is available electronically at no charge. \n\n"}
{"id": "6606204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6606204", "title": "Transport Act 2000", "text": "Transport Act 2000\n\nThe Transport Act 2000 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It provided for a number of measures regarding transport in Great Britain, most notably, the first major change in the structure of the privatised railway system established under the Railways Act 1993. \n\nThe Director of Passenger Rail Franchising and the British Railways Board were both abolished and their functions transferred to the Strategic Rail Authority.\n\nThe Act provides the framework for the railway byelaws.\n\nThe Act laid down the framework for the creation of a public-private partnership (effectively privatisation) of National Air Traffic Services.\n\nPart III of the Act introduced the concept of the Road User Charge or Road User Charging schemes, and workplace parking levys. This enabled various road pricing schemes, such as the London congestion charge and extension of the Dartford Crossing tolls. The Act also enabled the creation of Home zones.\n\n"}
{"id": "1963781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1963781", "title": "United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime", "text": "United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime\n\nThe United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime (UNTOC) is a 2000 United Nations-sponsored multilateral treaty against transnational organized crime. The Convention was adopted by a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly on 15 November 2000. It is also called the Palermo Convention, and its three supplementary protocols (the Palermo Protocols) are:\n\nAll four of these instruments contain elements of the current international law on human trafficking, arms trafficking and money laundering. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) acts as custodian of the UNTOC and its protocols.\n\nThe Convention came into force on 29 September 2003. As of 19 September 2017, it has 189 parties, which includes 184 United Nations member states, the Cook Islands, the Holy See, Niue, the State of Palestine, and the European Union. The nine UN member states that are \"not\" party to the Convention are (* indicates that the state has signed but not ratified the Convention):\n\n"}
{"id": "838419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=838419", "title": "United States Senate Special Committee on Aging", "text": "United States Senate Special Committee on Aging\n\nThe United States Senate Special Committee on Aging was initially established in 1961 as a temporary committee; it became a permanent Senate committee in 1977. As a special committee, it has no legislative authority, but it studies issues related to older Americans, particularly Medicare and Social Security.\n\nPrior to the passage of Medicare, the committee was studying health care insurance coverage for elderly American citizens. The committee conducts oversight of the Medicare program, Social Security and the Older Americans Act. Some of the issues that have been examined by the committee include unacceptable conditions in nursing homes, protection from age discrimination, and pricing practices for prescription drugs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31406526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31406526", "title": "United States presidential eligibility legislation", "text": "United States presidential eligibility legislation\n\nArticle Two, Section 1 of the United States Constitution sets forth the eligibility requirements for serving as President of the United States:\n\nThe Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution also sets constraints on who may be elected to the Presidency:\n\nThe controversy arising from conspiracy theories over Barack Obama's citizenship and eligibility for the presidency prompted a number of Republican state and federal legislators to propose legislation aimed at requiring future presidential candidates to release copies of their birth certificates. The Hawaii State legislature went in the opposite direction, to limit the lengths that proponents can go in pursuit of this issue, as the pursuits have drained resources from the state.\n\nActivists lobbied members of Congress to reject the Electoral College vote and block Obama's election as president in its sitting on January 8, 2009, to certify and tally the results of the election. Two Republican members of the House of Representatives, John Linder and Ron Paul, were heavily lobbied by activists who believed that the two lawmakers would be more willing than other members of Congress to raise objections to Obama's confirmation. The lobbying was unsuccessful and Congress unanimously declared Obama to be the winner of the election.\n\nIn March 2009, Representative Bill Posey, a newly elected Republican from Florida's 15th congressional district, introduced a bill, H.R. 1503, in the U.S. House of Representatives. Had this bill been enacted into law, it would have amended the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to require candidates for the Presidency \"to include with the [campaign] committee's statement of organization a copy of the candidate's birth certificate\" plus supporting documentation.\nThe bill did not initially have any co-sponsors and was introduced without the Republican leadership being informed.\n\"Florida Today\", the newspaper serving his constituency, commented that the bill \"stems from fringe opponents of President Barack Obama who, during the 2008 election campaign, questioned whether Obama was born in Hawaii,\" but added that Posey's office \"does not question Obama's citizenship.\"\nPosey explained his motivation as being to \"prevent something like this [controversy] from happening in the future\" by requiring \"the birth certificate up front and take [the issue] off the table\". His initiative was strongly criticized by Florida Democrats, who accused Posey of trying to \"fan the rumors on the extreme fringe of the Republican Party\" and \"pandering to the right wing\".\n\nSatirist Stephen Colbert also mocked Posey for not addressing rumors that he was \"part alligator\"; Posey responded by commenting that there was \"no reason to say that I'm the illegitimate grandson of an alligator\". He also stated that there was now \"no reason to question\" that Obama is a U.S. citizen.\n\nPosey's bill gained the support of twelve Republican co-sponsors - Representatives John R. Carter, Kenny Marchant, Louie Gohmert, John Culberson, Randy Neugebauer, Mike Conaway and Ted Poe (all from Texas), Rep. John Campbell (California), Rep. Bob Goodlatte (Virginia), Rep. Dan Burton (Indiana), Rep. Marsha Blackburn (Tennessee), and Rep. Trent Franks (Arizona). Republican Senator Tom Coburn (Oklahoma) also stated that he would \"likely support it\" if the bill reached the Senate, saying that Obama \"meets the constitutional requirement to be president,\" and that \"It is each state's responsibility to determine the eligibility of those running for federal office.\" H.R. 1503 was never voted upon by either house of Congress and died when the 111th Congress adjourned at the end of 2010.\n\nOn July 27, 2009, the House of Representatives passed a resolution commemorating the 50th anniversary of Hawaii's statehood. The resolution, containing language recognizing Hawaii as President Obama's birth state, passed by a vote of 378 to 0.\nSome of the cosponsors of the Posey bill, namely Campbell, Carter and Marchant, did not cast a vote. The House has 435 members when all seats are filled.\n\nLegislation introduced in April 2011 by state Senator Slade Blackwell would require any candidate running for an office with an age requirement to present their birth certificate.\n\nOn April 19, 2010, the Arizona House of Representatives voted in favor of a rider to require presidential candidates \"to submit documents proving they meet the constitutional requirements to be president\". If enacted, the law would give the Arizona Secretary of State the power to omit a candidate's name on the state ballot if there is \"reasonable cause\" to believe that the documents are not adequate proof of the requirements for office. The rider passed the Arizona House of Representatives on a 31–29 vote, with only Republicans voting in favor and some Republicans joining with Democrats to oppose. The bill then went to the Arizona State Senate, which declined to vote on the bill before the April 2010 end of legislative session, the deadline for the bill's passage.\n\nIn reaction to the proposed legislation, \"The Arizona Republic\" referred to it as a \"nutty birther bill\" that would make Arizona seem to be a place where \"any crackpot whim can be enshrined in law\". Arizona Republican State Representative Cecil Ash, who supported the bill, appeared on CNN's \"Anderson Cooper 360°\" to discuss the bill. Ash stated that he believed President Obama was an American citizen, but there has been \"a lot of controversy over the issue\". Cooper then likened the people who believe there is a birth certificate controversy to people who believe the moon is made of cheese and asked Ash if he knew the moon was not made of cheese without investigation. Ash responded in the affirmative.\n\nIn January 2011, similar legislation again was introduced in the Arizona House of Representatives. On April 14, 2011 the Arizona legislature passed a bill requiring presidential and vice presidential candidates to show the Arizona secretary of state proof that they are natural-born citizens. Such proof could be either a long-form birth certificate or at least two other forms of accepted proof, such as an early baptismal certificate, circumcision certificate or hospital birth record. On April 18, Governor Jan Brewer vetoed the bill.\n\nA state legislator introduced a similar bill in 2012. In March 2012, a senate committee voted favorably on a bill that would require candidates for the presidency and vice presidency to submit an affidavit attesting to their eligibility to serve.\n\nLegislation introduced in April 2011 by 11 Republican state legislators would require any elected official to provide proof of citizenship before being sworn in. The bill was not voted out of committee.\n\nIn January 2011, Connecticut state Sen. Michael McLachlan introduced legislation that would mandate presidential and vice presidential candidates to provide their birth certificates for their names to be placed on the ballot. The bill did not make it out of committee.\n\nIn April 2010, Georgia state representative Mark Hatfield introduced legislation that would require presidential and vice presidential candidates to submit an affidavit \"stating the candidate's citizenship and age and shall append to the affidavit documents that prove the candidate is a natural born citizen, prove the candidate's age, and prove that the candidate meets the residency requirements for President of the United States.\"\n\nIn February 2011, Hatfield again introduced similar legislation, but it was not voted out of committee.\n\nIn May 2010, Hawaii enacted a law allowing the state to ignore requests for information if deemed \"duplicative or substantially similar\" to a prior query.\n\nIn January 2011, Hawaii state representative Rida Cabanilla introduced legislation allowing the Hawaii Department of Health to provide upon request a copy of the birth certificate of a \"Person of civic prominence\" (that is, a candidate or officeholder for which United States citizenship is required), and to charge the requesting party a surcharge of $100.\n\nIn January 2011, Indiana state senator Mike Delph introduced legislation requiring presidential candidates to file a certified copy of a birth certificate along with additional documentation to be on the Indiana ballot. The legislation was not voted out of committee.\n\nIn March 2011, Iowa state Senator Kent Sorenson introduced legislation that would require presidential or vice presidential candidates to submit certified copies of their birth certificates, which would be available for public inspection.\n\nIn February 2012, a committee in the Kansas House of Representatives approved a bill that would require candidates for state and federal offices to provide proof of citizenship.\n\nLegislation introduced in April 2011 by state Senator A.G. Crowe and state Representative Alan Seabaugh would require candidates for federal office to file a birth certificate. The legislation was not voted out of committee.\n\nState representative Richard Cebra introduced legislation requiring candidates to submit a birth certificate and government-issued identification.\n\nLegislation introduced in April 2011 by state Representative Mike Callton would require presidential candidates to submit their birth certificates.\n\nFifteen Republican members of the Missouri House of Representatives sponsored an amendment to the Missouri Constitution in March 2009 that would require \"candidates who are required by the Constitution of the United States to be natural born citizens\" to provide a birth certificate to the Missouri Secretary of State to confirm their eligibility. A certificate of live birth would not be accepted. Failure to comply would result in the candidate being deemed ineligible to stand. The only political offices to be affected would be the President and Vice President, which are the only two positions for which there is a specific constitutional citizenship requirement. The proposed amendment is part of a \"voter's bill of rights\", which would serve \"as a defense against corruption, fraud, and tyranny\". Political commentators interpreted the proposal as being \"aimed at advancing the claims of the fringe movement that doubts President Barack Obama's eligibility to serve as president\". The proposed amendment, House Joint Resolution No. 34, was subsequently withdrawn.\n\nIn January 2011, Republican State Representative Lyle Rowland introduced legislation that would require \"proof of identity and proof of United States citizenship\" for all presidential and vice-presidential candidates.\" In May 2011, the requirement that presidential candidates present proof of natural born citizenship was added but later trimmed from an omnibus election law reform bill.\nRowland introduced similar legislation in 2012. On March 29, 2012, the House of Representatives passed legislation that would require presidential or vice presidential candidates to prove their U.S. citizenship before appearing on the ballot. The bill then passed a Missouri senate committee.\n\nA number of Missouri Republican politicians have continued to support claims and litigation on the citizenship issue. State Representatives Cynthia L. Davis, Timothy W. Jones and Casey Guernsey have committed to participating as plaintiffs in a lawsuit filed in Missouri challenging Obama's citizenship.\nState Representative Edgar G. H. Emery told reporters in July 2009 that he \"questions Obama's citizenship and ... believes his alleged lack of a legitimate birth certificate ignores the Constitution.\"\n\nIn January 2011, Montana state representative Bob Wagner introduced legislation requiring all candidates for federal office file affidavits with the Montana secretary of state verifying that they are qualified; presidential candidates would be required to provide the state with a valid copy of their birth certificates.\n\nProposed legislation introduced in January 2011 would have required a presidential or vice presidential candidate to provide proof of birth that includes the names of the candidate's parents, and proof that the parents were United States citizens at the time of the candidate's birth; the candidate would also have to swear of affirm, \"I was born a citizen of the United States of America and was subject exclusively to the jurisdiction of the United States of America, owing allegiance to no other country at the time of my birth. On the day I was born, both my birth mother and birth father were citizens of the United States of America.\" The proposed legislation failed to be voted out of committee.\n\nLegislation introduced in March 2011 would have required presidential candidates to present their birth certificates when filing their nomination papers; the proposed enactment date was changed to 2013 and thus would not have affected the 2012 presidential elections. The proposed legislation was not voted out of committee.\n\nSimilar legislation proposed in 2012 also was not voted out of committee.\n\nOklahoma Republican state Representative Mike Ritze proposed a bill in December 2008, requiring any candidate for public office in Oklahoma to show proof of citizenship. Ritze declared that he \"does not believe Obama submitted an authentic copy of his birth certificate\".\nHe also unsuccessfully approached Oklahoma Republican Senators Tom Coburn and James Inhofe to persuade them to mount a challenge to Obama's confirmation by Congress.\nThe bill, House Bill 1329, was criticized by \"The Norman Transcript\" newspaper as \"an outright attempt to embarrass President Barack Obama whose own citizenship was questioned, mostly by those pajama guerrillas trolling on the Internet\".\nThe bill gained a 23–20 vote in favor, but failed to meet the 25-vote threshold required to pass.\n\nIn February 2011, similar legislation was reintroduced in the Oklahoma state senate.\n\nLegislation introduced in April 2011 by state Representative Daryl Metcalfe would require candidates for president and vice president to provide proof of citizenship to qualify for a spot on the state ballot.\n\nIn Tennessee, four Republican state Representatives—Stacey Campfield, Glen Casada, Frank S. Niceley and Eric H. Swafford—announced in February 2009 that they would be joining a legal action to force Obama to release his birth certificate and prove his citizenship. Casada, the Tennessee House Republican caucus chairman, said that he believes Obama has further proof of eligibility, and would like him to make it available: \"Yes, people may say, you're just chasing some conspiracy theory ... [but] it's a simple act on his part to just do, and we're done—move on.\" The alternative newspaper \"Nashville Scene\" described Swafford as joining a \"wacky legal action\" and quoted Tennessee house Democrat Larry Miller as saying: \"What is the mentality of these kind of people who continuously make these kind of goofy statements? It's embarrassing.\" Attorney Orly Taitz of California said she planned to file the suit, representing the Defend Our Freedoms Foundation.\n\nLegislation proposed in January 2011 would require anyone running for elected office to furnish a birth certificate before being declared an eligible candidate.\" It failed to be voted out of a subcommittee.\n\nIn January 2016, two Democratic legislators proposed barring the Secretary of State from placing on the ballot any presidential or vice-presidential candidate who was not a natural-born citizen.\n\nOn November 16, 2010, Texas state representative Leo Berman introduced legislation requiring any candidate for president or vice president running in Texas to submit to the Texas Secretary of State an \"original birth certificate indicating that the person is a natural-born United States citizen.\" In introducing the bill, Berman said that the \"bill is necessary because we have a president whom the American people don't know whether he was born in Kenya or some other place.\" If signed into law, the bill would take effect September 1, 2011, about 6 months ahead of the Texas presidential primaries for the 2012 presidential election.\n\nBy inserting the word \"original\" into the bill, Berman addressed concerns by conspiracy theorists that other bills that do not contain that word are \"flawed\". His bill would therefore specifically disallow the use of the reproduced certificate that Obama has used since June 2008 as evidence. The legality of such a bill is unknown, as reproduced certificates are generally accepted by government agencies as proof of birth.\n\n"}
{"id": "34483244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34483244", "title": "United States v. Fricosu", "text": "United States v. Fricosu\n\nUnited States v. Fricosu, 841 F.Supp.2d 1232 (D. Col 2012), is a federal criminal case in Colorado that addressed whether a person can be compelled to reveal his or her encryption passphrase or password, despite the U.S. Constitution's Fifth Amendment protection against self-incrimination. On January 23, 2012, judge Robert E. Blackburn held that under the All Writs Act, Fricosu is required to produce an unencrypted hard drive.\n\nFricosu's attorney claimed it was possible she did not remember the password. A month later, Fricosu's ex-husband handed the police a list of potential passwords. One of the passwords worked, rendering the self-incrimination issue moot.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation filed an amicus brief in support of Fricosu.\n\nFricosu subsequently entered a plea agreement in 2013, meaning that the question of a defendant's right to resist mandatory decryption will not be addressed by a higher court until such time as a future case addressing the same issue arises.\n\n"}
