{"id": "205170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205170", "title": "Aimee Semple McPherson", "text": "Aimee Semple McPherson\n\nAimee Semple McPherson (\"Aimée\", in the original French; October 9, 1890 – September 27, 1944), also known as Sister Aimee or simply Sister, was a Canadian-American Pentecostal evangelist and media celebrity in the 1920s and 1930s, famous for founding the Foursquare Church. McPherson has been noted as a pioneer in the use of modern media, because she used radio to draw on the growing appeal of popular entertainment in North America and incorporated other forms into her weekly sermons at Angelus Temple, one of the first megachurches.\n\nIn her time she was the most publicized Protestant evangelist, surpassing Billy Sunday and her other predecessors. She conducted public faith healing demonstrations before large crowds; testimonies conveyed tens of thousands of people healed. McPherson's articulation of the United States as a nation founded and sustained by divine inspiration continues to be echoed by many pastors in churches today.\n\nNews coverage sensationalized her misfortunes with family and church members; particularly inflaming accusations she had fabricated her reported kidnapping, turning it into a national spectacle. McPherson's preaching style, extensive charity work and ecumenical contributions were a major influence to Charismatic Christianity in the 20th century.\n\nMcPherson was born Aimee Elizabeth Kennedy in the upstairs room of the family farmhouse outside the village of Salford, southeast of Ingersoll in Oxford County Ontario, Canada, to James Morgan and Mildred Ona (Pearce) Kennedy (1871–1947). She had early exposure to religion through her mother, Mildred (known as \"Minnie\") who worked with the poor in Salvation Army soup kitchens.\n\nAs a child she would play \"Salvation Army\" with her classmates, and at home she would gather a congregation with her dolls, giving them a sermon. As a teenager, McPherson strayed from her mother's teachings by reading novels and going to movies and dances, activities which were strongly disapproved of by both the Salvation Army and the religion of her father, James Kennedy, a Methodist. Novels, though, made their way into the Methodist church library and with guilty delight, McPherson would read them. At the movies, she recognized some of her fellow Methodist church members. She learned too, at a local dance she attended, that her dancing partner was a Presbyterian minister. In high school, she was taught Charles Darwin's \"Theory of Evolution\". She began to quiz visiting preachers and local pastors about faith and science, but was unhappy with the answers she received. She wrote to the Canadian newspaper, \"Family Herald and Weekly Star\", questioning why taxpayer-funded public schools had courses, such as evolution, which undermined Christianity. This was her first exposure to fame, as people nationwide responded to her letter. While still in high school, after her Pentecostal conversion, McPherson began a crusade against the concept of evolution, beginning a lifelong passion.\n\nWhile attending a revival meeting in December 1907, Aimee met Robert James Semple, a Pentecostal missionary from Ireland. There, her faith crisis ended as she decided to dedicate her life to God and made the conversion to Pentecostalism as she witnessed the Holy Spirit moving powerfully.\n\nAt that same revival meeting, Aimee became enraptured not only by the message that Robert Semple gave, but also with Robert. She decided to dedicate her life to both God and Robert, and after a short courtship, they were married on August 12, 1908, in a Salvation Army ceremony, pledging never to allow their marriage to lessen their devotion to God, affection for comrades, or faithfulness in the Army. The pair's notion of \"Army\" was very broad, encompassing much more than just the Salvation Army. Robert supported them as a foundry worker and preached at the local Pentecostal mission. Together, they studied the Bible, Aimee claiming Robert taught her all she knew; though other observers state she was far more knowledgeable than she let on. After a few months they moved to Chicago and became part of William Durham's Full Gospel Assembly. Durham earlier had visited the mission where the Azusa Street Revival was taking place, returned and applied its teachings. Under Durham's tutelage, Aimee was discovered to have a unique ability in the interpretation of speaking in tongues, translating with stylistic eloquence.\nAfter embarking on an evangelistic tour to China, both contracted malaria. Robert also contracted dysentery, of which he died in Hong Kong. Aimee recovered and gave birth to their daughter, Roberta Star Semple, as a 19-year-old widow. On board a ship returning to the United States, Aimee Semple started a Sunday school class, then held other services, as well, oftentimes mentioning her late husband in her sermons; almost all passengers attended.\n\nShortly after her recuperation in the United States, Semple joined her mother Minnie working with the Salvation Army. While in New York City, she met Harold Stewart McPherson, an accountant. They were married on May 5, 1912, moved to Providence, Rhode Island, and had a son, Rolf Potter Kennedy McPherson, in March 1913.\n\nDuring this time, McPherson felt as though she denied her \"calling\" to go preach. After struggling with emotional distress and obsessive–compulsive disorder, she would fall to weep and pray. She felt the call to preach tug at her even more strongly after the birth of Rolf. Then in, 1914, she fell seriously ill, and McPherson states she again heard the persistent voice, asking her to go preach while in the holding room after a failed operation. McPherson accepted the voice's challenge, and she suddenly opened her eyes and was able to turn over in bed without pain. One spring morning in 1915, her husband returned home from the night shift to discover McPherson had left him and taken the children. A few weeks later, a note was received inviting him to join her in evangelistic work.\nHer husband later followed McPherson to take her back home though changed his mind after he saw her preaching to a crowd. Describing his wife as \"radiant, more lovely than he had ever seen her,\" he joined her in evangelism. Their house in Providence was sold and he joined her in setting up tents for revival meetings and even did some preaching. Throughout their journey, food and accommodations were uncertain, as they lived out of the \"Gospel Car\". Her husband, in spite of initial enthusiasm, wanted a life that was more stable and predictable. Eventually, he returned to Rhode Island and around 1918 filed for separation. He petitioned for divorce, citing abandonment; the divorce was granted in 1921.\n\nShe married again on September 13, 1931, to actor and musician David Hutton, followed by much drama, after which she fainted and fractured her skull. While McPherson was away in Europe to recover, she was angered to learn Hutton was billing himself as \"Aimee's man\" in his cabaret singing act and was frequently photographed with scantily clad women. Hutton's much-publicized personal scandals were damaging the Foursquare Gospel Church and their leader's credibility with other churches. McPherson and Hutton separated in 1933 and divorced on March 1, 1934. McPherson later publicly repented of the marriage, as wrong from the beginning, for both theological and personal reasons and therefore rejected nationally known gospel singer Homer Rodeheaver, a more appropriate suitor, when he eventually asked for her hand in 1935.\n\nWhile married to Robert Semple, the two moved to Chicago and became part of William Durham's Full Gospel Assembly. There, Aimee was discovered to have a unique ability in the interpretation of glossolalia, translating with stylistic eloquence the otherwise indecipherable utterances of speaking in tongues. Unable to find fulfillment as a housewife, in 1913, McPherson began evangelizing and holding tent revivals across the Sawdust Trail in the United States and Canada.\n\nAfter her first successful visits, she had little difficulty with acceptance or attendance. Eager converts filled the pews of local churches which turned many recalcitrant ministers into her enthusiastic supporters. Frequently, she would start a revival meeting in a hall or church and then have to move to a larger building to accommodate the growing crowds. When no buildings were suitable, she set up a tent, which was often filled past capacity.\n\nShe wanted to create the enthusiasm a Pentecostal meeting could provide, with its \"Amen Corner\" and \"Halleluiah Chorus\", but also to avoid its unbridled chaos as participants started shouting, trembling on the floor, and speaking in tongues, all at once. McPherson organized her meetings with the general public in mind and yet did not wish to quench any who suddenly came into \"the Spirit\". To this, she set up a \"tarry tent or room\" away from the general area for any who suddenly started speaking in tongues or display any other Holy Ghost behavior by which the larger audience might be put off.\n\nIn 1916, McPherson embarked on a tour of the Southern United States in her \"Gospel Car\", and again later, in 1918, with her mother, Mildred Kennedy. Mildred was an important addition to McPherson's ministry and managed everything, including the money, which gave them an unprecedented degree of financial security. Their vehicle was a 1912 Packard touring car emblazoned with religious slogans. Standing on the back seat of the convertible, McPherson preached sermons over a megaphone. On the road between sermons, she would sit in the back seat typing sermons and other religious materials. She first traveled up and down the eastern United States, then went to other parts of the country.\n\nBy 1917, she had started her own magazine, \"Bridal Call\", for which she wrote many articles about women's roles in religion; she portrayed the link between Christians and Jesus as a marriage bond. Along with taking seriously the religious role of women, the magazine contributed to transforming Pentecostalism from a movement into an ongoing American religious presence.\n\nWhile McPherson was traveling for her evangelical work, she arrived in Baltimore, where she was first \"discovered\" by the newspapers in 1919, after a day of conducting evangelistic services at the Lyric Opera House. Baltimore became one of the pivotal points for her early career. The crowds, in their religious ecstasy, were barely kept under control as they gave way to manifestations of \"the Spirit\". Moreover, her alleged faith healings now became part of the public record, and attendees began to focus on that part of her ministry over all else. McPherson also considered the Baltimore Revival an important turning point, not only for her ministry, \"but in the history of the outpouring of the Pentecostal power\".\n\nIn late 1918, McPherson came to Los Angeles, a move many at the time were making for better opportunities. Minnie Kennedy, her mother, rented the largest hall they could find, the 3,500-seat Philharmonic Auditorium (known then as Temple Auditorium). People waited for hours to get in, and McPherson could hardly reach the pulpit without stepping on someone. Afterwards, grateful attendees of her Los Angeles meetings built a home for her family and her, which included everything from the cellar to a canary bird. At this time, Los Angeles had become a popular vacation spot. Rather than touring the United States to preach her sermons, McPherson stayed in Los Angeles, drawing audiences from a population which had soared from 100,000 in 1900 to 575,000 people in 1920, and often included many visitors.\n\nWearied by constant traveling and having nowhere to raise a family, McPherson had settled in Los Angeles, where she maintained both a home and a church. McPherson believed that by creating a church in Los Angeles, her audience would come to her from all over the country. This, she felt, would allow her to plant seeds of the Gospel and tourists would take it home to their communities, still reaching the masses. For several years, she continued to travel and raise money for the construction of a large, domed church building at 1100 Glendale Blvd. in the Echo Park area of Los Angeles. The church would be named Angelus Temple, reflecting the Roman Catholic tradition of the Angelus bell, calling the faithful to prayer, as well as its reference to the angels. Not wanting to take on debt, McPherson located a construction firm which would work with her as funds were raised \"by faith\". She started with $5,000. The firm indicated it would be enough to carve out a hole for the foundation.\n\nMcPherson began a campaign in earnest and was able to mobilize diverse groups of people to help fund and build the new church. Various fundraising methods were used, such as selling chairs for Temple seating at US $25 apiece. In exchange, \"chair-holders\" got a miniature chair and encouragement to pray daily for the person who would eventually sit in that chair. Her approach worked to generate enthusiastic giving and to create a sense of ownership and family among the contributors.\n\nRaising more money than she had hoped, McPherson altered the original plans, and built a \"megachurch\" that would draw many followers throughout the years. The endeavor cost contributors around $250,000 in actual money spent. However, this price was low for a structure of its size. Costs were kept down by donations of building materials and volunteer labor. McPherson sometimes quipped when she first got to California, all she had was a car, ten dollars and a tambourine. Enrollment grew exceeding 10,000, and was advertised to be the largest single Christian congregation in the world. According to church records, Angelus Temple received 40 million visitors within the first seven years.\n\nMcPherson intended the Angelus Temple as both a place of worship and an ecumenical center for persons of all Christian faiths to meet and build alliances. A wide range of clergy and laypeople consisted of Methodists, Baptists, the Salvation Army, Presbyterians, Episcopalians, Adventists, Quakers, Roman Catholics, Mormons, and even secular civic leaders, who came to the Angelus Temple. They were welcomed and many made their way to her podium as guest speakers. Eventually, even Rev. Robert P. Shuler, a once-robust McPherson critic, was featured as a guest preacher.\n\nBecause Pentecostalism was not popular in the United States during the 1920s, McPherson avoided the label. She practiced speaking-in-tongues and faith healing within her services, but kept the former to a minimum in sermons to appease mainstream audiences. Discarded medical fittings from persons faith-healed during her services, which included crutches, wheelchairs, and other paraphernalia, were gathered for display in a museum area. As evidence of her early influence by the Salvation Army, McPherson adopted a theme of \"lighthouses\" for the satellite churches, referring to the parent church as the \"Salvation Navy\". This was the beginning of McPherson working to plant Foursquare Gospel churches around the country.\n\nMcPherson strove to develop a church organization which could not only provide for the spiritual, but also the physical needs of the distressed. Though she fervently believed and preached the imminent return of Jesus Christ, she had no idea of how soon that Second Coming might be. Two thoughts pervaded the mind of most devout Pentecostals of the time, \"Jesus is coming, therefore how can I get ready,\" and \"how can I help others to get ready?\"\n\nFor McPherson, part of the answer was to mobilize her Temple congregation and everyone she could reach through radio, telephone, and word of mouth to get involved in substantial amounts of charity and social work. \"True Christianity is not only to be good but to do good,\" she preached. The Charities and Beneficiary Department collected donations for all types of humanitarian relief to include a Japanese disaster, as well as a German relief fund. Men released from prison were found jobs by a \"brotherhood\". A \"sisterhood\" was created, as well, sewing baby clothing for impoverished mothers. Branch churches elsewhere in the country were likewise encouraged to follow the Angelus Temple's example. Even people who considered McPherson's theology almost ridiculous helped out because they saw her church as the best way to assist their community.\n\nIn June 1925, after confirming reports of an earthquake in Santa Barbara, McPherson immediately left the parsonage and interrupted a broadcast at a nearby radio station. She took over the microphone from the startled singer and requested food, blankets, clothing, or whatever listeners could give for emergency supplies to assist nearby Santa Barbara. As the Red Cross met to discuss and organize aid, McPherson's second convoy had already arrived at the troubled city. In 1928, after a dam failed and the ensuing flood left up to 600 dead in its wake, McPherson's church led the relief effort. Later, in 1933, an earthquake struck and devastated Long Beach. McPherson quickly arranged for volunteers to be on the scene with blankets, coffee, and doughnuts.\nDrawing from her childhood experience with the Salvation Army, in 1927, McPherson opened a commissary at Angelus Temple which was virtually the only place in town a person could get food, clothing, and blankets with no questions asked. It was open 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and became active in creating soup kitchens, free clinics, and other charitable activities as the Great Depression wore on. She fed an estimated 1.5 million people. When the government shut down the free school-lunch program, McPherson took it over. Her policy of giving first and investigating afterward \"alleviated suffering on an epic scale\".\n\nMcPherson got the fire and police departments to assist in distribution. Doctors, physicians, and dentists were persuaded to staff her free clinic that trained 500 nurses to help treat children and the elderly. She encouraged individuals and companies of all types to donate supplies, food, cash, or labor. To prevent the power from being turned off to homes of overdue accounts during the winter, a $2,000 cash reserve was set up with the utility company. Many people, who otherwise would have nothing to do with the Angelus Temple, would receive a call from McPherson, and then loot their mansion closets or company stores for something to give. The Yellow Cab Company donated a large building and, in the first month, 80,000 people received meals there.\n\nLaboring under a sign \"Everybody and anybody is somebody to Jesus\", volunteer workers filled commissary baskets with an assortment of food and other items, as well as Foursquare Gospel literature, and handed them out. Even a complete kit designed to care for newborn babies was available. A reporter wrote he had always thought the breadline was a \"drab colorless scar on our civilization\", but of the Angelus Temple commissary, he observed, was \"the warm garment of sympathy and Christian succor.\" \n\nEstablishing an employment bureau, as well, McPherson desired to help \"the discouraged husband, the despondent widow, or the little mother who wants extra work to bear the burden of a sick husband\". She expected everyone in her temple to be involved, 'let us ever strive to lighten our brother's load and dry the tears of a sister; race, creed or status make no difference. We are all one in the eyes of the Lord.\" She encouraged members to think of the commissary as widening \"the spirituality of the whole church\".\nIn 1932, the commissary was raided by police, allegedly to locate a still used to make brandy out of donated apricots. Some sauerkraut and salad oil were purportedly observed leaking from their respective storage areas. As a consequence, the commissary was briefly shut down. The press got involved and the public demanded an investigation. Since no one really wanted to stall the temple's charity efforts, the acceptable solution was to replace the immediate management. The staff was let go and students from her Foursquare Gospel Church's LIFE Bible College filled in. The newspaper media, generally cynical of the Temple and in particular of McPherson, recognized \"the excellent features of that organization's efforts\" and that \"the faults of the Angelus Temple are outweighed by its virtues.\" McPherson issued a statement declaring, \"They have clashed loud their cymbals and blown their trumpets about a still and some sauerkraut... our work is still before us. If...anybody abused his trust, it must not happen again.\"\n\nAs McPherson tried to avoid administrative delays in categorizing the \"deserving\" from the \"undeserving,\" her temple commissary became known as one of the region's most effective and inclusive aid institutions. Few soup kitchens lasted more than several months, but McPherson's remained open. Even as she transformed herself into a fashionable blonde Hollywood socialite, McPherson's vigor and practicality for social activism did not change; she loved organizing big projects. A 1936 survey indicated the Angelus Temple assisted more family units than any other public or private institution in the city. Because her programs aided nonresidents, as well, such as migrants from other states and Mexico, she ran afoul of California state regulations. Though temple guidelines were later officially adjusted to accommodate those policies, helping families in need was a priority, regardless of their place of residence.\n\nActor Anthony Quinn recalls:\n\nThis was all during the height of the Depression, when hunger and poverty permeated America. Many Mexicans were terrified of appealing for county help because most of them were in the country illegally. When in distress, they were comforted by the fact that they could call one of Aimee's branches at any time of the night. There, they would never be asked any of the embarrassing questions posed by the authorities. The fact that they were hungry or in need of warm clothing was enough. No one even asked if they belonged to Aimee's church or not.\n\nIn August 1925 and away from Los Angeles, McPherson decided to charter a plane so she would not miss giving her Sunday sermon. Aware of the opportunity for publicity, she arranged for at least 2000 followers and members of the press to be present at the airport. The plane failed after takeoff and the landing gear collapsed, sending the nose of the plane into the ground. McPherson boarded another plane and used the experience as the narrative of an illustrated Sunday sermon called \"The Heavenly Airplane\". The stage in Angelus Temple was set up with two miniature planes and a skyline that looked like Los Angeles. In this sermon, McPherson described how the first plane had the devil for the pilot, sin for the engine, and temptation as the propeller. The other plane, however, was piloted by Jesus and would lead one to the Holy City (the skyline shown on stage). The temple was filled beyond capacity.\n\nOn another occasion, she described being pulled over by a police officer, calling the sermon \"Arrested for Speeding\". Dressed in a traffic cop's uniform, she sat in the saddle of a police motorcycle, earlier placed on the stage, and revved the siren. One author in attendance, insisted she actually drove the motorcycle, with its deafening roar, across the access ramp to the pulpit, slammed on the brakes, then raised a white-gloved hand to shout \"Stop! You're speeding to Hell!\" Since McPherson gave some of her sermons more than once, and with variations, the possibility existed both versions might be true.\n\nMcPherson employed a small group of artists, electricians, decorators, and carpenters, who built the sets for each Sunday's service. Religious music was played by an orchestra. McPherson also worked on elaborate sacred operas. One production, \"The Iron Furnace\", based on the book of Exodus, told of God's deliverance as the Israelites fled slavery in Egypt. Some Hollywood movie stars even assisted with obtaining costumes from local studios. The cast was large, perhaps as many as 450 people, but so elaborate and expensive, it was presented only one time. Rehearsals for the various productions were time-consuming and McPherson \"did not tolerate any nonsense.\" Though described as \"always kind and loving\", McPherson demanded respect regarding the divine message the sacred operas and her other works were designed to convey.\n\nEven though McPherson condemned theater and film as the devil's workshop, its secrets and effects were co-opted. She became the first woman evangelist to adopt the whole technique of the moving picture star. McPherson desired to avoid the dreary church service where, by obligation, parishioners would go to fulfill some duty by being present in the pew. She wanted a sacred drama that would compete with the excitement of vaudeville and the movies. The message was serious, but the tone more along the lines of a humorous musical comedy. Animals were frequently incorporated and McPherson, as a once farm girl, knew how to handle them. McPherson gave up to 22 sermons a week and the lavish Sunday night service attracted the largest crowds, extra trolleys and police were needed to help route the traffic through Echo Park to and from Angelus Temple. To finance the Angelus Temple and its projects, collections were taken at every meeting, often with the admonishment, \"no coins, please\".\n\nMcPherson preached a conservative gospel, but used progressive methods, taking advantage of radio, movies, and stage acts. Advocacy for women's rights was on the rise, including women's suffrage through the 19th Amendment. She attracted some women associated with modernism, but others were put off by the contrast between her different theories. By accepting and using such new media outlets, McPherson helped integrate them into people's daily lives. McPherson used the media to her advantage and became the \"first modern celebrity preacher.\"\nThe battle between fundamentalists and modernists escalated after World War I, with many modernists seeking less conservative religious faiths. Fundamentalists generally believed their religious faith should influence every aspect of their lives. McPherson sought to eradicate modernism and secularism in homes, churches, schools, and communities. She developed a strong following in what McPherson termed \"the Foursquare Gospel\" by blending contemporary culture with religious teachings. McPherson was entirely capable of sustaining a protracted intellectual discourse as her Bible students and debate opponents will attest. But she believed in preaching the gospel with simplicity and power, so as to not confuse the message. Her distinct voice and visual descriptions created a crowd excitement \"bordering on hysteria.\"\n\nThe appeal of McPherson's 30 or so revival events from 1919 to 1922 surpassed any touring event of theater or politics ever presented in American history. \"Neither Houdini nor Teddy Roosevelt had such an audience nor PT Barnum.\" Her one- to four-week meetings typically overflowed any building she could find to hold them. She broke attendance records recently set by Billy Sunday and frequently used his temporary tabernacle structures in which to hold some of her meetings. Her revivals were often standing-room only. One such revival was held in a boxing ring, with the meeting before and after the match. Throughout the boxing event, she walked about with a sign reading \"knock out the Devil\". In San Diego, California, the city called in the National Guard and other branches of the armed forces to control a revival crowd of over 30,000 people. She became one of the most photographed persons of her time. She enjoyed the publicity and quotes on almost every subject were sought from her by journalists.\n\nMcPherson's ability to draw crowds was also greatly assisted by her apparently successful faith healing presentations. According to Nancy Barr Mavity, an early McPherson biographer, almost by accident, the evangelist discovered when she laid hands on sick or injured persons, they got well. Mavity further wrote, describing the healing power \"beyond her conscience \"[sic]\" control\" and \"profoundly troubling\" however a phenomenon familiar to the psychiatrist although \"none the less \"[sic]\" mysterious.\" \n\nDuring a 1916 revival meeting in Corona, Long Island, New York, a young woman in the advanced stages of rheumatoid arthritis was brought to the altar by friends. McPherson would have preferred to pray with her privately. However, the woman insisted upon immediate prayer. McPherson laid hands on her and prayed. Before the gathered parishioners, the woman walked out of the church without crutches. McPherson's reputation as a faith healer rapidly became known and the sick and injured people came to her by the tens of thousands.\n\nThe Faith Healing Ministry of Aimee Semple McPherson was extensively written about in the news media and was a large part of her early career legacy. No one has ever been credited by secular witnesses with anywhere near the numbers of faith healings attributed to McPherson, especially during the years 1919 to 1922. Over time, though, she almost withdrew from the faith-healing aspect of her services, since it was overwhelming other areas of her ministry. Scheduled weekly and monthly healing sessions nevertheless remained highly popular with the public until her death in 1944.\n\nEventually, McPherson's church evolved into its own denomination and became known as the International Church of the Foursquare Gospel (usually referenced as the \"Foursquare Church\"). The term \"Foursquare\" represents the \"Full Gospel\" theological concept, and refers to the four defining beliefs of Pentecostalism: the nature of Jesus Christ's character is that he was Savior, baptizer with the Holy Spirit, healer, and soon-coming King. The four main beliefs were: the first being Christ's ability to transform individuals' lives through the act of salvation; the second focused on a holy baptism which includes receiving power to glorify and exalt Christ in a practical way; the third was divine healing, newness of life for both body and spirit; and the fourth was gospel-oriented heed to the premillennial return of Jesus Christ.\n\nMcPherson published the weekly \"Foursquare Crusader\", along with her monthly magazine, \"Bridal Call\". She began broadcasting on radio in the early 1920s. On a Sunday morning in April 1922, the Rockridge Radio Station in Oakland CA; offered her some radio time and she became the first woman to preach a sermon over the \"wireless telephone.\" With the opening of Foursquare Gospel-owned KFSG on February 6, 1924, she became the second woman granted a broadcast license by the Department of Commerce, the federal agency that supervised broadcasting in the early 1920s.\n\nMcPherson racially integrated her tent meetings and church services. On one occasion, as a response to McPherson's ministry and Angelus Temple being integrated, Ku Klux Klan members were in attendance, but after the service, hoods and robes were found on the ground in nearby Echo Park. She is also credited with helping many Hispanic ministries in Los Angeles.\n\nMcPherson traveling about the country holding widely popular revival meetings and filling local churches with converts was one thing, settling permanently into their city caused concern among some local Los Angeles churches. Though she shared many of their fundamentalist beliefs, such as divine inspiration of the Bible, the classical Trinity, virgin birth of Jesus, historical reality of Christ's miracles, bodily resurrection of Christ, and the atoning purpose of his crucifixion; the presentation of lavish sermons, and an effective faith-healing ministry presented by a female divorcee whom thousands adored and about whom newspapers continuously wrote, was unexpected. Moreover, the Temple, especially the women, had a look and style uniquely theirs. They would emulate McPherson's style and dress, and a distinct Angelus Temple uniform came into existence, a white dress with a navy blue cape thrown over it. Men were more discreet, wearing suits. Her voice, projected over the powerful state-of-the-art KFSG radio station and heard by hundreds of thousands, became the most recognized in the western United States.\n\nHer illustrated sermons attracted criticism from some clergy members because they thought it turned the Gospel message into mundane theater and entertainment. Divine healing, as McPherson called it, was claimed by many pastors to be a unique dispensation granted only for Apostolic times. Rival radio evangelist Reverend Robert P. Shuler published a pamphlet entitled \"McPhersonism\", which purported that her \"most spectacular and advertised program was out of harmony with God's word.\" Debates such as the Bogard-McPherson debate in 1934 drew further attention to the controversy, but none could really argue effectively against McPherson's results.\n\nThe new developing Assemblies of God denomination, Pentecostal as McPherson was, for a time worked with her, but they encouraged separation from established Protestant faiths. McPherson resisted trends to isolate as a denomination and continued her task of coalition-building among evangelicals. McPherson worked hard to attain ecumenical vision of the faith, and while she participated in debates, avoided pitched rhetorical battles that divided so many in Christianity. She wanted to work with existing churches on projects and to share with them her visions and beliefs.\n\nAssisting in her passion was the speedy establishment of LIFE Bible College adjacent to the Angeles Temple. Ministers trained there were originally intended to go nationally and worldwide to all denominations and share her newly defined \"Foursquare Gospel.\" A well-known Methodist minister, Frank Thompson, who never had the Pentecostal experience, was persuaded to run the college, and he taught the students the doctrine of John Wesley. McPherson and others, meanwhile, infused them with Pentecostal ideals. For about a year, Antonia Frederick Futterer, suggested by Los Angeles Times as the inspiration for Steven Spielberg's film character, Indiana Jones, was also a facility member. McPherson's efforts eventually led Pentecostals, which were previously unconventional and on the periphery of Christianity, into the mainstream of American evangelicalism.\n\nBy early 1926, McPherson had become one of the most charismatic and influential women and ministers of her time. Her fame equaled, to name a few, Charles Lindbergh, Johnny Weissmuller, Jack Dempsey, Babe Ruth, Ty Cobb, Knute Rockne, Bobby Jones, Louise Brooks, and Rudolph Valentino. She was a major American phenomenon, who along with some other high-profile preachers of the time, unlike Hollywood celebrities, could be admired by their adoring public, \"without apparently compromising their souls.\"\nAccording to Carey McWilliams, she had become \"more than just a household word: she was a folk hero and a civic institution; an honorary member of the fire and police departments; a patron saint of the service clubs; an official spokesman for the community on problems grave and frivolous.\" She was influential in many social, educational and political areas. McPherson made personal crusades against anything that she felt threatened her Christian ideals, including the drinking of alcohol and teaching evolution in schools.\n\nMcPherson became a strong supporter of William Jennings Bryan during the 1925 Scopes trial, in which John Scopes was tried for illegally teaching evolution at a Dayton, Tennessee, school. Bryan and McPherson had worked together in the Angelus Temple and they believed Darwinism had undermined students' morality. According to \"The New Yorker\", McPherson said, evolution \"is the greatest triumph of Satanic intelligence in 5,931 years of devilish warfare, against the Hosts of Heaven. It is poisoning the minds of the children of the nation.\" She sent Bryan a telegram saying, \"Ten thousand members of Angelus Temple with her millions of radio church membership send grateful appreciation of your lion-hearted championship of the Bible against evolution and throw our hats in the ring with you.\" She organized \"an all-night prayer service, a massive church meeting preceded by a Bible parade through Los Angeles.\"\n\nWhile her mother Mildred Kennedy was a registered Democrat, no one was certain of McPherson's registration. She endorsed Herbert Hoover over Franklin D. Roosevelt, but enthusiastically threw her support behind the latter and his social programs when he was elected into office. She was a patron of organized labor, preaching a gangster's money was \"no more unclean than the dollars of the man who amasses his millions from underpaid factory workers\". She was more cautious, though, when labor strikes resulted in violent uprisings. She saw in them the possible activities of Communism, which sought to infiltrate labor unions and other organizations. McPherson intensely disliked Communism and its derivatives as they sought to rule without God; their ultimate goal, she believed, was to remove Christianity from the earth. McPherson's opinion of fascism fared no better; its totalitarian rule was wrongly justified by claiming to represent the power of God.\n\nMcPherson did not align herself consistently with any broad conservative or liberal political agenda. Instead, she explained if Christianity occupied a central place in national life, and if the components of God, home, school and government were kept together, everything else would fall into place. \"Remove any of these,\" she warned, \"and [civilization] topples, crumbles.\" Current Foursquare Gospel Church leaders qualify the evangelist's views: \"McPherson's passion to see America sustained in spiritual health, which compelled her quest to see the Church influence government, must be interpreted in light of the political and religious climate of the 1920s, 30s, and 40s. It is not accurate to draw a parallel between today's extreme fundamentalist, right-wing Christianity and the style or focus of Sister McPherson.\" She was also among the first prominent Christian ministers to defend the establishment of a Jewish homeland in Palestine. She related that when Christ returns, the Jews would receive him, their suffering will end, \"and they will establish at Jerusalem a kingdom more wonderful than the world has known.\"\n\nThe reported kidnapping of Aimee Semple McPherson caused a frenzy in national media and changed her life and the course of her career. After disappearing in May, 1926, she reappeared in Mexico five weeks later, stating she had been held for ransom in a desert shack there. The subsequent grand-jury inquiries over her reported kidnapping and escape precipitated continued public interest in her future misfortunes.\n\nOn May 18, 1926, McPherson disappeared from Ocean Park Beach, in Santa Monica, CA, Presuming she had drowned, Searchers combed the beach and nearby area, but could not locate her body. Immediately, McPherson sightings occurred around the county often in widely divergent locations many miles apart on the same day. The Angelus Temple received calls and letters claiming knowledge of McPherson, including demands for ransom. After several weeks of unpromising leads, Mildred Kennedy, regarded the messages as hoaxes, believing her daughter dead.\n\nJust as the Angeles Temple was preparing for a service commemorating McPherson's death, on June 23, Kennedy received a phone call from Douglas, Arizona. Her distraught daughter was alive resting in a Douglas hospital, and was relating her story to officials. \n\nMcPherson stated, at the beach, she had been approached by a couple who wanted her to pray over their sick child. Walking with them to their car, she suddenly was shoved inside. A cloth laced with some type of drug was held against her face, causing her to pass out. Eventually, the revivalist was moved to a small shack in the Mexican desert. When her captors were away on errands, McPherson escaped out a window. \n\nShe then traveled through the desert for around 11–13 hours across an estimated distance of 20 miles (32 km); and reached Agua Prieta, Sonora, a Mexican border town at around 1:00 am. Collapsing exhausted near a house, the evangelist was finally taken by locals to adjacent Douglas.\n\nThe turnout at her return to Los Angeles was greeted by 30,000–50,000 people, more than for almost any other personage. The parade back to the temple even elicited a greater turnout than President Woodrow Wilson's visit to Los Angeles in 1919, attesting to her popularity and the growing influence of mass media entertainment. Already incensed over McPherson's influential public stance on evolution and the Bible, most of the Chamber of Commerce and some other civic leaders, together with many Los Angeles area churches; saw the event as a gaudy display. To head off developing rumors her disappearance was not the result of a kidnapping, McPherson, against the advice of her mother, who thought the press would continue to unfavorably exploit the story; presented her complaint in court.\n\nWhile various speculations were proffered as to the reason for McPherson's disappearance, the Los Angeles prosecution settled on the contention McPherson ran off with ex-employee, Ormiston. She was accused of staying with him in a California seaside cottage he rented in a resort town prior to her May 18 disappearance. After leaving the cottage at the end of May, for the next three weeks, the pair traveled elsewhere and remained hidden. Then, around June 22, Ormiston drove McPherson to Mexico, dropped her off 3 miles outside of nearby Agua Prieta where she walked the remaining distance and presented herself to a resident there. \n\nMcPherson maintained all along, without changing anything in her story, that she was taken, held captive by the kidnappers, and escaped as she originally described. Defense witnesses corroborated her assertions or McPherson herself demonstrated how the disputed parts were plausible\n\nIssues of trial by media and court of public opinion were apparent, as much of the proclaimed evidence against McPherson came from reporters who passed it on to the police. Evidence and testimonies were hotly debated by an evenly divided public. Secrecy of the California grand jury proceedings were ignored by both sides as the Los Angeles prosecution freely passed on any new developments to the press, while the evangelist used her radio station to broadcast her side of the story. \n\nOn November 3, the case was to be moved to jury trial set for mid-January, 1927. If convicted, the counts added up to a maximum prison time of 42 years. However, the prosecution's case developed serious credibility issues. Witnesses changed their testimonies and evidence often had suspicious origins or was mishandled and lost while in custody Finally, on January 2, 1927, Ormiston identified another woman as his female companion who stayed with him at the resort town seaside cottage. All charges against McPherson and associated parties were dropped by the court for the lack of evidence on January 10, 1927.\nRegardless of the court's decision, months of unfavorable press reports fixed in much of the public's mind a certainty of McPherson's wrongdoing. The bulk of the investigation against McPherson was funded by Los Angeles-area newspapers at an estimated amount of $500,000.\n\nVarious influential individuals offered their opinions on the inquiry. The Reverend Robert P. Shuler stated, \"Perhaps the most serious thing about this whole situation is the seeming loyalty of thousands to this leader in the face of her evident and positively proven guilt.\" \n\nH.L. Mencken, noted journalist, satirist, cultural critic, and scholar and an ideological opponent of McPherson, opposite each other in the 1925 Scopes \"Monkey\" trial, unexpectedly came to McPherson's defense. He wrote that since many of that town's residents acquired their ideas \"of the true, the good and the beautiful\" from the movies and newspapers, \"Los Angeles will remember the testimony against her long after it forgets the testimony that cleared her.\"\n\nNumerous allegations of illicit love affairs were often directed against McPherson. Suspected lovers generally denied involvement. For example, Kenneth Ormiston, a married man with a small son, could have profited immensely from an exposé about himself and McPherson. That the two had a good working relationship and were friendly with each other was not disputed. During the 1926 kidnapping grand jury trial, reporters and investigators tried to link him amorously to McPherson. Ormiston told newspapers his name connected in such a way to the evangelist \"was a gross insult to a noble and sincere woman.\"\n\nAlarmed by her rapidly changing style of dress and involvement with Hollywood and its \"worldly\" lifestyle, in 1929, an Angelus Temple official hired detectives to shadow McPherson. Through her windows, the detectives frequently saw McPherson staying up until the early morning hours composing songs, drafting sacred operas, and scribbling diagrams of her illustrated sermons. They were looking for evidence of her indiscretions, but found nothing. No confirmation of adulterous misconduct, with perhaps exception of her third marriage as a violation of Church tenets, was ever presented. McPherson herself, aware of numerous accusations leveled at her throughout her career, responded only to a small fraction of them, conveying the only thing she had time for was \"preaching Jesus\".\n\nPosthumously, unsubstantiated allegations of extramarital affairs continued to emerge, this time by those who stated to have been her partner, claims not mentioned by them or others while she was still alive. Canadian journalist Gordon Sinclair implied such a claim in his 1966 autobiography, \"Will the Real Gordon Sinclair Please Stand Up.\" Sinclair stated he worked on a story with McPherson and during one of those times in 1934, the incident purportedly occurred. Sinclair alluded to a sexual dalliance with McPherson one afternoon along with some gin and ginger.\n\nThirty years after her death, another claim by comedian Milton Berle, in a 1974 autobiography, alleges a brief affair with the evangelist. In his book, titled \" Milton Berle: An Autobiography\", Berle asserts he met McPherson at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles where both were doing a charity show. Biographer Matthew Avery Sutton commented, \"Berle, a notorious womanizer whose many tales of scandalous affairs were not always true, claimed to have had sex with McPherson on this and one other occasion\", both during a year when McPherson was often ill and bedridden. Sutton noted that Berle's story of a crucifix in McPherson's bedroom was not consistent with the coolness of Pentecostal-Catholic relations during that era. Another book by Milton Berle, \"Laughingly Yours\", which had autobiographical content that was published in 1939 while McPherson was still alive, did not have this claim.\n\nAuthor Raymond L. Cox states: \"Mrs. McPherson's daughter, Roberta Salter of New York, told me, 'Mother never had an apartment in her life.' By 1931, she kept herself securely chaperoned to guard against such allegations.\" During 1930, the evangelist's appearances and whereabouts can be traced almost every day. She was incapacitated with illness a full five months of that year, and there is no place on her schedule as reported in her publications and church and travel records for the benefit Berle alleged. Besides, Roberta also told Cox, \"Mother never did a benefit in her life. She had her own charities\".\n\nFollowing her heyday in the 1920s, McPherson carried on with her ministry, but fell out of favor with the press. They once dubbed her the \"miracle worker\" or \"miracle woman\", reporting extensively on her faith-healing demonstrations, but now were anxious to relay every disturbance in her household to the headlines. Her developing difficulties with her mother, Mildred Kennedy, were starting to take the front page. Yet, McPherson emerged from the kidnapping nationally famous. As much as 10% of the population in Los Angeles held membership in her Temple. For a time, movie studios competed with each other offering McPherson long-term contracts.\n\nBelieving that talking pictures had the potential to transform Christianity, McPherson explored Hollywood culture and appeared in newsreels alongside other famous individuals such as Mary Pickford, Frances Perkins, and Franklin D. Roosevelt. She lost weight, cut and dyed her hair, began to wear makeup and jewelry, and became stylish and well-attired, leading one critic to determine that McPherson \"can out-dress the Hollywood stars\". The solicitation of fame, justified to draw audiences to her and hence to Christ, was more than some in her church organization could accept. They yearned for Sister Aimee \"in the old time dress,\" referring to her previous \"trademarked\" uniform of a navy cape over a white servant's dress, both purchased inexpensively in bargain basements. Other members, though, loved it, and her Angelus Temple services were as popular as ever and remained so throughout her life. Unless parishioners arrived at a service early, frequently they could not get in; all seats were taken. Now that she could afford it, McPherson thought, as well, she wanted her apparel and display to be the best she could present to Jesus.\n\nIn early 1927, McPherson immediately set out on a \"vindication tour\", visiting various cities and taking advantage of the publicity her kidnapping story created to preach the Gospel. Her visit to New York in fox-furs and a finely trimmed yellow suit was noted in the society pages. She even visited nightclubs, including a famous speakeasy in New York: Texas Guinan's Three Hundred Club on 54th Street. While McPherson sipped water at her table, Guinan asked if she would speak a few words to the patrons. Delighted, McPherson stood and addressed the jazzed and boozy crowd:\n\nBehind all these beautiful clothes, behind these good times, in the midst of your lovely buildings and shops and pleasures, there is another life. There is something on the other side. \"What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?\" With all your getting and playing and good times, do not forget you have a Lord. Take Him into your hearts. \n\nThe unexpected speech that did not judge, and had a conciliatory tone between them and the Divine, earned a thoughtful moment of silence from the crowd, then an applause that went on for much longer than the speech took. The revelers were invited to hear her preach at the Glad Tidings Tabernacle on 33rd Street. The visits to speakeasies and nightclubs added to McPherson's notoriety; newspapers reported heavily on them, rumors erroneously conveyed she was drinking, smoking and dancing; and her mother along with some other church members, did not understand McPherson's strategy of tearing down barriers between the secular and religious world, between the sinner and the saved.\n\nIn the summer of 1927, Mildred Kennedy, McPherson's mother, left the Angelus Temple. In an attempt to curtail her daughter's influence and officially transfer more power to herself, Kennedy initiated a staff-member \"vote of confidence\" against McPherson, but lost. The two had heatedly argued over management policies and McPherson's changing personal dress and appearance. For similar reasons, 300 members of the choir left, as well. The choir could be replaced; however, Kennedy's financial and administrative skills had been of crucial importance in growing McPherson's ministry from tent revivals to satellite churches and maintaining its current activities in the Temple. A series of less able management staff replaced Kennedy, and the Temple became involved in various questionable projects such as hotel building, cemetery plots, and land sales. Accordingly, the Angelus Temple plummeted deep into debt. In response to the difficulties, Kennedy came back in late 1929, but because of continued serious disagreements with McPherson, tendered her resignation on July 29, 1930. The following month, McPherson suffered a physical and nervous breakdown. For 10 months, she was absent from the pulpit, diagnosed, in part, with acute acidosis.\n\nWhen she gained strength and returned, she introduced with renewed vigor her moving \"Attar of Roses\" sermon, based on the Song of Solomon, with its Rose of Sharon as the mystical Body of Christ. While journalists attending her Sunday illustrated sermons assumed her language was fit only for slapstick or sentimental entertainment, scholars who have studied her work for Bible students and small prayer groups, found instead the complex discourse of neoplatonic interpretation. For example, she had hundreds of pages written about the Old Testament book, the Song of Solomon, each \"different from one another as snowflakes\".\n\nThe October 10–18, 1931, revival in Boston started out sluggishly and many predicted its failure. A Los Angeles newspaper ran headlines of the flop and expected more of the same in the days to come. On opening night, McPherson spoke to fewer than 5,000 persons in the 22,000-seat sports arena, and safety pins and rubber bands abundantly cluttered the collection baskets. The city had large populations of Unitarians, Episcopalians, and Catholics, venerable denominations traditionally hostile to a Pentecostal or fundamentalist message. Afterwards, from her hotel room, McPherson, known to be a sports fan, asked for the afternoon's World Series scores and a \"Boston Herald\" reporter sent her a copy of the Sunday edition. The next day, the \"Bring Back the Bible to Boston\" campaign's tone shifted as McPherson took greater control and attendance climbed sharply.\n\nA reporter took note of McPherson's stage presence, different from any other evangelist who spoke there, gesturing with her white Bible for effect, as well as preaching. Answering him as to why she presented a dramatic sermon, she stated, \"Our God is a dramatic God...rolling back the Red Sea...Elijah on the mountaintop...the crucifixion, the resurrection, His ascension... tongues of fire on the day of Pentecost.\" The final day of afternoon and evening services had 40,000 persons attending, the stadium was full, and more than 5,000 had to be turned away. A total of 160,000 people attended the meetings, breaking historic attendance records of any nine days of revival services in Boston.\n\nHer revival in New York City was not very fruitful, as her sensationalistic reputation preceded her. The third marriage to David Hutton, rumored romances, and her kidnapping was what its press and citizens wanted to hear about. Therefore, after a brief pause in New York and Washington, D.C., she went on to Philadelphia and other cities, traveling to 46 of them in 21 states, speaking to as much as 2% of the entire population of the United States. A full crew of musicians, scene designers, and costumers accompanied McPherson. In this, her last national revival tour, between September 1933 and December 20, 1934, two million persons heard 336 sermons. Many more were reached by 45 radio stations.\n\nThe \"Boston Evening Traveler\" newspaper reported:\n\nAimee's religion is a religion of joy. There is happiness in it. Her voice is easy to listen to. She does not appeal to the brain and try to hammer religion into the heads of her audience. Rather, she appeals to the hearts of her hearers. She radiates friendliness. She creates an atmosphere that is warming. She is persuasive, rather than forceful; gracious and kindly, rather than compelling. Fundamentally she takes the whole Bible literally, from cover to cover.\n\nNevertheless, she was not a radical literalist. In an informal meeting with some Harvard students, McPherson told them that Genesis allowed great latitude of interpretation, and that neither she nor the Bible insisted the world was created only 6,000 years ago. In another meeting with students, she heard their assertion the teachings of Christ have outlived their usefulness; education, science and cold reasoning were the new saviors of the world. Thus compelled, McPherson decided to travel and look at the world with new eyes. In 1935, McPherson embarked on a worldwide six-month discovery tour to examine the social, religious, and economic climates of many countries. At one point, it was earlier reported she wanted to study the women's movement in connection with the campaign for the independence of India, and was anxious to have \"a chat with Mahatma Gandhi\". She received an invitation from him and he gave her a sari made from threads woven from his simple spinning wheel. Impressed with Gandhi and his ideas, McPherson thought he might secretly lean towards Christianity, his dedication possibly coming from catching \"a glimpse of the cleansing, lifting, strengthening power of the Nazarene\".\n\nOther highlights included traversing barefoot, in Myanmar, the lengthy stone path to the Great Pagoda, a gold-covered 325-ft tiered tower enshrining relics of four Buddhas, which caught and reflected the rays of the sun, a \"vision of breath-taking glory.\" She heard Benito Mussolini speak in Italy, and fretted war would again ensue. In the rain, at Verdun, France, she sat on a wrecked military vehicle in mournful contemplation of the hundreds of thousands who died on the still-uncleared battlefield. White, bleached bones of the fallen poked out of the earth, and nearby, laborers toiled carefully at their dangerous iron harvest, collecting old munitions for disposal.\n\nIn mid-1936, a delegation who had been involved with the 1906 Azusa Street Mission Revivals, including Emma Cotton, asked if they could use the Angelus Temple for their 30th Anniversary Celebration. The original mission building was demolished and its land unavailable. African American Evangelist Emma Cotton and McPherson therefore organized a series of meetings which also marked her enthusiastic reidentification with the Pentecostal movement. McPherson's experiments of Hollywood celebrity ambitions coexisting with her ministry were not as successful as she hoped. Alliances with other church groups were failing or no longer in effect, and she searched for ways to start again. Therefore, she looked to her spiritual origins and allowed for the possibility of reintroducing even the more alarming aspects of the Pentecostal experience into her public meetings. Temple officials were concerned the Azusa people might bring in some \"wildfire and Holy Rollerism\". McPherson indicated she would turn hand springs with them as needed to see the power of God manifest.\n\nThe Azusa Street Revival commemoration events brought numbers of black leaders to her pulpit. The original attendees of the Azusa revivals filled the Angelus Temple along with every ethnic minority, \"the saints who were once smelted together with the fires of Pentecost\" were \"being reunited, rewelded, and rejuvenated.\" McPherson recommitted herself to the dissemination of \"classic Pentecostalism\", and her concern now was that Foursquaredom was in danger of becoming too \"churchy\". For the first time since the Temple opened, McPherson began to publicly deliver some of her messages in tongues. McPherson traversed the line between cold formality and wildfire and now decided \"it was easier to cool down a hot fanatic than to resuscitate a corpse.\" Future meetings to celebrate the Azusa Street Revivals included guest Charles H. Mason, a founder of the Churches of God in Christ. Mason, an Azusa leader, was also one of the most significant African American religious figures in United States history and was frequently hosted at the Angelus Temple.\n\nAlso in 1936, McPherson reassigned staff responsibilities in an effort to address the Temple's financial difficulties. This, together with other unresolved issues, accelerated simmering tensions among various staff members. Rumors circulated that \"Angel of Broadway\", charismatic evangelist Rheba Crawford Splivalo, who had been working extensively with McPherson for several years, planned to take the Angelus Temple from her. McPherson asked Splivalo to \"leave town\". In the course of the staff controversy, McPherson's lawyer issued a strongly worded press release that upset Roberta Star Semple, McPherson's daughter, and led her to initiate a $150,000 lawsuit against him for slander. Splivalo also sued McPherson for $1,080,000 because of alleged statements calling her a Jezebel and a Judas and \"unfit to stand in the Angelus Temple pulpit\".\n\nThe two lawsuits filed by Semple and Splivalo were not related, but McPherson did not see it that way. She saw both as part of the Temple takeover plot. McPherson's mother was also involved and sided with Semple, her granddaughter, making unflattering statements about McPherson to the press. In these charged circumstances, McPherson's defense of herself and her lawyer in a public trial was dramatic and theatrical. She testified tearfully with swoons and faints about how her daughter conspired with others against her. Her daughter's lawyer, meanwhile, mocked McPherson by imitating her mannerisms and making faces at her. The trial did much to estrange McPherson from her daughter. The judge ruled for Semple, giving a $2,000 judgment in her favor. Semple then moved to New York. Splivalo and the Temple settled their suit out of court for the \"cause of religion and the good of the community.\"\n\nWith Kennedy, Semple, and Splivalo gone, the Temple lost much of its talented leadership. However, McPherson found a competent and firm administrator in Giles Knight, who was able to bring the Temple out of debt, dispose of the 40 or so lawsuits, and eliminate the more spurious projects. He sequestered McPherson, allowed her to receive only a few personal visitors, and carefully regulated her activities outside the Temple. This period was one of unprecedented creativity for McPherson. No longer distracted by waves of reporters, reams of lawsuits, and innumerable individuals demanding her attention, she became very accomplished in her illustrative sermon style of Gospel preaching. The irreligious Charlie Chaplin would secretly attend her services, enjoying her sermons. She later met and consulted with Chaplin on ways to improve her presentations. McPherson, who earlier blared across newspaper headlines as many as three times a week, in one alleged scandal or another, had her public image much improved. Her adversary, Reverend Robert P. Shuler, who previously attacked her by radio, magazine, pulpit, and pamphlet, proclaimed \"Aimee's missionary work was the envy of Methodists\". He also expressed his support of her Foursquare Church application admittance into National Association of Evangelicals for United Action in 1943.\n\nHer efforts at making interracial revival a reality at Angelus Temple continued. She welcomed blacks into the congregation and pulpit. While race riots burned Detroit in 1943, McPherson publicly converted the notorious black former heavyweight champion Jack Johnson on the Temple stage and embraced him \"as he raised his hand in worship\".\n\nPacifism, which was a component of Pentecostalism, was evaluated by the Foursquare Gospel Church in the 1930s with official statements and documents which were further revised by McPherson. A press quote attributed to McPherson, in reference to Mahatma Gandhi, appears to explore the concept, \"I want to incorporate the ideals of India with my own...\" Additionally, Clinton Howard, the chairman of the World Peace Commission, was invited to speak at the Angelus Temple. In 1932, she promoted disarmament, \"If the nations of the world would stop building warships and equipping armies[,] we would be all but overwhelmed with prosperity.\"\n\nFoursquare leaders, alarmed at rapid changes of technology, especially sea and air, which challenged the United States' isolation and security, decided to officially draw up an amendment inclusive of varied opinions in regards to military service. The idea that one could trust to bear arms in a righteous cause, as well as believing the killing of others, even in connection to military service, would endanger their souls; both views were acceptable.\n\nMcPherson kept a canny eye on the international events leading up to the Second World War, citing the probability of a much more terrible conflict than the one that passed 20 years earlier. In a sermon, she described a recently conquered country which had the Cross and other religious symbols in their schools removed; in their place was a portrait of a certain man. Instead of prayer, their school day began with a distinctive salute to this person. The destructive apocalypse of John the Apostle, with its expected high civilian casualties, followed by the Second Coming of Christ, it seemed, was at hand. Even if submarines were hiding in the depths of the sea, they could not escape the terror that would befall them.\n\nAll-night prayer meetings were held Friday nights at the Angelus Temple, starting in 1940, the year when Germany was overrunning Belgium, the Netherlands, and France. She asked other Foursquare churches around the country to follow suit. She sent President Franklin Roosevelt's secretary, Mr. Stephen Early, as well as some other leaders, an outline of her plans. Prayer, to her, was even more powerful than the implements of war. Various officials expressed their appreciation, including the governor of California. Early passed on a reply back from Roosevelt: a message of thanks for her work. A month later, Roosevelt declared a National Day of Prayer to \"beseech the Ruler of the Universe to bless our Republic.\" Foursquare leaders thought McPherson may have inspired it, and perhaps the President of the United States was looking to her for spiritual leadership of the nation.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II, McPherson rejected the Christian pacifism of many in the Pentecostal movement, including those of her own church. Her mind was set on doing what ever it took to assist the United States in winning the war, \"It is the Bible against \"Mein Kampf\". It is the Cross against the Swastika. It is God against the antichrist of Japan...This is no time for pacifism.\" The Angelus Temple itself became a visible symbol of home front sacrifice for the war effort. If necessary, it was announced, the building could be used for an air raid shelter. The distinctive white dome was painted over with black paint and its beautiful stained-glass windows were covered up. The Temple, like other buildings in the city, had to have any opening or window that could emit visible light at night, covered. One evening in May 1942, to advertise the need to conserve gasoline and rubber, McPherson herself drove a horse and buggy to the Angelus Temple.\n\nRubber and other drives were organized, and unlimited airtime on her radio station, KFSG, was given to the Office of War Information. She asked parishioners and other listeners to donate two hours a day for such tasks as rolling bandages \"so that a soldier's bandage could be changed... And let us give our blood to help every one.\" Money was raised to provide local military bases with comfortable furnishings and radios. \"Newsweek\" published an article about McPherson, \"The World's Greatest Living Minister\", on July 19, 1943, noting she had collected 2,800 pints of blood for the Red Cross; servicemen in her audience are especially honored, and the climax of her church services is when she reads the National Anthem.\n\nMcPherson gave visiting servicemen autographed Bibles. She observed they often had no religious affiliation and did not even own a Bible. She wrote:\n\nWhat a privilege it was to invite the servicemen present in every Sunday night meeting to come to the platform, where I greeted them, gave each one a New Testament, and knelt in prayer with them for their spiritual needs, and God's guidance and protection on their lives. Later, when the altar call would be given, many of these same servicemen would make another trip to the platform publicly to receive Jesus Christ as their personal savior.\n\nShe insulted Adolf Hitler and Hideki Tōjō, and became involved in war bond rallies. Pershing Square's Victory House in Los Angeles never saw a bigger crowd. McPherson sold $150,000 worth of bonds in one hour on June 20, 1942, breaking all previous records, then repeated the performance again on July 4, 1944. The U.S. Treasury awarded her a special citation. The Army made McPherson an honorary colonel.\n\nHer wartime activities included sermons that linked the church and American patriotism. McPherson spoke to the men in uniform of her belief that military action against the Axis powers was long overdue. And more so than in almost any war previously, she felt that if they did not prevail, churches, homes, and everything precious and dear to the Christian would absolutely be destroyed.\n\nMcPherson's embrace of the total war strategy of the United States left her open to some criticism. The line between the church as an independent moral authority monitoring government became blurred, perceived instead, as complicit with that same governance. Wrongs being done to Japanese Americans through their internment in relocation camps were being overlooked, for example. And she refused to allow her denomination to support Christians who remained committed pacifists. Even if conscientious objectors were willing to participate in noncombat roles, more was needed. Church members and leaders had to be willing to take up arms and fight for the United States. The pacifist clause which earlier existed was, by her proposal, voted upon and eliminated by Foursquare Gospel Church leaders.\n\nOn September 26, 1944, McPherson went to Oakland, California, for a series of revivals, planning to preach her popular \"Story of My Life\" sermon. When McPherson's son went to her hotel room at 10:00 the next morning, he found her unconscious with pills and a half-empty bottle of capsules nearby. She was dead by 11:15. It was later discovered she previously called her doctor that morning to complain about feeling ill from the medicine, but he was in surgery and could not be disturbed. She then phoned another doctor who referred her to yet another physician. However, McPherson apparently lost consciousness before the third could be contacted.\n\nThe autopsy did not conclusively determine the cause of McPherson's death. She had been taking sleeping pills following numerous health problems – including \"tropical fever\". Among the pills found in the hotel room was the barbiturate Seconal, a strong sedative which had not been prescribed for her. It was unknown how she obtained them.\n\nThe coroner said she most likely died of an accidental overdose compounded by kidney failure. The cause of death is officially listed as unknown. Given the circumstances, there was speculation about suicide, but most sources generally agree the overdose was accidental, as stated in the coroner's report.\n\nForty-five thousand people waited in long lines, some until 2 am, to file past the evangelist, where, for three days, her body lay in state at the Angelus Temple. Within a mile-and-a-half (800 m) radius of the church, police had to double park cars. It later took 11 trucks to transport the $50,000 worth of flowers to the cemetery which itself received more telegrammed floral orders than at any time since Will Rogers' death almost 10 years earlier. A Foursquare leader noted that to watch the long line pass reverently by her casket, and see tears shed by all types of people, regardless of class and color, helped give understanding to the far-reaching influence of her life and ministry.\n\nAn observer, Marcus Bach, who was on a spiritual odyssey of personal discovery, wrote:\n\nRoberta, who had married an orchestra director, flew in from New York. Ma Kennedy was at the grave, Rheba Crawford Splivalo had returned to say that there was never a greater worker for God than Sister. A thousand ministers of the Foursquare Gospel paid their tearful tribute. The curious stood by impressed. The poor who had always been fed at Angelus were there, the lost who had been spirit-filled, the healed, the faithful here they were eager to immortalize the Ontario farm girl who loved the Lord. Here they laid the body of Sister Aimee to rest in the marble sarcophagus guarded by two great angels on Sunrise slope.\n\nMillions of dollars passed through McPherson's hands. However, when her personal estate was calculated, it amounted to $10,000. To her daughter, Roberta, went $2000 the remainder to her son Rolf. By contrast, her mother Mildred Kennedy had a 1927 severance settlement of as much as $200,000 in cash and property; the Foursquare Church itself was worth $2.8 million\n\nMcPherson is buried in Forest Lawn Memorial Park Cemetery in Glendale, California. Following her death, the Foursquare Gospel church denomination was led for 44 years by her son Rolf McPherson. The church claims a membership of over 7.9 million worldwide.\n\nMcPherson's ministry continued to flourish even in the face of scandal. The newspapers which served to propel McPherson to fame and advertise her message, also were used to highlight her faults, real and imagined. Some modern televangelists who transgressed and faded into obscurity because of high-profile news coverage, also learned how quickly modern communication media could hurt as well as help them. After her death, the largely negative aspect of her media image persisted, was cultivated and became the dominant factor in defining McPherson for many in the public today.\n\nReverend Robert P. Shuler, whose caustic view of McPherson softened over the years, wrote he could not figure out why God chose such a person. The flaws he observed in McPherson, were by his opinion, many, yet she ultimately made a positive impact on Christianity, long lasting and enduring. He recognized her appeal was a combination of identifying with the average citizen as well as an ability to explain the gospel in simple, easily understandable terms, drawing them irresistibly to her services:\n\n...while great cathedral churches closed their doors on Sunday night, the crowds pushed through her portals in one ever-flowing stream.\n\nHe saw her legacy extend far beyond the glamor of Hollywood, exerting itself through the thousands of ministers she trained and churches planted throughout the world. McPherson, together with the alliances she made, worked to reshape the evangelical Christian faith, making it relevant to American culture and personally involving for those in the audience.\n\nIn Fresno, California, 1921, nine-year-old Uldine Utley (1912–1995) soon became a Christian revivalist after hearing McPherson's dramatic retelling of the David and Goliath story. With her parents as managers, using the same metaphors as McPherson, referring to Christ as \"the Rose of Sharon\" and invoking \"Bride of Christ\" imagery, she went on to preach to millions of people, the most notable of whom was John Sung, a Chinese scientist who attended one of Utley's meetings and became so inspired that he went back to China, an early mission field for McPherson, and introduced millions to the Christian message. Sung became alternately known as the \"Billy Graham\" or the \"John Wesley\" of China.\n\nDuring the Great Depression years, as a child, Dr. Edwin Louis Cole's mother attended LIFE Bible College and as he grew up, Cole participated in various Angelus Temple activities \"witnessing the miraculous.\" Cole went on to found the Christian Men's Network and influenced many, including Bill McCartney (founder of Promise Keepers), Pat Robertson, John Maxwell (president of Injoy Ministries), Kenneth Copeland, Oliver North, and Chuck Norris.\n\nAccording to biographer Matthew Avery Sutton, in the early 1900s, it was expected that traditional Protestantism would give way to rapidly developing new philosophical ideas and sciences that were being widely taught. McPherson contributed immensely to the forestalling of that predicted inevitability. Liberal Christianity, which enjoyed strong growth starting in the late 19th century, regarded many of the miracles of Jesus to be superstitious interpretations of what actually occurred or metaphors for his teachings. McPherson's faith-healing demonstrations instead gave credence to onlookers that her claim was true: Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. This Bible verse of Hebrews 13:8; as biographer Daniel Mark Epstein noted as per McPherson, meant Jesus still had power and could heal as in ancient times, and the verse become the motto of her Foursquare Gospel Church. Sutton wrote that it was easy for many people to deny a God who did something 1,900 years ago, but large crowds of people were now witness to the blind seeing, the lame walking, and the deaf hearing. Healings at her services, according to Epstein from period news sources, were occurring faster than the journalists could write them down. Crowds clamored to reach her altar to experience a New Testament conversion that transformed many of their lives. Even large portions of the secular public admired her. The old time Gospel message was being dramatically marketed by the most technologically advanced means possible, reconstructing it into something far more interesting and desirable than it was previously.\n\nMcPherson's ecumenical approach assisted Pentecostals in learning how better to explain their faith in the context of historic church doctrine. Mainline churches became exposed to the more unusual gifts of the Holy Spirit. They also benefited by borrowing Pentecostal revival techniques such as more emotive expression, joyful praise worship, and testimonials, forerunning the Charismatic Movement.\n\nMcPherson challenged what was expected from women. Females as preachers and her status as a divorcee with two failed marriages were of particular concern to many of the fundamentalist churches with which she wanted to work, but her success could not be easily ignored. Meanwhile, secular society broadly labeled women as either Victorian ladies or whores, and she bounced from one category to the other. She had her extensive relief charities and along with it, titillating scandals. Atheist Charles Lee Smith remarked publicly of McPherson, just before a debate, that she had an extraordinary mind, \"particularly for a woman\".\n\nHer continual work at church alliance-building finally bore fruit in an official way, though she did not live to see it. Foursquare Gospel Church leaders were at last able to join the National Association of Evangelicals in 1952 and from there helped organize the Pentecostal World Fellowship, which exists to the present day. Pentecostalism which once advocated separatism and was on the fringes of Protestantism, became part of mainstream Christianity.\n\nPopular poet Ogden Nash wrote the following light verse:\n\nSaid Aimee McPherson to Barbara Hutton,<br>\n\"How do you get a marriage to button?\"<br>\n\"You'll have to ask some other person.\"<br>\nSaid Barbara Hutton to Aimee McPherson\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23434659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23434659", "title": "Albanian dialects", "text": "Albanian dialects\n\nThe Albanian language is composed of many dialects, divided into two major groups: Gheg and Tosk.\nThe Shkumbin river is roughly the geographical dividing line, with Gheg spoken north of the Shkumbin and Tosk south of it.\n\nThe characteristics of the Albanian dialects Tosk and Gheg,\nin the treatment of the native and loanwords from other languages, have led to the conclusion that the dialectal split preceded the Slavic migration to the Balkans.\n\nAccording to the view of Demiraj, during the process of dialect split Albanian populations were roughly in their present location, while Eric Hamp notes that \"it must be relatively old, that is, dating back into the post-Roman first millennium. As a guess, it seems possible that this isogloss reflects a spread of the speech area, after the settlement of the Albanians in roughly their present location, so that the speech area straddled the Jireček Line\".\n\nGheg is divided into four sub-dialects: Northwest Gheg, Northeast Gheg, Central Gheg, and Southern Gheg. Northwest Gheg is spoken throughout Montenegro, northwestern Kosovo (west of Peć), Lezhë, northwestern Mirditë, Pukë, and Shkodër. Northeast Gheg is spoken throughout most of Kosovo, Preševo, Has, northeastern Mirditë, Kukës, Tropojë, and northern Tetovo. Central Gheg is spoken in Debar, Gostivar, Krujë, Peshkopi, southern Mirditë, Mat, eastern Struga, Kumanovo, and southern Tetovo. Southern Gheg is spoken in Durrës, northern Elbasan, northern Peqin, Kavajë, northwest Struga, and Tirana. One fairly divergent dialect is the Upper Reka dialect, which is however classified as Central Gheg. There is also a diaspora dialect in Croatia, the Arbanasi dialect. \n\n\nThe transitional dialects are spoken in southern Elbasan (Cërrik, Dumre, Dushk, Papër, Polis, Qafe, Shpat, Sulovë, Thanë), southern Peqin, northwestern Gramsh, extreme southern Kavajë, northern and central Lushnjë, and southern Librazhd (Bërzeshtë, Rrajcë),and Flazian-Falazdim-whish spoken in north of Albania.\n\n\nTosk is divided into five sub-dialects: Northern Tosk, Labërisht, Çam, Arvanitika, and Arbëresh. Northern Tosk is spoken in Berat, Fier, extreme southeastern Elbasan, most of Gramsh, Kolonjë, Korçë, Ohër, Përmet, east of the Vjosë river of Tepelenë, southern Struga (western shore of Lake Ohër), Pogradec, Prespa and northern Vlorë. Lab ((or \"Labërisht\") is spoken in southern Vlorë, Dukat, Himarë, Mallakastër, Delvinë, west of the Vjosë river of Tepelenë, Gjirokastër and Sarandë. Çam is spoken in southern Sarandë (Konispol, Ksamil, Markat, Xarrë) and in parts of northern Greece. Tosk dialects are spoken by most members of the large Albanian immigrant communities of Egypt, Turkey, and Ukraine. Çamërisht is spoken in North-western Greece, while Arvanitika is spoken by the Arvanites in southern Greece, mainly Peloponnese, Attica, Euboea, and the adjacent islands. Arbëresh is spoken by the Arbëreshë, descendants of 15th and 16th century migrants who settled in southeastern Italy, in small communities in the regions of Sicily, Calabria, Basilicata, Campania, Molise, Abruzzi, and Apulia. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25391323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25391323", "title": "Albert T. Patrick", "text": "Albert T. Patrick\n\nAlbert T. Patrick (February 26, 1866 – February 11, 1940) was a lawyer who was convicted and sentenced to death at Sing Sing for the murder of his client William Marsh Rice.\n\nPatrick was born in Texas on February 26, 1866. He was charged with conspiring to murder Rice on 24 September 1900, convicted on 26 March 1902 and sentenced to be electrocuted. His appeals of the conviction — and his filing of a formal complaint against the practice of solitary confinement — delayed the execution of the sentence. In 1906, Governor of New York Frank W. Higgins commuted his sentence to life imprisonment. Doubts about the evidence caused the Governor John Alden Dix to pardon him in 1912. In 1930 he was disbarred and the disbarment was upheld by the New York State Supreme Court. It was said that the conduct of the case during the 12 years between being charged and being pardoned cost Patrick and his friends $162,000. Patrick died in Tulsa, Oklahoma on February 11, 1940.\n"}
{"id": "676940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=676940", "title": "Ancient Hawaii", "text": "Ancient Hawaii\n\nAncient Hawaii is the period of Hawaiian human history preceding the unification in 1810 of the Kingdom of Hawaii by Kamehameha the Great. Researchers had based their estimates of first settlement by Polynesian long-distance navigators from French Polynesia, Tahiti, the Tuamotus and the Samoan Islands sporadically between 300 and 800. In 2010, a study was published based on radiocarbon dating of more reliable samples and it suggests that the islands were settled much later, within a short timeframe, in c. 1219–1266.\n\nThe islands in Eastern Polynesia have been characterized by the continuities among their cultures, and the short migration period would be an explanation of this result. Diversified agroforestry and aquaculture provided sustenance for Native Hawaiian cuisine. Tropical materials were adopted for housing. Elaborate temples (called \"heiau\") were constructed from the lava rocks available.\n\nThe rich natural resources supported a relatively dense population, organized by a ruling class and social system with religious leaders. Captain James Cook made the first known European contact with ancient Hawaiians in 1778. He was followed by many other Europeans and Americans.\n\nThere have been changing views about initial Polynesian discovery and settlement of Hawai'i. Radiocarbon dating in Hawai'i initially indicated a possible settlement as early as 124 AD. Patrick Vinton Kirch's books on Hawaiian archeology, standard textbooks, date the first Polynesian settlements to about 300 with more recent suggestions by Kirch as late as 600. Other theories suggest dating as late as 700 to 800. \nIn 2010 researchers announced new findings using revised, high-precision radiocarbon dating based on more reliable samples than were previously used in many dating studies. This new data indicates that the period of eastern and northern Polynesian colonization took place much later, in a shorter time frame of two waves: the \"earliest in the Society Islands c. 1025 – 1120, four centuries later than previously assumed; then after 70–265 y, dispersal continued in one major pulse to all remaining islands c. 1190 – 1290.\" According to this research, settlement of the Hawaiian Islands took place circa 1219–1266. This rapid colonization is believed to account for the \"remarkable uniformity of East Polynesia culture, biology and language.\"\n\nAccording to Hawaiian mythology, there were other settlers in Hawaii, peoples who were forced back into remote valleys by newer arrivals. They claim that stories about \"menehune\", little people who built \"heiau\" and fishponds, prove the existence of ancient peoples who settled the islands before the Hawaiians.\n\nThe colonists brought along with them clothing, plants (called \"canoe plants\") and livestock and established settlements along the coasts and larger valleys. Upon their arrival, the settlers grew (taro), (banana), (coconut), (breadfruit), and raised (pork), (chicken), and (poi dog), although these meats were eaten less often than fruits, vegetables, and seafood. Popular condiments included (salt), ground kukui nut, (seaweed), and (sugarcane) which was used as both a sweet and a medicine. In addition to the foods they brought, the settlers also acquired (sweet potato), The sweet potato is native to South America. Recently, an analysis of the DNA of 1,245 sweet potato varieties from Asia and the Americas was done. Researchers have found a genetic link that proves the root made it to Polynesia from the Andes around 1100 AD. The findings, published in the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\", offer more evidence that ancient Polynesians may have interacted with people in South America long before the Europeans set foot on the continent.Article and Maps\nThe Pacific rat accompanied humans on their journey to Hawaiʻi. David Burney argues that humans, along with the vertebrate animals they brought with them (pigs, dogs, chickens and rats), caused many native species of birds, plants and large land snails to become extinct in the process of colonization.\n\nEstuaries and streams were adapted into fishponds by early Polynesian settlers, as long ago as 500 AD or earlier. Packed earth and cut stone were used to create habitat, making ancient Hawaiian aquaculture among the most advanced of the original peoples of the Pacific. A notable example is the Menehune Fishpond dating from at least 1,000 years ago, at Alekoko. At the time of Captain James Cook's arrival, there were at least 360 fishponds producing of fish per year. Over the course of the last millennium, Hawaiians undertook \"large-scale canal-fed pond field irrigation\" projects for (taro) cultivation.\n\nAs soon as they arrived, the new settlers built (homes) and (temples). Archaeologists currently believe that the first settlements were on the southern end of the Big Island of Hawaiʻi and that they quickly extended northwards, along the seacoasts and the easily accessible river valleys. As the population increased, settlements were made further inland. At this time, with the islands being so small, the population was very dense. Before European contact, the population had reached somewhere in the range of 200,000 to 1,000,000 people. After contact with the Europeans, however, the population steeply dropped due to various diseases including smallpox.\n\nA traditional town of ancient Hawaii included several structures. Listed in order of importance:\n\n\nAncient Hawaii was a caste society developed from Polynesians. The main classes were:\n\n\nHawaiian youth learned life skills and religion at home, often with grandparents. For \"bright\" children a system of apprenticeship existed in which very young students would begin learning a craft or profession by assisting an expert, or \"kahuna\". As spiritual powers were perceived by Hawaiians to imbue all of nature, experts in many fields of work were known as \"kahuna\", a term commonly understood to mean \"priest\". The various types of \"kahuna\" passed on knowledge of their profession, be it in \"genealogies, or \"mele\", or herb medicine, or canoe building, or land boundaries,\" etc. by involving and instructing apprentices in their work. More formal schools existed for the study of \"hula\", and likely for the study of higher levels of sacred knowledge.\n\nThe \"kahuna\" took the apprentice into his household as a member of the family, although often \"the tutor was a relative\". During a religious \"graduation\" ceremony, \"the teacher consecrated the pupil, who thereafter was one with the teacher in psychic relationship as definite and obligatory as blood relationship.\" Like the children learning from their grandparents, children who were apprentices learned by watching and participating in daily life. Children were discouraged from asking questions in traditional Hawaiian culture.\n\nIn Hawaiian ideology, one does not \"own\" the land, but merely dwells on it. The belief was that both the land and the gods were immortal. This then informed the belief that land was also godly, and therefore above mortal and ungodly humans, and humans therefore could not own land. The Hawaiians thought that all land belonged to the gods (\"akua\").\n\nThe \"alii\" were believed to be \"managers\" of land. That is, they controlled those who worked on the land, the \"makaāinana\". \nOn the death of one chief and the accession of another, lands were re-apportioned—some of the previous \"managers\" would lose their lands, and others would gain them. Lands were also re-apportioned when one chief defeated another and re-distributed the conquered lands as rewards to his warriors. \n\nIn practice, commoners had some security against capricious re-possession of their houses and farms. They were usually left in place, to pay tribute and supply labor to a new chief, under the supervision of a new \"konohiki\", or overseer. \n\nThis system of land tenure is similar to the feudal system prevalent in Europe during the Middle Ages. \n\nThe ancient Hawaiians had the \"ahupuaa\" as their source of water management. Each \"ahupuaa\" had a sub-division of land from the mountain to the sea. The Hawaiians used the water from the rain that ran through the mountains as a form of irrigation. Hawaiians also settled around these parts of the land because of the farming that was done.\n\nReligion held ancient Hawaiian society together, affecting habits, lifestyles, work methods, social policy and law. The legal system was based on religious \"kapu\", or taboos. There was a correct way to live, to worship, and even to eat. Examples of \"kapu\" included the provision that men and women could not eat together (Aikapu religion). Fishing was limited to specified seasons of the year. The shadow of the \"alii\" must not be touched as it was stealing his \"mana\".\n\nThe rigidity of the \"kapu\" system might have come from a second wave of migrations in 1000–1300 from which different religions and systems were shared between Hawaii and the Society Islands. Hawaii would have been influenced by the Tahitian chiefs, the \"kapu\" system would have become stricter, and the social structure would have changed. Human sacrifice would have become a part of their new religious observance, and the \"alii\" would have gained more power over the counsel of experts on the islands.\n\n\"Kapu\" was derived from traditions and beliefs from Hawaiian worship of gods, demigods and ancestral \"mana\". The forces of nature were personified as the main gods of Kū (God of War), Kāne (God of Light and Life), Kanaloa (God of Death), and Lono (God of peace and growth). Well-known lesser gods include Pele (Goddess of Fire) and her sister Hiiaka (Goddess of Dance). In a famous creation story, the demigod Māui fished the islands of Hawaii from the sea after a little mistake he made on a fishing trip. From Haleakalā, Māui ensnared the sun in another story, forcing him to slow down so there were equal periods of darkness and light each day.\n\nThe Hawaiian mystical worldview allows for different gods and spirits to imbue any aspect of the natural world. From this mystical perspective, in addition to his presence in lightning and rainbows, the God of Light and Life, Kāne, can be present in rain and clouds and a peaceful breeze (typically the \"home\" of Lono).\n\nAlthough all food and drink had religious significance to the ancient Hawaiians, special cultural emphasis was placed on \"awa\" (\"kava\") due to its narcotic properties. This root-based beverage, a psychoactive and a relaxant, was used to consecrate meals and commemorate ceremonies. It is often referred to in Hawaiian chant. Different varieties of the root were used by different castes, and the brew served as an \"introduction to mysticism\".\n\nThe four biggest islands, the island of Hawaiʻi, Maui, Kauaʻi and Oʻahu were generally ruled by their own \"aliʻi nui\" (supreme ruler) with lower ranking subordinate chiefs called \"aliʻi ʻaimoku\", ruling individual districts with land agents called \"konohiki\".\n\nAll these dynasties were interrelated and regarded all the Hawaiian people (and possibly all humans) as descendants of legendary parents, Wākea (symbolizing the air) and his wife Papa (symbolizing the earth). Up to the late eighteenth century, the island of Hawaiʻi had been ruled by one line descended from Umi-a-Liloa. At the death of Keaweʻīkekahialiʻiokamoku, a lower ranking chief, Alapainui, overthrew the two sons of the former ruler who were next in line as the island's \"aliʻi nui\".\n\nAssuming five to ten generations per century, the \"Alii ʻAimoku\" dynasties were around three to six centuries old at 1800 AD. The Tahitian settlement of the Hawaiian islands is believed to have taken place in the thirteenth century. The \"alii\" and other social castes were presumably established during this period.\n\nThe ancient Hawaiian economy became complex over time. People began to specialize in specific skills. Generations of families became committed to certain careers: roof thatchers, house builders, stone grinders, bird catchers who would make the feather cloaks of the \"alii\", canoe builders. Soon, entire islands began to specialize in certain skilled trades. Oahu became the chief \"kapa\" (tapa bark cloth) manufacturer. Maui became the chief canoe manufacturer. The island of Hawaii exchanged bales of dried fish.\n\nEuropean contact with the Hawaiian islands marked the beginning of the end of the ancient Hawaii period. In 1778, British Captain James Cook landed first on Kauai, then sailed southwards to observe and explore the other islands in the chain.\n\nWhen he first arrived at Kealakekua Bay in 1779, some of the natives believed Cook was their god Lono. Cook's mast and sails coincidentally resembled the emblem (a mast and sheet of white \"kapa\") that symbolized Lono in their religious rituals; the ships arrived during the \"Makahiki\" season dedicated to Lono.\n\nCaptain Cook was eventually killed during a violent confrontation and left behind on the beach by his retreating sailors. The British demanded that his body be returned, but the Hawaiians had already performed funerary rituals of their tradition.\n\nWithin a few decades Kamehameha I used European warfare tactics and some firearms and cannon to unite the islands into the Kingdom of Hawaii.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1476114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1476114", "title": "Bamileke people", "text": "Bamileke people\n\nThe Bamileke is the native group which is now dominant in Cameroon's West and Northwest Regions. It is part of the Semi-Bantu (or Grassfields Bantu) ethnic group. The Bamileke are regrouped under several groups, each under the guidance of a chief or fon. Nonetheless, all of these groups have the same ancestors as ancient Egyptian and thus share the same history, culture, and languages. They speak a number of related languages from the Bantoid branch of the Niger–Congo language family. These languages are closely related, however, and some classifications identify a Bamileke dialect continuum with seventeen or more dialects.\n\nThe Bamileke are organized under several chiefdom (or fondom). Of these, the fondoms of Bafang, Bafoussam, Bandjoun, Baham, Bangangté, Bawaju, Dschang, and Mbouda are the most prominent. The Bamileke also share much history and culture with the neighbouring fondoms of the Northwest region and notably the Lebialem region of the Southwest region, but the groups have been divided since their territories were split between the French and English in colonial times.\n\nFollowing Ethnologue classification, we can identify 11 different languages or dialects:\n\nVariants of Ghomala' are spoken in most of the Mifi, Koung-Khi, Hauts-Plateaux departments, the eastern Menoua, and portions of Bamboutos, by 260,00 people (1982, SIL). The main fondoms are Baham, Bafoussam, Bamendjou, Bandjoun.\n\nTowards southwest is spoken Fe'fe' in the Upper Nkam division. The main towns include Bafang, Baku, and Kékem.\n\nNda'nda' occupy the western third of the Ndé division. The major settlement is at Bazou.\n\nYemba is spoken by 300,000 or more people in 1992. Their lands span most of the Menoua division to the west of the Bandjoun, with their capital at Dschang. Fokoué is another major settlement.\n\nMedumba is spoken in most of the Ndé division, by 210,000 people in 1991, with major settlements at Bangangté and Tonga.\n\nMengaka, Ngiemboon, Ngomba and Ngombale are spoken in Mbouda.\n\nKwa is spoken between the Ndé and the Littoral region, Ngwe around Fontem in the Southwest region, and Mmuock (language) by the Mmuock people in the Lebialem division of the Southwest region.\n\nBamileke belongs to the Mbam-Nkam group of Grassfields languages, whose attachment to the Bantu division is still disputed. While some consider it a Bantu or semi-Bantu language, others prefer to include Bamileke in the Niger-Congo group. Bamileke Medumba apparently stems from ancient Egyptian and is the root language for many Bamileke variants.\n\nThe Bamileke are the native people of three regions of Cameroon, namely West, North-West and South-West. Though greater part of this people are from the West region, it is estimated that almost half of Bamileke are from the English speaking regions, the majority of which are from the North-West region (there are 123 Bamileke groupings in this region, against 06 in the South-West and 106 in the Western region). The Grassfields area therefore encompasses the West and North-West and small part of the South-West region of Cameroon. Apart from the Bamileke, there are other tribes that are historically more or less linked to the Bamileke, whether by blood or through certain cultural intercourse (Dieudonné Toukam, “Histoire et anthropologie du peuple bamiléké”, 2016), as well as recently settled foreigners (Fulani, Haoussa, Igbo, etc.)\n\nThe Bamileke speak a semi-Bantu language and are related to Bantu peoples. Historically, the Bamun and the Bamileke were united. The founder of this group (Nchare) was the younger brother of the founder of Bafoussam. Bamiléké are a group comprising many tribes. In this group, there are several superficial cultural disparities, including Dschang, Bafang, Bagangté, Mbouda and Bafoussam.\n\nDuring the mid-17th century, the Bamiléké people's forefathers left the North to avoid being forced to convert to Islam. They migrated as far south as Foumban. Conquerors came all the way to Foumban to try to impose Islam on them. A war began, pushing some people to leave while others remained, submitting to Islam. This marks the division between the Bamun and Bamiléké people.\n\nBantu refers to a large, complex linguistic grouping of peoples in Africa. The Cameroon-Bamileke Bantu people cluster encompasses multiple Bantu ethnic groups primarily found in Cameroon, the largest of which is the Bamileke. The Bamileke, whose origins trace to Egypt, migrated from Upper-Egypt in the 9th century and made their last long-lasting settlement in the Tikar region (now Banyo) where they arrived in the 12th century (read D. Toukam, 2016). In the 17th century they migrated further south and west to avoid being forced to convert to Islam. Another reason for migration was to resist enslavement during the Atlantic Slave Trade. Today, a majority of peoples within this people cluster are Christians.\n\nGermany gained control of \"Kamerun\" in 1884. \n\nThe Germans first applied the term \"Bamileke\" to the people as administrative shorthand for the people of the region. \n\nThe Bamileke are very dynamic and have a great sense of entrepreneurship. Thus, they can be found in almost all regions of Cameroon and in the world, mainly as business owners.\n\nIn 1955, the colonial French power banned the Union des Populations du Cameroun (UPC) political party, which was claiming the independence of Cameroon. Following that, the French started an offensive against UPC militants. Much of fighting occurred in the West region, region of the Bamileke. Some tens of thousands of people died in the UPC conflict with French and Cameroonian troops.\n\nThe Bamileke's settlements follow a well-organized and structured pattern. Houses of family members are often grouped together, often surrounded by small fields. Men typically clear the fields, but it is largely women who work them. Most work is done with tools such as machetes and hoes. Staple crops include cocoyams, groundnuts and maize.\n\nBamileke settlement are organized as chiefdoms. The chief, or \"fon\" or \"fong\" is considered as the spiritual, political, judicial and military leader. The Chief is also considered as the 'Father' of the chiefdom. He thus has great respect from the population. The successor of the 'Father' is chosen among his children. The successor's identity is typically kept secret until the fon's death.\n\nThe fon has typically 9 ministers and several other advisers and councils. The ministers are in charge of the crowning of the new fon.\nThe council of ministers, also known as the Council of Notables is called \"Kamveu\". In addition, a \"queen mother\" or \"mafo\" was an important figure for some fons in the past. Below the fon and his advisers lie a number of ward heads, each responsible for a particular portion of the village. Some Bamileke groups also recognise sub-chiefs, or \"fonte\".\n\nTraditional homes are constructed by first erecting a raffia-pole frame into four square walls. Builders then stuff the resulting holes with grass and cover the whole building with mud. The thatched roof is typically shaped into a tall cone. Nowadays, however, this type of construction is mostly reserved for barns, storage buildings, and gathering places for various traditional secret societies. Instead, modern Bamileke homes are made of bricks of either sun-dried mud or of concrete. Roofs are of metal sheeting.\n\nDuring the colonial period, parts of the Bamileke adopted Christianity. Some of them practice Islam toward the border with the Adamawa Tikar and the Bamun. The Bamileke have worn elephant mask for dance ceremonies or funerals.\n\nThe Bamileke trace ancestry, inheritance and succession through the male line, and children belong to the fondom of their father. After a man's death, all of his possessions typically go to a single, male heir. Polygamy (more specifically, polygyny) is practiced, and some important individuals may have literally hundreds of wives. Marriages typically involve a bride price to be paid to the bride's family.\n\nIt is argued that the Bamileke inheritance customs contributed to their success in the modern world:\n\n\"Succession and inheritance rules are determined by the principle of patrilineal descent. According to custom, the eldest son is the probable heir, but a father may choose any one of his sons to succeed him. An heir takes his dead father's name and inherits any titles held by the latter, including the right to membership in any societies to which he belonged. And, until the mid-1960s, when the law governing polygamy was changed, the heir also inherited his father's wives--a considerable economic responsibility. The rights in land held by the deceased were conferred upon the heir subject to the approval of the chief, and, in the event of financial inheritance, the heir was not obliged to share this with other family members. The ramifications of this are significant. First, dispossessed family members were not automatically entitled to live off the wealth of the heir. Siblings who did not share in the inheritance were, therefore, strongly encouraged to make it on their own through individual initiative and by assuming responsibility for earning their livelihood. Second, this practice of individual responsibility in contrast to a system of strong family obligations prevented a drain on individual financial resources. Rather than spend all of the inheritance maintaining unproductive family members, the heir could, in the contemporary period, utilize his resources in more financially productive ways such as for savings and investment. [...] Finally, the system of inheritance, along with the large-scale migration resulting from population density and land pressures, is one of the internal incentives that accounts for Bamileke success in the nontraditional world\".\n\nDonald L. Horowitz also attributes the economic success of the Bamileke to their inheritance customs, arguing that it encouraged younger sons to seek their own living abroad. He wrote in \"Ethnic groups in conflict\": \"Primogeniture among the Bamileke and matrilineal inheritance among the Minangkabau of Indonesia have contributed powerfully to the propensity of males from both groups to migrate out of their home region in search of opportunity\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2773928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2773928", "title": "Barossa German", "text": "Barossa German\n\nBarossa German ( or ) is a dialect of German, predominately spoken in the Barossa Valley region of South Australia. The prominent South Australian writer, Colin Thiele (1920–2006), whose grandparents were German immigrants, referred to \"Barossa-Deutsch\" as: \"that quaintly inbred and hybrid language evolved from a century of linguistic isolation\". It takes its name from the Barossa Valley, where many German people settled during the 19th century. Some words from Barossa German have entered South Australian English.\n\nThe first wave of German settlement in Australia began in 1838. German was first spoken in the Barossa Valley in the 1840s, when German Lutheran settlers from Prussia arrived in the area.\n\nUse of the German language in Australia declined as a result of World War I. Many Germans were interned, and immigration by German people was officially banned between 1914 and 1925. In addition, the German language was actively suppressed by the Australian government during the war. For example, many placenames with German origins were changed. Lutheran schools were closed and were re-opened as state schools teaching in English.\n\nThere is some evidence that Barossa German was the first language of some people in South Australia until the late 20th century. For example, Colin Thiele claimed to have spoken nothing but German until he went to school.\n\nBecause most German immigrants to the Barossa were from Prussia and Silesia, Barossa German is classifiable as a Central German dialect. It is therefore relatively close to Standard German, when compared to analogous dialects spoken by German diaspora communities around the world.\n\nAccording to linguist Peter Mickan, Barossa German has incorporated some elements of South Australian English, including some English vocabulary and grammatical forms.\n\nThe best-known examples of Barossa German vocabulary are words which have been adopted by South Australian English. One such local word with German origins is \"butcher\", the name given to a 200 ml (7 fl.oz.) beer glass, which is believed to be derived from the German \"becher\", meaning a cup or mug.\n\nThe Barossa is also home to kegel, a variety of nine-pin bowling, which takes place on indoor lanes (\"Kegelbahn\"), and is based on traditional German games similar to alley skittles. The Barossa town of Tanunda still features the Tanunda Kegel Club, founded in 1858.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57443345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57443345", "title": "Bhadreshkumar Chetanbhai Patel", "text": "Bhadreshkumar Chetanbhai Patel\n\nBhadreshkumar Chetanbhai Patel (born May 15, 1990) is an Indian fugitive wanted for allegedly killing his wife at a Dunkin Donuts in Hanover, Maryland. He was the 514th person to be added to the FBI's list of Ten Most Wanted Fugitives and was last seen at a local train station near his hotel in New Jersey.\n\nPatel has connections in Canada, India, New Jersey, Kentucky, Georgia and Illinois. A reward of up to $100,000 is available for information that leads to his whereabouts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13820710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13820710", "title": "Cape Verdean Cuban", "text": "Cape Verdean Cuban\n\nCape Verdean Cuban are Cuban citizens or residents whose ancestry originated in Cape Verde.\n\nCape Verde and Cuba have had a long history. The first people from Cape Verde to Cuba came involuntarily. In 1526, the \"first known shipment of slaves intended for sale in Cuba carries 145 Africans from Cabo Verde to the island.\" More slaves from Cape Verde would follow. This would include the ancestor of Roel Caboverde Llacer, a famous Cuban artist.\n\nCuba and Cape Verde established diplomatic relations in September 1975, a few months after Cape Verdean independence. \"Since 1976, over 1,000 Cuban collaborators, mostly physicians and health technicians, have been working in that African nation, and nearly 1,000 Cape Verdean scholarship students have completed pre-university and university studies in Cuba.\" As of 2007, however, there are no estimates for the number of people of Cape Verdean descent living in Cuba.\n\nIn 2005, Germano Almeida's \"Two Brothers\" was translated into Spanish and included in an \"Arts and Literature\" anthology. In the same year, Fidel Castro presented Pedro Rodrigues Pires with the Jose Marti Order, Cuba's highest decoration.\n\n"}
{"id": "49514997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49514997", "title": "Child marriage in Turkey", "text": "Child marriage in Turkey\n\nAlthough illegal, child marriage in Turkey remains prevalent, especially among less educated families. It is a controversial political issue, and a topic of contention between liberal and conservative segments of society.\n\nOne third of all marriages in Turkey are child marriages and one third of women get married under the age of 18. Between 2002 and 2014, 504,957 children officially got married at the ages of 16 and 17. Between 2010 and 2013, this official figure was 134,629. Child marriages affect girls very disproportionately, about 20 times as much as boys; around 129,000 of those involved in child marriages were girls, whilst only 6,000 were boys. Child marriages involving girls often involve girls that are much younger than boys in child marriages. In 2012, around 20,000 families filed requests for permission to marry their daughters who were younger than 16. Between 2010 and 2013, there was a 94% increase in the number of families applying for permission to get their underage daughters (younger than 15) married. According to a 2013 Hacettepe University report supported by the Turkish government, 7.1% of all girls aged 15-19 were married. 26% of women between the ages of 15 and 49 reported that they were married as a child. The actual numbers of child marriages are estimated to be far higher than the official figures as many child marriages take place as unofficial religious marriages, without state authorization. This figure had decreased from 15.2% in 1998.\n\nChild marriages take place in every region of Turkey. However, the provinces where the proportions are the greatest are concentrated in Eastern and Central Anatolia. According to the Gaziantep University research, the proportion of child marriages in the city of Şanlıurfa is around 60%, whereas that in İzmir, known for its cosmopolitanism, is around 16-17%. According to the Turkish Statistical Institute, the following provinces had the highest proportions of child marriage in 2013 (all between 35% and 42%): Yozgat, Nevşehir, Niğde, Kahramanmaraş, Kilis, Muş, Siirt, Bitlis, Van, Ağrı, Kars and Ardahan.\n\nAccording to a 2018 Turkish report regarding child marriage in Turkey a total of 482,908 underage women were married in the last 10 years. “In Turkey, 26 percent of females were married before the age of 18. Ten percent of them gave birth before the age of 18. Some 142,298 underage mothers were recorded in the last six years. Most of these children were married with religious ceremonies. A total of 440,000 underage girls have given birth since 2002. The number of women under 15 who gave birth after being exposed to sexual abuse was recorded as 15,937.”\n\nAccording to a 2013 Gaziantep University research, 82% of child brides in Turkey are illiterate. Official reports indicated that 675 girls who were enrolled in primary schools had dropped out during the course of the year in 2009 due to marriage or betrothal, as opposed to 18 boys. 97.4% of students who discontinue their educational pursuits due to child marriage are girls.\n\nBetween 2012 and 2014, 90,483 cases were filed in Turkey about the rape, sexual harassment or exploitation of underage girls. 17,000 girls were reported as missing between 2011 and 2014. The leading causes for the deaths of girls aged 15-19 in Turkey are childbirth and pregnancy complications. According to a 2013 Hacettepe research supported by the Turkish government, of women ages 20-49, 9.5% reportedly first gave birth before the age of 18 and 0.8% gave birth before the age of 15. In the first six months of 2011, 300 children gave birth in hospitals in Diyarbakır and Şanlurfa provinces alone.\n\nChild marriage is outlawed in Turkey and is punishable by imprisonment for the man who marries an underage girl and for third parties who plan the marriage. However, there is a discrepancy in the legal framework regarding child marriage: the minimum age for the marriage of girls is 15 according to the Turkish Penal Code, 17 (for both sexes) according to the Turkish Civil Code and 18 according to the Child Protection Act. Turkish Civil Code also maintained a minimum marriageable age of 15 for girls until a change in 2002. According to activists, the legal framework is not the limiting factor in the struggle against child marriages.\n\nIn 2016, the governing Islamist conservative Justice and Development Party (AKP) sought to introduce legislation which would have made child rape no longer punishable if the perpetrator would offer to marry his victim; this was withdrawn after a public outcry against what was widely seen as an attempt of \"legitimising rape and encouraging child marriage\".\n\n"}
{"id": "51545446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51545446", "title": "Climate change and indigenous persons", "text": "Climate change and indigenous persons\n\nIndigenous actors have a myriad experiences because of the wildly different areas they inhabit across the globe and they bring a wide variety of experiences that Western science is beginning to include in its research of climate change and its solutions.\n\nReports show that millions of people will across the world will have to relocate due to rising seas, floods, droughts, and storms. While this will affect people all over the world, the impact will disproportionately affect indigenous people in regions like the Arctic and Pacific. In fact, not taking restorative action for indigenous actors could lead not only to the destruction of their lands, but could also prove genocidal for them as a whole. This is because indigenous people are connected to their climate, sharing a spiritual and cultural bond with their resources, in a way that others are not. One native group in Hawaii, the Maoli, for example, believes that they are physically related to all natural things present in the island archipelago. On the other hand, Westerners tend to identify not with the land they inhabit, but instead identify themselves based on their occupation. Ultimately, indigenous people are the most affected by climate change and the 2009 report from the Indigenous Peoples' Global Summit on Climate Change outlines the negative effects experienced by indigenous communities in 7 regions across the globe.\n\nClimate change has been the worst in the Arctic, not only with a temperature increase twice the magnitude of the increase in the rest of the world, but also with a sinking of the ice in the Arctic Sea. Satellite images of the ice show that it is currently has the smallest area in recorded history. If left unchecked, climate change in the Arctic will lead to a faster rise in sea levels, more frequent and intense storms and winds, further decreases in the extent of sea ice, and increased erosion due to higher waves. This climate change will also have health effects on the native Inuit people for a variety of reasons. Eroding coasts and thinning ice have changed the migration patterns of the numerous animal species upon which the Inuit rely for food. Simultaneously, increased temperatures and melting permafrost will make it harder for Inuit people to freeze and store food in their traditional way. Furthermore, climate change will bring new bacteria and other micro-organisms to the region, which will bring yet unknown effects to the peoples of the region.\n\nExtractive industries in the Amazon and the Amazonian Basin are threatening the livelihood of indigenous persons. These extractive policies were originally implemented without the consent of indigenous people are now being implemented without respect to the rights of indigenous people, specifically in the case of REDD. Most indigenous groups in Latin American tropical forests still operate on a hunter-gatherer system, and have no signs of stopping while indigenous groups in the rest of the globe's tropical forests are becoming more sedentary. Thus, deforestation will have a disproportionate effect on indigenous people in Latin American tropical forests. Furthermore, climate change has altered the patterns of migratory birds and changed the start and end times of wet and dry seasons, further increasing the disorientation of the daily lives of indigenous people in Latin America.\n\nThe region is characterized by low elevation and insular coastlines, making it severely susceptible to the increased sea-level and erosion effects of climate change. Entire islands have sunk in the Pacific region due to climate change, dislocating and killing indigenous persons. Furthermore, the region suffers from increased frequency and severity of cyclones, inundation and intensified tides, and decreased biodiversity due to the destruction of coral reefs and sea ecosystems. This decrease in biodiversity is coupled with a decreased populations of the fish and other sea life the indigenous people of the region rely upon for food. Indigenous people of the region are also losing many of its food sources, such as sugarcane, yams, taro, and bananas, to climate change as well as seeing a decrease in the amount of drinkable water made available from rainfall.\n\nThe main effect of climate change in the Caribbean region is the increased occurrence of extreme weather events. There have been an influx of flash floods, tsunamis, earthquakes, extreme winds, and landslides in the region. These events have led to wide-ranging infrastructural damage to both public and private property for all. For example, Hurricane Ivan inflicted damage totalling 135% of Grenada's GDP to Grenada, setting the country back an estimated ten years in development. The effects of these events are most strongly felt, however, by indigenous persons, who have been forced to move to the most extreme areas of the country due to the lasting effects that colonialism had on the region. In these extreme regions, extreme weather events are even more pronounced, leading to crop and livestock devastation.\n\nIndigenous people in Asia are plagued with a wide variety of problems due to climate change, including but not limited to, lengthy droughts, floods, irregular seasonal cycles, typhoons and cyclones with unprecedented strength, and highly unpredictable weather. This has led to worsening food and water security, which in turn factor into an increase in water-borne diseases, heat strokes, and malnutrition. Indigenous lifestyles in Asia have been completely uprooted and disrupted due to the above factors, but also due to the increased expansion of monoculture plantations, hydroelectric dams, and the extraction of uranium on their lands and territories prior to their free and informed consent.\n\nClimate change in Africa will lead to food insecurity, displacement of indigenous persons, as well as increased famine, drought, and floods. In some regions of Africa, like Malawi, climate change can also lead to landslides, hailstorms, and mudslides. Pressure from climate change on Africa is amplified because disaster management infrastructure is nonexistent or severely inadequate throughout the continent. Furthermore, the impact of climate change in Africa falls disproportionately on indigenous people because they have limitations on their migration and mobility, are more negatively affected by decreased biodiversity, and have their agricultural land disproportionately degraded by climate change. In Malawi, there has been a decrease in yield per unit hectare due to prolonged droughts and inadequate rainfall.\n\nImpacts of climate change on indigenous actors in North America include temperature increases, precipitation changes, decreased glacier and snow cover, rising sea level, increased floods, droughts and extreme weather. Some of the solutions proposed for combatting climate change in North America like coal pollution migitation, and GMO foods actually violate the rights of indigenous peoples and ignore what is in their best interest in favor of sustaining economic prosperity in the region. Furthermore, the loss of biodiversity in the region has severely limited the ability of native people to adapt to changes in their environment.\n\nHistorically, indigenous persons have not been included in conversations about climate change and frameworks for them to participate in research have not existed. For example, indigenous people in the Ecuadorian rainforest who had suffered a sharp decrease in biodiversity and an increase of greenhouse gas emissions due to the deforestation of the Amazon were not included in the 2005 Reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD+) project. This is especially difficult for indigenous people because many can perceive changes in their local climate, but struggle with giving reasons for their observed change.\n\nCritics of the program insist that their participation is necessary not only because they believe that it is necessary for social justice reasons but also because indigenous groups are better at protecting their forests than national parks. This place-based knowledge rooted in local cultures, indigenous knowledge (IK), is useful in determining impacts of climate change, especially at the local level where scientific models often fail. Furthermore, IK plays a crucial part in the rolling-out of new environmental programs because these programs have a higher participation rate and are more effective when indigenous actors have a say in how the programs themselves are shaped. Thus, including this knowledge in climate change research would lead to further improvements in not only the REDD+ program, but also in the myriad environmental programs that have emerged and will continue to emerge throughout the new millennium.\n\nBy extension, governance, especially climate governance, would benefit from an institutional linking to IK because it would hypothetically lead to increased food security. Such a linkage would also foster a shared sense of responsibility for the usage of the environment's natural resources in a way that is in line with sustainable development as a whole, but especially with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals. In addition, taking governance issues to indigenous people, those who are most exposed to climate issues, would build community resilience and increase local sustainability, which would in turn lead to positive ramifications at higher levels. It is theorized that harnessing the knowledge of indigenous persons on the local level is the most effective way of moving towards global sustainability.\n"}
{"id": "17868888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17868888", "title": "Daylami language", "text": "Daylami language\n\nThe Daylami language, also known as \"Daylamite\", \"Deilami\", \"Dailamite\", or \"Deylami\" (Deilami: , from the name of the Daylam region), is an extinct language that was one of the northwestern branch of the Iranian languages. It was spoken in northern Iran, specifically in the mountainous area in Gīlān, Mazandaran, and Ghazvin Provinces.\n\nParviz Natel Khanlari listed this language as one of Iranian dialects spoken between the 9th and 13th centuries. Istakhri, a medieval Iranian geographer, has written about this language, as did Al-Muqaddasi, a medieval Arab geographer, who wrote \"they have an obscure language and they use the phoneme \"khe\" /x/ a lot.\" Abū Esḥāq Ṣābī had a similar report on people in the Deylam highlands who spoke a distinct language.\n\nAccording to Wilfered Madelung, in the early Islamic period the language of the Deylamites was a northwestern Iranian language. One of the characteristics of this language was an added ī sound between consonants and ā (Lāhījān=Līāhījān, Amīrkā=Amīrkīā).\n\n"}
{"id": "874975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=874975", "title": "Directive Communication Psychology", "text": "Directive Communication Psychology\n\nDirective Communication Psychology (DC) is a training and organisational development psychology developed by Arthur F. Carmazzi that reveals how people act and react in groups while providing a structure for the influence of those groups.\n\nThe name, \"Directive Communication\", refers to the idea that communication is constant, and, is constantly causing and effecting the individuals and groups involved whether it is verbal or non-verbal. Therefore, understanding the psychological element and derived models of how these cause and effects come about, allows a person to consciously \"Direct\" his communication to achieve a purposeful and desired effect in group behavior.\n\nThe discipline was founded in 2001 when Carmazzi found himself working in a dysfunctional organisation and performing at levels far below his own aptitude. While he was underperforming at work, he found himself to be innovative and perform well with his friends on various projects. He also found that different groups of friends brought out different facets of his attitude and personality, some being positive and others not. His findings were later published as he discovered that an individual’s performance was directly related to the unique group environment he or she was in. The initial work showed some people performed extremely well in one environment and, even with the same requirements, performed poorly in others. The group dynamics studies led the development of the 6 primary models that Carmazzi identified as foundations to understand how different mixes of individuals affect performance differently. The models supported individuals within a group to influence the dynamics and performance of that group.\n\nOne of the studies identified how a high achiever was put into a high performing team and the entire team began to perform poorly. In the same study, certain average achievers were combined and created high performing teams. In 2007, the methodology was accredited by the American Institute of Business Psychology.\n\nDC Psychology continues to be an expanding discipline with many contributors to the methodology including Lily C. Lau, Dr Raymond Phoon, Dr Leslie Choudhury, Waheed Albalushi, Col. Aalok Soodm Prachla Malhotra and Dr Marine Milad.\n\nDirective Communication Psychology is the science of group dynamics. it identifies How and Why people act and react in groups, and the small modifications in behavior that leads to influencing those groups. Directive Communication became the science of organisational peak performance and was commercially applied to developing leadership, improving corporate culture, Team Development, workforce enhancement and group behavior modification, and in high yield training and development. In a non-commercial environment, Directive Communication serves to cultivate better personal relationships, raising children, and becoming more fulfilled and responsible citizens.\n\nThere are 307 Directive Communication certified trainers in 16 different countries including Iran, Pakistan, France, Malaysia, Singapore, Hungary, Bahrain, Qatar, China, UAE and Indonesia among others.\n\n\nThe directive communication organizational change model is a bottom up process that was originally derived from the US Special forces and CIA force multiplication and revolution models. The objective of the model is to develop a more effective and engaged organizational culture through uniting the people within the organization to create an environment that supports their personal success and value through the organization, and therefore increasing engagement. It assumes the following points:\n\n\nThe culture change process has 4 criteria for it to work and be sustainable.\n\n\nDirective communication psychology has the following assumptions:\n\nDirective communication psychology training focuses with the idea that learning retention and implementation could be improved with what founder, Arthur Carmazzi, calls “stacked learning”. Using sets of proprietary training tools developed by Carmazzi, a directive communication-based training game incorporates real world context into a specific learning point, the next learning point and game reinforces the earlier one and so on. Each game or exercise for new learning is “stacked” on, and emphasizes each previous learning.\nThis has led to further development of reflective tools such as the Colored Brain Communication Cards: a series of 54 images that, when put in context of a question, elicit subconscious values, lost knowledge, and expanded clarity about the question.\n\nThe methodology and tools expand from contributions from its certified trainers and practitioners such as The Choudhury Mind Maze Developed by Dr. Leslie Choudhury that emphasizes 5 out of the 6 Directive Communication models.\n\nThe Directive Communication assessments are also related to the various games.\n\n\nAssessments are also subject to expansion from the Directive Communication community with contributions to accuracy and further application. One contribution by Lily C. Lau expanded the practicality of the Colored Brain assessment by adding depth to the application of “the second color” with her own research in 2013.\n\n\nThere are two maincertifications, “trainer” and “practitioner”. Additional certifications such as culture change, gamification, and master trainer,must have a minimum trainer certification before they can be attained. As an accredited methodology from the American Institute of Business Psychology, the Directive Communication psychology trainer certification is subject to two examinations. A practical examination where no more than 3 out of 50 questions can be missed for a passing grade, and a practical for the psychology based delivery methods related to training and increasing retention and implementation of concepts. Trainer certifications can only be delivered and certified by official Directive Communication Certified Master Trainers.\n\nThe practitioner certification is available live by certified Directive Communication master trainers and in online format. It is a prerequisite for the trainer certification. The practitioner certification requires only passing a written test with 20 questions per module and cannot miss more than 2 out of 20. The test is taken online.\n\n"}
{"id": "36201623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36201623", "title": "Drug precursors", "text": "Drug precursors\n\nA drug precursor is a substance which can be used to make illicit drugs.\n\nExamples of such precursors and drugs made with them are listed below.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9337", "title": "Ecuadorians", "text": "Ecuadorians\n\nEcuadorians are people identified with Ecuador, a country in South America, its citizens or their descendants abroad who identify with the Ecuadorian culture and descent. Ecuador is a multiethnic society, a home to people of various ethnic origins; as a result, Ecuadorians do not equate their nationality with their ethnicity, but rather their allegiance or affinity for Ecuador. Majority of Ecuadorians trace their origins to one or more of three geographical sources of human migrations to the territory of modern Ecuador: the pre-Hispanic indigenous populations who settled the region over 15,000 years ago, the Europeans (principally Spaniards which are also the source of the Spanish language) who arrived over five centuries ago, and ultimately the sub-Saharan Africans who were imported to New Spain as slaves during the same period. The mixing of two or more of these three groups established other mixed ethnic groups.\n\n\"Mestizos\", the multiracial group of mixed European and Amerindian ancestry, are by far the largest of all the ethnic groups and comprise around 71.9% of the current population. Whites are estimated at 6.1% and consist largely of those of unmixed or predominant European descent. Most white Ecuadorians are of colonial-era Spanish origin, also known as \"criollos\" (literally meaning \"local-born Spaniards\", as opposed to \"Peninsulares\", which were Spaniards born in the Iberian Peninsula in Spain. They also include descendants of immigrants from Italy, Germany, and France, as well as other countries. The third most numerous group are the indigenous Amerindians, who account for approximately 7% of the population. Afro-Ecuadorians make up most of the balance of the percentage and include mulattos (mixed European and sub-Saharan African) and zambos (mixed indigenous and sub-Saharan African).\n\nThe Ecuadorian census is conducted by the governmental institution known as \"INEC\", \"Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos\" (National Institute of Statistics and Census). The census in Ecuador is conducted every ten years, and its objective is to obtain the number of people residing within its borders. The current census now includes household information.\n\nThe most recent census (as of 2011) emphasized reaching rural and remote areas to map the most accurate population count in the country. The 2010 census was conducted in November and December, and its results were published 27 January 2011.\n\nThe following table shows the dates the most recent censuses were made, and the total population number:\n\nIndex of growth:\nAccording to the total population was in , compared to only 3,470,000 in 1950. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2015 was 29.0%, 63.4% was between 15 and 65 years of age, while 6.7% was 65 years or older\n\nStructure of the population (01.07.2013) (Estimates – excludes nomadic Indian tribes. Data refer to projections based on the 2010 Population Census):\n\nRegistration of vital events is in Ecuador not complete. The Population Department of the United Nations prepared the following estimates.\n\nBirths and deaths\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\nPopulation:\n15,007,343 (July 2011 est.)\n\nMedian Age\n\nPopulation growth rate\n\nNet migration rate\n\nSex ratio\n\nHIV/AIDS – adult prevalence rate\n\nHIV/AIDS – people living with HIV/AIDS\n\nHIV/AIDS – deaths\n\nNationality\n\nReligions\n\nLanguages:\nSpanish (official), Amerindian languages (especially Quechua).\n\nAchuar-Shiwiar – 2,000 Pastaza province. Alternate names: Achuar, Achual, Achuara, Achuale.\n\nChachi – 3,450 Esmeraldas Province, Cayapas River system. Alternate names: Cayapa, Cha' Palaachi.\n\nColorado – 2,300 Santo Domingo de los Colorados province. Alternate names: Tsachila, Tsafiki.\n\nQuechua – 9 separate dialects are spoken in as many areas in the country with a combined population of 1'460,000.\n\nShuar – 46,669 (2000 WCD). Morona-Santiago Province. Alternate names: Jivaro, Xivaro, Jibaro, Chiwaro, Shuara.\n\nWaorani – 1,650 (2004). Napo and Morona-Santiago provinces. Alternate names: Huaorani, Waodani, Huao.\n\nLiteracy\n\nDue to the prevalence of malaria and yellow fever in the coastal region until the end of the 19th century, the Ecuadorian population was most heavily concentrated in the highlands and valleys of the \"Sierra\" region. Today's population is distributed more evenly between the \"Sierra\" and the \"Costa\" (the coastal lowlands)region. Migration towards the cities—particularly larger cities—in all regions has increased the urban population to about 55 percent.\n\nThe \"Oriente\" region, consisting of Amazonian lowlands to the East of the Andes and covering about half the country's land area, remains sparsely populated and contains only about 3% of the country's population, that for the most are indigenous peoples who maintain a wary distance from the recent mestizo and white settlers. The territories of the \"Oriente\" are home to as many as nine indigenous groups: Quichua, Shuar, Achuar, Huaorani, Siona, Secoya, Shiwiar, and Cofan, all represented politically by the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon, CONFENIAE.\n\nAs a result of the oil exploration and the development of the infrastructure required for the exploitation of the oil fields in the eastern jungles during the seventies and early eighties, there was a wave of settlement in the region. The Majority of these wave of internal immigration came from the southern province of Loja as a result of a drought that lasted three years and affected the southern provinces of the country. This boom of the petroleum industry has led to a mushrooming of the town of Lago Agrio (Nueva Loja) as well as substantial deforestation and pollution of wetlands and lakes.\n\nThere are five major ethnic groups in Ecuador: mestizo, white, Afroecuadorian, Amerindian, and Montubio. Mestizos constitute more than 70% of the population.\n\nEcuador's population descends from Spanish immigrants and indigenous South American Indians, admixed with descendants of black slaves who arrived to work on coastal plantations in the sixteenth century. The mix of these groups is described as mestizo or cholo. Censuses do not record ethnic affiliation, which in any event remains fluid; thus, estimates of the numbers of each group should be taken only as approximations. In the 1980s, Indians and mestizos represented the bulk of the population, with each group accounting for roughly 40 percent of total population. Whites represented 10 to 15 percent and blacks the remaining 5 percent.\n\nAccording to Kluck, writing in 1989, ethnic groups in Ecuador have had a traditional hierarchy of white, mestizo, blacks, and then others. Her review depicts this hierarchy as a consequence of colonial attitudes and of the terminology of colonial legal distinctions. Spanish-born persons residing in the New World (peninsulares) were at the top of the social hierarchy, followed by criollos, born of two Spanish parents in the colonies. The 19th century usage of mestizo was to denote a person whose parents were an Indian and a white; a cholo had one Indian and one mestizo parent. By the 20th century, mestizo and cholo were frequently used interchangeably. Kluck suggested that societal relationships, occupation, manners, and clothing all derived from ethnic affiliation.\n\nNonetheless, according to Kluck, individuals could potentially switch ethnic affiliation if they had culturally adapted to the recipient group; such switches were made without resort to subterfuge. Moreover, the precise criteria for defining ethnic groups varies considerably. The vocabulary that more prosperous mestizos and whites used in describing ethnic groups mixes social and biological characteristics. Ethnic affiliation thus is dynamic; Indians often become mestizos, and prosperous mestizos seek to improve their status sufficiently to be considered whites. Ethnic identity reflects numerous characteristics, only one of which is physical appearance; others include dress, language, community membership, and self-identification.\n\nA geography of ethnicity remained well-defined until the surge in migration that began in the 1950s. Whites resided primarily in larger cities. Mestizos lived in small towns scattered throughout the countryside. Indians formed the bulk of the Sierra rural populace, although mestizos filled this role in the areas with few Indians. Most blacks lived in Esmeraldas Province, with small enclaves found in the Carchi and Imbabura provinces. Pressure on Sierra land resources and the dissolution of the traditional hacienda, however, increased the numbers of Indians migrating to the Costa, the Oriente, and the cities. By the 1980s, Sierra Indians—or Indians in the process of switching their ethnic identity to that of mestizos—lived on Costa plantations, in Quito, Guayaquil, and other cities, and in colonization areas in the Oriente and the Costa. Indeed, Sierra Indians residing in the coastal region substantially outnumbered the remaining original Costa inhabitants, the Cayapa and Colorado Indians. In the late 1980s, analysts estimated that there were only about 4,000 Cayapas and Colorados. Some blacks had migrated from the remote region of the Ecuadorian-Colombian border to the towns and cities of Esmeraldas.\n\nAfro-Ecuadorians are an ethnic group in Ecuador who are descendants of black African slaves brought by the Spanish during their conquest of Ecuador from the Incas. They make up from 3% to 5% of Ecuador's population.\n\nEcuador has a population of about 1,120,000 descendants from African people. The Afro-Ecuadorian culture is found primarily in the country's northwest coastal region. Africans form a majority (70%) in the province of Esmeraldas and also have an important concentration in the Valle del Chota in the Imbabura Province. They can be also found in important numbers in Quito and Guayaquil.\n\nSierra Indians had an estimated population of 1.5 to 2 million in the early 1980s and live in the intermontane valleys of the Andes. Prolonged contact with Hispanic culture, which dates back to the conquest, has had a homogenizing effect, reducing the variation among the indigenous Sierra tribes.\n\nThe Indians of the Sierra are separated from whites and mestizos by a castelike gulf. They are marked as a disadvantaged group; to be an Indian or indígena in Ecuador is to be stigmatized. Indians are usually poor and frequently illiterate, they enjoy limited participation in national institutions, and they command access to few of the social and economic opportunities available to more privileged groups.\n\nVisible markers of ethnic affiliation, especially hairstyle, dress, and language, separate Indians from the rest of the populace. Indians wore more manufactured items by the late 1970s than previously; their clothing, nonetheless, was distinct from that of other rural inhabitants. Indians in communities relying extensively on wage labor sometimes assumed Western-style dress while still maintaining their Indian identity. Indians speak Quichua—a Quechua dialect—although most are bilingual, speaking Spanish as a second language with varying degrees of facility. By the late 1980s, some younger Indians no longer learned Quichua.\n\nAlthough the Indians of the Oriente first came into contact with whites in the 16th century, the encounters were more sporadic than those of most of the country's indigenous population. Until the 19th century, most non-Indians entering the region were either traders or missionaries. Beginning in the 1950s, however, the government built roads and encouraged settlers from the Sierra to colonize the Amazon River Basin. Virtually all remaining Indians were brought into increasing contact with national society. The interaction between Indians and outsiders had a profound impact on the indigenous way of life.\n\nIn the late 1970s, roughly 30,000 Quichua speakers and 15,000 Jívaros lived in Oriente Indian communities. Quichua speakers (sometimes referred to as the Yumbos) grew out of the detribalization of members of many different groups after the Spanish conquest. Subject to the influence of Quichua-speaking missionaries and traders, various elements of the Yumbos adopted the tongue as a lingua franca and gradually lost their previous languages and tribal origins. Yumbos were scattered throughout the Oriente, whereas the Jívaros—subdivided into the Shuar and the Achuar—were concentrated in southeastern Ecuador. Some also lived in northeastern Peru. Traditionally, both groups relied on migration to resolve intracommunity conflict and to limit the ecological damage to the tropical forest caused by slash-and-burn agriculture.\n\nBoth the Yumbos and the Jívaros depended on agriculture as their primary means of subsistence. Manioc, the main staple, was grown in conjunction with a wide variety of other fruits and vegetables. Yumbo men also resorted to wage labor to obtain cash for the few purchases deemed necessary. By the mid-1970s, increasing numbers of Quichua speakers settled around some of the towns and missions of the Oriente. Indians themselves had begun to make a distinction between Christian and jungle Indians. The former engaged in trade with townspeople. The Jívaros, in contrast to the Christian Quichua speakers, lived in more remote areas. Their mode of horticulture was similar to that of the non-Christian Yumbos, although they supplemented crop production with hunting and some livestock raising.\n\nShamans (curanderos) played a pivotal role in social relations in both groups. As the main leaders and the focus of local conflicts, shamans were believed to both cure and kill through magical means. In the 1980s group conflicts between rival shamans still erupted into full-scale feuds with loss of life.\n\nThe Oriente Indian population dropped precipitously during the initial period of intensive contact with outsiders. The destruction of their crops by mestizos laying claim to indigenous lands, the rapid exposure to diseases to which Indians lacked immunity, and the extreme social disorganization all contributed to increased mortality and decreased birth rates. One study of the Shuar in the 1950s found that the group between ten and nineteen years of age was smaller than expected. This was the group that had been youngest and most vulnerable during the initial contact with national society. Normal population growth rates began to reestablish themselves after approximately the first decade of such contact.\n\nEcuador's mainstream culture is defined by its Hispanic \"mestizo\" majority, and like their ancestry, it is traditionally of Spanish heritage, influenced in different degrees by Amerindian traditions, and in some cases by African elements. The first and most substantial wave of modern immigration to Ecuador consisted of Spanish colonists, following the arrival of Europeans in 1499. A lower number of other Europeans and North Americans migrated to the country in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, and in smaller numbers, Poles, Lithuanians, English, Irish, and Croats during and after the Second World War.\n\nSince African slavery was not the workforce of the Spanish colonies in the Andes Mountains of South America, given the subjugation of the indigenous people through evangelism and \"encomiendas\", the minority population of African descent is mostly found in the coastal northern province of Esmeraldas. This is largely owing to the 17th century shipwreck of a slave-trading galleon off the northern coast of Ecuador.\n\nEcuador's indigenous communities are integrated into the mainstream culture to varying degrees, but some may also practice their own indigenous cultures, particularly the more remote indigenous communities of the Amazon basin. Spanish is spoken as the first language by more than 90% of the population, and as a first or second language by more than 98%. Part of Ecuador's population can speak Amerindian languages, in some cases as a second language. Two percent of the population speak only Amerindian languages.\n\nMost Ecuadorians speak Spanish, though many speak Amerindian languages such as Kichwa. Other Amerindian languages spoken in Ecuador include Awapit (spoken by the Awá), A'ingae (spoken by the Cofan), Shuar Chicham (spoken by the Shuar), Achuar-Shiwiar (spoken by the Achuar and the Shiwiar), Cha'palaachi (spoken by the Chachi), Tsa'fiki (spoken by the Tsáchila), Paicoca (spoken by the Siona and Secoya), and Wao Tededeo (spoken by the Waorani). Though most features of Ecuadorian Spanish are those universal to the Spanish-speaking world, there are several idiosyncrasies.\n\nAccording to the Ecuadorian National Institute of Statistics and Census, 91.95% of the country's population have a religion, 7.94% are atheists and 0.11% are agnostics. Among those with a religion, 80.44% are Roman Catholic, 11.30% are Protestants, and 8.26% other (mainly Jewish, Buddhists and Latter-day Saints).\n\nIn the rural parts of Ecuador, indigenous beliefs and Catholicism are sometimes syncretized. Most festivals and annual parades are based on religious celebrations, many incorporating a mixture of rites and icons.\n\nThere is a small number of Eastern Orthodox Christians, indigenous religions, Muslims (see Islam in Ecuador), Buddhists and Bahá'ís. There are about 185,000 members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), and over 80,000 Jehovah's Witnesses in the country.\n\nThe \"Jewish Community of Ecuador\" (Comunidad Judía del Ecuador) has its seat in Quito and has approximately 300 members. Nevertheless, this number is declining because young people leave the country towards the United States of America or Israel. The Community has a Jewish Center with a synagogue, a country club and a cemetery. It supports the \"Albert Einstein School\", where Jewish history, religion and Hebrew classes are offered. Since 2004, there has also been a Chabad house in Quito.\n\nThere are very small communities in Cuenca and Ambato. The \"Comunidad de Culto Israelita\" reunites the Jews of Guayaquil. This community works independently from the \"Jewish Community of Ecuador\". Jewish visitors to Ecuador can also take advantage of Jewish resources as they travel and keep kosher there, even in the Amazon Rainforest. The city has also synagogue of Messianic Judaism.\n\nThe music of Ecuador has a long history. Pasillo is a genre of indigenous Latin music. In Ecuador it is the \"national genre of music.\" Through the years, many cultures have influenced to establish new types of music. There are also different kinds of traditional music like albazo, pasacalle, fox incaico, tonada, capishca, Bomba highly established in afro-Ecuadorian society like Esmeraldas, and so on.\n\nTecnocumbia and Rockola are clear examples of foreign cultures' influence. One of the most traditional forms of dancing in Ecuador is Sanjuanito. It is originally from the North of Ecuador (Otavalo-Imbabura). Sanjuanito is a danceable music used in the festivities of the mestizo and indigenous culture. According to the Ecuadorian musicologist Segundo Luis Moreno, Sanjuanito was danced by indigenous people during San Juan Bautista's birthday. This important date was established by the Spaniards on 24 June, coincidentally the same date when indigenous people celebrated their rituals of Inti Raymi.\n\nEcuadorian cuisine is diverse, varying with the altitude and associated agricultural conditions. Most regions in Ecuador follow the traditional three course meal of soup, a second course which includes rice and a protein such as meat or fish, and then dessert and coffee to finish. Supper is usually lighter, and sometimes consists only of coffee or herbal tea with bread.\n\nIn the highland region, pork, chicken, beef, and \"cuy\" (guinea pig) are popular and are served with a variety of grains (especially rice and corn) or potatoes.\n\nIn the coastal region, seafood is very popular, with fish, shrimp and \"ceviche\" being key parts of the diet. Generally, ceviches are served with fried plantain (chifles y patacones), popcorn or tostado. Plantain- and peanut-based dishes are the basis of most coastal meals. Encocados (dishes that contain a coconut sauce) are also very popular. \"Churrasco\" is a staple food of the coastal region, especially Guayaquil. \"Arroz con menestra y carne asada\" (rice with beans and grilled beef) is one of the traditional dishes of Guayaquil, as is fried plantain which is often served with it. This region is a leading producer of bananas, cacao beans (to make chocolate), shrimp, tilapia, mangos and passion fruit, among other products.\n\nIn the Amazon region, a dietary staple is the \"yuca\", elsewhere called cassava. Many fruits are available in this region, including bananas, tree grapes, and peach palms.\n\nEarly literature in colonial Ecuador, as in the rest of Spanish America, was influenced by the Spanish Golden Age. One of the earliest examples is Jacinto Collahuazo, an indigenous chief of a northern village in today's Ibarra, born in the late 1600s. Despite the early repression and discrimination of the native people by the Spanish, Collahuazo learned to read and write in Castilian, but his work was written in Quechua. The use of the Quipu was banned by the Spanish, and in order to preserve their work, many Inca poets had to resort to the use of the Latin alphabet to write in their native Quechua language. The history behind the Inca drama \"Ollantay\", the oldest literary piece in existence for any indigenous language in America, shares some similarities with the work of Collahuazo. Collahuazo was imprisoned, and all of his work burned. The existence of his literary work came to light many centuries later, when a crew of masons was restoring the walls of a colonial church in Quito, and found a hidden manuscript. The salvaged fragment is a Spanish translation from Quechua of the \"Elegy to the Dead of Atahualpa\", a poem written by Collahuazo, which describes the sadness and impotence of the Inca people of having lost their king Atahualpa.\n\nOther early Ecuadorian writers include the Jesuits Juan Bautista Aguirre, born in Daule in 1725, and Father Juan de Velasco, born in Riobamba in 1727. De Velasco wrote about the nations and chiefdoms that had existed in the \"Kingdom of Quito\" (today Ecuador) before the arrival of the Spanish. His historical accounts are nationalistic, featuring a romantic perspective of precolonial history.\n\nFamous authors from the late colonial and early republic period include: Eugenio Espejo a printer and main author of the first newspaper in Ecuadorian colonial times; Jose Joaquin de Olmedo (born in Guayaquil), famous for his ode to Simón Bolívar titled \"La Victoria de Junin\"; Juan Montalvo, a prominent essayist and novelist; Juan Leon Mera, famous for his work \"Cumanda\" or \"Tragedy among Savages\" and the Ecuadorian National Anthem; Luis A. Martínez with \"A la Costa\", Dolores Veintimilla, and others.\n\nContemporary Ecuadorian writers include the novelist Jorge Enrique Adoum; the poet Jorge Carrera Andrade; the essayist Benjamín Carrión; the poets Medardo Angel Silva, Jorge Carrera Andrade; the novelist Enrique Gil Gilbert; the novelist Jorge Icaza (author of the novel \"Huasipungo\", translated to many languages); the short story author Pablo Palacio; the novelist Alicia Yanez Cossio.\n\nThe best known art styles from Ecuador belonged to the \"Escuela Quiteña\", which developed from the 16th to 18th centuries, examples of which are on display in various old churches in Quito. Ecuadorian painters include: Eduardo Kingman, Oswaldo Guayasamín and Camilo Egas from the Indiginist Movement; Manuel Rendon, Jaime Zapata, Enrique Tábara, Aníbal Villacís, Theo Constante, León Ricaurte and Estuardo Maldonado from the Informalist Movement; and Luis Burgos Flor with his abstract, Futuristic style. The indigenous people of Tigua, Ecuador are also world-renowned for their traditional paintings.\n\nThe most popular sport in Ecuador, as in most South American countries, is football (soccer). Its best known professional teams include Barcelona and Emelec from Guayaquil; LDU Quito, Deportivo Quito, and El Nacional from Quito; Olmedo from Riobamba; and Deportivo Cuenca from Cuenca. Currently the most successful football club in Ecuador is LDU Quito, and it is the only Ecuadorian club that have won the \"Copa Libertadores\", the \"Copa Sudamericana\" and the \"Recopa Sudamericana\"; they were also runners-up in the 2008 FIFA Club World Cup. The matches of the Ecuadorian national team are the most-watched sporting events in the country. Ecuador qualified for the final rounds of both the 2002 and 2006 FIFA World Cups. The 2002 FIFA World Cup qualifying campaign was considered a huge success for the country and its inhabitants. Ecuador finished in 2nd place on the qualifiers behind Argentina and above the team that would become World Champion, Brazil. In the 2006 FIFA World Cup, Ecuador finished ahead of Poland and Costa Rica to come in second to Germany in Group A in the 2006 World Cup. Futsal, often referred to as \"índor\", is particularly popular for mass participation.\n\nThere is considerable interest in tennis in the middle and upper classes of Ecuadorian society, and several Ecuadorian professional players have attained international fame. Basketball has a high profile, while Ecuador's specialties include Ecuavolley, a three-person variation of volleyball. Bullfighting is practiced at a professional level in Quito, during the annual festivities that commemorate the Spanish founding of the city, and it also features in festivals in many smaller towns. Rugby union is found to some extent in Ecuador, with teams in Guayaquil, Quito and Cuenca.\n\nEcuador has won only two medals in the Olympic Games, both gained by 20 km racewalker Jefferson Pérez, who took gold in the 1996 games, and silver 12 years later. Pérez also set a world best in the 2003 World Championships of 1:17:21 for the 20 km distance.\n\nIn recent decades, there has been a high rate of emigration due to the economic crisis that seriously affected the economy of the country in the 1990s, over 400,000 Ecuadorians left for Spain and Italy, and around 100,000 for the United Kingdom while several hundred thousand Ecuadorians live in the US, (500,000 by some estimates) mostly in the cities of the Northeastern corridor. Many other Ecuadorians have emigrated across Latin America, thousands have gone to Japan and Australia. One famous American of Ecuadorian descent is pop music vocalist Christina Aguilera.\n\nIn Ecuador there are about 100,000 Americans and over 30,000 European Union expatriates. They move to Ecuador for business opportunities and as cheaper place for retirement.\n\nAs a result of the political conflict in Colombia and of the criminal gangs that had appeared in the areas of power vacuum a constant flow of refugees and asylum seekers as well as economic migrants of Colombian origin had moved into Ecuadorian territory. Over the last decade at least 45,000 displaced people are now residents in Ecuador, the Ecuadorian government and international organizations are assisting them. According to the UNHCR 2009 report as many as 167,189 refugees and asylum seekers are temporary residents in Ecuador.\n\nFollowing the migratory trend to Europe many of the jobs that those that left held in the country had been taken over by Peruvian economic migrants. Those jobs are mostly in agriculture and unskilled labor. There are no official statistics but some press reports estimate their number into the tens of thousands.\n\nThere is a diverse community of Middle Eastern Ecuadorians, numbering in the tens of thousands, mostly from Lebanese, Syrian and Palestinian descent; prominent in commerce and industry, and concentrated in the coastal cities of Guayaquil, Quevedo and Machala. They are well assimilated into the local culture and are referred commonly as \"turcos\" since the early migrants of these communities arrived with passports issued by the Ottoman Empire in the beginning of the century.\nSee also: Lebanese people in Ecuador.\n\nEcuador is also home to communities of Spaniards, Italians, Germans, Portuguese, French, Britons and Greek-Ecuadorians. Ecuadorian Jews, who number around 450 are mostly of German or Italian descent. There are 225,000 English speakers and 112,000 German speakers in Ecuador of which the great majority reside in Quito, mainly all descendants of immigrants who arrived in the late 19th century and of retired emigrees that returned to their terroir. Most of the descendants of European immigrants strive for the preservation of their heritage. Therefore, some groups even have their own schools (e.g. German School Guayaquil and German School Quito), Liceé La Condamine (French Heritage), Alberto Einstein (Jewish Heritage) and The British School of Quito (Anglo-British), cultural and social organizations, churches and country clubs. Their contribution for the social, political and economical development of the country is immense, specially in relation to their percentage in the total population. Most of the families of European heritage belong to the Ecuadorian upper class and had married into the wealthiest families of the country.\n\nThere is also a small Asian-Ecuadorian (see Asian Latino) community estimated in a range from 2,500 to 25,000, mainly consists of those having any amount of Chinese Yunan and Han descent, and possibly 10,000 being Japanese whose ancestors arrived as miners, farm hands and fishermen in the late 19th century. Guayaquil has an East Asian community, mostly Chinese including Taiwanese, Filipinos and Japanese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1480607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1480607", "title": "Fils de France", "text": "Fils de France\n\nFils de France (, \"Son of France\") was the style and rank held by the sons of the kings and dauphins of France. A daughter was known as a fille de France (, \"Daughter of France\").\n\nThe children of the dauphin (a title reserved for the king's heir apparent whether son, grandson or great-grandson of the monarch) were accorded the same style and status as if they were the king's children instead of his grandchildren or great-grandchildren.\n\nThe king, queen, queen dowager, \"enfants de France\" (children of France) and \"petits-enfants de France\" (grandchildren of France) constituted the \"famille du roi\" (royal family). More remote legitimate, male-line descendants of France's kings held the designation and rank of \"princes du sang\" (princes of the blood) or, if legally recognised despite a bar sinister on the escutcheon, they were customarily deemed \"princes légitimés\" (legitimated princes).\n\nThe dauphin, the heir to the French throne, was the most senior of the \"fils de France\" and was usually addressed as \"Monsieur le dauphin\". The king's next younger brother, also a \"fils de France\", was known simply as \"Monsieur\", and his wife as \"Madame\".\n\nDaughters were referred to by their given name prefaced with the honorific \"Madame\", while sons were referred to by their main peerage title (usually ducal), with the exception of the dauphin. The king's eldest daughter was known as \"Madame Royale\" until she married, whereupon the next eldest \"fille de France\" succeeded to that style.\n\nAlthough the children of monarchs are often referred to in English as \"prince\" or \"princess\", those terms were used as general descriptions for royalty in France but not as titular prefixes or direct forms of address for individuals (with the exception of \"Monsieur le Prince\" for the senior \"prince du sang\") prior to the July Monarchy (1830–1848). Collectively, the legitimate children of the kings and dauphins were known as \"enfants de France\" (\"children of France\"), while examples abound in reputable works of \"fils de France\" and \"fille de France\" being converted into other languages as \"Prince/Princess of France\" (however the same works, as cited, leave the Spanish equivalent, \"Infante/Infanta de España)\", untranslated. The illegitimate children of French kings, dauphins, and \"princes du sang\" were not entitled to any rights or styles \"per se\", but often they were legitimised by their fathers. Even then, however, they were never elevated to the rank of \"fils de France\", although they were sometimes accorded the lower rank and/or privileges associated with the \"princes du sang\".\n\nAll \"enfants de France\" were entitled to the style of Royal Highness (\"altesse royale\") from the reign of Louis XIII. However, in practice that formal honorific was less often used than the more traditionally French styles of \"Monsieur, Madame\" or \"Mademoiselle\". The styles of the royal family varied as follows:\n\nUnder the Valois monarchs, the titles borne by the sons of kings became regularized. Philip VI made his eldest son \"Duke of Normandy\" and his second son \"Duke of Orléans\". Normandy would have become the regular title of the heirs apparent of kings, but the acquisition of Dauphiné and the request of its last count ensured that the heirs apparent would be called \"Dauphin\" instead.\n\nJohn II made his eldest son Duke of Normandy, and his younger sons dukes of Anjou, Berry, and Burgundy. Anjou and Burgundy established long-lived dynasties, while the Duke of Berry lived for a long time. Orléans was reused for the younger son of Charles V, while Berry was reused for the younger son of Charles VII. By the accession of Francis I, all of the cadet branches descended from Valois kings had either succeeded to the throne or become extinct. Thus the king had a wide selection of traditional titles to choose from. Orléans was the most preferred, followed by Anjou.\n\nThe Bourbon kings followed the traditional titling, with Berry used for the third son. As lifespans extended, Burgundy was used for the eldest son of the Dauphin, and Brittany for the eldest son of the eldest son of the Dauphin. But as fortune would have it, only the title of Orléans would be transmitted hereditarily until the Revolution.\n\nThis was a form of address for the dauphin. The \"dauphin de France\" (strictly-speaking the dauphin de Viennois), was the title used for the heir apparent to the throne of France from 1350 to 1791 and then from 1824 to 1830.\n\nThis was another way of addressing \"Le Grand Dauphin\", the only legitimate son of Louis XIV. After the death of \"le Grand Dauphin\", the heir apparent to the throne of France for half a century, the style of \"Monseigneur\" was not used again to describe the dauphin himself. Rather, it became the style used by his sons as prefix to their peerages. During the lifetime of the \"Grand Dauphin\", his three sons were addressed as:\n\n\nThis was the style of the dynastic wife of the \"dauphin\". Some holders of the honorific were:\n\n\nThis was the style of the eldest surviving daughter of the king. Those who held this honorific were:\n\nBetween the death, in 1672, of Marie-Thérèse of France, the longest living daughter of Louis XIV and his Queen, and the birth, in 1727, of Louise Élisabeth of France, the eldest daughter of Louis XV, there were no legitimate daughters of a French king. Because of this, the style was occasionally used by the most senior unmarried princess at the French Court during that period. It was briefly used by the eldest niece of Louis XIV, Marie Louise d'Orléans (1662–1689), later known as just \"Mademoiselle\". After her marriage to King Charles II of Spain (1661–1700), in 1679, the style was assumed briefly by her younger sister, Anne Marie d'Orléans (1669–1728), before she married Victor Amadeus II of Sardinia (1666–1732).\n\nThis honorific belonged to the oldest living brother of the King. Among those who held this style were:\n\nThis was the style of the wife of \"Monsieur\". Examples of this were:\n\nKing Louis XV and his wife, Marie Leszczyńska, had ten children, eight of whom were girls. To distinguish between these eight princesses, the daughters were known in birth order as \"Madame 'number\"', such as \"Madame Première\", \"Madame Seconde\", etc. This style was not a traditional right and was merely a way the court used to distinguish between the many daughters of Louis XV.\n\n\nPetit-fils de France (\"Grandson of France\"). This was the style and rank accorded to the sons of the \"fils de France\", who were themselves the sons of the kings and dauphins of France. However, as surnames, they used the paternal main peerage title. Females had the style petite-fille de France (\"Granddaughter of France\").\n\nThe \"petits-enfants de France\", like the \"enfants de France\", were entitled to be addressed as \"son altesse royale\" (\"His/Her Royal Highness\"). Additionally, they traveled and lodged wherever the king did, could dine with him, and were entitled to an armchair in his presence.\n\nYet as hosts, they only offered armchairs to foreign monarchs—whom they addressed as \"Monseigneur\" rather than \"Sire\". Nor did they pay visits to foreign ambassadors, nor extend to them a hand in greeting. They only wore full mourning for deceased members of the royal family.\n\nWhen entering a town, they were greeted with a presentation of arms by the royal garrison, by the firing of cannon, and by a delegation of local officials. However, only the sons and daughters of France were entitled to dine \"au grand couvert\", that is, alone on a canopied dais amidst non-royal onlookers.\n\nThis style was usually held by the eldest daughter of \"Monsieur\" and his wife, \"Madame\". Those who held this style were:\n\n\nYounger daughters of \"Monsieur\" were named after one of his appanages, e.g. \"Mademoiselle de Chartres\" (1676–1744), the third surviving daughter of Philippe I, duc d'Orléans.\n\nThis custom was not confined to the royal family. Even untitled noble families followed the same habit.\nAfter 1662, Anne Marie Louise d'Orléans, Duchess of Montpensier, who was originally called \"Mademoiselle\" as the eldest daughter of Gaston duc d'Orléans, became known as \"la Grande Mademoiselle\" at court, in order to distinguish her from her younger cousin, Marie Louise d'Orléans, now also called \"Mademoiselle\", as the daughter of Anne's first cousin, the new \"Monsieur\". After her death in 1693, the style of \"Grande Mademoiselle\" was not used again. Thus, this was not an official style but simply a means the court used to distinguish between the two princesses who held the style of \"Mademoiselle\" at the same time.\n\n"}
{"id": "31844625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31844625", "title": "Folsom Europe", "text": "Folsom Europe\n\nFolsom Europe is an annual BDSM and leather subculture street fair held in September in Berlin, Germany. Folsom Europe was established in 2003 in order to bring the non-profit leather festival concept pioneered by the Folsom Street Fair in San Francisco to Europe. Today this is the biggest gay fetish event in Europe together with BLF's \"Easter in Berlin\" which is held every Easter in Berlin. BLF is the gay leather organisation in Berlin. BLF stands for Berlin Leder und Fetisch e.V. The main area for the two fetish festivals is in Schöneberg. The Folsom Europe street festival is at Fuggerstrasse and Welserstrasse, close to Wittenbergplatz. Each year Folsom Europe is getting bigger and 2013, 10 years from the start, it was bigger than ever. Most of the visitors are gay, but all sexualities are welcome. There are also some fetish weekends in Berlin other times of the year. Some of the big parties under the festival are \"Perverts\", \"Pig\" and \"Sneakfreaxx\".\n\nFolsom Europe is also the backdrop for the annual German Titleholders' Conference, an event which brings together fetish titleholders from all over the world to meet and collect money for charitable organisations in Berlin. Fundraising is an important part of this fetish street party, as it is the only event in Europe where the nuns from the Order of the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence stand at the gates to collect funds from visitors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38258867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38258867", "title": "Gbeya language", "text": "Gbeya language\n\nGbeya (\"Gbɛ́yá\", Gbaya-Bossangoa) is a Gbaya language of the Central African Republic. \"Ethnologue\" reports it may be mutually intelligible with Bozom.\n"}
{"id": "21297236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21297236", "title": "Infamia", "text": "Infamia\n\nIn ancient Roman culture, infamia (\"in-\", \"not,\" and \"fama\", \"reputation\") was a loss of legal or social standing. As a technical term of Roman law, \"infamia\" was an official exclusion from the legal protections enjoyed by a Roman citizen, as imposed by a censor or praetor. More generally, especially during the Republic and Principate, \"infamia\" was informal damage to one's esteem or reputation. A person who suffered \"infamia\" was an infamis (plural infames).\n\n\"Infamia\" was an \"inescapable consequence\" for certain professionals, including prostitutes and pimps, entertainers such as actors and dancers, and gladiators. \"Infames\" could not, for instance, provide testimony in a court of law. They were liable to corporal punishment, which was usually reserved for slaves. The \"infamia\" of entertainers did not exclude them from socializing among the Roman elite, and entertainers who were \"stars\", both men and women, sometimes became the lovers of such high-profile figures as the \"dictator\" Sulla and Mark Antony.\n\nA passive homosexual who was \"outed\" might also be subject to social \"infamia\", though if he was a citizen he might retain his legal standing.\n\nThe modern Roman Catholic Church has a similar concept of infamy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35248039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35248039", "title": "Kamara language", "text": "Kamara language\n\nKamara is a Gur language of Ghana.\n"}
{"id": "2742703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2742703", "title": "Laotians in France", "text": "Laotians in France\n\nLaotians in France consist of people of Lao ancestry who were born in or immigrated to France. The population as of 2013 is estimated to be 90,000.\n\nThe Laotian community in France forms the most established overseas Laotian population, with a presence in the country dating to before the end of the Laotian Civil War and mass refugee migration that resulted from it.\n\nThe presence of Laotian people in France began during the early 20th century, when Laos was a protectorate of France. With the steady introduction of the French education system by the colonists, a number of Laotian students were able to study in France, including members of the Lao Royal Family. A smaller number of Laotian workers also settled in France during this period. However, the largest influx of Laotians immigrated to France following the Vietnam War and communist takeover of their homeland.\n\nFrance was an ideal destination for Laotian refugees who were educated or formed part of the elite and middle class in the home nation, while poorer refugees tended to emigrate to North America and Australia through the assistance of the American, Canadian and Australian governments.\n\nUnlike their counterpart communities in the United States, Canada and Australia, Laotians in France are more successful and better integrated into the host country due to stronger knowledge of the nation's social aspects, such as culture, language and history. Although the issue of immigrant groups and their level of assimilation has been an important issue in French politics, the Laotian community is highly integrated into French society, with high average rates of educational and economic achievement, especially among the generations of French-born Lao.\n\nLaotian Buddhist temples serve as community and cultural centers for the Laotian population in France, and important traditional holidays such as Lao New Year and the Pha That Luang Festival are observed in addition to French holidays.\n\nThe majority of Laotians in France live in Paris and the surrounding Île-de-France region, with smaller communities in Marseille, Lille and Strasbourg. While the generation of immigrants to France tries to preserve Laotian culture and uses the Lao language among the community, the first and second generations born in France are increasingly influenced by French culture, with many members of the generations being unable to understand or speak Lao.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14338564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14338564", "title": "Law enforcement by country", "text": "Law enforcement by country\n\nIn many countries, particularly those with a federal system of government, there may be several law enforcement agencies, police or police-like organizations, each serving different levels of government and enforcing different subsets of the applicable law.\nAlbania has a unilateral police force with various subdivisions depending on purpose\n\nIn Argentina the most important law enforcement organisation is the \"Policia Federal Argentina\" (with a jurisdiction and organization similar to the FBI in the USA) with jurisdiction in all Argentine territories. Argentina is a Federal Republic divided into 23 provinces and one federal district, and as a result the provincial police (equivalent to state police in the United States) carries out most routine police work, except in the capital city of Buenos Aires (the federal district), where the \"Policia Federal Argentina\" assumes the role of the local police.\n\nThe majority of policing work is carried out by the police forces of the six states that make up the Australian federation, such as the New South Wales Police Force, the Victoria Police or the Tasmania Police. The Australian Federal Police are responsible for policing duties in the Australian Capital Territory, and investigating crimes relating to federal criminal law (particularly crimes with an international dimension) nationwide.\n\nThe policing work is carried out basically by federal agencies. The Federal Police \"(Bundespolizei)\" is the uniformed force, the investigative work is done by the regional divisions of the Federal Criminal Police Office \"(Bundeskriminalamt)\", the \"Landeskriminalamt\". Beside the federal agencies some cities have a Municipal Police \"(Stadtpolizei)\" as well, having the same power like the federal police only restricted by the city boundaries.\n\nThe Bangladesh Police is the main law enforcement agency of Bangladesh. It is administered under the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Government of Bangladesh. It plays a crucial role in maintaining peace, and enforcement of law and order within Bangladesh. Though the police are primarily concerned with the maintenance of law and order and security of persons and property of individuals, they also play a big role in the criminal justice system.\n\nThe Royal Barbados Police Force (RBPF) is the main agency tasked with maintaining local law and order in the country of Barbados. The police force may in times of need call upon the Barbados Defence Force (BDF) and/or Regional Security System for additional support.\n\nThe majority of policing work is carried out by the local police forces. The Federal Police are responsible for policing and investigating crimes relating to federal criminal law (particularly crimes with an international dimension) nationwide.\n\nThe Bosnian Police consists of two different Police entities, the Federation and the Republika Srpska Police, Bosnia also has its Counter Terrorism Agency SIPA.\n\nThere are three federal police services: the Brazilian Federal Police, the Brazilian Federal Highway Police and the Brazilian Federal Railroad Police, which have been inactive for years. Each state has Military Police/\"Polícia Militar\" and Civil Police/\"Polícia Civil\", both under the command of the state's governor. Despite their names, the Military Police are public order police, and the Civil Police investigative police. Lastly, more than 1200 cities have Municipal Guards. The armed forces have their own provost services.\n\nThe National Police of Cambodia (\"Nokorbal Chéat\") is Cambodia's police force which is under the Ministry of Interior\n\nIn Canada, all criminal law (including the Criminal Code) falls under federal jurisdiction, but policing is a provincial responsibility. However, there is a national police force known by either its official English name Royal Canadian Mounted Police|RCMP (Royal Canadian Mounted Police) or its equally official French name GRC (Gendarmerie Royale du Canada). The RCMP/GRC is tasked with enforcing certain federal laws throughout the country, as well as anti-terrorism duties. They also perform domestic counter-espionage with the assistance of CSIS. Additionally, eight of the ten provinces choose to employ the RCMP/GRC under contract as their provincial police force rather than establishing their own police services; the exceptions are Ontario (Ontario Provincial Police) and Québec (Sûreté du Québec). Newfoundland has retained the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary for limited use, but still uses the RCMP/GRC for the majority of its provincial policing. In most provinces individual towns and cities are allowed, or required, by law to set up their own local police forces to provide policing inside their communities. Those municipalities (approx. 300 in total) which do not have their own police forces will contract instead either the RCMP/GRC (with the federal government absorbing some of the cost) or their provincial force to police the community.\n\nIn Mainland China, civilian police is mainly done by the \"\" branch within the Public Security organs, typically through local public security bureaus (PSBs) all under the Ministry of Public Security (MPS), with of assistance of the paramilitary force, the People's Armed Police (PAP). The People's Police has two other executive branches under the Ministry of State Security (MSS) and the Ministry of Justice (MOJ), as well as two Judicial Police branches under the Supreme People's Court (SPC) and the Supreme People's Procuratorate (SPP), while the PAP, including the China Coast Guard (CCG), is under the sole administration of the Central Military Commission (CMC) from 2018.\n\nThe National Police of Colombia (Spanish: Policía Nacional de Colombia) is the national police force of Colombia. Although the National Police is not part of the Military Forces of Colombia (Army, Navy, and Air Force), it constitutes along with them the \"Public Force\"[2] and is also controlled by the Ministry of Defense. Unlike many nations which use a tiered system of law enforcement, the National Police is the only civilian police force in Colombia. The force's official functions are to protect the Colombian nation, enforce the law by constitutional mandate, maintain and guarantee the necessary conditions for public freedoms and rights and to ensure peaceful cohabitation among the population.\nAnnual budget US$ 3.6 to 4 billion \nThere are 147.000 employees.\n\nThe main law enforcement agency in the Czech Republic is the \"Policie ČR\", charged with making arrests, investigating crimes, ensuring road and highway security, and other standard policing tasks. Directed by the \"Policejní prezident\", who holds a rank of colonel or general, policie officers hold ranks similar to those of the military. At the municipal level, city police (\"Městská policie\") are funded and directed locally. Sizes of local forces vary and officers have only limited law-enforcement powers, such as traffic enforcement; they can make arrests and must call on the national police to handle serious problems.\n\nThe main law enforcement agency is the Police of Denmark (da: \"Politiet\"), under the Danish Ministry of Justice, including 12 common police districts, the state nationwide police force \"Rigspolitiet\", the national intelligence service \"Politiets Efterretningstjeneste\" and the special tactical forces \"Politiets Aktionsstyrke\". Further more a Danish military police branch (da: \"Militærpolitiet\") and Danish home guard unit \"Politihjemmeværnet\" exists.\nLaw enforcement in Estonia is carried out by sections of the Estonian Police.\n\nLaw enforcement in Finland is under the jurisdiction of the Finnish Police. The National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) () is a national unit tasked with \"crime prevention and \nprovision of expert services.\"\n\nCivil protection, including counter-terrorism, is handled by The Finnish Security Intelligence Service (FSIS) ().\n\nGermany is a federal republic of sixteen States \"(Land)\". Each one of those States has its own police force called Landespolizei \"(State Police)\", that is providing the basic law enforcement and crime fighting. Each \"Landespolizei\" is supervised by the respective State Minister (or, in the City States of Bremen, Hamburg and Berlin, the Senator) of Internal Affairs.\n\nThe Federal authorities have law enforcement agencies as well:\n\nDepending on the state´s laws, the German cities also provide policing agencies like Stadtpolizei \"(Municipal Police)\" or Ordnungsamt (local bylaw agency).\n\nThe Hellenic Police Force (; ) is the police force of the Hellenic Republic. Tourism Police are an integral part of the Hellenic Police (ELAS), consisting of men and women specially trained and competent to offer tourists information and help, whenever they have any problems. They are trained in resolving minor differences between tourists and commercial enterprises. They all speak foreign languages, including English. They are distinguished by a shoulder badge displaying Tourism Police on their uniforms.\n\nThe Hong Kong Police Force () operate under local legislations and the Hong Kong Basic Law and within the traditional constabulary concept of preserving life and property, preventing and detecting crime and keeping the peace. For times of emergency the force has a paramilitary capability. The Commissioner of Police reports to the Secretary for Security, who is responsible for all disciplined services in Hong Kong.\n\nThe Icelandic Police (\"Lögreglan\") is Iceland's police force which is under the Ministry of the Interior. The National Commissioner is the overall commander, but he answers to the minister. The police is divided into 9 districts. Iceland also has a Directorate of Customs (\"Tollgæslan\"), whose job is to watch and guard imports and exports and more, which is under the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs. Icelandic police constables generally do not carry firearms, instead they carry telescopic batons and pepper spray.\nThe National Commissioner has a Special operations unit which is called the Viking Squad (\"Víkingasveitin\").\n\nIndia has numerous law enforcement agencies. At the federal Union level, the agencies are part of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, and support the states in their duties.\n\nSince the federal nature of the Constitution of India mandates law and order as a subject of the state, therefore the bulk of the police lies with respective States and union territories. Bigger cities also operate metropolitan police, also under the state. All senior police officers in the police as well as in the federal agencies are members of the Indian Police Service.\n\nThe national law enforcement of Indonesia is conducted by the Indonesian National Police abbreviated \"POLRI\" which is the legal national policing agency in Indonesia with its base in Jakarta. Law enforcement in Indonesia is operated by a National Police system with one national police chief controlling and managing police all over Indonesia with one head of command, he is known as \"Kapolri\" abbreviated from (\"Kepala Kepolisian Republik Indonesia\") meaning: \"Indonesian National Police Chief\" usually with the rank of Police General with four stars. Police in Indonesia are called as \"Polisi\" in Indonesian language. Police in Indonesia are operationally controlled by the Indonesian National Police Headquarters (\"Mabes Polri\") based in Jakarta and each province in Indonesia has a police base (\"Polda\") for jurisprudence in the province it operates. Law enforcement in Indonesia is based on the state constitution and is a legal law system of Indonesia until today.\n\nSpecial law enforcement operations such as counter-terrorism and other kind of high-threat policing are conducted by special police units of the Indonesian National Police such as the Mobile Brigade Corps (Brimob) and the Detachment 88 (Densus 88).\n\nOther law enforcement officials in Indonesia are also present which are apart from the Indonesian National Police, such as the Municipal Police (\"Satpol PP\") and the traffic warden, in Indonesia known as \"Dishub\" (abbreviation from \"Dinas Perhubungan\"). The Municipal Police (Satpol PP) are operated by the ministry of home affairs and their uniform color is Khaki. The traffic warden in Indonesia known as \"Dishub\" (abbreviation from \"Dinas Perhubungan\") are officials operated by the Ministry of Transportation which have duties to enforce law towards Transportation vehicles (Yellow plates) and take action towards Parking violations, they wear Blue uniforms during duty. \n\nThe Irish Police force, an Garda Síochána na hÉireann, translates to \"Guardians of the Peace of Ireland\". The state has one nationwide police force. All routinely uniformed officers are unarmed. The strength of the Garda Síochána is approximately 12,000 officers, of which 3,000 are licensed to carry firearms.\n\nThe Garda Síochána operates a number of specialist units including the GASU (Garda Air Support Unit, consisting of two helicopters and a BN-2A aircraft operated by the Irish Air Corps from Casement Aerodrome), Mounted Unit, Dog Unit, Public Order Unit and the anti-terrorism Special Detective Unit. It has a central command and control system for major city areas. Uniformed Gardaí wear stab-proof body armour and carry expandable ASP batons, handcuffs and pepper spray all introduced by the new Garda Inspectorate.\n\nArmed support units include the Regional Support Units (RSU) and the national Emergency Response Unit (ERU), which is comparable to American SWAT or British CO19 and operates a variety of lethal and non-lethal devices. All Gardaí (Police Officers) who train as detectives carry a sidearm.\n\nThe Israeli Police (\"Mishteret Yisra'el\") is the police force for the State of Israel. It is headed by the commissioner Rav-Nitzav Roni Alsheikh and falls under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Public Security. The Israeli Police has a military corps called the Border Guard (MAGAV), which has its own elite counter-terrorist units, as well as the Civil Guard (\"Mishmar Ezrahi\") made up of volunteers.\n\nLaw enforcement in Italy is carried out by different agencies. On a national level, five police forces operate. The \"Arma dei Carabinieri\" (gendarmerie), the \"Polizia di Stato\" (national police) and the \"Guardia di Finanza\" (customs police, border police and financial police); are the main forces. There are also the \"Corpo Forestale dello Stato\" (forestry police); \"Polizia Penitenziaria\" (prison service).\n\nThere are also \"Polizia Provinciale\" in all of the 109 provinces of Italy, and \"Polizia Municipale\" in every comune.\n\nThe \"Carabinieri\" and \"Guardia di Finanza\" are organized as a military force. In recent years, \"Carabinieri\" units have been dispatched all over the world in peacekeeping missions, including Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq.\n\nThe Grand Ducal Police (French: \"Police Grand-Ducale\"; Luxembourgish: \"Groussherzoglech Police\" or simply \"d'Police\") is since 1 January 2000 the sole law enforcement agency in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The Police is under the authority of the Luxem-bourgish Minister for Public Security, although it operates in the name, and under the ultimate (ceremonial) control of the head of state, HRH the Grand Duke of Luxembourg.\n\nPreviously, the Luxembourgish law enforcement agencies (as well as the Army) were under the command of the Minister of Public Force, a cabinet post which no longer exists.\n\nThe Grand Ducal Police was created in its current form on 1 January 2000, when the Grand Ducal Gendarmerie merged with the State-controlled local police forces.\n\nThe Grand Ducal Police is responsible for ensuring Luxembourg's internal security, fighting crime and corruption, maintaining law and order and enforcing all laws and Grand Ducal decrees. It is also responsible for assisting the Luxembourgish Army in its internal (war-time) operations, in accordance with the respective legislation and under the authority of the national Commander-in-Chief, HRH the Grand Duke.\n\nMunicipal regulations are enforced by \"Municipal agents\" (French: \"Agents municipaux\"; Luxembourgish: \"Gemengenagenten\"), who are partly uniformed but always unarmed municipal employees (no police officers) with strictly limited enforcement powers.\n\nLaw enforcement in Lithuania is the responsibility of a \"unified national police force under the jurisdiction of the Interior Ministry.\"[1] From the Police Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is led by the Police Commissar General, the police force branches out to the National and Municipal Police.\n\nThe National Police is composed of the criminal police, traffic police, public security force and public police.\nPolice in Japan are an apolitical body under the general supervision of an independent agency, the National Police Agency, and free of direct central government executive control. They are checked by an independent judiciary and monitored by a free and active press. The police are generally well respected and can rely on considerable public cooperation in their work.\n\nThe National Police Agency, or NPA, is the only police organization in South Korea and is run under the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. As a national police force it provides all policing services throughout the country. This differs from the situation in many countries including France, where policing is split between the National Police and \"Gendarmerie\", and between countries such as the United States which have a layered system of National, State/Regional and/or local Law Enforcement organizations.\n\nThe NPA is headquartered in Seoul and is divided into 14 local police agencies, including the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency. Local police agencies are not independent of the national police. There were 96,000 police officers .\n\nThere are two branches of police forces in Macau:\nIn addition, \"Serviços de Polícia Unitários\" (SPU - Unitary Police Service) leads, commands and coordinates the anti-crime operations carried out by CPSP and PJ.\n\nThe Royal Malaysian Police or \"Polis Diraja Malaysia\" in Malay is a main branch of security forces in Malaysia. Established on 25 March 1807, the force is a centralized organization that has a gamut of roles that ranges from traffic control to intelligence. Its headquarters is located in Bukit Aman, Kuala Lumpur and divided into 14 state police, including two on East Malaysia consist of Sabah State Police and Sarawak State Police. During the emergency period, the force is a major security forces to track down the communists.\n\nThe force has seven departments, which consist of 2 tasked on police management and logistic with 5 tasked for multi-crimes prevented, intelligence and security service. The riot control force known as Federal Reserve Unit makes up part of the police force.\n\nIn addition to the Federal Reserve Unit, the Police maintains 2 paramilitary divisions: the General Operations Forces, which includes the Senoi Praaq which grew out of the Emergency Jungle Squads, and the special force: the Pasukan Gerakan Khas (Abbreviation: PGK; Special Operations Command; SOCOM of Federal Police), which includes the VAT 69 Police Commandos and UTK. VAT 69 commando battalion is the special force based on by SAS for fight against the communist threats and the Special Action Units \"(Malay: Unit Tindakan Khas)\", which is modelled on SWAT teams for dangerous crimes prevented and close protections. Besides, the force also created the maritime police special forces known as Police Combat Diving Unit or \"Unit Selam Tempur\", who tasked the security of Straits of Malacca, Sulu Sea and South China Sea from the piracy activities and terrorism.\n\nThe Rakan Cop is the Malaysian community police which was launched in 2006.\n\nMost police forces in Mexico can be classified into two general types based on their primary function. They tend to operate as \"policia judicial\" (judicial police) or \"policia preventiva\" (preventive police). The basic difference being that the \"policia judicial\" are usually under the administration of the judicial branch of government (i.e., judges, attorneys general, etc.), whereas the \"policia preventiva\" tend to be administered by legislative or executive branches of government (i.e., mayors, or city councils). Historically, the judicial police would investigate crimes that have already occurred, and preventive police would focus their efforts on preventing crimes (by active presence on the streets and random patrols). In recent decades these differences have been blurred considerably.\n\nMexican law enforcement agencies, vary from state to state but usually have the hierarchy mentioned below:\n\n\nThe Moroccan police is called \"Sûreté Nationale\". It is tasked with upholding the law and public order. It works alongside the \"Gendarmerie Royale\".\n\nThe Dutch national police is a government agency charged with upholding the law and public order and providing aid. It is also the investigation service for the Attorney General of the Judiciary. Police duties at airports are provided by the KMAR (Royal Gendarmerie)\n\nThe New Zealand Police are charged with enforcing law in New Zealand. They are a single national police force with a broad policing role (community safety, law enforcement & road safety). New Zealand police officers do not normally carry firearms, although access to firearms is available when circumstances dictate. Specialised units of the New Zealand Police such as the Armed Offenders Squad, a SWAT type unit and the Special Tactics Group are also operational for different scenarios that might arise. New Zealand Police works with other government agencies and non-government groups to achieve the best safety outcomes for all New Zealanders.\n\nThe police in Nigeria is called the Nigerian Police Force. It is under the control of the federal government - there is no state controlled police in Nigeria. It is tasked with upholding the law and public order.\n\nThe Norwegian national police force () is subordinate to the Ministry of Justice and Police. The Politiet is divided into 27 regional police departments and seven nationwide special departments. In total the force has about 11,000 employees, with the Oslo police precinct, as the largest, accounting for 2,300.\n\nOfficers of the Norwegian police usually do not carry firearms, making the force one of the few unarmed police organizations in the world. They are instead armed with telescopic batons and pepper spray. \n\nThe police in Pakistan are under the control of the province they work in, with each police having jurisdiction in its own province and its leadership headquartered in the provinces capital. A separate traffic police department exists for managing traffic and is also a provincial force. Only the capital city police are an exception, and is under federal government control with its own setup. In Punjab a counter terror unit eliteforce within the Punjab Police was created in 1998.\nA separate paramilitary organization in the eastern provinces (Punjab and Sindh) known as the Rangers exist for providing security in the country and to assist the police whenever needed. They also under the control of the province they work in. Their equivalents in the western provinces (Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) are the Frontier Corps (FC). \n\nThe Royal Papua New Guinea Constabulary is the name of the Police force in Papua New Guinea. There are also 20 mobile squads paramilitary under the Special Services Division of the Royal Papua New Guinea Constabulary which is headed by a Director. The Director reports to the Assistant Commissioner who reports to the three deputy Commissioners who are under the Commissioner of Police.\n\nThe national police force in Peru is called Policía Nacional del Perú or PNP. They are the state police force, but serve many of the same roles in the cities that local police forces assume in other countries, such as traffic control at intersections. Peruvian cities (or Lima-area districts) each have their own \"Serenazgo\" forces, which perform patrol duties like a neighborhood watch and call upon the PNP as needed.\n\nThe Local Government Code of the Philippines mandates the Barangays to enforce peace and order and provide\nsupport for the effective enforcement of human rights and justice, resolving and/or mediating conflict at the barangay\nlevel through non-adversarial means. Recourse to this Barangay Justice System is required, with some specific exceptions, as a pre-condition before filing a complaint in court or any government offices.\n\nAt the national level, law enforcement in the Philippines is handled by two agencies: the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI). Community policing is done by un-armed barangay tanods who are hired and supervised by their local barangays, the smallest elected government in the Philippines. Barangay Tanods are often described as volunteers but they do receive in some places small stipends and benefits such as health care. They have some limited training.\n\nLaw enforcement agencies:\n\nThere are three main police forces in Portugal:\nThere are also other smaller specialized police services, like the \"Autoridade de Segurança Alimentar e Económica\" (ASAE – Food and Economic Safety Authority), the \"Polícia Marítima\" (Maritime Police), the \"Serviço de Estrangeiros e Fronteiras\" (SEF – Foreign and Border Service) and the \"polícias municipais\" (municipal police).\n\nThe Romanian police is based on a blue shirt and some black pants.It is a normal outfit but differents people which suits the same outfit everyday.Romanian police has for patrol:Dacia Logan,BMW or VolfsWagen.\n\nThe police in Russia are called полиция (\"Politsiya\"). The Police is operating under MVD, and currently the police is under wide reform.\n\nUntil 2011 the police was called милиция (\"Militsiya\"). This change of name started at the Russian Revolution via a Communist political idea of \"replacing the capitalist police by a people's militia\"; but the name \"militsiya\" has persisted after the Communist system collapsed.\n\nThe standard Russian police baton is made of rubber. The normal service uniform is black with red piping and hat band. Fur hats and heavy greatcoats are worn in winter.\n\nThe Singapore Police Force (Abbreviation: SPF) is the main agency tasked with maintaining law and order in the city-state. Formerly known as the Republic of Singapore Police.\n\nLaw enforcement in Slovenia is the responsibility of the Slovenian National Police force, which is composed of 11 police directorates.\n\nThe South African Police Service is responsible for providing policing services to the public of South Africa at 1115 police stations, divided across nine provinces.\n\nPolicing in Spain is carried out by a combination of national, regional and local bodies.\n\nThe national police service in Sri Lanka is Sri Lanka Police. The elite Police Counter-Terrorist force the Special Task Force has taken security duties around the island.\n\nThe Swedish Police Authority (in Swedish: \"Polismyndigheten\", but is usually referred to as \"Polisen\") is the central administrative authority responsible for the Swedish police that operates under the Ministry of Justice. The Swedish Police Authority replaced the National Police Board in 2015. Due to the 2015 reform of the police, the Swedish Security Service became a separate entity under the Ministry of Justice, instead of previously being part of the National Police Board. The reform also resulted in Rikskriminalpolisen (National Criminal Investigations Department) being dissolved and its duties transferred to the National Operations Department. The 21 police regions that were established according to the Counties of Sweden prior to the reform were replaced by six police regions, which were instead divided into 27 local police districts.\n\nSwedish police officers are always armed with a 9 mm Sig Sauer handgun, a telescopic baton and a can of pepper spray.\n\nThe Swedish Police Authority maintains three well-trained SWAT elements, the first being the elite counter-terrorism National Task Force which is the equivalent of Germany's GSG 9 and the French GIGN. The second unit being the Reinforced Regional Task Force (previously known as Piketen), which is trained to handle riot control, hostage situations and high-risk arrests in three of Sweden's major cities; Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The third element is composed of small, less well-equipped special response units under the jurisdictions of their respective local police districts, they are simply called Regional Task Forces, and they serve officially under the Reinforced Regional Task Force.\n\nThe police in Switzerland is mainly the responsibility of the 26 cantons, although both federal and local police forces also exist.\n\nThe Taiwanese police is a national police force. It has an elite Special Forces unit known as the Thunder Squad. It is trained for dealing with dangerous and high-risk missions, as well as counter-terrorism due to the potential military threat from the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe Royal Thai Police are subdivided into several regions and services, each enjoying their own powers.\n\nLaw enforcement is Turkey is carried out by five separate bodies. The Turkish National Police () is the civilian police, under the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The Gendarmerie () is a branch of the Turkish Armed Forces responsible only for policing the civilian population. Provost services are provided by the Military Police (). The Turkish Coast Guard () is also branch of the Armed Forces, responsible for search and rescue and maritime border protection. The National Intelligence Organization () is responsible for internal security. Some limited local law enforcement is carried out by village guards.\n\nThe single law enforcement in Vietnam is called the Vietnam People's Public Security, which answers to the Ministry of Public Security.\nLaw enforcement in the United Arab Emirates is divided between regionally with each Emirate having its own independent police force. For example, the Abu Dhabi Police has jurisdiction within the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.\n\nWidely regarded as the home of the first modern police force, law enforcement in the United Kingdom is based on the long-standing philosophy of policing by consent. Policing and law enforcement are organised separately in each of the legal systems of the United Kingdom as a result of devolution of powers to Scotland, Northern Ireland and, to a lesser extent, London.\n\nEngland and Wales have 43 local police forces (formerly known as constabularies), each of which covers a 'police area' (a particular county, grouping of counties or metropolitan area). Since 2012, 41 of these forces have their own directly elected Police and Crime Commissioner, under the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011. The two exceptions are in London, where the Metropolitan Police is accountable to the directly elected Mayor via the Office for Policing and Crime, and the much smaller City of London Police that retains the Common Council of the City as its police authority.\n\nScotland now has a single national force – the Police Service of Scotland (Scottish Gaelic: Seirbheis Phoilis na h-Alba), commonly known as Police Scotland. It replaced eight former territorial police forces and the Scottish Crime and Drug Enforcement Agency in April 2013 and is overseen by the Scottish Police Authority, under the terms of the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012.\n\nThe Police Service of Northern Ireland (Irish: Seirbhís Póilíneachta Thuaisceart Éireann, Ulster Scots: Polis Servis o Norlin Airlan) serves Northern Ireland, succeeding the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) in 2001. Following the Police (Northern Ireland) Act 2000, the PSNI is supervised by the Northern Ireland Policing Board (Irish: Bord Póilíneachta Thuaisceart Éireann, Ulster-Scots: Norlin Airlan Polisin Boord), who are themselves appointed since 2007 by the Minister of Justice (Northern Ireland) using the Nolan principles for public appointments.\n\nFrom October 2013 the National Crime Agency (NCA) operates as the United Kingdom's first national law enforcement agency. Replacing the existing Serious Organised Crime Agency and Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre, as well as assuming some of the responsibilities of the UK Border Agency, but not counter-terrorism, for the first time it will have authority for \"tasking and coordination\" investigative work to local forces under the Crime and Courts Act 2013.\n\nThere are also three special police forces that have a specific, non-regional jurisdiction – the British Transport Police, Civil Nuclear Constabulary, Ministry of Defence Police. Over the centuries there has been a wide variation in the number of police forces operating within the UK, most of which now no longer exist, see list of former police forces in the United Kingdom. A few miscellaneous constabularies with responsibility mostly founded on old legislation to police specific local areas, such as ports and parks, have escaped police reform. Lastly, a number of government bodies that are not police forces have detective powers and enforce laws, such as the Marine and Fisheries Agency and UK Border Agency, who employ officers with limited powers of detention and search but generally cannot make full arrests.\n\nThe majority of British police are never routinely armed, relying on an extendable baton and in some cases Tasers, with specialist armed units always on patrol and called in only when necessary. The exceptions are the Ministry of Defence Police, the Civil Nuclear Constabulary and the Police Service of Northern Ireland which are routinely armed.\n\nUniquely in Britain, there are police forces of Crown Dependencies such as the Isle of Man and States of Jersey and Guernsey, who have police forces that share resources with the UK police, whilst having a separate administration within their own governments. The British Overseas Territories, have their own police forces which are generally based on the British model of policing.\n\nIn the United States, the FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation) and other federal agencies such as the United States Secret Service, US Marshals, United States Park Police, United States Capitol Police, and the United States Pentagon Police are limited to the enforcement of federal laws and usually specialize in certain crimes or duties, but do enforce some state laws. Most crimes constitutionally fall under the jurisdiction of state police or the thousands of local police forces. These include county police or sheriff's departments as well as municipal or city police forces. Many areas also have special agencies such as campus police, railroad police, housing police, or a district or precinct constable.\nThe International Police is a functional organization made up of police officers from all over the world, serving mostly under the direction of the United Nations, to help train, recruit, and field police forces in war torn countries. The force is usually deployed into a war torn country initially acting as the police, and bringing order. In the process, they recruit and train a local police force, which eventually takes on the responsibilities of enforcing the law and maintaining order, whereas the International Police then take on a supporting role. To date, International Police forces have been deployed to East Timor, Haiti, Kosovo, Bosnia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Sudan, Liberia, Croatia, and Macedonia, among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "39408849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39408849", "title": "Laze language", "text": "Laze language\n\nLaze, rendered in Chinese as Lare (拉热) and Shuitianhua (水田话), is a language of the Naish subbranch of the Naic group of languages, spoken in Muli County, western Sichuan, China.\n\nLaze is spoken by less than 300 fluent speakers in Xiangjiao township 项脚乡, Muli prefecture, Sichuan, China (Michaud & Jacques 2012).\n\nThe name \"Laze\" (IPA: ) is likely to be a place name.\n\nPublications are available on: \n\nRecordings in Laze are available from the Pangloss Collection (an online archive of languages).\n"}
{"id": "33739760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33739760", "title": "List of LGBT slang terms", "text": "List of LGBT slang terms\n\nThis is a list of slang and/or insulting terms for LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) people.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1583078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1583078", "title": "List of gairaigo and wasei-eigo terms", "text": "List of gairaigo and wasei-eigo terms\n\nThis is a selected list of \"gairaigo\", Japanese words originating or based on foreign language (generally Western) terms, including \"wasei-eigo\" (Japanese pseudo-Anglicisms).\n\nMany of these words derive from Portuguese, due to Portugal's early role in Japanese-Western interaction; Dutch, due to the Netherlands' relationship with Japan amidst the policy of \"sakoku\" during the Edo period; and from French and German, due to France and Germany's cultural and scientific prominence during Japan's modernization in the Meiji period.\n\nHowever, most come from English, the dominant world language today. Due to the large number of western concepts imported into Japanese culture during modern times, there are thousands of these English borrowings. These English words are informally referred to as having been \"Nipponized\". \n\nJapanese vocabulary also includes large numbers of words from Chinese, borrowed at various points throughout history. However, since the Japanese language has such strong historical ties to the Chinese language, these loans are not generally considered \"gairaigo\". \nMany loan words are in fact \"pseudo-borrowings\": despite their links to foreign language words, the word forms as used in modern Japanese are not used in the same way in their languages of origin. In fact, many such terms, despite their similarity to the original foreign words, are not easily understood by speakers of those languages (e.g. \"left over\" as a baseball term for a hit that goes over the left-fielder's head, rather than uneaten food saved for a later meal as in English—or \"famikon\" ファミコン from \"Family computer\", which actually refers to the Nintendo Entertainment System).\n\nSee the list of Japanese terms mistaken for gairaigo for details of words or terms mistaken for foreign loan words and false cognates.\n\nDue to the extent of Japanese borrowings, particularly from English, this list focuses mainly on pseudo-borrowings and commonly used loan words from languages other than English (which are often mistaken for English words in Japan). Most loan words (and all modern loans) are transcribed in Katakana, a kana (Japanese syllabary) whose usage approximates English italics. Older loans may be written using Ateji, with Kanji used to represent their phonetic readings without necessarily inheriting their meaning. In words composed of both a loan and native Japanese, the Japanese can function as a morpheme within a compound (and would generally be written in Kanji if possible), or can be attached to the foreign word to inflect or otherwise modify it, as if it were okurigana (which is written in Hiragana).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46520271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46520271", "title": "List of travelers", "text": "List of travelers\n\nThis is a list of notable travelers, consisting of people that are known for their travels or explorations. Travel is the movement of people between relatively distant geographical locations, and can involve travel by foot, bicycle, automobile, train, boat, airplane, or other means, and can be one way or round trip. Travel can also include relatively short stays between successive movements.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23722415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23722415", "title": "Logir people", "text": "Logir people\n\nThe Logir are an ethnic group numbering a few thousand people living in Eastern Equatoria state, South Sudan.They are part of the Eastern Nilotes who were originally staying in the present land Ethiopia, precisely on an area on top of Lake Turkana. They then moved to South Sudan after being displaced by the Oromia of Ethiopia. They came to Stay at their present place on top of Uganda where they found the Madi people.\n"}
{"id": "29645585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29645585", "title": "Lonnie Athens", "text": "Lonnie Athens\n\nLonnie Athens was senior research criminologist at Georgetown University Law Center and now teaches in the criminology department at Seton Hall University. Athens developed a theory called \"The Process of Violentization\".\n\nBorn in Richmond, Virginia, Athens lived with his parents, Irene and Pete Athens. He was educated at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, where he started majoring in political science but later changed his major to Sociology and Criminology. After graduating from Virginia Tech, Athens continued his criminology studies at the University of Wisconsin.\n\nAfter college Athens continued to interview inmates about their criminal lives and social experiences. He based his study on George Herbert Mead, a philosopher who tried understanding how organisms acquire different traits. Athens focused on the areas of Iowa and California for his interviews. He also worked as a probation and parole officer in northern Virginia in 1986. He took all of his findings and his studies and put them together in the book, \"The Creation of Dangerous Violent Criminals\", in which he discusses his theory and the cases he had to look at along the way. Athens now teaches criminology at Seton Hall University.\n\nAthens developed a theory known as \"The Process of Violentization\" which describes four stages in the development of violent actors.\n\nStage 1 Brutalization: Within this stage, the individual engages in violent demeanor through observation and demonstration. This stage is divided into three types of experiences: 1) violent subjugation-personally assaulted or threatened 2) personal horrification-witness others assaulted or threatened 3) violent coaching-taught how to execute violent behavior.\n\nStage 2 Belligerency: In this stage, the subject reinforces his warlike attitude to the situation by a method of different steps. With this repeating behavior they get emotionally attached to what they are doing. Because of this emotional attachment, the individual resorts to violence as a means to control and dominate others any time they are provoked. \n\nStage 3 Violent Performances: After surpassing the previous two stages, the individual executes violent behavior towards subordinates. In this stage, they begin to feel most comfortable with what they are doing because they start to gain respect, celebrity status, and fear from others.\nStage 4 Virulency\"': \"This stage defines the individual as violent and dangerous in which they use violence to gain control of others, earn respect, instill fear, and make others feel powerless, shamed, and humiliated; feelings that they avoid and no longer feel in themselves. The individual has created a violent self-image for himself/herself.[3]\n\nTypes of Interpretations \nAthens explained the four types of interpretations and linked primary emotions related to violence. \n1) Physical defensive: Fear based and focus on how a physical attack is or will be made\n\n2) Frustrative: Anger based by which they individual notices resistance and action he/she does not want to execute.\n\n3) Malefic: hate based in which the individual views the negative character of others and utilizes violence as his/her response.\n\n4) Frustrative-Malefic: Hatred and anger based.\n\n\nAdditional References\n1) Mark A. Winton. 2011. “Violentization Theory and Genocide.” Homicide Studies 15 (4) 363-381. \n\nExternal Links \nhttps://books.google.com/books?id=Int6ozC_HLIC&pg=PA63&lpg=PA63&dq=identify+and+describe+the+four+stages+of+violentization&source=bl&ots=1jLUVazty8&sig=1FCLJyQkjbU-ADsFKpRGMaUdBFc&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiUjqax8r3eAhURHHwKHWbhAP84ChDoATAJegQIBxAB#v=onepage&q=identify%20and%20describe%20the%20four%20stages%20of%20violentization&f=false\n\n6. Mark A. Winton. 2011. “Violentization Theory and Genocide.” Homicide Studies 15 (4) 363-381. \n\nExternal Links \n• https://books.google.com/books?id=Int6ozC_HLIC&pg=PA63&lpg=PA63&dq=identify+and+describe+the+four+stages+of+violentization&source=bl&ots=1jLUVazty8&sig=1FCLJyQkjbU-ADsFKpRGMaUdBFc&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiUjqax8r3eAhURHHwKHWbhAP84ChDoATAJegQIBxAB#v=onepage&q=identify%20and%20describe%20the%20four%20stages%20of%20violentization&f=false\n"}
{"id": "30200713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30200713", "title": "Macehualtin", "text": "Macehualtin\n\nThe mācēhualtin (IPA: , singular \"mācēhualli\" ) were the commoner social class in the Mexica Empire, commonly referred to as the Aztec Empire.\n\nThe Aztec social class of the \"mācēhualtin\" were rural farmers, forming the majority of the commoners in the Mexica Empire. The \"mācēhualtin\" worked lands that belonged to the social unit of the calpolli called chinampas, with each family maintaining rights to the land so long as it did not lie fallow for more than two years. Within these lands, the rural \"mācēhualtin\" constructed small dams and terraces to increase their agricultural yield. Crops common to Mexican agriculture were grown on these plots, including maize, beans and squash. These projects were probably organized by the local communities and were not state led. From their produce and productivity, the \"mācēhualtin\" were required to pay tribute to the Aztec nobility.\n\nDuring the reign of Moctezuma II (1502–1520), they were banned from serving in the royal palaces, as this monarch widened the divide between \"pipiltin\" (nobles) and \"macehualtin\". However, before his reign it was noted that there was some mobility, though uncommon, within the social classes. Those who moved up and became \"pipiltin\" were called \"yaotequihua\". Those who were brought down ranks in spite of birth status as \"pipiltin\" were called \"pillaquistiltin. Macehualtin\" could also become or sell their children into slavery.\n\nThis possibility for social mobility was relatively uncommon due to the locative view of the world held by the Aztecs. This point of view emphasized the idea that everyone and everything had a correct place in the world. It was almost a moral imperative to find one's place and conform to its requirements. This logic extended to social class, with the \"pipiltin\" being viewed as having trained to rule the rest of society, specifically made by the Aztec gods for this purpose, and the \"macehualtin\" being viewed as having been made to work for the benefit of society. Rituals, teachings, and many other aspects of Aztec society helped to reinforce this worldview. Inequality among the social classes was further reinforced by societal institutions such as a differential set of laws for the commoners and those of the upper class. This differential set of laws was harsher towards the nobility than towards the commoners for a comparable offense.\n\nAs Aztec society was in part centered on warfare, every Aztec male received some sort of basic military training from an early age. Typically by the time the child reached three years of age, the boy would begin to take simple instruction at the hands of his father on the tasks expected of men, no matter what social class they fell into. The only extremely slim possibility of possible upwards social mobility for \"mācēhualtin\" was through military achievement. The taking of captives (\"māltin\" , singular \"mālli\") marked an important transition into status as a full warrior, was the way for soldiers to move up the social ladder, and it continued to be a source of honor throughout a man's tenure as a warrior. Failure to take captives or perform well in battle later in life would be a source of dishonor for the warriors. While this would negatively impact warriors who were \"mācēhualtin\", it would be a worse social blow for members of the nobility, although not as materially damaging.\n\nThe \"mācēhualtin\" children attended the \"telpochcalli\" or \"House of Youths\" beginning at fifteen years of age. This was a school for both boys and girls, but the girls and boys learned separately. In the \"telpochcalli,\" the young men learned martial arts and other aspects of Aztec warfare. They spent a great deal of time engaged in physical labor around the school and around the community in order to build the young men's strength. Some activities such as hauling firewood eventually took the form of a test of physical prowess as larger and larger loads of firewood were given to the young men; such youths would have to face greater burdens when they took to the battlefield. While the young men prepared to become warriors for the Aztec Empire, the young Aztec women attended the \"cuicalco\" or \"House of Song\", a subdivision of the \"telpochcalli.\" Here they learned ritual arts like dance and song.\n\nDivisions based on gender prominently affected children among the \"mācēhualtin.\" An emphasis on gender divisions began at birth, not just with schooling. Some early rituals differed between newborn boys and newborn girls. For the male children, symbolic actions like giving the umbilical cord to warriors to bury in fields where battles might take place emphasized their role as future warriors. For the female children, symbolic actions like burying the umbilical cord near the hearth emphasized the female role in the home.\n\nAfter the Spanish conquest, the Nahuatl word \"mācēhualli\" was adopted in colonial Spanish as \"macehual\", and was used all over New Spain as a synonym for \"commoner,\" \"subject,\" and \"native.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5232304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5232304", "title": "Madame Royale", "text": "Madame Royale\n\nMadame Royale (, \"Royal Lady\") was a style customarily used for the eldest living unmarried daughter of a reigning French monarch. \n\nIt was similar to the style \"Monsieur\", which was typically used by the King's second son. Just as Gaston, duc d'Orléans (1608–1660), the second son of King Henry IV of France (1553–1610), was known as \" Monsieur\", Elisabeth of Bourbon (1602–1644), the eldest daughter of Henry, was known before her marriage to King Philip IV of Spain (1605–1665) as \"Madame Royale\". After her death, the title was borne by her younger sister, Christine Marie of France (1606–1663), until her marriage to Victor Amadeus I, Duke of Savoy (1587–1637).\nThe most famous holder of this honorific was King Louis XVI of France's eldest daughter, Marie-Thérèse-Charlotte (1778–1851), the only one of his immediate family to survive the French Revolution. She later married her cousin, Louis-Antoine, duc d'Angoulême (1775–1844), and played a prominent role during the Bourbon Restoration.\n\nThe style \"Madame Royale\" was not regulated by any other code than that of etiquette. Its very simplicity, however, was considered more desirable than being known more formally as \"Son Altesse Royale\" (\"Your Royal Highness\") in conversation.\n\nThe style was customarily held until the death of the royal parent or until the princess married. \n\nThe equivalent style in Great Britain is \"Princess Royal\". This title came into existence when Queen Henrietta Maria (1609–1669), another daughter of King Henry IV of France, and the wife of King Charles I of England (1600–1649), wanted to imitate in the Kingdom of England the way in which the eldest daughter of the sovereign in France was styled \"Madame Royale.\"\n\nIn Savoy, Henrietta Maria's older sister, Christine Marie of France, became known as Madama Reale in reference to her French manner of address. Her daughter-in-law, Marie Jeanne of Savoy, when she became regent of Savoy after the early death of her husband, called herself Madama Reale, after her mother-in-law, who had also been a regent of Savoy. This was despite the fact that Marie Jeanne's father was not a king. \n\n"}
{"id": "58805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58805", "title": "Malayo-Polynesian languages", "text": "Malayo-Polynesian languages\n\nThe Malayo-Polynesian languages are a subgroup of the Austronesian languages, with approximately 385.5 million speakers. The Malayo-Polynesian languages are spoken by the Austronesian people of the island nations of Southeast Asia and the Pacific Ocean, with a smaller number in continental Asia, going well into the Malay peninsula. Cambodia and Vietnam serve as the northwest geographic outlier. On the northernmost geographical outlier does not pass beyond the north of Pattani, which is located in southern Thailand. Malagasy is spoken in the island of Madagascar located off the eastern coast of Africa in the Indian Ocean. Part of the language family shows a strong influence of Sanskrit and particularly Arabic as the Western part of the region has been a stronghold of Hinduism, Buddhism, and, since the 10th century, Islam.\n\nTwo morphological characteristics of the Malayo-Polynesian languages are a system of affixation and the reduplication (repetition of all or part of a word, such as \"wiki-wiki)\" to form new words. Like other Austronesian languages they have small phonemic inventories; thus a text has few but frequent sounds. The majority also lack consonant clusters (e.g., [str] in English). Most also have only a small set of vowels, five being a common number.\n\nThe Nuclear Malayo-Polynesian languages are spoken by about 230 million people and include Malay (Indonesian and Malaysian), Sundanese, Javanese, Buginese, Balinese, Acehnese; and also the Oceanic languages, including Tolai, Gilbertese, Fijian, and Polynesian languages such as Hawaiian, Māori, Samoan, Tahitian, and Tongan. Malay is also the native language in Singapore and Brunei.\n\nThe Philippine languages are the most linguistically archaic branch of the Malayo-Polynesian language family, and are spoken by around 100 million people between Orchid Island Taiwan, the entire Philippine archipelago, and Sulawesi Indonesia. Philippine languages include Tagalog (Filipino), Cebuano, Ilokano, Hiligaynon, Central Bikol, Waray, and Kapampangan, each with at least three million speakers.\n\nIn Northern Borneo, the most widely spoken language is Kadazan-Dusun, with over 200,000+ speakers and Lundayeh Language is the one of the minority language in south-western Sabah and in northern Sarawak.\n\nThe Malayo-Polynesian languages share several phonological and lexical innovations with the eastern Formosan languages, including the leveling of proto-Austronesian *t, *C to /t/ and *n, *N to /n/, a shift of *S to /h/, and vocabulary such as *lima \"five\" which are not attested in other Formosan languages. However, it does not align with any one branch.\n\nMalayo-Polynesian consists of a large number of small local language clusters, with the one exception being Oceanic, the only large group which is universally accepted; its parent language Proto-Oceanic has been reconstructed in all aspects of its structure (phonology, lexicon, morphology and syntax). All other large groups within Malayo-Polynesian are controversial.\n\nThe most influential proposal for the internal subgrouping of the Malayo-Polynesian languages was made Robert Blust who presented several papers advocating a division into two major branches, viz. Western Malayo-Polynesian and Central-Eastern Malayo-Polynesian.\n\nCentral-Eastern Malayo-Polynesian is widely accepted as a subgroup, although some objections have been raised against its validity as a genetic subgroup. On the other hand, Western Malayo-Polynesian is now generally held (including by Blust himself) to be an umbrella term without genetic relevance. Taking into account the Central-Eastern Malayo-Polynesian hypothesis, the Malayo-Polynesian languages can be divided into the following subgroups (proposals for larger subgroups are given below):\n\n\nThe position of the recently \"rediscovered\" Nasal language (spoken on Sumatra) is still unclear, but it shares most features of its lexicon and phonological history with either Lampung or Rejang.\n\nThe Malayo-Sumbawan languages are a proposal by Adelaar (2005) which unites the Malayo-Chamic languages, the Bali-Sasak-Sumbawa languages, Madurese and Sundanese into a single subgroup based on phonological and lexical evidence.\n\nThe Greater North Borneo hypothesis, which unites all languages spoken on Borneo except for the Barito languages together with the Malayo-Chamic languages, Rejang and Sundanese into a single subgroup, was first proposed by Blust (2010) and further elaborated by Smith (2017, 2017a).\n\n\nBecause of the inclusion of Malayo-Chamic and Sundanese, the Greater North Borneo hypothesis is incompatible with Adelaar's Malayo-Sumbawan proposal. Consequently, Blust explicitly rejects Malayo-Sumbawan as a subgroup. The Greater North Borneo subgroup is based solely on lexical evidence.\n\nBased on a proposal initially brought forward by Blust (2010) as an extension of the Greater North Borneo hypothesis, Smith (2017) unites several Malayo-Polynesian subgroups in a \"Western Indonesian\" group, thus greatly reducing the number of primary branches of Malayo-Polynesian:\n\n\nZobel (2002) proposes a Nuclear Malayo-Polynesian subgroup, based on putative shared innovations in the Austronesian alignment and syntax found throughout Indonesia apart from much of Borneo and the north of Sulawesi. This subgroup comprises the languages of the Greater Sunda Islands (Malayo-Chamic, Northwest Sumatran, Lampung, Sundanese, Javanese, Madurese, Bali-Sasak-Sumbawa) and most of Sulawesi (Celebic, South Sulawesi), Palauan, Chamorro and the Central–Eastern Malayo-Polynesian languages. This hypothesis is one of the few attempts to link certain Western Malayo-Polynesian languages with the Central-Eastern Malayo-Polynesian languages in a higher intermediate node, but has received little further scholarly attention.\n\n"}
{"id": "37389230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37389230", "title": "Maltese Sign Language", "text": "Maltese Sign Language\n\nMaltese Sign Language (, LSM) is a young sign language of Malta. It developed into its modern form c. 1980 with the establishment of the first deaf club in Malta and subsequently with its use in education for the deaf. LSM's prior history is unrecorded, though there are some signs which indicate contact with British Sign Language (Malta was a British colony until 1964). These signs are relatively few, however, and LSM is not part of the BSL family (Brentari 2010).\n\nMaria Galea has described the use of SignWriting when used to write Maltese Sign Language.\n\nThe Maltese public broadcaster PBS Ltd. began airing a nightly newscast in LSM on its TVM2 network in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1437567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1437567", "title": "Nippy", "text": "Nippy\n\nA nippy was a waitress who worked in the J. Lyons & Co tea shops and cafés in London. Beginning in the late 19th century, a J. Lyons waitress was called a \"Gladys\". From 1926, because the waitresses nipped (moved quickly) around the tea shops, the term \"Nippy\" came into use. Nippies wore a distinctive maid-like uniform with a matching hat.\n\nBy the 1920s it was already long established in the advertising world that attractive females could sell products, and the tea business of J. Lyons & Co was no exception. Nippies appeared in all manner of advertising, on product packages, and on promotional items. The Nippy soon became a national icon. Unlike other endorsements of the day, which often took the form of popular celebrities or cartoon characters, a Nippy was accessible and close to home. A Nippy was someone who could be seen and interacted with every day, and perhaps this was part of the appeal of the concept. J. Lyons was very careful to maintain the Nippy image as wholesome and proper — strict cleanliness standards applied for Nippy uniforms, and before World War II J. Lyons would not hire married women as Nippies. So popular was the image that miniature Nippy outfits were popular for children dressing up for special events such as fetes.\n\nIn the mid-1930s, for example in Brighton, a Nippy worked 54 hours per week (11.45 a.m. to 11.45 p.m.), for 26 shillings per week (£1.30), with 2/6d (two shillings and sixpence, £0.125) extra for working at weekends. She had to pay for the laundering of her uniform, which was made of bombazine-type material with red buttons from the neck downwards.\n\nIn an episode of the sitcom \"Are You Being Served?\" entitled \"The Junior\", the character Mrs. Slocombe was embarrassed that she used to work as a nippy.\n\nIn Dorothy Sayers's 1927 mystery novel \"Unnatural Death\", when a young woman's body is found the \"Daily Yell\" newspaper prints the story under the headline \"'Nippy' Found Dead in Epping Forest.\" \n\nIn 1930, the nippy concept was adapted into a hit musical comedy called \"Nippy\", produced at the Golders Green Hippodrome. Popular actress Binnie Hale played the nippy in question. The book was written by Arthur Wimperis and Austin Melford, Billy Mayerl wrote the music, and Wimperis and Frank Eyton wrote the lyrics. Several records were released with songs from the musical, such as the title song and the lively \"The Toy Town Party\" sung in the show by Hale. Another of Mayerl's lesser known but attractive melodies from the show was \"It Must Be You\".\n"}
{"id": "17194620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17194620", "title": "Omid Tahvili", "text": "Omid Tahvili\n\nOmid Tahvili, () (born on 31 October 1970, in Tehran, Iran,) is an Iranian-Canadian gangster who is the kingpin of an organized crime family in Canada which is connected to various international crime organizations. \nIn April 2008, Forbes.com, after consulting with law enforcement agencies around the world, listed him as one of the world's ten most wanted fugitives.\n\nAccording to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), Tahvili came to Canada from Iran in 1994. In November 2000, he was arrested with his brother-in-law for possession of of cocaine, in a joint operation between the Vancouver Police and the RCMP. Tahvili was found not guilty. By 2003, the RCMP recognized Tahvili as heading up one of the main criminal organizations operating out of an Iranian community in Canada. At that time, dozens of Iranian expatriates were working under him.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2002, he ran a fraudulent telemarketing business that targeted people in the United States, stealing approximately US$3 million from hundreds of victims, most of them elderly. A federal arrest warrant was issued for Tahvili on January 30, 2003 by the U.S. District Court, Central District of California, where he was charged with mail fraud, wire fraud, telemarketing fraud and aiding and abetting.\n\nTahvili was arrested in British Columbia on an extradition warrant and Tahvili was eventually ordered extradited to the United States of America by the British Columbia Supreme Court on May 4, 2007. Tahvili had been represented by Canadian criminal and extradition lawyer Amandeep Singh, known for his representation of high profile and controversial international clientele such as billionaire banker fugitive Rakesh Saxena. Tahvili appealed his extradition order to the British Columbia Court of Appeal and was awaiting his appeal when he absconded from the pre-trial facility where he was held.\n\nIn 2005, Tahvili discovered that C$300,000 of his organization's drug money had gone missing, and suspected that a courier who had worked for him stole it and fled to Vietnam. Tahvili kidnapped the man's brother-in-law, sexually assaulted him, and interrogated him over several hours. The man was eventually let go and Tahvili was arrested soon after. Since July 2005, Tahvili had awaited trial in the maximum-security North Fraser Pretrial Centre in British Columbia until he escaped in November 2007 after bribing a security guard named Edwin Ticne. A closed circuit television video showed Tahvili leaving the Pretrial Centre wearing a janitor's uniform and being led through a series of locked doors by Ticne, and escaping through the front door. Tahvili subsequently received an 11-year sentence \"in absentia\". On August 8, 2008, Ticne was sentenced to three years and three months jail time for aiding in his escape.\n\nTahvili has connections throughout Canada, Europe and the Middle East, and remains an international fugitive.\n\n\nhttps://www.forbes.com/2010/05/13/bin-laden-joaquin-guzman-dawood-ibrahim-business-world-most-wanted_slide_11.html\n\nHow Omid Tahvili was set up\n"}
{"id": "10551003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10551003", "title": "Overturned convictions in the United States", "text": "Overturned convictions in the United States\n\nThis is a list of notable overturned convictions in the United States.\n\nBlount County\n\nBill Wilson was convicted of the 1912 murder of his wife and child and sentenced to life in prison. He was exonerated in 1918 when they were both found living in Indiana.\n\nJackson County\n\nThe Scottsboro Boys were nine black juveniles convicted of an alleged 1931 rape of a white girl, eight of whom were initially sentenced to die by the electric chair. All were later either pardoned or had their convictions overturned.\n\nJefferson County\n\nAnthony Ray Hinton was wrongfully convicted in 1985 of the murder two men in Birmingham and sentenced to death. The Supreme Court ruled in 2014 that his defence was inadequate and he was exonerated in 2015 by a Jefferson Court judge after spending nearly 30 years in prison.\n\nMaricopa County\n\nRay Krone was sentenced to death for the 1991 murder of a bar manager. Bite marks found on the victim were said to match Krone's teeth. DNA tests exonerated Krone in 2001 and identified the real killer Kenneth Phillips.\n\nDebra Milke was convicted of ordering her son's murder in 1990. She was sentenced to death. Her conviction was vacated in 2013.\n\nMarion County\n\nCharles Hudspeth was convicted of the 1887 murder of his lover's missing husband. Hudspeth was hanged in 1892, but the husband was found alive, living in Kansas in 1893.\n\nAlameda County\n\nHuey Newton was convicted of the 1967 manslaughter of John Frey, an Oakland Patrolman. His conviction was overturned in 1970.\n\nLos Angeles County\n\n\nMiami-Dade County\n\n\nDeSoto County\n\n\nGulf County\n\n\nLeon County\n\n\nChatham County\n\nSamuel Scott and Douglas Echols. were convicted of a 1986 kidnapping, rape, and robbery. Scott was sentenced to life in prison plus 20 years and Echols was sentenced to five years. DNA tests exonerated them both in 2002.\n\nCobb County\n\nThe Marietta Seven were convicted of the 1971 murder of two physicians in Marietta. The seven were exonerated in 1975.\n\nDeKalb County\n\nClarence Harrison was convicted of the 1986 kidnapping, robbery, and rape of a 25-year-old woman in Decatur and sentenced to life in prison. DNA tests exonerated him in 2004.\n\nFloyd County\n\nMarcus Dixon was convicted in 2003 of the rape of Kristie Brown, a 15-year-old schoolgirl. These charges were later overturned by the Georgia Supreme Court and dropped to statutory rape.\n\nFulton County\n\nLeo Frank was convicted of the 1913 murder of a 13-year-old female employee in Atlanta. He was lynched in 1915, and posthumously pardoned in 1986.\n\nCook County\n\nMajczek and Marcinkiewicz were convicted of the 1932 murder of a Chicago police officer and were each sentenced to 99 years in prison. They were exonerated in 1945 and 1950.\n\nGary Dotson was convicted of a 1977 rape after he was identified by the victim and sentenced to 25 to 50 years in prison. The victim recanted in 1985 and DNA tests cleared him in 1989.\n\nThe Ford Heights Four (two of which were sentenced to death) were convicted of the 1978 murder of an engaged couple. DNA tests exonerated them in 1996 and identified the true killers who confessed and were convicted.\n\nAnthony Porter was sentenced to death for the 1982 murder of an engaged couple. He was exonerated in 1989.\n\nDavid Dowaliby was convicted of the 1988 murder of his stepdaughter and sentenced to 45 years in prison. His conviction was reversed in 1991 on the grounds of insufficient evidence.\n\nMark Maxson was sentenced to life plus 50 years in 1993 for the murder of six year old Lindsay Murdoch. After 23 years in jail he was exonerated when DNA evidence proved his innocence in 2015 and identified the true killer Osborne Wade who confessed and was convicted.\n\nLawrence County\n\nJulie Rea Harper was convicted of the 1997 murder of her 10-year-old son and sentenced to 65 years in prison. She was acquitted on retrial in 2006.\n\nFloyd County\n\nDavid Camm was tried twice and sentenced to life in prison for the murder of his wife and two children. He was acquitted upon retrial in 2013. DNA found at the scene linked Charles Boney to the murders. Boney is serving 225 years in prison for the murders.\n\nSt. Joseph County\n\nRichard Alexander was convicted of committing two 1996 rapes. He was exonerated of the crimes in 2001.\n\nOrleans Parish\n\nShareef Cousin was sentenced to death for a 1995 murder. He was released in 1998.\n\nMychal Bell was sentenced to 22 years for assault. Overturned September 14, 2007\n\nGregory Bright was sentenced to life for a 1973 murder. He was released in 2003.\n\nCurtis Kyles was sentenced to death in 1994 for the murder of a woman. He was released in 1998\n\nRobert Jones was sentenced to life for a 1992 murder. Overturned November 21, 2015\n\nBaltimore County\n\nMichael Austin was convicted of the 1974 murder of a grocery store security guard and sentenced to life in prison. After 27 years in prison, he was exonerated in 2001.\n\nKirk Bloodsworth was convicted of the 1985 rape and murder of a 9-year-old girl and sentenced to death. DNA tests exonerated him in 1993 and identified the real killer Kimberly Shay Ruffner who pleaded guilty when charged.\n\nNorfolk County\n\nSacco and Vanzetti were convicted of a 1920 double homicide and robbery. They were executed in 1927. Massachusetts Governor Dukakis in 1977 issued a proclamation that \"...that any stigma and disgrace should be forever removed from the names of Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti...\" and declared August 23, 1977 as Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti memorial day.\n\nSuffolk County\n\nLawyer Johnson was sentenced to death for a 1971 Roxbury murder. He was exonerated in 1982.\n\nMacomb County\n\n\nBoone County\n\nRyan Ferguson was convicted of the 2001 murder of sports editor Kent Heitholt and sentenced to 40 years in prison. His conviction was overturned in 2013 and he was released after key witnesses recanted their testimony.\n\nSt. Louis County\n\nJohnny Briscoe was convicted of a 1982 rape and robbery and sentenced to 45 years in prison. DNA tests exonerated him in 2006 and identified the real guilty criminal Larry Smith.\n\nLincoln County\n\nRuss Faria was convicted of the 2011 murder of his wife, Betsy Faria, and sentenced to life in prison, with no chance of parole. His wrongful conviction was challenged and a new trial was ordered in June 2015. He was acquitted on November 6, 2015.\n\nEssex County\n\nBill MacFarland was convicted of the 1911 arsenic murder of his wife and sentenced to death in the electric chair. He was acquitted on retrial.\n\nMercer County\n\nThe Trenton Six were convicted of the 1948 murder of a Trenton shopkeeper and sentenced to death. All six were exonerated by 1952.\n\nPassaic County\n\nRubin Carter, a middleweight boxer was convicted twice of a 1966 triple murder and sentenced to a double life sentence. His conviction was overturned in 1985 and the indictments withdrawn in 1987.\n\nNew York County\n\nThe Central Park Five were five Harlem teens convicted of the 1989 assault and rape of a jogger in New York's Central Park. They served their sentences but afterwards their convictions were set aside in 2002 when DNA evidence cleared them and another man confessed to the crime.\n\nWestchester County\n\nIn 1998 Kian Daniel Khatibi was convicted of a double stabbing after detectives from the Village of Pleasantville falsely claimed that the victims had identified Kian as their attacker and then forwarded this false information to the Westchester County District Attorney. In 2008, Kian was released from prison as the truth unraveled and the conviction was overturned.\n\nJeffrey Mark Deskovic was convicted of the 1989 of rape and murder of a high school classmate and sentenced to 15 years-life in prison. He was exonerated in 2006 when the DNA from the crime was matched to another person.\n\nForsyth County\n\nDarryl Hunt was convicted of the 1984 rape and murder of a newspaper reporter and sentenced to life imprisonment. He was exonerated in 2004 after DNA evidence and the confession of the true killer.\n\nCuyahoga County\n\nDr. Sam Sheppard was convicted of the 1955 murder of his wife and sentenced to life in prison. He was acquitted on retrial in 1966.\n\nCleveland County\n\nThomas Webb III, sentenced to 60+ years, served 13 years before being exonerated by DNA evidence.\n\nOklahoma County\n\nDavid Johns Bryson, sentenced to 85 years in prison, served 16 years before being exonerated by DNA evidence.\n\nCurtis Edward McCarty, sentenced to death, served 11 years before being exonerated by DNA evidence.\n\nRobert Miller, sentenced to death, served 10 years before being exonerated by DNA evidence.\n\nJeffery Pierce, sentenced to 65 years, served 14.5 years before being exonerated by DNA evidence.\n\nPontotoc County\n\nDennis Fritz, sentenced to life, served 11 years before being exonerated by DNA evidence.\n\nCalvin Lee Scott, sentenced to 25 years, served 20 years before being exonerated by DNA evidence.\n\nRon Williamson, sentenced to death, served 11 years before being exonerated by DNA evidence.\n\nTulsa County\n\nTimothy Durham, sentenced to 3,220 years, served 3.5 years before being exonerated by DNA evidence.\n\nArvin McGee, sentenced to 298 years, served 11 years before being exonerated by DNA evidence.\n\nClackamas County\n\nSantiago Ventura Morales was convicted in 1986 of murdering a farm worker and sentenced to 10 years-life. He was exonerated in 1990.\n\nDauphin County\n\nJay C. Smith was convicted of the 1979 murder of a schoolteacher and her two children and sentenced to death. Smith's conviction was overturned in 1992.\n\nDelaware County\n\nNicholas Yarris was sentenced to death for a 1981 rape and murder. DNA tests exonerated him in 2004. See \"The Fear of 13\"\n\nPhiladelphia County\n\nFred Thomas was convicted of the 1993 murder of a Federal Express truck driver and sentenced to death. The conviction was overturned in 2002.\n\nChester County\n\nTwo black brothers Thomas Griffin and Meeks Griffin were convicted of the 1913 murder of John Q. Lewis, a Confederate veteran, and executed in the electric chair. They were pardoned in 2009.\n\nClarendon County\n\nFourteen-year-old black George Stinney was convicted of the 1944 murder of two white girls and executed in the electric chair within three months of his conviction. He was exonerated in 2014.\n\nBurleson County\n\nAnthony Charles Graves was convicted of the August 18, 1992 mass murder of six people in Somerville, after being implicated in the crime by Robert Carter - the father of one of the victims. Carter was executed in May 2000 for his part in the crime - and in his final statement took sole responsibility for the crime: \"To the Davis family, I am sorry for all of the pain that I caused your family. It was me and me alone. Anthony Graves had nothing to do with it. I lied on him in court. ... Anthony Graves don't even know anything about it\". Anthony Graves is also known as Death Row Exoneree 138.\n\nAfter spending 12 years on Death Row, Graves' conviction was overturned on March 3, 2006 by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals when, in a unanimous opinion, a three judge panel held that the state's case had hinged on Carter's perjured testimony, and concluded that the Prosecutor, Charles Sebesta, had intentionally withheld evidence that could have helped Graves; most notably that Carter had recanted right before he testified at Grave's August 1992 trial.\nGraves was held for an additional four years in solitary confinement in the Burleson County jail awaiting retrial until October 27, 2010, when he was released after all charges were dismissed by Burleson County Special Prosecutor Kelly Siegler, who concluded, \"He's an innocent man. There is nothing that connects Anthony Graves to this crime.\"\n\nGraves was awarded $1.4 million by the State of Texas in June 2011 for his wrongful conviction.\n\nDallas County\n\nRandall Dale Adams was sentenced to death for of the 1976 murder of a police officer. He was exonerated in 1989.\n\nCornelius Dupree was convicted of aggravated robbery, which was alleged to have been committed during a rape in 1979. He was sentenced to 75 years in prison and paroled during the summer of 2010. After DNA evidence cleared him of the crime, he was declared innocent in January 2011. His 30 years of imprisonment is the longest of any exonerated inmate in Texas.\n\nJefferson County\n\nJoe Elizondo was convicted in 1984, by a jury, of the 1983 aggravated sexual assault of his 10 yr-old step-son Robert Bienvenue. He was sentenced to life in prison and fined $10,000. In the fall of 1983, Robert and his 8 yr-old brother, Richard, told the Port Athur police, that they had been sexually abused by their mother, Mary Ann, 27, and their step-father, Joe, 49. At the time, the boys' father, Richard Bienvenue, Sr. had legal custody and the boys spent weekends with their mother and step-father. On September 23, 1983, the Elizondos were charged with sexually assaulting the boys. After they were arrested, the couple's one-year-old daughter was removed from their custody and was later adopted by another family. In August 1984, Joe Elizondo went on trial in Jefferson County Criminal District Court, on a single count of assaulting Robert Bienvenue. Robert told the jury that both he and his brother were forced to watch sexually explicit videos and to engage in oral sex with Joe, have oral contact with Mary Ann's breast and to have anal sex with both Joe and Mary. At times, Robert testified, another man and two women joined them. The jury was also shown a sexually explicit picture of a kangaroo that Robert had drawn at school, as well as a sexually suggestive note written to him by a female classmate. Robert's teacher confiscated these items, prompting interrogation by Robert's father and the police. During that questioning Robert detailed the alleged abuse. Robert's step-mother—the wife of Richard Bienvenue, Sr.—testified that the boys had told her of the abuse.\n\nMary Ann Elizondo was found guilty of sexually assaulting Robert during a separate trial from Joe's in 1984, and she was sentenced to 20 yrs in prison. She pleaded no contest to a second charge and was sentenced to 35 years in prison, to be served concurrently with the 20-year term. After Joe and Mary Ann were convicted, Robert and Richard had no further contact with them. It wasn't until 1988, on Robert's 17th birthday, that he found a letter written by his mother, Mary Ann, and learned for the first time that Joe and Mary Ann were in prison. He then began writing to authorities, letting them know that he had lied when he accused his mother and step-father of sexual abuse. Mary Ann was released on parole in 1991. She then divorced Elizondo, and married someone else. While on parole, she was ordered into group therapy and told she had to admit to sexually abusing her two sons. When she refused, she was jailed for 6 months, before being released again on parole. A Petition for a Writ of Habeas Corpus was filed, and in August 1995, a hearing was finally held, concerning the recantations of both boys. Robert Bienvenue testified that his father threatened to spank him and his brother every day for the rest of their lives if they refused to testify against Elizondo and their mother. He said their father wanted to retaliate against his ex-wife for marrying Elizondo. Richard Bienvenue also testified. Though he denied that their father forced them to lie, he said the abuse never occurred.\n\nIn 1995, the trial court found the recantations credible, set aside Joe Elizondo's conviction and ordered a new trial. In December 1996, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals upheld the trial court ruling. \"Robert's recantation not only voids his trial testimony which implicated (Joe Elizondo), but constitutes affirmative evidence of (Joe Elizondo's) innocence,\" the appeals court ruled. \"We are convinced by clear and convincing evidence that no rational jury would convict him in light of the new evidence.\" On June 23, 1997, Jefferson County District Attorney Paul McWilliams dismissed the charges against Joe Elizondo and he was released from prison that day. Mary Ann then sought to vacate her conviction. In November 2005, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals, following the decision made in Joe Elizondo's case, vacated her conviction and the charges were dismissed. Sadly, Joe Elizondo, whose health was poor in prison, died in 2003. In October 2008, Mary Ann (Barbosa), who had filed a state compensation claim, received her compensation of $370,833. It is unknown as to whether charges were ever filed against Richard Bienvenue, Sr., for causing his sons to falsely accuse sexual abuse against Joe and Mary Ann Elizondo.\n\nMontgomery County\n\nClarence Brandley was sentenced to death for the 1980 rape and murder of a 16-year-old girl. He was exonerated in 1990.\n\nNueces County\n\nHannah Overton was sentenced to life without parole for murdering her child when in fact he accidentally ingested a lethal amount of salt in September 2007. On September 17, 2014, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals reversed the conviction and remanded it back to the trial court who dropped the charges.\n\nSmith County\n\nKerry Max Cook was sentenced to death for the 1977 murder of a 21-year-old secretary. He was freed in 1997.\n\nTravis County\n\nRichard Danziger and Chris Ochoa were convicted of a 1988 rape and murder of a woman and sentenced to life in prison. DNA tests and the confession of the true murderer exonerated the pair in 2001.\n\nWilliamson County\n\nMichael Morton was convicted of the 1986 murder of his wife, sentenced to life and spent 25 years in prison. Morton was exonerated in 2011 after DNA evidence proved another man had committed the murder. Also, other evidence turned up after the DNA tests showed that the prosecutor, Ken Anderson had withheld other evidence from the defense that would have excluded Morton from the crime. Morton's lawyers accused Anderson of failing to provide defense lawyers with this exculpatory evidence indicating that another man might have killed Morton's wife, including information that his 3-year-old son witnessed the murder and said his dad was not home at the time. In 2013 former prosecutor Ken Anderson who was now a judge was ordered to be arrested by a \"court of inquiry\" for failing to deliver all evidence to the defense attorneys as required by law. Anderson was forced to resign as judge and give up his Texas law license. On November 8, 2013, Anderson pleaded no contest to the charges as part of a plea bargain. He was sentenced to 10 days in jail.\n\nCulpeper County\n\nEarl Washington, Jr. was sentenced to death for a 1982 rape and murder. He was pardoned in 2000.\n\nSherman Booth was convicted in January 1855 of violating the Fugitive Slave Act. The Wisconsin Supreme Court declared the Federal law unconstitutional and ordered Booth freed. In 1859, the U.S. Supreme Court overruled the Wisconsin court's decision, Ableman v. Booth, ordering Booth arrested and confined.\n\nMilwaukee County\n\nLawrencia Bembenek was convicted of the 1981 murder of her husband's ex-wife. She won the right to a new trial in 1992. She pleaded no contest and her sentence was commuted to time served. She was trying to get her original conviction overturned and be exonerated. On November 20, 2010\nshe died at a hospice facility in Portland, Oregon from liver and kidney failure. Friends, family and supporters have been trying to get her a posthumous pardon.\n\n"}
{"id": "40397037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40397037", "title": "Paid news in India", "text": "Paid news in India\n\nPaid news is a phenomenon in Indian media, that refers to the systematic engagement of mainstream media outlets in publishing favorable articles in exchange for payment. This type of news is typically sponsored by politicians, businessmen, and celebrities in order to improve their public image or accomplish political goals. Often such articles are carried under the name \"Special report\". \n\nA 2018 Cobrapost sting meeting with Times Group MD Vineet Jain and Sanjeev Shah revealed that large cash transaction running into hundreds of crores are routinely channeled through white collar investment companies (in this case DSP a Mumbai based investment bank operated by Hemendra Kothari and Merrill Lynch) from political outfits and communal agencies to media houses who prefer to work through cheques. \n\nThe Election Commission of India has detected hundreds of cases where politicians paid newspapers or TV channels to carry favorable reports.\n\n\nThe Election Commission is reported to have identified more than 1,400 cases of paid news between 2009 and 2013, during which elections were held in 17 states of India. One person involved, Deepak Chaurasia, host of India News, is accused of being a promoter of paid news in India.\n\nIn a video Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal was seen as playing the role of a part-time editor and advising the journalist on which part of the interview should be played up more.\n\nBennett, Coleman and Co. Ltd, which owns the Times of India, is reported to have asked celebrities and the wealthy to pay for favorable coverage. They have offered a \"private treaty\" agreement, which accepts an equity stake in a company in return for favorable coverage. The New York Times described \"private treaties\" as an example of the commodification of business news. A \"New Yorker\" article says that the \"Times of India\" \"have been dismantling the wall between the newsroom and the sales department\" with Times MediaNet.\n\nSimilar practices by other media companies came to light as Jindal Steel filed litigation media company Zee News for allegedly demanding advertisements so as not to telecast shows in relation to the Indian coal allocation scam.\n\nAn older report by media critic \"The Hoot\" identified how \"private treaties\" influence reporting. However, the CEO designate of Times private treaties, in an interview with MediaNama, justified the practices as \"there are two currencies for advertising – cash and treaties\".\n\nThe Hoot's report named several companies besides Sobha Developers and Pyramid Saimira (now defunct) that participated in \"Times private treaties\": Birla Power Solutions Ltd, Deccan Aviation, Pantaloon, Provogue, Spice Mobiles Limited, Videocon Industries Ltd, Deccan Aviation, India Infoline, The Home Store, Amity Education, Paramount Airways, Future Group, Sahara One, Precept Pictures etc.\n\nSome groups have criticized paid news including Bloomberg, who claimed that \"\"paid news\" was rotting India's democracy.\" The \"Analytic Monthly Review\" has also criticized India's media problems to well known problems in the political economy after the adoption of neo-liberal policies.\n\nIn 2010, a two person panel of the Press Council of India investigated the phenomenon of paid news in India. This resulted in a detailed 72 page report citing names and instances where information that had been paid for had been passed off as genuine news. However, the Press council rejected their findings and published a shorter watered down version of the report.\n\nIn 2017 and 2018, sting operations by Cobrapost, an Indian investigative journalism news agency was publicized and its videos posted in public. The videos showed a journalist posing as an RSS person who approached popular television and news media channels to publish and telecast news that would publicize fake news, promote the BJP, communal issues, hindutva right wing ideology and vilify their political opponents. Nearly all the news channels agreed to the proposal, describing how they had themselves run campaigns to get the BJP elected.\n\n"}
{"id": "49522395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49522395", "title": "Prevention of Crime Act 1959", "text": "Prevention of Crime Act 1959\n\nThe Prevention of Crime Act 1959 () is a Malaysian law which enacted to deal with crime prevention and for the control of criminals, members of secret societies, terrorists and other undesirable persons. Persons detained under the Act were not precluded from making a claim 'Habeas Corpus' (a court order to release the person detained is not in accordance with legal procedures that should be). Originally, POCA only came into force in peninsular Malaysia.\n\nThe act is necessary to stop action by a substantial body of persons both inside and outside Malaysia to cause, or to cause a substantial number of citizens to fear, organized violence against persons or property.\n\nThe Prevention of Crime Act 1959, in its current form (1 December 2015), consists of 5 Parts containing 23 sections and 3 schedules (including 12 amendments).\n\n"}
{"id": "25183022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25183022", "title": "Private-collective model of innovation", "text": "Private-collective model of innovation\n\nThe term private-collective model of innovation was coined by Eric von Hippel and Georg von Krogh in their 2003 publication in \"\". This innovation model represents a combination of the private investment model and the collective-action innovation model.\n\nIn the private investment model innovators appropriate financial returns from innovations through intellectual property rights such as patents, copyright, licenses, or trade secrets. Any knowledge spillover reduces the innovator's benefits, thus freely revealed knowledge is not in the interest of the innovator.\n\nThe collective-action innovation model explains the creation of public goods which are defined by the non-rivalry of benefits and non-excludable access to the good. In this case the innovators do not benefit more than any one else not investing into the public good, thus free-riding occurs. In response to this problem, the cost of innovation has to be distributed, therefore governments typically invest into public goods through public funding.\n\nAs combination of these two models, the private-collective model of innovation explains the creation of public goods through private funding. The model is based on the assumption that the innovators privately creating the public goods benefit more than the free-riders only consuming the public good. While the result of the investment is equally available to all, the innovators benefit through the \"process\" of creating the public good. Therefore, private-collective innovation occurs when the process-related rewards exceed the process-related costs.\n\nA laboratory study traced the initiation of private-collective innovation to the first decision to share knowledge in a two-person game with multiple equilibria. The results indicate fragility: when individuals face opportunity costs to sharing their knowledge with others they quickly turn away from the social optimum of mutual sharing. The opportunity costs of the \"second player\", the second person deciding whether to share, have a bigger (negative) impact on knowledge sharing than the opportunity costs of the first person to decide. Overall, the study also observed sharing behavior in situations where none was predicted.\n\nRecent work shows that a project will not \"take off\" unless the right incentives are in place for innovators to contribute their knowledge to open innovation from the beginning. The article explores social preferences in the initiation of PCI. It conducted a simulation study that elucidates how inequality aversion, reciprocity, and fairness affect the underlying conditions that lead to the initiation of Private-collective innovation.\n\nWhile firms increasingly seek to cooperate with outside individuals and organizations to tap into their ideas for new products and services, mechanisms that motivate innovators to \"open up\" are critical in achieving the benefits of open innovation.\n\nThe theory of private collective innovation has recently been extended by a study on the exclusion rights for technology in the competition between private-collective and other innovators. The authors argue that the investment in orphan exclusion rights for technology serves as a subtle coordination mechanism against alternative proprietary solutions.\n\nAdditionally, the research on private-collective innovation has been extended with theoretical explanations and empirical evidence of egoism and altruism as significant explanations for cooperation in private-collective innovation. Benbunan-Fich and Koufaris show that contributions to a social bookmarking site are a combination of intentional and unintentional contributions. The intentional public contribution of bookmarks is driven by an egoistic motivation to contribute valuable information and thus showing competence.\n\nThe development of open source software / Free Software (consequently named Free and Libre Open Source Software – FLOSS) is the most prominent example of private-collective innovation. By definition, FLOSS represents a public good. It is non-rival because copying and distributing software does not decrease its value. And it is non-excludable because FLOSS licenses enable everyone to use, change and redistribute the software without any restriction.\n\nWhile FLOSS is created by many unpaid individuals, it has been shown that technology firms invest substantially in the development of FLOSS. These companies release previously proprietary software under FLOSS licenses, employ programmers to work on established FLOSS projects, and fund entrepreneurial firms to develop certain features. In this way, private entities invest into the creation of public goods.\n"}
{"id": "3936827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3936827", "title": "Páez language", "text": "Páez language\n\nPáez (also Paez, Paes; the autonym Nasa Yuwe 'Nasa language' is becoming increasingly used) is a language of Colombia, spoken by the Páez people. Crevels (2011) estimates 60,000 speakers out of an ethnic population of 140,000.\n\nThe language is spoken by the second largest Colombian indigenous community, the Páez, in the north of the Cauca Department, in southwestern Colombia. However, the people had to move to other departments of Colombia like Huila, Tolima and Valle del Cauca.\n\nPáez is generally considered to be a language isolate, or at least the only surviving member of its family (Adelaar & Muysken 2004).\n\nAlthough many Colombian indigenous languages have disappeared since colonial times, there are still more than 60 languages in Colombia, classified into 10 linguistic families: Chibcha, Arawak, Caribe, Quichua, Tukano, Guahibo, Makú-Puinave, Witoto-Bora, Sáliba, and Chocó. Currently, the Chibcha family has languages from Santa Marta: Arhuaco, kogui, Wiwa, Tunebo, Motilone, Chimila and Cuna, but it used to be believed that Nasa Yuwe was part of the Chibcha family.\n\nAgriculture is the basis of the people's economy and so they have been fighting to expand their fields. With territorial expansion, they could spread out their own language. For instance, Nasa Yuwe speakers could recently develop their culture in the east and the west of their own township.\n\nThe language has been endangered for many centuries. The first threat against the language was in the 17th century, with the imposition of Spanish for education in Colombia.\n\nIn the 20th century, people believed that Nasa Yuwe had roots from Chibcha, but the former language is now considered an isolate. Also, in the Páez townships, there are many groups of Guambianos that allow the creation of some linguistic variations and bilingualism.\n\nIn education, the Nasa Yuwe were oppressed by the dominant culture, which wanted them to become Colombian citizens. Schooling was partly to civilize the indigenous; children who spoke in their native language were punished such as by being forced to kneel on grains of corn for hours. Thus, people were forced to avoid their native language.\n\nWith the General Law of Education, ethnoeducation is the opportunity of education for ethnic groups, but education needs to be related to the culture, traditions, language, and native elements of ethnic groups. To achieve the goal to give importance to indigenous languages, it is important to ensure that future indigenous generations preserve and relearn languages that do not have social privilege in Colombian society. Thus, it was necessary to implement booklets and original content material in the different languages.\n\nAlthough the government proposed the introduction of education of native languages in some communities, the preservation of languages and identities has been neglected. It is important to revitalize the language because it is part of the identity of many people who have been not considered part of Colombian society.\n\nThe first step is for the native teachers to know all the academic aspects and the sociocultural aspects of the ethnic group. The next is the creation of a campaign to promote the importance of the language in a minority community to maintain identity. The goal of the campaign is to reinforce the use of the language in the education environment and the family environment because they are children's first and most influential contacts. The last step is to promote the project to being used with other endangered languages of our country and revitalize them. Also, it is also necessary to create a conscience in the rest of the society to avoid the marginalization of the people who speak these native languages.\n\nPaez has four vowel sounds: /a, e, a, u/. Each vowel demonstrates nasalization and vowel length, all of which are contrastive. In addition, each vowel sound can be laryngealized. Laryngealization can occur to nasalized or plain vowels, but not to lengthened vowels, while nasalization can occur to a plain or lengthened vowel. However, vowel length is not contrastive in all dialects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7215829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7215829", "title": "Qaimkhani", "text": "Qaimkhani\n\nkayamkhani or Kaimkhani (also spelled kayam Khani and Kaim Khani) is a Muslim community with a Rajput descent from Hindu Chauhan Rajputs according to Muhnot Nainsi ri Khyat (1661 CE)and Kyam Khan Ras (1634 CE).\n\nThey converted from Hinduism to Islam in the 14th century during the reign of Firuz Shah Tughlaq.\n\nThe historian Dirk Kolff has queried whether the Qaimkhani have Turkbachcha origins.\n\nThey ruled between 1384 and 1731 with Fatehpur, Rajasthan as the capital, when they were defeated by the Shekhawats, Rajput kayamkhani nawabs ruled in Fatehpur, Jhunjhunu and Singhana.\n"}
{"id": "40988135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40988135", "title": "Rape in China", "text": "Rape in China\n\nIn 2007, the U.S. Department of State reported 31,833 rapes in China, but no similar report by the Chinese government has been made available. Marital rape is not illegal in China. Same-sex sexual assault between males was made illegal in late 2015.\n\nDuring the Qing dynasty (1644-1912), rape was very difficult to prove. A woman who was sexually attacked had to prove that she had offered the utmost resistance and fought vigorously throughout the entire ordeal. Failure to do so would expose the woman herself to criminal prosecution for being complicit in \"consensual illicit intercourse\".\n\nRape in China is not widely discussed in the media. Luo Tsun-yin, a social psychologist at Shih Hsin University in Taiwan, asserts that fewer than one in 10 rape cases in China are reported.\n\nThe 2013 \"Multi-country Study on Men and Domestic Violence\" asked men in China if they had ever coerced a female partner into having sex (including alcohol facilitated rape). 22.2% said yes. 9.3% had done so in the past year. 19.4% raped their partner. 55% of the men who had raped had done so more than once and 9% had have so on four or more partners. 86% cited sexual entitlement as their motive (the highest percentage in the study) and 57% answered that they raped out of boredom. 72.4% experienced no legal consequences. 1.7% had raped another man. 25.1% who had raped reported first doing so as a teenager. 2.2% admitted to having committed gang rape. A report conducted by the All-China Women’s federation estimated that close to forty percent of Chinese woman who are involved in a relationship or are married experience physical or sexual violence.\n\nThere are numerous cases of sexual assault are unrecorded. The survey of previous paragraph has updated some new information, it turns out that 22.7 percent of males acknowledged that they had raped a woman before. Further, only 24.9 percent of Chinese sexual culprits were in custody while other countries surveyed had average 32.5 percent. In addition, only 15.6 percent of Chinese criminals were sent to jail while other countries had average 22.9 percent. The data shows Chinese reports for sexual assault is lower than other countries in Asia Pacific region, but in fact it is not the truth.\n\nRecent research has found that there is no existing psychometric measure assessing attitudes toward rape in China. For example, researchers found that men endorse the view that revealing clothing conveys consent for sex.\n\nThe laws against rape in China have been criticized by some, including Guo Jianmei, who noted that weaknesses in the legal system make it possible for certain rapists to escape justice. Same-sex rape was not illegal until 2015 in China, and legal loopholes previously allowed child rapists to escape with light sentences.\n\nIn 2011, a man who raped another man was convicted of \"intentional injury\" rather than rape, as non-consensual same-sex sexual conduct was not defined as a sexual offense.\n\nIn November 2015 ChinaDaily reported another same-sex case which happened in Luzhou city, Sichuan province. In this case, a man robbed and raped him another man, but did not face sanction for the second crime.\n\nIn November 2015 Xinhua reported that the criminal code was amended to include the sexual assault and rape of men, citing the above case. In addition, sex with underaged (defined as under 14 years of age) prostitutes was reclassified as rape.\n\nIn recent years some additional legislation has been passed. The Draft Law was the first to define domestic violence in China, and its benefits include outlining how to obtain restraining orders, and providing guidelines to officials such as judges and police officers with how to handle cases of domestic violence in congruity with the law. However, there are weaknesses in this law as it only covers family members, and excludes protection for unmarried, divorced, dating, and LGBTQ partners.\n\n"}
{"id": "21689772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21689772", "title": "Russians in Austria", "text": "Russians in Austria\n\nThere are 5,500 people of Russian origin living in Austria, mostly in Vienna and Salzburg.\n\nThere has been a Russian community in Vienna since the 17th century. The first Russians came in Austria for business and educational reasons. In the 1920s, the community grew after the Russian Civil War. Some more Russians came to Austria in the 1990s.\n\nThe Russian Embassy School in Vienna serves Russian families in the city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17746196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17746196", "title": "Saibaba Goud", "text": "Saibaba Goud\n\nAlampur Saibaba Goud is an Indian ophthalmologist and founder-chairman of the Devnar Foundation for the Blind. He is also a social entrepreneur, and active in the voluntary organization at Secunderabad in Andhra Pradesh, a state of India. He works in the field of providing aid to visually challenged and visually disabled children in India.\n\nHe had won awards for his work and has written several books and articles for the blind in English and Telugu newspapers and journals. He does educational radio talks broadcast on the Doordarshan network in India.\n\nGoud is president of the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness (NSPB) in the state of Andhra Pradesh, and Professor and Head of the Department of Ophthalmology at Osmania Medical College at Hyderabad. He is the Founder-trustee of Devnar Foundation for the Blind and chairman of the Andhra Pradesh Cricket Association for the Blind.\n\nGoud leads the Devnar Foundation (founded in 1991) in their efforts to provide opportunities and infrastructure essential to integrating the visually impaired into society as productive adults. Through the foundation, vision-disabled people are provided accommodation, schools, and vocational programs to become self-employed or work in the private sector. The foundation provides computer training and facilities for extracurricular activities such as cricket, chess, music and dance.\n\nThe foundation is attempting to organise a Polytechnic engineering college for the blind through various affiliations. It provides medical care for sight-related needs of children along with parental counseling and genetic counseling. The Foundation manages the Ramananda Centre for Advanced Learning and Research for visually impaired vocational training and provides CBR programs, and operates Braille printing presses.\n\nCompanies that have supported the efforts of Foundation include GE, Dell, and Oracle Corporation. The employees of GE hold entertainment and story telling programs which help the children feel that they are a part of normal society. Some of these companies have volunteered to recruit students once they graduate. The Government of India provides a 1% reservation for the blind.\n\n\nGoud is the author of several books.\n\n"}
{"id": "23488970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23488970", "title": "Smith Act", "text": "Smith Act\n\nThe Alien Registration Act, popularly known as the Smith Act, 76th United States Congress, 3d session, ch. 439, , is a United States federal statute that was enacted on June 29, 1940. It set criminal penalties for advocating the overthrow of the U.S. government by force or violence and required all non-citizen adult residents to register with the federal government.\n\nApproximately 215 people were indicted under the legislation, including alleged communists, anarchists, and fascists. Prosecutions under the Smith Act continued until a series of U.S. Supreme Court decisions in 1957 reversed a number of convictions under the Act, as unconstitutional. The law has been amended several times. \n\nThe U.S. government has attempted on several occasions to regulate speech in wartime, beginning with the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798. During and following World War I, a series of statutes addressed a complex of concerns that included enemy espionage and disruption, anti-war activism, and the radical ideologies of anarchism and Bolshevism, all identified with immigrant communities. Congressional investigations of 'extremist' organizations in 1935 resulted in calls for the renewal of those statutes. The Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 addressed a particular concern, but not the general problem. As U.S. involvement in the European war seemed ever more likely, the possibility of betrayal from within gained currency. The Spanish Civil War had given this possibility a name, a \"fifth column\", and the popular press in the U.S. blamed internal subversion (especially by Communists opposed to the war against Hitler after the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact) for the fall of France to the Nazis in just six weeks in May and June 1940. Patriotic organizations and the popular press raised alarms and provided examples. In July 1940, \"Time\" magazine called fifth column talk a \"national phenomenon\".\n\nIn the late 1930s, several legislative proposals tried to address sedition itself and the underlying concern with the presence of large numbers of non-citizens, including citizens of countries with which the U.S. might soon be at war. An omnibus bill that included several measures died in 1939, but the Senate Judiciary Committee revived it in May 1940. It drew some of its language from statutes recently passed at the state level and combined anti-alien and anti-sedition sections with language crafted specifically to help the government in its attempts to deport Harry Bridges. With little debate, the House of Representatives approved it by a vote of 382 to 4, with 45 not voting, on June 22, 1940, the day the French signed an armistice with Germany. The Senate did not take a recorded vote. It was signed into law by President Franklin D. Roosevelt on June 28, 1940. The Act is referred to by the name of its principal author, Rep. Howard W. Smith (Democrat-Virginia), a leader of the anti-labor bloc in Congress.\n\nA few weeks later, the \"New York Times\" discussed the context in which the alien registration provisions were included and the Act passed:\nAlso in June, the President transferred the Immigration and Naturalization Service from the Department of Labor to the Department of Justice (DOJ), demonstrating that the federal government viewed its alien population as a security concern as war grew more likely.\n\nIn mid-August, officials of the DOJ held a two-day conference with state officials they called \"Law Enforcement Problems of National Defense\". Attorney General Jackson and FBI Director Hoover delineated the proper roles for federal and state authorities with respect to seditious activities. They successfully forestalled state regulation of aliens and found state officials receptive to their arguments that states needed to prevent vigilantism and protect aliens, while trusting federal authorities to use the Smith Act to deal with espionage and \"fifth column\" activities.\n\nOn October 13, 1941, the 77th United States Congress amended the Smith Act, authorizing a criminal offense for the unlawful reproduction of alien registration receipt cards.\n\nTitle I. Subversive activities. The Smith Act set federal criminal penalties that included fines or imprisonment for as long as twenty years and denied all employment by the federal government for five years following a conviction for anyone who:\n\nThe Smith Act's prohibition of proselytizing on behalf of revolution repeated language found in previous statutes. It went beyond earlier legislation in outlawing action to \"organize any society, group, or assembly\" that works toward that end and then extended that prohibition to \"membership\" or \"affiliation\"—a term it did not define—with such a group.\n\nTitle II. Deportation. Because the Supreme Court in \"Kessler v. Strecker\" (1939) held that the Immigration Act of 1918 allowed the deportation of an alien only if his membership in a group advocating the violent overthrown of the government had not ceased, the Smith Act allowed for the deportation of any alien who \"at the time of entering the United States, or ... at any time thereafter\" was a member of or affiliated with such an organization.\n\nThe Smith Act expanded the grounds for deporting aliens to include weapons violations and abetting illegal immigration. It added heroin to the category of drug violations.\n\nTitle III. Alien registration. The Smith Act required aliens applying for visas to register and be fingerprinted. Every other alien resident of the United States:\n\nRegistration would be under oath and include:\n\nGuardians had to register minors, who had to register in person and be fingerprinted within 30 days of their fourteenth birthday. Post offices were designated as the location for registering and fingerprinting. Aliens were to notify the government if their residence changed and confirm their residence every three months. Penalties included fines up to $1000 and up to six months imprisonment.\n\nRegistrations began on August 27, 1940, and the newly created Alien Registration Division of the Immigration and Naturalization Service planned to register between three and three and a half million people at 45,000 post offices by December 26, after which those not registered became subject to the Smith Act's penalties. The Division held the view that registration benefited the alien, who \"is now safeguarded from bigoted persecution.\" The alien was to bring a completed form to a post office and be fingerprinted. Registration cards would be delivered by mail and would serve \"in the nature of protection of the alien later runs afoul of the police.\" {sic} The details required for registration had been expanded since the passage of the Act to include race, employer's name and address, relatives in the U.S., organization memberships, application for citizenship, and military service record for the U.S. or any other country. Solicitor General Francis Biddle had responsibility for the Division, which was headed by Earl G. Harrison during its first six months. In a radio address meant to reassure aliens, Biddle said: \"It was not the intention of Congress to start a witch hunt or a program of persecution.\" Calling it a \"patriotic duty\", he said:\nGovernment efforts to encourage registration asked citizens to participate: \nThe number registered passed 4.7 million by January 1941.\n\nAfter the U.S. declared war in 1941, federal authorities used data gathered from alien registrations to identify citizens of enemy nations and take 2,971 them into custody by the end of the year. A different set of requirements was imposed during the war on \"enemy aliens\", citizens of nations with which the U.S. was at war by presidential proclamations of January 14, 1942, without reference to the Smith Act.\n\nIn December 1950, following an Immigration and Naturalization Service hearing, Claudia Jones, a citizen of Trinidad, was ordered deported from the U.S. for violating the McCarran Act as an alien (non-U.S. citizen) who had joined the Communist Party (CPUSA). The evidence of her party membership included information she provided when completing her Alien Registration form on December 24, 1940.\n\nThe Smith Act was written so that federal authorities could deport radical labor organizer Harry Bridges, an immigrant from Australia. Deportation hearings against Bridges in 1939 found he did not qualify for deportation because he was not \"currently\"—as the required—a member of or affiliated with an organization that advocated the overthrow of the government. The Smith Act allowed deportation of an alien who was a member of affiliated \"at any time\" since arriving in the U.S. A second round of deportation hearings ended after ten weeks in June 1941. In September, the special examiner who led the hearings recommended deportation, but the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) reversed that order after finding the government's two key witnesses unreliable. In May 1942, though the Roosevelt administration was now putting its anti-Communist activities on hold in the interest of furthering the Soviet-American alliance, Attorney General Biddle overruled the BIA and ordered Bridges deported. Bridges appealed and lost in District Court and the Court of Appeals, but the Supreme Court held 5–3 on June 18, 1945, in the case of \"Bridges v. Wixon\" that the government had not proven Bridges was \"affiliated\" with the CPUSA, a word it interpreted to require more than \"sympathy\" or \"mere cooperation\".\n\nOn June 27, 1941, as part of a campaign to end labor militancy in the defense industry, FBI agents raided the Minneapolis and St. Paul offices of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP), a Trotskyist splinter party that controlled Local 544 of the Teamsters union though it had fewer than two thousand members in 30 U.S. cities. The union had grown steadily in the late 1930s, had organized federal relief workers and led a strike against the Works Progress Administration (WPA), a New Deal agency. In mid-July, a federal grand jury indicted 29 people, either members of the SWP or Local 544 of the Teamsters union, or both.\n\nSWP defendants included James P. Cannon, Carl Skoglund, Farrell Dobbs, Grace Carlson, Harry DeBoer, , Albert Goldman, and twelve other party leaders. Goldman acted as the defendants' lawyer during the trial. The SWP had been influential in Minneapolis since the Teamsters Strike of 1934. It advocated strikes and the continuation of labor union militancy during World War II under its Proletarian Military Policy. An SWP member edited \"the Northwest Organizer\", the weekly newspaper of the Minneapolis Teamsters, and the local remained militant even as the national union grew more conservative. The CPUSA supported the trial and conviction of Trotskyists under the Smith Act. The defendants were accused of having plotted to overthrow the U.S. government in violation of the unused Sedition Act of 1861 as well as the newly passed Smith Act.\n\nWhen critics argued that the government should adhere to the doctrine enunciated by Justice Holmes that free speech could only be prosecuted if it presented \"a clear and present danger,\" Attorney General Biddle replied that Congress had considered both that standard and the international situation when writing the Smith Act's proscriptions. At trial the judge took Biddle's view and refused to instruct the jury in the \"clear and present danger\" standard as the defendants' attorneys requested. The trial began in Federal District Court in Minneapolis on October 27, 1941. The prosecution presented evidence that the accused had amassed a small arsenal of pistols and rifles and conducted target practices and drills. Some had met with Trotsky in Mexico, and many witnesses testified to their revolutionary rhetoric.\n\nThe judge ordered that five of the defendants be acquitted on both counts for lack of evidence. After deliberating for 56 hours, the jury found the other 23 defendants (one had committed suicide during the trial) not guilty of violating the 1861 statute by conspiring to overthrow the government by force. The jury found 18 of the defendants guilty of violating the Smith Act either by distributing written material designed to cause insubordination in the armed forces or by advocating the overthrow of the government by force. The jury recommended leniency. On December 8, 1941, 12 defendants received 16-month sentences and the remaining 11 received 12-months. \"Time\" magazine minimized the danger from the SWP, calling it \"a nestful of mice.\" The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and critics on the left worried that the case created a dangerous precedent.\n\nOn appeal, a unanimous three-judge panel of the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the convictions of the 18. The judges found it unnecessary to consider the \"clear and present danger\" standard in \"situations where the legislative body had outlawed certain utterances.\" The Supreme Court declined to review the case. Those convicted began to serve their sentences on December 31, 1943. The last of them were released in February 1945. Biddle, in his memoirs published in 1962, regretted having authorized the prosecution.\n\nEarly in 1942, President Roosevelt, supported by the rest of his Cabinet, urged Attorney General Biddle to prosecute fascist sympathizers and anti-Semites. Biddle thought the Smith Act inadequate, but Congress refused to renew the Sedition Act of 1918 as he asked.\n\nIn 1942, 16 members of the \"Mankind United\" semi-religious cult, including founder Arthur Bell, were arrested by the FBI under the act. Although 12 were found guilty, they all won on appeal and none served time.\n\nIn March 1942, the government charged , founder of the , with violating the Smith Act by attempting to spread dissent in the armed forces. \"Life\" had published a photo of Christians in 1939 under the heading \"Some of the Voices of Hate\". Christians said he promoted a \"human effort monetary system\" and supported \"a paper and ink revolution for economic liberty\". After a four-day trial, he was convicted and sentenced to five years in prison on June 8.\n\nThirty prominent individuals were indicted in Washington, D.C., in July 1942, accused of violations of the Smith Act. After delays while the government amended the charges and struggled to construct its case, the trial, expanded to 33 defendants, began on April 17, 1944. The defendants were a heterogeneous group that held either isolationist or pro-fascist views. In the case of \"U.S. v. McWilliams\", the prosecutor, O. John Rogge, hoped to prove they were Nazi propaganda agents by demonstrating the similarity between their statements and enemy propaganda. The weakness of the government's case, combined with the trial's slow progress in the face of disruption by the defendants, led the press to lose interest. A mistrial was declared on November 29, 1944, following the death of the trial judge, Edward C. Eicher. Defendant Lawrence Dennis mocked the affair by subtitling his account of the trial \"The Great Sedition Trial of 1944\".\n\nOnly Rogge, a committed liberal, wanted to retry the case to \"stop the spread of racial and religious intolerance.\" Supreme Court decisions since the 1942 indictments made convictions appear ever more unlikely. Roger Baldwin of the ACLU campaigned against renewing the prosecutions, securing the endorsement of many of the defendants' ideological opponents, including the American Jewish Committee, while the CPUSA held out for prosecuting them all to the limit. Tom Clark, Biddle's replacement as Attorney General in the Truman administration, vacillated about the case. In October 1946, he fired Rogge in a public dispute about publicizing DOJ information about right-wing activities. With the end of World War II, attention turned from the defeated ideologies of the Axis powers to the threat of Communism, and in December 1946 the government had the charges dismissed.\n\nAfter a ten-month trial at the Foley Square Courthouse in Manhattan, eleven leaders of the Communist Party were convicted under the Smith Act in 1949. Ten defendants received sentences of five years and $10,000 fines. An eleventh defendant, Robert G. Thompson, a distinguished hero of the Second World War, was sentenced to three years in consideration of his military record. The five defense attorneys were cited for contempt of court and given prison sentences. Those convicted appealed the verdicts, and the Supreme Court upheld their convictions in 1951 in \"Dennis v. United States\" in a 6-2 decision.\n\nFollowing that decision, the DOJ prosecuted dozens of cases. In total, by May 1956, another 131 communists were indicted, of whom 98 were convicted, nine acquitted, while juries brought no verdict in the other cases. Other party leaders indicted included Claudia Jones and Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, a founding member of the ACLU who had been expelled in 1940 for being a Communist.\n\nAppeals from other trials reached the Supreme Court with varying results. On June 17, 1957, \"Yates v. United States\" held unconstitutional the convictions of numerous party leaders in a ruling that distinguished between advocacy of an idea for incitement and the teaching of an idea as a concept. The same day, the Court ruled 6-1 in \"Watkins v. United States\" that defendants could use the First Amendment as a defense against \"abuses of the legislative process.\" On June 5, 1961, the Supreme Court upheld by 5-4 the conviction of Junius Scales under the \"membership clause\" of the Smith Act. Scales began serving a six-year sentence on October 2, 1961. He was released after serving fifteen months when President John F. Kennedy commuted his sentence in 1962.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "93424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93424", "title": "Sociedad Estatal de Participaciones Industriales", "text": "Sociedad Estatal de Participaciones Industriales\n\nSociedad Estatal de Participaciones Industriales (SEPI) is a Spanish state holding company that is characterized as a Sovereign wealth fund. It is controlled by the Ministry of the Treasury.\n\nSEPI was preceded by the Instituto Nacional de Industria (INI) and the Instituto Nacional de Hidrocarburos (INH). On June 16, 1995, SEPI was created in a provisional restructure which was authorized by Decree number 5/1995. On January 10, 1996, SEPI was ratified by Act of Parliament number 5/1999. This provided for the creation of various public legal entities and the abolition of the INI and the INH.\n\nSEPI has a direct and majority participation in nineteen companies, which make up the Grupo SEPI (SEPI Group). Its employees number around 80,000 workers. It also has interest in the Corporación Radiotelevisión Española and in the Ente Público RTVE. SEPI also has minority direct shareholdings in seven companies, and indirect shareholdings in more than 100 companies.\n\nThe SEPI Group has four divisions. These are the energy, defence, food and environment and communications industry investment divisions.\n\nThe energy division includes ENSA, a nuclear power operator; the ENUSA group, a nuclear fuel producer; the HUNOSA group, a coal mining entity; and the SEPIDES group for energy consulting. SEPI also has minority shareholdings in ENAGÁS, the Spanish national gas supplier; ENRESA a nuclear residue processor (SEPI 20 percent and CIEMAT eighty percent); and the Red Electrica corporation, the national electricity supplier.\n\nThe defence division includes DEFEX for defence equipment exports and security consulting; and the Navatia Group for military and civil construction. SEPI holds minority shareholdings in EADS Aircraft NV and HISPASAT satellite communications.\n\nThe food and environment division includes Cetarsa tobacco; the Hipodromo de la Zarzuela royal horse racing; Mayasa consulting and project management; the Mercas group for wholesale markets; SAECA food sector investments; the TRAGSA Group for rural and agricultural development; and the Alimentos y Aceites, a producer of fine foods and olive oil. Alimentos y Aceites has shares in Ebro Foods which produces and sells rice and pasta sauces.\n\nThe communication industry division included the Agencia EFE, a news entity; the RTVE corporation, the state broadcaster; the Ente Publico RTVE; a public information service promoting citizen participation; and the Correos Group, the national postal service.\n\nThe SEPI Group has overview of the social trust fund, Fundacion SEPI which arranges internships, student loans, and grants for technical training and business development activities.\n\nThe SEPI group holds indirect shares in more than one hundred commercial enterprises and retains some minority shareholdings in the International Airlines Group (IAG, formerly Spanair/BA) and Espana Expansion Exterior (a Spanish exports development company with consulting, finance and technical assistance activities within foreign markets).\n\nList of publicly owned assets disposed up to March 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "528010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528010", "title": "Temasek Holdings", "text": "Temasek Holdings\n\nTemasek Holdings Private Limited (abbreviated as Temasek) is a Singaporean holding company owned by the Government of Singapore. Incorporated in 1974 as a Commercial Investment Company, Temasek owns and manages a net portfolio of $308 billion (as of 31 March 2018), with S$16 billion divested and S$29 billion invested during the year, and 68% exposure to Asia – 27% Singapore and 41% Asia ex-Singapore. It is an active shareholder and investor, and its investments are guided by four key themes – transforming economies, growing middle income populations, deepening comparative advantages and emerging champions. Its portfolio covers a broad spectrum of sectors including financial services, telecommunications, media and technology, transportation and industrials, life sciences and agribusiness, consumer and real estate, energy and resources, as well as multi-sector funds. Headquartered in Singapore, Temasek has a multinational team of 730 people, in 11 global offices including 2 offices in Beijing, and 1 office in Shanghai, Mumbai, Hanoi, London, New York, San Francisco, Mexico City, Washington, D.C., Sao Paulo.\n\nTemasek differs from many sovereign wealth funds because it invests mostly in equities, is the outright owner of many assets, and pays taxes like other commercial investment firms.\n\nTemasek has credit ratings of “AAA/Aaa” by Standard & Poor's Global Ratings and Moody's Investors Service respectively since their inaugural ratings in 2004. Temasek has also attained perfect quarterly scores on the Linaburg-Maduell Transparency Index, a measure of the openness of government-owned investment funds.\n\nAt the point of Singapore's independence in August 1965, the Government of Singapore had ownership or joint ownership of various local companies, such as Malaysia-Singapore Airlines (later split up into Malaysia Airlines and Singapore Airlines) and the Singapore Telephone Board (which became Singapore Telecommunications). As part of its push for local and foreign private investment in sectors such as manufacturing and shipbuilding, the government's Economic Development Board (EDB) also bought minority stakes in a variety of local companies. During the first ten years after independence, the government acquired or established several companies, such as the Keppel Corporation (originally Keppel Shipyard, taken over from the Royal Navy after the British military withdrawal from Singapore), ST Engineering (originally a weapon manufacturer set up to supply the Singapore Armed Forces), and the shipping company Neptune Orient Lines.\n\nIn 1974, Temasek was incorporated under the Singapore Companies Act to hold and manage the assets previously held directly by the Singapore government. The goal was for Temasek to own and manage these investments on a commercial basis, allowing the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Trade and Industry to focus on policymaking. Temasek's established mission was to contribute to Singapore's economic development, industrialisation, and financial diversification by nurturing effective and commercially driven strategic investments in and around Singapore.\n\nTemasek is a company incorporated in Singapore, and operates under the provisions of the Singapore Companies Act. It is neither a government agency nor a statutory board. Like any other commercial company, Temasek pays taxes that contributes to government revenue in the countries it operates in, distributes dividends to its shareholder and has its own board of directors and a professional management team. Its sole shareholder is Singapore's Ministry of Finance.\n\nTemasek is designated a Fifth Schedule entity under the Singapore Constitution, which imposes certain safeguards to protect the government's past reserves. For instance, the approval of the President of Singapore is required for any transaction which is likely to result in a draw-down of Temasek's cash reserves. The president also has the right to appoint, terminate, or renew the members of Temasek's board of directors. In most other respects, however, Temasek operates as an independent commercial investment holding company.\n\nIn a 2009 speech, Ho Ching, Temasek's Executive Director and CEO, said that the company had made an effort to instill discipline and professionalism, and to be tested and measured by providing public markers of performance. She noted that Temasek's bonds spreads and credit ratings have been regularly and independently monitored as public markers of Temasek's financial position and credit risks. Temasek had also openly and accurately disclosed its financial information through its annual report (although Ho said that, as a private company, it was not legally obliged to do so).\n\nTemasek's initial portfolio of S$354 million comprised shares previously held by the Singapore Government, including a bird park, a hotel, a shoe maker, a detergent producer, naval yards converted into a ship repair business, a start-up airline, and an iron and steel mill.\n\nIn June 2018, Temasek invested S$340 million in a minority stake in UST Global, a digital technology services company. The size of the stake was not disclosed.\n\nTemasek is fully owned by Singapore's Ministry of Finance, and these close links to the government have on several occasions caused protests in foreign countries. \n\n\"Fortune\" magazine described the investment in Shin Corp as a \"spectacular misjudgment\"\n\nIn 2016, Temasek sold a 21% stake in Intouch Holdings, the Thai telecoms conglomerate formerly known as Shin Corp.\n\nIn 2012, Singaporean blog TR Emeritus alleged that the appointment of Ho Ching, Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong's wife, as CEO of Temasek Holdings was a case of cronyism and nepotism, which was subsequently deleted and for which they apologised.\n\nKeppel Corp Corruption\n\nTemasek Holdings owns 20.43% of Keppel Corporation as at 15 May 2018.\n\nIt was revealed and proven that key appointment holders at Keppel was involved in a corruption scandal which involved Brazil and the US. From 2001 to 2014, Keppel O&M paid US$55 million in bribes to secure contracts with Brazilian oil giant Petrobras. This corruption case shocked the nation greatly as the image of Singapore being a corruption-free nation and financial hub was jeopardised. As part of the resolution, Keppel Offshore & Marine (Keppel O&M) will pay fines amounting to US$422.2 million (S$570 million), to be allocated between the US, Brazil, and Singapore\n\nKeppel Corporation's offshore and marine unit has reached a global resolution with criminal authorities in the United States, Brazil and Singapore in relation to corrupt payments made by a former agent in Brazil.\n\n"}
{"id": "4539502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4539502", "title": "Tigre people", "text": "Tigre people\n\nThe Tigre people are an ethnic group inhabiting Eritrea and Sudan. They are closely related to the Tigrayans and Beja. The Tigre speak the Tigre language, which belongs to the Semitic branch of the Afroasiatic family.\n\nThe Tigre are a nomadic pastoralist community living in the northern, western, and coastal lowlands of Eritrea (Gash-Barka, Anseba, Northern Red Sea regions of Eritrea and other regions too), as well as areas in eastern Sudan. 95.5% of the Tigre people adhere to Islam (Sunni), but there are a small number of Christians\n(who are very likely members of Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church) among them as well (often referred to as the \"Mensaï\" in Eritrea).\n\nThe first Tigre converts to Islam were those who lived on islands in the Red Sea and were converted in the seventh century. Mainland Tigre were not converted to Islam until the nineteenth century.\n\nThe Tigre are closely related to the Tigrayans of Eritrea, as well as the Beja (particularly the Hadendoa).\n\nThere are also a number of Eritreans of Tigre origin living in the Middle East, North America, the United Kingdom and Australia.\n\nThe Tigre language is an Afroasiatic language of the Semitic branch. Like Tigrinya, it is a member of the Ethiopian Semitic group, and is similar to ancient Ge'ez. There is no known historically written form of the language. The Eritrean government uses the Ge'ez writing system (an abugida) to publish documents in the Tigre language.\n\nTigre is the lingua franca of the multi-ethnic lowlands of western and northern Eritrea, including the northern coast. As such approximately 75% of the Western Lowlands Eritrean population speaks Tigre.\n\nSince around 1889, the Ge'ez script (Ethiopic script) has been used to write the Tigre language. Tigre speakers formerly used Arabic more widely as a lingua franca. Due to most Tigre speakers being Muslim, the language is also written in the Arabic alphabet.\n\nThe Tigre people, language and their area of inhabitation should not be confused with that of the Tigrayans, who live in Eritrea and northern Ethiopia and speak Tigrinya, a closely related Semitic language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19766453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19766453", "title": "Turks in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Turks in Saudi Arabia\n\nTurks in Saudi Arabia () are either Turkish people who live in Saudi Arabia even though having been born outside Saudi Arabia, or are Saudi Arabian-born, but have Turkish roots. By Turkish roots, this could mean roots linking back to Turkey, the island of Cyprus or the communities of the Turkish diaspora.\n\nTurks have had a presence in the western Arabian peninsula for hundreds of years, culminating in the Ottoman conquest of the Hejaz in 1517. After the Great Arab Revolt and the decline of the Ottoman Empire, a Turkish minority remained in the newly founded Saudi Kingdom.\n\nStarting in the 1970s, economic relations between Turkey and Saudi Arabia grew. In 1977, there was 6,500 Turks in Saudi Arabia, 5,000 of which were officially reported workers. \n\nThere are some 2,100 Turkish-operated hairdresser shops, 3,200 restaurants, and 1,900 furniture stores in Saudi Arabia.\n\nTurkish people living in Saudi Arabia are Sunni Muslims. Turkish laborers returning from Riyadh seem to be less likely to espouse Shariah (Islamic law) than those living in European countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "180143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180143", "title": "Whittaker Chambers", "text": "Whittaker Chambers\n\nJay Vivian Chambers (April 1, 1901 – July 9, 1961), known as Whittaker Chambers, was an American editor who denounced his Communist spying and became respected by the American Conservative movement during the 1950s.\n\nAfter early years as a Communist Party member (1925) and Soviet spy (1932–1938), he defected from communism (underground and open party) and worked at \"Time\" magazine (1939–1948). Under subpoena in 1948, he testified in what became Alger Hiss's perjury (espionage) trials (1949–1950) and he became an outspoken anti-communist (all described in his 1952 memoir \"Witness\"). Afterwards, he worked briefly as a senior editor at \"National Review\" (1957–1959). President Ronald Reagan awarded him the Medal of Freedom posthumously in 1984.\n\nChambers was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and spent his infancy in Brooklyn. His family moved to Lynbrook, Long Island, New York, in 1904, where he grew up and attended school. His parents were Jay Chambers and Laha Whittaker. Chambers described his childhood as troubled because of his parents' separation and their need to care for their mentally ill grandmother. His father was a half-closeted homosexual and treated Whittaker cruelly, while his mother was neurotic. Chambers's brother committed suicide shortly after withdrawing from his first year of college. Chambers would cite his brother's fate as one of many reasons that he was drawn to communism at that time. As he wrote, communism \"offered me what nothing else in the dying world had power to offer at the same intensity, faith and a vision, something for which to live and something for which to die.\"\n\nAfter graduating from South Side High School in neighboring Rockville Centre in 1919, Chambers worked itinerantly in Washington and New Orleans, briefly attended Williams College, and then enrolled as a day student at Columbia College of Columbia University. At Columbia, his undergraduate peers included Meyer Schapiro, Frank S. Hogan, Herbert Solow, Louis Zukofsky, Arthur F. Burns, Clifton Fadiman, Elliott V. Bell, John Gassner, Lionel Trilling (who later fictionalized him as a main character in his novel \"The Middle of the Journey\"), Guy Endore, and City College student poet Henry Zolinsky. In the intellectual environment of Columbia he gained friends and respect. His professors and fellow students found him a talented writer and believed he might become a major poet or novelist.\n\nIn his sophomore year, Chambers joined the Boar's Head Society and wrote a play called \"A Play for Puppets\" for Columbia's literary magazine \"The Morningside\", which he edited. The work was deemed blasphemous by many students and administrators, and the controversy spread to New York City newspapers. Later, the play would be used against Chambers during his testimony against Alger Hiss. Disheartened over the controversy, Chambers left Columbia in 1925. From Columbia, Chambers also knew Isaiah Oggins, who went into the Soviet underground a few years earlier; Chambers's wife, Esther Shemitz. Chambers, knew Oggins's wife, Nerma Berman Oggins, from the Rand School of Social Science, the ILGWU, and \"The World Tomorrow\".\n\nIn 1924, Chambers read Vladimir Lenin's \"Soviets at Work\" and was deeply affected by it. He now saw the dysfunctional nature of his family, he would write, as \"in miniature the whole crisis of the middle class\"; a malaise from which Communism promised liberation. Chambers's biographer Sam Tanenhaus wrote that Lenin's authoritarianism was \"precisely what attracts Chambers ... He had at last found his church\"; that is, he became a Marxist. In 1925, Chambers joined the Communist Party of the United States (CPUSA) (then known as the Workers Party of America). Chambers wrote and edited for Communist publications, including \"The Daily Worker\" newspaper and \"The New Masses\" magazine.\n\nCombining his literary talents with his devotion to Communism, Chambers wrote four short stories in 1931 about proletarian hardship and revolt, including \"Can You Make Out Their Voices?\", considered by critics as one of the best pieces of fiction from the American Communist movement.\nHallie Flanagan co-adapted and produced it as a play entitled \"Can You Hear Their Voices?\" (q.v. Bibliography of Whittaker Chambers), staged across America and in many other countries. Chambers also worked as a translator during this period; among his works was the English version of Felix Salten's 1923 novel \"Bambi, A Life in the Woods\".\n\nChambers was recruited to join the \"Communist underground\" and began his career as a spy, working for a GRU apparatus headed by Alexander Ulanovsky (aka Ulrich). Later, his main controller in the underground was Josef Peters (whom CPUSA General Secretary Earl Browder later replaced with Rudy Baker). Chambers claimed Peters introduced him to Harold Ware (although he later denied he had ever been introduced to Ware), and that he was head of a Communist underground cell in Washington that reportedly included:\n\nApart from Marion Bachrach, these people were all members of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal administration. Chambers worked in Washington as an organizer among Communists in the city and as a courier between New York and Washington for stolen documents which were delivered to Boris Bykov, the GRU station chief.\n\nUsing the codename \"Karl\" or \"Carl\", Chambers served during the mid-1930s as a courier between various covert sources and Soviet intelligence. In addition to the Ware group mentioned above, other sources that Chambers dealt with allegedly included:\n\nChambers carried on his espionage activities from 1932 until 1937 or 1938 even while his faith in Communism was waning. He became increasingly disturbed by Joseph Stalin's Great Purge, which began in 1936. He was also fearful for his own life, having noted the murder in Switzerland of Ignace Reiss, a high-ranking Soviet spy who had broken with Stalin, and the disappearance of Chambers's friend and fellow spy Juliet Stuart Poyntz in the United States. Poyntz had vanished in 1937, shortly after she had visited Moscow and returned disillusioned with the Communist cause due to the Stalinist Purges.\n\nChambers ignored several orders that he travel to Moscow, worried that he might be \"purged.\" He also started concealing some of the documents he collected from his sources. He planned to use these, along with several rolls of microfilm photographs of documents, as a \"life preserver\" to prevent the Soviets from killing him and his family.\n\nIn 1938, Chambers broke with Communism and took his family into hiding, storing the \"life preserver\" at the home of his nephew and his parents. Initially, he had no plans to give information on his espionage activities to the U.S. government. His espionage contacts were his friends, and he had no desire to inform on them.\n\nIn his examination of Chambers's conversion from the political left to the right, author Daniel Oppenheimer noted that Chambers substituted his passion for communism for a passion for God. Chambers saw the world in black and white terms both before his defection and after. In his autobiography, he presented his devotion to communism as a reason for living, but after defecting saw his actions as being part of an \"absolute evil.\" \n\nThe August 1939 Hitler–Stalin non-aggression pact drove Chambers to take action against the Soviet Union. In September 1939, at the urging of anti-Communist, Russian-born journalist Isaac Don Levine, Chambers and Levine met with Assistant Secretary of State Adolf A. Berle. Levine had introduced Chambers to Walter Krivitsky, who was already informing American and British authorities about Soviet agents who held posts in both governments. Krivitsky told Chambers it was their duty to inform. Chambers agreed to reveal what he knew on the condition of immunity from prosecution. During the meeting, which took place at Berle's home, Woodley Mansion in Washington, Chambers named 18 current and former government employees as spies or Communist sympathizers. Many names mentioned held relatively minor posts or were already under suspicion. Some names, however, were more significant and surprising: Alger Hiss, his brother Donald Hiss, and Laurence Duggan—who were all respected, mid-level officials in the State Department—and Lauchlin Currie, a special assistant to Franklin Roosevelt. Another person named had worked on a top secret bombsight project at the Aberdeen Proving Grounds.\n\nBerle found Chambers's information tentative, unclear, and uncorroborated. He took the information to the White House, but the President dismissed it, to which Berle made little if any objection. Berle kept his notes, however (later, evidence during Hiss's perjury trials).\n\nBerle notified the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of Chambers's information in March 1940. In February 1941, Krivitsky was found dead in his hotel room. While police ruled the death a suicide, it was widely speculated that Krivitsky had been killed by Soviet intelligence. Worried that the Soviets might try to kill Chambers too, Berle again told the FBI about his interview with Chambers. The FBI interviewed Chambers in May 1942 and June 1945, but took no immediate action, in line with the political orientation of the United States, which viewed the potential threat from the USSR as minor, when compared to that of Nazi Germany. Only in November 1945, when Elizabeth Bentley defected and corroborated much of Chambers's story, did the FBI begin to take Chambers seriously).\n\nBy the time of the Berle meeting, Chambers had come out of hiding after a year and joined the staff of \"Time\" (April 1939). He landed a cover story within a month on James Joyce's latest book, \"Finnegans Wake\". He started at the back of the magazine, reviewing books and film with James Agee and then Calvin Fixx. When Fixx suffered a heart attack in October 1942, Wilder Hobson succeeded him as Chambers's assistant editor in Arts & Entertainment. Other writers working for Chambers in that section included: novelist Nigel Dennis, future \"New York Times\" Book Review editor Harvey Breit, and poets Howard Moss and Weldon Kees.\n\nDuring this time, a struggle arose between those, like Theodore H. White and Richard Lauterbach, who raised criticism of what they saw as the elitism, corruption and ineptitude of Chiang Kai-shek's regime in China and advocated greater cooperation with Mao's Red Army in the struggle against Japanese imperialism, and Chambers and others like Willi Schlamm who adhered to a staunchly pro-Chiang, anti-communist perspective (and who both later joined the founding editorial board of William F. Buckley, Jr.'s \"National Review\"). \"Time\" founder Henry Luce, who grew up in China and was a personal friend of Chiang and his wife, came down squarely on the side of Chambers to the point that White complained that his stories were being censored, and even suppressed in their entirety, and left Time shortly after the war as a result.\n\nIn 1940, William Saroyan lists Fixx among \"contributing editors\" at \"Time\" in Saroyan's play, \"Love's Old Sweet Song\". Luce promoted him senior editor in either Summer 1942 (Weinstein) or September 1943 (Tanenhaus) and became a member of \"Time\"'s \"Senior Group\" (which determined editorial policy) in December 1943.\n\nChambers, close colleagues, and many staff members as of the 1930s helped elevate \"TIME\"–\"interstitial intellectuals,\" as historian Robert Vanderlan has called them. Colleague John Hersey described them as follows:\n\n\"Time\" was in an interesting phase; an editor named Tom Matthews had gathered a brilliant group of writers, including James Agee, Robert Fitzgerald, Whittaker Chambers, Robert Cantwell, Louis Kronenberger, and Calvin Fixx ... They were dazzling. Time's style was still very hokey—\"backward ran sentences till reeled the mind\"—but I could tell, even as a neophyte, who had written each of the pieces in the magazine, because each of these writers had such a distinctive voice.\n\nBy early 1948, Chambers had become one of the best known writer-editors at \"Time\". First had come his scathing commentary \"The Ghosts on the Roof\" (March 5, 1945) on the Yalta Conference (in which Hiss partook). Subsequent cover-story essays profiled Marian Anderson, Arnold J. Toynbee, Rebecca West and Reinhold Niebuhr. The cover story on Marian Anderson (\"Religion: In Egypt Land\", December 30, 1946) proved so popular that the magazine broke its rule of non-attribution in response to readers' letters:\n\nMost Time cover stories are written and edited by the regular staffs of the section in which they appear. Certain cover stories, that present special difficulties or call for a special literary skill, are written by Senior Editor Whittaker Chambers.\n\nIn a 1945 letter to \"Time\" colleague Charles Wertenbaker, Time-Life deputy editorial director John Shaw Billings said of Chambers, \"Whit puts on the best show in words of any writer we've ever had ... a superb technician, particularly skilled in the mosaic art of putting a \"Time\" section together.\" Chambers was at the height of his career when the Hiss case broke later that year.\n\nDuring this period, Chambers and his family became Quakers, attending Pipe Creek Friends Meetinghouse near his Maryland farm.\n\nOn August 3, 1948, Chambers was called to testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC). There he gave the names of individuals he said were part of the underground \"Ware group\" in the late 1930s, including Alger Hiss. He thus once again named Hiss as a member of the Communist Party, but did not yet make any accusations of espionage. In subsequent HUAC sessions, Hiss testified and initially denied that he knew anyone by the name of Chambers, but on seeing him in person (and after it became clear that Chambers knew details about Hiss's life), said that he had known Chambers under the name \"George Crosley\". Hiss denied that he had ever been a Communist, however. Since Chambers still presented no evidence, the committee had initially been inclined to take the word of Hiss on the matter. However, committee member Richard Nixon received secret information from the FBI which had led him to pursue the issue. When it issued its report, HUAC described Hiss's testimony as \"vague and evasive\".\n\nThe country quickly became divided over the Hiss–Chambers issue. President Harry S. Truman, not pleased with the allegation that the man who had presided over the United Nations Charter Conference was a Communist, dismissed the case as a \"red herring\".\nIn the atmosphere of increasing anti-communism that would later be termed McCarthyism, many conservatives viewed the Hiss case as emblematic of what they saw as Democrats' laxity towards the danger of communist infiltration and influence in the State Department. Many liberals, in turn, saw the Hiss case as part of the desperation of the Republican party to regain the office of president, having been out of power for 16 years. Truman also issued Executive Order 9835, which initiated a program of loyalty reviews for federal employees in 1947.\n\nHiss filed a $75,000 libel suit against Chambers on October 8, 1948. Under pressure from Hiss's lawyers, Chambers finally retrieved his envelope of evidence and presented it to the HUAC after they subpoenaed them. It contained four notes in Alger Hiss's handwriting, sixty-five typewritten copies of State Department documents and five strips of microfilm, some of which contained photographs of State Department documents. The press came to call these the \"Pumpkin Papers\" referring to the fact that Chambers had briefly hidden the microfilm in a hollowed-out pumpkin. These documents indicated that Hiss knew Chambers long after mid-1936, when Hiss said he had last seen \"Crosley,\" and also that Hiss had engaged in espionage with Chambers. Chambers explained his delay in producing this evidence as an effort to spare an old friend from more trouble than necessary. Until October 1948, Chambers had repeatedly stated that Hiss had \"not\" engaged in espionage, even when Chambers testified under oath. Chambers was forced to testify at the Hiss trials that he had committed perjury several times, which reduced his credibility in the eyes of his critics.\n\nThe five rolls of 35 mm film known as the \"pumpkin papers\" were thought until late 1974 to be locked in HUAC files. Independent researcher Stephen W. Salant, an economist at the University of Michigan, sued the U.S. Justice Department in 1975 when his request for access to them under the Freedom of Information Act was denied. On July 31, 1975, as a result of this lawsuit and follow-on suits filed by Peter Irons and by Alger Hiss and William Reuben, the Justice Department released copies of the \"pumpkin papers\" that had been used to implicate Hiss. One roll of film turned out to be totally blank due to overexposure, two others are faintly legible copies of nonclassified Navy Department documents relating to such subjects as life rafts and fire extinguishers, and the remaining two are photographs of the State Department documents introduced by the prosecution at the two Hiss trials, relating to U.S./German relations in the late 1930s.\n\nThis story, however, as reported by the \"New York Times\" in the 1970s, contains only a partial truth. The blank roll had been mentioned by Chambers in his autobiography \"Witness.\" But in addition to innocuous farm reports, etc., the documents on the other pumpkin patch microfilms also included \"confidential memos sent from overseas embassies to diplomatic staff in Washington, D.C.\"; worse, those memos had originally been transmitted in code, which, thanks to their (presumably) having both coded originals and the translations forwarded by Hiss, the Soviets now could easily understand.\n\nHiss could not be tried for espionage at that time, because the evidence indicated the offense had occurred more than ten years prior to that time, and the statute of limitations for espionage was five years. Instead, Hiss was indicted for two counts of perjury relating to testimony he had given before a federal grand jury the previous December. There he had denied giving any documents to Whittaker Chambers, and testified he had not seen Chambers after mid-1936.\n\nHiss was tried twice for perjury. The first trial, in June 1949, ended with the jury deadlocked eight to four for conviction. In addition to Chambers's testimony, a government expert testified that other papers typed on a typewriter belonging to the Hiss family matched the secret papers produced by Chambers. An impressive array of character witnesses appeared on behalf of Hiss: two U.S. Supreme Court justices, Felix Frankfurter and Stanley Reed, former Democratic presidential nominee John W. Davis and future Democratic presidential nominee Adlai Stevenson. Chambers, on the other hand, was attacked by Hiss's attorneys as \"an enemy of the Republic, a blasphemer of Christ, a disbeliever in God, with no respect for matrimony or motherhood\". In the second trial, Hiss's defense produced a psychiatrist who characterized Chambers as a \"psychopathic personality\" and \"a pathological liar\".\n\nThe second trial ended in January 1950 with Hiss found guilty on both counts of perjury. He was sentenced to five years in prison.\n\nChambers had resigned from \"Time\" in December 1948. After the Hiss Case, he wrote a few articles for \"Fortune\", \"Life\", and \"Look\" magazines.\n\nIn 1951 during HUAC hearings, William Spiegel of Baltimore identified a photo of \"Carl Schroeder\" as Whittaker Chambers while he was describing his involvement with David Zimmerman, a spy in Chambers' network.\n\nIn 1952, Chambers's book \"Witness\" was published to widespread acclaim. The book was a combination of autobiography and a warning about the dangers of Communism. Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. called it \"a powerful book\". Ronald Reagan credited the book as the inspiration behind his conversion from a New Deal Democrat to a conservative Republican. \"Witness\" was a bestseller for more than a year and helped pay off Chambers's legal debts, though bills lingered (\"as Odysseus was beset by a ghost\").\n\nAccording to commentator George Will in 2017:\n\n\"Witness\" became a canonical text of conservatism. Unfortunately, it injected conservatism with a sour, whiney, complaining, crybaby populism. It is the screechy and dominant tone of the loutish faux conservatism that today is erasing [William F.] Buckley's legacy of infectious cheerfulness and unapologetic embrace of high culture. Chambers wallowed in cloying sentimentality and curdled resentment about \"the plain men and women\" — \"my people, humble people, strong in common sense, in common goodness\" — enduring the \"musk of snobbism\" emanating from the \"socially formidable circles\" of the \"nicest people\" produced by \"certain collegiate eyries.\"\n\nIn 1955, William F. Buckley Jr. started the magazine \"National Review\", and Chambers worked there as senior editor, publishing articles there for a little over a year and a half (October 1957–June 1959). The most widely cited article to date is a scathing review, \"Big Sister is Watching You\", of Ayn Rand's \"Atlas Shrugged\".\n\nIn 1959, after resigning from \"National Review\", Chambers and his wife embarked on a visit to Europe, the highlight of which was a meeting with Arthur Koestler and Margarete Buber-Neumann at Koestler's home in Austria. That fall, he recommenced studies at Western Maryland College (now McDaniel College) in Westminster, Maryland.\n\nIn 1930 or 1931, Chambers married the artist Esther Shemitz (1900–1986).\n\nThe couple had two children, Ellen and John during the 1930s. (Communist leadership expected couples to go childless, but like many Chambers refused, a choice he cited as part of his gradual disillusionment with communism.). His grandchildren include Stephen, Pamela, and John Into. Kyle Into is his great grandson.\n\nIn 1978, Allen Weinstein's \"Perjury\" revealed that the FBI has a copy of a letter in which Chambers described homosexual liaisons during the 1930s. The letter copy states that Chambers gave up these practices in 1938 when he left the underground, attributed to newfound Christianity. The letter has remained controversial from many perspectives.\n\nChambers died of a heart attack on July 9, 1961, at his farm in Westminster, Maryland. He had suffered from angina since the age of 38 and had previously suffered several heart attacks.\n\n\"Cold Friday\", his second memoir, was published posthumously in 1964 with the help of Duncan Norton-Taylor. The book predicted that the fall of Communism would start in the satellite states surrounding the Soviet Union in Eastern Europe. A collection of his correspondence with William F. Buckley, Jr., \"Odyssey of a Friend\", was published in 1968; a collection of his journalism—including several of his \"Time\" and \"National Review\" writings, was published in 1989 as \"Ghosts on the Roof: Selected Journalism of Whittaker Chambers\" (q.v. Bibliography of Whittaker Chambers.)\n\n\nChambers's book \"Witness\" is on the reading lists of The Heritage Foundation, \"The Weekly Standard\", The Leadership Institute, and the Russell Kirk Center for Cultural Renewal. He is regularly cited by conservative writers such as Heritage's president Edwin Feulner and George H. Nash.\n\nIn 1984, President Ronald Reagan posthumously awarded Chambers the Presidential Medal of Freedom, for his contribution to \"the century's epic struggle between freedom and totalitarianism\". In 1988, Interior Secretary Donald P. Hodel granted national landmark status to the Pipe Creek Farm. In 2001, members of the George W. Bush Administration held a private ceremony to commemorate the hundredth anniversary of Chambers's birth. Speakers included William F. Buckley, Jr.\n\nIn 2007, John Chambers stated that a library with his father's papers should open in 2008 on the Chambers farm in Maryland. He indicated that the facility will be available to all scholars and that a separate library, rather than one within an established university, is needed to guarantee open access.\n\nIn 2011, author Elena Maria Vidal interviewed David Chambers about his grandfather's legacy. Versions of the interview were published in the \"National Observer\" and \"The American Conservative\".\n\nIn 2017, the National Review Institute inaugurated a \"Whittaker Chambers Award\" for its 2017 Ideas Summit, for presentation on March 16, 2017. The first recipient is Daniel Hannan, dubbed \"the man who brought you Brexit\" by \"The Guardian\".\n\nChambers translated Bambi, a Life in the Woods, by Felix Salten, into English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46834218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46834218", "title": "Yola people", "text": "Yola people\n\nThe Yola people were an ethnic group that formed in the baronies of Forth and Bargy in County Wexford after the Norman invasion of Ireland at Bannow Bay in 1169. They were descendents of the original Norman invaders and hence they were distinct from the rest of Ireland in their customs, manners and appearance. As time progressed, the Yola people became mixed with the diverse medieval ethnic mix which colonized County Wexford, including French, Norman, Danish, Welsh, English, Irish, Flemish and the original Old Norse settlers who colonized the area prior to the invasion.\n\nThe Yola people used a number of unique customs that were thought to have originated in the old Duchy of Normandy. These included mumming, patrons, and the tradition of placing funeral crosses on roadway trees, which still continue to this day. They were known to be extremely law-abiding; incidents of robbery, murder and the like were seldom recorded in the baronies. \n\nA woman's customary dress was a lilac kircher or bonnet with ribbons, and a large frock worn as the main garment, with ribbons of various colors tying them across the waist. A man wore a waistcoat, short trousers and long socks with a hat. \n\nNorman utensils such as a \"peeler\" were used for cooking bread. Many unique dishes such as \"buskés\", a type of spiced corn bread, were common in the area. \n\nA local custom was to take a daily afternoon nap known as an \"enteete\" in the local tongue, similar to the Spanish siesta. It was common at this time of day to cross from one end of the baronies to the other and not to see a single person on the roads.\n\nThe Yola language, also known as the Forth and Bargy dialect, was a unique dialect that formed in the baronies. It was mainly spoken in the structure of Old/Middle English but contained many loanwords from Irish, Norman-French and Old Norse. It was similar to the Dorset dialects of West England, but its many loanwords have made it a source of major research by many academics. The language crossed the lines between Old Frisian and Old English and contained many words found only in Old Frisian. This has led some researchers to believe that it may have originated in the Frisia region (North Holland). There were also Flemish mercenaries who took part in the 1169 invasions who may have contributed to the some of the Flemish content, but the Flemish influence on the dialect was only very little. This was spoken as the main language until the late 19th century and the Irish language never took precedence in the baronies.\n\nThe baronies of Forth and Bargy are quite unique in that they do not experience as harsh a climate as the rest of the country, which allows for many crops to thrive in their flat and fertile plains. The main crops grown by the Yola people were beans, peas and barley; potatoes were not relied upon as heavily as in the rest of Ireland. The farmers practised an advanced crop rotation and fertilizing system far ahead of the rest of the country. For this reason the baronies did not experience the effects of the Great Famine and actually thrived during this period by simply relying on the bean crop.\n\nThe Yola people eventually merged into Irish culture. Many lands were confiscated during the plantations and modern English was introduced at this time. The Yola language eventually succumbed to the same factors that killed off the Irish language in the county, which was the stigmatization of the language and the introduction of English in schools. The language was officially declared extinct in the 1850s. Their inhabitants still populate the majority of the baronies and many customs and words survive in the locality.\n\n"}
{"id": "21804971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21804971", "title": "ǀXam and ǂKhomani heartland", "text": "ǀXam and ǂKhomani heartland\n\nThe ǀXam and ǂKhomani heartland tentative World Heritage Site, consists of regions located to the south and north of Upington, respectively, in the Northern Cape Province of South Africa. The ǀXam and ǂKhomani (more correctly Nǁnǂe) people were linguistically related groups of San (Bushman) people, their respective languages (ǀXam and ǂKhomani) being part of the ǃKwi language group. Descendants of both the ǀXam and Nǁnǂe include Afrikaans-speaking ‘Coloured’ people on farms or in towns in the region amongst whom the precolonial languages are either entirely extinct (in the case of ǀXam) or can be spoken by but a very few people (in the case of Nǁnǂe).\n\nThe two areas consist of semi-arid to arid tracts of the Upper Karoo (to the south) and the Southern Kalahari (to the north). Both areas are rich in archaeological traces inter alia of the Later Stone Age, while rocky hills and outcrops in the southern area (which has been referred to as ǀXam-ka ǃxau, meaning home of the ǀXam) have a wealth of rock art sites, preponderantly in the form of rock engravings. In the ǂKhomani area to the north (where the sandy desert topography precludes rock art) a cultural mapping project contributes to a revival of interest in cultural traditions in the younger generation.\nThe ‡Khomani San people descended from several original San groups which include the ||Ng!u (close relatives of the !Xam, who lived south of the !Gariep River), the ‡Khomani who spoke the same language as the ||Ng!u but had a distinct lineage, the |’Auni, the Khatea and the Njamani. There are approximately 1 500 adults spread over an area of more than 1 000 square kilometres in the Northern Cape Province. Approximately 8000 people live in the northern reaches of Gordonia, at Witdraai, Welkom and Askham, just south of the Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park. Others live in the towns of Rietfontein, Upington, Loubos, Olifantshoek and other surrounding villages and settlements.\n\nWith the official proclamation of the Kalahari Gemsbok National Park in 1931, the majority of the Khomani, as well as the Mier people who lived in that area, were forced to move to other areas. Some settled at the national park headquarters in Twee Rivieran and were employed by the park. Others, who were also dispossessed of their land, dispersed into Namibia and other nearby settlements. \n\nThe Khomani San, as well as the Mier people (who were also relocated due to the new park), were allowed to continue living in certain areas within the park however, they lost their rights to hunt and manage stock on the land.\n\nIn 1995, the ‡Khomani San community lodged a claim for the restitution of 400 000 hectares of land in the Kalahari Gemsbok Park. After protracted negotiations, the claims were settled on 21 March 1999, with the official transfer of title to six Kalahari farms, which were approximately 34 728 hectares, to the ‡Khomani San Common Property Association (CPA). A form of collective trust allowed by the Communal Property Associations Act (No 28 of 1996) for use by communities that have benefited from land restitution under the Restitution of Land Rights Act (No. 22 of 1994). Additionally in 2007 it was agreed that a further two farms (Sonderwater and Rolletjies – approximately 6 020 hectares) were be transferred to the ‡Khomani San CPA.\n\nFurthermore, on the 29th May 2002 the conditional allocation of approximately 57,903 hectares of land within the Park were to be managed as a Contractual National Park, namely the !Ae!Hai Kalahari Heritage Park. This land was committed to the ownership of the ‡Khomani San and Mier communities through what is known as the !Ae!Hai Kalahari Heritage Park Agreement. In this agreement the ‡Khomani San community was also granted preferential tourism rights over 80 000 hectares south of the Auob River inside the Park, as well as the right to use 473 830 hectares of land between the Auob and Nossob Rivers for symbolic and cultural purposes. Due to increased social decay and a lack of post-restitution support from the South African government, there was no significant improvement of the livelihoods of the people since the land gains. In 2012 fifty Rotary clubs in Germany and 3 clubs in South Africa in collaboration with Peace Parks Foundation set up a project to break down the historical injustices and to give the ‡Khomani San the necessary guidance and assistance in order to create an sustainable operation system of the !Ae !Hai Kalahari Heritage Park. Furthermore, the development and operation of the joint farms which were given to them by the South African government in 1999 and 2002 after a successful land claim. The project is aimed to give the ‡Khomani San a chance to live in dignity, freedom and economic independence while retaining their traditional identity. The German Ministry for International Cooperation and Development (BMZ) joined Rotary to support the project for four years. \n\nOne of the primary goals is the development of tourism facilities where visitors may experience the unique attributes of this arid region and its people.\n\nThe ǀXam and ǂKhomani heartland site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on May 15, 2004 in the Cultural category.\n\nThe northern component, the ǂKhomani Cultural Landscape, was inscribed on the World Heritage list on 8 July 2017, during the 41st session of the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) World Heritage Committee which took place in Kraków, Poland, 2–12 July 2017.\n\n"}
