{"id": "7058407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7058407", "title": "2006 transatlantic aircraft plot security reaction", "text": "2006 transatlantic aircraft plot security reaction\n\nThis article details the security measures taken in response to the 2006 transatlantic aircraft plot.\n\nFollowing the raids, the terror alert level was raised by Britain's Joint Terrorist Analysis Centre from 'severe' to 'critical', signalling an attack was believed to be imminent. Security at all British airports was raised to the highest level, with all property having to go into the aircraft's hold, except for essentials such as travel documents and wallets. Passengers travelling with small children were permitted to carry baby food but had to taste it in front of staff.\n\nOn 14 August 2006, the threat level was reduced from 'Critical' to 'Severe'. An announcement was made that the hand baggage rules would shortly be relaxed to permit the carrying of one small item of hand baggage, although the ban on all liquids remained. Hand baggage was reintroduced at some smaller airports on 14 August, but was not permitted at Heathrow and Gatwick Airports until 15 August.\n\nDespite having made it clear in August that the security measures were \"here to stay\", at the end of September, under pressure from the flight industry and professional musicians, the British government relaxed the size restrictions to the aviation industry standard (56 cm × 45 cm × 25 cm) and allowed musical instruments as hand luggage.\n\nOn 6 November 2006 the restrictions were relaxed once again to allow limited volumes of liquids in the cabin.\n\nIn November 2007, Transport Secretary Ruth Kelly announced that from 8 January 2008, British airports would be able to allow more than one item of hand luggage on board. This was following criticism in October by the shadow transport secretary Theresa Villiers, who said that because of the restrictive rules, Heathrow was \"rapidly becoming a national embarrassment\". Chief executive of British Airways Willie Walsh was also critical, saying that they are \"damaging the UK's reputation around the world from a business perspective\".\n\nFollowing the operation, the United States Department of Homeland Security banned all liquids and gels except baby formula and prescription medications in the name of the ticket holder in carry-on luggage on all flights. The DHS level in the United States was raised to 'severe' (red) for all flights from the UK. The terror level for all other domestic or non-British international flights in the United States was raised to High (orange). According to White House Press Secretary Tony Snow, President Bush was aware of the plot by 6 August and approved raising the alert on 9 August.\n\n\nPassengers travelling from and through all other UK airports were temporarily only permitted to carry-on those items on a restricted list, and these items had to be carried in transparent plastic bags. No liquids could be carried on board. Liquid medications, such as insulin for diabetics, were banned, \"unless verified as authentic.\" All laptops, mobile phones, digital audio players and other electronic items were also banned.\n\nIt was suggested in \"The Times\" that the restrictions on hand baggage would be \"enforced pending a decision from the National Aviation Security Committee following which they may be made permanent.\" This was confirmed by sources close to Douglas Alexander, the Secretary of State for Transport, on BBC News.\n\nOn 14 August 2006, an announcement was made that the restrictions on hand baggage for flights originating in the UK would shortly be liberalised to permit carriage of one small (45 cm × 35 cm × 16 cm) piece of hand baggage per person. Whilst electronics, books, and other dry items were again permitted on flights leaving the UK, all liquids above 100ml remained banned in hand luggage.\n\nOn 2 November 2014, liquid restriction rules will be eased.\n\nSimilar emergency restrictions were placed on airline passengers traveling within and from the United States. Initially, all liquids were forbidden, including beverages, hair gels, toothpaste, lipstick, sunscreen, and hand lotions, due to the suspicion that liquid chemicals were planned to be used in the attacks. Electronic devices (iPods, laptops, etc.) were still allowed for domestic flights.\n\nAs of 26 September 2006, the Transportation Security Administration adjusted the ban on liquids, aerosols and gels. Travellers are permitted to carry liquids through security checkpoints in containers of 3.4 ounces (100 mL) or less that fit comfortably in one quart-size clear plastic zip-top bag. This procedure came to be known as \"3-1-1 for carry-ons\" (3.4 ounce containers in a 1 quart bag, 1 bag per passenger). Items purchased in the airside zone after clearing security could be brought on board without restriction. Other exemptions to this restriction include medications and breast milk.\n\nOn 10 October 2006 a European Union Regulation placed restrictions on carrying liquid materials in hand luggage across the EU.\n\nThis restriction was eased on 2 November 2014 with new RapidScan liquid explosive detectors.\n\nOn 1 March 2007, The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport also set out new regulations concerning the carriage of liquids in carry-on luggage for international flights. Passengers travelling abroad from Japan are required to place liquids less than 100ml into a transparent resealable bag not exceeding 20 cm × 20 cm. Any liquids over 100ml are forbidden.\n\nOn 8 May 2007, Singapore introduced new liquid restrictions, which is limited to 100ml for all flights (excluding Seletar Airport), where Changi Airport is the biggest airport with more frequent visitors and direct services. Liquids less than 100ml must be sealed into transparent resealable bag not exceeding 20 cm x 20 cm.\n\nThis restriction was eased on 2 November 2014.\n\nSubsequently, similar restrictions for liquids in carry on luggage were set out in many other countries worldwide including Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Vietnam, China and Singapore who all set out liquid restrictions on international flights.\n\nOverall, an estimated 400,000 passengers were affected because of the alerts. It has been estimated that the first day of delays cost the airlines over £175 million. As many as 20,000 bags are believed to have been misplaced at Heathrow in the days following the flight cancellations.\n\nSome inbound flights to London Heathrow Airport were cancelled on the day of the arrests, most notably the Thursday short-haul flights of British Airways. Some flights to and from London Gatwick Airport were also suspended, \nOn Sunday 13 August 30% of flights out of Heathrow were cancelled to reduce pressure on the screeners. By 15 August flight cancellations had fallen to 47 flights at Heathrow, and 8 Ryanair flights from Stansted. It was anticipated that cancellations would reduce on 16 August, with 90% of flights expected to depart as scheduled.\n\nOn 12 August a public argument broke out between BAA, the operator of Heathrow and other airports, and British Airways, with Willie Walsh, BA's Chief Executive, accusing BAA of not being able to cope with the increased security and baggage checks. Ryanair also called on the British government to employ police and military reservists to speed up the full body searches which were now mandated, with Chief Executive Michael O'Leary saying that:\n\nOn 18 August Ryanair's O'Leary delivered an ultimatum to the British government demanding the resumption of normal hand baggage dimensions and hand screening one passenger in four instead of one in two within one week, otherwise Ryanair would sue the Government for compensation under section 93 of the Transport Act 2000. The government responded that the actions were taken under the Aviation Security Act 1982, and no compensation was payable.\n\nSeveral pilots have complained about the \"ridiculous\" luggage restrictions that was thought up by \"utter morons\", the Sunday Herald reported. Carolyn Evans, head of flight safety at the British Airline Pilots Association, said that \"the procedures put in place are not sustainable long term, and unless the passengers are treated more reasonably we will not have an industry left\".\n\n\"The Times\" commented the day after the arrests, that the economic effects were minor and that the FTSE 100 index showed only \"mild signs of strain\", suggesting that terror was already priced into assets, that the market impact will be contained, and that \"what is lost on the swings may be gained on the roundabouts\". It observed that the real commercial risk is that \"people's behaviour is altered... change may come so subtly and subconsciously that it is hard to see, let alone measure… people may stop travelling for example, not because they are scared of being blown up, but because they are tired of complying with necessary security measures.\"\n\nEstimates have also been made of the cost to airlines of their disrupted business.\nBritish Airways had to cancel 1280 flights, at a cost of £40 million. Ryanair had to cancel 500 flights, and are suing the UK government for the £3.3 million the cancellations cost them. Easyjet had to cancel 469 flights, at a cost of about £4 million. BAA says the alert cost them £13 million.\n\nBA is considering making a claim for compensation against BAA, which operates Heathrow, for its failure to provide adequate security services and shortages of personnel during the crisis. The Civil Aviation Authority has just commenced its five-yearly review of operation of the airport, and it is likely that BAA's ability to handle the security alert will now become part of that review. The combined airline losses may have totalled £250 million.\n\nAir passengers also switched to other means of travel. Sea France ferry company operating from Dover to Calais announced that it had beaten its all-time record for number of passengers carried in one week, while Eurostar found that at the peak of the alert it was receiving 10 bookings per minute for immediate travel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3091244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3091244", "title": "Adequate Yearly Progress", "text": "Adequate Yearly Progress\n\nAdequate Yearly Progress (AYP) is a measurement defined by the United States federal No Child Left Behind Act that allows the U.S. Department of Education to determine how every public school and school district in the country is performing academically according to results on standardized tests. As defined by National Council on Measurement in Education (NCME), AYP is \"the amount of annual achievement growth to be expected by students in a particular school, district, or state in the U.S. federal accountability system, No Child Left Behind (NCLB).\" \nAYP has been identified as one of the sources of controversy surrounding George W. Bush administration's Elementary and Secondary Education Act. Private schools are not required to make AYP.\n\nThe No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, Sec. 1111 (b)(F), requires that \"each state shall establish a timeline for adequate yearly progress. The timeline shall ensure that not later than 12 years after the 2001-2002 school year, all students in each group described in subparagraph (C)(v) will meet or exceed the State's standards.\" These timelines are developed by state education agencies working under guidance from the federal government. The No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) is the law used as the primary statute governing the federal government's role in education. \n\nThe federal government's role in this area was earlier defined under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). The ESEA stated that its purpose was to strengthen and improve educational quality and educational opportunities in the nation's elementary and secondary schools. These goals were to be achieved through financial assistance to local educational agencies for the education of children of low-income families or with disabilities. In 2001, ESEA was modified and renamed the No Child Left Behind Act. Strengthening and improving the education of elementary and secondary school students remains the goal of NCLB and the AYP measurement.\n\nAccording to the Department of Education, AYP is a diagnostic tool that determines how schools need to improve and where financial resources should be allocated. Former U.S. Secretary of Education Rod Paige wrote, \"The statute gives States and local educational agencies significant flexibility in how they direct resources and tailor interventions to the needs of individual schools identified for improvement... schools are held accountable for the achievement of all students, not just average student performance.\"\n\nThe NCLB makes provisions for schools that do not demonstrate adequate yearly progress. Those that do not meet AYP for two years in a row are identified as \"schools in need of improvement\" and are subject to immediate interventions by the State Education Agency in their state. First steps include technical assistance and then, according to the Department of Education, \"more serious corrective actions\" occur if the school fails to make AYP.\n\nThe purpose of the No Child Left Behind Act is to ensure that all children have a fair, equal, and significant opportunity to obtain a high-quality education and reach. This is ensured through the use of academic assessments, teacher preparation and training, rigorous curriculum and adequate and proper instructional material that will in turn aid in performance on the challenging state academic standards that all students are to meet with proficiency. This process is meant to help meet the educational needs of low-achieving children in the nation's poverty-stricken schools, and have every school performing at a national standard level. If this is achieved, then NCLB is said to have \"closed the gap\". This means that the achievement gap between high- and low-performing schools and children will be less prominent and all will be achieving at the same level and standard throughout the nation. Thus, there will be no child left behind and no schools identified as \"schools in need of improvement\".\n\nAll kindergarten through twelfth grade schools are required to demonstrate AYP in the areas of reading/language arts, mathematics, graduation rates for high schools and districts, and at least one other academic indicator. \nStates are in charge of developing their own criteria for meeting AYP and must submit them for approval. Upon receipt, all criteria provided will be peer reviewed by a panel including representatives, parents, teachers and state and local educational agencies. After review, the states will receive feedback and recommendations from panelists on how to better align their criteria with the statute of No Child Left Behind. These requirements include ten specific guidelines:\n\n\nCurrently, schools are allowed to appeal their AYP findings to their State Education Agency and/or the U.S. Department of Education, if applicable. Appeals have been made in account of standardized test results and data collected by testing companies such as Educational Testing Service.\n\nThe NCLB requires that states use standardized assessments in order to measure AYP. These assessments allow state education agencies to develop target starting goals for AYP. After those are developed, states must increase student achievement in gradual increments in order for 100 percent of the students to become proficient on state assessments by the 2013-14 school year. The Illinois Department of Education reports, \"The NCLB Act is very prescriptive with regard to how this is to be done – very little flexibility is afforded to states. The same process was used to establish starting points for reading and math.\" Using assessment data from 2002, the U.S. Department of Education determined what specific percentages of students each state is required to make proficient in each subject area. Special considerations were made for students with limited English proficiency and individuals with disabilities. Once those percentages were determined, each State Department of Education is required to ensure the standards are the same for each public school, district and subgroup of students, irrespective of differences.\n\nAdequate Yearly Progress requires that every public school complete three requirements annually. \nRequirements for the percentage of growth is determined on a state-by-state basis. In Illinois those requirements include: \n\n\nAdditionally, state education agencies must determine the yearly progress of districts and identify districts in need of improvement. Some states, including Missouri, have lowered standards in order to assure the success of their schools and districts meeting AYP.\n\nEvery state education agency is required to determine which schools do not meet AYP every year. However, a specific designation by the U.S. Department of Education called \"Federal school improvement status\" applies only to schools that receive Title I funds. State education agencies are required to determine what larger goals are required of every school as they fail to perform annually.\n\nIf Title I schools do not meet AYP for two consecutive years, they are placed in \"Choice\" School Improvement Status, which means they must develop an improvement plan, provide students the option to transfer to a different school and provide them transportation to get there, and use part of their Title I funds for professional development for their teachers and staff. If a school does not make AYP for three consecutive years, they will be in \"Supplemental Services\" School Improvement Status, which means that in addition to all the \"Choice\" requirements above, they must also use some of their Title I funds to support students by providing tutoring or after-school programs from a state-approved provider. If a school fails AYP for four years in a row they enter \"Corrective Action\" Improvement Status, where they must provide both \"Choice\" and \"Supplemental Services\", as well as choose one of the following: replace responsible staff, implement a new curriculum, decrease a school's management authority, appoint an external expert to advise the school, or restructure the internal organization of the school. Lastly, if a school fails AYP for five years or more, they must implement one of the following: \n\n\nThese \"other major governance restructuring\" strategies were most popular in restructuring schools in 2007-2008, and allow schools to do a variety of things to improve their schools such as narrow the grade range, re-open as a theme school, close the school, create smaller learning communities, or create their own option that is not provided by the Department of Education. \n\nThe option of extending NCLB-required sanctions to non-Title I schools does exist; however, there is little current research indicating the implementation of this practice.\n\nState education agencies across the United States have developed numerous strategies designed to improve AYP. For instance, steps taken by the Georgia Department of Education include new and more rigorous curriculum, the placement of \"graduation specialists\" in each high school across the state, comprehensive high school redesign focused on rigorous and relevant education, and integrated technology throughout learning, including the Georgia Virtual School and a free online SAT prep course.\n\nHowever, outside critics and analysts continue to make their own suggestions on improvements for Adequate Yearly Progress. One example of this is Robert Manwaring (a Senior Policy Analyst at Education Sector), who has many suggestions at the federal, state and local levels. On the federal level, Manwaring believes that No Child Left Behind has been too \"hands-off\" and that states have been avoiding hard choices such as replacing people in failing schools. He believes intervention in low-performing districts has been too slow to occur. He believes the key is for the federal government to insist on heavier oversight from the states and to propose shorter timelines for quicker actions to be taken with consistently failing schools. He believes the federal government should continue to invest in school improvement, but move from a \"formula-driven program\" to competitive grants, which will reward schools who make drastic improvement in low-performing schools. He believes that states should be in charge of approving the \"other major restructuring plans\" (as discussed above) for schools, in order to ensure that they are the right steps to drastically improve student performance. Lastly, he believes Title I funding \"comparability\" requirements should be changed to make sure that all Title I schools receive an accurate amount of state and local funding. \n\nOn the state level, Manwaring believes that states are reluctant to intervene in low-performing schools, and that many state departments lack the experience or capacity to facilitate school turnaround anyway. He suggests that states should identify schools in need of improvement, and require districts to implement an intervention model, during which the state will provide support and monitor progress. He believes they should take control of charter schools by ensuring effective charter oversight, closing low-performing charter schools and providing a fair amount of funding and facilities to successful charters. Lastly, he states should monitor school restructuring closely and be prepared to step in when needed. \n\nOn the local level, Manwaring believes that since local school districts are closest to the schools, and have the flexibility necessary to act immediately for students, they should change their policies to ensure that schools have an equal amount of resources, and to reinforce the fact that long-term failure is unacceptable. He suggests that districts push for collective bargaining agreements that allow for improving the staff at low-performing schools, including evaluation systems that allow for the timely removal of poor performing teachers. He also believes that school leaders must be able to make radical changes quickly in order to turn around low-performing schools, with high teacher investment in such policies. Lastly, he believes that school districts need to be prepared to establish new schools in order to close the lowest-performing schools over time.\n\nSchools across the country have restructured according to standards dictated by the federal government, rather than local needs. A principal of one such school remarked, \"Putting all of the neediest special education students in a few schools seems to create insoluble challenges under No Child Left Behind.\" Those determinations often come down to the performance of small numbers of students that do not reflect the progress of the whole school. As of 2006, the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), which performs math and reading assessments of national education systems, does not include special education students as a significant portion of their assessment population.\n\nCriticisms are being met with a series of innovations on the state level. In 2007, the top official of the Ohio Department of Education diagnosed that NCLB \"paid no attention to whether students below proficient were making strides, or (those) above proficiency.\" Ohio is proposing a more subtle \"growth model\" that would allow schools to better demonstrate progress without jeopardizing past academic accomplishments.\n\nAnother controversial concern of NCLB is that it produces unintended consequences on other school subjects. Since AYP is based mostly on standardized state testing on the subjects of math and reading, it is believed that this may cause schools to neglect other subjects. Also, NCLB is thought to provide teachers with the motive to focus energy in the classroom towards the types of questions that students will face on proficiency-based tests as opposed to other questions and topics that should be addressed equally.\n\nThe New York State Department of Education is among a group of state education agencies that have voiced support for AYP.\n\nNCLB was not set in place just to make sure students meet proficiency, but also to encourage teachers to become more qualified and agree to working in different environments depending on need. States have developed a variety of incentives to encourage this. These include tuition benefits, loan forgiveness programs, and housing assistance, to encourage people to enter the profession in general, to better their qualifications, or to work in particular school settings. NCLB required that Illinois stop the use of unqualified teachers and in place offered more training so that teachers could come back under NCLB guidelines. After this, employment of not-fully certified teachers was much less prevalent even in the schools with highest poverty and numbers of minorities, where not-fully certified teachers are most seen.\n\nOn January 8, 2002, George W. Bush signed the No Child Left Behind Act. According to Arne Duncan, U.S. Secretary of Education, it has created an artificial goal of proficiency that actually encouraged states to lower their standards to make it easier for students to meet goals and bring the school to meet AYP. Duncan also believes that this kind of system narrows curriculum and mislabels schools as failing, even though they may be demonstrating academic growth in other ways other than state tests. Over the years since NCLB has been in place, 44 states have made strides in raising their standards but are now having to explain why their schools are \"failing\". To fix this, the secretary of state believes the law needs to be less prescriptive and allow school districts to create their own improvement plans unique to their needs. In 2015, the Obama administration offered states flexibility from NCLB in exchange for their own fair and flexible plans to raise standards. So far, 42 states have shown interest in this system and are currently working with the Department of Education. Congress's efforts to reauthorize NCLB ultimately led in 2015 to the Every Student Succeeds Act, which replaced it, modifying but not replacing provisions related to standardized testing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24199350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24199350", "title": "Aftermath: The Remnants of War", "text": "Aftermath: The Remnants of War\n\nAftermath: The Remnants of War is a 2001 Canadian documentary film directed by Daniel Sekulich about the painful legacy of war, based on the Lionel Gelber Prize winning book of the same name by Donovan Webster. The film is co-written by Sekulich and Allen Abel, and co-produced by the National Film Board of Canada and Aftermath Pictures.\n\nBased on the award-winning book by Donovan Webster, this film exposes the human remains, environmental damage, and psychological trauma of military conflict which remain after the fighting stops and the troops go home. The program features interviews with individuals involved with the reparation of the residual devastation - people who destroy unexploded munitions at Verdun and in Sarajevo, recover and identify skeletons of battlefield casualties at Stalingrad, and help victims of Agent Orange in the Aluoi Valley, Vietnam. Archival footage sets each segment in its historical context.\n\nFilmed on location in Russia, France, Bosnia and Vietnam, the documentary features personal accounts of individuals involved in the cleanup of war: from de-miners, psychologists working with distraught soldiers, a treasure hunter turned archeologist in Stalingrad, and scientists and doctors struggling with the contamination of dioxin used in the Vietnam War.\n\n\"Aftermath: The Remnants of War\" garnered multiple awards at film festivals around the world, including a Gold Medal for Best International Affairs Documentary at the New York Festivals Television Competition and a Gold Special Jury Award at the WorldFest-Houston International Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "34851355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34851355", "title": "Anarchism and the Occupy movement", "text": "Anarchism and the Occupy movement\n\nMany commentators have stated that the Occupy Wall Street movement has roots in the philosophy of anarchism. David Graeber, an early organizer of the movement, is a self-proclaimed anarchist. Graeber, writing for \"The Guardian\", has argued that anarchist principles of direct action, direct democracy and rejection of existing political institutions are the foundations of the Occupy Wall Street movement. Graber associated Occupy with anarchism ideology because of Occupy’s refusal to make demands on the existing state. If Occupy had made demands, it would be reiterating the legitimacy of the people who made the demands. By refraining from making demands, Occupy is refusing to legitimize the existing political structure of the United States. Graeber also believes that radical segments of the civil rights movement, the anti-nuclear movement and the global justice movement have been based on the same principles.\n\nThai Jones, an anarchist writing for the Jewish-American weekly newspaper, \"The Forward\", asserted that the Occupy movement has demonstrated that the invigorating potential of anarchist political theory can be a feasible model of governance. According to Jones, contemporary anarchists involved in the Occupy Wall Street movement face the same dilemma as their early predecessors — whether to use violence.\n\nMichael Kazin, writing for \"The New Republic\", analyzed the composition of the Occupy Wall Street movement. He argued that Occupy members are different from political activists of the late 19th century and early 20th century counterparts, citing contemporary rejection of violent methods as the main difference. Kazin described the Occupy Wall Street anarchists as \"ultra-egalitarian, radically environmentalist, effortlessly multicultural and scrupulously non-violent\", describing them as the \"cyber-clever progeny of Henry David Thoreau and Emma Goldman.\" Social media has played a vital role in the Occupy movement and Kazin noted that instead of authoring essays or promoting feminism and free love, the Occupy Wall Street anarchists stream videos and arrange flash mobs.\n\nOccupy does not label itself as anarchist. However, John L. Hammond attributes three core Occupy beliefs and practices – horizontalism, autonomy, and defiance – as also being anarchist values. He also notes that Occupy’s emphasis on the experience of occupation aligns with the principles of libertarian anarchists. Horizontalism, meaning an equal distribution of power, is demonstrated in the Occupy movement through the creation of a direct democracy that eliminates hierarchy and representative structures. Occupy operates using mutualism and self-organization as its principles. The General Assemblies practice direct democracy using consensus to the extent of practicality. Outside of the General Assemblies, Occupy protestors have organized into decentralized groups. Occupy’s practice of horizontal organization rejects the legitimacy of the existing hierarchical political structure in the United States. By questioning institutions like the existing state Occupy is demonstrating both autonomy and defiance. Occupy demonstrates some of the values of anarchism, but Occupy does not identify as anarchist because of differences in ideology and motivations to act.\n\nIn November 2011, approximately 100 people participated in the \"Anarchist General Assembly\" and discussed ways to spread anarchist ideas and how to interact with police. The organizers of the assembly published a flier that read, \"This is a call to the anarchist and broader anti-authoritarian community to reconvene in assembly and continue to develop ourselves as members of a larger network here in Portland.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2418729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2418729", "title": "Animal Protection Party of Canada", "text": "Animal Protection Party of Canada\n\nThe Animal Protection Party of Canada is a minor registered political party in Canada that focuses on animal rights and environmentalism. It was formed in 2005 as the Animal Alliance Environment Voters Party of Canada by the merger of two organizations, the Animal Alliance of Canada and Environment Voters. Both parent organizations have been vocal in opposition to the seal hunt in Newfoundland and Labrador, fur farming, trapping, and bear hunting. The party is led by Liz White, a Toronto-based animal rights advocate.\n\nFederal laws restricting political advocacy by \"third parties\" (i.e., organizations not registered by Elections Canada as political parties) during election campaigns led to the formation of this party. Following a Supreme Court of Canada ruling that allowed political parties to be registered by only running a single candidate, animal rights activists formed the party. The AAEV party provides its members and candidates the opportunity to promote its views during election periods.\n\nThe party's role in most ridings is to endorse a major-party candidate who promotes positions favourable to its own. In the 2006 general election, AAEV's free-time political ads endorsed the New Democratic Party, counterbalanced by the statement that voters could also vote for AAEV party leader Liz White in Toronto Centre.\n\nCanadian electoral laws hinder misuse of this loophole by setting campaign spending limits for parties, proportional to the number of voters in the electoral districts where the party is running candidates. Because the AAEV was running only one candidate, it was permitted to spend $66,715.37, compared to the $18,225,260.74 limits granted to the major national parties. In 2008, the party ran four candidates. In 2011, it ran 7 candidates with one candidate in the Western Arctic riding. In 2015, the party ran 8 candidates, with one in Victoria, British Columbia.\n\nIn the 2008 general election, the AAEVPC fielded four candidates, all in Ontario:\n\nIn the 2011 general election, the AAEVPC fielded seven candidates: six in Ontario, one in the territories:\n\nIn the 2015 general election, the AAEVPC fielded eight candidates: seven in Ontario, one in British Columbia:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4584465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4584465", "title": "Catholic Action", "text": "Catholic Action\n\nCatholic Action was the name of many groups of lay Catholics who were attempting to encourage a Catholic influence on society.\n\nThey were especially active in the nineteenth century in historically Catholic countries that fell under anti-clerical regimes such as Spain, Italy, Bavaria, France, and Belgium. Adolf Hitler ordered the murder of Erich Klausener, head of a Catholic Action group in Nazi Germany, during the Night of the Long Knives.\nCatholic Action is not a political party, although in many times and places this distinction became blurred. Since World War II the concept has often been eclipsed by Christian Democrat parties that were organised to combat Communist parties and promote Catholic social justice principles in places such as Italy and West Germany.\n\nCatholic Action generally included various subgroups for youth, women, workers, etc. In the postwar period, the various national Catholic Action organizations for workers formed the World Movement of Christian Workers which remains highly active today as a voice within the Church and in society for working class Catholics.\n\nThe Catholic Action movement had its beginnings in the latter part of the 19th century as efforts to counteract a rise in anti-clerical sentiment, especially in Europe.\n\nA variety of diverse groups formed under the concept of Catholic Action. These would include: the Young Christian Workers, the Young Christian Students; the Cursillo movement, RENEW International; the Legion of Mary; Sodalities; the Christian Family Movement; various community organizing groups like COPS (Communities Organized for Public Service) in San Antonio, and Friendship House in Harlem, an early influence on Thomas Merton.\n\nAround 1912, as a curate in a parish in Laeken, on the outskirts of Brussels, Joseph Cardijn, who dedicated his ministry to aid the working class, founded for the young seamstresses a branch of the Needleworkers' Trade Union. \nIn 1919 he started the \"Young Trade Unionists\". In 1924, the name of the organization was changed to \"Jeunesse Ouvrière Chrétienne\", the Young Christian Workers. JOC grew rapidly throughout the world; its members were often known as \"Jocists\" (the movement was often called \"Jocism\"). By 1938, there were 500,000 members throughout Europe; in 1967, this had increased to 2,000,000 members in 69 countries.\n\nA fruit of the contemporary Catholic Action movement, the International Catholic Union of the Press UCIP was founded in Belgium in 1927. A year later the Organization Catholique Internationale du Cinéma ( OCIC) came into being in The Netherlands, and the Bureau Catholic International de Radiodiffusion (BCIR), in Germany. It became Unda in 1946. These professional Catholic lay associations, working in the world of the professional media, wanted to unite their efforts against the secularization of society. On the one hand, they were aware that the press and the new media of radio and cinema were contributing to secularization. On the other hand, they also believed that by engaging in the secular media, they could use them as a new means of evangelization. Efforts had to be made to evangelize the secular mass media, or at least to insert the values of the Gospel into them. As a result of the merger of the Catholic media organizations OCIC and Unda, a new organisation was founded in 2001 in Rome called SIGNIS. In 2014 the Vatican suggested that SIGNIS should also integrate the members of the former International Catholic Union of the Press (UCIP), which a few years earlier had lost its recognition by the Holy See as an official Catholic organization.\n\nThe National Civic Council is an Australian Catholic Action group formed in 1957 out of the Australian Catholic social studies movement under the leadership of B.A. Santamaria. Precursors to the NCC were active in the Australian Labor Party, but were expelled from the party by less conservative members during the 1955 Labor Split. The expelled members of the party went on to form the Australian Labor Party (Anti-Communist) and the subsequent Democratic Labor Party.\n\nIn Chile, Catholic Action was the name of a nationwide youth movement. Under the aegis of Saint Alberto Hurtado it was responsible for the founding of the Chilean Trade Union Association.\n\nAzione Cattolica is probably the most active Catholic Action group still around today. Catholic Action was particularly well suited to Italy where Catholic party political action was impractical, firstly under the Anti-Clerical Savoyard regime from 1870 until about 1910 and later under the Fascist regime which prohibited independent political parties.\n\nThe present association \"Azione Cattolica\" was founded in 1867 by Mario Fani and Giovanni Acquaderni with the name of \"Società della Gioventù Cattolica Italiana\" (Italian Catholic Youth Society), then reformed during the Mussolini regime when the association was structured into 4 sectors and was called Azione Cattolica.\n\nCatholic Action was organised in many other countries, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35012838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35012838", "title": "Cultural mulatto", "text": "Cultural mulatto\n\nThe cultural mulatto is a concept introduced by Trey Ellis in his 1989 essay, \"The New Black Aesthetic\". While the term \"mulatto\" typically refers to a person of mixed black and white ancestry, a cultural mulatto is defined by Ellis as a black person who is highly educated and usually a part of the middle or upper-middle class, and therefore assimilates easily into traditionally white environments. \n\nEllis writes, \"Just as a genetic mulatto is a black person of mixed parents who can often get along fine with his white grandparents, a cultural mulatto, educated by a multi-racial mix of cultures, can also navigate easily in the white world\" (235). Cultural mulattoes are skillful code-switchers and they may be equally comfortable around blacks as around whites. Members of the New Black Aesthetic are typically cultural mulattoes. Their ability for easy interaction with both blacks and whites is what ultimately allows cultural mulattoes opportunities for class and status upward mobility.\n\nExamples of cultural mulattoes offered by Ellis include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45300883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45300883", "title": "Epidemiology of measles", "text": "Epidemiology of measles\n\nMeasles is extremely contagious but infection results in lifelong immunity, so its continued circulation in a community depends on the generation of susceptible hosts by birth of children. In communities which generate insufficient new hosts the disease will die out. This concept was first recognized by Bartlett in 1957, who referred to the minimum number supporting measles as the critical community size (CCS). Analysis of outbreaks in island communities suggested that the CCS for measles is c. 250,000.\nIn 2011, the WHO estimated that there were about 158,000 deaths caused by measles. This is down from 630,000 deaths in 1990. In developed countries, death occurs in 1 to 2 cases out of every 1,000 (0.1% - 0.2%). Death from measles was reported in approximately 0.2% of the cases in the United States from 1985 through 1992. In populations with high levels of malnutrition and a lack of adequate healthcare, mortality can be as high as 10%. Increased immunization has led to an estimated 78% drop in measles deaths among UN member states.\nEven in countries where vaccination has been introduced, vaccination rates may remain low due to parents choosing not to have their children vaccinated. In Ireland, vaccination was introduced in 1985. There were 99,903 cases that year. Within two years, the number of cases had fallen to 201, but this fall was not sustained. Measles is a leading cause of vaccine-preventable childhood mortality. Worldwide, the fatality rate has been significantly reduced by a vaccination campaign led by partners in the Measles Initiative: the American Red Cross, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the United Nations Foundation, UNICEF and the WHO. Globally, measles fell 60% from an estimated 873,000 deaths in 1999 to 345,000 in 2005. Estimates for 2008 indicate deaths fell further to 164,000 globally, with 77% of the remaining measles deaths in 2008 occurring within the Southeast Asian region.\n\nIn 2006–07 there were 12,132 cases in 32 European countries: 85% occurred in five countries: Germany, Italy, Romania, Switzerland and the UK. 80% occurred in children and there were 7 deaths.\n\nFive out of six WHO regions have set goals to eliminate measles, and at the 63rd World Health Assembly in May 2010, delegates agreed a global target of a 95% reduction in measles mortality by 2015 from the level seen in 2000, as well as to move towards eventual eradication. However, no specific global target date for eradication has yet been agreed to as of May 2010.\n\nOn January 22, 2014, the World Health Organization and the Pan American Health Organization declared and certified Colombia free of the measles while becoming the first Latin American country to abolish the infection within its borders.\n\nIn Vietnam, in the measles epidemic in the beginning of 2014, as of April 19 there were 8,500 measles cases and 114 fatalities, and as of May 30 there were 21,639 measles cases and 142 fatalities.\n\nIn 2007, a large outbreak in Japan caused a number of universities and other institutions to close in an attempt to contain the disease.\n\nMany children in ultra-Orthodox Jewish communities were affected due to low vaccination coverage. As of 2008, the disease is endemic in the United Kingdom, with 1,217 cases diagnosed in 2008,\nand epidemics have been reported in Austria, Italy and Switzerland.\n\nOn February 19, 2009, 505 measles cases were reported in twelve provinces in northern Vietnam, with Hanoi accounting for 160 cases. A high rate of complications, including meningitis and encephalitis, has worried health workers, and the U.S. CDC recommended all travelers be immunized against measles.\n\nBeginning in April 2009 there was a large outbreak of measles in Bulgaria, with over 24,000 cases including 24 deaths. From Bulgaria, the strain was carried to Germany, Turkey, Greece, Macedonia, and other European countries.\n\nBeginning in September 2009, Johannesburg, South Africa reported about 48 cases of measles. Soon after the outbreak, the government ordered all children to be vaccinated. Vaccination programs were then initiated in all schools, and parents of young children were advised to have them vaccinated. Many people were not willing to have the vaccination done, as it was believed to be unsafe and ineffective. The Health Department assured the public that their program was indeed safe. Speculation arose as to whether or not new needles were being used. By mid-October, there were at least 940 recorded cases, and four deaths.\n\nIn early 2010, there was a serious outbreak of measles in the Philippines with 742 cases, leaving four unvaccinated children dead in the capital city of Manila.\n\nAs of May 2011, over 17,000 cases of measles have so far been reported from France between January 2008 and April 2011, including 2 deaths in 2010 and 6 deaths in 2011. Over 7,500 of these cases fell in the first three months of 2011, and Spain, Turkey, Macedonia, and Belgium have been among the other European countries reporting further smaller outbreaks. The French outbreak has been specifically linked to a further outbreak in Quebec in 2011, where 327 cases have been reported between January and June 1, 2011, and the European outbreaks in general have also been implicated in further small outbreaks in the USA, where 40 separate importations from the European region had been reported between January 1 and May 20.\n\nSome experts stated that the persistence of the disease in Europe could be a stumbling block to global eradication. It has proven difficult to vaccinate a sufficient number of children in Europe to eradicate the disease, because of opposition on philosophical or religious grounds, or fears of side-effects, or because some minority groups are hard to reach, or simply because parents forget to have their children vaccinated. Vaccination is not mandatory in some countries in Europe, in contrast to the United States and many Latin American countries, where children must be vaccinated before they enter school.\n\nIn March 2013, an epidemic was declared in Swansea, Wales, UK with 1,219 cases and 88 hospitalizations to date. A 25-year-old male had measles at the time of death and died from giant cell pneumonia caused by the disease. There have been growing concerns that the epidemic could spread to London and infect many more people due to poor MMR uptake, prompting the Department of Health to set up a mass vaccination campaign targeted at one million school children throughout England.\n\nIn late 2013, it was reported in the Philippines that 6,497 measles cases occurred which resulted in 23 deaths.\n\nIn 2014 many unvaccinated US citizens visiting the Philippines, and other countries, contracted measles, resulting in 288 cases being recorded in the United States in the first five months of 2014, a twenty-year high.\n\nIn January 2015, it was reported that over 70 people who had visited Disneyland or Disney California Adventure between Dec. 15 and Dec. 20 fell ill with measles, with 62 of them residing in California. The total number of cases included five people who had been fully vaccinated against the disease. Between the dates of January 1 and 28, 2015, most of the 84 people who were diagnosed with measles were either infected during their visit to Disneyland or by someone who visited the theme park.\n\nIn spring 2017, an outbreak occurred in Minnesota. As of June 16, 78 total cases had been confirmed, 71 of which were unvaccinated.\n\nIndigenous measles was declared to have been eliminated in North, Central, and South America; the last endemic case in the region was reported on November 12, 2002, with only northern Argentina and rural Canada, particularly in Ontario, Quebec, and Alberta, having minor endemic status. Outbreaks are still occurring, however, following importations of measles viruses from other world regions. In June 2006, an outbreak in Boston resulted after a resident became infected in India.\n\nThe Canadian government defines endemic measles as a situation where a chain of transmission continues uninterrupted for 12 months. By this standard, Canada has been free of endemic measles since 1998, but sporadic imported outbreaks have continued.\n\nSouthern regions of the province of Quebec witnessed a measles outbreak affecting 94 persons in the Spring and Summer of 2007. The outbreak lasted 25 weeks, included more than one strain of the measles virus and had 12-17 generations of spread.\n\nIn 2008, Canada had more than 30 confirmed cases in Ontario in 2008, with more than half reported in Toronto.\n\nIn 2011, Quebec experienced the largest outbreak of measles in the Americas since 2002. The outbreak began on 8 January with unvaccinated individuals acquiring the disease whilst traveling to France, a country with high measles incidence, and returning home to Quebec. Public health officials responded to the outbreak by launching a mass vaccination campaign, and on 22 December, the outbreak ended with a total of 776 cases having occurred. 615 cases (79%) had not been vaccinated, including 29 infants too young to receive the vaccine. 11% of cases required hospitalization, and complications occurred in 64 cases (8%), with pneumonia being the most common complication observed (3% of cases). No deaths were reported.\n\nA measles outbreak was declared on 8 March 2014 in regions east of Vancouver in the Fraser Valley area where vaccination rates were known to be low in school and religious groups. A total of 228 cases were confirmed. On March 24, Fraser Health Authority said the outbreak have been contained and confined to the original community.\n\nIndigenous measles were declared to have been eliminated in North, Central, and South America; the last endemic case in the region was reported on November 12, 2002. Outbreaks are still occurring, however, following importations of measles viruses from other world regions. In June 2006, an outbreak in Boston resulted after a resident became infected in India, and in October 2007, a Michigan girl who had been vaccinated contracted the disease overseas. \n\nIn 1991 in the Philadelphia region, thousands of children were sick with measles. The epicenter of this outbreak was traced to the Faith Tabernacle Congregation, a Faith Healing church that actively discouraged parishioners from vaccinating their children. A Court Order was obtained to forcibly treat and vaccinate children whose parents would not agree to seeking medical care. Nine children eventually died as a result of this outbreak.\nBetween January 1 and April 25, 2008, a total of 64 confirmed measles cases were preliminarily reported in the United States to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the most reported by this date since 2001, and the highest total number in six years. Of the 64 cases, 54 were associated with importation of measles from other countries into the United States, and 63 of the 64 patients were unvaccinated or had unknown or undocumented vaccination status. By July 9, 2008, a total of 127 cases were reported in 15 states, making it the largest US outbreak since 1997 (when 138 cases were reported). Most of the cases were acquired outside of the United States and afflicted individuals who had not been vaccinated.\n\nIn early 2008 there was an outbreak of measles in San Diego, California. The outbreak is traced to an unvaccinated 7-year-old child who went on a family trip to Europe. The CDC refers to this as an \"import-associated outbreak\". The final diagnosis included 11 additional cases of measles in unvaccinated children in San Diego. All of the confirmed patients were not vaccinated because they were younger than 1, the minimum age for measles inoculation, or because their parents declined to have them vaccinated. The typical vaccine would be the MMR vaccine. The incident drew attention to the controversy over MMR vaccination. This was San Diego County's first measles outbreak since 1991.\n\nIn February 2008 there was an outbreak of measles in Pima County, Arizona. There were 13 laboratory confirmed and 4 probable measles cases, though 22 cases were previously reported. The outbreak started with a visitor from Switzerland and resulted in a public health emergency declaration by Pima County. The last confirmed Pima County case occurred in 1994, and the last outbreak occurred in 1991.\n\nBy July 9, 2008, a total of 127 cases were reported in 15 states (including 22 in Arizona), making it the largest U.S. outbreak since 1997 (when 138 cases were reported). Most of the cases were acquired outside of the United States and afflicted individuals who had not been vaccinated. By July 30, 2008, the number of cases had grown to 131. Of these, about half involved children whose parents rejected vaccination. The 131 cases occurred in seven different outbreaks. There were no deaths, and 15 hospitalizations. Eleven of the cases had received at least one dose of measles vaccine. Children who were unvaccinated or whose vaccination status was unknown accounted for 122 cases. Some of these were under the age when vaccination is recommended, but in 63 cases, the vaccinations had been refused for religious or philosophical reasons.\n\nOn May 24, 2011, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that the United States has had 118 measles cases so far this year. The 118 cases were reported by 23 states and New York City between Jan 1 and May 20. Of the 118 cases, 105 (89%) were associated with cases abroad and 105 (89%) of the 118 patients had not been vaccinated.\n\nIn 2013, at least 20 members of the Eagle Mountain International Church in North Texas were diagnosed with measles after a few members of the congregation traveled abroad on a mission trip and contracted the disease. The church is part of Kenneth Copeland Ministries, which used to advocate abstaining from vaccinations and immunizations for fear they cause autism. The church has sponsored several vaccination drives. Senior Pastor Terri Pearsons, who had previously expressed concerns about potential links between the measles vaccine and autism, was encouraging parishioners to get vaccinated. However, she said she still has some concerns about vaccines, particularly for young children with a family history of autism, and where several immunizations are given at the same time. William Schaffner, professor at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, described the pastor as \"misinformed\" and said that young children are among the most vulnerable to measles.\n\nIn February and March 2014, 20 confirmed cases appeared in New York City.\nIn December 2014, a measles outbreak began at Disneyland in Southern California. At least 173 people have become infected with measles in 21 states, as of May 2015. Health officials say 39 cases have been traced to direct exposure at the park, with 117 infections linked by primary or secondary exposure. Among the 110 California patients, 49 (45%) were unvaccinated; five (5%) had 1 dose of measles-containing vaccine, seven (6%) had 2 doses, one (1%) had 3 doses, 47 (43%) had unknown or undocumented vaccination status, and one (1%) had immunoglobulin G seropositivity documented, which indicates prior vaccination or measles infection at an undetermined time. 12 of the unvaccinated patients were infants too young to be vaccinated. Medical professionals, such as David Gorski, have criticized physicians and pediatricians in the area who do not adhere to the CDC's recommended vaccination schedule or discourage vaccination, among them Bob Sears and Jay Gordon for reducing vaccination rates and thus weakening herd immunity, and creating a situation in which an outbreak was more likely. California passed a mandatory vaccination law in June.\n\nIn Spring 2015, a death of an immune-suppressed woman in Washington State caused by measles was diagnosed after autopsy. This was the first U.S. measles death since 2003.\n\nIn spring 2017, a measles outbreak occurred in Minnesota. As of June 16, 78 cases of measles had been confirmed in the state, 71 were unvaccinated and 65 were Somali-Americans. The outbreak has been attributed to low vaccination rates among Somali-American children, which can be traced back to 2008, when Somali parents expressed concerns about disproportionately high numbers of Somali preschoolers in special education classes who were receiving services for autism spectrum disorder. Around this time, Andrew Wakefield visited Minneapolis, teaming up with vaccine-skeptical groups to raise concerns about the MMR vaccine. Multiple studies have shown no connection between the MMR vaccine and autism.\n\nThe first half of 2018 saw 1613 cases in addition to the 413 cases reported in 2017, according to the Pan American Health Organization epidemiological alerts and updates.\n\nApproximately 1000 cases of the disease were reported in Israel between August 2007 and May 2008 (in sharp contrast to just some dozen cases the year before). Many children in ultra-Orthodox Jewish communities were affected due to low vaccination coverage.\n\nIn 2007, a large measles outbreak in Japan caused a number of universities and other institutions to close in an attempt to contain the disease.\n\nIn 2014 the Philippines experienced a large ongoing measles outbreak. According to the World Health Organization there were 57,564 suspected cases of measles, including 21,403 confirmed cases, 110 measles deaths, were reported in the Philippines from January 1 through December 20, 2014. Most of the cases were among unvaccinated people.\n\nIn 2008, Europe faced a measles epidemic, including large outbreaks in Austria, Italy, and Switzerland. In 2010, 30,367 cases were reported from across the 32 European countries reporting to euvac.net (72% of which were reported from Bulgaria, and 17% from France), and 21 measles-related deaths (17 in Bulgaria, 2 in France, and 1 in Romania). The World Health Organization reported over 26,000 measles cases in 36 European countries from January to October 2011, with 83% occurring in western Europe. There were nine deaths, of which six were French, and 7,288 hospitalizations.\nIn February 2014, 26 cases in Barcelona, Spain.\n\nUkraine has had a multiple large outbreaks of measles. In 2001-2002, there were around 25,000 cases and 14 deaths reported. In 2006 with 44,534 reported cases with at least 2 deaths. 13,517 cases were reported in 2012.\n\nGermany has faced repeated outbreaks in the 21st century. 6,037 cases were reported in 2001 with at least two deaths. More than 1,500 cases were reported in 2006. 1,600 cases were reported in an outbreak in 2013. An outbreak in 2015 had more than 1,700 cases had been reported by May 11 with one death.\n\nIn September 2008 an outbreak occurred among anthroposophists' children in the cities of The Hague and Utrecht. Some 90 infections of unvaccinated children were recorded by the Dutch National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM) by September 29. It was expected the outbreak would spread to the region of the Veluwe, locally known as a \"bijbelgordel\" (\"Bible Belt\") with a large population of unvaccinated children on religious grounds.\n\nIn June 2013, another outbreak occurred in the Bible Belt in The Netherlands. According to newspaper \"Algemeen Dagblad\", there were 161 infections, of which 5 infected victims were hospitalized critically ill. 2 of the victims had meningitis, two others had pneumonia and from one of them, the complications are still unknown.\n\nAfter the MMR vaccine controversy began, the MMR vaccination compliance dropped sharply in the United Kingdom, from 92% in 1996 to 84% in 2002. In some parts of London, it was as low as 61% in 2003, far below the rate needed to avoid an epidemic of measles. By 2006 coverage for MMR in the UK at 24 months was 85%, lower than the about 94% coverage for other vaccines.\n\nAfter vaccination rates dropped, the incidence of two of the three diseases increased greatly in the UK. In 1998 there were 56 confirmed cases of measles in the UK; in 2006 there were 449 in the first five months of the year, with the first death since 1992. Cases occurred in inadequately vaccinated children. The age group affected was too old to have received the routine MMR immunizations around the time the paper by Wakefield \"et al.\" was published, and too young to have contracted the natural disease as a child, and thus to achieve a herd immunity effect. With the decline in infection that followed the introduction of the MMR vaccine, these individuals had not been exposed to the disease, but still had no immunity, either natural or vaccine induced. Therefore, as immunization rates declined following the controversy and the disease re-emerged, they were susceptible to infection. Measles cases continued in 2006, at incidence rates 13 times greater than 1998 levels. Two children were severely and permanently injured by measles encephalitis despite undergoing kidney transplantation in London. Disease outbreaks also caused casualties in nearby countries including Ireland.\n\nIn 2008, for the first time in 14 years, measles was declared endemic in the UK, meaning that the disease was sustained within the population. This was caused by the preceding decade's low MMR vaccination rates, which created a population of susceptible children who could spread the disease. In May 2008, a British 17-year-old with an underlying immunodeficiency died of measles.\n\nAn outbreak centered on the Swansea area of Wales started in November 2012; as of 22 April there have been 886 cases.\n\n1,500 cases and three deaths were reported in the Irish outbreak of 2000, which occurred as a direct result of decreased vaccination rates following the MMR scare.\n\nIn 2017, there were 4,991 cases and four deaths, representing almost six-times the number of cases in 2016. The number of cases for 2013 through 2016 were 2211, 1674, 251 and 844.\n\nBeginning in April 2009 there was a large outbreak of measles in Bulgaria, with 23,791 cases, including 24 deaths, reported up to 28 July 2010. From Bulgaria, the strain was carried to Germany, Turkey, Greece, Macedonia, and other European countries.\n\nBetween January 2008 and May 2012, 22,000 measles cases were reported in France. 5,000 patients were hospitalised including 1,023 with severe pneumonia, 27 with encephalitis and/or myelitis, and 10 died. An awareness campaign about MMR vaccination was launched.\n\nMost recent reported cases of measles in Portugal are originally imported from other European countries (United Kingdom, France and Romania), Africa (Angola, South African and Ethiopia) and Asia (China). Since 2004, Portugal reported 22 confirmed cases of measles. Virus isolates from 2005 and 2008 outbreaks belong the genotype D4. Vaccination coverage in Portugal is ≥95% (since 2006) but pockets of reduced immunization coverage (85-94%) still persist in the population.\n\nFourteen cases have been reported in multiple Australian and New Zealand cities including Melbourne and Auckland in the period between December 7, 2013 and January 3, 2014. The outbreak is believed to have begun at the 2013 World Supremacy Battlegrounds dance festival held in Sydney, Australia.\n\nTen cases were reported in Christchurch in July 2009.\n\nAn outbreak between 25 May 2011 and 24 July 2012 in the Auckland region had 489 confirmed or probable cases of measles, 82 of which required hospitalisation.<ref name=\"Auckland Measles 2011/2012\"></ref> The outbreak was started with an unimmunised child becoming infected on a family trip to England, then developing measles back in Auckland.\n\nIn June and July 2014, 124 confirmed cases of measles were reported in Hamilton. Eighty percent of persons infected were aged between 10 and 20, and all but four were not immunised. Most of those infected were linked with Fraser High School in the city's west, resulting in the school cancelling all school trips and cultural and sporting events.\n"}
{"id": "52651006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52651006", "title": "Erf (law)", "text": "Erf (law)\n\nIn real estate, an erf (pl. erven) is the legal term used in Namibia, South Africa and Swaziland to describe a piece of land registered in a deeds registry as an erf, lot, plot or stand. The term is of Afrikaans origin.\n\nSection 102 of the South African Deeds Registries Act, 1937 provides the following definition: \nSection 1 of the Namibian Deeds Registries Act, 2015 (Act No. 14 of 2015) gives an identical definition.\n"}
{"id": "757840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=757840", "title": "Estate (land)", "text": "Estate (land)\n\nHistorically, an estate comprises the houses, outbuildings, supporting farmland, and woods that surround the gardens and grounds of a very large property, such as a country house or mansion. It is the modern term for a manor, but lacks a manor's now-abolished jurisdictional authority. It is an \"estate\" because the profits from its produce and rents are sufficient to support the household in the house at its center, formerly known as the manor house. Thus, \"the estate\" may refer to all other cottages and villages in the same ownership as the mansion itself, covering more than one former manor. Examples of such great estates are Woburn Abbey in Bedfordshire, England, and Blenheim Palace, in Oxfordshire, England, built to replace the former manor house of Woodstock.\n\n\"Estate\", with its \"stately home\" connotations, has been a natural candidate for inflationary usage during the 20th century. The term \"estate properly\" alludes to estates comprising several farms, and is not well used to describe a single farm.\n\nMore generally and usually in modern times, an estate is any large packet of land in single ownership: see\n\n\nIn the United States: Long Island, Westchester County, Bar Harbor on Mount Desert Island, and other affluent East Coast enclaves; the San Francisco Bay Area, early Beverly Hills, California, Montecito, California and other affluent West Coast enclaves are estates; all had strong traditions of large agricultural, grazing, and productive estates modeled on those in Europe. However, by the late 1940s and early 1950s, many had been demolished and subdivided, in some cases resulting in suburban villages named for the former owners, as in Baxter Estates, New York.\n\nToday large houses on at least several acres are often referred to as \"estates\", in a contemporary updating of the word's usage. In some real estate ventures however, the term's application is stretched, as in Jamaica Estates, Queens and others.\n\nTraditional American estates include:\n\nIn American English, the above connotation is the primary meaning of the word \"estate\" (when it is not prefaced by the word \"real\"). That is why the British English terms \"trading estates\" and \"industrial estates\" sound like oxymorons to Americans, as few wealthy persons would deliberately choose to live next to factories.\n\n"}
{"id": "47867945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47867945", "title": "Fanny Balbuk", "text": "Fanny Balbuk\n\nFanny Balbuk (1840-1907) was a prominent Noongar Whadjuk woman who lived in Perth, Western Australia during the early years of the Swan River Colony. Fanny Balbuk (sometimes recorded as 'Yooreel') was born on Matagarup (Heirisson Island) in the Derbal Yaragan (Swan River) and her boodja (country) included the swamps and wetland in the area currently occupied by the Perth Railway Station and Perth Cultural Centre. She is remembered for her fierce commitment to land rights, and her reactions to the buildings, fences and homes which quickly replaced her boodja (land) as the Swan River Colony expanded at the cost of Noongar peoples' land, language and lives.\n\nFanny Balbuk was born to Joojeebal (Doodyep) and Coondenung on Matagarup in 1840. Her father Coondenung was an accomplished hunter and her mother Joojeebal was known for \"cheeky\" sense of humour.\n\nFanny Balbuk was born near the causeway on Noongar Whadjuk country and would collect Gilgies and vegetables from the swampy areas around Perth. She was a descendant of Yellagonga and her traditional country covers the Perth CBD area. Balbuk was well known among the colonists who had grown up around her, Balbuk at a young age had travelled around to places like Northam ,Moore River and Dandaragan and attended a friendship ceremony where she was given the name Yooreel at Moore river ,she was remembered for her unwavering commitment to maintaining her land rights in the earliest days of the Frontier Wars in Western Australia. Balbuk would walk the track between her birth site and the Railway Station, regardless of any new obstacles, buildings or fences which would spring up in her path as the colony grew. Daisy Bates herself wrote \"one of her favourite annoyances was to stand at the gates of Government House, reviling all who dwelt within, in that the stone gates guarded by a sentry enclosed her grandmother's burial ground.\"\n\nNoongar Elder Noel Nannup tells a similar story: \"That was her songline, her dreaming. She just kept going and didn’t take any notice of the new city going up. That’s a story of defiance and determination.\"\n\nFanny Balbuk died in 1907 leaving no descendants. \n\n"}
{"id": "52351174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52351174", "title": "Football for Peace", "text": "Football for Peace\n\nFootball for Peace is a non-governmental organisation (NGO) with its headquarters in London and supported by the United Nations Office on Sport for Development and Peace. It was co-founded internationally in 2013 by English-born Pakistani footballer Kashif Siddiqi and Chilean FIFA legend Elias Figueroa.\n\nOriginally started by Figueroa in 2006 as a campaign known as Futbol Por la Paz in South America. Siddiqi became the co-founder of Football for Peace Global in 2013 and in the same year, the concept made the transition from \"campaign\" to implementing NGO status with its international incorporation. The initiative was based on what had been achieved in the Americas, and brought to Europe, Asia, the Middle East, Africa and the Far East.\n\nIn 2015, Football for Peace Global created a peace process which is inclusive of peace matches, legacy projects known as \"City for Peace\" and sports diplomacy toolkits influencing social change. The process was intended to focus on community integration, reducing tensions between different groups and creating dialogue between nations.\n\nFootball for Peace hosted Joko Widodo, 7th president of Indonesia in East London to showcase the peace process on 20 April 2016. He was accompanied by the British government officials where they met 60 youngsters from Newham, London and three Football for Peace ambassadors from Birmingham, who participated in the day-long workshop at Chobham Academy, Newham.\n\nAt the event, the NGO showcased educational football diplomacy toolkits which included youth leadership programs in bringing together youths from different backgrounds, religions and ethnicities.\n\nIn October 2016, co-founder of Football for Peace, Kashif Siddiqi was invited to meet Pope Francis and launch the first \"Sport at the service of Humanity\" at a press conference, which was organised by the Pontifical Council for Culture under the leadership of Cardinal Gianfranco Ravasi at the Vatican and welcomed the presence of faith leaders. Siddiqi spoke on the Global Peace Process and the role sport has to unite.\n\nOn 8 September 2015, the first international peace match was hosted with the Royal Navy in bringing together Great Britain and Afghanistan. It marked the end of war against the Taliban group in Afghanistan and promoted reconciliation between the nations. It was a five aside peace match, which involved members of the Afghanistan national team and Team Great Britain playing together in the same team against a Footballers for Peace side at the old Royal Naval college in London Greenwich.\n\nThe unified Afghanistan and Great Britain was led by former Premier League manager Harry Redknapp, who defeated the Footballers for Peace side in front of a crowd, which included Prince Ali bin al-Hussein of Jordan.\n\nIn December 2015, HRH Prince William, The Duke of Cambridge and Mr Wilfried Lemke The United Nations Secretary-General's Special Adviser on Sport for Development and Peace attended Birmingham for peace project and recognised the young peace ambassadors in the city. The project was based in Birmingham's Saltley Academy and was intended to bring young children from different faith and cultural backgrounds together after Operation Trojan Horse in 2014.\n\nIn January 2016, a women's empowerment program was launched in Kozhikode, a coastal city in the south Indian state of Kerala with Brazilian football legend Ronaldinho Gaucho announced an ambassador. He said, \"Football has the power to unite the people. It has given me an opportunity and taught me universal values of Friendship and Unity. I am supporting the work carried by Football for Peace Global and proud to be the Guest of Honour of 2016 Sait Nagjee Trophy tournament and becoming a footballer for peace\".\n\nFootball for Peace worked with Sait Nagjee Trophy Tournament, which is one of the most prestigious tournaments held in Kozhikode. It was the first edition of the tournament in 21 years and the 2016 edition saw clubs from Ukraine, Germany, Brazil, England and Republic of Ireland take part, along with the Argentina U23 side.\n\nFC Dnipro Reserves won the tournament, while Atlético Paranaense Reserves finished as the runners-up in a tournament that was held between 5 and 21 February 2016.\n\nWorking with the 2016 Sait Nagjee Trophy Tournament and Kozhikode District Football Association, the organisations cooperated to involve teams from differing nations in tournaments.\n\nAfter the tournament, Football for Peace delivered a legacy programme dedicated to the female youth of different areas in Kerala, which was intended to allow them to promote empowerment, cultural exchange and peace between various communities.\n\nThe Football for Peace organisation is based on three main structures: the Executive Board, the Steering Committee, the Footballers for Peace Council, the NGO is directed by the three structures and governed by Hogan Lovells, a multinational law firm co-headquartered in London and Washington, D.C.\n"}
{"id": "54284257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54284257", "title": "Free Democrats (Armenia)", "text": "Free Democrats (Armenia)\n\nFree Democrats (Armenian: Ազատ դեմոկրատներ, \"Azat demokratner\") is an Armenian liberal, Pro-European party. It was founded in 2011 by Khachatur Kokobelyan. In 2017 Armenian parliamentary election it failed to meet the threshold of 5%. Khachatur Kokobelyan was the first on party list, Hrant Bagratyan (former Prime Minister of Armenia) was the second and Prime minister candidate of party.\n"}
{"id": "5437943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5437943", "title": "Grantism", "text": "Grantism\n\nGrantism became a byword by his political opponents and \"Lost Cause\" supporters, directed at President Ulysses S. Grant for political incompetence, corruption and fraud during his administration in the 1870s. The 1869–1877 presidency of Ulysses S. Grant was marred by many scandals and fraudulent activities associated with persons within his administration, including his cabinet, that was in continual transition, divided by the forces of political corruption and reform. Among them were: Black Friday, corruption in the Department of the Interior, the Sanborn incident, and the Whiskey Ring. (The Crédit Mobilier scandal, although exposed during his tenure, is not considered a Grant scandal.) Some historians defend Grant noting he was the first President to establish the Civil Service Commission, had reformers on his Cabinet, and he ended the corrupt moiety system of privateer tax collectors profiteering by taking a percentage of delinquent taxes. His enemies wanted to undermine the moral integrity of his administration and for his enforcement of African American civil rights during Reconstruction.\n\nGrant, ever trusting of associates, was himself influenced by both forces. The standards in many of his appointments were low, and charges of corruption were widespread. Although not directly involved with these scandals, the president's associations with people of questionable character and his reliance on cronyism, nepotism, and political patronage gave rise to accusations of \"Grantism\". Historians agree that corruption in the Grant administration was due to Grant's unqualified appointments of close friends and family, and remain perplexed why he protected Orville E. Babcock his personal secretary.\n\nThe term \"Grantism\" was originally coined by fellow Republican Senator Charles Sumner in a speech on May 31, 1872, a Presidential election year. It was used by Sumner to differentiate the Republican Party from Grant. The two men had been political enemies ever since Sumner's refusal to annex Santo Domingo to the United States. Sumner accused Grant of political patronage, nepotism, and being an autocrat like Julius Caesar.\n\nSumner charged that Grant had hindered African American national sovereignty rights in the Caribbean with the annexation proposal of Santo Domingo. Sumner was also angry that Grant used his personal secretary to establish international relations with Santo Domingo, rather than acting through the State Department and Congress. Sumner summed up Grantism as a despotic government of \"one man and his personal will\". The lengthy speech was used as the political platform for the Liberal Republican Party and launched the political career of Horace Greeley as the party's presidential candidate in 1872.\n\nHistorian Louis Arthur Coolidge noted that although Grant had critics, including Sumner, concerning presidential patronage, he was the first president to advocate and sign into law civil service reform legislation on March 4, 1871. Grant said that the \"elevation and purification of civil service of the government will be hailed with approval by the whole people of the United States\". The historians H. Wayne Morgan and Ari Hoogenboom say that Grant's presidential reputation for corruption has been exaggerated. Grant placed leading reformer George William Curtis as head of the civil service commission set up to establish regulations, in order to ensure the best person qualified would hold office. In addition to signing the civil service reform, Grant limited and finally abolished the moiety system in which private citizens contracted as Treasury revenue agents and received a percentage of delinquent taxes assessed and collected.\n\nThe Liberal Republicans defined \"corruption in government\" to mean Grantism from 1873-1875. The Liberal Republicans ceased to exist after the reforming Democratic Party assumed a majority in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1875-1881. After assuming control of the House, the Democrats launched a series of corruption investigations into the Grant Administration from 1875-1876. Today, \"Grantism\" is defined as any political corruption and greed in government. During Grant's presidency, many of his associates took part in price skimming and tax evasion. \"Grantism\" also refers to big business undermining control of local and national government.\n"}
{"id": "13388093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13388093", "title": "Green Berets (Bosnian paramilitary)", "text": "Green Berets (Bosnian paramilitary)\n\nZelene beretke (English, \"Green Berets\") was a paramilitary organization founded in Sarajevo in early 1992. They were founded by demobilized soldiers and conscripts from the Yugoslav National Army (JNA) who were mostly ethnic Bosniaks and supporters of Bosnian nationalism. They were integrated into a newly founded Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second half of 1992. The Green Berets as a gear of choice and name was selected both as a reference to United States Army Special Forces (although no actual relation existed) and as a common colour brand of the predominant ethnic group that composed the unit, namely Bosniaks. Bosnian Green Berets were mostly active during the war in the early part of 1992 in northern and central Bosnia.\n\n"}
{"id": "651466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=651466", "title": "Grupo Gay da Bahia", "text": "Grupo Gay da Bahia\n\nThe Grupo Gay da Bahia or simply GGB (, \"Gay Group of Bahia\", ) is the oldest association for the defense of the human rights for homosexuals functioning in Brazil. Founded in 1980 by Luiz Mott, in the city of Salvador, Bahia, the GGB was registered as a non-profit organization in 1983, and was declared a public service organization of the city of Salvador in 1987. It is a member of the International Lesbian and Gay Association, it forms part of the staff of the International Lesbian and Gay Human Rights Commission, the National Association of Black and White Men Together, and it is a \"twin\" of the RFSL of Stockholm.\n\nSince 1989, it has been a member of the Ministry of Heath's National Commission to Control AIDS, and since 1995 it has been one of the coordinators of the Secretariat of Human Rights of the Brazilian Association of Gays, Lesbians and Transvestites. The GGB was directly responsible for the foundation of several groups in defense of the human rights of homosexuals in other states of Brazil, and it provides a meeting space for the Lesbian Group of Bahia, the Association of Transvestites of Salvador, and the Anti-AIDS Center of Bahia, entities which are allied with yet independent from the GGB. In 1985, the GGB promoted the Third Encounter of the Brazilian Homosexual Movement and in 1994, the Sixth Encounter of Brazilian AIDS NGO's. The group publishes the GGB Bulletin two or three times a year, and has produced two dozen pamphlets and booklets about homosexuality and AIDS. Marcelo Cerqueira is the current president of the GGB.\n\nThe GGB has three objectives:\n\nThe Gay Group of Bahia is coordinated by six non-salaried Directors, (President, Vice-president, Treasurer, and three Coordinators), elected for three years. Any citizen can become a member of the GGB, independent of sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, race or ethnicity, religion, or political ideology: the GGB presently has 500 regular members. The GGB has its own center, offered by one of the directors, located at Rua Frei Vicente, 24 – Pelourinho. The space is made up of a three-storey house and holds a small library, an archive and an office with a telephone, fax and computer. It houses the largest archive of newspapers, magazines, and other printed material on the history of homosexuality and LGBT rights in Latin America. The center is open to the public during business hours.\n\nSince its foundation, the GGB has held two weekly meetings, every Wednesday and Friday, from 8 to 10 p.m. These meetings are coordinated by the group’s Board of Directors and are dedicated to the discussion of topics of interest to the gay community. Between 100 and 200 people visit the GGB’s center every week, making the number of visitors during the group's 32 years of existence exceed 40,000. The following subgroups form part of the GGB: the Quimbanda-Dudu Group of Black Gays of Bahia; the Gay Stamp Association of Brazil; the Brazilian Association of Parents and Friends of Homosexuals; the Center for Homosexual Studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23227391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23227391", "title": "Heavenly Twins (Sumner and Cunliffe)", "text": "Heavenly Twins (Sumner and Cunliffe)\n\nThe Heavenly Twins was the name assigned to two British delegates, the Judge Lord Sumner and the Banker Lord Cunliffe, during the 1919 Treaty of Versailles negotiations who were to set the terms of the peace to be imposed on Germany following the end of World War I. The two lords, together with the Prime Minister of Australia Billy Hughes, were responsible for presenting the British and British Dominions' case concerning the amount of compensatory payments, or war reparations, that were to be extracted from Germany.\n\nThere are mixed views on how the handle was coined. For Milo Keynes, the phrase was first used by the American diplomat Norman Davis. While for historian Antony Lentin, the phrase arose among younger members of the British delegation. There were three principal reasons: the \"astronomically\" large sums the Twins thought should be extracted from Germany, the \"beatific smile\" they would sometimes both adopt after rendering a judgement in situations where they had the upper hand in a debate, and the fact they were generally inseparable at Versailles—both at work and while enjoying the Paris nightlife. Additionally, Britons in 1919 would have been well aware of Sarah Grand's New Woman novel \"The Heavenly Twins\", a much talked-about bestseller in 1893.\n\nIn the months leading up to the Versailles Conference, economist John Maynard Keynes had been assigned the task of defining the British Treasuries' position on the amount of reparations Germans could be expected to pay. Keynes came up with a figure of £3,000 million, saying that in actuality receiving even a total of £2,000 million would be satisfactory. A power bloc composed of businessmen and representatives of the Dominions, supported by conservative politicians, felt this was far too low, but in the autumn of 1918 the Liberals had the upper hand in the governing coalition, and key ministers generally supported Keynes's view, which he had expected to be able to present at Versailles. The balance of power shifted after the December 1918 coupon election. While the liberal Lloyd George was retained as Prime Minister, voter pressure generated by a determined press campaigning had caused him to adopt a hard line attitude towards Germany. Most of the other Liberal MPs had lost their seats, including even the party leader H. H. Asquith.\n\nThe new government commissioned an alternative committee to re-assess Germany's ability to pay, its members including Lord Cunliffe. The committee estimated that the Germans would be able to pay the full cost of the war at £24,000 million. While this figure was approximately eight times the annual GDP of Germany before the war, Lord Cunliffe still went on to speculate that he may have underestimated Germany's ability to pay, saying that if someone suggested Germany could pay in the region of £50,000 million he \"would not disbelieve them\".\n\nIt was decided that the Heavenly Twins would present Great Britain's case at the Versailles conference, with Keynes and the Treasury formerly excluded from high level talks. Keynes still attended Versailles, as the Treasuries' chief representative, with a broad remit to decide financial aspects of the transition to peace—he would still try to influence the reparations settlement by lobbying the decision makers through back channels. Other British attendees would support Keynes' view, including Jan Smuts the prime minister of South Africa, Bonar Law the Chancellor, and Edwin Montagu the Secretary of State for India.\n\nLeaders from 32 allied nations were present at Versailles, but major decisions were made almost entirely by the Supreme War Council—briefly the \"Council of Ten\", later condensed to the \"Council of Four\". Referring to the Council of Four, Keynes asserted in his \"Economic Consequences of the Peace\" that if the world is to understand its destiny it had a great need of light: \nThe three principal decision makers were Britain's Lloyd George, France's Clemenceau and America's President Wilson—the fourth council member, Italy's Prime Minister Orlando, had little to do with settling the reparations question. The allies deliberately excluded Germany from having any representative on the high level talks, mindful of the skill of German diplomats such as Count Brockdorff-Rantzau and the success Talleyrand had enjoyed at the Congress of Vienna in exploiting division among the victorious allies to win a very favourable settlement after Napoleon's defeat. Decisions by the top level council were informed by expert commissions. The Heavenly Twins sat on the commission dedicated to reparations. This commission was itself divided into three sub committees. The first was to assess how much each allied power deserved and in what proportion the moneys would be divided, assuming Germany was unable to pay the full total amount assessed. The second subcommittee was to assess Germany's ability to pay and the third to agree on ways to guarantee payment.\n\nA key issue for the British in the first sub-committee was the American's insistence that compensation should only be awarded for damage to civilians and their property, not for military costs. Taken strictly this would mean by far the lion's share of compensation would go to the French—Britain and her Dominions had suffered huge losses to their armed forces but the fighting had been mainly on continental Europe, with British civilians scarcely hurt at all. Lord Sumner had presented the case that pensions paid to the widows of soldiers should count as civilian costs but the Americans did not agree and so the matter was escalated to the Council of Four, where President Wilson himself was said to reject Lord Sumners argument \"almost with contempt\". Lloyd George then took a hand and, after several days, he was able to convince Smuts of the merits of Sumners case and got Smuts to re-approach Wilson. The same argument Wilson had roundly rejected from Lord Summer was accepted when put by Smuts who, like the President, was a Christian, a scholar, and an idealist. Other American delegates had tried to persuade Wilson that it was not logical to count pensions as civilian damages but he replied \"Logic! Logic! I don't give a damn for logic. I am going to include pensions.\" This led to an increase in the share that was to be awarded to Britain, and later would result in the total claim on Germany being increased as well.\n\nLord Cunliffe chaired the subcommittee that was to determine Germany's capacity to pay. At first the Twins continued to insist Germany could pay £25bn but the US Treasury representatives Thomas W. Lamont and John Foster Dulles, supported by Norman Davis, refused to hear of this and The Twins reduced their recommended figure to £8bn. The leading French representative on the commission, Louis Loucheur, had told Davis off the record that he personally doubted the Germans could afford anywhere near this amount, but that he could not publicly advocate anything less than Lord Cunliff's figure. The Americans still opposed the revised amount and, after an escalation to the Council of Four, a secret alternative commission was set up consisting of Lamont, Loucheur and Montagu. This commission recommended the total amount to be extracted to be limited to about £5bn, but Lloyd George would not accept this unless Lord Cunliffe could be persuaded. In Robert Skidelsky's view, Lloyd George was afraid the Heavenly Twins would \"crucify\" him at Parliament if he agreed to too small a figure—the majority of MPs now being conservative with many also being businessmen. The Heavenly Twins, together with the French delegation and support from Lloyd George, continued to pressure the Americans who progressively gave ground from their initially strong position that only limited reparations should be imposed.\nKeynes tried to argue against the Heavenly Twins but they rebuffed him, mockingly referring to him as \"Herr von K\". For most of the conference, Lloyd George himself would only take limited notice of Keynes's plea for moderation. Towards the end however, the prime minister began to show signs that he had moved towards Keynes' view. Keynes came up with a plan that he argued would not only help Germany and other impoverished central European powers, but would also be good for the world economy as a whole. It involved the writing down of war debts which would have the effect of increasing international trade all round. Lloyd George agreed that it might be acceptable to the British electorate. America was against it however, the US then being the largest creditor and also as by this time President Wilson had started to believe in the merits of a harsh peace as a warning to future aggressors. At the end of the conference a compromise conceived by Dulles was agreed on where Germany accepted a theoretically unlimited \"war guilt\" obligation, but in practice the amount payable would be limited. Lloyd George worked to insure no firm figure was set by the conference's end, in the opinion of economic history writer Liaquat Ahamed his plan was to wait until the passions after the war had cooled, and then set about ensuring that a figure well below the Twin's recommendation was agreed on. By the close of the conference it was left open for the total to be far higher than Keynes's was happy about; the first firm figure recommended by the reparations committee in mid-1920 was set at $33 billion. He left before the very end and resigned from the Treasury, writing to Lloyd George: \"The battle is lost. I leave the Twins to gloat over the devastation of Europe.\" Keynes went on to write The Economic Consequences of the Peace, where he warned of the grave consequences of continuing to inflict excessive punishment on the German people. According to Ahamed and historian Carroll Quigley, reparations remained a key global issue for the two decades after the war, consuming statesmen's energies and attention more than any other issue.\n\nAccording to civil servant James Headlan-Morley, who was also present at Versailles, the Twins acted as \"the two bad men of the conference … always summoned when some particularly nefarious act has to be committed\". The Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Lord Cecil, referring to Lord Sumner, had said \"Some very able lawyers can be very cruel men\". For the British Prime Minister they were \"singularly able men\", whose help was crucial in securing an increased share of the reparations, but Lloyd George was also to record in his memoirs that he had felt trapped by the Twins into pushing for higher reparations than he would have preferred.\n\nIn the following decades, the French were often primarily blamed for the high payments imposed and Britain second though, due to the influence of the Heavenly Twins and the intrigues at Versailles rather than intent by her leaders. An exception was in Germany, where economic writer James Grabbe has stated that the common view in the 1930s was that Britain had desired to economically cripple Germany even as early as 1916, as expressed in this 1934 quote from German historian Oswald Spengler: \n\nIn 1916 the conservative coalition that acted as the Heavenly Twins power base had yet to form. Modern historians do not endorse Spengler's view, but they have questioned whether the twin's influence at Versailles was really decisive. Were they really formidable enough that the archetypal \"man of power\" Lloyd George, with his \"lightning ingenuity\" and uncanny psychological insight, would really have been helpless before them? Antony Lentin thinks not, suggesting that Lloyd George had secretly wanted high reparations to be imposed and had set the Twins up as scapegoats. According to Lentin \"He was never in thrall to the Twins: they were the obedient agents of his bidding.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29930118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29930118", "title": "Housing discrimination (United States)", "text": "Housing discrimination (United States)\n\nHousing discrimination is discrimination in which an individual or family is treated unequally when trying to buy, rent, lease, sell or finance a home based on certain characteristics, such as race, class, sex, religion, national origin, and familial status. This type of discrimination can lead to housing and spatial inequality and racial segregation which, in turn, can exacerbate wealth disparities between certain groups. In the United States, housing discrimination began after the abolition of slavery as part of a federally sponsored law, but has since been made illegal; however, studies show that housing discrimination still exists.\n\nAfter the end of the Civil War and the abolition of slavery, Jim Crow laws were introduced. These laws led to the discrimination of racial and ethnic minorities, especially African Americans. Fifteen state courts obeyed ordinances that enforced the denial of housing to African American and other minority groups in white-zoned areas. These ordinances were then made illegal in the 1917 Supreme Court case, \"Buchanan v. Warley\". Following this decision, however, nineteen states legally supported \"covenants,\" or agreements, between property owners to not rent or sell any homes to racial or ethnic minorities. Although the covenants, too, were made illegal in 1948, they were still allowed to be present in private deeds. It was not until the Fair Housing Act, enacted as Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, that the federal government made its first concrete steps to deem all types of housing discrimination unconstitutional. The act explicitly prohibits housing discrimination practices common at the time, including filtering information about a home's availability, racial steering, blockbusting, and redlining.\n\nThe Fair Housing Act was passed at the urging of President Lyndon B. Johnson. Congress passed the federal Fair Housing Act (codified at 42 U.S.C. 3601-3619, penalties for violation at 42 U.S.C. 3631), Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, only one week after the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.\n\nThe primary purpose of the Fair Housing Law of 1968 is to protect the buyer/renter of a dwelling from seller/landlord discrimination. Its primary prohibition makes it unlawful to refuse to sell, rent to, or negotiate with any person because of that person's inclusion in a protected class. The goal is a unitary housing market in which a person's background (as opposed to financial resources) does not arbitrarily restrict access. Calls for open housing were issued early in the twentieth century, but it was not until after World War II that concerted efforts to achieve it were undertaken.\n\nThe Fair Housing Act (Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968) introduced meaningful federal enforcement mechanisms. It outlawed:\n\n\nWhen the Fair Housing Act was first enacted, it prohibited discrimination only on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, and national origin. In 1988, disability and familial status (the presence or anticipated presence of children under 18 in a household) were added (further codified in the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990). In certain circumstances, the law allows limited exceptions for discrimination based on sex, religion, or familial status.\n\nThe United States Department of Housing and Urban Development is the federal executive department with the statutory authority to administer and enforce the Fair Housing Act. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development has delegated fair housing enforcement and compliance activities to HUD's Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO) and HUD's Office of General Counsel. FHEO is one of the United States' largest federal civil rights agencies. It has a staff of more than 600 people located in 54 offices around the United States. As of June 2014, the head of FHEO is Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity Gustavo Velasquez, whose appointment was confirmed on June 19, 2014.\n\nIndividuals who believe they have experienced housing discrimination can file a complaint with FHEO at no charge. FHEO funds and has working agreements with many state and local governmental agencies where \"substantially equivalent\" fair housing laws are in place. Under these agreements, FHEO refers complaints to the state or locality where the alleged incident occurred, and those agencies investigate and process the case instead of FHEO. This is known as FHEO's Fair Housing Assistance Program (or \"FHAP\").\n\nThere is also a network of private, non-profit fair housing advocacy organizations throughout the country. Some are funded by FHEO's Fair Housing Initiatives Program (or \"FHIP\"), and some operate with private donations or grants from other sources.\n\nVictims of housing discrimination need not go through HUD or any other governmental agency to pursue their rights, however. The Fair Housing Act confers jurisdiction to hear cases on federal district courts. The United States Department of Justice also has jurisdiction to file cases on behalf of the United States where there is a pattern and practice of discrimination or where HUD has found discrimination in a case and either party elects to go to federal court instead of continuing in the HUD administrative process.\n\nThe Fair Housing Act applies to landlords renting or leasing space in their primary residence only if the residence contains living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by three or more other families living independently of each other, such as an owner-occupied rooming house.\n\nThe Fair Housing Act has been strengthened since its adoption in 1968, but enforcement continues to be a concern among housing advocates. According to a 2010 evaluation of Analysis of Impediments (AI) reports done by the Government Accountability Office, enforcement is particularly inconsistent across local jurisdictions.\n\nThe federal government has passed other initiatives in addition to the Fair Housing Act of 1968. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974 and Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 helped with discrimination in mortgage lending and lenders' problems with credit needs. The Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 was passed to give the federal government the power to enforce the original Fair Housing Act to correct past problems with enforcement. The amendment established a system of administrative law judges to hear cases brought to them by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and to levy fines. Because of the relationship between housing discrimination cases and private agencies, the federal government passed the two initiatives. The Fair Housing Assistance Program of 1984 was passed to assist public agencies with processing complaints, and the Fair Housing Initiatives program of 1986 supported private and public fair housing agencies in their activities, such as auditing. Between 1990 and 2001 these two programs have resulted in over one thousand housing discrimination lawsuits and over $155 million in financial recovery. However, the lawsuits and financial recoveries generated from fair housing discrimination cases only scratches the surface of all instances of discrimination. Silverman and Patterson concluded that the underfunding and poor implementation of federal, state and local policies designed to address housing discrimination results in less than 1% of all instances of discrimination being addressed. Moreover, they found that local nonprofits and administrators responsible for enforcing fair housing laws had a tendency to downplay discrimination based on family status and race when designing implementation strategies.\n\nThe United States Census has shown that ethnic and racial minorities living in concentrated, high-poverty areas had actually increased following the passage of the Fair Housing Act from 1970 to 1990. African-Americans residing in these areas rose from 16 percent to 24 percent, and Hispanics living in these areas have increased from 10 percent to 15 percent. While this does not necessarily point to evidence of housing discrimination, it does mirror the phenomenon of white flight—the mass exodus during the 1970s and '80s of European-Americans from cities to the suburbs that left only one-fourth of the Anglo population still living in metropolitan areas. American sociologist Douglas Massey, in his essay, \"The New Geography of Inequality in Urban America\", argues that this new racial geography in the United States has laid the foundation for housing discrimination to occur in order to keep up the status quo.\n\nSociologists Vincent J. Roscigno, Diana L. Karafin, and Griff Tester have determined that the variety of actions that constitute housing discrimination can be classified as either exclusionary or nonexclusionary.\n\nExclusionary discrimination practices refer to \"actions and practices that exclude an individual or family from obtaining the housing of their choosing.\" These forms of housing discrimination occur at various stages of the rental or sales process. The majority of discriminatory actors in exclusionary discrimination are landlords and landowners, as they have the positional power and direct access to the individual or family and the housing being sought. Other discriminatory actors or institutions responsible for exclusion include real estate, insurance, and banking and lending agents and institutions.\n\nMost exclusionary discrimination cases entail forms of outright exclusion, such as a direct refusal to rent to a prospective tenant, direct refusal to sell or discuss the sale of a property, or the false representation of homes or apartments available for sale or rent. Although this outright exclusion is often made up of subtle actions, like lying about standards for rental qualification to disqualify certain individuals, it sometimes also comes with overt verbal abuse and slurs.\n\nOther exclusionary cases entail discriminatory terms and conditions pertaining to the sale or rental of an apartment or home with the purpose of denying access. These forms include unfair financing or loan qualifications or terms, steering or restricting the choices of people seeking homes, differential criteria to qualify to rent a home, and refusing to provide insurance, which would prevent the individual or family from acquiring a home. Consumer advocate groups conducted studies and found that many minority borrowers who were eligible for affordable, traditional loans were often steered toward incredibly high-priced subprime loans that they would never be able to repay.\n\nA study conducted by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) found that \"the greatest share of discrimination for Hispanic and African American home seekers can still be attributed to being told units are unavailable when they are available to non-Hispanic whites and being shown and told about less units than a comparable non-minority.\"\n\nNonexclusionary discrimination practices refer to \"actions and practices that occur within an already established housing arrangement, most often entailing racial harassment, differential treatment of tenants, or disparate application of contractual terms and conditions of residency.\" Individuals and families already housed experience ongoing intimidation, differential treatment, and harassment, and nonexclusionary discrimination often results in distress for victims since the victim is often legally bound to the home and usually has direct contact with the perpetrator on a regular basis. Landlords and owners are still responsible for the majority of this type of housing discrimination, but neighbors and banking and lending institutions participate more. For instance, even without institutionalized exclusionary power, residential neighbors can harass and intimidate tenants.\n\nMost nonexclusionary discrimination cases involve applying discriminatory terms and conditions within the victim's current residential setting. The majority of these cases involve terms, conditions, and privileges relating to a current rental arrangement. These cases are often seen as unfairly raising the rent of a select group or allowing certain tenants privileges, like using a facility after hours or being lenient on pet policies. Many nonexclusionary discrimination cases involve the failure to provide equal access to services and facilities, such as purposely delaying or completely forgoing fixing a broken pipe. More terms and conditions cases involve discriminatory financing, loans, and appraisals of the individual or family's property, which is when the discriminatory actor takes advantage of the victim financially.\n\nOther forms of nonexclusionary discrimination include the use of harassment, intimidation, and coercion toward victims. This includes racial slurs and threats of violence, both of which create an uneasy environment in which the victims live. These forms can cause excessive anxiety and stress for the individual or family affected. If an individual holding a position of an authority, such as the landlord, is responsible for the nonexclusionary discrimination, the victim is left with a feeling of powerlessness and lack of ability to get help.\n\nExclusionary and nonexclusionary describe the various disparate treatments that housing providers or agents can place upon renters and buyers. In addition to these types of housing discrimination, certain policies that do not discriminate on its face have also been found to cause housing discrimination in the United States. Disparate impact is a facially neutral housing policy that negatively impacts minorities or other protected groups of people. Disparate impact was not always looked at in the housing context. It was first applied in housing discrimination in 2015 when the Court found Congress had intended to include liability for disparate impact discrimination in the Fair Housing Act and its recognition is consistent with the central purpose of the Act since it was amended in 1988. After that case, HUD began recognizing many types of disparate impact treatment. For example, HUD published a statement concluding that blanket prohibitions against tenants with criminal convictions would constitute disparate impact housing discrimination because incarceration rates in the United States are disproportionate between minorities and non-minorities. Disparate impact remains controversial as some feel that their freedom in implementing policies and rules is now limited due to the fear of unintended consequences of rules that originally had no discriminatory intent.\n\nProfessor of Public Administration and Economics and expert in the field of housing discrimination studies, John Yinger, argues that discriminatory housing practices in the housing market have led to segregation and can be interpreted as forms of modern-day discrimination. One important example cited is of realtors opting to place public housing in crowded inner city minority neighborhoods instead of those with an Anglo majority due to \"public and political pressure.\" Other housing phenomena that Yinger argues encourage segregation are those of sorting and bidding in which bidders perceived to be higher-class win out on cheaper per-square-foot, larger homes farther away from inner cities. The study done by the U.S. Housing Scholars adds that school zoning has also been named a culprit for housing segregation, and may be used as a critical venue for housing discrimination. It also cites the Internet as yet another means for the perpetuation of housing discrimination that is, as of now, unrestricted by the provisions of the Fair Housing Act. While the Fair Housing Act strictly prohibits any sellers from using language that explicitly names a preference for a certain group, third-party sellers that use sites like Craigslist.com and Roommates.com to find buyers or renters are granted immunity from the FHA, and the websites are not held liable. This was cemented by the 2004 court case, \"Fair Housing Council of San Fernando Valley v. Roommates.com, LLC\", in which Roommates.com was not held liable for users with advertisements such as, 'looking for White Christian Male,' since the website did not have the resources to monitor and censor such usage.\n\nHousing discrimination focuses more on race, but recent studies have shown a growing trend toward discrimination in the housing market against those who identify themselves as gay, lesbian, or transgender. Since housing discrimination based on sexual orientation was not explicitly cited in the Fair Housing Act, as of 2007, it was banned only in 17 states. In all states, same-sex couples are frequently unable to apply to public housing as a family unit, thus decreasing their chances at being accepted into the program. For instance, in comprehensive study done by the Fair Housing Centers of Michigan in 2007, statistics showed that out of 120 paired-tests, almost 30 percent of same-sex couples were given higher rental rates and less encouragement to rent, both examples of nonexclusionary housing discrimination. An HUD study released in 2011 surveyed of 6,450 transgender and gender non-conforming persons and found that \"19 percent reported having been refused a house or an apartment because of gender identity.\"\n\nOn January 30, 2012, HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan announced new regulations that would require all housing providers that receive HUD funding to prevent housing discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. These regulations went into effect on March 5, 2012.\n\nEthnic and racial minorities are impacted the most by housing discrimination. Exclusionary discrimination against African Americans most often occurs in rental markets and sales markets. Families are vulnerable to exclusion, but African American women are especially overrepresented as victims, especially single African American mothers. This discriminatory exclusion is because of stereotypes concerning race and single women. The presence of children in a minority family at times is what warrants the discrimination. African Americans are also the victims in most nonexclusionary cases, with African American women still overrepresented. Nonexclusionary forms of discrimination such as racial slurs and intimidation affect many minority victims. Some racial minorities suffer the purposeful neglect of service needs, such as a landlord fixing a white tenant's bathtub quickly but delaying fixing the bathtub of the minority tenant. Data obtained by Ohio Civil Rights Commission studied housing discrimination cases between 1988 and 2003, and of the 2,176 cases filed, 1,741 were filed by African Americans. A study by HUD released in 2005 found that more and more Hispanics are facing discrimination in their housing searches. A 2011 article by HUD asserts that one out of five times, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders receive less favorable treatment than others when they seek housing. Some cases brought to the Department of Justice show that municipalities and other local government entities violated the Fair Housing Act of 1968 when they denied African Americans housing, permits, and zoning changes, or steered them toward neighborhoods with a predominantly minority population.\n\nQuasi-experimental audit studies, in which equally qualified individuals of different races both participate in housing searches, have found strong evidence of racial housing discrimination in the United States.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census of Population in 1990, 25.3 percent of all Anglo-Americans in the U.S. lived in central city areas. The percentage of African Americans living in inner cities was 56.9 percent, and the percentage of inner city Hispanics was 51.5 percent. Asian Americans living in central cities totaled 46.3 percent. According to a more recent U.S. Census Bureau study in 2002, the average white person living in a metropolitan area lives in a neighborhood that is 80 percent Anglo and seven percent black, while the average African American lives in a neighborhood that is 33 percent white and more than 51 percent black. As of 2000, 75 percent of all African Americans lived in highly segregated communities, making them the most segregated group in the nation. These statistics do not necessarily point to evidence of housing discrimination, but rather to segregation based on historical reasons which have made ethnic and racial minorities more economically deprived, and thus prone to living in more poverty-stricken inner city areas.\n\nIn a comprehensive study by the HUD in 2000, paired-tests (in which two applicants of different races but the same economic status and credit scores apply to rent or buy a house) were used to determine whether or not statistics about segregation truly pointed to housing discrimination. This study reported that although adverse treatment of racial and ethnic minorities has decreased over time, roughly 25 percent of white applicants were still favored above those who were African-American or Hispanic. About 17 percent of African American applicants and 20 percent of Hispanic applicants were subjected to adverse treatment, including receiving less information about a home or being shown fewer, lower-quality units.\n\nJohn Yinger, a sociologist who has studied housing discrimination, argues that it is something perhaps most concretely evidenced by its effects: concentrated poverty. People who suffer from housing discrimination often live in lower-quality housing. Housing inequalities often reflect the unequal distribution of income. Poor areas suffer from educational disparities, and a poor education translates into earnings disparities. Those who earn less can only afford lower-quality housing. Segregation, health risks, and wealth disparities all relate to poverty.\n\nPerhaps the most unmistakable consequence of housing discrimination is residential segregation. Housing discrimination helps reinforce residential segregation through mortgage discrimination, redlining, and predatory lending practices. Racial avoidance and threats of violence also result in racial segregation. Housing discrimination can also impact minority preferences over time, as individuals or families experiencing harassment and intimidation at their home on a daily basis may transition to more accepting neighborhoods.\n\nHealth risks are a consequence of housing discrimination. Those suffering housing discrimination and people living below the poverty threshold often rent small or low-quality housing. Lead paint left over from past years and animal pests, such as rats, can be found in older housing, resulting in serious health consequences. Lead can lead to lowered intelligence in children. Asthma is also a problem that comes with lower-quality housing, since more air pollution, dust, mold, and mildew are more likely to occur.\n\nNeighborhood effects are also seen due to housing discrimination and residential segregation. The housing inequality that comes with living in lower-quality housing means that neighborhood amenities are lacking. Poorer areas offer worse education, leading to educational and employment disadvantages and a higher school dropout rate. Schools are often segregated due to the effects of housing discrimination and residential segregation, in turn hindering students' educational performance. A study conducted by the Century Foundation in Montgomery County, Md., showed that students from a low-income background enrolled in affluent schools did better than students in higher-poverty schools. Criminal activity, including gang life and drug abuse, is also more prevalent in poorer areas. The rate of teenage pregnancy has been shown to increase in these areas as well.\n\nSociologists Thomas Shapiro and Jessica Kenty-Drane state that wealth disparities are also a result of housing discrimination, as housing discrimination acts as a barrier to homeownership. Homeowners may learn management and home repair skills, and the children of homeowners are less likely to drop out of high school or to have children as teenagers. Additionally, credit constraints limit homeownership for people with low income. Housing discrimination that keeps families from affordable loans and nicer areas with increasing property values keep victims from accumulating wealth. Residential segregation also leads to generational wealth disparities. Children often inherit wealth from their parents, and if parents were forced into poor-quality housing because of housing discrimination, then there is less wealth to hand down.\n\nSociologist Douglas Massey argues that housing discrimination is a moving target. As federal legislation concerning anti-housing discrimination policies become more effective, new forms of housing discrimination have emerged to perpetuate residential segregation, and in turn, poverty.\n\nThere have been a number of solutions proposed to finally end the threat of housing discrimination and eliminate any legal loopholes in which it may operate. So far fair housing enforcement of federal legislation concerning housing discrimination has faced challenges. The main burden of enforcement falls on federal financial regulatory institutions, like the Federal Reserve Board, and the HUD. The enforcement provisions of the Fair Housing Act of 1968 were limited, and even though the act was amended in 1988, there are still problems with enforcement since housing discrimination often happens one-on-one and is not very visible, even in audits. The Fair Housing Amendment Act of 1988 did make a system of administrative law judges to hear housing discrimination cases to help against the illegal actions. Other examples of federal legislation may include increased federal legislation enforcement, scattered-site housing, or state and local enforcement on a more concentrated level. Better methods of enforcement in addition to new policies are proposed to be a help. In 2010 the Justice Department under President Barack Obama made a new fair-lending unit.\n\nInclusionary remedies to truly enforce integration are also proposed. Inclusionary housing refers to making sure that areas are integrated, and inclusionary housing increases chances for racial minorities to gain and sustain employment. Recently Montgomery County, Md., passed an ordinance to require new housing developments to consist of a percentage of moderately priced dwelling units, guaranteeing more affordable better housing for 10 years.\n\nOther proposed solutions include subsidies, such as direct subsidies, project-based subsidies, household-based subsidies, and tax reductions. As of 2001, only 15.7 percent of poor households received federal housing subsidies, meaning a majority of people in poor households did not receive that help. Household-based subsidies have been a significant source of new housing assistance as of late. HUD has handed out housing certificates to allow participants of Section 8 to move into higher-quality housing units.\n\nIt is important to prioritize policy and city planning. Planning for sustainability does not come with a one-size fits all approach; wicked problems persist without clarity or solutions. However, looking beyond urban regimes and accepting the nexus of these regimes is the first step for change that planners can take. This can be done through the notion of Equitable Development, an approach that aims to create communities of opportunity. Inequalities oppressing low-income communities composed of diverse ethnicities are not only unethical but prove to be economically and environmentally unsustainable. Partnership between government, private sectors, and community-based organizations to manipulate public policy for the promotion of social equity, as well as, economic growth and environmental sustainability are crucial for justice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1036651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1036651", "title": "Input–output model", "text": "Input–output model\n\nIn economics, an input–output model is a quantitative economic technique that represents the interdependencies between different branches of a national economy or different regional economies. Wassily Leontief (1906–1999) is credited with developing this type of analysis and earned the Nobel Prize in Economics for his development of this model.\n\nFrancois Quesnay had developed a cruder version of this technique called Tableau économique, and Léon Walras's work \"Elements of Pure Economics\" on general equilibrium theory also was a forerunner and made a generalization of Leontief's seminal concept.\n\nAlexander Bogdanov has been credited with originating the concept in a report delivered to the All Russia Conference on the Scientific Organisation of Labour and Production Processes, in January 1921. This approach was also developed by L. N. Kritsman and T. F. Remington, who has argued that their work provided a link between Quesnay's tableau économique and the subsequent contributions by Vladimir Groman and Vladimir Bazarov to Gosplan's method of material balance planning.\n\nWassily Leontief's work in the input-output model was influenced by the works of the classical economists Karl Marx and Jean Charles Léonard de Sismondi. Karl Marx's economics provided an early outline involving a set of tables where the economy consisted of two interlinked departments.\n\nLeontief was the first to use a matrix representation of a national (or regional) economy.\n\nThe model depicts inter-industry relationships within an economy, showing how output from one industrial sector may become an input to another industrial sector. In the inter-industry matrix, column entries typically represent inputs to an industrial sector, while row entries represent outputs from a given sector. This format therefore shows how dependent each sector is on every other sector, both as a customer of outputs from other sectors and as a supplier of inputs. Each column of the input–output matrix shows the monetary value of inputs to each sector and each row represents the value of each sector's outputs.\n\nSay that we have an economy with formula_1 sectors. Each sector produces formula_2 units of a single homogeneous good. Assume that the formula_3th sector, in order to produce 1 unit, must use formula_4 units from sector formula_5. Furthermore, assume that each sector sells some of its output to other sectors (intermediate output) and some of its output to consumers (final output, or final demand). Call final demand in the formula_5th sector formula_7. Then we might write\n\nor total output equals intermediate output plus final output. If we let formula_9 be the matrix of coefficients formula_4, formula_11 be the vector of total output, and formula_12 be the vector of final demand, then our expression for the economy becomes\n\nwhich after re-writing becomes formula_14. If the matrix formula_15 is invertible then this is a linear system of equations with a unique solution, and so given some final demand vector the required output can be found. Furthermore, if the principal minors of the matrix formula_15 are all positive (known as the Hawkins–Simon condition), the required output vector formula_11 is non-negative.\n\nConsider an economy with two goods, A and B. The matrix of coefficients and the final demand is given by\n\nIntuitively, this corresponds to finding the amount of output each sector should produce given that we want 7 units of good A and 4 units of good B. Then solving the system of linear equations derived above gives us\n\nThere is an extensive literature on these models. There is the Hawkins–Simon condition on producibility. There has been research on disaggregation to clustered inter-industry flows, and on the study of constellations of industries. A great deal of empirical work has been done to identify coefficients, and data has been published for the national economy as well as for regions. The Leontief system can be extended to a model of general equilibrium; it offers a method of decomposing work done at a macro level.\n\nTransportation is implicit in the notion of inter-industry flows. It is explicitly recognized when transportation is identified as an industry – how much is purchased from transportation in order to produce. But this is not very satisfactory because transportation requirements differ, depending on industry locations and capacity constraints on regional production. Also, the receiver of goods generally pays freight cost, and often transportation data are lost because transportation costs are treated as part of the cost of the goods.\n\nWalter Isard and his student, Leon Moses, were quick to see the spatial economy and transportation implications of input–output, and began work in this area in the 1950s developing a concept of interregional input–output. Take a one region versus the world case. We wish to know something about interregional commodity flows, so introduce a column into the table headed \"exports\" and we introduce an \"import\" row.\n\nA more satisfactory way to proceed would be to tie regions together at the industry level. That is, we could identify both intra-region inter-industry transactions and inter-region inter-industry transactions. The problem here is that the table grows quickly.\n\nInput–output is conceptually simple. Its extension to a model of equilibrium in the national economy has been done successfully using high-quality data. One who wishes to do work with input–output systems must deal skillfully with industry classification, data estimation, and inverting very large, ill-conditioned matrices. Moreover, changes in relative prices are not readily handled by this modeling approach alone. Of course, input–output accounts are part and parcel to a more flexible form of modeling, Computable general equilibrium models.\n\nTwo additional difficulties are of interest in transportation work. There is the question of substituting one input for another, and there is the question about the stability of coefficients as production increases or decreases. These are intertwined questions. They have to do with the nature of regional production functions.\n\nBecause the input–output model is fundamentally linear in nature, it lends itself to rapid computation as well as flexibility in computing the effects of changes in demand. Input–output models for different regions can also be linked together to investigate the effects of inter-regional trade, and additional columns can be added to the table to perform environmentally extended input-output analysis (EEIOA). For example, information on fossil fuel inputs to each sector can be used to investigate flows of embodied carbon within and between different economies.\n\nThe structure of the input–output model has been incorporated into national accounting in many developed countries, and as such can be used to calculate important measures such as national GDP. Input–output economics has been used to study regional economies within a nation, and as a tool for national and regional economic planning. A main use of input–output analysis is to measure the economic impacts of events as well as public investments or programs as shown by IMPLAN and Regional Input-Output Modeling System. It is also used to identify economically related industry clusters and also so-called \"key\" or \"target\" industries (industries that are most likely to enhance the internal coherence of a specified economy). By linking industrial output to satellite accounts articulating energy use, effluent production, space needs, and so on, input–output analysts have extended the approaches application to a wide variety of uses.\n\nThe input-output model is one of the major conceptual models for a socialist planned economy. This model involves the direct determination of physical quantities to be produced in each industry, which is used to formulate a consistent economic plan of resource allocation. This method of planning is contrasted with price-directed Lange-model socialism and Soviet-style material balance planning.\n\nIn the economy of the Soviet Union, planning was conducted using the method of material balances up until the country's dissolution. The method of material balances was first developed in the 1930s during the Soviet Union's rapid industrialization drive. Input-output planning was never adopted because the material balance system had become entrenched in the Soviet economy, and input-output planning was shunned for ideological reasons. As a result, the benefits of consistent and detailed planning through input-output analysis was never realized in the Soviet-type economies.\n\nThe mathematics of input–output economics is straightforward, but the data requirements are enormous because the expenditures and revenues of each branch of economic activity have to be represented. As a result, not all countries collect the required data and data quality varies, even though a set of standards for the data's collection has been set out by the United Nations through its System of National Accounts (SNA): the most recent standard is the 2008 SNA. Because the data collection and preparation process for the input–output accounts is necessarily labor and computer intensive, input–output tables are often published long after the year in which the data were collected—typically as much as 5–7 years after. Moreover, the economic \"snapshot\" that the benchmark version of the tables provides of the economy's cross-section is typically taken only once every few years, at best.\n\nHowever, many developed countries estimate input–output accounts annually and with much greater recency. This is because while most uses of the input–output analysis focus on the matrix set of inter-industry exchanges, the actual focus of the analysis from the perspective of most national statistical agencies is the benchmarking of gross domestic product. Input–output tables therefore are an instrumental part of national accounts. As suggested above, the core input–output table reports only intermediate goods and services that are exchanged among industries. But an array of row vectors, typically aligned at the bottom of this matrix, record non-industrial inputs by industry like payments for labor; indirect business taxes; dividends, interest, and rents; capital consumption allowances (depreciation); other property-type income (like profits); and purchases from foreign suppliers (imports). At a national level, although excluding the imports, when summed this is called \"gross product originating\" or \"gross domestic product by industry.\" Another array of column vectors is called \"final demand\" or \"gross product consumed.\" This displays columns of spending by households, governments, changes in industry stocks, and industries on investment, as well as net exports. (See also Gross domestic product.) In any case, by employing the results of an economic census which asks for the sales, payrolls, and material/equipment/service input of each establishment, statistical agencies back into estimates of industry-level profits and investments using the input–output matrix as a sort of double-accounting framework.\n\nDespite the clear ability of the input-output model to depict and analyze the dependence of one industry or sector on another, Leontief and others never managed to introduce the full spectrum of dependency relations in a market economy. In 2003, Mohammad Gani , a pupil of Leontief, introduced consistency analysis in his book 'Foundations of Economic Science' (), which formally looks exactly like the input–output table but explores the dependency relations in terms of payments and intermediation relations. Consistency analysis explores the consistency of plans of buyers and sellers by decomposing the input–output table into four matrices, each for a different kind of means of payment. It integrates micro and macroeconomics into one model and deals with money in a value-free manner. It deals with the flow of funds via the movement of goods.\n\nA brief listing of some Input–output models: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24631335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24631335", "title": "Intact America", "text": "Intact America\n\nIntact America is a registered non-governmental Intactivist (pro-intact or anti-infant circumcision) organization created in 2008 to advance the view that the circumcision of non-consenting minors is unethical and medically unnecessary, and therefore should be abandoned. They also claim that circumcision reduces sexual sensation in males and that it is a violation of modern bio-ethical standards to forcibly remove erogenous tissue from children. The activist organization uses traditional media, social-networking, lobbying, demonstrating, and other methods to encourage social change. The group has been mentioned in the Chicago Tribune, New York Times, MSNBC, and Huffington Post.\n\nIn June 2009, Intact America issued a public statement regarding the Centers for Disease Control's (CDC) conference on HIV, in which the group urged the CDC \"to study the risks and ethics before recommending neonatal male circumcision.\" Intact America stated that \"The CDC is moving down a path towards an indefensible recommendation in favor of subjecting newborn baby boys to unnecessary and potentially risky surgery with no medical benefit.\"\n\nOn October 19, 2009, Intact America placed an open letter in the Washington Post addressed to the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), urging the AAP to inform parents about the ethical and health implications of circumcision.\n\nWhen the AAP released its new circumcision policy statement on August 27, 2012, Intact America formally demanded that the AAP retract the statement on the grounds that the policy was biased and did not protect the child's rights, \"It appears that the AAP is acting more as a trade association for doctors who perform this unnecessary surgery more than 1 million times a year, instead of standing up for the human rights and bodily integrity of the only patient that counts—the baby boy.\"\n\nIn May 2013, Intact America applied for a booth inside the exhibit hall of the annual convention of the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). When the ACOG denied this application because \"male circumcision is … of only casual interest to members of ACOG.\" Intact America staged a protest outside the convention. Obstetricians perform the majority of the million circumcisions that take place each year in the U.S.\n\nGeorganne Chapin, MPhil, JD, is Intact America's executive director. Intact America is maintained by donations from private donors. The organization is tax-exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2623934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2623934", "title": "International Clearing Union", "text": "International Clearing Union\n\nThe International Clearing Union (ICU) was one of the institutions proposed to be set up at the 1944 United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference at Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, in the United States, by British economist John Maynard Keynes. Its aim was to have been regulation of currency exchange, a role eventually taken by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). \n\nThe International Clearing Union (ICU) would be a global bank whose job would be the clearance of trade between nations, similar to a trade exchange with every country as a member. All international trade would be denominated in its own unit of account, the proposed bancor. The bancor was to have had a fixed exchange rate with national currencies, and would have been used to measure the balance of trade between nations. Every good exported would add bancors to a country's account, every good imported would subtract them. Each nation would be incentivized to keep their bancor balance close to zero. If a nation had too high a bancor surplus the ICU would take a percentage of that surplus and put it into the Clearing Union's Reserve Fund; this would encourage nations with surpluses to buy other nations' exports. Nations that imported more than they exported would have their currency depreciated against the bancor; encouraging other nations to buy their products, and making imports more expensive. Gold and national currency would no longer be used in international trade and no longer move between countries. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1656966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1656966", "title": "John George I, Elector of Saxony", "text": "John George I, Elector of Saxony\n\nJohn George I (German: Johann Georg I.) (5 March 1585 – 8 October 1656) was Elector of Saxony from 1611 to 1656.\n\nBorn in Dresden, John George was the second son of the Elector Christian I and Sophie of Brandenburg. He belonged to the Albertine line of the House of Wettin.\nJohn George succeeded to the electorate on 23 June 1611 on the death of his elder brother, Christian II. The geographical position of the Electorate of Saxony rather than her high standing among the German Protestants gave her ruler much importance during the Thirty Years' War. At the beginning of his reign, however, the new elector took up a somewhat detached position. His personal allegiance to Lutheranism was sound, but he liked neither the growing strength of Brandenburg nor the increasing prestige of the Palatinate; the adherence of the other branches of the Saxon ruling house to Protestantism seemed to him to suggest that the head of the Electorate of Saxony should throw his weight into the other scale, and he was prepared to favour the advances of the Habsburgs and the Roman Catholic party.\n\nThus John George was easily induced to vote for the election of Ferdinand, Archduke of Styria, as emperor in August 1619, an action which nullified the anticipated opposition of the Protestant electors. The new emperor secured the help of John George for the impending campaign in Bohemia by promising that he should be undisturbed in his possession of certain ecclesiastical lands. Carrying out his share of the bargain by occupying Silesia and Lusatia, where he displayed much clemency, the Saxon elector had thus some part in driving Frederick V, elector palatine of the Rhine, from Bohemia and in crushing Protestantism in that country, the crown of which he himself had previously refused.\n\nGradually, however, he was made uneasy by the obvious trend of the imperial policy towards the annihilation of Protestantism, and by a dread lest the ecclesiastical lands should be taken from him; and the issue of the edict of restitution in March 1629 put the capstone to his fears. Still, although clamouring vainly for the exemption of the electorate from the area covered by the edict, John George took no decisive measures to break his alliance with the emperor. He did, indeed, in February 1631 call a meeting of Protestant princes at Leipzig, but in spite of the appeals of the preacher Matthias Hoe von Hohenegg (1580–1645) he contented himself with a formal protest.\n\nMeanwhile, Gustavus Adolphus had landed in Germany, aiming to relieve Magdeburg. Gustavus attempted to conclude an alliance with John George to allow him to cross the Elbe at Wittenberg, but John George remained hesitant to join the Protestant cause and the discussions went nowhere. Hoping that an alliance would be concluded eventually, Gustavus avoided any military action.\n\nTilly, commander of the main imperial force, was also concerned about the possibility of an alliance, no matter how unlikely it was at the time. In order to preempt any such move, he invaded Saxony and started to ravage the countryside. This had the effect of driving John George into the alliance he had hoped to preempt, which was concluded in September 1631. The Saxon troops were present at the battle of Breitenfeld, but were routed by the imperialists, the elector himself seeking safety in flight.\n\nNevertheless, he soon took the offensive. Marching into Bohemia the Saxons occupied Prague, but John George soon began to negotiate for peace and consequently his soldiers offered little resistance to Wallenstein, who drove them back into Saxony. However, for the present the efforts of Gustavus Adolphus prevented the elector from deserting him, but the position was changed by the death of the king at Lützen in 1632, and the refusal of Saxony to join the Protestant league under Swedish leadership.\n\nStill letting his troops fight in a desultory fashion against the imperialists, John George again negotiated for peace, and in May 1635 he concluded the important treaty of Prague with Ferdinand II. His reward was Lusatia and certain other additions of territory; the retention by his son Augustus of the archbishopric of Magdeburg; and some concessions with regard to the edict of restitution. Almost at once he declared war upon the Swedes, but in October 1636 he was beaten at Wittstock; and Saxony, ravaged impartially by both sides, was soon in a deplorable condition. At length in September 1645 the elector was compelled to agree to a truce with the Swedes, who, however, retained Leipzig; and as far as Saxony was concerned this ended the Thirty Years' War. After the peace of Westphalia, which with regard to Saxony did little more than confirm the treaty of Prague, John George died on 8 October 1656.\n\nAlthough not without political acumen, John George was not a great ruler; his character appears to have been harsh and unlovely, and he was addicted to drink and other diversions such as hunting.\n\nJohn George was married twice. In addition to his successor John George II, he left three sons, Augustus (1614–1680), Christian (died 1691) and Maurice (died 1681).\n\nIn Dresden on 16 September 1604 Johann Georg married firstly Sibylle Elisabeth, daughter of Frederick I, Duke of Württemberg. She died in the birth of their only child:\n\nIn Torgau on 19 July 1607 Johann Georg married secondly Magdalene Sibylle, daughter of Albert Frederick, Duke of Prussia. They had ten children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18173", "title": "List of libertarian political parties", "text": "List of libertarian political parties\n\nMany countries and subnational political entities have libertarian political parties. Although these parties may describe themselves as \"libertarian,\" their ideologies differ considerably and not all of them support all elements of the libertarian agenda.\n\n"}
{"id": "30785890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30785890", "title": "Living energy farm", "text": "Living energy farm\n\nLiving Energy Farm, or \"LEF,\" is a zero fossil fuel intentional community of four adult members, some interns, plus at least a couple of kids (as of 2017) on 127 acres in rural Louisa County, Virginia. The farm is a Community in Dialogue with the Federation of Egalitarian Communities. It is 9 miles from Twin Oaks Community which helped support LEF when it was being founded. \n\nLEF is a \"neo-Amish\" farm and educational center. The farm grows crops and maintains orchards utilizing the methods of organic horticulture. Because of its fossil fuel avoidance, LEF relies on draft animals and tractors with wood gas engines that run directly off woodchips or other cellulosic debris.\n\nThe building and homes on the property are \"green,\" insulated and built with low-tech, local materials such as straw bales, rocks, and clay. Photovoltaic electricity, composting toilets, and greywater systems are integral to the community. In the winter, living spaces will be warmed with solar heating, and a natural cross ventilation will cool the buildings in the summer months.\n\nThe community aims to sustain itself financially by growing seeds for organic seed companies, selling organic fruits and vegetables and offering classes to the public.\n\nFor food preparation, members of the Living Energy Farm will utilize several technologies, including thermal storage, wood pyrolysis and solar cookers. A solar ammonia loop system now being used in various countries throughout the world will provide refrigeration. The system will have no electronic or moving parts and can be built out of low-cost materials.\nSteam power and non-battery solar energy (a DC micro-grid) satisfy other general energy needs. Bicycles are used for transportation.\n\nThe community will also have a location with access to the Internet and a telephone in order to be able to connect with the outside world.\n\nLEF hosts interns in an educational program covering diverse areas of modern sustainable living. The community aims to teach people, especially youths, about the importance of sustainable technology in context (i.e. when and where such technologies are effective and when they are not).\n\n"}
{"id": "55630131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55630131", "title": "Mary Thipe", "text": "Mary Thipe\n\nMary Thipe was a South African anti-apartheid and human rights activist who took part in the 1956 Women's March against apartheid pass laws, the South African potato boycott of 1959 and the Cato Manor Beer Hall boycott in the same year. Thipe was also the vice-chairperson of the Cato Manor branch of African National Congress Women's League (ANCWL) during the 1950s.\n\nMary Thipe was born in 1917 in a village called Ramhlakoane in the Matatiele district in the Eastern Cape, South Africa. She later moved to Umkhumbane in KwaZulu Natal and joined the liberation struggle in 1952. Thipe had six children, five daughters and one son. After joining the struggle for liberation, Thipe was arrested on numerous occasions, making it difficult to spend time with her children. In describing her upbringing, Thipe's daughter Maeketso said: \"We were raised by our father and some of our neighbours because my mother was arrested so many times. Sometimes people would laugh at us telling us our mother was in jail. It was hard. My mother never ever had a good life.\" Thipe died of a heart attack in 1982.\n\nMary Thipe joined the ANC during the Defiance Campaign of 1952. Thipe went on to become vice-chairperson of the Cato Manor branch of the African National Congress Women's League (ANCWL). She took a train from Cato Manor, KwaZulu-Natal to Pretoria to join hundreds of women who marched against pass laws on August 9, 1956. In an interview with the SABC, Thipe's daughter Maeketso said her mother refused to own a pass. \"One day they [apartheid police] came to our house. It was in the middle of the day and they came and wanted to see her dompass. She didn't have it and she told them that she would not carry it. They arrested her. She spent two weeks in jail,\" Maeketso said.\n\nOn 26 June 1959, Thipe and leaders of the ANC-aligned South African Congress of Trade Unions and Congress Alliance, launched the national potato boycott in response to the unsatisfactory working conditions of labourers in Bethal in the Eastern Transvaal, now known as Mpumalanga. Over 60, 000 people attended the launch of the boycott at Currie's Fountain in Durban. The boycott lasted until September 1959 after the farmers improved the conditions in the farms. The boycott is seen as one of the most successful boycotts led by the ANC and allies during the apartheid era.\nOn 17 June 1959, women led by Thipe and Dorothy Nyembe attacked the Cato Manor beer hall, forced their way inside, beating the men drinking there and wrecking the place. Rioting continued the next day and beer halls in other parts of town were attacked. This riot was organised to stop men from drinking sorghum beer while their children and wives starved.\n\nThipe's political work caught the attention of the apartheid government. She was put under house arrest for 10 years which meant she could not attend church services, funeral services of her loved ones and was not allowed to be in the company of more than three people. Every Monday morning, Thipe was required to report at the Cato Manor police station. This did not stop the security branch from harassing her even in her house arrest.\n\nShe had trained her children that each time police came in the middle of the night, they would wake up and stand behind her. She had also trained them to look at the police in the eye and not flinch. When three of Thipe's children went into exile, the police intensified their terror on Thipe and her family. \"They would come wake us up, wanting to know where our siblings are. When I went to college, they had someone keep tabs on me. They told me I am not allowed to participate in politics because my family was already in big trouble,\" said Thipe's daughter Maeketsi in an interview with SABC.\n\nWhen the police threatened to find Thipe's grandson and kill him, she retorted by requesting that they bring his head back to her. She refused to show fear and flinch at their threats. Even in the house arrest Thipe found ways to continue her work with the ANCWL, organising funerals of fallen comrades.\n\nThipe is regarded as one of the women who were instrumental in the fight against apartheid in South Africa. A road in Durban is named after Thipe in honour of her work in the Chesterville and Ntuzuma townships of Durban. The Mary Thipe Scholarship, which seeks to help students from poor families was launched in honour of her political work in Umkhumbane, Cato Manor and Chesterville in 2001. In April 2015, she was awarded the Order of Luthuli in Silver for her contributions to the South African struggle for freedom.\n\nBeer Hall Boycott\nWomen's March (South Africa)\n\n"}
{"id": "42880169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42880169", "title": "María Rosa Urraca Pastor", "text": "María Rosa Urraca Pastor\n\nMaría Rosa Urraca Pastor (1900–1984) was a Spanish Carlist politician and propagandist. She is known mostly as a thrilling orator, one of the best public speakers of the Second Spanish Republic. She is also noted as head of Delegación Nacional de Frentes y Hospitales, the Nationalist wartime organization catering for the wounded.\n\nMaría Rosa Urraca Pastor's paternal family originated from La Rioja. Her grandfather, Modesto Urraca Victoria, a native of Grañón, was the first reservoir keeper of the . Her father, Juan Urraca Sáenz (1873-1965), was born in Nalda, near Logroño. He joined the army and took part in unspecified combat missions, probably during the Spanish–American War. Back in Spain he first served in Madrid, assigned later to Burgos and finally in the early 20th century to Comisaría de Guerra de Bilbao. In 1913 he was transferred to Cuerpo Auxiliar de Intervención Militar, an intendancy and fiscal administration structure of the military. He first served as modest rank of auxiliar de tercera clase, shortly before retirement promoted to auxiliar mayor in 1928. At unspecified time he married Rafaela Pastor Ortega (died 1941) a native of Villahoz (Burgos). It is not clear how many children the couple had; none of the sources consulted refers to María's siblings.\n\nThough María Rosa was born in Madrid, at the age of 3 she followed her father's professional lot and in her early childhood the family moved from the capital to Burgos and then to Bilbao. She was raised in fervently Catholic ambience, as her father was member of a number of local religious societies like Hermandad de Nuestra Señora de Valvanera; he passed the pious zeal to the daughter. Nothing is known of political views of María's parents, except that her father was a non-Carlist monarchist. Another feature of her upbringing was profound respect for the military, considered „backbone of the nation\". Her early formation was completed by books; she later admitted that at the age of 14 she had been profoundly moved by the works Concepción Arenal and Graciano Martínez. The former advocated active public stance of women in the modern society; the latter, a Catholic friar, pursued the regenerationist path by focusing on social work of the Christians, also underlining the role of females.\n\nIt is not clear where María received her primary education; she later frequented Escuela Normal Superior de Maestras de Vizcaya, graduating in 1923. It is also not evident whether she has ever pursued the university path; herself she claimed having studied Filosofía y Letras, though neither the timing nor location are known; according to her later account, she followed the classes of Miguel de Unamuno and Julián Besteiro. Vivacious, straightforward and vibrant, Urraca commenced her professional career by teaching at La Obra del Ave-María, a network of Catholic schools founded by Andrés Manjón and focused on poverty-stricken children, at unspecified time in the 1920s acting as directora of the Bilbao branch. She also became auxiliary teacher at Escuela Normal de Bilbao, at that time considered „universidad femenina\". Urraca Pastor has never married and has had no children.\n\nUrraca first spoke publicly in 1923 during Semana Pedagogica in Bilbao. In the mid-1920s she entered Acción Católica de la Mujer; her insatiable character and a knack for letters produced the 1925 appointment to manager of \"Boletín de la ACM de Vizcaya\". Some scholars claim that by the end of the decade she became president of the entire Bilbao section of ACM. Urraca got enthusiastically involved in a number of social, charity and educational initiatives of the organization, at that time very much encouraged by the Primo de Rivera dictatorship. In the mid-1920s she became engaged in the nascent radio broadcasting; she was noted by the press as occasionally on air giving lectures on cultural subjects and commenced close co-operation with \"T.S.H.\", a weekly issued by Asociación Radio Española. She also admitted contributing to \"El Sol\", a Madrid daily of Liberal leaning, though nature of this engagement is rather obscure.\n\nThe young María Rosa became a role model for a new breed of Catholic female public activists, opposed to the old-style Catholic wife and mother epitome and throwing themselves in social and education work. A number of senior nationwide ACM militants – including her idol, Carmen Cuesta - entered the primoderiverista quasi-parliament, ; riding the wave of regime's modernizing attempts and its support for females activists, Urraca was appointed to the official labor administration. In 1929 she was nominated Inspectora De Trabajo, which converted her standing from a Catholic social worker to a state official. She took part in schemes like Patronato De Previsión Social de Vizcaya and Patronato Nacional De Recuperación De Inválidos Para El Trabajo. She started to address social issues by publishing in the press, be it local Biscay titles like \"\", \"\" and \"El Pueblo Vasco\" or national ones like \"La Nación\". Urraca also started to gain recognition beyond Biscay: professional duties brought her to other regions and ACM assignment enabled her to take part in 1929 Congreso Femenino Hispanoamericano, staged by the organization in Seville.\n\nUrraca considered the fall of the monarchy a national disaster. Almost immediately she engaged in public rallies either in favor of the monarchy or protesting against militantly secular policy of the Republic. Already in May 1931 she was detained and fined 500 pesetas for promoting a meeting classified as non-constitutional conspiracy. She seemed politically disoriented; due to her earlier engagements she was considered sort of a socialist, ACM record made her look towards Christian organizations, in the April 1931 elections Urraca worked as propagandist supporting Alfonsine candidates and she neared José María Albiñana and his Legionarios. In late 1931 she co-organized Agrupación de Defensa Femenina, a conservative female organization grouping Alfonsine monarchists, Carlists and the Basque Emakumes, and was later asked to write the program draft. Extremely active, she helped to organize 50 meetings during four months. In 1932 she was fired as labor inspector.\n\nWhen detained, active in joint right-wing women groupings or collecting funds to pay fines, Urraca started to meet and forged closer relations with female Carlists; she was particularly impressed by María Ortega de Pradera, local ACM leader and wife of the Traditionalist theorist Victor Pradera. She later claimed having been fascinated by their unshaken Christianity, valiance and fortitude, especially against the bewilderment of the Alfonsine monarchism. During the winter of 1931-1932 she neared the Carlists, starting to appear on their public rallies and quickly becoming sort of a rising star of the Carlist propaganda; her earlier combined experience in ACM, broadcasting, schools and newspapers turned her into a thrilling orator. Already in 1932 she was speaking at Carlist and Catholic meetings all over Spain, appearing among top Traditionalist politicians and most distinguished female activists. Urraca contributed also to Carlist press, activity which triggered further fines. In 1933 she was already sort of a Carlist celebrity, acclaimed by their political leaders. and called omnipresent. She was noted by political opponents: Indalecio Prieto ridiculed her in the press stating that \"the cavemen got their miss\", to which the Carlist Requetés responded by greeting her with \"Long Live Miss Cavemen\" cry.\n\nIn the 1933 elections she ran for the Cortes from Gipuzkoa as Carlist representative in Unión Regionalista Gipuzcoana; greeted by the Republican press as „candidatura de la Edad Media, típicamente troglodita\", she narrowly missed the election. Embittered by backstage political haggling Urraca was disillusioned by parliamentary politics; she went on with hectic propaganda activity across Spain, gaining nationwide recognition as an inflammatory and thrilling orator and greeted by homages from the Right and abuse from the Left. As Carlist leaders realized how important the female votes were she gained weight within the movement and entered correspondence with the Carlist queen, María de las Nieves.\n\nFollowing organizational shakeup of the party executive in 1934, the new leader Manuel Fal entrusted her with re-modeling the Secciones Femeninas of . Female groupings, known as Margaritas, operated as affiliated with local circulos; apart from boosting membership and launching new activities, Urraca was entrusted with turning the organization from very loose federation into a nationwide structure; since the task has never been fully completed she did not assume formal presidency, though some scholars name her de facto leader. Up to 1936 Margaritas recruited 23,000 women, mostly in Valencia, Navarre and Vascongadas. Urraca encouraged them to take courses in nursing (and took it herself), getting ready to the anticipated violent overthrow of the Republic. In 1936 she unsuccessfully run for the parliament again, this time from Teruel. Urraca continued her favorite social activities setting up Socorro Blanco, the Carlist relief organization. In the movement's press she campaigned for Spiritual Crusade of Prayer. In April 1936 she was detained for illegal possession of a pistol but was smuggled out of custody and spent the last few months of peace hiding in a village of Arcos de la Llana near Burgos.\n\nIn Aranda de Duero Urraca joined the Navarrese troops commanded by and heading for Madrid. On the intermittent basis she served as nurse on the Guadarrama front; during breaks she engaged in propaganda work and threw herself into organizing Carlist medical services, mostly recruiting women as nurses and auxiliary staff. November 1936 back in Guadarrama she spent Christmas among the soldiers, but moved – still as a nurse - to the Northern front in early 1937, partially present during the Nationalist conquest of Vascongadas. In immediate vicinity of the frontline Urraca made a picturesque figure; apart from typical medical activities she dispensed cognac at arbitrary doses to the wounded. According to some testimonies, she inflicted her Christian compassion upon the otherwise fanatical Carlist soldiers and prevented Nationalists from executing the Republican prisoners; she also publicly defended some captured Republicans accused of crimes. Other accounts point to her cruelty and suggest that she was co-responsible for Nationalist atrocities, especially for executions of Basque priests. She is also quoted writing that the orphaned Republican children should not be treated the same way as the Nationalist ones.\n\nIn late April called to Salamanca and received by Franco, she entered Sección Femenina of the newly created state party and along Pilar Primo de Rivera and became one of its leaders. Urraca assumed management of Delegación Nacional de Frentes y Hospitales, one of three branches of the Sección and entrusted with catering for the wounded. In FET she emerged as one of 3 Carlists among 14 heads of all Delegaciones. In October 1937 she was appointed - as one of 11 Carlists - to the newly established, 50-member Consejo Nacional, which triggered her expulsion from Comunión Tradicionalista. Engaged in organization and propaganda work, she kept visiting frontlines and was fêted along Nationalist heroes like Moscardó. Paradoxically, in the Republican media Urraca enjoyed no lesser popularity than in the Nationalist ones, mocked and ridiculed by the enemy press.\n\nIn Sección Femenina Urraca clashed with Pilar Primo de Rivera. Apart from the rivalry of strong female personalities, the conflict was fuelled by ideological differences between the original Falange and the Comunión. Urraca tried to ensure autonomy of the Delegación against the Falange-dominated Sección. Uneasy relationship developed into open conflict already in 1937, going from bad to worse and culminating in showdown related to personal appointments of provincial Delegación leaders, badges designed for the service and creation of Cuerpo de Enfermeras. Primo de Rivera got the upper hand and Urraca resigned from leadership posts in Sección Femenina in July 1938, which in some areas led to massive departures of the Margaritas and the ultimate failure of amalgamating Margaritas into FET. Though in 1939 she was confirmed as member of the II. Consejo and awarded Cruz Roja del Mérito Militar, Urraca was not appointed to the III. Consejo in 1942 and dropped out of the FET executive, soon retiring to privacy and settling temporarily with her parents in Zaragoza.\n\nWhen the civil war ended Urraca was only 39; her hectic activity of the past, abundant with a variety of initiatives and well portrayed in historiography, was to remain in sharp contrast with the next 45 years of her life, spent in privacy and ignored by historians: there is almost no scholarly information on her during that period. Her fate is compared to getting lost in \"horror vacui\", or disappearance in \"tierra di nadie\".\n\nWhen in Zaragoza Urraca befriended María Pilar Ros Martínez; she was Catalan herself and persuaded Urraca to move together to Barcelona. In 1939 or 1940 Urraca settled with her parents in the Catalan capital. In the new setting she turned her home into a cultural circle. In the 1940s Urraca staged regular reunions at home; they were intended as artistic events, often with prestigious guests invited and covering music, painting and theatre. She did not resume teaching; in 1940 Urraca started to deliver public lectures. Advertised in the press as „charlas-recitales\", they were usually focusing on arts, though some discussed history and were intended as homage to patriotic virtues. Applauded in the newspapers as „ilustra charlista\", she continued on commercial basis until the late 1940s, appearing also in Alava or Leon. The event, typically formatted as a semi-scholarly lecture, in her case was a theatrical monodrama, a genre of stage performance and actually delivered in places like Teatro Olympia.\n\nIn 1940 Urraca published wartime memoirs, titled \"Así empezamos\"; the work contained repeated homage references to Franco, though was principally designed as praise of males and especially females who contributed to the Nationalist war effort. The work tended to stay clear of assailing the Republican opponents; it highlighted serenity of serving the cause of God and Spain. Some scholars point to alleged incompatibility between ever-encompassing maternophilia and repeated masculine identifications, both neighboring in the book. In Barcelona Urraca set up her own publishing house named MRUPSA, which in the 1940s co-issued two biographical books she had written and edited herself: one dedicated to Francis Borgia and another one to Lola Montes; she also published few books of other authors. The enterprise ceased to operate in the late 1940s. Later on Urraca kept working on another book, dedicated to Mariology, but this one has never appeared in print.\n\nAs the family finances were sustained systematically only by military pension of her father, in mid-1950s Urraca started to give lessons in oratory skills. Though initially she advertised also teaching castellano, later she dropped this feature from her press ads, which were appearing regularly in the local newspapers until the late 1960s; the last identified was published when she was 70 years old. Since the death of her father in 1965, having no close family Urraca was increasingly alienated, also by the changing lifestyle patterns of the Spanish society. She maintained particularly close relationship only with María Pilar Comín Ros, almost 20 years her junior and the Barcelona press pundit on women's fashion.\n\nUpon termination of Urraca's term in the II. Consejo Nacional of Falange in 1942 she has almost entirely disappeared from politics, be it either this related to official Falangist structures, unofficial Carlist movement or semi-political Catholic organizations. In scholarly works on political life during Francoism she is almost absent, very few times appearing marginally in works dealing with post-war Carlism. Her public activity – apart from organizing reunions, delivering charlas and editorial work, all intended mostly to sustain ailing family finances – was mostly about engagement in local parochial and municipal Christian initiatives. She is noted as busy in apostolate of the lay, sort of going on with her earlier teaching work when running cursillos organized by España Cristiana, and maintaining interest in social issues by animating Catholic charity.\n\nIn the early 1940s Urraca was still noted as taking part in broad public Carlist initiatives. In 1942 she was among the distinguished guests present at the Montcada i Reixac cemetery, attending memorial service to the fallen requetés and led by the Catalan Carlist leader Maurici de Sivatte by the Mausoleum, erected 2 years earlier. None of the sources consulted refers to her engagement in Carlist political structures; some authors claim that the Carlists have never forgiven her the 1937-1942 engagement in Falange. It is not clear what stand – if any – she took when faced with fragmentation of Carlism, especially the Carloctavista breakup in the 1940s and the Sivattista secession in the 1950s. The official propaganda ignored her; her old-time rival, Pilar Primo de Rivera, made sure Urraca does not grow to prominence and the feminine model she advanced was not in line with masculine domination in public life, advanced by Francoism. She is noted, however, as taking part in various commemorative events organized by Catholic or social organizations. She also remained in touch with some personalities from both the Carlist and Republican camp.\n\nUrraca increased her public profile by the end of her life, re-engaging in Carlism. As at that time the movement was torn between the Traditionalists and the socialists from Partido Carlista, she sided with the former; in 1972 she co-signed a document issued by Junta Nacional del Requeté, which lambasted Carlos Hugo as the one abandoned the Carlist standard. Urraca remained engaged in anti-hugocarlista backlash also later on, her last voice on the issue was heard in 1974. Also during transición she took part in cultural events related to orthodox Carlism. In return, she was berated by the Partido Carlista propagandists as traitor and \"enfermera de Franco\". In the late 1970s she is known to have neared the post-Francoist búnker; in 1976 she lent her support to Blas Piñar and his Fuerza Nueva; in 1977, shortly before official dissolution of Movimiento Nacional, she still used to frequent its Barcelona premises, recorded as affable, restrained, but energetic and committed to her ideals. Until her death she considered herself a Carlist. In a letter sent to \"La Vanguardia\" in 1982, Urraca proudly confirmed her lifetime identity.\n\nIn the 1930s hailed by the Right as electrifying orator and ridiculed by the Left as political troglodyte, after the Civil War Urraca has almost fallen into oblivion, save for three of her scarcely popular books. In the tightly censored media of the late 1940s an ex-Republican soldier turned graphics artist, , was permitted to create and publicize her malicious alter-ego known as , a comics figure to become iconic character in the Spanish print. A direct reference has never been made; some claim the cartoon figure had nothing to do with Urraca Pastor, some maintain that there is little doubt the ugly black-dressed witch, keen to abuse the weak with a sole purpose to do evil was aimed to mock her. During transición she took the brunt of long-suppressed Republican anger; a wartime Francoist agent in France, an unrelated Pedro Urraca Rendueles, was presented as „Urraca Pastor\" and there was even a 1979 theatric play featuring him as a villain involved in execution of Companys. Shortly before death she was mocked as a mustached nurse by the Noble-prize winner José Cela in his \"Mazurca para dos muertos\" (1983); in literature she also appears - as bulky and ugly conspirator - in \"Inquietud en el Paraíso\" (2005) by Óscar Esquivias.\n\nIn historiography she is approached as a representative of various social phenomena rather than as a personality herself. One author considers Urraca a typical sample of middle-class women politicized by rocky times of the Second Republic. Another scholar advances a competitive thesis, namely that she engaged in public life mostly as a result of modernizing primoderiverista attempts combined with rising social activity of the Catholics. Some point to social issues as a key thread of her activity, some point to her traditional Catholicism and some focus on feminism. This approach is particularly popular, as Urraca is often mentioned when discussing growing role of women in the recent history of Spain. Though in the Basque realm she is held responsible for executions of priests, by many other scholars Urraca is viewed with cautious sympathy, as a person who was allegedly passionate about equality of the sexes, social justice, classless society and post-war reconciliation, a victim rather than a culprit.\n\nExcept one early re-edition of \"Asi empezamos\" none of Urraca's books has been re-printed. In Carlist historiography she either tends to be ignored by Traditionalist writers or to be abused by Partido Carlista militants. Apart from a handful of related scholarly articles, she has earned one monograph so far, a master thesis in gender studies accepted at Universidad de Salamanca in 2012. In a remote tiny Andalusian village of La Dehesa there is a street commemorating Urraca Pastor. An internet myth has it – information not confirmed by any scholarly work – that Urraca was responsible for Roman Catholic re-conversion of Dolores Ibarruri few years before death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27937480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27937480", "title": "Memorial to Victims of Stalinist Repression", "text": "Memorial to Victims of Stalinist Repression\n\nThe Train of Pain - Memorial to Victims of Stalinist Repression () is a monument in Chişinău, Moldova. A temporary stone was unveiled in 1990 in Central Station Square commemorating the 1940-1951 mass deportations in Soviet Moldavia. A permanent memorial was completed at the site in 2013. The sculptural element was assembled in Belarus. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "44533145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44533145", "title": "Ministry of Defence and Veterans Affairs (Uganda)", "text": "Ministry of Defence and Veterans Affairs (Uganda)\n\nThe Ministry of Defence and Veterans Affairs (MODVA) is a government ministry responsible for the national defence and security of Uganda. In this capacity, its role is to preserve, defend and protect the people, property, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Uganda, contributing to regional stability and supporting international peace initiatives.\n\nThe headquarters of the ministry are located in the Mbuya Military Barracks, on Chwa II Road, in the Nakawa Division of the city of Kampala, Uganda's capital and largest city. The coordinates of the headquarters of the ministry are: 0°19'36.0\"N, 32°37'53.0\"E (Latitude:0.326656; Longitude:32.631375).\n\nThe ministry oversees the Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF). This ensures that the UPDF is ultimately answerable to the people of Uganda, while it remains professional, with focus on protecting its citizens, defending national sovereignty and contributing to regional stability. \n\nAdministratively, the ministry is oranised into three departments: the Department of Administration, Department of Finance, and Department of Logistics. The Permanent Secretary is the Chief Executive and Chief Accounting Officer for the entire ministry. \n\nThe ministry is headed by a cabinet minister. The current Minister of Defence, since 6 June 2016, is Adolf Mwesige. He is deputised by the Minister of State, currently Colonel Charles Engola Okello.\n\nDuring the colonial days, the national defence forces were named King's African Rifles (KAR). Later the name changed to Uganda Rifles (UR) and then Uganda Army (UA). The force that fought the Uganda Bush War, from 8 February 1981 to 26 January 1986, was called the National Liberation Army. In 1995, when a new constitution was promulgated, the name was changed to Uganda People's Defence Force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29602843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29602843", "title": "Ministry of Defense (Kazakhstan)", "text": "Ministry of Defense (Kazakhstan)\n\nThe Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Kazakh:Қазақстан Республикасының Қорғаныс министрлігі) is a government agency of Kazakhstan which is the main executive body in implementing military policy. The Defense Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the head of the Ministry of Defense, whose duties are to exercise the administrative leadership of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The ministry was established in May 1992 and is currently headed by Nurlan Ermekbaev. The first Minister of Defense was Army General Sagadat Nurmagambetov who served from May 1992 to October 16, 1995.\n\nThe Ministry of Defense conducts the following tasks:\n\n\nThe General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the main body for the management of the armed forces of the state in peacetime and wartime, coordinates the development of plans for the construction and development of the Armed Forces, other troops and military formations, their operational, combat and mobilization training, organizes and carries out strategic planning application and interaction of the Armed Forces, other troops and military formations, and also develops a plan for the operational equipment of the country's territory in defense.\n\nThe Cadet Corps of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan named after Shoqan Walikhanov (Russian: Кадетский корпус Министерства обороны Республики Казахстан имени Чокана Валиханова) is a insitution of the ministry that was formed on 1 July 1996 as a secondary school that prepared Kazakh youth for service in the military and for leadership as junior army, navy, and air force commanders. A similar task is done today by the Astana Zhas Ulan Republican School. A month after its formation, the corps had 96 enlisted cadets, most of whom came from the Alma-Ata Higher All-Arms Command School (now the Military Institute of the Kazakh Ground Forces). On its first graduation day on July 29, 1999, where 11 cadets graduated from the corps and enrolled in higher educational institutions, the corps received its own battle flag by the then head of the corps, Colonel Kuangaliev and defense minister Mukhtar Altynbayev. The corps is currently based in the city of Shchuchinsk in the Akmola Region.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48640150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48640150", "title": "Minors and the legality of cannabis", "text": "Minors and the legality of cannabis\n\nMinors and the legality of cannabis is a topic around the world because there are many concerns about cannabis affecting adolescents and minors in negative ways. One example of why people find cannabis use among adolescents bad is because they are at a far greater risk of becoming dependent on cannabis. This is one of many reasons of why many different countries regulate cannabis differently, but still maintain a strict regulation on cannabis use among minors. The interaction that minors tend to have with cannabis is dependent on their location. Their location can also shape their perspective on cannabis, which can influence their usage of cannabis.\nCannabis has many purposes, including medicinal, but the general public has started showing an interest in the legalization and decriminalization of cannabis within different countries such as the United States, Uruguay, and the Netherlands. \n\nIn the United States, where cannabis is not legal on the federal level, states still have the opportunity to legalize cannabis for recreational or medical use if they want. As of 2018, there are 26 states and Washington, D.C. that have legalized some kind of medical cannabis law and eight states that have legalized cannabis for recreational use for individuals that are at least 21 years old. In 2014, all aspects of cannabis were legalized in the country of Uruguay, which means the sale, production, and consumption is legal for those that are at least 15 years old. While this was passed in Uruguay in an attempt to reduce crime and the drug cartel, many individuals strongly oppose the legalization of cannabis. In the Netherlands, all drugs are technically illegal, but the government created a policy that tends to tolerate cannabis under strict conditions. Individuals that are 18 years old and older can smoke cannabis within a certain space known as a “coffeeshop\".\n\nCountries tend to regulate cannabis differently depending on the way in which they view cannabis and its potential effects on individuals, including minors. One reason that individuals are concerned about the use among minors is because of the higher chance of dependency that studies have shown. Epidemiologists have found that 9% of people who begin smoking marijuana at 19 years or older satisfy the criteria of dependency and this number triples at ages under 18 years old. The reason for this is that a minor's brain is under rapid development when they are young. Studies have also shown that anxiety and depressive disorders have been the product of cannabis use and exposure among minors.\n\nMedical cannabis is used for children with severe illnesses such as cancer and epilepsy. The use of cannabis relieves the pain and is seen as a “healthier” alternative because it is less addictive than drugs such as morphine and Oxycontin. Other pain-relieving medicines that are opioids tend to cause nausea and vomiting, while cannabis reduces these side effects. Because of this, many advocates argue that if opioids are acceptable to treat a minor’s pain, then cannabis should be as well. As cannabis consumption among minors has increased, the rate at which they consume alcohol and smoke cigarettes has decreased dramatically.\n\nIn the United States, marijuana is illegal under the federal Controlled Substances Act, but most states have legalized some form of medical marijuana, and a smaller but growing number of states have legalized marijuana for recreational use by adults. However, \"it is currently illegal in all 50 states for minors to use marijuana recreationally.\" In some states (such as Illinois, Pennsylvania, and Connecticut) minors may use certain forms of marijuana for medical use if certain specific conditions are met.\n\nUruguay legalized cannabis in 2014. Uruguay is the first nation in the world to regulate all aspects of the cannabis market (production, sales, and consumption) for those that are at least 18 years old. The reason for its proposed legalization was to get rid of the organized crime and violence that came along with the illegal drug industry. Their efforts to legalize the drug were not done because of social pressure, but more so out of the efforts to protect society from the dangers that are produced from an illegal market. Uruguay’s government wanted to seize the market from criminals, not encourage individuals to smoke cannabis. The law that was put into place states that an individual can have up to six plants at their home, cannabis will be sold over the counter, buyers must sign up for a registry that permits the purchase of cannabis, and there is a 40-gram cap per month.\n\nDespite cannabis being legalized in Uruguay, over 60 percent of people in the country believe legalization should be repealed. Many individuals are doubtful that the legalization of cannabis will get rid of criminal organizations, such as the drug cartel. While criminal groups will not be able to compete with the legalized cannabis costs, they will be able to fall back on other activities such as trafficking and selling harder drugs, which can lead to larger crime. Because the purpose of legalization is for public health and safety reasons, publicity or advertising is against the law. Any kind of publicity of cannabis is prohibited, meaning there cannot be any billboards or advertisements for the drug. Because of the strong opposition of legalization within Uruguay, there is no movement towards legalization of cannabis for minors.\n\nDespite the skepticism within society, data has shown that among regular consumers, young individuals are most likely to be the ones consuming cannabis. The age in which one can possess and consume cannabis is 18. In comparison to the United States, this is three years younger. The cannabis consumption age in Uruguay is a reflection of the drinking age, because the legal drinking age in Uruguay is 18 years old as well. Like the United States, Uruguay applied the same kind of restrictions to cannabis as they did to alcohol.\n\nAfter the legalization had passed within Uruguay, there was an increase in secondary school students’ prevalence with the drug. In 2003, 8.4% of students had consumed marijuana during the previous twelve months, and in 2014, 17% had. The typical user at this age was much more likely to be male than female. There are many concerns about this increase in cannabis use, which is why new prevention strategies are being suggested, such as drug education courses.\n\nAll drugs, including cannabis, are technically illegal in the Netherlands. This means it is illegal to produce, possess, and sell the drugs. Dutch police conduct about 5,000 marijuana raids annually throughout the country. But the government designed a drug policy that tolerates cannabis use under strict conditions for those that are at least 18 years old. \n\nThe only places individuals can really smoke cannabis is within \"coffeeshops\". In these coffeeshops, they sell cannabis, which is considered to be soft drugs in comparison to hard drugs; drugs such as heroin. The purpose of these coffee shops are to help people who use soft drugs such as cannabis, to avoid contact with hard drugs, such as heroine. The legal age to get into these coffeeshops is 18 years old. While cannabis can be sold legally through coffeeshops, trafficking the drug is illegal under Dutch law, which means that the coffeeshops have to obtain their cannabis secretly and illegally.\n\nCriteria for coffee shops:\n\nMany children as young as twelve years old are feeling pressured to try cannabis in the Netherlands. The reason for this is because of the tolerance principle that is in place, meaning that authorities cannot prosecute someone for possessing cannabis if it is under five grams. Because of the lack of enforcement in this, it is giving children the opportunity to possess marijuana in small amounts. Dutch youth have reported higher than average availability of cannabis, but no higher compared to the United States. Many coffee shops have been shut down because of how close they are to schools. Local authorities were afraid that the location of the businesses would influence the youth and take advantage of them.\n\nAmsterdam's mayor, Eberhard van der Laan stated “I think the more relaxed you look at this phenomena, the easier people will stop with it because there is no thrill in using it [if it’s tolerated]\". This is a common perception among many individuals within the Netherlands. While they fear substance abuse, citizens of the Netherlands are accepting of the decriminalization of cannabis because individuals will often start to find it \"boring\" and no longer want to consume cannabis. There is currently no movement towards decriminalization or legalization of cannabis for minors.\n\n"}
{"id": "42642157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42642157", "title": "New Zealand contributions to human rights instruments", "text": "New Zealand contributions to human rights instruments\n\nNew Zealand has taken an active role in the negotiation and drafting of several international human rights instruments including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.\n\nNew Zealand made a number of contributions in the lead up to and in the drafting of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on December 10, 1948.\n\nIts first involvement came in 1945 when a New Zealand delegation led by then Prime Minister Peter Fraser, attended the United Nations Conference on International Organization held in San Francisco. This conference resulted in the creation of the United Nations Charter, the founding document of the United Nations (UN).\n\nAt the time of the conference, Chapter One which sets out the purposes and principles of the proposed UN made no reference to human rights and fundamental freedoms. In light of this, New Zealand proposed a new paragraph be inserted in the Article 1 stating that “All members of the organisation undertake to preserve, protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and in particular the rights of freedom from want, freedom of speech and freedom of worship.”\n\nThe amendment was not incorporated but there are several references to human rights and fundamental freedoms in both the Preamble and in Article 1 which stipulates one of the purposes of the United Nations as being:\n\nTo achieve international co-operation in solving problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character, and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion.\n\nNew Zealand’s second major contribution occurred in relation to a draft Declaration sent to UN member governments by The United Nations Commission on Human Rights in 1947.\n\nA special Human Rights Committee composed of the Solicitor-General, the Director of Education, the Director of the New Zealand Council of Educational Research, and four academics at Victoria University College (now Victoria University of Wellington), was formed to comment on the draft. Subject to a few minor changes, its findings were sent to the Commission as the New Zealand Government’s views. New Zealand was one of the only countries to make such a submission.\n\nAgain led by Peter Fraser, a delegation attended a number of meetings held by the General Assembly's Third Committee in Paris to comment on the final drafting of the UDHR.\n\nOriginally, New Zealand expressed the view that the Declaration should not be adopted at the Paris Assembly. Rather, the International Bill of Rights consisting of the Declaration, Covenant and measures of implementation, should be adopted as a whole. The reason for this view was that it was thought that adopting the Declaration first, intended to be a statement of principles with moral effect only, would prejudice the preparation of the Covenant. This was particularly so given that, unlike the Declaration, the Covenant created legal obligations.\n\nEventually, New Zealand conceded to the majority view and agreed that immediately adopting the Declaration was necessary for matters to progress. It did, however, successfully put forward a resolution calling on the Commission on Human Rights to continue to give priority to the Covenant and measures of implementation.\n\nNew Zealand's final contribution involved a proposal to alter the wording in Article 23(4) which is concerned with trade unions. Originally, the text read: \"Everyone is free to form and join trade unions\" but after the Third Committee accepted a New Zealand wording, now reads \"Everyone has the right to form and join trade unions for the protection of his interests.\"\n\nNew Zealand contributed significantly to the co-ordination and drafting of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) which was adopted by the General Assembly on 13 December 2006 and came into force on 3 May 2008.\n\nNew Zealand first became involved in July 2002 when the Ad Hoc Committee, established by the General Assembly to consider proposals for a convention, held its first meeting. Represented by the New Zealand Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Don MacKay, the New Zealand Office for Disability Issues and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade(MFAT) delivered a formal statement to the meeting.\n\nThe statement:\n\nFollowing this meeting and subsequent discussions led by the Human Rights Commission and members of the disability community in New Zealand, the New Zealand Government formally agreed to participate in the Convention negotiations in May 2003.\n\nIt demonstrated this commitment by funding a delegation to attend the second Ad Hoc Committee meeting at the UN in New York in June 2003. The delegation included several government officials and two representatives from the disability community. At the meeting, the delegation put forward a proposal to establish a working group which would:\n\n\nThis proposal was subsequently adopted by the Committee and the Working Group was formed.\n\nThe Government again demonstrated its commitment to the development of the a convention when it made a written submission to the Working Group in November 2003. The submission stipulated a number of recommendations as to the approach, structure, and scope of the proposed convention.\n\nNew Zealand was given the opportunity to put these views forward further when, represented by the Director of the Office of Disability Issues, Dr Jan Scown, it was granted a place on the Working Group in December 2003.\n\nAs proposed, the Working Group met in New York for two weeks in January 2004 to develop a draft convention text. At its first meeting on 5 January, New Zealand Ambassador, Don MacKay, was appointed to co-ordinate the group. It also included Jan Scown as the New Zealand delegate and New Zealander Robert Martin as a representative of NGO Inclusion International.\n\nPresented to the third Ad Hoc Committee meeting held from 24 May to 4 June 2004, the draft text acted as a basis for negotiation by member states and other stakeholders. New Zealand continued its active participation by again attending this Ad Hoc Committee meeting. Its official delegation included both government representatives from the Office for Disability Issues and MFAT and non-government representatives from Disabled Person's Assembly (DPA) New Zealand.\n\nFollowing this meeting, members of the New Zealand delegation sought feedback on the draft developed by the Working Group from both New Zealand government agencies and the disability community. This was used to inform the principles the delegation would aim to promote in future negotiations.\n\nThe general negotiating principles the New Zealand delegation were guided by included:\n\n\nNegotiations continued at the fourth session of the Ad Hoc Committee from 23 August to 3 September 2004. New Zealand was again represented by a delegation of officials from the Office of Disability Issues and MFAT; by New Zealand Ambassador Don MacKay; and by Gary Williams, CEO of the Disabled Person's Assembly. At the meeting, New Zealand co-ordinated discussions on the draft convention text.\n\nNegotiations on the proposed convention text resumed from 24 January to 4 February 2005. New Zealand continued to be actively involved through the presence of representatives from the Office of Disability Issues, the Like Minds Like Mine national consumer advisory group and the Human Rights Commission working in partnership with the MFAT and staff of the New Zealand Permanent Mission to the United Nations.\n\nNew Zealand’s leadership was further endorsed when Don MacKay was appointed as Chair of the Ad Hoc Committee in April 2005.\n\nIn August 2005, MacKay, along with a delegation of representatives from the Office for Disability Issues, the Mental Health Commission, the Human Rights Commission and DPA, led further discussions on the proposed convention text at an Ad Hoc Committee session in New York.\n\nNegotiations continued into 2006 where from 16 January to 3 February, the Ad Hoc Committee held its seventh session, the goal of which was to complete a full reading of the draft text prepared by Chair Don MacKay in order to produce a final set of draft articles. New Zealand was again represented by a delegation of government and non-government officials whose goal was to use consultation data gathered from disabled New Zealanders and the New Zealand Disability Strategy to strengthen the existing text.\n\nBy the end of the meeting, the Committee had agreed upon the content of the majority of the draft articles, which according to chair Don MacKay, were “very well supported”. The next session was scheduled for August, which MacKay proposed be focused on the remaining substantive issues within the text rather than the content or linguistic nature of the articles. He challenged states to return willing to compromise in order not to delay the adoption of the convention.\n\nThe meeting was held from 14 to 25 August 2006. New Zealand again brought a delegation which this time consisted of officials from the Office of Disability Issues, MFAT and the Human Rights Commission and members of DPA and a mental health consumer advocacy group. A significant outcome of the meeting was the establishment of a Drafting Committee tasked with ensuring uniformity of terminology throughout the text of the draft convention, harmonizing the versions in the official languages of the United Nations and reporting on the results of its work to the Ad Hoc Committee.\n\nOn 5 December 2006 at a meeting in New York, Drafting Committee chair Stefan Barriga presented the results of its work to the Ad Hoc Committee, still chaired by New Zealander Don MacKay. The Committee forwarded this draft report with the final text of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the optional protocol to the General Assembly for adoption.\n\nThe Convention and its Optional Protocol were officially adopted by the Plenary of the General Assembly by consensus on December 13, 2006.\n\nOn March 30, 2007, it opened for signatures. New Zealand signed it alongside 81 other nations at a signing ceremony in at the UN in New York. New Zealand was represented by Minister for Disability Issues, Ruth Dyson, who spoke at the ceremony.\n\nNew Zealand ratified the Convention on 25 September 2008. It continues to monitor its progress in the implementation of the Convention in accordance with Article 35 through monitoring reports, the first of which was submitted to the UN in March 2011.\n\nThe United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is scheduled to review its implementation in New Zealand September 2014.\n\nNew Zealand also contributed to the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, aiming at the abolition the death penalty.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088441", "title": "OECD Anti-Bribery Convention", "text": "OECD Anti-Bribery Convention\n\nThe OECD Anti-Bribery Convention (officially Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions) is an anti-corruption convention of the OECD aimed at reducing political corruption and corporate crime in developing countries, by encouraging sanctions against bribery in international business transactions carried out by companies based in the Convention member countries. Its goal is to create a truly level playing field in today's international business environment. The Convention requires adherents to criminalise acts of offering or giving bribe, but not of soliciting or receiving bribes.\n\nA 2017 study found that multinational corporations that were subject to the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention were less likely to engage in bribery than corporations that were based in non-member states.\n\nIn 1989, the OECD established an \"ad hoc\" working group for comparative review of national legislations regarding the bribery of foreign public officials. In 1994, the OECD Ministerial Council adopted the recommendation of the \"Council on Bribery in International Business Transactions\"; The convention was signed on 17 December 1997 and came into force on 15 February 1999. A revised recommendation was adopted in 2009.\n\nCountries that have signed the convention are required to put in place legislation that criminalises the act of bribing a foreign public official. The OECD has no authority to implement the convention, but instead monitors implementation by participating countries via its Working Group on Bribery. Countries are responsible for implementing laws and regulations that conform to the convention and therefore provide for enforcement. The OECD performs its monitoring function in a four-phased examination process, with Phase 4 launched on 16 March 2016. Phase I consists of a review of legislation implementing the conventions in the member country with the goal of evaluating the adequacy of the laws. Phase 2 assesses the effectiveness with which the legislation is applied. Phase 3 assesses how well adherents are enforcing the Convention, the 2009 Recommendation, and any follow-up recommendations from Phase 2. Phase 4 is intended to be a tailored review specific to the needs of the adherent country. The Working Group on Bribery prepares a public report at the end of each phase. These reports are adopted under the principle of \"consensus minus one,\" meaning that the country under examination cannot block publication of the report.\n\nThe Convention is open to accession by any country which is a member of the OECD or has become a full participant in the OECD Working Group on Bribery in International Business Transactions. As of 2017, 43 countries have ratified or acceded to the convention:\n\nCosta Rica, Colombia and Latvia are the most recent states to have ratified the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention, having done so on July 23, 2017, January 19, 2013 and May 30, 2014, respectively. Other countries that have participated as observers in the Working Group include China, Peru, Indonesia, and Malaysia.\n\n"}
{"id": "20758292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20758292", "title": "Obligation assimilable du Trésor", "text": "Obligation assimilable du Trésor\n\nOATs (Obligations assimilables du Trésor) are government bonds issued by Agence France Trésor (French Treasury), generally by auction according to an annual calendar published in advance. These fungible securities are issued with maturities of seven to 50 years, and have become the method of choice for placing the French government’s long-term debt.\n\n"}
{"id": "3291227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3291227", "title": "Pro-democracy camp (Hong Kong)", "text": "Pro-democracy camp (Hong Kong)\n\nThe pro-democracy camp or pan-democracy camp (Chinese: 民主派 or 泛民主派) refers to a political alignment that supports increased democracy, namely the universal suffrage of the Chief Executive and the Legislative Council as given by the Basic Law under the \"One Country, Two Systems\" framework.\n\nThe pro-democrats generally embrace liberal values such as rule of law, human rights, civil liberties and social justice, yet their economic positions vary. They are often identified as the \"opposition camp\" due to its non-cooperative and sometimes confrontational stance toward the Hong Kong SAR and Chinese central governments. Opposite to the pro-democracy camp is the pro-Beijing camp, whose members are perceived to be supportive of the central government of China. Since the handover, the pro-democracy camp has received 55 to 60 per cent of the votes in each election but returned less than a half of the seats in the Legislative Council due to the indirectly elected elements of the legislature.\n\nThe pro-democracy activists emerged from the youth movements in the 1970s and began to take part in electoral politics as the colonial government introduced representative democracy in the mid 1980s. The pro-democrats joined hand in pushing for greater democracy both in the transition period and after handover of Hong Kong in 1997. They also supported greater democracy in China and took the supporting role in the Tiananmen Square protest of 1989. The relationship between the pro-democrats and the Beijing government turned hostile after the Beijing's bloody crackdown on the protest and the pro-democrats were labelled \"treason\". After the 2004 Legislative Council election, the term \"pan-democracy camp\" (abbreviated \"pan-dems\") was more in use as more different parties and politicians from different political spectrums emerged.\n\nIn the 2016 Legislative Council election, the camp faced the challenge from the new localists who emerged after the Umbrella Revolution and ran under the banner of \"self-determination\" or Hong Kong independence. After the election, some localists joined the pro-democrats' caucus which rebranded itself as \"pro-democracy camp\".\n\nThe main goal of the pro-democracy camp is to achieve universal suffrage of the Chief Executive (CE) and the Legislative Council (LegCo) as guaranteed in Article 45 and Article 68 of the Basic Law respectively. Since the National People's Congress Standing Committee (NPCSC) 31 August 2014 decision that determined that Chief Executive candidate would be selected by a highly restrictive nominating committee which was seen as the betrayal of the democratic value, some democrats have raised the question of the right of self-determination. Yet, the mainstream pro-democrats remained their support of an autonomous Hong Kong under the \"One Country, Two Systems\" framework as promised by the Basic Law.\n\nThe pro-democrats generally embrace liberal values such as rule of law, human rights, civil liberties and social justice, yet their economic positions vary. Some pro-democrats position themselves in a more pro-labour position, such as the League of Social Democrats (LSD), the Labour Party and the Neighbourhood and Worker's Service Centre (NWSC), however most pro-democrats believe in a more egalitarian society. The pro-democracy camp generally support the Chinese democracy movement, in which it can trace back to their support of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. The pro-democrats have been calling for the end of one party rule of the Communist Party of China therefore are seen as threat to the Beijing authorities. Since the camp's idea of western-style liberal democracy would not be accepted easily by the Chinese government run by the Communist Party. In some cases, pan-democracy activists have been accused of high treason and as \"traitors to Han Chinese\".\n\nThe pro-democrats also divide themselves with different approaches of achieving democracy: the moderate democrats represented by the Democratic Party and the Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood (ADPL) believe in dialogue with Beijing and Hong Kong governments over struggle, while radical democrats such as the League of Social Democrats and the People Power believe in street actions and mass movements. There have been serve conflicts and distrust between the two factions and a great split after the constitutional reform voting in 2010, where the Democratic Party negotiated with the Beijing representatives and supported the modified reform proposal and was seen as a betrayal by the radical democrats.\n\nMembers of the camp include social workers and social activists emerged from the 1970s youth movements. Many of them grouped themselves as the \"social action faction\", competing against the pro-Communist Maoists in whom they disagreed with their ultra-nationalist and radical Maoist stances. Although claiming to be patriotic and launching the defend the Diaoyu Islands movement, the \"social action faction\" dedicated themselves into the local social issues in Hong Kong. They fought for the social inequality and livelihood issues, including the anti-corruption movement and Chinese Language movement and so forth. In the early 1980s when the question of Hong Kong sovereignty emerged, many of them supported a democratic autonomous Hong Kong under Chinese sovereignty, notably the Meeting Point which was founded in January 1983 which became the first political group to publicly support the Chinese sovereignty of Hong Kong.\n\nAfter the Sino-British Joint Declaration, the pro-democrats began to join hands to demand further democracy before and after 1997. In 1986, a number of political groups, activists, professionals and politicians joined hand under the banner of the Joint Committee on the Promotion of Democratic Government (JCPDG) demanding for 1988 direct elections for the Legislative Council and earlier universal suffrage for the Chief Executive and Legislative Council after 1997, as presented in the proposal of the Group of 190. Their arch rival at the time was the Group of 89, a group of conservative business and professional elites in the Hong Kong Basic Law Drafting Committee (HKBLDC) and Hong Kong Basic Law Consultative Committee (HKBLCC). They generally opposed the British colonial administration and its perceived \"kowtowing\" to the Beijing government over the issues such as constitutional reform, direct elections, civic rights and Daya Bay Nuclear Plant.\n\nThe pro-democrats maintained a relatively warm relationship with the Beijing government during the 1980s, as many of the pro-democrats supported the Chinese sovereignty in Hong Kong and the \"high degree of autonomy\" as ensured in the Sino-British Joint Declaration. They also saw the ideal of Hong Kong helping in China's Four Modernisations. The Beijing authorities also viewed the pro-democrats as the targets of the united front. Barrister Martin Lee and educator Szeto Wah, president of the Hong Kong Professional Teachers' Union, who were also the two most visible pro-democracy leaders, were appointed members of the Hong Kong Basic Law Drafting Committee in 1985 by Beijing.\n\nThe pro-democrats also participated in electoral politics as direct elections were introduced in local levels in the 1980s, namely the District Boards, Urban Council and Regional Council. Among them, the Meeting Point formed in 1983, the Hong Kong Affairs Society in 1985 and Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood in 1986 became the three major pro-democratic groups and formed a strategic alliance in the 1988 District Board elections, which laid the foundation of the pro-democracy grassroots supports.\n\nThe consolidation of its public support has its roots in opposition to the 1989 Tiananmen crackdown which aroused widespread horror, sympathy and support of the protesters by Hong Kong citizens. The pro-democrats, who were heavily involved in the protests and formed the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements in China (ADSPDMC or Alliance), were seen as \"treason\" and threat to the Beijing government. The two pro-democracy Basic Law Drafting Committee members, Martin Lee and Szeto Wah, were stripped from the office after they resigned in protest of the bloody crackdown, many of other pro-democrats were denied entry to the Mainland China since. Since 1989, the Alliance organise annual candlelight vigil for the June 4 crackdown at the Victoria Park, Hong Kong, which draw thousands of people every year. Ahead of the first direct election to the Legislative Council in 1991, around 600 democracy activists co-founded the first major pro-democracy party, the United Democrats of Hong Kong.\n\nThe electoral alliance of United Democrats of Hong Kong and Meeting Point, together with other smaller political parties, groups and independents, won a historical landslide victory in the 1991 election, took 17 out of the 18 geographical constituency seats. The pro-democrats were often considered strategic allies of Chris Patten, the last colonial governor who proposed a much progressive democratic reform in the last years before the handover of Hong Kong, despite Beijing's strong opposition. The Democrats supported Patten's proposal for the 1995 Legislative Council election. However, Emily Lau's full-scale direct election amendment was not passed as a result of Meeting Point's abstaining from voting for Emily Lau, which caused harsh criticism from the radical democrats and the United Ants. In 1994, the United Democrats and the Meeting Point merged into the Democratic Party, which won another landslide victory in the 1995 election, taking 19 seats in total, far ahead of other parties. Together with other democratic parties and individuals including Emily Lau, Lee Cheuk-yan and Leung Yiu-chung who later formed The Frontier in 1996 and Christine Loh who formed the Citizens Party in 1997, the pro-democrats gained a thin majority in the legislature for the last two years before 1997.\n\nThe Beijing government argued that the electoral reform introduced by Patten had violated the Joint Declaration and thus they no longer felt obliged to honour the promise of a \"through train\", a plan to keep the 1995 elected legislature into post-handover SAR era. A parallel Legislative Council, the Provisional Legislative Council, was formed in 1996 under the control of the Pro-Beijing camp, this became the Legislative Council upon the founding of the new SAR government in 1997, in which the pro-democrats except for the Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood boycotted it, deeming it as unconstitutional.\n\nAll of its members, except the Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood, declined to join the extralegal Provisional Legislative Council installed by the government of the People's Republic of China, and were ousted from the territory's legislature for a year until the 1998 election. Starting from the 1998 election, since the plurality electoral system was changed to proportional representation, compounded with the restoration of corporate votes in the functional constituencies, and replacement of broad-based functional constituencies with traditional ones, the number of seats of the camp dipped, albeit having similar share of vote. Within the camp, share of smaller parties and independents increased relatively, with the share of the Democratic Party falling from around two-thirds in 1995 to less than a half by 2004.\n\nThe pro-democracy camp was the strong opposition to the national security and anti-subversion legislation of the Basic Law Article 23 and they successfully called for over 500,000 people to protest on 1 July 2003 against the legislation, the largest demonstration since the handover. The pro-democrats received victories in the subsequent 2003 District Councils and 2004 Legislative Council elections. The barrister-formed Article 23 Concern Group formed by the pro-democracy lawyers, which transformed into Article 45 Concern Group, saw its member Audrey Eu, Alan Leong and Ronny Tong were elected in the 2004 election. In 2006, the group formed the middle class and professional oriented Civic Party. On the other hand, the left-wing radical group League of Social Democrats was formed in the same year by Trotskyist legislator Leung Kwok-hung and radical radio host Wong Yuk-man. As a result of the diversification of the pro-democracy elements, the use of \"pan-democrats\" gained in popularity, as it is typically meant to be non-denominational and all-inclusive.\n\nIn the 2007 Chief Executive election, Civic Party's Alan Leong successfully gained enough nominations to challenge the incumbent Chief Executive Donald Tsang, but he was not elected as expected due to the control of the Election Committee by the pro-Beijing camp. After the 2008 Legislative Council election, The Frontier merged into the Democratic Party and the convenor Emily Lau was elected vice chair of the party.\n\nDonald Tsang, the Chief Executive, promised to resolve the question of universal suffrage in his office during the election. He carried out the 2012 constitutional package in 2009 which was criticised by the pro-democracy as lack of genuine progress. The League of Social Democrats called for a \"de facto\" referendum, by way of the 2010 by-elections in five geographical constituencies. Civic Party, the second largest pro-democratic party joined, however the Democratic Party, the largest party, was reluctant to participate. The Democratic Party and other moderate democrats and pro-democracy scholars launched the Alliance for Universal Suffrage and started to engage with the mainland officials. The Democratic Party brought out a revised proposal of the package to Beijing and the revised proposal was passed in the Legislative Council in the support of the government and Pro-Beijing camp.\n\nHowever, it triggered a major split within the camp and also in the Democratic Party. The Young Turks including the LegCo member Andrew Cheng quit the party and formed the Neo Democrats. The Democratic Party was accused by the LSD and the radicals of betraying democracy and its supporters. On the matter of whether to coordinate with the moderate democrats in the 2011 District Council elections, the League of Social Democrats was suffered in the factional fighting and the two of the three LSD legislators left the party in disarray and formed the People Power. The People Power's campaign targeted pan-democracy parties in the 2011 District Council elections that had supported the reform package filled candidates to run against them but only won one seat of 62 contested.\n\nNevertheless, the People Power managed to win three seats in the 2012 Legislative Council election and the radical democrats of the (People Power and the League of Social Democrats) topped 264,000 votes, compared to the Civic Party's 255,000 and Democratic Party's 247,000 respectively. Despite the pan-democrats securing three of the five newly created, District Council (second) constituency seats the ratio of the vote share between the pan-democrats and the pro-Beijing camp narrowed significantly from the traditional 60% to 40%, to 55% to 45%.\n\nThe chairman of the Democratic Party Albert Ho represented the pan-democracy camp to run in the 2012 Chief Executive election. On election day the pan-democrats declined to vote for neither Henry Tang nor Leung Chun-ying and called for a blank vote from the electors.\n\nIn March 2013, all 27 democratic legislators formed the Alliance for True Democracy (ATD), replacing the Alliance for Universal Suffrage, to show solidarity of the camp to fight for genuine democracy. The ATD put forward a three-channel proposal for the 2017 Chief Executive election during the constitutional reform consultation in 2014. However, the decision of the National People's Congress Standing Committee (NPCSC) on 31 August ruled out the possibility for any candidate not endorsed by Beijing to be nominated for the election, which the pan-democrats accused as a betrayal of the principle of \"one person, one vote,\" The pan-democrats had supported legal scholar Benny Tai's Occupy Central plan of civil disobedience against Beijing's decision, which later turned into a 79-day occupy protest which often dubbed as \"Umbrella Revolution\". On 18 June 2015, all 27 pan-democrat legislators and Medical legislator Leung Ka-lau voted against the government's constitutional reform bill while the pro-Beijing legislators launched a failed walk-out. The bill was defeated by 28 against 8 for, barely meeting the quorum of 35.\n\nMany new political groups emerged from the Umbrella Revolution often distanced themselves from the pan-democrats. Many of whom, being labelled as \"localists\", criticised pan-democrats' failing in achieving democracy in the last 30 years. Many of them called for more \"militant\" tactics over pan-democrats' \"non-violent\" principles and \"China–Hong Kong separation\" over the some mainstream pan-democrats' mild \"Chinese nationalist sentiment\". Some of them also criticised pan-democrats' demand of the vindication of the 1989 Tiananmen protests, as pursued by the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements in China (HKASPDMC). There was also growing voice for Hong Kong independence from the Chinese rule, as many of whom deemed the \"One Country, Two Systems\" had failed.\n\nIn the 2016 Legislative Council election, localists with different banners together took away 19 per cent of the vote share from the pan-democrats, in which the traditional pan-democrats secured only 36 per cent, 21 less than the previous election. The non-establishment forces secured 30 out of the 70 seats, in which pan-democrats took 23 seats. After the election, the 27-member pro-democrats' caucus rebranded themselves into \"pro-democracy camp\" or \"G27\", as three backers of the \"self-determination\" of Hong Kong, namely Nathan Law, Lau Siu-lai and Eddie Chu joined the caucus. The \"G27\" soon became \"G26\" after Chu left the caucus shortly afterwards.\n\nIn the 2016 Election Committee subsector election, the pro-democrat coalition \"Democrats 300+\" scored a record victory in the Election Committee which was responsible for electing the 2017 Chief Executive. The democrats decided not to field their candidate in order to boost the chance of an alternative establishment candidate against incumbent Leung Chun-ying. After Leung announced he would not seek for re-election, the pro-democrats turned against Chief Secretary for Administration Carrie Lam who was seen as \"C.Y. 2.0\". The pro-democrats nominated former Financial Secretary John Tsang and retired judge Woo Kwok-hing amid the Liaison Office actively lobbied for Lam. Ahead of the election, some 98 per cent of the \"Democrats 300+\" coalition decided on voting for Tsang as he was the most popular candidate in the polls.\n\nOn 14 July 2017, Leung Kwok-hung of the League of Social Democrats, Nathan Law of the Demosisto, Yiu Chung-yim and Lau Siu-lai were unseated from the Legislative Council over their manners at the oath-taking ceremony at the inaugural meeting as a result of the legal action from the Leung Chun-ying government and the interpretation of the Hong Kong Basic Law by the National People's Congress Standing Committee (NPCSC), following the disqualification of two pro-independence legislators, Youngspiration's Baggio Leung and Yau Wai-ching.\n\nThe pro-democrats suffered a defeat in the by-election for four of the six vacancies on 11 March 2018, losing the Kowloon West geographical constituency and Architectural, Surveying, Planning and Landscape functional constituency to the pro-Beijing candidates. Yiu Ching-yim who contested in Kowloon West was defeated by Vincent Cheng of the DAB with a thin margin, making it the first time a pro-democrat lost in a single-member district election since the handover. The vote share of the pro-democrats also dropped from the traditional 55 per cent to only 47 per cent.\n\nThis list includes the political parties and groups currently represented in the Legislative Council:\nOther notable existing political parties without any representation in the Legislative Council include Demosistō, Hong Kong Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood and League of Social Democrats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1041011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1041011", "title": "Raymond Damadian", "text": "Raymond Damadian\n\nRaymond Vahan Damadian (born March 16, 1936) is an American physician, medical practitioner, and inventor of the first MR (Magnetic Resonance) Scanning Machine.\n\nDamadian's research into sodium and potassium in living cells led him to his first experiments with nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) which caused him to first propose the MR body scanner in 1969. Damadian discovered that tumors and normal tissue can be distinguished in vivo by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) because of their prolonged relaxation times, both T (spin-lattice relaxation) or T (spin-spin relaxation). Damadian was the first to perform a full body scan of a human being in 1977 to diagnose cancer. Damadian invented an apparatus and method to use NMR safely and accurately to scan the human body, a method now well known as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).\n\nDamadian has received several prizes. In 2001, the Lemelson-MIT Prize Program bestowed its $100,000 Lifetime Achievement Award on Damadian as \"the man who invented the MRI scanner.\" He went on to collaborate with Wilson Greatbach, one early developer of the implantable pacemaker, to develop an MRI-compatible pacemaker. The Franklin Institute in Philadelphia gave its recognition of Damadian's work on MRI with the Bower Award in Business Leadership. He was also named Knights of Vartan 2003 \"Man of the Year\". He received a National Medal of Technology in 1988 and was inducted in the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 1989.\n\nDamadian was born in New York, to an Armenian family, Vahan and Odette (née Yazedjian). He earned his bachelor's degree in mathematics from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1956, and an M.D. degree from the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York City in 1960. He studied the violin at Juilliard for 8 years, and played in Junior Davis Cup tennis competitions.\n\nHe met his future wife, Donna Terry, while he had a job as a tennis coach. She invited him to the 1957 Billy Graham crusade at Madison Square Garden, and he responded to the altar call. Raymond and Donna married a year after he finished medical school, and they had three children. Raymond says that he first became interested in detecting cancer when, as a boy of 10, he saw his maternal grandmother, with whom he was very close, die painfully of breast cancer.\n\nDamadian's early work on NMR concerned investigating potassium ions inside cells. He found that the potassium relaxation times were much shorter compared with aqueous solutions of potassium ions. This suggested that potassium was not free but complexed to ‘fixed-charge’ counter-ions, as he had previously determined.\n\nHe and other researchers independently investigated the signals of H NMR in cells, and found that the relaxation times were much shorter than in distilled water. This was consistent with ordering of a large part of the water by adsorption onto macromolecular surfaces. Damadian predicted that cancerous cells would have longer relaxation times, both because of the disordering of malignant cells and because of their elevated potassium levels, since the potassium ions would be ‘structure-breaking’ to the ordered water fraction.\n\nIn a 1971 paper in the journal \"Science\", SUNY Downstate Medical Center professor Damadian reported that tumors can be detected in vivo by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) because of much longer relaxation times than normal tissue. He suggested that these differences could be used to detect cancer, even in the early stages where it would be most treatable, though later research would find that these differences, while real, are too variable for diagnostic purposes. However, Damadian in his seminal paper claimed only that his method was a \"detection\" tool, making no claim about being a diagnostic tool, but intended that it would provide a non-invasive way of detecting cancers and monitoring the effectiveness of their therapy.\n\nAccording to a \"Wall Street Journal\" article, Damadian's initial methods were flawed for practical use, relying on a point-by-point scan of the entire body and using relaxation rates, which turned out to not be an effective indicator of cancerous tissue. However, the same article pointed out, “Nevertheless, his observation of T and T differences in cancerous tissue was a Eureka moment for Paul Lauterbur.” Furthermore, Damadian's seminal paper documented in its Table 2 that T relaxation times were different, beyond experimental uncertainty, across all his samples over different healthy tissues: rectus muscle, liver, stomach, small intestine, kidney, and brain. This showed the way to accurate imaging of the body's soft tissues for the first time; X-ray imaging was severely deficient for soft tissue analysis because the difference in absorption was so small (<4%). \nSo when in the court case Fonar v. General Electric, GE's attorneys made the same claim that relaxations times were also prolonged in non-cancerous tissue, so were not a good diagnostic, Fonar's attorneys responded that it was unfair to punish Damadian because his methods detected even \"more\" features than he had intended. Indeed, even today, 90% of MRI scans on patients produce images that are relaxation dependent, either T- or T-dependent images.\nIn 1974, he received the first patent in the field of MRI when he patented the concept of NMR for detecting cancer after filing an application in 1972—now there are over 4,500 patents on MRI. As the National Science Foundation notes, “The patent included the idea of using NMR to ‘scan’ the human body to locate cancerous tissue.” However, it did not describe a method for generating pictures from such a scan or precisely how such a scan might be done. But without Damadian's discovery of the profound sensitivity of the relaxation time to different tissue types and malignant tissue, there would be no picture at all.\nIn the 1950s, Herman Carr reported creating a one-dimensional MR image. Prompted by Damadian's report on the potential medical uses of NMR, Paul Lauterbur expanded on Carr's technique and developed a way to generate the first MRI images, in 2D and 3D, using gradients. Peter Mansfield from the University of Nottingham then developed a mathematical technique that would allow scans to take seconds rather than hours and produce clearer images than Lauterbur had. While Lauterbur and Mansfield focused on animals and human limbs, Damadian built the first full-body MRI machine and produced the first full magnetic resonance imaging (\"MRI\") scan of the human body, albeit using a “focused field” technique that differs considerably from modern imaging. In recording the history of MRI, Mattson and Simon (1996) credit Damadian with describing the concept of whole-body NMR scanning, as well as discovering the NMR tissue relaxation differences that made this feasible.\n\nOn July 3, 1977, the first MRI body exam was performed on a human being (the first human scan was performed by Peter Mansfield's team in Nottingham a year earlier, on fellow author Andrew Maudsley’s finger). It took almost five hours to produce one image: a 106-voxel point-by-point scan of Larry Minkoff's thorax. The images were rudimentary by modern standards. Damadian, along with colleagues Larry Minkoff and Michael Goldsmith took seven years to reach this point. They named their original machine “Indomitable” to capture the spirit of their struggle to do what many said could not be done, though no systems would ever use Damadian's method. His technique of imaging was never made into a practically usable method and has therefore never been used in MR imaging as we know it today.\n\nHis patent followed on the heels of rumors already floating throughout the scientific community of Lauterbur's proposed idea of using NMR \"in vivo\" (still in the human body, an imaging device). However, in 1969, Damadian had previously proposed NMR as a method for external scanning of internal cancers in the body, i.e. \"in vivo\":\n\nThough it would later turn out to be irreproducible, in his 1971 \"Science\" paper, Damadian showed different NMR signals for tumors and different tissue types:\n\nThis was clearly influential, as Lauterbur wrote in 1986:\n\nThus it was the discovery of strongly variant relaxation times that led to Lauterbur's quest to represent these relaxation time differences graphically. Without these differences, unknown until Damadian's work, there would be nothing to make an image with. Hence a book on MRI history, which included chapters on both Damadian and Lauterbur, Chapter 8 entitled, “Raymond V. Damadian: Originator of the Concept of Whole-Body NMR Scanning (MRI) and Discoverer of the NMR Tissue Relaxation Differences That Made It Possible.” The book pointed out the importance of both men:\n\nDamadian's machine is now in the Smithsonian Institution. As late as 1982, there were a handful of MRI scanners in the entire United States; today there are thousands.\n\nIn 1978, Damadian formed his own company, Fonar (which stood for \"Field Focused Nuclear Magnetic Resonance\"), for the production of MRI scanners, and in 1980, he produced the first commercial one. Damadian's \"focused field\" technology proved less effective than Lauterbur's gradient approach. His scanner, named \"Indomitable,\" failed to sell. Fonar eventually abandoned Damadian's technique in favour of the methods adopted by Lauterbur and Mansfield. Damadian and Fonar enforced the royalties on patents held by Damadian. They settled with many large companies, but a case against General Electric went to the Federal Circuit, which upheld a $129 million ruling against GE for violation of Damadian's patents. Damadian says that the judgment money has all been put back into Fonar for research and development purposes.\n\nDamadian is the company's largest shareholder, with 8% of stock worth $6.5 million. Despite owning only 8% of the stock, he maintains almost 100% control of the company through a separate class of shares (Class C) that only Damadian controls 2007. Damadian later collaborated with Wilson Greatbatch, one early developer of the implantable pacemaker, to develop an MRI-compatible pacemaker. He invented a stand-up MRI system and has 15 MRI scanning centers across the United States. There are a number of independent MRI centers that use this technology both in the U.S. and around the world. The company conceived and built the world's first Upright Multi-Positional MRI, which was recognized as The Invention of the Year in 2007 by the Intellectual Properties Owners Association Education Foundation.\n\nIn the February 4, 2014 Bill Nye–Ken Ham debate, Damadian was one of the scientists who recorded themselves on video professing a belief in young Earth creationism for Answers in Genesis president Ken Ham to cite. Damadian promoted Answers in Genesis, belief in a young earth, and his Christian faith in other occasions, including in his co-authored 2015 book \"Gifted Mind\".\n\nDamadian received a National Medal of Technology in 1988 and was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 1989. His original MRI full-body scanner was given to the Smithsonian Institution in the 1980s and is now on loan and on display at the National Inventors Hall of Fame in Ohio. In 2001, the Lemelson-MIT Prize Program bestowed its $100,000 Lifetime Achievement Award on Damadian as \"the man who invented the MRI scanner.\" \n\nThe Franklin Institute in Philadelphia gave its recognition of Damadian's work on MRI with the Bower Award in Business Leadership. He was named the Knights of Vartan 2003 \"Man of the Year.\" In September 2003, he was honored with the Innovation Award in Bioscience from \"The Economist\".\n\nIn 2003, the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded to Paul Lauterbur and Sir Peter Mansfield for their discoveries related to MRI. Although Nobel rules allow for the award to be shared by up to three recipients, Damadian was not given the prize. The controversy over who played what part in the development of the MRI had gone on for years prior to the Nobel announcement, and many in the scientific community felt that the Nobel had not been awarded for the MRI for so long due to debate over Damadian's role in its development.\n\nDamadian said that credit should go to \"me, and then Lauterbur,\" and Lauterbur felt that only he should get credit. In 1997 the National Academy of Sciences commissioned a timeline of MRI milestones, and four of the 12 in an initial draft were attributed to Damadian. At the final publication in 2001, longer than any other publication in the series had ever been taken, none of the milestones were attributed to Damadian. The text said that Damadian's methods had \"not proved clinically reliable in detecting or diagnosing cancer.\" After Damadian's lawyers sent the NAS a threatening letter, the text on the NAS website was revised, but not to Damadian's satisfaction. Damadian said in 2002, \"If I had not been born, would MRI have existed? I don't think so. If Lauterbur had not been born? I would have gotten there. Eventually.\"\n\nThe \"New York Times\" wrote:The issue has been the subject of a dispute between Dr. Damadian and Dr. Lauterbur and has been known for years in academic circles, with some fearing that the Nobel committee would steer clear of magnetic resonance imaging altogether because of the Swedes' supposed distaste for controversial discoveries. Dr. Lauterbur, 74, is not in good health, and the committee may have decided that its prize, which cannot be given posthumously, needed to be awarded for the discovery now or never.\".\n\nAfter the announcement of Lauterbur and Mansfield's Nobels, between October and November 2003, an ad hoc group called \"The Friends of Raymond Damadian\" (formed by Damadian's company FONAR) took out full-page advertisements in \"The New York Times\" twice, \"The Washington Post\", \"The Los Angeles Times\" and one of the largest newspapers in Sweden, \"Dagens Nyheter\" protesting his exclusion with the headline \"The Shameful Wrong That Must Be Righted\" in an attempt to get the Nobel Committee to change its mind and grant him a share of the Prize. \n\nDamadian suggested that Lauterbur and Mansfield should have rejected the Nobel Prize unless Damadian was given joint recognition. Supporting Damadian were various MRI experts including John Throck Watson, Eugene Feigelson, V. Adrian Parsegian, David Stark and James Mattson. \"New York Times\" columnist Horace Freeland Judson criticised this behavior, noting that there is \"no Nobel Prize for whining\" and that many deserving candidates who may have had better claims than Damadian, such as Lise Meitner, Oswald Avery and Jocelyn Bell, had been previously denied a share of the Nobel. However, he had to admit that Erwin Chargaff, whose two rules were instrumental in the discovery of DNA's structure, was very vocal about his omission, and Fred Hoyle was irate about Jocelyn Bell's exclusion.\n\nOthers point out that while Damadian had hypothesized that NMR relaxation times might be used to detect cancer, he did not develop (nor did he suggest) the current way of creating images. Since the Nobel Prize was awarded to Lauterbur and Mansfield for the development of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance \"Imaging\", Damadian's exclusion makes more sense. Some felt that research scientists sided with Lauterbur because he was one of their own, while Damadian was a physician who had profited greatly from his early patents. Charles Springer, an expert in MRI at Oregon Health and Science University, said that if a poll was taken of the academic community, most would agree with the Nobel Committee's conclusions. And Mansfield wrote in his autobiography that \"the person who really missed out\" the prize was Erwin Hahn for his contribution to the principles of spin echoes.\n\nChemist George Kauffman argued that Damadian deserved the Nobel:\nUndoubtedly, both Damadian and Lauterbur made major contributions to MRI imaging and scanning. Without Damadian’s relaxation discoveries that showed sharp discrimination between tissues and particularly a serious disease like cancer, there would have been no reason to entertain or even consider a method for displaying the relaxation differences so that they could be visualized as an image. Furthermore, except for the relaxation differences discovered by Damadian, there would be no reason to expect that such an image would show anything, i.e., that any tissue NMR contrast existed with which to make an image.\nScience and technology are two distinctly different enterprises. Science is the branch of knowledge dedicated to compiling factual information and understanding natural phenomena. It precedes technology, and technology cannot advance without it. Without science’s new knowledge of natural phenomena, technology’s new methods for exploiting and taking advantage of nature’s secrets cannot be created. The new scientific information is necessarily the first step.\nMoreover, there is no doubt that Damadian’s seminal discovery preceded Lauterbur’s developments. \n\nPhilosopher Michael Ruse writing for the Metanexus Institute suggested that Damadian might have been denied a Nobel prize because of his creationist views, saying:\nI cringe at the thought that Raymond Damadian was refused his just honor because of his religious beliefs. Having silly ideas in one field is no good reason to deny merit for great ideas in another field. Apart from the fact that this time the Creation Scientists will think that there is good reason to think that they are the objects of unfair treatment at the hands of the scientific community.\n\nDamadian himself said, \"Before this happened, nobody ever said to me 'They will not give you the Nobel Prize for Medicine because you are a creation scientist'. If people were actively campaigning against me because of that, I never knew it.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39434084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39434084", "title": "Republican Party of Virginia convention, 2013", "text": "Republican Party of Virginia convention, 2013\n\nThe 2013 Republican Party of Virginia convention was the process by which the Republican Party of Virginia selected its nominees for the offices Governor, Lieutenant Governor, and Attorney General for the 2013 general election in November. The convention was held on May 17 and 18, 2013, in the state capital of Richmond at the Richmond Coliseum.\n\nKen Cuccinelli's de facto nomination for governor was confirmed by acclamation at the convention. There were seven candidates for lieutenant governor; after an epic ten-hour, four-ballot battle, E.W. Jackson emerged as the nominee in an upset over better-funded candidates. Mark Obenshain narrowly defeated Rob Bell for the attorney general nomination.\n\nIn 2008, incumbent Lt. Governor Bill Bolling made a deal with then-Attorney General Bob McDonnell whereby McDonnell would run for governor and Bolling would run for re-election as lieutenant governor in 2009, and then Bolling would receive McDonnell's support for his own candidacy for governor in 2013. The deal was widely known and as such, Bolling was effectively running for Governor since 2009, and in April 2010, Bolling filed the necessary paperwork to run in 2013. Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli, elected alongside McDonnell and Bolling in 2009, stated that he intended to run for re-election as attorney general in 2013, but did not rule out running for Governor. In December 2011, Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli told his staff that he would run against Bolling for governor in 2013; the news went public, and in response, Bolling issued a statement accusing Cuccinelli of putting \"his own personal ambition ahead of the best interests of the commonwealth and the Republican Party.\" This infuriated Bolling and set up a primary. Cuccinelli's announcement came two days before the annual statewide conference of Virginia Republicans, at which Bolling and his staff expressed being upset with Cuccinelli's decision.\n\nIn June 2012, the party's State Central Committee, which had new members since the committee previously voted to hold a primary, reversed course and voted 47-31 to select a nominee via convention in 2013, igniting much controversy among party members. The switch was a major blow to Bolling's candidacy, as Cuccinelli supporters were more ardent and involved in the party and thus more willing to travel to a day-long convention. Proponents of the reversal said a convention would prevent Democrats from meddling in the selection (Virginia does not register voters by party, making primaries open to voters regardless of party). Primaries are also run by the State Board of Elections and taxpayer funded; proponents said a convention, which is funded by the party, would save the state money. Convention proponents also argued that nominees selected by convention historically perform better in the general election than nominees selected by primary, and that conventions allow candidates to present their cases within the party, preventing candidates from tearing each other down via negative advertising seen by the general electorate. Opponents of the reversal said a convention would disenfranchise military voters who are unable to physically attend a convention, and would cost the party too much money. Bolling called the switch \"unprecedented and unfair\".\n\nOn November 28, 2012, Bolling withdrew from the race, in a \"recognition of how difficult it would be [for him] to win the nomination\", making Cuccinelli the de facto nominee.\n\nThe lieutenant governor of Virginia is a part-time role and has historically been a largely ceremonial post, with the primary responsibility being breaking the rare 20-20 tie in the 40-member Senate of Virginia. The office is also seen as a stepping stone to the office of governor. However, the practical importance of the office increased dramatically after the 2011 state Senate elections created an evenly divided Senate with 20 Republicans and 20 Democrats, making the lieutenant governor's tiebreaking power critical and determining which party holds control of the Senate.\n\nAfter the 2011 elections, there was much speculation as to who the nominee for the office would be, since Bolling was vacating the seat. Potential candidates who considered bids but did not run included Mark Obenshain, former GOP congressional nominee Keith Fimian, and state Sen. Jeff McWaters. Obenshain ended up running for attorney general; Fimian began raising money but decided not to run for the sake of his family; and speculation on McWaters waned and he never entered the race.\n\nThe field began taking shape in mid-2012. Prince William County Board of Supervisors Chairman Corey Stewart was the first to enter the race, announcing his bid in April 2012. State Sen. Steve Martin of Chesterfield announced he was running in June 2012 (on the same day that he filled in for Bolling in presiding over a pro forma session of the Senate). State Delegate Scott Lingamfelter also joined the race in June 2012. Stafford County Board of Supervisors Chairwoman Susan Stimpson announced her run in August 2012. Former delegate and state senator Jeannemarie Devolites Davis filed her paperwork to run in September 2012. Northern Virginia businessman and director of the state Republican 2012 election efforts Pete Snyder entered the race in November 2012. Attorney and pastor E.W. Jackson of Chesapeake rounded out the field, announcing he was running in December 2012 at the annual conference of state Republicans.\n\nCuccinelli's run for governor meant the attorney general's office was open in 2013. Within two weeks, three candidates announced bids for the office in 2013. State Sen. Mark Obenshain of Harrisonburg announced he was exploring a run on December 2, 2011, shortly after Cuccinelli announced he was running for governor, and formally entered the race nearly a year later in November 2012. On December 6, 2011, Delegate Rob Bell of Charlottesville entered the race. Fairfax County Circuit Court Clerk John Frey entered the race the next day. Frey dropped out in November 2012, saying his opponents had spent more time campaigning across the state than he did.\n\n\nCuccinelli became the de facto nominee in January 2013, as Bolling had withdrawn and no other candidate filed for the Republican nomination by the deadline.\n\n\n\nThe convention was called to order on the afternoon of May 17, 2013. Rules for the convention, which were previously released, were adopted, and the convention then recessed.\n\nThe rules required a full 50% + 1 vote majority to win the nomination in each race. Multiple ballots were anticipated for the lieutenant governor race, as none of the seven candidates were expected to reach a majority so quickly. Only one ballot was required for attorney general. In the lieutenant governor balloting, if no candidate reached a majority after the first ballot, the bottom two candidates with the least votes would be eliminated, and five candidates would be on the second ballot. On the second ballot, the bottom two would be eliminated, and three candidates would be on the third ballot. If no candidate reached a majority after the third ballot, the third candidate would be eliminated, and the two remaining candidates would be on the fourth and final ballot.\n\nThe convention was called back to order on the morning of May 18, 2013. Cuccinelli was formally nominated by acclamation as thousands of delegates roared \"aye\" on the motion to nominate him for governor. In his acceptance speech, Cuccinelli stressed his record, contrasting his years of public service in Virginia with his Democratic opponent Terry McAuliffe's career. He rolled out a vision including specific calls for reforms of the tax code, education, and regulations.\n\nAccording to the rules, candidates for lieutenant governor and attorney general were allotted seven minutes each to speak before the delegates. The most notable speech was that of E.W. Jackson, who electrified the crowd in an impassioned speech in which he rejected the label of \"African-American\", declaring, \"I am not an African-American, I am an American! I am tired of the hyphenation. No more hyphenation!\" He also vowed to \"get the government off our backs, off our property, out of our families, out of our health care and out of our way.\"\n\nObenshain defeated Bell on the first ballot by a margin of 55%-45%. After the ballots were counted, Bell came to the podium and motioned to withdraw his candidacy and nominate Obenshain for attorney general. Obenshain was then nominated by acclamation. Obenshain's nomination came 35 years after his father, Richard D. Obenshain, received the Republican nomination for the United States Senate on the same stage at the Richmond Coliseum in May 1978. Richard Obenshain was killed in a plane crash a few months after his nomination. Mark Obenshain was joined by his mother, Richard's widow, on the stage to accept the nomination.\n\nChaos and conflicting statements went around the convention during the second, third, and fourth ballots in what appeared to be a stop-Jackson movement by the Snyder campaign. Snyder received the endorsements of tea party activist Jamie Radtke, and from Lingamfelter after his elimination, during balloting, which the campaign posted on flyers around the Coliseum. In the fourth round of balloting, flyers were distributed on the floor falsely claiming that Cuccinelli, Obenshain, and Stewart endorsed Snyder for the fourth ballot. All three of those campaigns denounced the flyers, and Stewart endorsed Jackson, even taking a lap around the floor with him to show his support.\n\nShortly after 10:00 pm EDT, after eight hours of voting and four ballots, Pete Snyder went to the stage and motioned to withdraw his candidacy and nominate E.W. Jackson for lieutenant governor by acclamation. After a loud \"aye\" from the delegates, Jackson took to the stage, and after a short victory speech, was joined by Cuccinelli and Obenshain, as the 2013 Republican ticket was presented. \n\nConvention voting used a weighted vote system in which votes were allocated to local city or county unit committees based on their city's or county's population. Each vote cast could be worth more or less than one weighted vote depending on how many votes were cast from that unit.\n\nObenshain won the attorney general race with 55% of both the weighted vote and the raw vote. Per the rules, Davis and Martin were eliminated after the first ballot as they placed sixth and seventh, respectively, out of seven candidates.\n\nPer the rules, Stimpson and Lingamfelter were eliminated after the second ballot, as they placed fourth and fifth, respectively, out of five candidates. Stimpson and Stewart actually received more raw, or popular, votes than Snyder, who placed second, but Snyder received a higher weighted vote count. (Stewart received the votes of 1,297 delegates, Stimpson received the votes of 1,232 delegates, and Snyder received the votes of 1,196 delegates. However, Snyder received more weighted votes.)\nPer the rules, Stewart was eliminated after the third ballot, as he received the fewest votes.\n"}
{"id": "20105779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20105779", "title": "Retirement slump", "text": "Retirement slump\n\nRetirement slump refers to the average falloff in the party’s vote when the incumbent retires. A positive value of the sophomore surge represents an incumbency advantage. The retirement slump should be positive for an incumbency advantage to exist.\n\nSophomore surge is the average vote gain for freshman winners in election 1 who run again in election 2. Retirement slump is the average vote loss for the parties whose candidates won election 1 and did not run in election 2.\n\nWhen a Sophomore surge and a Retirement slump combine, it is what is called a slurge.\n"}
{"id": "7502597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7502597", "title": "Richard Cizik", "text": "Richard Cizik\n\nRichard Cizik is President of the New Evangelical Partnership for the Common Good. He was the Vice President for Governmental Affairs of the National Association of Evangelicals (NAE) and one of the most prominent Evangelical lobbyists in the United States. In his position with the NAE, Cizik's primary responsibilities were setting the organization's policy on issues and lobbying the White House, Congress, and the Supreme Court. Cizik also served as NAE's national spokesman and edited a monthly magazine, \"NAE Washington Insight\". Since 2003, Cizik has been active in a type of environmentalism known as \"creation care\"; his stance on global warming has drawn both support and criticism from fellow Evangelicals. He serves on the Board of Advisors of the Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions.\n\nIn 2008, he and Nobel Prize winner Eric Chivian, as a team, were named one of the 100 most influential scientists and thinkers by \"Time\". On December 11, 2008, Cizik gave his resignation from his position with NAE after a December 2 radio broadcast of NPR's Fresh Air in which he voiced support for same-sex civil unions. His comments and his resignation has generated both strong support and strong criticism within the evangelical Christian community.\n\nIn January 2010, Cizik launched the New Evangelical Partnership for the Common Good together with David P. Gushee, professor of Christian Ethics at Mercer University, and Steve Martin, a pastor and documentary filmmaker. The faith-based non-profit, which represents the merger of the previously distinct but sometimes interrelated efforts of the three founding partners, reportedly exists \"to advance human well-being as an expression of our love for Jesus Christ, which is itself a grateful response to his love for us and for a good but suffering world.\"\n\nCizik graduated with a B.A., cum laude, in political science from Whitworth College, received an M.A. in Public Affairs from the George Washington University School of Public & International Affairs (now called the Elliot School of International Affairs), a Master of Divinity from Denver Seminary and an honorary doctorate in Christian Leadership from the Methodist Episcopal Church.\n\nOn May 18, 2014, Whitworth University, awarded Cizik an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters. The University's Provost stated that \"Richard Cizik, an alumnus from the class of 1973, is a pastor, writer, environmentalist, thinker, and activist...For his commitment to truth and to the Lordship of Jesus Christ, to the health of our planet and the well-being of humanity, and in recognition of his strength of purpose and his courage in speaking out on crucial issues as a thoughtful and fully committed man of God, I am proud to represent Whitworth University as we confer upon Richard Cizik this degree of doctor of humane letters, honoris causa.\"\n\nHe was awarded a post-graduate fellowship from the Scottish Rite Foundation to study at the George Washington University (1973-1974) and by the Rotary International Foundation to study at the Political Science University in Taipei, Taiwan (1975-1976). Cizik sits on advisory boards of the Institute on Religion and Public Policy, the Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions at Duke University, and the Evangelical Environmental Network.\n\nCizik was named in 2006 by Beliefnet to be one of the \"Most Inspirational\" leaders of the year.\n\nIn 2007, Virginia Governor Tim Kaine named Cizik to the Virginia Climate Commission. That appointment has led to his speaking on climate change at the University of Virginia, Eastern Mennonite University, Roanoke College, among many other universities around the country.\n\nFast Company magazine named him in 2008 to a list of \"Most Creative Thinkers.\" He was named an Open Society Fellow of the Open Society Institute in 2009-2010, during which time he built relationships between scholars and activists on topics such as war and peace, climate change, and criminal justice.\n\nIn 2010, he was named to a list of \"Fifty Evangelical Leaders Who Shaped a Generation: The Renegade,\" by Roof Top Blog, WordPress and appeared in the acclaimed documentary on nuclear arms, directed by Lucy Walker and distributed by Participant Media, entitled \"Countdown To Zero.\" Cizik has subsequently been a regular participant in Global Zero gatherings, including Summits held in London, England, and the Ronald Reagan Library in Simi Valley, California, and as a speaker at the Global Zero Inaugural Conference, held in Paris, in December, 2008.\n\nIn 2010, Cizik helped create and serves as co-chair of \"The Casablanca Institute\" to foster interfaith dialogue, build relationships between Evangelical Christians and Muslim leaders, and to seek common ground on the major issues facing both religious constituencies and the planet. In 2013, the Casablanca Institute was named one of the top ten \"Best New Think Tanks\" in a global ranking called \"Global Go To Think Tank Rankings.\n\nCizik was a staff member at the NAE from 1980 to 2008. He described himself in the early years as a \"pro-Bush conservative\" and generally took conservative positions on issues such as gay marriage, abortion, and stem-cell research. As the organization's primary lobbyist, Cizik was influential in pushing conservative Evangelical-supported legislation at a national level. However, he began moving more towards the center in the 1990s.\n\nAs national spokesman for millions of evangelicals, he has worked successfully with both Democrats and Republicans. In the fall of 2008, however, he began to publicly criticize John McCain (\"I thought John McCain was a principled person,\" \"But John McCain...seems to be waffling on issue after issue\"). He voted for Barack Obama during the primaries, and strongly implied that he had voted for Obama in the general election. This, along with statements about abortion and same-sex civil unions, did not represent the NAE's position, and he resigned a week later.\n\nAfter hearing scientist and fellow Evangelical John Houghton present evidence on global warming in 2002, Cizik was convinced that environmentalism, and especially climate change, should be a part of the Evangelical political agenda.\n\nCizik calls this environmentalism \"creation care.\" He differentiates \"creation care\" from other environmentalism because of the former's roots \"not in politics or ideology, but in the scriptures.\" Cizik cites several Bible verses to support his position, including Genesis 2:15 and Revelation 11:18.\n\nCizik has been criticized for his global warming advocacy by fellow evangelicals and conservatives. He has responded to some of these critics by asking whether his critics are possibly being influenced by ties to the conservative movement or oil and gas companies.\n\nCizik's name appeared as a signatory on an initial draft of the 2006 Evangelical Climate Initiative's \"Call to Action,\" but it was absent from the final draft. In an interview with Bill Moyers, Cizik indicated that pressure from his colleagues at the NAE caused him to remove his name from the statement. In fact the Executive Committee, responding to twenty Evangelical leaders who asked the NAE not to take a stance on global warming, had passed a resolution stating that \"global warming is not a consensus issue\" and instructing its staff \"to stand by and not exceed in any fashion our approved and adopted statements concerning the environment contained within the Evangelical Call to Civic Responsibility.\" (The 2001 document, \"For the Health of the Nation: An Evangelical Call to Civic Responsibility\", includes a section on \"protect[ing] God's creation\" but does not mention climate change.)\n\nIn January 2007, Cizik and Eric Chivian co-hosted the launch of a collaboration between scientists and Evangelicals, presenting it as a joint project of Harvard Medical School's Center for Health and the Global Environment and the NAE. The 28 participants released \"An Urgent Call to Action,\" which presented human-induced climate change as a primary concern and called for prompt public policy solutions. Critics of the collaboration pointed out that the NAE had not changed its position on climate change, but in response to a reporter's question Cizik insisted that the NAE board had approved \"this dialogue.\"\n\nIn March 2007, James Dobson, head of Focus on the Family, and 24 other evangelical leaders signed a letter asking \"the NAE board to ensure that Mr. Cizik faithfully represents the policies and commitments of the organization, including its defense of traditional values,\" and suggesting that Cizik resign \"if he cannot be trusted to articulate the views of American evangelicals on environmental issues.\" A number of other evangelical leaders declined to sign Dobson's letter on the grounds that it was un-Christian. Richard Land of the Southern Baptist Convention noted, \"I didn't feel that it was the most productive, most redemptive way to address the problem,\" and Leith Anderson, NAE president, stated that his mail was \"overwhelmingly supportive of Rich.\" Cizik has responded by saying that \"It's time we return to being people known for our love and care of the earth and our fellow human beings.\"\n\nIn December 2008, NAE President Leith Anderson reiterated that \"For the Health of the Nation\" contains the NAE's only official position on the environment, and confirmed that \"we don't [have a specific position] on global warming or emissions. [Cizik] has spoken as an individual on that.\"\n\nIn 2008, TIME magazine named Richard Cizik and Eric Chivian to its list of most influential \"Thinkers and Scientists\" list called the \"TIME 100.\"\n\nIn 2012, Rich Cizik became the Chief Spokesperson for the Good Steward Campaign, an ecumenically Christian environmental organization working on college campuses to inform and engage students in conversations about climate change, stewardship, creation care, and fossil fuel divestment. Rich travels up and down the East Coast doing speaking events for the Good Steward Campaign and spoken at schools like the University of Virginia and Eastern Mennonite University. He continues in this role today.\n\nCizik supported the passage of Proposition 8 and recently signed his name to a full-page ad in \"The New York Times\"' accusing the gay population of \"anti-religious bigotry\", especially against Mormons, and \"trying to start a religious war.\" In response, a gay rights group placed another full-page advertisement in \"The Salt Lake Tribune\" titled \"Lies in the name of the Lord\" and featuring Pinocchio carrying a whitewashed \"Cizik Version\" of the Bible.\n\nCizik made a statement on the National Public Radio program \"Fresh Air\" in December 2008 in which he said that he supports same-sex civil unions and is “shifting” on gay marriage. He also commented that about 4 in 10 young evangelicals have a homosexual, bisexual, or transsexual friend or family member and about 5 in 10 favor either same-sex marriage or civil unions. Cizik later appeared to shift his position, releasing a statement reading: \"I am now and always have been committed to work to pass laws that protect and foster family life, and to work against government attempts to interfere with the integrity of the family, including same-sex 'marriage' and civil unions.\" However, in a return visit to \"Fresh Air\" in July 2010, Cizik reiterated his support for same-sex civil unions and expressed his ambivalence about same-sex marriage. His NPR remarks led Cizik to resign from his position with the NAE.\n\nCizik's statements found support by some older evangelicals such as Jim Wallis and by many younger evangelicals, some of which ABC News says consider Cizik as a \"hero\". In contrast, the NAE stated that Ciziks' positions do not \"appropriately represent the values and convictions\" of the NAE. David Brody, Christian Broadcasting Network correspondent, commented on the divided reaction by saying that \"At the end of the day, evangelicals are not going to budge on the life and marriage issues.\"\n\nCizik has described himself as an \"advocate for pro-life policies without exception.\" He supports government distribution of contraception. He has stated that \"younger evangelicals [...] are decidedly pro-life\" and that \"health care is just as important to younger evangelicals as is abortion.\" Cizik also conceived and helped draft the definite statement on evangelical support for family planning in 2012 entitled \"A Christian Call to Common Ground on Family Planning, Maternal and Children's Health and Abortion Reduction\" released at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. on October 15, 2012.\n\nOn December 24, 2012 Newsweek wrote in a piece entitled \"Can Safe Sex Save the Earth?\" that \"If his ouster [National Association of Evangelicals] was meant to silence him, it didn't work.\" And that \"Cizik has also made the case that access to contraceptives is not only good for people, but also, since it helps curb overpopulation, good for the planet. On his blog, he calls family planning a “green technology.”\n\n"}
{"id": "992832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=992832", "title": "Runglish", "text": "Runglish\n\nRunglish, Rusinglish, Ruglish or Russlish (, \"rusinglish\" / \"runglish\"), is a Russian–English macaronic language. \n\nThe term \"runglish\" was popularized in 2000 as a name for one of the languages aboard the International Space Station. Cosmonaut Sergei Krikalyov said: \"We say jokingly that we communicate in 'Runglish,' a mixture of Russian and English languages, so that when we are short of words in one language we can use the other, because all the crew members speak both languages well.\" NASA has since begun listing Runglish as one of the on-board languages. Although less widespread than other pidgins and creoles, such as Tok Pisin, Runglish is spoken in a number of English-Russian communities, most notably the Russian-speaking community of Brighton Beach in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nSome notable novels have foreshadowed the development of Runglish. A small subplot in Arthur C. Clarke's novel \"\" concerned the crew of a Russo-American spaceship, who attempted to break down boredom with a \"Stamp Out Russlish!!\" campaign. As the story went, both crews were fully fluent in each other's languages, to the point that they found themselves crossing over languages in mid-conversation, or even simply speaking the other language even when there was no-one who had it as their native tongue present. Anthony Burgess' novel \"A Clockwork Orange\" has a famous form of Runglish called Nadsat. (See: Concordance: A Clockwork Orange) Less famously (but also in science fiction), Robert Heinlein’s novel ‘’The Moon is a Harsh Mistress’’ is written in the heavily Russian-influenced English (much Russian vocabulary, some Russian grammar) of a joint Australian/Russian penal colony on the Moon.\n\nThe Russian government declared 2007 to be the \"Year of the Russian Language\". It has been claimed that this was in part to give support to what is seen as proper Russian against such influences as the spread of English and Runglish. Yuri Prokhorov, the head of the Russian State Institute of Foreign Languages, stated that \"Young people always develop fashionable ways of communicating. (But) it is Russian words used incorrectly that damages the purity of the language, not the introduction of foreign words.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40700703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40700703", "title": "Senate Conservatives Fund", "text": "Senate Conservatives Fund\n\nThe Senate Conservatives Fund is a United States political action committee (PAC) that supports conservative Republican Party candidates, primarily in the United States Senate, in primary and general elections. The PAC was founded by then-U.S. Senator from South Carolina Jim DeMint in 2008. It has supported repealing the Affordable Care Act. Republican leaders have criticized the fund for targeting Senate Republicans.\n\nSouth Carolina Senator Jim DeMint founded the Senate Conservatives Fund during the summer of 2008. The fund first supported Pat Toomey in his challenge against Pennsylvania Senator Arlen Specter, and Marco Rubio in his challenge to Charlie Crist in Florida.\n\nIn 2010, the Senate Conservatives Fund raised $9.3 million, supporting successful Senate candidates Mike Lee of Utah, Rand Paul of Kentucky, and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin. The PAC also supported a number of unsuccessful candidates, including Sharron Angle in Nevada, Ken Buck in Colorado, Joe Miller in Alaska, John Raese in West Virginia, Dino Rossi in Washington, and Christine O'Donnell in Delaware.\n\nThe PAC raised and spent $16 million during the 2012 election cycle. After DeMint left office to head up the conservative Heritage Foundation, former DeMint chief of staff and political operative Matt Hoskins became executive director.\n\nThe fund has aligned itself with U.S. Senator Ted Cruz and has levied attacks on Senators Mitch McConnell and Lamar Alexander. In 2013, the fund orchestrated a robocall and direct mail campaign to generate signatures for an anti-Affordable Care Act petition. The PAC also endorsed a strategy to defund Obamacare that culminated in the 2013 shutdown of the federal government.\n\nIn 2013, the Fund expanded its focus to target House Republicans. Executive Director Hoskins described the impetus for the project as being partially to \"build a farm team for the Senate.\" The Project has endorsed Oklahoma Representative Jim Bridenstine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9690052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9690052", "title": "September Uprising", "text": "September Uprising\n\nThe September Uprising (, \"Septemvriysko vastanie\") was an armed insurgency staged in September 1923 by the Bulgarian Communist Party (BCP) under Comintern pressure, as an attempt to overthrow Alexander Tsankov's new government of Bulgaria that had come to power with the coup d'état of 9 June. Besides its communist base, the uprising was also supported by agrarians and anarchists. The uprising's goal was the \"establishment of a government of workers and peasants\" in Bulgaria, not the conversion of the country's socioeconomic system to communism.\n\nThe Bulgarian Communist Party leaders took up a neutral position on the 9 June coup d'état and the subsequent June Uprising because it regarded what was happening in the country as \"struggle for power between the urban and rural bourgeoisie\". This position was provoked by the belief of the party's older leaders, headed by Dimitar Blagoev and Todor Lukanov, that there were no ripe conditions for a revolution in Bulgaria yet.\n\nAt the same time, a number of party organizations in the country proclaimed their support for counteraction to the coup d'état, with some even joining the June Uprising. Bulgarian Comintern General Secretary Vasil Kolarov sent a telegram to the BCP (Narrow Socialists) leadership, advising them to \"act in determination, even together with Stamboliyski\". However, no common BCP measures in support of the June Uprising were taken in the long run.\n\nIn early August 1923, a plenary session of the BCP (Narrow Socialists) Central Committee was called. During the session, the young and radical party activists, headed by Georgi Dimitrov and Vasil Kolarov, backed by the Comintern, prevailed in support of the organization of a new uprising.\n\nThe government took precautions to prevent the uprising, arresting more than 2,000 noted BCP activists on 12 September 1923. As a reaction to the arrests, the uprising broke out without plan in isolated areas, initially around Kazanlak. On 20 September, a BCP Central Committee meeting was held, during which a decision was reached to proclaim the uprising on the eve of 23 September, despite opposition by the supporters of legal activity. The plan involved a mass uprising around Vratsa followed by the formation of an organized militia which would capture the capital Sofia.\n\nInsurrectionary activity was first started by the communists in the village of Maglizh near Kazanlak on the eve of 14 September. Their actions were backed by the BCP branch in Golyamo Dryanovo. The rebels seized the two villages, but received no support from the neighbouring branches, which decided to wait until the official proclamation of the uprising. Several hours after the outbreak in Maglizh, they withdrew into the mountains.\n\nOn 12 September, a campaign committee was set up in Stara Zagora, which reached a decision that the region should be stirred up to revolt on the eve of 20 September. The uprising broke out in Stara Zagora at the arranged time, but was quickly suppressed by government forces.\n\nNova Zagora revolted at the same time, with the city and the whole region being quickly seized by the rebels. The villages around Chirpan also revolted on the eve of 20 September and an unsuccessful attempt to capture the city was undertaken. The lack of an organized uprising around Burgas allowed the government to mobilize strong forces and crush the uprising around Stara Zagora. Particularly hard battles were fought at Maglizh, Enina and Shipka.\n\nAleksandar Tsankov's government, not enjoying wide popular support but relying on the army, declared martial law on 22 September and mobilized sizable forces to suppress the uprising. Groups of volunteers organized in \"shpitskomandi\" (paramilitary formations) also fought against the rebels.\n\nIn support of the cavalry platoon in Lom, which was encircled by the rebels, the government sent relief from Vidin. The rebel forces were aided by one cannon operated by Father Andrey, but it failed to tip the balance in their advantage. After three days of small-scale urban warfare, the government restored control over Lom.\n\nAt the morning of 25 September, rebels under Gavril Genov attacked the government troops heading to Ferdinand at Boychinovtsi and defeated them following a bitter fight. The victory raised their morale and they advanced to Vratsa, but were driven back. Rebel forces were also routed at Brusartsi by troops garrisoned at Vidin. The resistance of the rebels in the Petrohan Pass was also broken around the same time, and numerous heavily armed military units advanced to Ferdinand and Berkovitsa. In order to save the rebels from total extermination, the leaders issued an order to retreat to Yugoslavia. On 27 September, the government forces entered Ferdinand. On 28 September and 29 September, there were only occasional fights between the retreating rebels and the army.\n\nIn Plovdiv and the vicinity, an uprising practically did not break out. Only a handful of villages revolted around Pazardzhik, among which Muhovo and Lesichevo. On 24 September, the rebels attempted an unsuccessful attack of Saranbey.\n\nFollowing the departure of Dimitrov and Kolarov for the northwest, there were no preparations for the uprising in Sofia. The reason was that the Sofia branch of the BCP was dominated by supporters of legal action against Tsankov's government. Ultimately, a revolutionary committee was set up, consisting of Anton Ivanov, Dimitar Ginchev and Todor Atanasov, but it was uncovered and its members were arrested as early as 21 September. The lack of an uprising in Sofia allowed the government to use its best military units from Sofia to crush the uprising in other parts of the country.\n\nThere was small-scale insurrection around Ihtiman and Samokov, as well as in individual villages in the vicinity of Sofia and Pirdop. Ihtiman and Kostenets were captured, but the rebels were quickly crushed by government detachments from Sofia.\n\nBefore the beginning of the uprising, BCP and the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO) concluded an agreement, according to which BCP would not stir up the population in Pirin whereas IMRO would not obstruct the uprising's organization in other parts of the country. In practice, however, neither side respected the agreement, as the area around Razlog revolted and IMRO joined the conflict on the side of the government. Following short fights, the rebels withdrew into the mountains.\n\nIndividual villages around Veliko Tarnovo, Shumen and Burgas also joined the uprising.\n\nFollowing the suppression, the government, \"shpitskomandi\" and IMRO detachments committed atrocities against the civil population in the regions that revolted, with particularly large atrocities around the town of Ferdinand. Active communists and agrarians were killed, including some which did not take part in the September Uprising. According to a book published for the limited use of the nomenklatura by the BCP in 1972,entitled \"Stars in the Centuries\" the total number of casualties is 841,this is mostly in line with researches made after the fall of the Communist regime.Historiography during the communist rule of Bulgaria often considerably exaggerated the figures with political purposes. \n\nAfter the crushing of the uprising, its leaders Georgi Dimitrov and Vasil Kolarov fled to Yugoslavia and then to the Soviet Union. Some of the rebels remained in the country and acted as isolated militia in the mountains, other emigrated to Yugoslavia.\n\nIn the Bulgarian communist historiography, Tsankov's government was regarded fascist and the September Uprising was called \"the first anti-fascist uprising\". \n\nThe September Uprising and the atrocities during its suppression provoked a powerful reaction among the Bulgarian intellectuals of the time. Among the more famous works dedicated to the uprising are the poem \"Septemvri\" by Geo Milev, the novel \"Horo\" by Anton Strashimirov and the painting \"Septemvri 1923\" by Ivan Milev. Others include the books of poetry \"Proleten vyatar\" (\"Spring Wind\") by Nikola Furnadzhiev and \"Zhertveni kladi\" (\"Sacrificial Stakes\") by Asen Raztsvetnikov. The latter, together with Angel Karaliychev, author of the book \"Razh\" (\"Rye\"), were later classed as the \"September generation of writers\".\n\nBetween 1944 and 1979, memorials of the uprising were erected in a number of places, the locals of which participated in it.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35071080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35071080", "title": "Swiss military referendum, 1940", "text": "Swiss military referendum, 1940\n\nA referendum on the military was held in Switzerland on 1 December 1940. Voters were asked whether they approved of amending articles 103 and 104 of the federal law that detailed the organisation of the Swiss military. The proposal was rejected by 55.7% of voters.\n\nThe referendum was an optional referendum, which only a majority of the vote, as opposed to the mandatory referendums, which required a double majority; a majority of the popular vote and majority of the cantons.\n"}
{"id": "2024664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024664", "title": "Testem benevolentiae nostrae", "text": "Testem benevolentiae nostrae\n\nTestem benevolentiae nostrae is a letter written by Pope Leo XIII to Cardinal James Gibbons, Archbishop of Baltimore\", dated January 22, 1899. In it, the pope addressed a heresy he called Americanism, and expressed his concern that the American Church should guard against American values of liberalism and pluralism undermining the doctrine of the Church.\n\n\"Testem benevolentiae nostrae\" translates as \"Witness to Our Good Will.\" The Pope was concerned about the culture of Catholics in the United States, in respone to the preface of the French translation of the biography of Isaac Thomas Hecker. Hecker's biography reached France eleven years after Father Hecker had died (in good standing with the Church), and its French translation included a liberal preface by Abbé Félix Klein. Leo proposed to review certain opinions expressed by the translator in the book about Isaac Hecker. In particular: The Church should adapt to the new advanced civilization and relax her disciplines regarding not only the rule of life but also the deposit of faith, passing-over or minimizing certain points of doctrine, or giving to them a new meaning which the Church had never held.\n\n\"Testem benevolentiae nostrae\" involved American particularism and view of individual liberty. On particularism it was believed that a movement of American Catholics felt they were a special case who needed greater latitude in order to assimilate into a majority Protestant nation. The letter rejected the idea of \"some who conceive and would have the Church in America to be different from what it is in the rest of the world. (In 1892, certain immigrant support associations, while advocating for the establishment of national parishes in order that the congregations could be served by priests who understood the language and culture, pressed for the appointment of bishops to reflect representation of each nationality. This caused considerable disturbance among the American hierarchy.) The letter reiterated that Catholic teaching was the same throughout the world and not to be adjusted to suit a particular area.\n\nDuring the 19th century, Catholic doctrine articulated that Protestantism was a heresy and even a harmful new religious movement, although the Church under Leo did indicate individual Protestants might well be innocent due to \"invincible ignorance\". Still, Protestant religions themselves were not to be learned from or accepted as equals. Outside of this issue the article gave the consolation that Catholicism could accommodate to American norms when they did not conflict with doctrinal or moral teachings of the Catholic Church.\n\nThe letter actually had more to do with Catholics in France than those in the United States. French conservatives were appalled at Abbé Klein's remarks in a book about an American priest, and claimed that a number of the American Catholic clergy shared these views. Hence, in many ways, the article was more a warning to France that its Republic was becoming too liberal or secularist.\n\nHe expresses concern lest Americans would value their freedom and individualism so much they would reject the idea of monasteries and the priesthood. \"Did not your country, the United States, derive the beginnings both of faith and of culture from the children of these religious families?\" Again this is more about the anticlericalism in France at the time.\n\nIt was not uncommon for American bishops, finding themselves having to provide education and health care to large numbers of immigrants, pointedly solicited congregations involved in those activities. Leo cautioned against valuing an active apostolate more than a contemplative one. \"Nor should any difference of praise be made between those who follow the active state of life and those others who, charmed with solitude, give themselves to prayer and bodily mortification.\"\n\nIn November 1892 at a meeting of the archbishops held in New York City, Bishop Francesco Satolli, soon to be the first Apostolic delegate to the United States, presented fourteen propositions regarding the solution of certain school problems which had been for some time under discussion. The draft propositions were \"inopportunely\" published, with incorrect interpretations and malign insinuations in some papers, causing a good deal of \"acrid\" discussion.\n\n\"Testem benevolentiae nostrae\" clearly rejects full freedom of the press.\"These dangers, viz., the confounding of license with liberty, the passion for discussing and pouring contempt upon any possible subject, the assumed right to hold whatever opinions one pleases upon any subject and to set them forth in print to the world, have so wrapped minds in darkness that there is now a greater need of the Church's teaching office than ever before, lest people become unmindful both of conscience and of duty.\" Defenders of the document believe criticizing press freedom was understandable in an age of increasing libel, slander, and incitements of violence in newspapers. Newspaper stories of convents had already inflamed anti-Catholic violence. Further the Spanish–American War, which many Catholics opposed, was often blamed on William Randolph Hearst's newspapers and had occurred a year before the letter. Opponents of \"Testem benevolentiae nostrae\" believe it displayed an ongoing Vatican opposition to democracy and progress.\n\nStill, both sides tend to agree that Leo XIII wrote in a less condemnatory or at least more tactful manner than most of his immediate predecessors. Critics state this is merely because his immediate predecessors were or became strident reactionaries like Pope Pius IX. Supporters cite the fact that his encyclical on Americanism, \"Longinqua\", spoke of love for America more than condemnation of it.\n\nThe legacy of \"Testem benevolentiae nostrae\" is disputed. Among Traditionalist Catholics today there remains widespread support for its statements against ecumenicalism and liberalism. In more liberal circles, however, scholars maintain that it largely destroyed Catholic intellectual life in the US for the first half of the twentieth century. And yet, many others hold that its importance has been exaggerated. It does, however, highlight the uneasy relationship between the Holy See and the United States, a country which did not give full diplomatic relations with the Holy See until the presidency of Ronald Reagan in the 1980s.\n\nSome historians believe the letter was really directed at liberal currents in France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "589713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=589713", "title": "The Farm (Tennessee)", "text": "The Farm (Tennessee)\n\nThe Farm is an intentional community in Lewis County, Tennessee, near the town of Summertown, Tennessee, based on principles of nonviolence and respect for the Earth. It was founded in 1971 by Stephen Gaskin, and 300 spiritual seekers from Haight Ashbury and San Francisco. The Farm is well known among hippies and members of the counterculture and around the world as the home of modern midwifery. It is widely respected for its many nonprofits, including Plenty International, a relief and development organization, and Swan Conservation Trust, who established the Big Swan Headwaters Preserve. The Farm has approximately 200 members and residents.\n\nThe Farm was established after Stephen Gaskin and friends led a caravan of 60 buses, vans, and trucks from San Francisco on a four-month speaking tour across the US. Along the way, they became a community, lacking only in land to put down roots. After returning to California, the decision was made to buy land together. Combining all their resources would finance purchase of only about fifty acres in California. Another month on the road brought the group back to Tennessee, where they checked out various places that might be suitable to settle. They decided on property in Lewis County, about seventy miles south of Nashville. After buying 1,064 acres (4.1 km) for $70 per acre, the group began building its community in the woods alongside the network of crude logging roads that followed its ridgelines. Shortly thereafter, an adjoining 750 acres (3.0 km) were purchased for $100 per acre.\n\nFrom its founding in the 1970s, Farm members took vows of poverty and owned no personal possessions other than clothing and tools, though this restriction loosened as time passed. During that time, Farm members did not use artificial birth control, alcohol, tobacco, man-made psychotropics, or animal products. Many of the early buildings on the Farm were unconventional, ranging from converted school buses to modified 16 x 32 army tents. Over time, larger homes were constructed, each providing shelter for multiple families and single people, often with up to 40 people under one roof. Visitors were also housed in a two-story tent made by sewing two army tents together.\n\nIn the early days, Gaskin was considered the \"abbot of the monastery\" and made many of the governmental decisions for the group. His role was eventually taken over by a \"council of elders\" and then a \"board of directors\" consisting of some of the most respected and influential members of the Farm community. The Farm formed a non-profit corporation called The Foundation to provide a common financial structure for the community and members contributed their incomes to it. A security crew constantly maintained a welcome center at the entrance gate where all traffic passed and was logged.\n\nIn the original manifestation of The Farm, all members were believers in the holiness of life and that smoking marijuana was a sacrament. Founding members had all used LSD numerous times and believed they had experienced shared psychedelic vision that bound them together. They said that their cultural conditioning had been blown away enough to experience a world of higher consciousness. They believed in the reality of a spiritual dimension and in universal brotherhood.\n\nThe Farm community ate what might today be called a vegan diet. In the introduction of 1978 edition of \"The Farm Vegetarian Cookbook\" it states, \"We are completely vegetarian. We eat no meat, fish, poultry, eggs, or any kind of animal dairy products. Our diet is based on the soybean, which we eat in many different forms, along with other legumes, grains, fruits and vegetables. We grow our own food and recommend it whenever possible.\" The book is described as the \"family cookbook\" of the 1,100 residents living on 1,750 acres in southern middle Tennessee. The rationale for the diet is stated thus: \"We are vegetarians because one-third of the world is starving and at least half goes to bed hungry every night. If everyone was vegetarian, there would be enough food to go around, and no one would be hungry.\"\n\nGaskin, who had served in the United States Marine Corps, got his start as a religious leader in San Francisco in the 1960s, coming to teach a blend of Eastern religions and Christianity. Due to his devotion to marijuana, he and three followers spent time in 1974 in the Tennessee State Penitentiary in Nashville following convictions for growing marijuana on Farm land.\n\nThe Farm's outreach, combined with notoriety through popular media articles, led to a population boom that eventually peaked at around 1600 members living on the main property. Additionally, some \"satellite farm\" affinity communities which were located in the U.S. and other countries consolidated by moving to the Tennessee community. Signs started to appear between 1975 and 1979 that the Tennessee community's weak infrastructure and low income was insufficiently developed to support such a continuously large influx of new members, most of whom did not contribute substantially. The Foundation went increasingly into debt. Members were expected to turn over all money to the collective. Some donated inherited wealth or investment income, but most of it went for the group's Third World projects, or for immediate needs such as food and clothing, rather than planned improvements to the property. Occasionally Gaskin would request a large sum to fund his traveling expenses, which included touring around the world. Cottage industries including sorghum molasses, a publishing company and natural food did not generate sufficient income. Former members also blame the community's sincere attempt to put into practice idealistic concepts they had envisioned while taking LSD, along with youthful overconfidence and misguided belief in Gaskin's ideals.\n\nFurthering the Farm's growing pains was a baby boom resulting from the large number of young adults of childbearing age combined with an enthusiastic family philosophy being put into practice. Ina May Gaskin and other resident midwives advertised their services in the national underground press, which led to numerous couples and their infants moving in without contributing. A small number of infants were adopted by Farm members after the midwives offered to accept, deliver, and keep a woman's baby as an alternative to abortion. Most mothers kept their baby after the child was born or came back for them not long after.\n\nGaskin insisted that anyone who wished to partake of Farm life should be allowed to try, even those who were seriously mentally ill, believing the experience would be therapeutic. These proved to be a huge drain on the patience and energy of the residents. Lack of electricity and insufficient capacity of sewage infrastructure resources led to some giardia outbreaks and malcontent. Gaskin discouraged expressions of discontent and doubt, so that it was impossible to question the established order or propose improvements. As the Farm's population peaked, a disproportionately higher number of children or less-skilled residents could not significantly contribute to the community's economic needs. Gaskin, who was often traveling, may not have been aware of the seriousness of these deprivations, or believed they would improve if members persevered.\n\nIn 1983, due to financial difficulties and also a challenge to Stephen Gaskin's leadership and direction, The Farm changed its residential community agreement and began requiring members to support themselves with their own income rather than to donate all income to The Foundation central corporation. This decollectivization was called \"the Changeover\". Many people left disillusioned. The surrounding local rural area provided few possibilities for outside employment. The nearest large city, Nashville, was a 1.5-hour drive away. Those who could not adapt to the new dynamics of The Changeover found it difficult to remain. Those who had forged independent business opportunities or had reduced overhead could afford to stay.\n\nEventually the population settled back down to fewer than 200 adults and children. Those who continued living in the community were buoyed by its freedom and peaceful atmosphere, and the safety and security it provided for their children. The $400,000 plus debt was paid off after several years and the community became debt-free. An entrepreneurial spirit took hold, and numerous small businesses were established to provide support for the residents. Many members went back to school to get degrees in the medical field, and many now work at clinics and hospitals throughout Middle Tennessee.\n\nIn the 1990s, with the community back on solid ground, The Farm returned to its original purpose of initiating social change through outreach and example. The Ecovillage Training Center was established as an educational facility in new technologies such as solar energy, bio fuels, and construction techniques based on locally available, eco-friendly materials.\n\nThe Farm's population is approximately 200; residents are mostly baby boomers (about 70%), many of whom have lived on The Farm for most of its existence. Those interested in becoming residents are encouraged to visit during the bi-annual Farm Experience Weekend, which provides a glimpse into how the community operates and functions.\n\nIn 2004, the Wholeo Dome (a geodesic dome fourteen feet in diameter and seven feet tall, covered with curved stained glass panels) was installed at The Farm. It was created in 1974 by artist Caroling Geary. In May 2010 repairs were completed on the Wholeo Dome, but is currently in storage due to issues with the lead in stained glass artwork.\n\nThe Farm maintains contact with some of its 4000-plus former members through email lists, social media forums, an annual reunion each summer, and through the work of its nonprofit organizations. Former members have gone on to become leaders in many different fields and endeavors, maintaining a sense of right livelihood and a commitment to the betterment of the world.\n\nStephen Gaskin believed that marriage was a sacred act and that the sexuality between two people was created by the flow of cosmic energy, which was known as \"the juice\". \"For a community to exist in harmony and balance, both kinds of energy had to be nurtured, and most importantly shared.\" The ideology of marriage at the Farm could be described as \"synergistic\". Seriousness and commitment were required in marriage. With the exception of the Rhythm Method, in the early years birth control was frowned upon, and abortions were prohibited in the community. As an alternative to abortion, the Farm publicly offered to deliver any baby for free and then to find a loving family to raise the child. If the birth mother ever wanted the child she could have it back, and ultimately most kept their baby. Childbearing was natural, and births were attended by midwives. Premarital sex was greatly discouraged, and most couples on the Farm were married.\n\nSome of the original community members believed in the practice of group marriage. The \"four marriage system\" was viewed as an important social structure in the early days of the commune. It was taught only people with great ability and \"the juice\" were in plural marriages. None of these marriages survived more than ten years, most lasted no longer than five. And in some instances, the couples switched partners when the \"four marriage\" ended.\n\nThe Farm had its own electrical crew, composting crew, farming crew, communications, construction & demolition crew, clinic, firewood crew, alternative energy crew, motor pool, laundromat, tofu plant, bakery, school and ambulance service. It established The Book Publishing Company, which published the works of the Gaskins and other Farm members. The Farm's midwifery school and Ina May Gaskin's seminal book \"Spiritual Midwifery\" are well known throughout the world for their emphasis on maternal and newborn compassion, safety and success rates.\n\nThey also ran a \"soy dairy\", which developed and later marketed a soymilk ice \"cream\" called \"Ice-Bean\", and a vegetable store in the town of Summertown.\n\nThey maintained The Farm Band, a rock group in the early 'jam band' style, which toured the country performing for free at parks, schools, churches, and other accessible venues.\nAlbums from the 1970s include \"The Farm Band\" on Mantra Records, and \"Up in Your Thing\", \"High On the Rim of the Nashville Basin\" and \"Communion\" on Farm Tapes & Records. There were also a number of 45 releases. All Farm Band recordings were self-produced and distributed. During the 2000s (decade), Akarma Records in Italy have distributed bootleg copies of their albums. In addition to the rock music recordings, Stephen Gaskin released a spoken word album titled the \"Great Western Tour\" in 1974, which was produced and distributed in the same way as their other LPs.\n\nAnother music project of The Farm was the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (also known as \"NRC\"), a New wave music band. They released a 7-inch EP, \"We Are the NRC\", and an album, \"Reactor\", in 1980, and a second 7-inch EP, \"Sally's All Alone (After the End)\", in 1982.\n\nIn 1974, after helping local neighbors after a tornado, the Farm formed Plenty (later, Plenty International), its charitable works arm. It began by gathering and supplying food for local disaster victims and holding weekly \"quilting bees\" to make blankets for them.\n\nPlenty's most notable early project was its four-year presence in the Guatemalan highlands after the earthquake of 1976, helping to rebuild 1,200 houses and lay 27 kilometers of waterpipe. There, it established a micro-commune of volunteers and their families, living simply among Mayan populations and working under the approval of the military government.\n\nIn 1980, Plenty was the recipient of the first Right Livelihood Award, an alternative to the Nobel prize, also based in Sweden.\n\nPlenty donated an ambulance in the early 1980s to the Akwesasne Mohawk Reservation in upstate New York. Two Farmies – one a paramedic and one an EMT – taught a licensed Emergency Medical Technician course to 22 reservation residents, helping them set up their first Mohawk-run EMT service, the \"Mohawk Council of Akwesasne Ambulance Unit\". Plenty has set up clinics in Lesotho and Mexico and created the Jefferson Award-winning South Bronx Ambulance Project in New York City.\n\nPlenty maintains an office in Belize, Central America, which initiated a school lunch program based on organic gardens planted next to each school to help provide more vegetables for the children's diets. A midwifery program helped train over 60 Mayan women from villages throughout the region in prenatal care and safe delivery techniques.\n\nPlenty was one of the first relief organizations to enter New Orleans, getting past federal roadblocks to bring supplies to survivors just three days after Hurricane Katrina. Plenty helped establish a base camp for volunteers and channeled funding to Common Ground Collective, a local group assisting in cleanup, legal defense services, and the operation of free clinics. Plenty volunteers purchased and restored a home in the area to serve as a headquarters for housing relief volunteers and construction crews helping to rebuild homes.\n\nMelvyn Stiriss, a Plenty volunteer carpenter describes a year of earthquake reconstruction, working with Mayans, in Hippie Peace Corps Goes to Guatemala, part 4 of Voluntary Peasants published by New Beat Books, Warwick, NY 2015\n\nSome of the early titles produced by the Book Publishing Company illustrated the early interests of the Farm community; volumes included \"The Farm Vegetarian Cookbook\" (ed. Louise Hagler, 1975), \"Volume One: Sunday Morning Services on the Farm\" by Stephen Gaskin, \"...this season's people\" by Stephen Gaskin, \"Spiritual Midwifery\" by Ina May Gaskin, \"A Cooperative Method of Natural Birth\" by Margaret Nofziger, \"The Big Dummy's Guide to C.B. Radio\" by Albert Houston and the Radio Crew, and \"Shutdown: Nuclear Power on Trial\", by John Gofman and Ernest Sternglass. Book Publishing Company publishes under the imprints Healthy Living, GroundSwell Books, Native Voices, 7th Generation, and Books Alive.\n\nThere was no infrastructure grid on The Farm's land when it was first settled by the nascent community. Originally relying on antique kerosene lanterns and manual message runners, The Farm grew rapidly to adopt appropriate technology for electricity, communications, medical, mass media, education, and entertainment. Some of the early residents of The Farm brought their skills as engineers and technicians with them; they took on a multi-year development to build The Farm's novel network of communications and electrical supply.\n\nInitially, a single landline or party line shared with several of their Tennessee neighbors was available for outside telephone calls, with a waiting list for any calls. Spurred mainly by the need for prompt childbirth assistance and emergency medical response, a field-phone style party line system was installed by The Farm's telephone crew in 1971. Telephone lines were expanded to widely cover even the most remote areas over the following year. Instead of common telephone bell ringers, the first telephones used Morse Code beeps to signal a call. The party line, affectionately known as \"Beatnik Bell\", was eventually enabled in 1974 to route calls via a manual operator interconnect link patch to the outside line. Later, a 500 line Kellogg-ITT Relaymatic rotary dial phone system was installed in PBX configuration, with multiple outside trunk lines gated through a plug-style manual switchboard operator. Basic community CATV cables were later run to some areas along the telephone line paths.\n\nThe Farm installed its own water system and water towers. Some individuals initially resisted running electricity and power lines beyond the administration office and publishing center, with the hope of establishing off-grid decentralized utilities instead. The electrical supply 120/240 VAC mains system evolved from supplying only a few industrial buildings near the main Farm Road in 1971 to the point by the 1980s where most areas were covered by 12 Volt automotive battery trickle charge systems. Most homes phased out the use of kerosene lamps by 1975, as they converted to 12 Volt lighting and RV appliances or re-purposed automotive lighting fixtures. Off-grid low voltage 12 Volt DC systems were also sometimes powered by swapping vehicle batteries. After the economic change in 1983, all home were connected to the standard electrical grid.\n\nThe first use of wireless communications on The Farm was in 1971, when a ham radio HF SSB system was set up. Ham radio was used for health and welfare regional communications between mobile ham operators who were on the road with The Farm Band. The Farm Net, as the ham radio network was known, evolved into a worldwide daily operations schedule on 21332 kHz and 21442 kHz Upper Sideband in the 15-meter band, and a regional schedule on the 40-meter ham band. At the network's peak in 1978, The Farm Net included over 40 ham radio operators on associated and affinity communities, as well as many HF SSB mobiles. From its main base station, The Farm Net expanded to cover HF SSB communication links to stations in North America, Africa, and Europe using a field of tall radio towers on The Farm's ridgetop. Ham radio operators from The Farm volunteered with the Plenty International disaster relief operations for the 1976 Guatemala earthquake, with the Greenpeace anti-whaling campaigns, and many humanitarian response efforts worldwide. Ham radio was invaluable for voice communications consultations between doctors and field medical teams, and it included the use of HF slow scan TV for the relatively new concept of telemedicine. The ham radio was also used for technical discussions about alternative sources of energy, a popular topic among the back-to-the-land-movement, especially during the time of the 1970s energy crisis. The Farm's ham radio operators also used CB radios, as the cost of CB transceivers had dropped impressively during the mid-1970s. CB radios were widely adopted by The Farm for mobile general purpose local communications during this time, while CB radio was starting to become a nationwide craze. This eventually led to the writing of the book \"The Big Dummy's Guide to CB Radio\", which became a non-fiction bestseller. The popularity and sales of \"The Big Dummy's Guide To CB Radio\" fueled the launch of the Book Publishing Company's new printing presses, and provided much-needed income for The Farm at a crucial time in its growth. Later, The Farm's medical and security communications utilized VHF FM handheld two-way radios.\n\nThe Farm is home to many organizations. These organizations include the following:\n\n\nThe Farm School Solar and Satellite Campuses are K-12 programs that offer alternative education options for home-based learners (over 1200 students) and at a schoolhouse (approximately 25 students) on The Farm. The Satellite Campuses Program is a home- and community-based learning program for home educators, homeschoolers, and unschoolers. Peter Kindfield is the principal.\n\nThe school's mission is \"Supporting individuals learning together as we interact, form relationships and build community with each other and the rest of the world.\"\n\nFarm founder, long-time resident and former UPI wire service journalist Melvyn Stiriss speaks about The Farm at colleges, universities and centers around the U.S. His book \"Voluntary Peasants\" is the most recent comprehensive book about the history and experience of living on The Farm.\n\nThe Farm was featured in Peter Jenkins' travel book \"A Walk Across America\". Jenkins lived and worked at the farm in the seventies for some time before continuing his trip. Jenkins's canine companion, Cooper, was accidentally run over and killed by the farm's water truck while he was playfully sprinting underneath the moving truck from one side to the other.\n\nA feature documentary about growing up on The Farm, \"American Commune\", has been produced by filmmakers, former residents and sisters, Rena Mundo Croshere and Nadine Mundo.\n\nA book on The Farm written by members and former members and edited by Rupert Fike is \"Voices from The Farm\" which includes many never-before-published images from The Farm's early years.\n\nAnother book on The Farm written by Douglas Stevenson is \"Out To Change The World\". This book too includes many never-before-published images from The Farm's early years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28353779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28353779", "title": "The Intangibles of Leadership", "text": "The Intangibles of Leadership\n\nThe Intangibles of Leadership: The 10 Qualities of Superior Executive Performance is a book on business leadership, written by management psychologist Richard A. Davis, Ph.D. The book was published on July 26, 2010 by Jossey-Bass.\n\nDavis is a licensed Industrial/Organizational Psychologist and President/CEO of Kilberry Leadership Advisors. He has been consulting to senior executives for the past 10 years. Previously, he was partner with the Toronto office of RHR International. He has lectured on organizational behavior at the University of Western Ontario, Schulich School of Business, and Rotman School of Business at University of Toronto, and has been an invited speaker at high-profile organizations such as the National Association of Corporate Directors, Financial Executives International, and the Conference Board of Canada.\n\nDavis has been cited widely in the popular media, including CNN, CNBC, \"Harvard Business Review\",\"BusinessWeek\", \"CFO Magazine\", \"The Globe and Mail\", \"Entrepreneur\", The Wall Street Journal, Forbes, CanadaAM, and Report on Business TV.\n\nThe Intangibles of Leadership uncovers patterns in the attributes that truly distinguish those who succeed at the top. After more than a decade of senior executive assessments, CEO interviews, and proprietary research, Davis found that extraordinary leaders possess certain characteristics that fall between the lines of existing leadership models, yet are fundamental to executive success. Davis explains each of these qualities, the people who exemplify them, how to detect them in others, and how to develop the subtle characteristics that will enable leaders to stand out from the pack. The book has been highly reviewed and was named as a \"Top Business Book of 2010 by Library Journal\".\n\nThe Ten Intangibles outlined in the book are:\n\nAccording to the author, the book is a practical atlas of the characteristics that most define extraordinary leaders and their underlying psychological mechanisms. It was designed as a mirror to help executives think about how they approach leadership and gain insights that can enable them to grow and develop.\n\n"}
{"id": "28077066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28077066", "title": "Trading with the Enemy Act", "text": "Trading with the Enemy Act\n\nTrading with the Enemy Act is a stock short title used for legislation in the United Kingdom and the United States relating to trading with the enemy.\n\nTrading with the Enemy Acts is also a generic name for a class of legislation generally passed during or approaching a war that prohibit not just mercantile activities with foreign nationals, but also acts that might assist the enemy. While originally limited to wartime, in the 20th century these Acts were applied in cases of national emergency as well. For example, in 1940, before the United States entry into World War II the president imposed broad prohibitions on the transfer of property in which Norway or Denmark, or any citizen or national of those countries, or any other person aiding those countries, had any interest, with the exception of transfers which were licensed under the regulations of the Department of the Treasury.\n\n\n\n\nThe British Trading with the Enemy Act 1939 was applied to Mandatory Palestine, as to other British-ruled territories. On the creation of Israel in 1948, it was retained as an Israeli law and the various Arab countries named in it as \"The Enemy\". It is still in force as of 2013, though Egypt and Jordan were removed from its application with the respective peace agreements Israel signed with them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8922888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8922888", "title": "VoteOnMarriage.org", "text": "VoteOnMarriage.org\n\nVoteOnMarriage.org was a U.S. political organization in the state of Massachusetts dedicated to the passage of a constitutional amendment to the Massachusetts Constitution to ban same-sex marriage. Its goal was to have the amendment voted on by the people of Massachusetts in the 2008 general election, but the amendment failed when it was defeated by a joint session of the Massachusetts Legislature.\n\nLed by evangelical preacher Roberto S. Miranda and Kris Mineau, the group was successful in getting the Massachusetts Legislature to vote on a proposed ban on future same sex marriages. The Massachusetts Constitution requires 50 affirmative votes (25%) at two consecutive Constitutional Conventions of the legislature, and the initial vote for the ban was 62 in favor. The second vote was defeated with 45 members voting in favor, so the issue was not included on 2008 ballot and same-sex marriage remained legal in Massachusetts.\n\nVoteOnMarriage.org stated that its Massachusetts Protection of Marriage Amendment would permit Massachusetts citizens to vote on the definition of marriage and that \"Marriage as the union of a man and a woman is the universal model and predates all nations, religions and laws. The heterosexual marital relationship reflects the fundamental essence of laws of nature and anatomy, and ensures procreation and the nurturing of children.\" The organization supported a Benefits Fairness Act that would allow some benefits for two adults in a dependent relationship who were ineligible for marriage.\n\nVoteOnMarriage.org was accused of employing forgery and bait-and-switch techniques to obtain fraudulent signatures for their petition drive, and the Massachusetts Attorney General initiated a criminal investigation regarding the forgery allegations. The group Knowthyneighbor.org published a searchable online database listing names and addresses of the petition signers, allowing signatures to be checked for fraud and complaints to be reported.\n\nOn January 9, 2006, shortly after a news report of a paid signature gatherer alleging to the media she defrauded citizens, VoteOnMarriage.org sent a letter to the Secretary of State of Massachusetts asking his office to investigate the matter. The letter stated that VoteOnMarriage.org sought to comply fully with all applicable laws during the signature gathering process and had been found in full compliance by the Attorney General. The letter also raised concerns about the legitimacy of the petition complaint reporting processes established by Knowthyneighbor.org.\n\nThe deadline period for filing complaints with the Election’s Division of the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s office related to the petition process was January 6, 2006. No formal challenges to the VoteOnMarriage.org signature-gathering effort were filed.\n\nAccording to a March, 2005 poll conducted by \"The Boston Globe\", 56% of voters in Massachusetts supported the State's Supreme Judicial Court and its ruling in \"Goodridge v. Dept. of Public Health\", while only 37% opposed the ruling.\n\nVoteOnMarriage.org cited a poll conducted by the State House News Service in Massachusetts finding that 75% of registered voters believed that the people, not the courts, should decide the definition of marriage in Massachusetts.\n\nOn June 14, 2007, the most recent effort to enable a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage failed, and no active effort to do so continues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48444191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48444191", "title": "Wisconsin Association of School Councils", "text": "Wisconsin Association of School Councils\n\nThe Wisconsin Association of School Councils (WASC) is a \"statewide organization of public, private, and parochial elementary, middle, junior, and senior high school student leadership groups dedicated to the continuation and expansion of leadership development and student responsibilities in Wisconsin.\" It is a non-profit, student-led, student-run youth leadership and advocacy organization.\n\n\"The WASC is deeply committed to the continuation and expansion of leadership development in the State of Wisconsin.\"\n\nThe Wisconsin Association of School Councils founded at the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 1935. In that year, it was named the Wisconsin High School Student Council Association. (WHSSCA)\n\nFrom 1935-1946, WHSSCA held statewide conferences for high school student councils, sponsored by and at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. In 1946, Gerald Van Pool voiced concern about the how the organization was being run. He then began serving as the Executive Secretary to strengthen the organization of the association. Van Pool accepted a job at the National Student Council Association in Washington, D.C., in 1947 after serving as Executive Secretary for one year. Van Pool influenced the WHSSCA into joining the National Student Council Association.\n\nIn January 1948, the name of the association changed from the Wisconsin High School Student Council Association (WHSSCA) to the Wisconsin Association of Student Councils (WASC) This happened under the direction of Bernard A. Kennedy of Prairie du Chien, the Executive Secretary from 1947-1951.\n\nThe WASC’s third Executive Secretary was George Heatherington of La Crosse, (1951-1957), the fourth was Ralph Mithy of Janesville, (1957-1959) and the fifth was Donald A. Wendt of Madison (1959-1972). During Wendt’s term, the WASC was subject to protest and request to change, but the association remained constant. In YEAR, a monthly Newsletter was created and was edited by the Executive Secretary. In 1961, Gerald Van Pool and Donald A. Wendt structured the first WASC Summer Leadership Workshop, held in Stevens Point, Wisconsin.\n\nIn 1972, the sixth Executive Secretary, Larry Hanson, Plainfield, was elected (1972-1973). During his term, a new constitution and by-laws were established, and the Wisconsin Secondary School Administrators Association (WSSAA) began sponsoring the WASC. The new constitution was ratified in October 1973, which created a State Governing Board and Executive Committee. These consisted of an equal ratio of students and adults elected from within six regions. There was to be also an equality of representation of junior and middle school (JAM) and senior high schools (SHS). The member schools of each region were required to have two annual meetings, and the state conference was moved from fall to spring. With the implication of the State Governing Board and Executive Committee and new stipulations, the WASC became the country’s only student council organization with equality of students and adults as voting representatives.\n\nDonald C. Larsen was hired in the fall of 1973 and worked as the first shared WSSAA/WASC Executive, and served as the WASC’s Executive Director, a position previously named Executive Secretary (1973-2000). To more correctly describe school involvement in their organization, the WASC replaced the word “Student” with the word “School” in their title; making their name the Wisconsin Association of School Councils. Larsen created a foundation committed to enhancing student leadership in the WASC.\n\nThe WASC State office was created in Stevens Point, but moved to Madison in 1979. A series of programs were established in the 1970s and 1980s for students and advisors to advance their leadership abilities. Some include Annual WASC Advisor Conference (1973), Cheer/Poms Camps (1975), Annual Nation Honor Society State Conference (1977), and Annual Elementary School State Conference (1979), Advanced Summer Leadership Camps, Wisconsin Association of Cheer/Pom Coaches (WACPC) (1988).\n\nIn the 1990s, two more state offices were added to the organization for JAM schools. On December 15, 1997, the WASC Governing Board approved the WASC FOUNDATION and ENDOWMENT organization and the WASC TORCH BEARERS. Succeeding Donald C. Larsen as Executive Director was Roger L. Chambers (2000-2005), then Michelle McGrath (2000-).\n\nThe WASC splits Wisconsin into six regions. Those are, I: Whitetail Region; II: Northlands Region; III: Fox River Valley Region; IV: Metropolitan Region; V: Capitol Region; VI: Big Rivers Region. Each region has their own bylaws and elect new Regional Officers each year. Student officers serve for one year, and adults serve for three years.\n\nEach regions' bylaws consist of ordinances regarding name, membership, organization and management, caucuses, regional officers, duties of regional officers, vacancies, and amendments.\n\nThe WASC offers many events including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2807130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2807130", "title": "Xie Wanjun", "text": "Xie Wanjun\n\nXie Wanjun () (born July 10, 1967) a political activist that fled to the United States. He is currently the chairman of China Democracy Party. He was an active student during the Tiananmen Square Protests of 1989. On October 17, 1996, he led an anti-Japan protest and was imprisoned for a month. In August 1997, he tried to apply a trade union in Shanghai but he was expelled from Shanghai. He was one of the founding members of China Democracy Party in 1998, and was elected to the central committee in February 1999, he escaped from China in April 1999, he then fled to Russia then the United States.\n\n"}
