{"id": "38300852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38300852", "title": "1989 in philosophy", "text": "1989 in philosophy\n\n1989 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "175401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175401", "title": "Adam Ferguson", "text": "Adam Ferguson\n\nAdam Ferguson, FRSE (Scottish Gaelic: \"Adhamh MacFhearghais\"), also known as Ferguson of Raith (1 July N.S./20 June O.S. 1723 – 22 February 1816), was a Scottish philosopher and historian of the Scottish Enlightenment.\n\nFerguson was sympathetic to traditional societies, such as the Highlands, for producing courage and loyalty. He criticized commercial society as making men weak, dishonourable and unconcerned for their community. Ferguson has been called \"the father of modern sociology\" for his contributions to the early development of the discipline. His most well known work is his \"Essay on the History of Civil Society\".\n\nBorn at Logierait in Atholl, Perthshire, Scotland, the son of Rev Adam Ferguson, he received his education at Logierait Parish School, Perth Grammar School, and at the University of Edinburgh and the University of St Andrews (MA 1742). In 1745, owing to his knowledge of Gaelic, he gained appointment as deputy chaplain of the 43rd (afterwards the 42nd) regiment (the Black Watch), the licence to preach being granted him by special dispensation, although he had not completed the required six years of theological study.\n\nIt remains a matter of debate as to whether, at the Battle of Fontenoy (1745), Ferguson fought in the ranks throughout the day, and refused to leave the field, though ordered to do so by his colonel. Nevertheless, he certainly did well, becoming principal chaplain in 1746. He continued attached to the regiment till 1754, when, disappointed at not obtaining a living, he left the clergy and resolved to devote himself to literary pursuits.\n\nAfter residing in Leipzig for a time, he returned to Edinburgh where in January 1757 he succeeded David Hume as librarian to the Faculty of Advocates (see Advocates' Library), but soon relinquished this office on becoming tutor in the family of the Earl of Bute. In 1759 Ferguson became professor of natural philosophy in the University of Edinburgh, and in 1764 transferred to the chair of \"pneumatics\" (mental philosophy) \"and moral philosophy\".\n\nIn 1767, he published his \"Essay on the History of Civil Society\", which was well received and translated into several European languages. In the mid-1770s he travelled again to the Continent and met Voltaire. His membership of The Poker Club is recorded in its minute book of 1776.\n\nIn 1776 appeared his anonymous pamphlet on the American Revolution in opposition to Dr Richard Price's \"Observations on the Nature of Civil Liberty\", in which he sympathised with the views of the British legislature. In 1778 Ferguson was appointed secretary to the Carlisle Peace Commission which endeavoured, but without success, to negotiate an arrangement with the revolted colonies.\n\nIn 1780 he wrote the article \"History\" for the second edition of Encyclopædia Britannica. The article is 40 pages long and replaced the article in the first edition, which was only one paragraph.\n\nIn 1783 appeared his \"History of the Progress and Termination of the Roman Republic\"; it became very popular and went through several editions. Ferguson believed that the history of the Roman Republic during the period of their greatness formed a practical illustration of those ethical and political doctrines which he studied especially. The history reads well and impartially, and displays conscientious use of sources. The influence of the author's military experience shows itself in certain portions of the narrative. Tired of teaching, he resigned his professorship in 1785, and devoted himself to the revision of his lectures, which he published (1792) under the title of \"Principles of Moral and Political Science\".\n\nIn his seventieth year, Ferguson, intending to prepare a new edition of the history, visited Italy and some of the principal cities of Europe, where he was received with honour by learned societies. From 1795 he resided successively at Neidpath Castle near Peebles, at Hallyards on Manor Water, and at St Andrews, where he died on 22 February 1816. He is buried in the churchyard of St Andrews Cathedral, against the east wall. His large mural monument includes a carved profile portrait in marble.\n\nIn his ethical system Ferguson treats man as a social being, illustrating his doctrines by political examples. As a believer in the progression of the human race, he placed the principle of moral approbation in the attainment of perfection. Victor Cousin criticised Ferguson's speculations (see his \"Cours d'histoire de la philosophie morale an dix-huitième siècle\", pt. II., 1839–1840):\n\nWe find in his method the wisdom and circumspection of the Scottish school, with something more masculine and decisive in the results. The principle of perfection is a new one, at once more rational and comprehensive than benevolence and sympathy, which in our view places Ferguson as a moralist above all his predecessors.\n\nBy this principle Ferguson attempted to reconcile all moral systems. With Thomas Hobbes and Hume he admits the power of self-interest or utility, and makes it enter into morals as the law of self-preservation. Francis Hutcheson's theory of universal benevolence and Adam Smith's idea of mutual sympathy (now empathy) he combines under the law of society. But, as these laws appear as the means rather than the end of human destiny, they remain subordinate to a supreme end, and the supreme end of perfection.\n\nIn the political part of his system Ferguson follows Montesquieu, and pleads the cause of well-regulated liberty and free government. His contemporaries, with the exception of Hume, regarded his writings as of great importance (see Sir Leslie Stephen, \"English Thought in the Eighteenth Century\", Cambridge University Press, 2011, p. 214).\n\nFerguson's \"An Essay on the History of Civil Society\" (1767) drew on classical authors and contemporary travel literature, to analyze modern commercial society with a critique of its abandonment of civic and communal virtues. Central themes in Ferguson's theory of citizenship are conflict, play, political participation and military valor. He emphasized the ability to put oneself in another's shoes, saying \"fellow-feeling\" was so much an \"appurtenance of human nature\" as to be a \"characteristic of the species.\" Like his friends Adam Smith and David Hume as well as other Scottish intellectuals, he stressed the importance of the spontaneous order; that is, that coherent and even effective outcomes might result from the uncoordinated actions of many individuals.\n\nFerguson saw history as a two-tiered synthesis of natural history and social history, to which all humans belong. Natural history is created by God; so are humans, who are progressive. Social history is, in accordance with this natural progress, made by humans, and because of that factor it experiences occasional setbacks. But in general, humans are empowered by God to pursue progress in social history. Humans live not for themselves but for God's providential plan. He emphasized aspects of medieval chivalry as ideal masculine characteristics. British gentleman and young men were advised to dispense with aspects of politeness considered too feminine, such as the constant desire to please, and to adopt less superficial qualities that suggested inner virtue and courtesy toward the 'fairer sex.'\n\nFerguson was a leading advocate of the Idea of Progress. He believed that the growth of a commercial society through the pursuit of individual self-interest could promote a self-sustaining progress. Yet paradoxically Ferguson also believed that such commercial growth could foster a decline in virtue and thus ultimately lead to a collapse similar to Rome's. Ferguson, a devout Presbyterian, resolved the apparent paradox by placing both developments in the context of a divinely ordained plan that mandated both progress and human free will. For Ferguson, the knowledge that humanity gains through its actions, even those actions resulting in temporary retrogression, form an intrinsic part of its progressive, asymptotic movement toward an ultimately unobtainable perfectibility.\n\nFerguson was influenced by classical humanism and such writers as Tacitus, Niccolò Machiavelli, and Thomas Hobbes. The fellow members of Edinburgh's Select Society, which included David Hume and Adam Smith, were also major influences. Ferguson believed that civilization is largely about laws that restrict our independence as individuals but provide liberty in the sense of security and justice. He warned that social chaos usually leads to despotism. The members of civil society give up their liberty-as-autonomy, which savages possess, in exchange for liberty-as-security, or civil liberty. Montesquieu used a similar argument.\n\nSmith emphasized capital accumulation as the driver of growth, but Ferguson suggested innovation and technical advance were more important, and he is therefore in some ways more in line with modern thinking. According to Smith, commerce tends to make men 'dastardly'. This foreshadows a theme Ferguson, borrowing freely from Smith, took up to criticize capitalism. Ferguson's critique of commercial society went far beyond that of Smith, and influenced Hegel and Marx.\n\nThe \"Essay\" has been seen as an innovative attempt to reclaim the tradition of civic republican citizenship in modern Britain, and an influence on the ideas of republicanism held by the American Founding Fathers.\n\nHe married Katharine Burnett in 1767.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38773776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38773776", "title": "Alexander Pruss", "text": "Alexander Pruss\n\nAlexander Robert Pruss (born January 5, 1973) is a Canadian mathematician, philosopher, Professor of Philosophy and the Co-Director of Graduate Studies in Philosophy at Baylor University in Waco, Texas.\n\nHis best known book is \"The Principle of Sufficient Reason: A Reassessment\" (2006). He is also the author of the books, \"Actuality, Possibility and Worlds\" (2011), and \"One Body: An Essay in Christian Sexual Ethics\" (2012), and a number of academic papers on religion and theology. He maintains his own philosophy blog and contributes to the Prosblogion philosophy of religion blog.\n\nPruss graduated from the University of Western Ontario in 1991 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Mathematics and Physics. After earning a Ph.D. in Mathematics at the University of British Columbia in 1996 and publishing several papers in \"Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society\" and other mathematical journals, he began graduate work in philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh. He completed his dissertation, \"Possible Worlds: What They Are and What They Are Good For\", under Nicholas Rescher in 2001.\n\nPruss began teaching philosophy at Georgetown University in 2001, earning tenure in 2006. In 2007, he moved to Waco, Texas to teach philosophy at Baylor University. He is now the Director of Graduate Studies for the Baylor Philosophy Department. He has taught various courses, including graduate seminars on the philosophy of time, metaphysics, the cosmological and ontological arguments for the existence of God, modality, free will, and history of philosophy.\n\nPruss's philosophical thought reflects Christian orthodoxy. He is a Roman Catholic and a member of the Society of Christian Philosophers.\n\nPruss defends the principle of sufficient reason (PSR), claiming that it is self-evident, and arguing that the rejection of PSR creates problems in epistemology, modality, ethics, and even evolutionary theory.\n\nPruss is a critic of David Lewis's \"extreme modal realism,\" and instead gives \"a combined account\" of Leibnizian and Aristotelian modality, which integrates the \"this-worldly capacities\" of the Aristotelian view and Leibniz's account of possible worlds as thoughts in the mind of God.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51168295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51168295", "title": "Andrzej Nowicki (philosopher)", "text": "Andrzej Nowicki (philosopher)\n\nAndrzej Rusław Fryderyk Nowicki (b. 27 May 1919 in Warsaw – d. 1 December 2011 in Warsaw) was a Polish philosopher of culture, a specialist in the history of philosophy and of atheism, in Italian philosophy of the Renaissance and in religious studies and a connoisseur of the fine arts, poet and diplomat . He conceived his own philosophical system which he called \"the ergantropic and incontrological () philosophical system of meetings within things\". He worked as an academic at the University of Warsaw (1952–63), the University of Wrocław (1963–73), the Maria Curie-Skłodowska University in Lublin (1973–91) and achieved the rank of a professor. He was co-founder and chairman of the Association of Atheists and Freethinkers and of the Polish Association for Religious Studies (). He was the founder and editor-in-chief of the \"Euhemer\" magazine. He was the grandmaster of the Grand Orient of Poland in 1997–2002 and was a member of the committee of the Front of National Unity in 1958.\n"}
{"id": "55946029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55946029", "title": "Augusta Cooper Bristol", "text": "Augusta Cooper Bristol\n\nAugusta Cooper Bristol (April 17, 1835 – May 9, 1910) was an American poet and lecturer. She began teaching at the age of fifteen. In 1869, she published a volume of poems, and, the same year, gave her first public lecture. Beginning in 1872, she was frequently called before the public as a speaker.\n\nAugusta Cooper was born in Croydon, New Hampshire, April 17, 1835. She was the youngest of a family of ten children of Col. Otis and Hannah (Powers) Cooper. Her first verses were written at the age of eight, and she had poems published when only fifteen. She excelled in mathematics and showed in her early life an aptitude for logical and philosophical reasoning. The greater part of her education was acquired in a public school, but she was also a student in Canaan Union Academy and Kimball Union Academy. \n\nBristol began teaching at fifteen during summer and winter for seven years. At the age of twenty-two, she married G. H. Kimball, from whom she was divorced five years later. In 1866, she married Louis Bristol, a lawyer of New Haven, Connecticut, and they removed to southern Illinois. In 1869, she published a volume of poems, of which, a review by \"The Congregationalist and Boston Recorder\" noted: \"In \"Poems\" by Augusta Cooper Bristol, we fail to discern any remarkable poetic power. They seem to be characterized bya considerable command of language, and something of the poetic temper, with a good deal of the now fashionable cant of 'insight' and 'nature' and non-capital punishment, and things of that kind.\" In the same year, she gave her first public lecture, which changed the course of her intellectual career.\n\nIn 1872, she moved to Vineland, New Jersey, from which date she developed herself as a platform speaker before the public. For four years, she was president of the Ladies' Social Science Class in Vineland, giving lessons from Herbert Spencer and Henry Charles Carey every month. In the winter of 1880, she gave a course of lectures before the New York Positivist Society on \"The Involution of Character,\" followed by another course under the auspices of the Woman's Social Science Club of that city. In the following June, she was sent by friends in New York City to study the equitable association of labor and capital at the Familistère, in Guise, France, founded by Jean-Baptiste André Godin. She was also commissioned to represent the New York Positivist Society in an international convention of liberal thinkers in Brussels in September. Remaining in the Familistere for three months and giving a lecture on the \"Scientific Basis of Morality\" before the Brussels convention, she returned home and published the \"Rules and Statutes\" of the association in Guise. In 1881, she was chosen State lecturer of the Patrons of Husbandry in New Jersey. In the autumn of the following year, was employed on a national lecture bureau of that order.\n\nAfter her husband's death in 1882, she seldom appeared upon the platform, but was one of the speakers in the World's Congress of Representative Women at the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago (1893). She was occupied with the care of an estate and in directing the educational interests of her youngest daughter. Some of her philosophic and scientific lectures were translated and published in foreign countries. She died May 9, 1910 in Vineland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28012268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28012268", "title": "Boston Monthly Magazine", "text": "Boston Monthly Magazine\n\nThe Boston Monthly Magazine (1825–1826) of Boston, Massachusetts, was edited by Samuel Lorenzo Knapp in the 1820s. It was \"devoted to literature, philosophy, and miscellaneous matters, worthy of being recorded, ... [and] chiefly directed to the diffusion of the productions of our own minds.\" It focused on American culture, as distinct from that of Europe. Contributors included Thomas Edwards, David Claypoole Johnston, Pendleton's Lithography, John Ritto Penniman, and William Hoogland.\n\nIn the first issue of June 1825, Knapp addressed his readers:\n\"We shall endeavor to blend amusement with instruction, and philosophy and taste with morals — to persuade without dictating, and to reason without any claims to infallibility. ... We shall not confine ourselves to any particular field of literature or philosophy; but shall thrust in our sickles wherever we have a right to reap, and glean after others wherever the harvest is gathered, if what is left is worth picking up. We shall give to our labors as much variety as possible, and often attempt to relieve the solemn legend and serious tale, by something of the playful and the gay. The wits shall be taxed to swell our stores, but nothing shall appear in our columns to confuse innocence or alarm modesty. We shall often leave the groves of fancy and the paths of general literature and history, for deep shades and solitudes, where repose the ashes of youth and loveliness, to drop a tear and strew a flower on the graves of those untimely called away; ... to read the rude memorials of our forefathers, in order to bring their merits into light, and make them better known to their descendants. ... Among the fair we expect readers and hope for patrons, for we have at all times advocated their claims to an equal share with men, in the advancement of knowledge and happiness in society, and shall still continue to support the same doctrine. The time has gone when females were pleased with drivelling flattery, and smiled in approbation at mawkish sonnets to their beauty and charms. ... The simplicity of Sparta and the polish of Athens, is sweetly blended in the highest state of female education. ... In the course of our labors, we shall not be unmindful of the numerous institutions and societies now flourishing in our country; — their origin, growth, and value, shall be fairly discussed. A monthly summary of passing events at home, and a succinct view of things abroad, shall be added. If we glance at politics, it shall be with national feelings; if we touch upon religion, it shall be in the spirit of toleration.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "44652631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44652631", "title": "Busshō (Shōbōgenzō)", "text": "Busshō (Shōbōgenzō)\n\nBusshō (), or Buddha Nature, is the third book of the \"Shōbōgenzō\" by the 13th century Sōtō Zen monk Eihei Dōgen. It was written in the fall of 1241 at Dōgen's monastery Kōshōhōrin-ji in Kyoto. As the title implies, the work is a discussion of the concept of buddha nature, laying out Dōgen's unique viewpoint on what the term means. While more typical interpretations see Buddha-nature as the inherent prospect of becoming a buddha, or alternatively a sort of life force within us, in \"Busshō\" Dōgen interprets Buddha-nature simply as concrete reality itself. He presents this thesis in his characteristically difficult style using frequent allusions to and comments on classical Zen literature, as well as complex word play hinging on creative interpretations of Classical Chinese sentence structure.\n\nThe literature of Mahāyāna Buddhism includes many discussions and comments on the notion of buddha nature, and its exact meaning has been interpreted in numerous ways over many centuries. At is most basic, it can simply be synonymous with \"buddha\" or the qualities that make one a Buddha. More commonly, it is used to mean the potential to become a buddha, with common analogies likening buddha nature to a seed and a fully-fledged buddha to the mature plant. Finally, it may mean the absolute, fundamental nature of all things.\n\nDōgen begins his work by quoting the putative words of Shakyamuni Buddha as recorded in the Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra stating that all living beings have buddha nature. He then equates this statement to a dialogue Dōgen often cites between Nanyue Huairang and his teacher Dajian Huineng in which they discuss the undefiled nature of \"practice and verification\" (), setting up his argument that buddha nature is just reality itself.\n"}
{"id": "18883813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18883813", "title": "Camil Mureșanu", "text": "Camil Mureșanu\n\nCamil Bujor Mureşanu (; born 20 April 1927 in Turda – died 21 February 2015) was a Romanian historian, professor, author, and translator.\n\nMureşanu was born and reared in Turda. He attended the King Ferdinand High School in Turda, where his father, Teodor Murăşanu, was a teacher. After 1946, he studied history at Cluj University, where he graduated in June 1950.\n\nMureşanu became a teaching assistant, junior teaching assistant (1950-1952), assistant professor (1952-1961), associate professor (1961-1975), and professor (after 1975) at Babeş-Bolyai University. Also, he was the dean of Faculty of History (1968-1976, 1981-1989). He obtain his Ph.D. in history in 1971 with the thesis: Times of John Hunyadi (doctoral adviser Ṣtefan Pascu). He was visiting professor at Columbia University, New York City (1978). Mureşanu is a doctoral adviser after 1976. In the summer of 1948, Camil Mureşanu was arrested for political reasons, without penal sanctions.\n\nHe is a researcher at the \"George Bariţiu\" History Institute (after 1975). In 1995, he became the principal of \"George Bariţiu\" History Institute. He was a corresponding member of the Romanian Academy (1990), then member of the Romanian Academy - the History and Archaeology Section (June 2000) and branch chairman of Cluj Romanian Academy (after 2006). Officially, his surname was \"Mureşan\", but he prefers in the last years \"Mureşanu\".\n\nHe was a participant at the International Congress of Historical Sciences (Vienna - 1965, Moscow - 1970, Bucharest - 1980, Oslo - 2000). He attended a specialisation at Sorbonne University in Paris (February - June 1966).\n\nHe is a correspondent member of the \"Süd-ost Europa Gesellschaft\", Munich (October 1999), and Berlin (February 26, 2000), as well as a correspondent member of the Pedagogical Academy in Belgrade. He is the co-president of the Romanian-Hungarian mixed history commission.\n\nCamil Mureşanu is a doctor honoris causa of the University of Oradea (December 1, 1999), the West University of Timişoara (March 2002), and the 1 Decembrie 1918 University, Alba Iulia (March 2007).\n\nHe is an honorary citizen of Cluj-Napoca (February 1997), Turda (June 1997), and Blaj (September 24, 1999).\n\nHe is a member of General Association of Greek Catholic Romanians.\n\nHis grand father was a priest and his father, Teodor Murăşanu, was a Romanian language teacher.\n\nHis son, Ovidiu Mureşan (born 1951), is a historian at Babeş-Bolyai University.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "195180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195180", "title": "Christine Korsgaard", "text": "Christine Korsgaard\n\nChristine Marion Korsgaard, (; born April 9, 1952) is an American philosopher and Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University whose main scholarly interests are in moral philosophy and its history; the relation of issues in moral philosophy to issues in metaphysics, the philosophy of mind, and the theory of personal identity; the theory of personal relationships; and in normativity in general. She has been described as \"one of today's leading moral philosophers\" because of her work in defense of Kantian views in moral theory, and \"the greatest contemporary proponent\" of \"a distinguished philosophical tradition that conceives of humanity as a task.\"\n\nKorsgaard first attended Eastern Illinois University for two years and transferred to receive a B.A. from the University of Illinois and a Ph.D from Harvard, where she was a student of John Rawls. She received an LHD Doctor of Humane Letters from the University of Illinois in 2004. She is a 1970 alumna of Homewood-Flossmoor High School in Flossmoor, Ill.\n\nShe has taught at Yale, the University of California at Santa Barbara, and the University of Chicago; since 1991 she has been a professor at Harvard University, where she is now Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Philosophy.\n\nIn 1996 Korsgaard published a book entitled \"The Sources of Normativity\", which was the revised version of her Tanner Lectures on Human Values, and also a collection of her past papers on Kant's moral philosophy and Kantian approaches to contemporary moral philosophy: \"Creating the Kingdom of Ends\". In 2002, she was the first woman to give the John Locke Lectures at the University of Oxford, which turned into her most recent book, \"Self-Constitution: Agency, Identity, and Integrity\".\n\nShe was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences in 2001 and a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy in 2015. She served as President of the Eastern Division of the American Philosophical Association in 2008-2009, and held a Mellon Distinguished Achievement Award from 2006-2009.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10203857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10203857", "title": "Contentment", "text": "Contentment\n\nContentment is a mental or emotional state of satisfaction maybe drawn from being at ease in one's situation, body and mind. Colloquially speaking, contentment could be a state of having accepted one's situation and is a milder and more tentative form of happiness.\n\nContentment and the pursuit of contentment are possibly a central thread through many philosophical or religious schools across diverse cultures, times and geographies. Siddharta might have said \"Health is the most precious gain and contentment the greatest wealth\". John Stuart Mill, centuries later, would write \"I have learned to seek my happiness by limiting my desires, rather than in attempting to satisfy them.\" Marcus Aurelius wrote \"Live with the gods. And he who does so constantly shows them that his soul is satisfied with what is assigned to them.\" Hebrews 13:5 reads \"Keep your lives free from the love of money and be content with what you have, because God has said, 'Never will I leave you; never will I forsake you.'\" Chinese philosopher Zhuang Zhou once wrote in the 3rd century BCE (hypothetically) \"A gentleman who profoundly penetrates all things and is in harmony with their transformations will be contented with whatever time may bring. He follows the course of nature in whatever situation he may be.\"\n\nThe literature seems to generally agree that contentment is maybe a state ideally reached through being happy with what a person has, as opposed to achieving one's larger ambitions, as Socrates described by probably saying \"He who is not contented with what he has, would not be contented with what he would like to have.\" That said, there may be a number of elements of achievement that may make finding a state of personal contentment easier: a strong family unit, a strong local community, and satisfaction of life's basic needs as perhaps expressed in Maslow's hierarchy of needs. In general, the more needs in Maslow's hierarchy are achieved, the more easily one might achieve contentment.\n\nMany religions have some form of eternal bliss or heaven as their apparent goal, often contrasted with eternal torment or dissatisfaction. The source of all dissatisfaction appears to stem from the ability to compare experiences and then infer that one's state is not ideal.\n\nIn the Bible, there is an intriguing allegorical account that man's fall from his paradisal state was caused by man eating the forbidden fruit from the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. Man's eyes were \"opened\" to know the distinction between good and evil (Genesis 3). In other words, when man becomes intellectually developed to distinguish between good and bad, he realizes that is a gap between what he considers good or ideal and what he is experiencing. The perception of this disparity is what creates psychological and physiological tension.\n\nIn the \"Tao Te Ching\", this development of man from his primal state of consciousness called Tao is similarly expounded in this manner: \"When the Tao is lost, there is goodness. When goodness is lost, there is morality ...\". Morality as we know is the intellectual discernment between good and evil. There is therefore a belief that one can achieve contentment by living \"in the moment,\" which represents a way to stop the judgmental process of discriminating between good and bad. However, attempting to live in the moment is difficult because a person's attention is not only distracted by sensory stimuli but also psychological processes that conspire to make them think subconsciously or consciously. This thinking process is always involved with memories; hence, the attempt to stay in the present is a ponderous one given that there is always this subconscious struggle to break away from memories, especially unhappy ones. For this reason, specializations in this pursuit to live in the moment are found in various religious and mystical schools, manifested in forms of meditation and prayer.\n\nA more practical way for most people would be to simply practice contentment as an attitude. Practicing gratitude is perhaps a way to understand what contentment as an attitude is about. Seen in this light, contentment is not an achievement but an attitude that one can adopt at any time.\n\nThe American philosopher Robert Bruce Raup wrote a book \"Complacency: The Foundation of Human Behavior\" (1925) in which he claimed that the human need for complacency (\"i.e. inner tranquility\") was the hidden spring of human behavior. Raup made this the basis of his pedagogical theory, which he later used in his severe criticisms of the American education system of the 1930s. However, in the context of present-day society, perhaps the multidimensional leisure culture evinces in a very significant way the desire of man to return to his core state of contentment by letting go of his hectic outer activities.\n\nIn many ways, contentment can be closely associated with the concept of happiness and satisfaction. In positive psychology, social scientists study what might contribute to living a good life, or what would lead to people having increased positive mood and overall satisfaction with their life.\n\nHappiness, in positive psychology, is defined in a twofold manner, which in totality is referred to as subjective well-being. How much positive emotion (positive affect) as opposed to negative emotion (negative affect) does a person have, and how ones view one's life overall (global satisfaction) are the questions asked in positive psychology to determine happiness. Contentment may be more associated or closely related to a person's level of satisfaction with his/her life (global satisfaction), but the idea of contentment is certainly intertwined in the concept of what makes people happy.\n\nIn the 2014 book \"\", Paul van der Merwe uses a chart to illustrate how being content for long periods of time, can yield more happiness than being ecstatic during a short period.\n\nPositive psychology finds it very important to study what contributes to people being happy and to people flourishing, and finds it just as important to focus on the constructive ways in which people function and adapt, as opposed to the general field of psychology which focuses more on what goes wrong or is pathological with human beings.\n\nThese are two concepts that define the ways in which people make choices. A satisficer is a person who will make a decision once his/her criteria is met, and a maximizer, on the other hand, won't make a decision until every possible option is explored.\n\nThere is evidence suggesting that there is a relationship between contentment and genes.\n\nThrough factor analysis, personality can be narrowed down according to the five factor model, which holds that there are five aspects of heritable personality traits: openness to experience, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism. Research has shown that personality is 50% heritable, but not always. There are two aspects of personality which are related to happiness. There is a strong relationship between extraversion and happiness, in that the more extraverted a person is (or behaves) the more happy he/she will be. The other aspect of personality which has a strong relationship to happiness is the genetic predisposition to neuroticism. The more neurotic (emotionally unstable) a person is, the more likely he/she is to be unhappy.\n\nReaching goals that are important to oneself and that are in alignment with one's personality can contribute to feelings of confidence and mastery. It is important to establish goals that are neither too easy or too hard, but that are optimally challenging. It is also important to note that investing energy in avoiding goals will contribute to diminishing happiness as well as deter one from reaching one's goals, which can be quite intuitive to understand.\n\nMany people strongly associate money with happiness, and they believe that being rich will contribute greatly to making them happier, and the American society reflects this growing materialism. Although wealth is associated with some positive outcomes, i.e. lighter prison sentences for the same crime, better health, and lower infant mortality, and can act as a buffer in certain instances, as mentioned previously, the overall relationship between money and happiness is marginal.\n\nHowever, beyond a low threshold where the basic needs are met, money has a very small impact on happiness. There is also the concept of the diminishing marginal utility of income (DMUI), which is that money has no effect on happiness once a certain income level has been reached, and which represents wealth and happiness as having a curvilinear relationship.\n\nIndeed, when one has met his basic needs and have more to spare, it is time to spend or give some to experience happiness. This is because happiness is really a state of in-and-out flow of one's energy. Using or giving money is an expression of out-flowing of one's life-state. Attempt to just hoard more and more in the belief that it brings more happiness can lead to the opposite result if only because the means – that is the pursuit of money for happiness – has unwittingly become the ends.\n\nThe concept of work-life balance is now well-accepted. At the same time, it must be noted that the 'life' aspect of this 'work-life' concept includes activities devoted to one's personal life which sometimes calls for the kind of commitment and effort no less than that demanded from one's work-life.\n\nIn some societies, this 'life' aspect might include looking after the elderly and infirm, sending children to and from schools, preparing the meals, cleaning the house and doing the laundry. They are as much work as the work life, and in the midst of all these, the need for leisure activities is simply an alien concept.\n\nLeisure as a culture is not a universal societal value although the younger generation in developed or near-developed societies seems more inclined toward it. Overseas trips, lounging in a cafe with friends, attending concerts, relaxing in a spa, karaoke-ing and similar activities after office hours are now prevalent among that generation. In fact, over the last 15 years, the market has seen a tremendous surge in demand for such leisure services. In his book \"In the Era of Human Capital\", Richard Crawford charted the exponential growth of the Business & Leisure sector in the post-industrial society.\nThis trend might look like an offshoot of a more affluent society; however, the need for leisure is intrinsic in humans and only through the demands of modern economic life – run as it were by the clock, timetables, deadlines and schedules – did this need fade into the background.\n\nHumans' need for leisure is intrinsic because that is the state they were born with, or rather, that is the state of life in the natural world. Leisure implies that one is not pressured by others or oneself to deliver a certain result but that life is lived to enjoy the simple pleasures of exploring the world that one is born into.\n\nThis happy state of life is that generally experienced by the pre-school child and is gradually lost when duties and responsibilities of school life and subsequently the adult work-life enter into the picture.\n\nNot all societies have embraced the leisure culture whether through certain public policies like having a universal welfare system, and psychological and financial preparedness on the part of individuals for retirement wherein leisure is the salient feature. This even applies to developed nations. For example, the US has a \"retirement crisis\" in which a large percentage of Americans do not have sufficient savings for retirement.\n\nEconomic productivity being often if not always equated with work, the culture of leisure is seldom recognized as a major contributor to a growing business sector. For this reason, many societies do not have in place an infrastructure that strongly supports the leisure culture – such as represented by a universal social welfare system, a wealth of products, services and amenities for retirees. Such societies even if they were to become more affluent may continue to find happiness elusive even for retirees.\n\nLeisure is intrinsically sought after by all as a way to release the tensions and stresses of work-life. It is often used to indulge in play – as is witnessed by how constantly obsessed nowadays people are with surfing the Internet, movies and games through their smartphones. There is no doubt that these are enjoyable activities.\n\nBut leisure also allows people – without the need of any modern gadgets – to re-connect with family and friends and experience the happiness arising from that interaction such as chatting over a drink or meal.\n\nHistorically, major Eastern mystical teachings on human development, like those from India and China, do not make a separation between the spiritual and physical. Happiness or contentment was never viewed as an isolated state from physical health. Physical health-enhancing practices such as Hatha yoga and qigong – and their respective herbalism known as Ayurveda and TCM (traditional Chinese medicine) – were consonant with and fully integrated into those mystical teachings in the implicit belief that the attainment of the ideal state of consciousness requires a healthy body as a launchpad or basis even.\n\nPersonal development and health in these systems are understood more as a holistic development of the various aspects of the multidimensional human being.\n\nThe concept of body and mind interplay (including relationship factor) now known as psychosomatic medicine has always been present in these \"mystical teachings\", particularly in TCM. An unhappy, angry patient may be told by a TCM physician that there is a lot of trapped heat in their internal organs and then treated accordingly with herbs or acupuncture. At times, if the TCM physician is a qigong practitioner, they may even recommend some qigong exercises for the patient to practise.\n\nHowever given that adepts in such complex holistic analysis and treatment are hard to come by, Eastern health maintenance practices may not necessarily be always adequate, reliable or even safe. Mainstream Western medicine and a good personal knowledge into the common health issues and how to treat them safely at home should also be included in the total package to ensure good health so that the human body can be fit vehicle for optimal and positive performance – the foundation of happiness.\n\nOuter success and material possession are secondary when health is compromised. One cannot be happy or contented when the body is broken, although there are rare, exceptional individuals who are able to rise above their physical predicament. However, for the vast majority having a good knowledge and an effective protocol for personal health is critical to happiness not just to oneself but also to one's family and friends.\n\nLaughter is synonymous with happiness. A proposal is made here that when a line of thought (e.g. joke) or sensation (e.g. tickling) is not expected by one's psychological or physiological order respectively, it triggers a certain chaos and temporary breakdown of that order. The innate Contentment intrinsic to the person then breaks through this temporal breach to express itself in happy laughter.\n\nLaughter has been used as a health therapy for many years such as in some hospitals through the showing of TV comedies for patients. Laughter clubs have also been formed in India and some Asian countries to promote laughter as a form of health-enhancement through regular meet-ups.\n\nContentment has also been studied as a cultural or political phenomenon. The Nordic nations, which have repeatedly appeared near the top in Happiness Index surveys like World Happiness Report – and most likely correlated economic performance as well – contend that higher rates of happiness are rooted in their welfare system, the \"Nordic model\", which not only fulfills the healthcare, social and other essential needs of their people but also is proposed to provide a high sense of security.\n\nOther research indicates a substantial portion of Scandinavians exaggerate their sense of happiness or contentment when asked informally or in surveys, due to social prohibitions against expressing negativity or unhappiness.\nThe region's rates of alcohol abuse, among the highest in Europe, have also been cited as an indication that the positive social effects attributed to the Nordic model are exaggerated.\n\nSome of the earliest references to the state of contentment are found in the reference to the midah (personal attribute) of \"Samayach B'Chelko\". The expression comes from the word \"samayach\" (root Sin-Mem-Chet) meaning \"happiness, joy or contentment\", and \"chelko\" (root Chet-Lamed-Kuf) meaning \"portion, lot, or piece\", and combined mean contentment with one's lot in life. The attribute is referred to in the Mishnahic source which says, \"Ben Zoma said: Who is rich? Those who are happy with their portion.\"\n\nThe origins of contentment in Jewish culture reflect an even older thinking reflected in the Book of Proverbs which says: \"A joyful heart makes a cheerful face; A sad heart makes a despondent mood. All the days of a poor person are wretched, but contentment is a feast without end.\"\n\nThe issue of contentment remained in Jewish thinking during the Middle Ages as evident for example in the writings of Solomon Ibn Gabirol, an eleventh-century Spanish poet-philosopher who taught:\n\nWho seeks more than he needs, hinders himself from enjoying what he has. Seek what you need and give up what you need not. For in giving up what you don't need, you'll learn what you really do need.\n\nIn Islam, true contentment is achieved through establishing a relationship with Allah, always keeping Him in mind. The Quran states:\nThis verse reveals that the more the people gain the trivial goods of this life, the greater becomes the hunger and the consequent burning of their hearts. Moreover, there is no end for worldly desires and greed. But as for those who seek God, the more they turn to Him, the greater is their peace of mind. This means that a search for the divine or a supreme Deity is inherent within human nature and the innermost yearning of a human being. The real and ultimate goal of a person's life.\n\nIn a well known Hadith (saying of the prophet Muhammad) the prophet said:\nIn Yoga (Yoga Sutras of Patanjali), movement or positions, breathing practices, and concentration, as well as the yamas and niyamas, can contribute to a physical state of contentment (santosha).\n\nIn a Buddhist sense, it is the freedom from anxiety, want, or need. Contentment is the goal behind all goals because once achieved there is nothing to seek until it is lost. A living system cannot maintain contentment for very long as complete balance and harmony of forces means death. Living systems are a complex dance of forces which find a stability far from balance. Any attainment of balance is quickly met by rising pain which ends the momentary experience of satisfaction or contentment achieved. Buddha's task was to find the solution to this never-ending descent into dissatisfaction or Dukkha. The Buddhist faith is based on the belief that he succeeded.\n\nContentment (or Sabar or Santokh) is important an aspect in Sikh life and is known as attainment of First Treasure. Sikhism categorizes Contentment into two forms: Contentment (Santokh) and True Contentment (Satt Santokh/Sabar). Contentment can be broken, turning souls greedy for the temporal world, but True Contentment is never broken and such a soul is eligible for the Supreme State. The soul having contentment is called Saabari or Santokhi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15932382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15932382", "title": "Domingo Báñez", "text": "Domingo Báñez\n\nDomingo Báñez (29 February 1528 in Valladolid – 22 October 1604 in Medina del Campo) was a Spanish Dominican and Scholastic theologian. The qualifying \"Mondragonensis\" sometimes attached to his name seems to refer to the birthplace of his father, Juan Báñez, at Mondragón in Guipúzcoa.\n\nBáñez was born at Medina del Campo, in the province of Valladolid.\n\nAt fifteen he began to study philosophy at the University of Salamanca. Three years later he took the Dominican habit at the Convent of St. Stephen, Salamanca, and made his profession 3 May 1547. During a year's review of the liberal arts and later, he had the afterwards distinguished Bartolomé Medina as a fellow student. Under such professors as Melchior Cano (1548–51), Diego de Chaves (1551), and Pedro Sotomayor (1550–51) he studied theology, laying the foundations of the erudition and acquiring the acumen which later made him eminent as a theologian and an exponent and defender of Thomistic doctrine. Báñez next began teaching, and under Domingo Soto, as prior and regent, he held various professorships for ten years. He was made master of students, explaining the \"Summa\" to the younger brethren for five years, and incidentally taking the place, with marked success, of professors who were sick, or who for other reasons were absent from their chairs at the university. In the customary, sometimes competitive, examinations before advancement he is said easily to have carried off all honours. Báñez taught at the Dominican University of Avila from 1561 to 1566. About 1567 he was assigned to a chair of theology at Alcalá, the ancient Complutum. It appears that he was at Salamanca again in 1572 and 1573, but during the four scholastic years 1573-77 he was regent of St. Gregory's Dominican College al Valladolid, a house of higher studies where the best students of the Castilian province were prepared for a scholastic career. Elected Prior of Toro, he went instead to Salamanca to compete for the chair of Durandus, left vacant by Medina's promotion to the chief professorship. He occupied this position from 1577 to 1580. After Medina's death (30 December 1580) he appeared again as competitor for the first chair of the university. The outcome was an academic triumph for Báñez and he was duly installed in his new position amid the acclamations of professors and students. There he laboured for nearly twenty years. His name acquired extraordinary authority, and the leading schools of orthodox Spain referred to him as the \"proeclarissimum jubar\"-- \"the brightest light\"—of their country.\n\nBáñez in his prime was director and confessor of St. Teresa.\n\nThe great controversy, with whose beginnings his name is prominently associated, goes back to a public disputation held early in 1582. Francisco Zumel, of the Order of Mercy, was moderator. Prudentius Montemayor, a Jesuit, argued that Christ did not die freely, and consequently suffered death without merit, if the Father had given him a command to die. Báñez asked what the consequences would have been if the Father had given command not only as to the substance of the act of death, but also as to its circumstances. Prudentius responded that in that case there remained neither liberty nor merit. Luis de León, an Augustinian, sided with Prudentius and presently the discussion was taken up by the masters in attendance and carried to the kindred subjects of predestination and justification. Other formal disputations ensued, and strong feeling was manifested. Juan de Santa e Cruz, a Hieronymite, felt constrained to refer the matter to the Spanish Inquisition (5 February), and to his deposition he appended sixteen propositions covering the doctrines in controversy. Leon declared that he had only defended the theses for the sake of argument. His chief thought was to prevent them from being qualified as heretical. Notwithstanding these and further admissions, he was forbidden to teach, publicly or privately, the sixteen propositions as reviewed and proscribed.\n\nIn 1588, Luis Molina, a Jesuit brought out, at Lisbon, his \"Concordia liberi arbitrii cum gratiæ donis\", bearing the censura, or sanction, of a Dominican, Bartolomeu Ferreiro, and dedicated to the Inquisitor General of Portugal, Cardinal Albert of Austria; but a sentiment against its appearance in Spain was aroused on the ground of its favouring some of the interdicted propositions. The cardinal, advised of this, stopped its sale, and requested Báñez and probably some others to examine it. Three months later, Báñez gave his opinion that six of the 11 forbidden propositions appeared in the \"Concordia\".\n\nMolina was asked to defend himself, and his answers to the objections and to some other observations were added as an appendix, with which, sanctioned anew (25 and 30 August 1589), the work was permitted to circulate. It was regarded as an epoch-making study, and many Fathers of the Society of Jesus rallied to its defense. From Valladolid where the Jesuit and Dominican schools in 1594 held alternate public disputations for and against its teaching on grace, the contention spread over all Spain. The intervention of the Inquisition was again sought, and by the authority of this high tribunal the litigants were required to present their respective positions and claims, and a number of universities, prelates, and theologians were consulted as to the merits of the strife. The matter was referred however, by the papal nuncio to Rome, 15 August 1594, and all dispute was to cease until a decision was rendered. In the meantime, to offset his Dominican and other critics, Molina brought counter accusations against Báñez and Zumel. The latter submitted his defense in three parts, all fully endorsed by Báñez, 7 July 1595. The Dominican position was set forth about the same time by Báñez and seven of his brethren, each of whom presented a separate answer to the charges. But the presiding officer of the Inquisition desired these eight books to be reduced to one, and Báñez, together with Pedro Herrera and Didacus Alvarez was instructed to do the work. About four months later Alvarez presented their joint product under the title \"Apologetica fratrum prædicatorum in provinciâ Hispaniæ sacræ theologiæ professorum, adversus novas quasdam assertiones cujusdam doctoris Ludovici Molinæ nuncupati\", published at Madrid, 20 November 1595. [...] Nearly two years later, 28 October 1597, Báñez resumed the case in a new summary and petitioned the pope to permit the Dominican schools to take up their teaching again on the disputed questions. This was the \"Libellus supplex Clementi VIII oblatus pro impetrandâ immunitate a lege silentii utrique litigantium parti impositâ\", published at Salamanca. An answer to the \"Libellus\" was conveyed in a letter of Cardinal Madruzzi, 25 February 1598, written in the name of the pope, to the nuncio in Spain:\n\nThis pronouncement practically ended whatever personal participation Báñez had in the famous controversy.\n\nIt has been contended that Báñez was at least virtually the founder of present-day Thomism, especially in so far as it includes the theories of physical promotion, the intrinsic efficacy of grace, and predestination irrespective of foreseen merit. To any reader of Bañez It is evident that he would have met such a declaration with a strenuous denial. Fidelity to St. Thomas was his strongest characteristic. [...] He singles out for special animadversion the views in which his professors and associates dissent even lightly from the opinions of the Angelic Doctor.\n\nBáñez's zeal for the integrity of Thomistic teaching could brook no doctrinal novelty, particularly if it claimed the sanction of St. Thomas's name. In the voluminous literature of the \"De Auxiliis\" and related controversies, the cardinal tenets of Thomism are ascribed by its opponents to a varied origin: Gerhard Schneeman, the Rev. Father De Regnon, S. J. and the Rev. Father Gaudier, S. J. are probably the foremost modern writers who designate the Thomists as Bannesians. But against them appears a formidable list of Jesuits of repute who were either Thomists themselves or authorities for other opinions. Suárez, for instance, credits Medina with the first intimations of physical premotion and elsewhere admits that St. Thomas himself once taught it. Toletus and Pererius considered as Thomistic the Catechism of the Council of Trent, which was the work (1566) of three Dominican theologians. The Rev. Victor Frins S. J., gives it as his opinion that whilst Medina and Pedro Soto (1551) taught physical predetermination, the originator of the theory was Francis Victoria, O.P. (d. 1546). The Dominicans Ferrariensis (1576), Cajetan (1507), and Giovanni Capreolus (d. 1436) are also accredited Thomists in the estimation of such authorities as the Jesuits Martin Becanus and Azorius, and the theologians of Coimbra. Molina, strangely enough, cites the doctrine of a \"certain disciple of St. Thomas\"—supposedly Báñez—as differing only in words from the teaching of Duns Scotus, instead of agreeing with that of Aquinas. These striking divergences of opinion of which only a few have been cited would seem to indicate that the attempt to father the Thomistic system on Báñez has failed.\n\nThe development of Thomistic terminology in the Dominican school was mainly due to the exigencies not only of the stand taken against Molina and the forbidden propositions already mentioned, but of the more important defense against the attacks and aberrations of the Reformers. The \"predetermination\" and \"predefinition\" of Báñez and his contemporaries, who included others besides Dominicans, emphasized, on the part of God's knowledge and providence, a priority to, and independence of future free acts, which, in the Catharino-Molinistic theories, seemed to them less clearly to fall under God's causal action. These terms, however, are used by St. Thomas himself. The words \"physical premotion\" were meant to exclude, first a merely moral impulse and, secondly, a concurrence of the Divine causality and free will, without the latter's subordination to the First Cause. That such terms, far from doing violence to the teachings of their great leader, are their true expression, has, of course, been an unvaried tenet of the Thomistic school. One of the presiding officers of the Congregatio de Auxiliis, Cardinal Madruzzi, speaking of Báñez in this connection, said: 'His teaching seems to be deduced from the principles of St. Thomas and to flow wholly from St. Thomas's doctrine, although he differs somewhat in his mode of speaking.'\n\n"}
{"id": "30832071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30832071", "title": "Dominicae cenae", "text": "Dominicae cenae\n\nDominicae Cenae () is an apostolic letter written by Pope John Paul II concerning the Eucharist and its role in the life of the Church and the life of the priest. It also touches on other Eucharistic topics. \n\nIt was promulgated on February 24, 1980, the Second Sunday of Lent. It is the second letter issued during Pope John Paul II's pontificate. \n\n\"Dominicae Cenae\" is divided into four major sections:\n1. THE EUCHARISTIC MYSTERY IN THE LIFE OF THE CHURCH AND OF THE PRIEST\n\n2. THE SACRED CHARACTER OF THE EUCHARIST AND SACRIFICE\n\n3. THE TWO TABLES OF THE LORD AND THE COMMON POSSESSION OF THE CHURCH\n4. CONCLUSION\n"}
{"id": "24855262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24855262", "title": "Encounter at the Elbe", "text": "Encounter at the Elbe\n\nEncounter at the Elbe (in ) is a Soviet movie released in 1949 from Mosfilm, describing the conflict, spying, and collaboration between the Soviet Army advancing from the east and the U.S. Army advancing from the west. The two allied forces met each other for the first time on the River Elbe near the close of the Second World War. This meeting occurred on April 25, 1945, which was usually remembered as “Elbe Day” in Western Bloc nations and as the \"Encounter at the Elbe” in Eastern Bloc nations.\n\nThe movie was directed by Grigori Aleksandrov and Aleksey Utkin, with music by Dmitri Shostakovich, which included “Yearning for the Homeland” (in , the words by Yevgeniy Dolmatovsky), that became popular at that time in the Eastern Bloc nations and among the leftists in the Western Bloc nations including Japan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1891598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1891598", "title": "Ernst Mally", "text": "Ernst Mally\n\nErnst Mally (; ; 11 October 1879 – 8 March 1944) was an Austrian philosopher affiliated with the so-called Graz School of phenomenological psychology. A pupil of Alexius Meinong, he was one of the founders of deontic logic and is mainly known for his contributions in that field of research.\n\nMally was born in the town of Kranj () in the Duchy of Carniola, Austria-Hungary (now in Slovenia). His father was of Slovene origin, but identified himself with Austrian German culture (he also Germanized the orthography of his surname, originally spelled Mali, a common Slovene surname of Upper Carniola). After his death, the family moved to the Carniolan capital of Ljubljana (). There, Ernst attended the prestigious Ljubljana German language Gymnasium. Already at a young age, Mally became a fervent supporter of the Pan-German nationalist movement of Georg von Schönerer. In the same time, he developed an interest in philosophy.\n\nIn 1898, he enrolled in the University of Graz, where he studied philosophy under the supervision of Alexius Meinong, as well as physics and mathematics, specializing in formal logic. He graduated in 1903 with a thesis entitled \"Untersuchungen zur Gegenstandstheorie des Messens\" (Investigations in the Object Theory of Measurement). In 1906 he started teaching at a high school in Graz, at the same time collaborating with Adalbert Meingast and working as Meinong's assistant at the university. He also maintained close contacts with the Laboratory for Experimental Psychology, founded by Meinong. In 1912, he wrote his \"Habilitation\" thesis entitled \"Gegenstandstheoretische Grundlagen der Logik und Logistik\" (\"Object-theoretic Foundations for Logics and Logistics\") with Meinong as supervisor.\n\nFrom 1915 to 1918 he served as an officer in the Austro-Hungarian Army. After the end of World War I, Mally joined the Greater German People's Party, which called the unification of German Austria with Germany. In the same period, he started teaching at the university and in 1925 he took over Meinong's chair. In 1938, he became a member of the National Socialist Teachers' Association and two months after the \"Anschluss\" he joined the NSDAP. He continued teaching during the Nazi administration of Austria until 1942 when he retired. He died in 1944 in Schwanberg.\n\nMally was the first logician ever to attempt an axiomatization of ethics (Mally 1926). He used five axioms, which are given below. They form a first-order theory that quantifies over propositions, and there are several predicates to understand first. !x means that x ought to be the case. Ux means that x is unconditionally obligatory, i.e. that !x is necessarily true. ∩x means that x is unconditionally forbidden, i.e. U(¬x). A f B is the binary relation A requires B, i.e. A materially implies !B. (All entailment in the axioms is material conditional.) It is defined by axiom III, whereas all other terms are defined as a preliminary.\n\nformula_1\nNote the implied universal quantifiers in the above axioms.\n\nThe fourth axiom has confused some logicians because its formulation is not as they would have expected, since Mally gave each axiom a description in words also, and he said that axiom IV meant \"the unconditionally obligatory is obligatory\", i.e. (as many logicians have insisted) UA → !A. Meanwhile, axiom 5 lacks an object to which the predicates apply, a typo. However, it turns out these are the least of Mally's worries (see below).\n\nTheorem: This axiomatization of deontic logic implies that !x if and only if x is true, OR !x is unsatisfiable. (This makes it useless to deontic logicians.)\nProof: Using axiom III, axiom I may be rewritten as (!(A → B) & (B → C)) → !(A → C). Since B → C holds whenever C holds, one immediate consequence is that (!(A → B) → (C → !(A → C))). In other words, if A requires B, it requires any true statement. In the special case where A is a tautology, the theorem has consequence (!B → (C → !C)). Thus, if at least one statement ought be true, every statement must materially entail it ought be true, and so every true statement ought be true. As for the converse (i.e. if some statement ought be true then all statements that ought be true are true), consider the following logic: ((U → !A) & (A → ∩)) → (U → !∩) is a special case of axiom I, but its consequent contradicts axiom V, and so ¬((U → !A) & (A → ∩)). The result !A → A can be shown to follow from this, since !A implies that U → !A and ¬A implies that A → ∩; and, since these are not both true, we know that !A → A.\n\nMally thought that axiom I was self-evident, but he likely confused it with an alternative in which the implication B → C is \"logical\", which would indeed make the axiom self-evident. The theorem above, however, would then not be demonstrable. The theorem was proven by Karl Menger, the next deontic logician. Neither Mally's original axioms nor a modification that avoids this result remains popular today. Menger did not suggest his own axioms. (See also deontic logic for more on the subsequent development of this subject.)\n\nMally developed a realistic approach to ontology (Mally 1935) and saw himself in opposition to the Vienna Circle and the logical positivists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5974803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5974803", "title": "Etz Chaim Center for Jewish Learning", "text": "Etz Chaim Center for Jewish Learning\n\nEtz Chaim Center for Jewish Learning is an Orthodox Jewish organization designed to reach out to secular and non-Orthodox Jews in the hopes of bringing them into the Baal teshuva movement.\n\nOfficially incorporated on November 30, 1983, Etz Chaim is a multi-faceted outreach center dedicated to reaching Jews of all backgrounds to experience Orthodox Judaism. Among its programs, Etz Chaim helps people find study partners for the process of conversion to Orthodox Judaism. Etz Chaim says that success is when a person considers their Jewish identity more valuable, when a person chooses not to intermarry, or when a person does one mitzvah.\nIn 1992, a Lubavitch family advertised and held Jewish services, ceremonies, and celebrations in their house in Baltimore County. Neighbors complained to the local zoning commission, stating that the family were using their home as a synagogue, in direct violation of local zoning laws, parking laws, and noise restrictions. Etz Chaim supported the family, stating that enforcing such laws on a place of worship was unconstitutional.\n\nIn 1992, Etz Chaim supported detailed recommendations regarding Jewish celebrations that restricted kiddush to only one hot dish, cake, and drinks, while a b'nai mitzvah or wedding celebration may have up to two hot dishes. The recommendations stated that all religious celebrations be held only at a synagogue itself or a synagogue's facilities.\n\nIn 1993, Etz Chaim honored Marc Hurwitz for his working helping college students discover or maintain their Jewish identities and fighting assimilation on college campuses.\n\nIn 1998, Etz Chaim moved its headquarters from Northeast Baltimore to Center City Baltimore.\n\nIn 2001, a bill was proposed to prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation with regard to public accommodations, housing, and employment in Maryland. Etz Chaim opposed the bill, stating that Orthodox Judaism opposes homosexuality.\n\nIn 2001, a choir of 61 mixed-gender students in third through fifth grades prepared to sing at a Jewish food and life expo. When Etz Chaim was asked whether it was religiously appropriate for female and male children to sing together, Etz Chaim determined the performance should not go forward.\n\nOn February 6, 2002, a fire destroyed the Etz Chaim Center for Jewish Studies. A teenager was arrested and charged with arson. With money from its insurance carrier and several donors, Etz Chaim was able to rebuild. The new, larger facility included a Shabbaton center, coffee shop, and library, and it was dedicated in June 2015.\n\nEtz Chaim is under the direction of Rabbi Shlomo Porter. Rabbi Porter has led the organization since 1981. Originally from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Rabbi Porter graduated from Ner Israel Rabbinical College.\n\nEtz Chaim's national headquarters in located in Baltimore, Maryland, with other locations in Owings Mills, Maryland, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and Washington, D.C.\n\n"}
{"id": "9903238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9903238", "title": "Faith, Science and Understanding", "text": "Faith, Science and Understanding\n\nFaith, Science, and Understanding is a book by John Polkinghorne which explores aspects of the integration between science and theology. It is based on lectures he gave at the University of Nottingham and Yale and on some other papers.\n\nIt was published in 2000 by Yale University Press and issued in paperback in 2001 . There are 17 citations in Google Scholar \n\nIn 1. Theology in the University Polkinghorne suggests that \"the essential purpose of a University is the discovery and propagation of knowledge\"(p4) and that universities are institutionalised expressions of the beliefs in the value of knowledge for knowledge's sake and the essential unity of all knowledge. He says that quantum theory illustrates the principle \"Do not make common sense the measure of everything but be prepared to recognise aspects of reality in those modes that are intrinsic to their natures, however strange these modes may at first sight be.\"(p7). He argues that personal experience is a fundamental aspect of reality and that the human intuition of an infinite Reality is another fact about humanity and that one of the roles of theology is the intellectual study of the religious dimension of personal experience (p19), whilst theological metaphysics can offer a more profound understanding of reality (p22)\n\nIn 2. Motivations for Belief he rejects simplistic accounts of science, commending instead the approach of Michael Polanyi. He points out that the laws of nature operate all the time, but that understanding is only possible if we have access to regimes that are particularly transparent to our enquiry (p36) and suggests that God is always there, but there have been particular moments in history that have been unusually open to the divine presence, and that Scripture is \"evidence\", the record of foundational spiritual experience (p37). He expounds the doctrine of the Trinity and commends John Zizioulas's \"Being as Communion\".\n\nIn 3. The Role of Revelation he suggests that \"revelation bears an analogy with the role played by observations and experiment in science\" and that the pursuit of simplicity through studying extreme conditions (such as Deep inelastic scattering) is an important part of science. He also suggests that the fact that the Bible is still read with attention and spiritual profit by so many people so long after it was written is a fact that should be taken into account. (p56)\n\nIn 4. Design in Biology? he discusses the Anthropic Principle and in addition to the well-explored physicist perspective he commends the explorations of Michael Denton of properties of the physical world that seem to be tuned to life's necessities and the Nobel-prizewinner Christian de Duve's assertion \"to Monod's famous sentence 'The universe was not pregnant with life, nor the biosphere with man,' I reply: 'You are wrong. they were.'\" and also discusses with caution Michael Behe's claims about irreducible complexity.\n\nIn 5. Second Thoughts he modifies some of his earlier positions somewhat, especially in relation to multiverse theory.\n\nIn 6. Kenotic Creation and Divine Action he discusses Arthur Peacocke and the nature of causality\n\nIn 7. Natural Science Temporality and Divine Action he identifies \"four different metascientific accounts of the nature of time, each claiming to derive from contemporary physics\"\n\nIn 8. Contemporaries he discusses the ideas of Wolfhart Pannenberg, Thomas F. Torrance and Paul Davies\n\nIn 9. Science and Theology in England he sketches \"the long English history of interaction between theology and science\" from Robert Grosseteste via Francis Bacon, Thomas Browne and Robert Boyle, citing Charles Kingsley, Aubrey Moore and Frederick Temple who \"all played an important part in welcoming the insights of Charles Darwin\" and noting that the great British physicists of the 19th Century \"Faraday, Maxwell, Kelvin and Stokes were all men of deep religious faith\" (p198). He \"feels that every German theologian writes with Kant looking over one shoulder and Hegel looking over another\" whereas the English \"tend to enjoy a more relaxed relationship with philosophy\"(p202)\n\n"}
{"id": "31141521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31141521", "title": "Falsism", "text": "Falsism\n\nA falsism is a claim that is clearly and self-evidently wrong. A falsism is usually used merely as a reminder or as a rhetorical or literary device. An example is \"pigs can fly\". It is the opposite of a truism.\nA falsism is similar to, though not the same as, a fallacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "14174684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14174684", "title": "Family honor", "text": "Family honor\n\nFamily honor (or honour) is an abstract concept involving the perceived quality of worthiness and respectability that affects the social standing and the self-evaluation of a group of related people, both corporately and individually. The family is viewed as the main source of honor and the community highly values the relationship between honor and the family. The conduct of family members reflects upon family honor and the way the family perceives itself, and is perceived by others. Family honor can be dependent upon many factors and areas that are affected by family honor include multiple aspects of lifestyle such as social status, religion, clothing, eating, education, job or career, ownership such as real estate, and marriage.\n\nPeople who live in cultures of honor, perceive family as the central institution in their society and a person's social identity depends largely on their family. Therefore, it is important for these individuals to fulfill expectations of family and society in order to be accepted by their family and experience feelings of belonging to this central institution that they are tied to through birth or marriage. In some cultures, maintaining family honor is perceived as more important than either individual freedom, or individual achievement.\n\nThe ideology and practice of family honor varies from country to country. Individuals of certain cultures are often unaware or discerning in their understanding of differing cultural traditions. Many fail to grasp the concept of honor as the basis for traditions such as defending one's honor or their family's. Some cultures value family honor more than others. Many times a family's honor may overpower the actions or beliefs of the individual. However, a theme that is common within many traditions is the respecting of elders. Children of the family are to respect their elders who have earned what some call a \"badge of 'honor'\" representative of their age. Once an individual has lived throughout life for several years, they have earned this badge of honor and should be shown respect teaching their young the cultural traditions that have deemed them honorable.\nAn individual is considered as honorable based on his/her behaviors and characteristics he or she displays that the society deems to be worthy of honor. In addition, honor also entails the aspect of how high of a position an individual holds in relation to the group and how much he or she is respected by others.\n\nOne of the ideals of family honor is social class. Social class can be defined as a group of people categorized into a hierarchy based on the amount of money they have accumulated, how much education they have received, and the amount of power they hold within society, amongst other variables. People who play similar roles within society tend to have similar outlooks. Social standing affects the way in which families form. It determines how and who a person mates with, how they raise their children, and how people relate to one another.\n\nHistorically, honor is a quality ascribed to an individual in two ways: either by obtaining it through his or her birth into an honorable family or being assigned as honorable by powerful people who hold higher status in the society. An individual's parental lineage, is the traditional source for his or her honor. Because honor is passed through paternal lineage in most patrilineal cultures, these societies historically considered having sons as a source of pride and honor. For example, in the Moroccan culture, it is still a preference among women to have sons instead of daughters. Morocco is a typical patrilineal society in which the son has a more important function for the family such as the son supports his parents once they have aged compared to the daughter who will marry into a different group becoming a loss to the family. In such societies men also hold more sexual rights compared to women besides the supportive role men obtain from caring for their aging parents. Females in these societies are perceived as threats to family honor.\n\nWithin cultures, honor is an important and highly esteemed theme. It can be maintained through living up to one's word and promises, providing for the family, and keeping a certain social status. Honor can be affected by both men and women through ways in which a man heightens his family's honorable status, and a woman can shame her family through disapproved actions. Ensuing constant pressure to uphold her family's honor, a woman can suffer psychological and social damage.\n\nThe different effects honor instills upon men and women can be seen in the ancient world, where women and men played contrasting roles in society. Men displayed their honorable roles in public while women were restricted to the limitations of their households. While in public, women were required to avoid conversations with estranged men while only visiting places frequented by women. In the present Islamic culture, men hold a higher social status, but they also carry more responsibility in caring and providing for their family. If a man is single or childless his place in society does not waver or become lower. A woman should have a family whom she stays faithful to and respectful towards at all times. A man's actions will not greatly affect or hurt his family's standing like a woman's actions would. Women are perceived as vulnerable individuals who must be kept safe at all times. This aspect of a woman's characterization comes from her fertility and role within her family.\n\nSocieties in which \"family honor\" is considered highly important generally place a correspondingly high degree of restriction of the freedom of women. In these cultures, a family may defend its honor, or may seek reparation or revenge if the family honor is perceived to have been abused or treated with disrespect. In Ancient Rome, sexual activity of married women outside of their marriage was seen as dishonor to the family and it was legal for men to kill their wives or married daughters that shamed the family through adultery. Reasoning for the designation of women to private and/or nonmale areas comes from the ancient tradition of a woman's place in the world. Women are not seen as independent individuals, but rather extensions of their male counterparts' identity and honor.\n\nBecause the approval of honor is dependent upon the recognition of others, during ancient times individuals worked hard for the approval of their peers within their societal cultures. This meant that individuals were more likely to behave like their honorable counterparts. Groups reinforced what it meant to be honorable through various expected behaviors and goals placed amongst individual members. This discouraged members from any negative activity that may have adversely affected a group or family's honor. In the event that the leader of the group promoted actions that did not appear to be honorable on a larger societal scale, the leader then offered some explanation defending their actions which lead to the preservation of what they defined as honor and their traditions forever.\n\nIn Ancient Rome, chastity and loyalty of members of a family was an important factor contributing to family honor in addition to social standing and accomplishments of that family. For example, if a married woman committed adultery, her father had the legal right to kill her whereas her husband was required to divorce her. If the husband chose not to divorce his wife, he would jeopardize his honor and be labeled as a pimp.\n\nIn some cultures with strong principles of family honor, offspring are not free to choose a partner for themselves but may instead be expected to enter into an arranged marriage or if the offspring resists, into a forced marriage or child marriage.\n\nThe use of violence may be collective in its character, where many relatives act together. Males and females in this type of honor culture may act as either persecutors and the oppressed, for instance a son in a family may be forced to enter into an arranged marriage by his older relatives while controlling his sisters.\n\nThe aspects of family honor mentioned above differ throughout varying cultures and countries. Family honor in the Bedouin and other Middle Eastern cultures consists of interdependent forms of ird and sharaf. Ird is the honor of a woman she is born with which involves her chastity and continence whereas sharaf is the honor code for men which depends on ird of women in the family. Due to its connection to ird, sharaf includes protecting ird of the family members. The adherence to these gender-specific honor codes is important to keep the respectability and sexual honors of the family, particularly men, known as namus. For example, the sexual relationships of a girl are seen in these societies to make her impure and of lesser value, which affects her eligibility for marriage. Public knowledge and gossip about sexual impurity or adultery are proposed to be the main reasons that loss of family honor can bring shame to the family. Preservation of family honor is not only important for respectability of family members in society but also affects the fate of all family members. To protect family honor and dignity, families may resort in killing the woman who is involved in the dishonorable act. In an associated context, to protect the purity and chastity of young girls, families may decide to practice female genital mutilation, a practice that removes or damages female genital organs to assure that sex will not be pleasurable. A mutilated woman is changed so that she has no desire to engage in sexual activity that may undermine the family's honor.\n\nAn example of this can be seen in Sierra Leone, Africa where young girls are mutilated every year. The number of girls mutilated in Africa per year has risen to 3 million. Rugiatu Turay, founder of the Amazonian Initiative Movement, protects young girls from being circumcised by other women in secret societies like Sande and other female practitioners who still engage in the ceremonial tradition today. Girls as young as the age of five assist in the mutilation of other young girls in the country. At the age of 12, Turay was snatched by female family members, held down and had her clitoris cut off with a knife. She was beaten, forced to walk, and had hot pepper water poured in her eyes. As she was mutilated, the women sang, danced, and clap ceremoniously. According to these women, Turay had become a woman. However, females are generally mutilated under the age of 15. Girls who are trained to assist in this ceremony are trained as young as five years old. Turay has convinced 400 practitioners to stop the practice of female mutilation, but 97 million females have been mutilated within the country and the numbers remain constant, even increasing. The practice has been enforced by politicians within the country and locals refer to the practice as a ceremony that initiates womanhood, prepares females for marriage, and restricts their sexual conduct.\n\nFamily honor is a highly valued concept known as namus in Turkey and it is linked to female modesty, chastity, and family reputation among other families, as well as loyalty.\n\nAn ideology of preserving family honor is deeply rooted is society and is not affected by high levels of education. Many women in Turkey are well educated but still are expected to be modest and sexually pure in order to preserve the honor of their families. If a family's honor is breached, it brings shame to the entire family. In such cases, traditionally the family would decide the fate of the female that brought shame. This might involve forcing the young woman into a shotgun wedding, while in extreme cases a young male in the family was given the duty to cleanse the family name through an honor killing. With recent changes to criminal law that removed reduced sentences for honor killings, females that brought shame to the family are sometimes forced to commit honor suicides by their families, especially in the predominantly Kurdish South-East regions, a region that greatly values traditions. Families who do not want their sons to face possible incrimination have encouraged their daughters to commit suicide. The number of female suicides over the years has increased greatly. Stories have surfaced revealing girls who are given tools with which to kill themselves such as rope to hang themselves, poisons to drink, or a gun to shoot themselves. Some murders have also been disguised as suicides in order to protect family members. Female family members are not the only ones that may be punished to preserve family honor. It is proposed that the death of a male homosexual physics student, Ahmet Yildiz, was an honor killing.\n\nMembers of the Republican People Party have stated that in the six months preceding Hatice Firat's death a woman had been killed every day because of domestic violence.\n\nSimilar to the South African and Turkish culture, family is a central value for Asian societies. Asian families are usually multi-generational, patriarchal and self-sufficient structures strongly bound to traditions. For instance, in India touching feet of relatives and elderly is a ritual to express respect and submission. However, family honor entails different components depending on the continental region. For example, family honor is strongly linked to female chastity in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India in a similar fashion to Middle Eastern and Mediterranean societies. Whereas men threaten family honor by extreme actions such as murder and addiction, females may dishonor family by leaving the house too often or having unnecessary conversations with men. Sikh women need to be modest and reserved to be considered honorable; even rape is seen as a major insult to family honor. Cultures near the Middle East also consider involuntary sexual assaults dishonorable and shameful.\n\nContrastingly in other Asian cultures, especially for families in South Asia and the Far East, family honor depends on other factors such as education. Academic success of a student is seen as a source of pride and honor for the Asian family. Therefore, both the Asian student and the parents work hard to avoid academic failure which brings shame to the family. In the past, honor in East Asia was also linked to success in the battlefield. In Japan, for example, ritualized suicide practices such as harakiri were committed by Japanese samurai for centuries in the event of a defeat in battle. Instead of being captured or living with the shame of defeat, harakiri was committed in order to preserve the honor of their families.\n\nIn Europe, similar to traditional practices in South Africa, honor relates to different concepts depending on the geographic area; whereas honor is strongly linked to family reputation in the Mediterranean countries, in Northern Europe it has a more individualized meaning that is focused on personal accomplishments and qualities. Similar to gender-specific family honor codes in the Middle East, Mediterranean nations also traditionally exhibit such codes; women are seen as honorable by their chastity whereas men are seen as honorable by their productivity, toughness, and by protecting the honor of the women. In Italy, infidelity of women was seen dishonorable, thus crimes of passion were classified as second-degree murders until the 1970s. Although Western and Northern European nations traditionally have a more individualistic approach to honor, there have been an increase in honor killings or crimes of passion within their borders by immigrant populations residing in these countries. The European culture also served as a basis for American traditions of honor as well.\n\nIn mainly Muslim Kosovo, the impact on family honor of admitting one has been raped, has discouraged some women from applying for compensation as victims of atrocities committed during the 1998-99 war with Serbia.\n\nIn Denmark, the migration authority published that 24% of immigrants of non-Western heritage and their offspring of ages 18-29 were limited in their choice of partner by their relatives. The report showed a higher incidence for women than men and in areas with high concentrations of migrants, 59% were limited in choice of partner. Of migrant women who lived in high-concentration areas, fewer of those in education or employment were limited. Of migrant women who live in areas with a low share of migrants, 22% were limited in partner choice. It was also shown that migrant youth are more limited if their social circles only comprises other migrants when it came to choosing a partner.\n\nIn 2018, an investigation into court cases involving domestic violence against children showed that 47% of the cases involved parents who were both born abroad. According to a researcher at Norwegian Police University College the over-representation was due to cultural (honor culture) and legal differences in Norway and foreign countries.\n\nThe Swedish National Police Board and the Swedish Prosecution Authority define honor related crime as crimes against a relative who, according to the perpetrator and his family's point of view has disohonoured the family honor. These crimes are intended to prevent the family honor being damaged or to restore damaged or lost family honor.\n\nThe most serious honor related crime is often organised and deliberate. Incidents include torture, forced suicides, forced marriages, rapes, kidnapping, assault, mortal threats, extortion and protecting a criminal.\n\nIn a 2009 study by the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society (MUCF), about 70 000 individuals of ages 16-25 stated they could not freely choose whom to marry. The MUCF report is limited to people aged 16-25 and for instance excludes adult women who wish to divorce but are threatened with violence due to family honor. Women in such situations face a greater threat as they are persecuted by both their own extended family and that of the husband. Some women's shelters report that nearly all women who seek refuge with them are fleeing honor based violence. In 2012, the county administrative board of Östergötland got a mandate to coordinate efforts against honor culture-based violence and persecution.\n\nAccording to an investigation of 3000 cases by newspaper Göteborgsposten, the most common scenario are girls being supervised and banned from being outside the home after school hours, who are forced to wear an Islamic veil and girls risking a forced marriage. About 80% of the child victims have been physically abused, most frequently with bare hands but also being beaten with belts or cables. In several cases the children have been burned with kitchen utensils or metal objects.\n\nIn a 2018 interview, researcher Astrid Schlytter stated that polls had shown that a third of all girls with two foreign-born parents faced restrictions in school, are forbidden to have a boyfriend and must be a virgin when they marry and they are not allowed to choose whom they marry. Using patterns of behaviour observed in Denmark, Norway and the UK Schlytter estimated that there were 240 000youth suffer under an honour culture (Swedish: \"hedersförtryck\").\n\nIn the UK, honor crimes include forced marriage and female genital mutilation and honour based crimes disproportionally affect women from ethnic minorities. The number of honor crimes reported to police increased from 3335 in 2014 to 5595 in 2015, an increase of 68%, before a slight drop to 5105 in 2016. Figures published by the Crown Prosecution Service showed that 256 crimes were referred to the CPS by police in 2016-17, about 5% of the cases reported. Of the 256 referrals, 215 lead to prosecutions which resulted in 122 convictions.\n\nThe Old South took honor particularly seriously. Southerners in the Old South held themselves to their own sets of social codes. An affront to a Southerner's honor, if serious enough, was resolved by a duel. Dueling was originally a European custom, later adopted by the United States. Dueling was not technically legal in the United States, but it was difficult to enforce the laws written against it, especially in the Old South. Usually only men engaged in duels; their opponents were men they perceived to be equals. Public opinion for dueling varied: some thought it was a barbaric and backwards custom, while others believed it was a perfectly legitimate way of dealing with affronts to honor.\n\nLooking at the Hispanic community, similar to many of the countries mentioned above, elders are seen as wise and are to be shown respect from other family members. Family members turn to elders for help regularly, and when a family member falls ill wisdom on what should be done to care for the ill family member is searched for within the elders of the family.\n\nMen are the dominant figures within their households and embody a decisive, authoritative role. Contrary to popular belief, women hold as much weight within their homes as their husbands. They are the matriarchs of the family, and the family's health and stability relies on the mother. Although they need to be protected, women are cherished within their families as important figures. \nHispanic families strongly display their emotions towards one another. Family members show that they care and love one another through taking care of each other. They search for reinforcement and support within their own homes more often than they would in today's society. The Hispanic culture has what is called Curanderismo. This is a system in which families consult the help of a religious figure called a curandero who gives medical, psychological, and social advice. Families make offerings unto the curandero such as money, candle lighting, creating metal or wooden offerings (shaped in the form of the body part in need of healing), etc. \nMany families believe that all personal or familial issues should be kept within the home. The Hispanic culture values modesty for all individuals including males and children in addition to females who historically, are expected to behave in a modest fashion. Family members that suffer from mental illnesses are reluctant to inform their family members of this information in fear that their family members will criticize them.\n\nIn the aspect of childbirth, men are required to wait until after the mother has had birth and dressed in a decent manner to visit his wife and newborn child. Mothers typically accompany the new mother during birth. Much like the American culture, Hispanic women take time to rest after childbirth, but traditionally they returned to heavier labor jobs as opposed to jobs normally held by women within society.\n\nIn one country in particular Brazil, the community attempts to divide the upper-class families who are considered honorable from the lower-class families who are seen as a threat to society in Rio de Janeiro. The country defends family honor through the creation of different policies and laws, but this has caused great opposition. Politics has played a major in role in determining the status and meaning of what is considered to be honorable within Brazils’ society.\n\nIn the late 1800s Viveiros de Castro noted an increase in violations of female honor within Brazil at the turn of the century. Women were expanding their roles throughout society which many believed opened doors for women to be taken advantage of and seduced. Viveiros de Castro believed that women's working in factories was a threat to society and morality. Men believed that the new change in opinion amongst women contributed to this new susceptibility. Many men believed that women believed they were freer than they actually were, and because of this the actions of women led them to lose honor because of their lack of dependency on the male gender. The new century had changed the image of how women were historically perceived and portrayed. Certain individuals, a judge by the name of Nelson Hungria (quoted in Sueann Caulfield's book) specifically, labeled a woman's reserved role as the source of her honor which was lost once she branched out into society losing this reserved quality attributed to women. Because women chose to leave the traditional role of being the homemaker they lost the characterization of being innocent and some assumed they were engaging sexual activities.\n\nMichael Herzfeld, an anthropologist, argued that the idea of women losing their chastity derived from those who wished to explain a woman's new role within society. The idea of women expanding their roles outside of the home in society went against the ideas and morals that were upheld centuries before. In order to defend this morality, many highlighted the customs of the past as something that should have been continuously practiced and enforced even in a new modern era.\n\nMany women were subjected to sexual trials in which they were criticized for being dishonorable. Women during this time were similar to their ancestors. They engaged in practices such as sex before marriage, consenting to unions, and taking on the head role within their homes. However, these acts were perceived in an extremely contrasting manner during this period (after World War I). Because of this, many were uncertain of how they should approach the act of preserving sexual honor.\n\nTurning to a different aspect of society that intertwined itself with idea of honor, politics played a major role in defining honor within Brazil. The country attempted to define honor while displaying this view of honor along with the country's traditions to others around the world. In September 1920, King Albert and Queen Elisabeth made a trip to Brazil. This trip sparked major controversy from different parties in the country. Many believed the trip was an attempt to \"Europeanize\" the country. Some viewed the trip as a positive way to show off Brazil the country and its civilization. Others viewed the trip as a negative opportunity in which the culture would attempt to conform to European standards. In doing so, attempts by the upper class would be made to hide Brazil's struggle of poverty which was a main part of its society and culture at the time. With this trip the importance of honor intensified. Before the King and Queen arrived, preparing for the couple included exposing and exercising honor in a manner many believed would promote the division of social classes and international affairs. Those who were responsible for posing as advocates for their country concealed their social class under what was perceived as honorable and behaved as though they themselves were a part of an \"honorable\" class. One of the aspects they displayed were gender ideologies that played a crucial role in differentiating social classes from one another. Natives desired to portray the country the best way possible. In doing so, they defended their families’ traditions and morals and sexual honor.\n\nTowards the end of the 1930s, the definition of honor within Brazilian society has transformed completely. In result, in 1940, a penal code derived definitions of the term honor. Sexual crimes became a breaking of not family honor but \"social customs\". With the Vargas regime (Dictator Getúlio Vargas who ruled from 1937–1945), came a new form or definition of honor. Many attribute the change in the meaning of honor and a devaluing of its meaning to Vargas’ rule. Vargas attributed the aspect of authority to the meaning of honor. Vargas closely tied traditional Brazilian family honor with the aspect of the nation's honor. Through his regime, Vargas intended to create a hierarchy of social, authoritative classes. However, debates over class, and gender in relation to honor and the nation of Brazil continued to take place. Women continued to transform their traditional roles and these changes could not be neglected.\n\n"}
{"id": "275549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275549", "title": "GNU Project", "text": "GNU Project\n\nThe GNU Project () is a free-software, mass-collaboration project, first announced on September 27, 1983 by Richard Stallman at MIT. Its aim is to give computer users freedom and control in their use of their computers and computing devices, by collaboratively developing and providing software that is based on the following freedom rights: users are free to run the software, share it (copy, distribute), study it and modify it. GNU software guarantees these freedom-rights legally (via its license), and is therefore free software; the use of the word \"free\" always being taken to refer to freedom.\n\nIn order to ensure that the \"entire\" software of a computer grants its users all freedom rights (use, share, study, modify), even the most fundamental and important part, the operating system (including all its numerous utility programs), needed to be free software. According to its manifesto, the founding goal of the project was to build a free operating system and, if possible, \"everything useful that normally comes with a Unix system so that one could get along without any software that is not free.\" Stallman decided to call this operating system \"GNU\" (a recursive acronym meaning \"GNU's not Unix\"), basing its design on that of Unix, a proprietary operating system. Development was initiated in January 1984. In 1991, the Linux kernel appeared, developed outside the GNU project by Linus Torvalds, and in December 1992 it was made available under version 2 of the GNU General Public License. Combined with the operating system utilities already developed by the GNU project, it allowed for the first operating system that was free software, commonly and erroneously known as Linux.\n\nThe project's current work includes software development, awareness building, political campaigning and sharing of the new material.\n\nRichard Stallman announced his intent to start coding the GNU Project in a Usenet message in September 1983.\n\nWhen the GNU project first started they had an Emacs text editor with Lisp for writing editor commands, a source level debugger, a yacc-compatible parser generator, and a linker\". The GNU system required its own C compiler and tools to be free software, so these also had to be developed. By June 1987, the project had accumulated and developed free software for an assembler, an almost finished portable optimizing C compiler (GCC), an editor (GNU Emacs), and various Unix utilities (such as codice_1, codice_2, codice_3, codice_4 and codice_5). They had an initial kernel that needed more updates.\n\nOnce the kernel and the compiler were finished, GNU was able to be used for program development. The main goal was to create many other applications to be like the Unix system. GNU was able to run Unix programs but was not identical to it. GNU incorporated longer file names, file version numbers, and a crashproof file system. The GNU Manifesto was written to gain support and participation from others for the project. Programmers were encouraged to take part in any aspect of the project that interested them. People could donate funds, computer parts, or even their own time to write code and programs for the project.\n\nThe origins and development of most aspects of the GNU Project (and free software in general) are shared in a detailed narrative in the Emacs help system. (C-h g runs the Emacs editor command describe-gnu-project.) It is the same detailed history as at their web site.\n\nThe GNU Manifesto was written by Richard Stallman to gain support and participation in the GNU Project. In the GNU Manifesto, Stallman listed four freedoms essential to software users: freedom to run a program for any purpose, freedom to study the mechanics of the program and modify it, freedom to redistribute copies, and freedom to improve and change modified versions for public use. To implement these freedoms, users needed full access to code. To ensure code remained free and provide it to the public, Stallman created the GNU General Public License (GPL), which allowed software and the future generations of code derived from it to remain free for public use.\n\nAlthough most of the GNU Project's output is technical in nature, it was launched as a social, ethical, and political initiative. As well as producing software and licenses, the GNU Project has published a number of writings, the majority of which were authored by Richard Stallman.\n\nThe GNU project uses software that is free for users to copy, edit, and distribute. It is free in the sense that users can change the software to fit individual needs. The way programmers obtain the free software depends on where they get it. The software could be provided to the programmer from friends or over the Internet, or the company a programmer works for may purchase the software.\n\nProceeds from associate members, purchases, and donations support the GNU project.\n\nCopyleft is what helps maintain free use of this software among other programmers. Copyleft gives the legal right to everyone to use, edit, and redistribute programs or programs' code as long as the distribution terms do not change. As a result, any user who obtains the software legally has the same freedoms as the rest of its users do.\n\nThe GNU Project and the FSF sometimes differentiate between \"strong\" and \"weak\" copyleft. \"Weak\" copyleft programs typically allow distributors to link them together with non-free programs, while \"strong\" copyleft strictly forbids this practice. Most of the GNU Project's output is released under a strong copyleft, although some is released under a weak copyleft or a lax, push-over free software license.\n\nThe first goal of the GNU project was to create a whole free-software operating system. By 1992, the GNU project had completed all of the major operating system utilities, but had not completed their proposed operating system kernel, GNU Hurd. With the release of the Linux kernel, started independently by Linus Torvalds in 1991, and released under the GPL with version 0.12 in 1992, for the first time it was possible to run an operating system composed completely of free software. Though the Linux kernel is not part of the GNU project, it was developed using GCC and other GNU programming tools and was released as free software under the GNU General Public License.\nAs of present, the GNU project has not released a version of GNU/Hurd that is suitable for production environments since the commencement of the GNU/Hurd project over .\n\nToday a stable version (or variant) of GNU can be run by combining the GNU packages with the Linux kernel, making a functional Unix-like system. The GNU project calls this GNU/Linux, and the defining features are the combination of:\n\n\nWithin the GNU website, a list of projects is laid out and each project has specifics for what type of developer is able to perform the task needed for a certain piece of the GNU project. The skill level ranges from project to project but anyone with background knowledge in programming is encouraged to support the project.\n\nThe packaging of GNU tools, together with the Linux kernel and other programs, is usually called a Linux distribution (distro). The GNU Project calls the combination of GNU and the Linux kernel \"GNU/Linux\", and asks others to do the same, resulting in the GNU/Linux naming controversy.\n\nToday most Linux distros combine GNU packages with a Linux kernel which contains proprietary binary blobs and a number of proprietary programs.\n\nThe GNU Free System Distribution Guidelines (GNU FSDG) is a system distribution commitment used to explain what it means for an installable system distribution (such as a Linux distribution) to qualify as free (libre), and help distribution developers make their distributions qualify.\n\nMostly this includes distributions that are a combination of GNU packages with a Linux-libre kernel (a modified Linux kernel, that removes binary blobs, obfuscated code and portions of code under proprietary licenses) and consist only of free software (eschewing proprietary software entirely). Distributions that have adopted the GNU FSDG includes Dragora GNU/Linux-libre, gNewSense, Parabola GNU/Linux-libre, Trisquel GNU/Linux, Ututo, and a few others.\n\nThe Fedora Project distribution license guidelines were used as a basis for the FSDG.\n\nFrom the mid-1990s onward, with many companies investing in free software development, the Free Software Foundation redirected its funds toward the legal and political support of free software development. Software development from that point on focused on maintaining existing projects, and starting new projects only when there was an acute threat to the free software community. One of the most notable projects of the GNU Project is the GNU Compiler Collection, whose components have been adopted as the standard compiler system on many Unix-like systems.\n\nThe GNOME desktop effort was launched by the GNU Project because another desktop system, KDE, was becoming popular but required users to install Qt, which was then proprietary software. To prevent people from being tempted to install KDE and Qt, the GNU Project simultaneously launched two projects. One was the Harmony toolkit. This was an attempt to make a free software replacement for Qt. Had this project been successful, the perceived problem with the KDE would have been solved. The second project was GNOME, which tackled the same issue from a different angle. It aimed to make a replacement for KDE that had no dependencies on proprietary software. The Harmony project didn't make much progress, but GNOME developed very well. Eventually, the proprietary component that KDE depended on (Qt) was released as free software.\n\nGNU Enterprise (GNUe) is a meta-project started in 1996, and can be regarded as a sub-project of the GNU Project. GNUe's goal is to create free \"enterprise-class data-aware applications\" (enterprise resource planners etc.). GNUe is designed to collect Enterprise software for the GNU system in a single location (much like the GNOME project collects Desktop software).\n\nIn 2001, the GNU Project received the USENIX Lifetime Achievement Award for \"the ubiquity, breadth, and quality of its freely available redistributable and modifiable software, which has enabled a generation of research and commercial development\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22352080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22352080", "title": "Gnostic saints (Christian)", "text": "Gnostic saints (Christian)\n\nGnostic saints are a series of historical figures revered in Gnostic Christianity as celebrated in several Gnostic Christian churches. One such list of saints appears in the Collect of the Day of All Gnostic Saints of Ecclesia Gnostica, which reads as follows:\n\"Praise be to Thee, O Father of all Fatherhood, Thou, the unknown God, who was before the fall of the sparks into the darkness of this aeon, for the glorious messengers of the light of Thy everlasting and redeeming Gnosis. Especially do we praise and thank Thee today for the following holy and enlightened teachers and knowers of truth: Valentinus of Rome; Basilides of Antioch; Carpocrates of Alexandria; Bardesanes of Syria; Mani of Babylonia, Martyr; Priscillian of Avila, Bishop and Martyr; Paul of Samosata, Bishop; Peter of Bruys, Martyr; Amalric of Bena; David of Dinan and William of Paris; Bogomil of Dragowitza, Bishop; Peter Waldo of Lyons; Joachim of Flora; Esclaremonde de Foix and the Cathar martyrs; and all the holy souls and wise sages who have in any way or form, under whatsoever guise and appearance attained to and taught the true and ancient Gnosis of God. Grant, O Boundless One, that inspired by and following their most noble example we also may see the light of Thy Gnosis and assist in liberating Thy sparks of light from the chains of darkness, ignorance and malice which afflict them in this aeon. \nAmen.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20010781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20010781", "title": "Hans Skjervheim", "text": "Hans Skjervheim\n\nHans Skjervheim (9 October 1926 – 22 February 1999) was a Norwegian philosopher. He was born in Voss.\n\nHe was a research fellow at the University of Oslo from 1963, professor at the Roskilde University from 1968, lector at the University of Bergen from 1969, and professor there from 1982. His work \"Deltakar og tilskodar og andre essays\" (Participant and Onlooker, and Other Essays, 1976) was selected for the Norwegian Sociology Canon in 2009–2011.\n\nThis is a list of Skjervheim's most notable works:\n\n"}
{"id": "33658141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33658141", "title": "Henri Bortoft", "text": "Henri Bortoft\n\nPeter Henri Bortoft (1938 – 29 December 2012) was a British independent researcher and teacher, lecturer and writer on physics and the philosophy of science. He is best known for his work \"The Wholeness of Nature\", considered a relevant and original recent interpretation of Goethean science. His book \"Taking Appearance Seriously: The Dynamic Way of Seeing in Goethe and European Thought\" was published in 2012.\n\nBortoft completed his studies at the University of Hull, and then performed postgraduate research on the foundations of quantum physics at Birkbeck College, where theoretical physicist David Bohm introduced him to the problem of wholeness in quantum theory. Subsequently, Bortoft worked with John G. Bennett on Bennett's \"Systematics\" (also known as Multi-Term Systems), which was Bennett's methodology for assisting the systematic and progressive understanding of systems, complexity, and wholeness, and on efforts with Bennett and with Kenneth W. Pledge to develop a formal language that was rigorouly descriptive of scientific activity. Those efforts were published in \"Systematics: The Journal of the Institute for the Comparative Study of History, Philosophy and the Sciences\", listed below.\n\nBortoft taught physics and philosophy of science at Schumacher College in the framework of the program in \"Holistic Science\". He held numerous lectures and seminars in Great Britain and the United States on the scientific work of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and on the development of modern science.\n\nBortoft died on 29 December 2012 at his home in Matlaske, Norfolk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37187556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37187556", "title": "Ishida Baigan", "text": "Ishida Baigan\n\nIshida Baigan (October 12, 1685 - October 29, 1744) was a Japanese lecturer and philosopher who founded the Shingaku movement (heart learning) which advocated all education include teachings in ethics and morality.\n\nHis life work in today's perspective has been summarized with the Confucian idea that a man that cannot control his home cannot control his nation. This idea helped motivate many Japanese reformists fighting for Japanese feminists, human, and people's rights.\n"}
{"id": "18338441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18338441", "title": "Jalandhara Bandha", "text": "Jalandhara Bandha\n\nJalandhara Bandha (IPA:/ɟɐːl̺n̺d̺ʱɐrɐ bɐndʱɐ/; , IAST: Jālandhara bandha) is the chin Bandha described and employed in Hatha Yoga.\n\nJālandhara bandha comes from Sanskrit. Jāla means web or \"net\" and dhara () means \"holding\". Bandha () means \"bond; contracting\".\n\nIt is performed by extending the neck and elevating the sternum (breastbone) before dropping the head so that the chin may rest on the chest. Meanwhile the tongue pushes up against the palate in the mouth. \n\n"}
{"id": "47304717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47304717", "title": "Jaliyat al-Kadr", "text": "Jaliyat al-Kadr\n\nJāliyat al-Kadr (, ) is a supplicatory poem where God is implored through the Prophet Muhammad and his companions who fought alongside him in the Battles of Badr and Uhud. It was written by Ja’far b. Ḥasan b. ‘Abd al-Karīm b. al-Sayyid Muḥammad b. ‘Abd al-Rasūl al-Barzanjī, the Shafite Mufti of Medina and author of the Mawlid al-Barzanjī. The Jāliyat al-Kadr was written in the 18th century when the Ottoman empire was in decline and the Muslim world was in a state of political and intellectual upheaval. It is an example of a Sunni devotional work on intercession.\n\nThe Jāliyat al-Kadr has four sections:\n\nA known commentary of Jāliyat al-Kadr is \"al-ʿArā’is al-Wāḍiḥa al-Gharar fī Sharḥ al-Manẓūma al-Badriyya\" by ‘Abdul Hādi Najā al-Abyārī (d. 1888).\n\nAl-Sayyid Muhammad Alawi al-Maliki (d. 2004) annotated and released an edition of the Jāliyat al-Kadr in the 80s.\n\nIn 2015, Manaqib Press published the first English translation of Jāliyat al-Kadr. It was translated by Abdul Aziz Ahmed and redacted by Amjad Mahmood.\n\nTraditionally, Jāliyat al-Kadr is recited on the 17th of Ramadan, at the completion of the Qur'an and at general gatherings of remembrance. In Dar al-Mustafa, it is recited at `Aṣr on the 17th of Ramadan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29129176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29129176", "title": "Kant's antinomies", "text": "Kant's antinomies\n\nImmanuel Kant's antinomies, from the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", are contradictions which he believed follow necessarily from our attempts to conceive the nature of transcendent reality.\n\nKant thought that certain of his antinomies (God and Freedom) could be resolved as \"Postulates of Practical Reason\". He used them to describe the equally rational-but-contradictory results of applying the universe of pure thought to the categories or criteria, i.e. applying reason proper to the universe of sensible perception or experience (phenomena). Empirical reason cannot here play the role of establishing rational truths because it goes beyond possible experience and is applied to the sphere of that which transcends it.\n\nKant's antinomies are four: two \"mathematical\" and two \"dynamical\". They are connected with (1) the limitation of the universe in respect of space and time, (2) the theory that the whole consists of indivisible atoms (whereas, in fact, none such exist), (3) the problem of free will in relation to universal causality, and (4) the existence of a necessary being.\n\nThe first two antinomies are dubbed \"mathematical\" antinomies, presumably because in each case we are concerned with the relation between what are alleged to be sensible objects (either the world itself, or objects in it) and space and time. The second two are dubbed \"dynamical\" antinomies, presumably because the proponents of the thesis are not committing themselves solely to claims about spatio-temporal objects.\n\nNOTE: Kant himself did not use the plural term, \"antinomies,\" but only the singular term, \"Antinomy,\" as the logical status of a species of metaphysical argument. There is Antinomy, and Kant argued in detail regarding four cases of Antinomy in his Critique of Pure Reason (1780).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6182652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6182652", "title": "List of teachers of Advaita Vedanta", "text": "List of teachers of Advaita Vedanta\n\nAdvaita Vedanta is in Guru-Shishya parampara.\n\nSeeds of Advaitic thoughts are seen in the Rgveda. However, the credit for making it a systematic, logical philosophical system goes to Sankara Bhagavatpada. Names of the Acaryas who have contributed significantly to Advaita Vedanta has to be recorded for posterity. This article strives to document as many of them as possible, with list of their work.\n\nThe canonical texts taught and studied in Advaita Vedanta are the Upanishads, the Bhagavad-Gita, and the Brahmasutra. Brahmasutra is authored by Badarayana (around 400 BC). The concept of Advaita was available even before Badarayana's period. He has referred to the earlier Advaita Acaryas in his Brahmasutra..\n\nAdi Shankaracharya was the most prominent in the tradition of Advaita Vedanta to formulate its doctrine in his many works.\n\n\nWorks of these Advaita Acharyas are not available now, but were quoted by Badarayana.\n\n\nWorks of the following Acharyas are available and are still being taught and studied.\n\n\n\nSankara Bhagavadpada had established four Mathas in the North, West, East, and South, to facilitate teaching of Advaita Vedanta, and maintain dharma. He had entrusted his four disciples to each of these four Mathas. Some of the famous and current Mathadhipatis titled 'Sankaracharyas' are listed below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47686300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47686300", "title": "Lyricism", "text": "Lyricism\n\nLyricism is a quality that expresses deep feelings or emotions in an inspired work of art.\n\nLyricism is when art is expressed in a beautiful or imaginative way, or when it has an expressive quality. Although the term lyricism is often used in conjunction with art composed of sound alone, it can also apply to all forms of art including performance, architecture, or film.\n\nAlthough it is impossible to define beauty, emotion, or imagination in a definitive manner, it is possible to draw upon examples of works that may share those characteristics in both subtle and dramatic ways. The following are some classic examples of lyricism:\n\n"}
{"id": "33014404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33014404", "title": "Mario Vella", "text": "Mario Vella\n\nMario Vella (Born 1953) is a major Maltese philosopher, economist and political theorist. His area of specialisation in philosophy is chiefly critical analysis.\n\nVella was born to a Maltese family at Tripoli, Libya, and lived his boyhood within an Italian community there. He started his education at a Catholic school in Tripoli, then returned to Malta with his family and attended De La Salle College at Cottonera.\n\nVella studied philosophy at the University of Malta, social economy with a major in sociology at the University of London, and international economic politics at Berlin’s University of Humboldt, in former East Germany.\n\nIn Malta, after teaching Italian and sociology in public elementary schools, Vella taught political economy and social development at the University of Malta.\n\nVella is also a living lecturer in foreign direct investment and development at the University of Urbino, Italy. He was Chief Executive Officer of the Malta Development Corporation, and is Director of the foreign direct investment consulting services at Grant Thornton in Malta. Vella is further a member of the international faculty of the Postgraduate School of Economics and International Relations. He is politically active, serving, for some time, as President of the Labour Party in Malta.\n\nIn 2013, Vella was appointed Chairman of Malta Enterprise. In June 2016 it was announced that Vella would be taking up the role of Governor of the Central Bank of Malta.\n\nVella’s philosophical publications are few but significant. The following might be considered his most representative\n\nThe following is Vella's major philosophical book to date. When published, the book was quite exceptional for it uncharacteristically dealt with the analysis and criticism of another Maltese philosopher, and a living one at that. Apart from Angelo Pirotta's investigation into the philosophy of Anastasio Cuschieri in the early 20th century, it seems that Maltese philosophers are reluctant to so take on, at least so directly, other living philosophers (or even dead ones, for that matter). Vella had certainly created an encouraging precedent.\n\n\nOf course, the following are not the only articles published by Vella. Nevertheless, these might be the most philosophically engaging. On must bear in mind that Vella is a regular contributor to \"The Times of Malta\" and also has his own blog.\n\n\nSometimes Vella ventures to publish some of his poetry or short stories in Maltese or in English. One example would be those in \"Wara r-Repubblika\" (1979). However, this does not seem to be very common. Here is one of his poems:\n\nThough Vella sometimes contributes something of his thought to the following editorial works, of course his personality is seen more in the style and content chosen of these publications.\n\n\nIn part, Vella’s philosophy is deconstructivist, tenaciously exposing the internal conflicts that tend to undercut the asserted meaning of any text. But this is not all. It is also contextualist.\n\nTo Vella’s mind, in order to be acceptable, philosophy must begin from, and build on, the socio-political and historical context. Neither philosophy nor the history of philosophy can rise above power and history. Doing philosophy means taking political positions for or against historically concrete structures of power, and the forces struggling for power within society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917730", "title": "Michel Onfray", "text": "Michel Onfray\n\nMichel Onfray (; born 1 January 1959) is a contemporary French writer and philosopher who defends a hedonistic, epicurean and atheist world view. He is a highly prolific author on philosophy, having written more than 100 books.\n\nHe has gained notoriety for writing such works as \"Traité d'athéologie: Physique de la métaphysique\" (translated into English as \"\"), \"Politique du rebelle: traité de résistance et d'insoumission\", \"Physiologie de Georges Palante, portrait d'un nietzchéen de gauche\", \"La puissance d'exister\" and \"La sculpture de soi\" for which he won the annual Prix Médicis in 1993.\n\nHis philosophy is mainly influenced by such thinkers as Nietzsche, Epicurus, the cynic and cyrenaic schools, and French materialism.\n\nBorn to a family of Norman farmers, Onfray was sent to a weekly Catholic boarding school from ages 10 to 14. This was a solution many parents in France adopted at the time when they lived far from the village school or had working hours that made it too hard or too expensive to transport their children to and from school daily. The young Onfray, however, did not appreciate his new environment, which he describes as a place of suffering. Onfray went on to graduate with a teaching degree in philosophy. He taught this subject to senior students at a high school that concentrates on technical degrees in Caen between 1983 and 2002. At that time, he and his supporters established the \"Université populaire de Caen\", proclaiming its foundation on a free-of-charge basis and on the manifesto written by Onfray in 2004 (\"La communauté philosophique\").\n\nOnfray is an atheist and author of \"Traité d'Athéologie\" (\"\"), which \"became the number one best-selling nonfiction book in France for months when it was published in the Spring of 2005 (the word 'atheologie' Onfray borrowed from Georges Bataille). This book repeated its popular French success in Italy, where it was published in September 2005 and quickly soared to number one on Italy's bestseller lists.\"\n\nIn the 2002 election, Onfray endorsed the French Revolutionary Communist League and its candidate for the French presidency, Olivier Besancenot. In 2007, he endorsed José Bové, but eventually voted for Olivier Besancenot, and conducted an interview with the future French president Nicolas Sarkozy, whom he declared was an \"ideological enemy\" for \"Philosophie Magazine\".\n\nHis book \"Le crépuscule d'une idole : L'affabulation freudienne\" (\"The Twilight of an Idol: The Freudian Confabulation\"), published in 2010, has been the subject of considerable controversy in France because of its criticism of Freud. He recognizes Freud as a philosopher, but he brings attention to the considerable cost of Freud's treatments and casts doubts on the effectiveness of his methods.\n\nIn 2015, he published \"Cosmos\", the first book of a trilogy. Onfray considers ironically that it constitutes his \"very first book\".\n\nOnfray writes that there is no philosophy without self-psychoanalysis. He describes himself as an atheist and considers theist religion to be indefensible. \nOnfray has published 9 books under a project of history of philosophy called \"Counter-history of Philosophy\". In each of these books Onfray deals with a particular historical period in western philosophy. The series of books are composed by the titles I. \"Les Sagesses Antiques\" (2006) (on western antiquity), II. \"Le Christianisme hédoniste\" (2006) (on Christian hedonism from the Renaissance period), III. \"Les libertins baroques\" (2007) (on libertine thought from the Baroque era), IV. \"Les Ultras des Lumières\" (2007) (on radical enlightenment thought), V. \"L'Eudémonisme social\" (2008) (on radical utilitarian and eudomonistic thought), VI. \"Les Radicalités existentielles\" (2009) (on 19th and 20th century radical existentialist thinkers) and VII.\"La construction du surhomme: Jean-Marie Guyau, Friedrich Nietzsche\" (on Guyau´s and Nietzsche´s philosophy in relation to the concept of the \"Übermensch\"). VIII \"Les Freudiens hérétiques\" (2013). IX \"Les Consciences réfractaires\" (2013).\n\nIn an interview he establishes his view on the history of philosophy. For him:\n\nThere is in fact a multitude of ways to practice philosophy, but out of this multitude, the dominant historiography picks one tradition among others and makes it the truth of philosophy: that is to say the idealist, spiritualist lineage compatible with the Judeo-Christian world view. From that point on, anything that crosses this partial – in both senses of the word – view of things finds itself dismissed. This applies to nearly all non-Western philosophies, Oriental wisdom in particular, but also sensualist, empirical, materialist, nominalist, hedonistic currents and everything that can be put under the heading of \"anti-Platonic philosophy\". Philosophy that comes down from the heavens is the kind that – from Plato to Levinas by way of Kant and Christianity – needs a world behind the scenes to understand, explain and justify this world. The other line of force rises from the earth because it is satisfied with the given world, which is already so much.\n\"His mission is to rehabilitate materialist and sensualist thinking and use it to re-examine our relationship to the world. Approaching philosophy as a reflection of each individual's personal experience, Onfray inquires into the capabilities of the body and its senses and calls on us to celebrate them through music, painting, and fine cuisine.\"\n\n He defines hedonism \"as an introspective attitude to life based on taking pleasure yourself and pleasuring others, without harming yourself or anyone else.\" \"Onfray's philosophical project is to define an ethical hedonism, a joyous utilitarianism, and a generalized aesthetic of sensual materialism that explores how to use the brain's and the body's capacities to their fullest extent – while restoring philosophy to a useful role in art, politics, and everyday life and decisions.\"\n\nOnfray's works \"have explored the philosophical resonances and components of (and challenges to) science, painting, gastronomy, sex and sensuality, bioethics, wine, and writing. His most ambitious project is his projected six-volume \"Counter-history of Philosophy\"\", of which three have been published.\n\nFor Onfray:\n\nIn opposition to the ascetic ideal advocated by the dominant school of thought, hedonism suggests identifying the highest good with your own pleasure and that of others; the one must never be indulged at the expense of sacrificing the other. Obtaining this balance – my pleasure at the same time as the pleasure of others – presumes that we approach the subject from different angles – political, ethical, aesthetic, erotic, bioethical, pedagogical, historiographical...\n\nHis philosophy aims for \"micro-revolutions\", or \"revolutions of the individual and small groups of like-minded people who live by his hedonistic, libertarian values.\"\n\nIn \"La puissance d'exister: Manifeste hédoniste\", Onfray claims that the political dimension of hedonism runs from Epicurus to John Stuart Mill through Jeremy Bentham and Claude Adrien Helvétius. What political hedonism aims for is to create \"the greatest happiness for the greatest numbers\".\n\nBlogger J. M. Cornwell praised Onfray's \"Atheist Manifesto: The Case Against Christianity, Judaism, and Islam\", claiming it \"is a religious and historical time capsule\" containing what he sees as \"the true deceptions of theological philosophy\".\n\nRecently he has been involved in promoting the work of Jean Meslier, an 18th-century French Catholic priest who was discovered, upon his death, to have written a book-length philosophical essay promoting atheism.\n\nIn the atheist manifesto, Onfray has said that among the \"incalculable number of contradictions and improbabilities in the body of the text of the synoptic Gospels\" two claims are made: crucifixion victims were not laid to rest in tombs, and in any case Jews were not crucified in this period. Ancient Historian John Dickson, of Macquarie University, has said that Philo of Alexandria, writing about the time of Jesus, says that sometimes the Romans handed the bodies of crucifixion victims over to family members for proper burial. The Roman Jewish historian Flavius Josephus even remarks: \"the Jews are so careful about funeral rites that even malefactors who have been sentenced to crucifixion are taken down and buried before sunset\". Regarding the second claim, Dickson calls this a \"clear historical blunder\".\n\nIn his latest book, \"Décadence\" he argued for Christ myth theory, which is a hypotheses that Jesus was not a historical person. Onfray based this on the fact that, other than in the New Testament, Jesus is barely mentioned in accounts of the period.\n\nOnfray was a high school philosophy teacher for two decades until he resigned in 2002 to establish a tuition-free Université Populaire (People's University) at Caen, at which he and several colleagues teach philosophy and other subjects.\n\n\"The Université Populaire, which is open to all who cannot access the state university system, and on principle does not accept any money from the State -- Onfray uses the profits from his books to help finance it -- has had enormous success. Based on Onfray's book \"La Communauté Philosophique: Manifeste pour l'Université Populaire\" (2004), the original UP now has imitators in Picardy, Arras, Lyon, Narbonne, and Le Mans, with five more in preparation.\" \"The national public radio network France Culture annually broadcasts his course of lectures to the Université Populaire on philosophical themes.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8924150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8924150", "title": "Miguel Ángel Virasoro (philosopher)", "text": "Miguel Ángel Virasoro (philosopher)\n\nMiguel Ángel Virasoro (1900–1966) was an Argentine philosopher.\n\nBorn in Santa Fe, Argentina, in 1900, graduated in law at the University of La Plata. Like many men from his generation came to philosophy through the paths of the academy but for a personal tour of self, an impulse that internal vocation personally selected readings tone of the spiritual atmosphere of the time . He belonged to the generation of 1925, not only by chronology, but also by the philosophical orientation which shaped his thinking at a time with all the enthusiasm and fervor of his youth were part of this age group Astrada, Fatone, Vasallo, Lugones, Borges and others reacted against the positivist and pragmatic features that printed in politics and culture of Argentina. Virasoro himself defined his generation as one that \"For the first time in our history is outlined with sufficient spiritual inner life as to feel determined to an ideal of disinterested culture ...\".These first works that addressed the issue of culture is a valuable contribution to the study of our modern American consciousness \"in the words of Guglielmini, editor of the Early and prologue of his first book A Theory of Self and Culture (1928) that worth the National Prize of Culture and opens the doors of a university professorship. Since then begins to serve as professor in the chair of modern and contemporary philosophy of the UBA. In 1947 he took over the direction of the magazine and is Logos | Report which resulted in the same year which still remains the best version of Being and Nothingness Sartre into Castilian. In 1949 part of the first National Congress of Philosophy held in Mendoza with a presentation \"dialectical existentialism\" which is an excerpt from his original thought. In 1952 he was appointed vice dean of the Faculty of Philosophy and also takes over the leadership of the Department of Philosophy. In 1954 he took over the Argentine Institute of Thought.In 1955 he was expelled for political reasons since 1960 began teaching at several universities in the interior, especially the de Cuyo, in an intense and fruitful activity until his death in 1966. His work earned lofty concepts both at home and abroad, of Benedetto Croce, Alejandro Korn, among others.\n\nThe thought of Virasoro enrolled in the current existentialist revolves around the existential problem in a form of arming go through an intermittent dialogue with Hegel, Heidegger, Nietzsche and often with Eastern philosophy. An armed thinking in dialogue, which is a welcome and a synthesis-oriented reject Hegel, Heidegger notoriously Nietzschean inspiration, whose expression is what he calls \"dialectical existentialism. (Existentialism dialectical, 1958) dialectical Existentialism is a correction of Hegel, the slogan deslogizar because the dialectic is based on the existence whose principle is freedom.In Hegel's Logic (1932), argues that the Hegelian dialectic prefix a field of possibilities that makes the spirit where mechanized activity becoming, rather than an open possibility, diluted as a closed circle of eternal return, and excludes any desire to affair and conquering one's virtue is philosophical. Against this stands the active nature of the spirit that is always right and will, vital impulse of life but does not deny the claims, but does not repress the instincts that leads to full empowerment. But unlike Nietzsche who agrees with this reassessment of the vital forces, proposed ranking them according to their greater or lesser contribution to the implementation of the spirit and therefore the reverse, \"he says of what is happening in contemporary society. This understanding of the dialectical method allows you to recover the right of difference that can not be reduced to the formalism of the synthesis of opposites. While on the ground the outline of competitions, you can not capture the richness of difference.This requires that thought out of itself, requires the intuition that takes the concept of the static tautological. (The metaphysical intuition, 1965) From this perspective the dialectic of opposites becomes existential dialectic, then march toward the concrete, the existence, in which the overcoming of opposites is impossible. In this area, the contradictions are insoluble when overcome in Hegel appears as reconciliation of opposites guaranteed by the necessary evolution, is given here as hiatus, the qualitative leap forward is the land of paradox where opposites coexist, land and carved by Kierkegaard. (Freedom, existence and being, 1942) Thus anchor their thinking in Heidegger for whom consciousness is not something theoretical but emotional. \"temple of spirit\", \"pre-understanding\" original predisposition to anxiety, which is not form but content and not of conscience but of existence. But here again Virasoro corrected: the original is not anxiety born of the awareness of finitude, that which in Sartre and Kierkegaard is expressed as limited awareness of this in every election. Anxiety is just another aspect of the deeper phenomenon that contains: the thirst for being, \"anxiety\", force or impulse that is being itself as an abstract possibility. A conception of being as opposed substance as the impetus, a pure will to be where he does not play any type of need. Freedom, but freedom to be held in permanent tension and implies a sense of being as pure possibility that is actualized in the form of a quota want individual and limited, as the abstract universal being as impotent and needs the body to perform. Major works\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48370334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48370334", "title": "Nickel Leung", "text": "Nickel Leung\n\nNickel Leung (梁迦傑博士) is a Hong Kong educator. He founded the first etiquette school there. In an interviews, he said, body language is different in places in the world, while microexpressions are the same across ethnicity and race.\n\nOther than etiquette, Leung teaches memory and ranked No. 32 at the World Memory Championships 2006 – UK.\n\nHe has been interviewed locally in Hong Kong, Macau, as well as internationally.\n\nHe was born in Hong Kong, HKSAR China. He was an exchange student in Australia. A turning point came when his host asked, \"I want to ask from your soul, what do you want？\". He then discovered a talent in public speaking. After accumulating experience in teaching etiquette, he started the first etiquette school in Hong Kong, providing training for major corporations.\n\nHis credentials include: \n\n"}
{"id": "45342569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45342569", "title": "Nigel Rodgers", "text": "Nigel Rodgers\n\nNigel Rodgers (born 1952) is a British writer, environmentalist and critic. \n\nRodgers has a degree in history and history of art from Cambridge University. \nHe is the founder of Pipedown, the Campaign for Freedom from Piped Music, and is a member of the Educational Writers' Group of the Society of Authors.\n\nHe has written 15 books including \"Incredible Optical Illusions\" (Simon & Schuster 1998); \"The Traveller's Atlas\" with John Man and Chris Schüler (1999); \"Hitler\" and \"Churchill\" (Hodder 2001); Philosophers Behaving Badly with Mel Thompson; \"Roman Architecture\" (2006); \"Roman Empire\" (2008); \"Understand Existentialism\" with Mel Thompson (Hodder, 2010); \"Existentialism Made Easy\" with Mel Thompson (Hodder, 2011); \"The Greek World\" (2010); \"The Art and Architecture of Ancient Greece\" (2012); \"Why Noise Matters\" with Arline Bronzaft, Francis McManus, John Stewart and Val Weedon (Routledge 2011); \"The Dandy — Peacock or Enigma?\" and \"The Umbrella Unfurled\" (2013). \nHis latest books are \"Manet: his Life and Work\" (2015) \"The Bruegels\" (2016) and \"The Colosseum\", a guide book-cum-history about Rome's most famous monument, from its inauguration in AD80 to its recent triumphant restoration, published in May 2018. His books have been translated into fourteen languages.\n"}
{"id": "48814803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48814803", "title": "Oscar R. Gómez", "text": "Oscar R. Gómez\n\nOscar R. Gómez (Osy) (born March 9, 1956, in \"Puerto Belgrano\", province of \"Buenos Aires\") is an Argentine writer, psychoanalyst and academic researcher who became renown as an integrator of Tibetan Tantric Buddhism with Western formal sciences and who constituted the first religious organization in Argentina engaged in the Tantric Worship practice in children and adults.\n\nAt 12 he began to study and experiment in Eastern philosophies. He was first initiated in the Rosicrucian Order, then walked through the traditional paths of bhakti yoga and Jnana yoga, and in 1972, he received his initiation into the practice of tantra that lies within tantric buddhism\n\nAlong with his training in Eurasian philosophies and religions, he was being trained in Western biology, philosophy, psychology, psychoanalysis, sociology, and psychobiology.\n\nWith this double training, he developed a method of transmission of the Tantric philosophy that adapts to Western life, free from oriental cultural forms and the superstitions of the people who practiced tantra centuries ago and yet retains its tradition and paradigmatic essence.\n\n\"This philosophy can be transferred faster because there are not many differences with the Western philosophy, which takes the vision of tantra based on the notion of subject developed by the 3rd Dalai Lama, Sonam Gyatso and Grand Kahn Jalaluddin Muhammad Akbar and introduced in Europe by the Jesuit Antonio de Montserrat\". Osy (February, 1995).\n\nOut of this paradigmatic look and (Tantric) source, Osy developed a psychotherapeutic technique of self-knowledge and self-improvement that he called \"Tecnología del deseo\"® —such as others that were developed within the Eranos Circle— and suits the modern life needs: it does not involve mysticism, magic or superstitions, it is based on western and formal knowledge, and it is approachable for all ages and genres, including children and the elder.\n\nIn 1992, after an interview with the fourteenth 14th Dalai Lama in Buenos Aires and together with other students and a coordinator appointed by him, he opened at his home in \"Berazategui (Buenos Aires)\" a space called \"La Casa del Tantra\" to foster integration in the western academic arena what he considers to be the source of existential phenomenology.\n\nIn 1995, within the Argentine Association for Psychobiological Research, he created the Argentine School of Tantra (\"Escuela Argentina de Tantra\"), which is the first and only institution devoted to spread the Tantric philosophy in Argentina. In 2000, driven by a group of Spanish students, he created the School of Tantra in Spain (\"Escuela de Tantra en España\").\n\nStrong advocate of clarity in the transmission of ideas, in his classes, lectures and writings, he does not use terms in languages unknown to the receiver (Sanskrit and Tibetan, for example), which makes his message easily understood and concepts are clearly explained. That is called Enlightenment. To see reality as it is and to call things by their name.\n\nIt is precisely because of this point that he is not willing to give up the name tantra as the source of his knowledge as others have done so and who first called it Age of Enlightenment, existentialism, Gestalt, psychodrama or emotional thought.\n\n“To hold on to the origin of an idea and link it to the subsequent ideas generated out of it allows for an ongoing development of academic knowledge. There is no excuse to rename and self-assign foundational rights on an existing concept by giving it a new name only to collect royalties or to avoid being excluded from a peer group, as it happened to the first Jesuits initiated in Tibetan Tantric Buddhism, who were forced to call themselves \"alumbrados\" or Illuminated of Spain rather than tantric”. Oscar R. Gómez (February, 1995).\n\nDue to Oscar R. Gómez’s input, in July 2005, some initiated in tantric philosophy by him decided to gather to spread his thought and thus created a non-profit foundation called \"Fundación MenteClara\". The official presentation of the foundation took place at a dinner party where the Argentine School of Tantra was celebrating its 10th anniversary.\n\nOn December 18, 2006, members of \"Fundación MenteClara\" —based on Oscar R. Gómez teachings and character— met in a special session to constitute a religious organization called “Culto Tantra”, which is officially registered in Argentina to be practiced publicly and to spread the tantric cult, which was banned in 1959 with the invasion of Tibet by China. As from that date, a large number of followers of different ages, including children and elders, have been initiated in this cult and still practicing.\n\nFrom 1982 to 2001, within the Argentine Association for Psychobiological Research (AAIP for its acronym in Spanish), he devoted to research, teaching and social assistance in the field of mental health. In 1995 he developed the first digital polygraph in Argentina to provide biofeedback therapy for patients with repetitive strain injury (RSI) and neuromuscular disorders.\n\nHe created both a school of Social Psychology —which had two sites: one in the Province of Buenos Aires and another in the city of Buenos Aires— and a school of Therapeutic Accompanying Professionals. Training at both schools was free for students (travel and study material expenses were also aid-funded) in exchange for community aid service in their respective places of residence.\n\nAs director of the AAIP’s research and assistance department, he created a daycare center for patients with mild psychotic disorder in Berazategui, province of Buenos Aires. Patients were treated by professionals from different disciplines who worked pro bono. Monies received from health insurance plans and NGO’s aid programs were allocated in full to cover building expenses, improvements in the quality of patients’ environment and non-medical staff.\n\nAt that time period, he fostered putting into practice HIV assistance and prevention programs in partnership with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, the Ministry of Education from the Republic of Paraguay and the Ministry of Health from the Democratic Republic of Congo. All these social interventions were carried out with the support of the Municipality of Berazategui and the Ministry of Health of the province of Buenos Aires, led by Dr. Juan José Mussi.\n\nAs a result of this track record a variety of mass media accounted for, in 1997 he was appointed by Argentine president, Dr. Carlos Saúl Menem, Director of the Federal Program for People at Social Risk from the Ministry of Social Development. At such capacity, he furthered the Residential Caregiver training program \n\nIn June 2000, all the before mentioned association's activities came to an end due to a financial crisis, the same economic reasons that would take René Favaloro to end his own life.\n\nSeptember 20, 2007: He was invited to lecture at the 2nd Argentine Symposium against all forms of violence and discrimination carried out at the \nUniversidad Tecnológica Argentina – UTN. Such event was:\n\n- Declared of Educational Interest by the Argentine Ministry of Education, Science and Technology\n\n- Declared of Interest by the School of Medicine of the University of Buenos Aires\n\n- Declared of Social Interest Declared by the Buenos Aires City Legislature\n\nIn March 2010, he created the School of Body Psychotherapy as a department within Fundación MenteClara.\n\nAt present, he is a consultant for researchers in the field of theology, sociology, anthropology and philosophy looking to trace and link characters and events in Asia and Europe.\n\nRead at: Academia.edu\n\nRead at: Academia.edu\n\nRead at: Academia.edu\n\n\nAs a result of over 33 years of spreading the knowledge of tantra from an academic perspective, on June 13, 2008, the Organization of the Americas for \nEducational Excellence (ODAEE) awarded him with the title of Doctor Honoris Causa in recognition of his contribution to the development of science and arts\n"}
{"id": "30267894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30267894", "title": "Paul W. Franks", "text": "Paul W. Franks\n\nPaul Walter Franks, is a scholar, writer and professor of philosophy. He graduated with his PhD from Harvard University in 1993. Franks' dissertation, entitled \"Kant and Hegel on the Esotericism of Philosophy\", was supervised by Stanley Cavell and won the Emily and Charles Carrier Prize for a Dissertation in Moral Philosophy at Harvard University. He completed his B.A (First Class) and M.A, in Philosophy, Politics and Economics at Balliol College, Oxford. Prior to this, Franks received his general education at the Royal Grammar School, Newcastle, and studied classical rabbinic texts at Gateshead Talmudical College.\nHis primary areas of research and specialization are Jewish philosophy, Immanuel Kant, German idealism, metaphysics, epistemology, the foundations of human sciences, and post-Kantian approaches within Analytic philosophy and Continental philosophy. He has taught at Indiana University (Bloomington) between 1996 and 2000, University of Notre Dame from 2000 to 2004, the University of Chicago in 2003, and the University of Toronto from 2004 to 2011. Franks has been Faculty Fellow at the Jackman Humanities Institute, University of Toronto; Brackenbury Scholar at Balliol College, Oxford; Lady Davis Graduate Research Fellow at the Hebrew University; Mrs. Giles F. Whiting Dissertation Fellow in the Humanities at Harvard University; Junior Fellow of the Michigan Society of Fellows; and Fellow of the American Council of Learned Societies. \nFranks was appointed as the inaugural holder of the Senator Jerahmiel S. and Carole S. Grafstein Chair in Jewish Philosophy at the University of Toronto in 2008. He was appointed in 2011 to a senior position at Yale University, in New Haven, Connecticut. He teaches in the Department of Philosophy, the Program in Judaic Studies, the Department of Religious Studies, and the Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures.\n\nIn December 2012, Franks gave a lecture entitled \"From Indeterminacy to Idealism\" at the opening of the Forschungskolleg Analytic German Idealism at the University of Leipzig. In 2014, he gave a keynote lecture, “What becomes of Jewish Law in the wake of Emancipation?” at the British Association of Jewish Studies annual meeting in Dublin, Ireland. In 2015, he gave the keynote address, \"Schelling and Maimon on the World-Soul\", at the annual meeting of the North American Schelling Society in Newfoundland, Canada.\n\nFranks currently lives in Riverdale, New York, with his wife, Hindy Najman, who is Oriel and Laing Professor of the Interpretation of Holy Scripture at Oxford University, and their children Ezra and Marianna.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42372856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42372856", "title": "Penelope Deutscher", "text": "Penelope Deutscher\n\nPenelope Deutscher is a professor of philosophy at Northwestern University whose work focuses on French philosophy from the 20th and 21st centuries and gender theory. She has written four books dealing with subjects ranging from gender and feminism to the works of Jacques Derrida, Luce Irigaray, and Simone de Beauvoir. In 2002-3, Deutscher also served as the Lane Professor for the Humanities at the Alice Berline Kaplan Center for the Humanities at Northwestern University.\n\nDeutscher received her bachelor's from the University of Sydney in 1986 and went on to receive a Diplôme des études approfondies at the University of Paris in 1991 and a doctorate in philosophy from the University of New South Wales in 1993. Deutscher served as an associate lecturer in philosophy at the University of New South Wales in 1992 before becoming a lecturer and then senior lecturer in philosophy at the Australian National University from 1992 to 2001. Deutscher moved to Northwestern University in 2002, accepting an appointment as the Lane Professor for the Humanities in 2002-3, and then serving as an associate professor from 2002 to 2008 before being promoted to full professor in 2008. Besides for her permanent appointments, Deutscher also served as the Marie-Jahoda guest professor at Ruhr University Bochum in 2013.\n\nDeutscher has authored five books, including \"Yielding Gender: Feminism, Deconstruction and the History of Philosophy\" (1997), \"A Politics of Impossible Difference: The Later Work of Luce Irigaray\" (2002), \"How to Read Derrida\" (2006), \"The Philosophy of Simone de Beauvoir: Ambiguity, Conversion, Resistance\" (2008), and \"Foucault's Futures: A Critique of Reproductive Reason\" (2017). Deutscher has also edited or co-edited four books, \"Repenser le politique: l’apport du féminisme\" (2004), \"Enigmas: Essays on Sarah Kofman\" (1999), (with Olivia Custer and Samir Haddad) \"Foucault/Derrida Fifty Years Later\" (2016), and (with Cristina Lafont) \"Critical Theory in Critical Times\" (2017). Deutscher has also written a large number of refereed articles, contributed more than 26 book chapters, several encyclopedia articles, and a number of book reviews.\n\nDeutscher's first book, \"Yielding Gender: Feminism, Deconstruction and the History of Philosophy\", engaged the works of Judith Butler and Eve Sedgwick with that of Jacques Derrida to create a novel analysis of the instability of the meaning of \"woman\" throughout the history of philosophy. Deutscher's second book, \"A Politics of Impossible Difference: The Later Work of Luce Irigaray\", provides a close reading of the work of Luce Irigaray, arguing that Irigaray's work stresses the importance of the value of difference, especially those differences that the hegemon is most interested in actively excluding. Deutscher's third book, \"How to Read Derrida\", provides an introduction to the works of Jacques Derrida, focusing on his approach to deconstructionism. \"The Philosophy of Simone de Beauvoir: Ambiguity, Conversion, Resistance\" examines Beauvoir's style of building theory upon theory, arguing that building theories upon each other that simultaneously undermine each other does not diminish the significance or results of the study, and focuses in large part on two of Beauvoir's most significant concepts, sexual and generational alterity.\n"}
{"id": "14257577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14257577", "title": "Peter Verigin", "text": "Peter Verigin\n\nPeter Vasilevich Verigin () often known as Peter \"the Lordly\" Verigin ( - October 29, 1924) was a Russian philosopher, activist and leader of the Community Doukhobors in Canada.\n\nPeter Vasilevich Verigin was born on , in the village of Slavyanka in Elisabethpol Governorate of Russian Empire. The village, located in the north-west of what is today the Republic of Azerbaijan, was one of the settlements founded by the Doukhobors, a large sect of communally living peasants, exiled to the Transcaucasia from Ukraine and southern Russia in the 1840s. His father, Vasily Verigin, was an illiterate, but reportedly rich peasant, who, once elected a village headman, \"showed himself a real despot\".\n\nJune 29 happens to be the Feast of Saints Peter and Paul. Although the Doukhobors don't venerate saints \"per se\", this day - often known as St. Peter's Day () is still a traditional day of celebration, and thus it may have been the case that young Verigin was named after St. Peter.\n\nPeter was one of seven brothers. His four older brothers did not study anything at all, but Peter and two other brothers, Vasily and Grigory, were home-schooled, at least to the extent of learning to read and write. There were no formal schools in Doukhobor villages at the time.\nAt quite a young age, Peter Verigin married Evdokia Georgievna Kotelnikova. In 1882, soon after his marriage, while his wife was expecting their first child (Peter P. Verigin), he started working as a secretary and administrative assistant for the leader of the Transcaucasian Doukhobors, Lukerya Vasilyevna Gubanova (born 18??—died December 15, 1886; ).\nLukerya Gubanova was the widow of the community's previous leader, Peter Kalmykov and was also known as Kalmykova, by her late husband's surname.\n\nThe Kalmykov dynasty resided in the village of Gorelovka, one of Doukhobor communities in Georgia (shown on one of J.J. Kalmakoff's maps.), in the \"Sirotsky Dom\" (), or \"The Orphanage\" - the facility serving as the Doukhobor headquarter, as well as, indeed, home for orphans and the aged.\nLukerya was respected by the provincial authorities, who had to cooperate with the Doukhobors on various matters. While working for her and living at her residence, Verigin received an extensive religious education, and was prepared by childless Lukerya to become her successor as the leader of the Doukhobors. He became acquainted with the Doukhobor ideas of administration - rejecting secular government. The Doukhobors rejected the holiness of Jesus Christ and the Bible, and were naturally pacifists and conscientious objectors who refused to participate in wars and battles.\n\nThe death of \"Queen Lukerya\" in 1886 was followed by a leadership crisis. However, only part of the community (\"the Large Party\"; ) accepted her designated successor, Peter Verigin, as the leader; others, known as \"the Small Party\" (Малая сторона), sided with Lukerya's brother, Michael Gubanov, and the village elder Aleksei Zubkov.\n\nWhile the Large Party was a majority, the Small Party had the support of the older members of the community and the local authorities. So, on January 26, 1887, at the community service where the new leader was to be acclaimed, the police walked in and took Verigin away. He was to spend the next 16 years in government custody. Still, the Large Party Doukhobors maintained contact with him and continued to consider him their spiritual leader.\n\nWhile in exile, Verigin got quite a tour of Russian North. He was first sent to Shenkursk, in Arkhangelsk Governorate (now Arkhangelsk Oblast), in the Russia's north, arriving there in October 1887. In the summer 1890, he was transferred to Kola, on the Barents Sea. It was then Russia's northernmost town, as Murmansk and Polyarny were to be built yet. In November 1894, he left Kola for Obdorsk (now Salekhard) in the north-western Siberia.\n\nIn Shenkursk, Verigin, along with several exiled Doukhobor elders, shared two houses between them. When this small band of Doukhobor exiles was visited by Peter Verigin's brother, Grigory in September 1888, he was somewhat surprised and impressed by their complete vegetarianism, as Grigory's family back in South Caucasus was still eating meat.\nIn November 1894, as he was being transferred from Kola to Obdorsk, Verigin wrote a message to the Doukhobors, asking them to obey God's commandment, \"Thou shalt not kill\", destroy their weapons, and refuse military service. His message was taken to the Caucasus by his brothers Grigory and Vasily, who spread it throughout the Doukhobor communities. Soon, the confrontation between pro-Verigin Pacifist Doukhobors (\"the Large Party\") and the government keen on drafting their youth came to head. On Easter Sunday 1895, eleven Doukhobor conscripts refused to do military training. As days went on, more conscripts laid down their arms and refused further service. Reservists were returning their registration papers to the draft boards. Finally, in the night of June 28–29 (July 10–11 New Style), 1895, - the night before St. Peter's Day, and, incidentally, Verigin's birthday - the Large-Party Doukhobors of Transcaucasia assembled in three villages to burn the weapons they owned, in the event remembered ever since as \"the Burning of the Arms\".\n\nArrests and beatings by government's Cossacks followed. Soon, Cossacks were billeted in many of the Doukhobors' houses, and their original inhabitants were dispersed through remote villages in the region.\n\nHorrified at the plight of his followers, in August 1896 Verigin wrote to Empress Alexandra Fyodorovna, the wife of Nicholas, making a number of proposals to resolve the conflict, such as the resettlement of the Large-Party Doukhobors to some remote province of Russia (assuming that an exemption from military service could still be granted), or emigration to Britain or Canada. Leo Tolstoy and his associates addressed Russian and international public with letters and articles about the persecution of the Doukhobors.\n\nIn 1898, an agreement was reached with the Czar's Minister of the Interior, Ivan Nikolayevich Durnovo, to allow the Doukhobors leave for Canada. Between 1898 and 1899 around 7,500 Doukhobors from Transcaucasia did so. Of them, some 3,300 were the members of the Large Party; the rest belonged to the Small and the Middle Parties. Among them was Verigin's mother, Anastasia Verigina, around 80 years of age at the time. Smaller numbers of Doukhobors, directly from Transcaucasia or from various places of exile, continued moving to Canada in the years to follow.\n\nIn the fall of 1902, after 16 years in exile, Verigin was released from Obdorsk. He visited Leo Tolstoy in October,\n\nVerigin was to visit Russia again, only once. He came in 1906, leading a delegation of 6 Doukhobors, to investigate a possibility of the return of the Doukhobors to Russia, now that, as a result of Russian Revolution (1905), religious tolerance has been legislated. Verigin's delegation met with Stolypin and other ministers, who made an offer of land in the Altai (south-western Siberia) and an exemption from the conscription. Although the offer was personally confirmed by Nicholas II, Verigin felt that, no matter what, the Doukhobors' situation in Russia would not be as secure as in Canada. In March 1907 his delegation went back to Canada.\n\nVerigin established his first Canadian residence at the Doukhobor village of Poterpevshie (, 'The Victims', or perhaps 'The Survivors'), some 15 km northwest of Kamsack, Saskatchewan. On the joyful occasion of reuniting with their leader, the villagers renamed the place Otradnoye (, 'the place of rejoicing'). Otradnoye continued to be Verigin's headquarters until 1904 or 1905 \nThe nearby village of Nadezhda was the site of annual general meetings of the Doukhobor community chaired by him.\n\nWhen the new Canadian Northern Railway line crossed the Doukhobor reserve in 1904 some 10 km south of Otradnoye, a small station named after the Doukhobor leader (initially, \"Veregin Siding\", and after 1908, Veregin Station)\nwas built there around 1904 to serve the needs of the Doukhobor community of the area.\nA village, also named Veregin (sometimes spelled \"Verigin\", at least on Verigin's own CCUB letterhead) was built next to the station, and Veregin's headquarters was shifted there.\n\nIn 1905, the exiled Doukhobors rejected the newly enforced requirements of Dominion Lands Act which attempted to register their communal lands under individual ownership and rebelled against the request. Following this in 1907 the communal land system was abolished and in 1908 Verigin led around 6,000 of his group (Christian Community of Universal Brotherhood, CCUB) to British Columbia. CCUB still continued to own some properties and industrial facilities in Saskatchewan, and its headquarters remained in Veregin for some years to come. Verigin had another residence built for himself near Grand Forks, British Columbia, spending the rest of his life sharing his time between the two provinces.\n\nVerigin was assassinated in a still-unsolved Canadian Pacific Railway train explosion on October 29, 1924 on the Kettle Valley Railway (now known locally as the Columbia and Western Railway) line near Farron, between Castlegar and Grand Forks, which also killed his 17-year-old secretary Marie Strelaeff, member of the provincial legislature John McKie, P.J Campbell, Hakim Singh, Harry J. Bishop, W. J. Armstrong, and Neil E. Armstrong. The government initially (during investigation) had stated the crime was perpetrated by people within the Doukhobor community, while the Doukhobors suspected Canadian government involvement. To date, it is still unknown who was responsible for the bombing.\n\nVerigin's grave is located near Brilliant, a historically Doukhobor village outside Castlegar, British Columbia.\n\nAfter Verigin's murder in 1924, the majority of the community Doukhobors proclaimed his son Peter P. Verigin, who was still in the USSR, as his successor. However, several hundred Doukhobors recognized P.V. Verigin's widow, Anastasia F. Golubova (1885–1965; also spelt Holuboff), who had been Verigin's wife for some 20 years, as their leader.\n\nIn 1926 Anastasia's followers split from CCUB, forming a breakaway organization called \"The Lordly Christian Community of Christian Brotherhood\". They left British Columbia for Alberta, where they set up their own village at Shouldice, near Arrowwood, Alberta, which existed until 1943.\n\nIn the meantime, Peter P. Verigin arrived from the USSR and assumed the leadership of CCUB in 1928.\nAfter the bankruptcy of CCUB, he organized USCC (Union of Spiritual Communities of Christ) in 1938.\n\nWhen Peter P. Verigin died in 1939, the Community Doukhobors proclaimed his son (and P.V.Verigin's grandson) Peter P. Verigin II as their new spiritual leader. But as the latter was in Soviet prisons at the time, it was Peter P. Verigin's grandson (and Peter V. Verigin's great-grandson), the young John J. Verigin who became the de facto leader of USCC.\n\n\nCheck Verigin references on: http://www.larrysdesk.com/\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23720855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23720855", "title": "Rado Riha", "text": "Rado Riha\n\nRado Riha (born 8 October 1948) is a Slovene philosopher. He is a senior research fellow and currently the head of the Institute of Philosophy, Centre for Scientific Research at the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, and coordinator of the philosophy module at the post-graduate study programme of the University of Nova Gorica.\n\nBorn in Ljubljana, former Yugoslavia, he studied philosophy at the University of Ljubljana. In the 1980s, he was part of what was known as the Ljubljana school of psychoanalysis. In the 1970s and 1980s, he was member of the League of Communists of Slovenia. He left the party in October 1988, together with 32 other left wing intellectuals, as a protest against the arrest by Yugoslav military intelligence of the dissident Janez Janša and three other journalists critical of the regime. During the so-called JBTZ trial in 1988, he was an active member of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, the largest non-Communist civil society platform in the Socialist Republic of Slovenia.\n\nRiha's research topics include ethics, epistemology, contemporary French philosophy, the psychoanalysis of Jacques Lacan, and the philosophy of Immanuel Kant. From 1996 to 2003 he has been the editor-in-chief of the journal Filozofski vestnik, and since 1993 a member of its editorial board.\n\nHe is married to the philosopher Jelica Šumič Riha.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "327395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327395", "title": "Tathāgatagarbha sūtras", "text": "Tathāgatagarbha sūtras\n\nThe Tathāgatagarbha sūtras are a group of Mahayana sutras that present the concept of the \"womb\" or \"embryo\" (\"garbha\") of the tathāgata, the buddha. Every sentient being has the possibility to attain Buddhahood because of the \"tathāgatagarbha\".\n\nThis concept originated in India but was a major influence in the development of East Asian Buddhism, where it was equated with the concept of \"Buddhadhātu\", \"buddha-element\" or \"buddha-nature\".\n\nThe Tathāgatagarbha sūtras include the \"Tathāgatagarbha Sūtra\", \"Śrīmālādevī Siṃhanāda Sūtra\", \"Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\" and the \"Aṅgulimālīya Sūtra\". Related ideas are in found in the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" and \"Avataṃsaka Sūtra\". Another major text, the \"Awakening of Faith\", was originally composed in China, while the \"Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\" was considerably extended in China.\n\nThe Sanskrit term \"tathāgatagarbha\" () may be parsed into \"tathāgata\" \"the one thus gone\" (referring to Buddhahood) and \"garbha\" \"root, embryo, essence\".\n\nIn the \"Anguttara Nikāya\", the Buddha refers to a \"luminous mind\".\n\nThe canon does not support the identification of the \"luminous mind\" with nirvanic consciousness, though it plays a role in the realization of nirvana. Upon the destruction of the fetters, according to one scholar, \"the shining nibbanic consciousness flashes out of the womb of arahantship, being without object or support, so transcending all limitations.\"\n\nThough the tathagatagarbha and the Buddha-nature have not exactly the same meaning, in the Buddhist tradition they became equated. In the \"Angulimaliya Sūtra\" and in the \"Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\" the terms \"Buddha-nature\" (\"Buddha-dhātu\") and \"tathāgatagarbha\" are synonyms.\n\nAll are agreed that the \"tathāgatagarbha\" is an immortal, inherent transcendental essence or potency and that it resides in a concealed state (concealed by mental and behavioural negativities) in every single being, even the worst - the icchantika.\n\nAlthough attempts are made in the Buddhist sutras to explain the \"tathāgatagarbha\", it remains ultimately mysterious and allegedly unfathomable to the ordinary, unawakened person, being only fully knowable by perfect Buddhas themselves.\n\nThe \"tathāgatagarbha\" itself needs no cultivation, only uncovering or discovery, as it is already present and perfect within each being:\nCharles Muller comments that the tathagatagarbha is the mind's original pure nature and has neither a point of origination nor a point of cessation: \"'tathagatagarbha\" expresses the already perfect aspect of the original nature of the mind that is clear and pure without arising or cessation.' \n\nThe \"tathāgatagarbha\" is the ultimate, pure, ungraspable, inconceivable, irreducible, unassailable, boundless, true and deathless quintessence of the Buddha's emancipatory reality, the very core of his sublime nature.\n\nKey texts associated with this doctrine, written in India, are the\n\nComparing the tradition of Tathāgatagarbha sūtras to the Yogachara and Madhyamaka schools, Paul Williams writes that this collection appears to have been less prominent in India, but became increasingly popular and significant in Central Asian Buddhism and East Asian Buddhism.\n\nThe \"Tathāgatagarbha Sūtra\" presents the \"tathāgatagarbha\" as a virtual Buddha-homunculus, a fully wisdom-endowed Buddha, \"a most victorious body ... great and indestructible\", inviolate, seated majestically in the lotus position within the body of each being, clearly visible only to a perfect Buddha with his supernatural vision. This is the most \"personalist\" depiction of the \"tathāgatagarbha\" encountered in any of the chief \"Tathāgatagarbha\" sutras and is imagistically reminiscent of Mahāyāna descriptions of the Buddha himself sitting in the lotus posture within his own mother's womb prior to birth: \"luminous, glorious, gracious, beautiful to see, seated with his legs crossed\" and shining \"like pure gold ...\"\n\nSome of the earliest and most important Tathāgatagarbha sūtras have been associated by scholars with certain early Buddhist schools in India.\n\nBrian Edward Brown dates the composition of the \"Śrīmālādevī Siṃhanāda Sūtra\" to the Andhra Ikshvaku in the 3rd century CE, as a product of the Mahāsāṃghikas of the Āndhra region. Wayman has outlined eleven points of complete agreement between the Mahāsāṃghikas and the \"Śrīmālā\", along with four major arguments for this association.\n\nSree Padma and Anthony Barber also associate the earlier development of the \"Tathāgatagarbha Sūtra\" with the Mahāsāṃghikas, and conclude that the Mahāsāṃghikas of the Āndhra region were responsible for the inception of the Tathāgatagarbha doctrine. \nAccording to\"Śrīmālādevī Siṃhanāda Sūtra\", the tathāgatagarbha is \"not born, does not die, does not transfer, does not arise. It is beyond the sphere of the characteristics of the compounded; it is permanent, stable and changeless.\" Moreover, it has been described as \"the sphere of experience of the Tathāgatas [Buddhas].\"\n\nThe development of the Buddha-nature doctrine is closely related to that of Buddha-matrix (Sanskrit: \"tathāgatagarbha\"). In the \"Anunatva-Apurnatva-Nirdeśa\", the Buddha links the \"tathāgatagarbha\" to the \"Dharmadhātu\" (ultimate, all-equal, uncreated essence of all phenomena) and to essential being, stating: \"What I call \"be-ing\" (\"sattva\") is just a different name for this permanent, stable, pure and unchanging refuge that is free from arising and cessation, the inconceivable pure Dharmadhatu.\"\n\nEvery being has Buddha-nature (\"Buddha-dhatu\"). It is indicated in the \"Aṅgulimālīya Sūtra\" that if the Buddhas themselves were to try to find any sentient being who lacked the Buddha-nature, they would fail. In fact, it is stated in this sutra that the Buddhas do discern the presence of the everlasting Buddha-nature in every being:\nBelief and faith in the true reality of the \"tathāgatagarbha\" is presented by the relevant scriptures as a positive mental act and is strongly urged; indeed, rejection of the \"tathāgatagarbha\" is linked with highly adverse karmic consequences. In the \"Angulimaliya Sutra\" it is stated that teaching only non-self and dismissing the reality of the \"tathāgatagarbha\" karmically lead one into most unpleasant rebirths, whereas spreading the doctrine of the \"tathāgatagarbha\" will bring benefit both to oneself and to the world.\n\nOf disputed authorship, the Ratnagotravibhāga (otherwise known as the \"Uttaratantra\"), is the only Indian attempt to create a coherent philosophical model based on the ideas found in the Tathāgatagarbha Sutras. The Ratnagotravibhāga especially draws on the \"Śrīmālādevī Siṃhanāda Sūtra\". Despite East Asian Buddhism's propensity for the concepts found in the Tathāgatagarbha Sutras, the Ratnagotravibhāga has played a relatively small role in East Asian Buddhism. This is due to the primacy of sutra study in East Asian Buddhism.\n\nThe \"Ratnagotravibhāga\" sees the Buddha-nature (\"tathāgatagarbha\") as \"suchness\" or \"thusness\" - the abiding reality of all things - in a state of tarnished concealment within the being. The idea is that the ultimate consciousness of each being is spotless and pure, but surrounded by negative tendencies which are impure. Paul Williams comments on how the impurity is actually not truly part of the Buddha-nature, but merely conceals the immanent true qualities of Buddha mind (i.e. the buddha-nature) from manifesting openly:\n\nThe \"Nirvana Sutra\" is an eschatological text. Its core was written in India in a time which was perceived as the age in which the Buddha-dharma would perish, and all the Mahayana sutras disappear. The sutra responds to this awaited end with the proclamation of the tathagatagarbha, the innate Buddhahood present in all man.\n\nAccording to Sallie B. King, the \"Mahaparinirvana Sutra\" does not represent a major innovation, and is rather unsystematic, which made it \"a fruitful one for later students and commentators, who were obliged to create their own order and bring it to the text\". According to King, its most important innovation is the linking of the term \"buddhadhātu\" with \"tathāgatagarbha\". \n\n\"Buddhadhātu\", \"Buddha-nature\", \"the nature of the Buddha\", that what constitutes a Buddha, is a central topic of the \"Nirvana sutra\". According to Sally King, the sutra speaks about Buddha-nature in so many different ways, that Chinese scholars created a list of types of Buddha-nature that could be found in the text. The \"nature of the Buddha\" is presented as a timeless, eternal \"Self\", which is akin to the \"tathāgatagarbha\", the innate possibility in every sentient being to attain Buddhahood and manifest this timeless Buddha-nature. This \"hidden treasury\" is present in all sentient beings:\nThis does not mean that sentient beings are at present endowed with the qualities of a Buddha, but that they will have those qualities in the future. It is obscured from worldly vision by the screening effect of kleshas, tenacious negative mental afflictions. The most notable of which are greed, hatred, delusion, and pride. Once these negative mental states have been eliminated, however, the buddhadhātu is said to shine forth unimpededly and the buddhadhātu can then be consciously \"entered into\", and therewith deathless Nirvana attained:\nThe later \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" presents the \"tathāgatagarbha\" as being a teaching completely consistent with and identical to emptiness. It synthesizes \"tathāgatagarbha\" with the emptiness (\"śūnyatā\") of the \"prajñāpāramitā\" sutras. Emptiness is the thought-transcending realm of non-duality and unconditionedness: complete freedom from all constriction and limitation.\n\nThe \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" describes the \"tathāgatagarbha\" as \"by nature brightly shining and pure,\" and \"originally pure,\" though \"enveloped in the garments of the \"skandhas\", \"dhātus\" and \"ayatanas\" and soiled with the dirt of attachment, hatred, delusion and false imagining.\" It is said to be \"naturally pure,\" but it appears impure as it is stained by adventitious defilements. Thus the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" identifies the luminous mind of the canon with the \"tathāgatagarbha\".\n\nIt also equates the \"tathāgatagarbha\" (and \"ālaya-vijñāna\") with nirvana, though this is concerned with the actual attainment of nirvana as opposed to nirvana as a timeless phenomenon. \n\nIn the later \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" it is said that the \"tathāgatagarbha\" might be mistaken for a self, which it is not. In fact, the sutra states that it is identical to the teaching of no-self.\n\nIn Section XXVIII of the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\", Mahāmati asks Buddha, \"Is not this Tathagata-garbha taught by the Blessed One the same as the ego-substance taught by the philosophers?\" The Buddha's response:\nYet in the concluding \"Sagathakam\" portion of the text, coming after the above-quoted passage, the sutra does not deny the reality of the Self; in fact it castigates such denial of the 'pure Self'. According to Thomas Cleary, \"The original scripture rigorously rejects nihilism and does not ultimately deny either self or world\", and quotes the sutra: \n\"Confused thinkers without guidance are in a cave of consciousness running hither and thither seeking to explain the self. The pure self has to be realized first hand; that is the matrix of realization [Tathagatagarbha], inaccessible to speculative thinkers.\" \n\nThe \"tathāgatagarbha\" doctrine became linked (in syncretic form) with doctrines of Citta-mātra (\"just-the-mind\") or Yogācāra. Yogācārins aimed to account for the possibility of the attainment of Buddhahood by ignorant sentient beings: the \"tathāgatagarbha\" is the indwelling awakening of bodhi in the very heart of samsara. There is also a tendency in the \"tathāgatagarbha\" sutras to support vegetarianism, as all persons and creatures are compassionately viewed as possessing one and the same essential nature - the \"Buddha-dhatu\" or Buddha-nature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "199831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199831", "title": "Theosophical Society Adyar", "text": "Theosophical Society Adyar\n\nThe Theosophy Society – Adyar is the name of a section of the Theosophical Society founded by Helena Petrovna Blavatsky and others in 1882. Its headquarters moved with Blavatsky and president Henry Steel Olcott from New York to Adyar, an area of Chennai, in 1886. The designation 'Adyar' is added to make it clear that this is the Theosophical Society headquartered there, after the American section and some other lodges separated from it in 1895, under William Quan Judge.\n\nThe US National Section of this organization is called the Theosophical Society in America located in Wheaton, Illinois.\n\nKnown as the \"Huddleston Gardens\", the Theosophical Society garden lies on the south bank of the Adyar River and covers 260 acres. The garden has migratory birds, fruit bats, snakes, jackals, wild cats, mongooses, hares, and a variety of spiders. Trees include the rare mahogany and other trees from across the globe. The garden also has a 450-year-old banyan tree, which is known locally as \"Adyar aala maram,\" whose aerial roots cover some 60,000 sq m. The main trunk fell under its own weight in 1996.\n\nH. P. Blavatsky, Henry Steel Olcott, William Quan Judge and others founded the Theosophical Society on 17 November 1875 in New York City. The American section split off with William Quan Judge as its leader. Henry Steel Olcott remained president until his death in 1907.\n\n\nThe Theosophical Society is open to anybody who supports its three objects, regardless of belief, social custom or marriage status. Celibacy is neither encouraged nor discouraged, each member being free to decide his/her own way of life.\n\nThe practice of brotherhood regardless of race, creed, sex, color, or any other difference is recommended. Nothing is mandatory. Members are free to have any or no spiritual practice at all.\n\nThe organization has a highly autonomous setup in that lodges and sections are fully autonomous. The President gets involved in National Section matters only when there is some dispute between them. Otherwise the President does not interfere in the matters of the sections or lodges. The President is nominated by the members of the General Council and then elected by members all over the world. The President holds office for seven-year period. The Vice-President acts on behalf of the President as necessary and assists him or her in various ways. The Secretary handles worldwide correspondence, maintains records including statistics of the worldwide membership of the Society, its Lodges and Sections, and is responsible for producing an annual report. He/she is also the Secretary of the General Council and the Executive Committee of the Society. This Committee, which meets a number of times each year, implements the decisions of the General Council and makes financial and administrative decisions relating to the Society's Headquarters. The Treasurer is responsible for the finances of the Society and prepares an annual financial report.\n\nLocally, members are organised in lodges. When a country has at least seven lodges, these can be gathered in a national section. Lodges and sections have a democratic organisation in which chairperson, secretary, treasurer and optional other officers are elected. Similarly, officers of the national sections are directly elected by the members of that section in a business meeting.\n\n\nThe Theosophical Society is organised in lodges and national sections. These organise meetings for religious study and lectures. Members individually practice any kind of meditation or other spiritual practice they choose.\n\n\nOlcott Memorial High School provides free education, uniforms, books, and two daily meals to impoverished rural children in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.\n\n\nWhen a Tsunami hit South India on 26 December 2004, it affected many of the people living near the Adyar-compound. The Theosophical Society, through the Theosophical Order of Service, helped the people survive both in the immediate aftermath and later. Similar activities were undertaken after the hurricane that destroyed much of New Orleans in 2005.\n\nThe influence of the Theosophical Society has been major, especially considering its small size. The new age movement reflected many of its main characteristics, especially holism and eclecticism. In Modern Art, the artists Kandinsky and Mondriaan were both influenced by theosophy.\n\nThe leadership of the Theosophical Society at Adyar was responsible for promoting young Jiddu Krishnamurti as the new \"World Teacher\" during the first few decades of the 20th century. Charles Webster Leadbeater, one of the Society's leaders at the time, had \"discovered\" fourteen-year-old Krishnamurti in 1909, and considered him the likely \"vehicle\" for the expected reappearance of the Maitreya. However, as a young man in 1929, Krishnamurti disavowed his expected \"mission\" and disassociated himself from the Theosophical Society and its doctrines and practices. Over the next six decades he pursued an independent course, becoming widely known as an original, influential thinker and speaker on philosophical and religious subjects.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41009178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41009178", "title": "Thomas De Koninck", "text": "Thomas De Koninck\n\nThomas De Koninck (born 1934 in Leuven, Belgium) is a philosopher from Québec.\n\nAfter studying at Oxford (M.A.), Université Laval (Ph.D), and Freie Universität Berlin, he became Professor at University of Notre Dame (1960–1964) in the United States and at Université Laval (1964– ) in Québec. According to a well known rumor, he would have inspired Antoine de Saint-Exupéry for the creation of The Little Prince when Saint-Exupéry was living in the house of Charles De Koninck in Québec city, in 1942.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57591892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57591892", "title": "Tie signs", "text": "Tie signs\n\nTie signs are signs, signals, and symbols, that are revealed through people's actions as well as objects such as engagement rings, wedding bands, and photographs of a personal nature that suggest a relationship exists between two people. For romantic couples, public displays of affection (PDA) including things like holding hands, an arm around a partner’s shoulders or waist, extended periods of physical contact, greater-than-normal levels of physical proximity, grooming one’s partner, and “sweet talk” are all examples of common tie signs. Tie signs inform the participants, as well as outsiders, about the nature of a relationship, its condition, and even what stage a relationship is in.\n\nOrigination of the term \"tie sign\" has been attributed to Desmond Morris, an English zoologist and author, by at least one source. However, Erving Goffman is also credited with employing the term in 1959, almost two decades earlier.\n\nNearly anything can be a tie sign, whether it is an action or an object, depending on the context in which it is observed. The majority of the time, the term tie sign is directed toward relational couples, but it can also apply to groups like families and friends. Additionally, \"name-dropping\" is an example a type of non-romantic tie sign wherein someone attempts to communicate to others that a relationship exists between the speaker and the person he or she has named.\n\nMorris relates that one of the difficulties associated with understanding tie signs is that almost anything can qualify as one, depending on the circumstances. For example, even though holding hands is a common tie sign, there is an obvious difference between a man and a woman holding hands as they stand on the alter at a wedding when compared to a female physician holding a male patient's hand in a doctor's office. Goffman echoes this sentiment when he says, \"a tie-sign is in fact dependent on the context for its meaning.\"\nThe advent of social media has created a newer conduit for tie signs. In addition to broadcasting images of a couple exhibiting traditional tie signs like kissing, holding hands, hugging, pictures of weddings, and engagement rings, etc., social media provides the opportunity for other signals such as \"liking\" someone's page or tagging another person in a picture. Additionally, although observers may not witness the act of \"liking\" as it occurs, evidence of such actions persist on the recipient's page for others to see over time.\n\nThere is some evidence that ceasing to use social media for relational maintenance purposes could contribute to \"alienation and relational de-escalation\", while it would not have been a problem in the past simply because the opportunity to communicate via social media was not an option.\n\nWalid A. Afifi and Michelle L. Johnson researched cross-sex friendships (those between a man and a woman) and how the use of tie signs in less-than-romantic relationships differ from the same tie signs when they are used in romantic cross-sex relationships. For example, hugging as a greeting is an accepted tie sign for both cross-sex friendship as well as cross-sex romantic relationships. Afifi and Johnson note some differences between sexes in the meanings behind tie signs in certain circumstances. For example, women, more often than men, stated their use of tie signs was intended to \"express inclusion and intimacy.\" Afifi and Johnson also suggest that less-than-overt tie signs are often ambiguous even with knowledge of the context and the present state of the relationship. It is for this reason that Goffman argues that a tie sign is informative in nature and not a type of communication or language that can stand on its own.\n\nLike Morris, Goffman's work on tie signs, copyrighted in 1971, was more descriptive than it was research-based because he was defining a new concept. In so doing, Goffman focuses on relationships between two people (dyadic), and refers to the participants as both \"pegs\" and \"ends\" that are joined in \"anchored relations,\" as well as the way intentional and unintentional actions that are exhibited by the pair reflect the current state of their relationship. Goffman argues that tie signs are \"ritual idioms\" that contain information as opposed to a particular message, in large part because tie signs are often susceptible to incorrect interpretations. In turn, third party observers tend to look for additional tie signs in order to confirm or deny their suspicions regarding the subjects they are observing. Goffman breaks tie-signs into three distinct categories:\n\n\nLaura K. Guerrero and Peter A. Andersen researched how touch avoidance informs on the various stages of romantic relationships. Guerrero and Anderson's results quite clearly suggest a marked decrease in touching between couples once their relationship reaches a \"stable\" stage. The authors' research does not determine whether the decrease in touch after reaching a \"stable\" condition it is no longer needed as much as when the relationship is still forming, or if need, or desire, for public touching is replaced by an increase in physical contact while in private, or by less overt communications and gestures such as knowing looks between pairs.\n\nGuerrero and Anderson's work supports Morris' contention that tie-signs decrease in frequency and intimacy as relationships mature. Goffman refers to this trend as “taking liberty.”\n\nPerhaps somewhat counter intuitively on its face, a lack of touching between an “anchored pair” is also a tie sign that can signal a pair’s relationship is in a mature and stable stage. \nLike Goffman, Desmond Morris's work with tie signs, was more descriptive in nature as he was describing a new concept, in contrast with others’research that followed. Morris defines a tie sign as \"any action which indicates the existence of a personal relationship\". Additionally, he broadens and clarifies his definition by including objects such as engagement rings, family pictures, and tattoos, as well as \"indirect tie signs\" such as a couple sharing a desert after dinner, and \"direct ties signs\" such as maintaining close proximity to one another, finishing each other’s sentences, and prolonged and frequent body contact.\n\nVictoria Schwanda Sosik and Natalya Bazarova researched relational maintenance through social networking including an increasing sense of “staying in touch” and frequency of contact. Even while noting a reduction in effort, or \"relational maintenance cost\" required to maintain a relationship via a social media conduit, the authors argue that activity on an acquaintance's social media page still serves to signal a shared relationship. Sosik and Bazarova also argue there is a hierarchy of signals available including more personal, written comments posted either publicly or privately, “liking” something on the other person’s social media page, tagging the other person when active on other pages, etc. Two differences between an in-person tie sign and a tie sign in a social media setting are first - the potentially greater size of the audience, and second - the lingering of tie signs that were generated in the past creating, in turn, a prolonged signal to any who see it that a relationship exists.\n\nIn Wright and Webb's book \"Computer-Mediated Communication in Personal Relationships\", Stephanie Tom Tong and Joseph Walther explore whether social media activity is additive to relational maintenance between people that are not dispersed geographically and otherwise have social contact with one another. Even thought people may have a relationship outside of social media, they still often choose to demonstrate to others that a relationship exists with tie signs that are delivered via social media platforms.\n\nIn \"Relations in Public\", Goffman concedes that his review of tie-signs is focused on Western society of the time. And, specifically to \"middle-class American[s].\"\n\nThere may be some benefit for future research on the effects of broadcasting tie signs through social media, and what impact they may have on relationships. Such as, whether the larger number of witnesses and lingering representation of a tie sign that is preserved in social media might be perceived as magnifying the significance of what is otherwise a seemingly small gesture.\n\n"}
{"id": "39138449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39138449", "title": "Tomonaga Sanjūrō", "text": "Tomonaga Sanjūrō\n\nTomonaga was born in Nagasaki Prefecture the second son of Tomonaga Jinjirō, a samurai of the Ōmura Domain,in 1871. After graduating from Nagasaki Ōmura Junior High School (which is now known as Nagasaki Prefectural Omura High School) and then First Higher School, he entered the Tokyo Imperial University. After finishing his degree from the same university, he became the assistant professor of philosophy at the Imperial University of Kyoto in 1907 and then full professor in 1913. He mainly lectured on Western Philosophy and the History of Philosophy; and, along with Nishida Kitarō and Tanabe Hajime, constituted the important intellectual movement of modern Japan, i.e., the Kyoto School. Tomonaga was known for being an unprolific writer but left remarkable works (e.g., \"The History of Self-consciousness in relation to the Self of Modernity,\" \"Philosophy from Renaissance to Kant,\" \"Kant's Theory of Peace,\" and others) and taught many students who later became renowned Japanese philosophers (e.g., Amano Teiyū, Obara Kuniyoshi, Yamauchi Tokuryū, Kosaka Masaaki). He retired from Kyoto Imperial University in 1931 and then became full professor at Ōtani University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12565943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12565943", "title": "Tomáš Štítný ze Štítného", "text": "Tomáš Štítný ze Štítného\n\nTomáš Štítný ze Štítného (c. 1333 – 1401/1409) was a Czech nobleman, writer, theologian, translator, and Christian preacher. He was one of the leading figures of the early Czech Reformation, writing and translating Christian tracts for the benefit of the nobility, to assist in wise governance. The Klementinum Codex, a major work, is a collection of some of the essentials necessary for Christian practice and the needs of daily life. He also wrote parables for ordinary people and works purely for entertainment. There is a bronze bust of Tomas Stitny in the pantheon of the National Museum of Prague.\n\n"}
{"id": "454085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=454085", "title": "Truthmaker theory", "text": "Truthmaker theory\n\nTruthmaker theory is \"the branch of metaphysics that explores the relationships between what is true and what exists.\"\n\nA truthmaker for a truthbearer is that entity in virtue of which the truthbearer is true. Philosophers have speculated on the question whether every truthbearer requires a truthmaker. Parmenides' classic claim that what does not exist cannot be thought about has been read as a claim that every truthbearer must have a truthmaker, since otherwise the truthbearer is not \"about\" anything. A falsemaker for a proposition is that existent reality in virtue of which that proposition is false, assuming it is false.\n\nIn \"Truth-Makers\" (1984), Mulligan, Simons and Smith introduced the truth-maker idea as a contribution to the correspondence theory of truth. Logically atomic empirical sentences such as \"John kissed Mary\" have truthmakers, typically events or tropes corresponding to the main verbs of the sentences in question. Mulligan et al. explore extensions of this idea to sentences of other sorts, but they do not embrace any position of truthmaker maximalism, according to which every truthbearer has a truthmaker.\n\nThis maximalist position leads to philosophical difficulties, such as the question of what the truthmaker for an ethical, modal or mathematical truthbearer could be. Of course someone who is deeply enough committed to truthmakers and who simultaneously doubts that a truthmaker could be found for a certain kind of truthbearer will simply deny that that truthbearer could be true. Those who find the Parmenidean insight sufficiently compelling often take it to be a particularly enlightening metaphysical pursuit to search for truthmakers of these kinds of propositions.\n\nAnother difficulty for the claim that every truthbearer has a truthmaker is with negations of existential propositions (or, equivalently, universal propositions). What \"entity\" makes it true that unicorns do not exist? Proposals include the \"totality\" of all things, or some worldly state of affairs such as x1's not being a unicorn, x2's not being a unicorn, ..., and everything's being x1, or x2, or ... (the latter suggestion is due to Richard M. Gale). \n\nDavid Lewis has proposed a more moderate version of the truthmaker theory on which truthmakers are only required for positive propositions (e.g., there must be a truthmaker for the proposition that there are horses, but not for the equally true proposition that there are no unicorns). What makes a negative proposition \"p\" true is the \"lack\" of a falsemaker for it, i.e., the lack of a truthmaker for the negation of \"p\". Thus what makes it true that there are no unicorns is the lack of a truthmaker for the proposition that there \"are\" unicorns, i.e., the lack of unicorns. This may be what Protagoras was getting at when he said that to speak truly is to say of what is that it is and of what is not that it is not.\n\nTruthmaker theorists differ as to what entities are the truthmakers of various truthbearers. Some say that the truthmaker of the proposition that Socrates is sitting (assuming he is!) is \"Socrates' being seated\" (whatever exactly that might turn out to be on the correct ontology) and in general the truthmaker of the truthbearer expressed by a sentence \"s\" can be denoted by the participial nominalization of \"s\". Others will say that the truthmaker of the proposition that Socrates is sitting is just \"Socrates\" himself. In any case, the truthmaker is supposed to be something \"concrete\", and on the first view is that whose existence is reported by the truthbearer and on the second view is that which the truthbearer is \"about\".\n\nWhile the existence of truthmakers may seem an abstruse question, concrete instances are at the heart of a number of philosophical issues. Thus, J. L. Mackie has argued that the truthmakers of moral claims would be \"queer entities\", too strange to exist, and hence all moral claims are false. Alternatively, a divine command metaethicist may insist that the only possible candidate for a truthmaker of a moral claim is a command from a perfect God, and hence if moral claims are true and a truthmaker theory holds, then God exists. Thus the disagreement between various metaethical schools is in part a disagreement over what kinds of truthmakers moral claims would have if these claims were true and over whether such truthmakers exist.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54514431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54514431", "title": "Valéria Dienes", "text": "Valéria Dienes\n\nValéria Dienes (25 May 1879 – 8 June 1978) was a Hungarian philosopher, dancer, dance instructor, choreographer and one of first Hungarian woman to graduate from university. She is widely considered to be one of the most important Hungarian theorists on movement. She was the recipient of Hungary's highest literary award, the Baumgarten Prize in 1934.\n\nValéria Geiger was born on 25 May 1879 in Szekszárd, in the Austro-Hungarian Empire to Erzsébet (née Berczelits) and Gyula Geiger. Her father was a journalist and the Geiger family lived two houses away from her childhood friend Mihály Babits, who would later base some of the characters in his novel \"Halálfiai\" on the Geigers. She began her education at the Mária Mayer-Arlow School in Szekszárd and after completing 5 courses, began study at the State Civilian Girls' School in 1891. Graduating in 1893, Geiger began studying at the State Normal School in Győr, earning her teacher's degree in 1897. That same year, she moved to Budapest and enrolled in the three-year Civil-School Teacher Training Course held at #65 Andrássy Avenue, matriculating in 1901.\n\nIn 1901, Geiger entered Pázmány Péter Catholic University as a scholarship student of Wlassits College of the National Women's Training Institute and simultaneously began studying piano at the Budapest Academy of Music. Studying aesthetics, mathematics and philosophy, Geiger graduated with a dual-doctorate from the Philosophy Department in aesthetics and mathematics in June 1905. She became the first woman to obtain a PhD from the Philosophy Department with a thesis entitled \"Valóság-Elméletek\" (Reality-Theories). A few months later, she married a fellow mathematics student, and the young couple spent the years 1906 and 1907 touring, traveling from Palermo to Tunis. Between 1908 and 1912, the couple lived in Paris, where Dienes attended classes given by Henri Bergson, attended performances by Isadora Duncan and courses on Greek classical eurythmy given by Raymond Duncan.\n\nReturning to Budapest in 1912, Dienes created and taught a course based on Duncan's Greek movement ideas. Simultaneously, she began work translating the works of Bergson, Alfred Binet and others. She published an original work in the \"Galilei Booklets\" synthesizing the ideas of Ivan Pavlov and the Würzburg School to present a reform on the way thought processes were viewed by psychologists. She was the first person in Hungary to put forth the idea of functional psychology and advocate it for childhood development as a means of reforming educational activities. In 1915 she founded a school, which she called \"Orkesztika\" or \"Orchestrics\", incorporating her own ideas of motion. Evaluating the interrelationships of dynamics, kinetics, mimetics, and rhythmics, she created her own system to teach eurythmics and provide students with an understanding of the strength, space, expression and time needed to create dance. Her two sons, and were born in 1914 and 1916, respectively.\n\nIn 1919, Dienes designed a reform program for women's sports for the Hungarian Soviet Republic, but the following year was exiled from the country because of the White Terror violence. During the period, she gave performances in Belgrade, Vienna, Nice, and Paris, and taught at a Montessori school in Grinzing. Her husband fell in love with one of his students and moved to England, leaving Dienes the sole responsibility for their children. She went to France and joined the Duncan Art Colony in Paris, reuniting with the siblings Isadora and Raymond. Returning to Budapest in 1923, Dienes resumed teaching. She also returned to her Catholic roots. Her philosophical writings from this point, turned away from radical social philosophy and began to incorporate her Catholic beliefs into her works. Combining Bergson's theories that action, rather than passive thought, was fundamental to mental development, Dienes began to incorporate the ideas of Teilhard de Chardin and the influential priest Ottokár Prohászka into her philosophical writings. Prohászka advocated a philosophy which was both nationalistic and Christian, decidedly anti-Semtic and his influence caused Dienes to evaluate the role of religion and mysticism on the development of Hungarian thought. Her philosophy was grounded by a belief that human expression, was constantly evolving and was motivated by four pilars: a need to preserve the past, the absence of identity, constant change and inevitability.\n\nDienes' choreographic works began by setting the verse of modern Hungarian poets, such as Endre Ady and Babits, to dance. By the 1920s, she had begun to publish her own works widely and perform large-scale movement dramas. Her first performance of her own work was \"Hajnalvárás\" (Waiting for Dawn, 1925), followed by \"Nyolc boldogság\" (The Eight Beatitudes, 1926). These drama performances used her own lyrics and were often set to the music of Lajos Bárdos and performed in an outdoor arena like the Budapest City Park. The scope was often massive, as in her performance of \"A gyermek útja\" (The Child's Path, 1935), which used nearly 1,000 performers. Some of Dienes' most important religious works included \"Hajnalvárás\" (Waiting for Dawn, 1925), \"Magyar Végzet\" (Hungarian Doom), Szent Imre Misztérium, (Saint Emery’s Mystery, 1930–1931), \"\"A rózsák szentje\" (The Saint of Roses, 1932), \"Magvető\" (Sower, 1933), \"Tíz szűz\" (Ten Virgins, 1934), and \"Az anya\" (The Mother, 1937). In addition to religious works, Dienes created choreographies for fairy tales such as \"Fehér királylány\" (The White Princess, 1929), \"Csipkerózsa\" (\"Sleeping Beauty\", 1931), \"Hamupipőke\" (\"Cinderella\", 1934), and \"Hófehérke\" (\"Snow White\", 1940). \"Fehér királylány\" was made into a motion picture in 1930. \"Patrona Hungariae\" (Patron of Hungary, 1938) was a historic drama retelling the Christianization of Hungary by King Stephen I and in 1940, she choreographed \"Az élet kenyere\" (The Bread of Life) to music by Bárdos.\n\nBy 1928 Dienes had founded, serving as co-president, the Movement Culture Association and the following year began offering a four-year teacher's courses to train professionals in the study of motion. In 1934, she was awarded the Baumgarten Prize, which at the time was the highest literary recognition in the country, for her contributions to Hungarian philosophy. She continued performing through the 1940s and her school remained open until 1944. After the rise of communism, Dienes was forgotten for many years, though she continued to work and develop her philosophical ideas. She worked on translations of John Locke's \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" and Teilhard de Chardin's \"The Phenomenon of Man\" in the 1960s for the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. In 1975, a television program by highlighted her multi-faceted personality.\n\nDienes died on 8 June 1978 in Budapest. In 1991, a school in her hometown was renamed to bear her name. That same year, the Orchestrics Foundation was created in Hungary to re-introduce the Duncan-Dienes method of eurythmics. In 1996, her collected works on her theories of movement, \"Orkesztika—Mozdulatrendszer\" (Orchestics—System of Movement) was first published. The book analyzes how movement is limited by both the anatomy and environment, which is further impacted by the amount of energy and time movement will take and the meaning one wants to convey. The Hungarian Art of Movement Company has held honorary performances to recognize the pioneering work of Dienes on her 120th and 125th birthday.\n\n"}
{"id": "50946713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50946713", "title": "Wil Waluchow", "text": "Wil Waluchow\n\nWil Waluchow is a Canadian philosopher, currently the Senator William McMaster Chair in Constitutional Studies at McMaster University, where he has taught since 1984. General jurisprudence and the philosophy of constitutional law are his main research interests.\n\nAfter studying for his undergraduate and master's degrees at the University of Western Ontario, he went on to Oxford University to study philosophy of law under the supervision of H.L.A. Hart. Two notable contributions to the discipline are \"Inclusive Legal Positivism\" (1994) and \"A Common Law Theory of Judicial Review: The Living Tree\" (2007).\n"}
{"id": "1793215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1793215", "title": "William of Ware", "text": "William of Ware\n\nWilliam of Ware (called the \"Doctor Fundatus\"; flourished 1290–1305) was a Franciscan friar and theologian, born at Ware in Hertfordshire. He almost certainly studied at Oxford University and lectured on the \"Sentences\" of Peter Lombard there, but he is not listed among the Oxford masters. There is some evidence, but no certainty, that he also taught at the University of Paris, perhaps lecturing there too on the \"Sentences\". He was known as the \"Doctor Fundatus\" (established doctor) and less commonly the \"Doctor Praeclarus\" (very clear doctor).\n\nOnly one work can reliably be attributed to him, a commentary on the \"Sentences\" which survives in many manuscripts: only small parts have been edited, by the Franciscans of Quaracchi (1904), and by A. Daniels (1909, 1913), P. Muscat (1927), J.-M. Bissen (1927), and L. Hödl (1990). William does not try to discuss every distinction, but concentrates on the topics he finds most important, devoting over 100 questions to book 1 and just 129 to the remaining three books. Among the theologians whose views William discusses are Henry of Ghent, Godfrey of Fontaines, Giles of Rome, and Richard of Middleton.\n\nTraditionally William has been assumed to be the master of Duns Scotus. In a work on the immaculate conception (c. 1373) Thomas Rossy refers to William as the \"Magister Scoti\", as does Bartolomeo da Pisa in his \"De conformitate vitae beati Francisci ad vitam domini Jesu\" of the late 1380s.\n"}
{"id": "28067154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28067154", "title": "Xavier Tilliette", "text": "Xavier Tilliette\n\nXavier Tilliette (born July 23, 1921, Corbie, Somme) is a French philosopher, historian of philosophy, and theologian. A former student of Jean Wahl and of Vladimir Jankélévitch, he is a member of the Society of Jesus (1938) and professor emeritus at the Catholic Institute of Paris (1969), having taught also at the Pontifical Gregorian University of Rome (1972), the Lateran University, and the Centre Sèvres in Paris.\n\nXavier Tilliette also taught philosophy at various universities as a \"visiting professor\" in France and abroad: Lima, Santiago, Berlin, Bremen, Fribourg, Heidelberg, Hamburg, Munich, Bonn, Tübingen, Turin, Ferrara, Urbino, Rome, Macerata, Naples, Palermo. He speaks fluent English, Italian, German and Spanish, in addition to Latin, Greek and Hebrew, and he reads Portuguese and Danish.\n\nA specialist in Schelling and Jaspers, he has been developing since the 1970s a \"philosophical Christology\" which he initiated. In the tradition of Schelling and of Maurice Blondel, he defends and illustrates the idea of a Christian philosophy born from Revelation. He is also a specialist of Claudel, of phenomenology (Husserl and Maurice Merleau-Ponty), and of German idealism.\n\nXavier Tilliette was twice winner of a prize from the French Academy. Several of his works were translated into English, Italian, German, and Spanish.\n\nAmong his teachers, disciples, or friends, along with Wahl and Jankélévitch, are Hans Urs von Balthasar, Karl Rahner, Henri de Lubac, Gaston Fessard, Hans Georg Gadamer, Jürgen Habermas, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Jean-Paul Sartre, Louis Bouyer, Jean Daniélou, Emmanuel Levinas, Paul Ricœur, Gabriel Marcel, Ambroise-Marie Carré, Yves Congar, Michel de Certeau, Stanislas Fumet, Maurice de Gandillac, Paul Doncœur, Pierre Blet, Marcel Brion, Robert Bresson, Enrico Castelli, Luigi Pareyson, Giuseppe Riconda, Michel Henry, Claude Bruaire, Jean Greisch, François Varillon, Albert Vanoye, Jean-Luc Marion, Jean-Louis Vieillard-Baron, Francesco Tomatis.\n\nHe is a member of the Istituto Italiano per gli Studi Filosofici and of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities (\"Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften of Munich\"), the Centro studi filosofico-religiosi Luigi Pareyson, and, since 2006, a corresponding member Accademia di estetica internazionale de Rapallo.\n\nXavier Tilliette is knight of the Légion d'honneur and of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic.\n\nXavier Tilliette has written more than 2,000 essays, books, or articles; his more comprehensive bibliography contains over 250 pages.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33478850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33478850", "title": "Yangism", "text": "Yangism\n\nYangism () was a philosophical school founded by Yang Zhu, existent during the Warring States period (475 BCE – 221 BCE), that believed that human actions are and should be based on self-interest. The school has been described by sinologists as an early form of psychological and ethical egoism. The main focus of the Yangists was on the concept of \"xing\", or human nature, a term later incorporated by Mencius into Confucianism. No documents directly authored by the Yangists have been discovered yet, and all that is known of the school comes from the comments of rival philosophers, specifically in the Chinese texts \"Huainanzi\", \"Lüshi Chunqiu\", \"Mengzi\", and possibly the \"Liezi\" and \"Zhuangzi\". The philosopher Mencius claimed that Yangism once rivaled Confucianism and Mohism, although the veracity of this claim remains controversial among sinologists. Because Yangism had largely faded into obscurity by the time that Sima Qian compiled his Shiji, the school was not included as one of the Hundred Schools of Thought.\n\nYangism has been described as a form of psychological and ethical egoism. The Yangist philosophers believed in the importance of maintaining self-interest through \"keeping one's nature intact, protecting one's uniqueness, and not letting the body be tied by other things.\" Disagreeing with the Confucian virtues of \"li\" (propriety), \"ren\" (humaneness), and \"yi\" (righteousness) and the Legalist virtue of \"fa\" (law), the Yangists saw \"wei wo\", or \"everything for myself,\" as the only virtue necessary for self-cultivation. Individual pleasure is considered desirable, like in hedonism, but not at the expense of the health of individual. The Yangists saw individual well-being as the prime purpose of life, and considered anything that hindered that well-being immoral and unnecessary.\n\nThe main focus of the Yangists was on the concept of \"xing\", or human nature, a term later incorporated by Mencius into Confucianism. The \"xing\", according to sinologist A. C. Graham, is a person's \"proper course of development\" in life. Individuals can only rationally care for their own \"xing\", and should not naively have to support the \"xing\" of other people, even if it means opposing the emperor. In this sense, Yangism is a \"direct attack\" on Confucianism, by implying that the power of the emperor, defended in Confucianism, is baseless and destructive, and that state intervention is morally flawed.\n\nThe Confucian philosopher Mencius depicts Yangism as the direct opposite of Mohism, while Mohism promotes the idea of universal love and impartial caring, the Yangists acted only \"for themselves,\" rejecting the altruism of Mohism. He criticized the Yangists as selfish, ignoring the duty of serving the public and caring only for personal concerns. Mencius saw Confucianism as the \"Middle Way\" between Mohism and Yangism.\n\nMencius incorporated the Yangist concept of \"xing\" into his own philosophy. Some sinologists have argued that Yangism influenced Taoism, and can be seen as a \"precursor\" to later Taoist beliefs.\n\n\n"}
