{"id": "52943579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52943579", "title": "1971 Newry killings", "text": "1971 Newry killings\n\nOn 23 October 1971 undercover soldiers from the British Army shot dead three unarmed Catholic civilians in disputed circumstances in Newry.\n\nThe Irish Troubles broke out in August 1969 after the Battle of the Bogside and the Belfast August 1969 riots. Soon after the British Army was called in to restore order but events quickly shaped the conflict into a three-way urban guerrilla war with Loyalist Paramilitaries like the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) on one side, Irish Republican paramilitaries like the Provisional IRA (PIRA) on one side and the British state security services making up the other belligerent.\n\nThe killings in Newry on 23 October 1971 was one in a series of controversial incidents between 1970–1973 that involved the British Army shooting and killing Catholic Irish Nationalist civilians. During the Falls Curfew of July 1970 the British Army killed four Catholic civilians, the next year in August 1971 (when internment was being introduced) during the Ballymurphy Massacre they shot dead eleven civilians including a Catholic priest and a 50-year-old mother of eight. The most famous of these incidents was Bloody Sunday in January 1972 in which British paratroopers shot dead 14 civil rights protesters, later on that same year British army snipers shot dead five civilians and injured two more Catholic civilians in an event known as the Springhill massacre.\nThese and similar events hugely boosted recruitment into the Official IRA and Provisional IRA among the Nationalist/Catholic people of Northern Ireland and to help to intensify the conflict further.\n\nThe shooting happened when the undercover British soldiers who were lying in wait on a rooftop across the street believed they saw a robbery taking place at a bank and assumed the robbers were members of the IRA, Sean Ruddy (19), Robert Anderson (25) and Thomas McLoughlin (27) were all shot dead. The British army said they had received information that the Provisional IRA was going to launch an operation in the area. However none of those killed were members of any paramilitary group and local eyewitness claim the men were just having an argument with someone inside the bank and were not in the process of robbing it and that the army simply shot the three men in cold blood without the men posing any serious risk to the soldiers or anybody else near the area. The shootings were carried out by the British Armies Royal Green Jackets regiment.\nIn 2011 the Northern Ireland Historical Enquiries Team (HET) released its four-year investigation into the shooting. The HET report concluded that the killings were \"a tragedy that should not have happened\".\nThe report found there to be a \"question mark\" over the British Army's conduct when the three men were shot dead by soldiers who were lying in wait on the roof of the nearby Woolworth's building. Arthur Ruddy, brother of Sean Ruddy and a former nationalist councillor, said the four-year-long investigation by the Historical Enquiries Team had vindicated the family, who always maintained the 19-year-old's killing was unlawful.\n\nThere was intense rioting by the nationalist community in Newry for several days after the killing of the three men, with people directing their anger towards soldiers by throwing stones and in some cases petrol bombs at them. During the funerals of the men killed most shops in the town closed out of respect to the dead men, except for the bank were the men had been shot at and the local post office. Both of these had their windows broken by youths throwing stones through them. After this there were further clashes with locals and the army, with the army firing CS gas and rubber bullets at the mourners. \n\nOn the same day as the Newry Killings the Provisional IRA's first two female volunteers were killed by the British Army or RUC. Maura Meehan (30) and Dorothy Maguire (19), were shot dead by the British Army (BA) in the Lower Falls area of Belfast. The Army said shots came from the car first & the army returned fire. IRA Belfast Brigade commander said the two women had been travelling the area warning people of British Army raids on houses. \n\n"}
{"id": "785755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=785755", "title": "4th millennium", "text": "4th millennium\n\nThe fourth millennium of the Gregorian calendar will begin on January 1, 3001, and end on December 31, 4000.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "16946721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16946721", "title": "ARMA International", "text": "ARMA International\n\nARMA International (formerly the Association of Records Managers and Administrators) is a not-for-profit professional association for records and information managers and related industry practitioners and vendors. The association provides educational opportunities and educational publications covering the principles of records management. It also is known worldwide for its standards and guidelines.\n\nThe Association was founded in 1955. In 1975, the Association of Records Executives and Administrators (AREA) and the American Records Management Association merged to form the present ARMA International. The headquarters for ARMA International are in Overland Park, Kansas.\n\nARMA International has more than 27,000 members in over 30 countries. ARMA international has approximately 150 chapters for members around the world. Its members include records managers, attorneys, information technology professionals, consultants, and archivists involved in various aspects of managing records and information assets.\n\nARMA International sponsors a conference and expo in the latter half of each year. Topics addressed in the 80+ educational sessions include electronic records management, legal issues, regulatory compliance, electronic discovery, fundamental records and information management principles, records management in the legal environment, and various technology-related issues. The expo features exhibitors displaying records and information management technologies, products, and services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11728768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11728768", "title": "Adolf Büchler", "text": "Adolf Büchler\n\nAdolf Büchler (also Adolph) (October 18, 1867, at Priekopa, Hungary (now Slovakia) – 1939) was an Austro-Hungarian rabbi, historian and theologian.\n\nIn 1887 he began his theological studies at the Rabbinical Seminary of Budapest, and at the same time studied in the Department of Philosophy of the university under Ignác Goldziher and Moritz Kármán. Büchler continued his studies at the Breslau Seminary and in 1890 graduated \"with a PhD\" from Leipzig University, his dissertation being \"Zur Entstehung der Hebräischen Accente\", which was later published in the \"Sitzungsberichte der Wiener Akademie der Wissenschaften\" of 1891.\n\nBüchler returned to Budapest to finish his theological studies and graduated as a rabbi in 1892. He then went to Oxford for one year, where he worked under the direction of his uncle, Adolf Neubauer and published an essay, \"The Reading of the Law and Prophets in a Triennial Cycle\". The same year he accepted a position as instructor at the Vienna Jewish Theological Seminary, teaching Jewish history, the Bible and the Talmud. Büchler became Principal of Jews' College in London in 1906.\n\n\nHe has also contributed some essays to the \"Jewish Quarterly Review\", the \"Monatsschrift\", the \"Revue des Études Juives\", and other periodicals, mainly on the last days of the Second Temple.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "423021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=423021", "title": "Ahnenerbe", "text": "Ahnenerbe\n\nThe Ahnenerbe (, \"ancestral heritage\") was a think tank that operated in Nazi Germany between 1935 and 1945. It was an appendage of the Schutzstaffel (SS) and had been established by Heinrich Himmler, the Reichsführer of the SS. It was devoted to the task of promoting the racial doctrines espoused by Adolf Hitler and his governing Nazi Party, specifically by supporting the idea that the modern Germans descended from an ancient Aryan race which was biologically superior to other racial groups. The group comprised scholars and scientists from a broad range of academic disciplines.\n\nHitler came to power in 1933 and over the following years he converted Germany into a one-party state under the control of his Nazi Party and governed by his personal dictatorship. He espoused the idea that modern Germans descended from the ancient Aryans, who he claimed—in contrast to established academic understandings of prehistory—had been responsible for most major developments in human history such as agriculture, art, and writing. His racial theories and claims about prehistory were not accepted by the majority of the world's scholarly community, and a decision was taken to give them greater scholarly backing. The Ahnenerbe was established with the purpose of providing evidence for Nazi racial doctrine and to promote these ideas to the German public through books, articles, exhibits, and conferences. Ahnenerbe scholars interpreted evidence to fit Hitler's beliefs, and some consciously fabricated evidence to do so; many of their ideas are regarded as pseudoscience. The organisation sent out various expeditions to other parts of the world, intent on finding evidence of ancient Aryan expansion.\n\nThe Nazi government used the Ahnenerbe's research to justify many of their policies. For instance, the think tank's claim that archaeological evidence indicated that the ancient Aryans lived across eastern Europe was cited in justification of German military expansion into that region. Ahnenerbe research was also cited in justification of the Holocaust, the mass killing of Jews and other groups—including Roma and homosexuals—through extermination camps and other methods. In 1937 the project was renamed the Research and Teaching Community of the Ancestral Heritage (\"Forschungs- und Lehrgemeinschaft des Ahnenerbe\"). Some of the group's investigations were placed on hold at the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939. Towards the end of the war, Ahnenerbe members destroyed much of the organisation's paperwork to avoid it incriminating them in forthcoming war crimes tribunals. \n\nMany Ahnenerbe members escaped the de-Nazification policies in West Germany and remained active in the country's archaeological establishment throughout the post-war decades. This stifled scholarly research into the Ahnenerbe, which only intensified after German reunification in 1990. The Ahnenerbe's ideas have remained popular in some neo-Nazi and far-right circles and have also influenced later pseudo-archaeologists.\n\nHitler believed that humanity could be divided into three groups: \"the founders of culture, the bearers of culture, the destroyers of culture\". The founders of culture, in Hitler's view, were a biologically distinct Aryan race who he believed had been tall, blonde, and originating in Northern Europe. He believed that in prehistory, the Aryan race had been responsible for all significant developments in human culture, including agriculture, architecture, music, literature, and the visual arts. He believed that most modern Germans were the descendants of these Aryans and had genetically inherited the Aryans' biological superiority to other races. The destroyers of culture, in Hitler's view, were the Jews, whom he regarded not as a genetically diverse population sharing certain ethno-cultural and religious traits—as they were then widely recognised—but as a unified, biologically distinct race. He believed that wherever Jews went, they damaged and ultimately destroyed the cultures surrounding them.\n\nHitler had promoted his ideas about the greatness of Germany's ancestors in his 1925 book, \"Mein Kampf\". Outside Germany, most scholars and scientists regarded Hitler's ideas about human evolution and prehistory as nonsense, in part due to the absence of any evidence that North European communities had ever been responsible for major developments in prehistory, such as the development of agriculture and writing, all of which first appeared in the Near East and Asia.\n\nIn January 1929, Hitler appointed another senior Nazi Party member, Heinrich Himmler, to head the Schutzstaffel (SS), a paramilitary group designed to serve as personal bodyguards to Hitler and other Nazis. Himmler set out to re-organise the SS, introducing a better system of organisation, and gathering intelligence on prominent Jews and Freemasons, as well as on rival political groups. In 1929, Himmler launched an SS recruitment campaign, and by the end of 1931 it had 10,000 members. He was intent on ensuring that this membership was as racially Nordic as possible, establishing the SS Race and Settlement Main Office (RuSHA) to screen both applicants and the women whom SS members proposed to marry. In believing in the existence of a \"Nordic\" racial type which was the purest survival of the ancient Aryans, Himmler was influenced by the Nordicist ideas of Hans F. K. Günther, which had been popular in German nationalist circles over the preceding decades.\n\nHimmler had an abiding interest in the past, and in how it could provide a blueprint for the future. However, his views of the ancient Germanic peoples differed from Hitler's in certain areas. Hitler was perplexed as to why ancient societies in southern Europe had developed more advanced technology and architecture than their contemporaries in northern Europe. He stated that \"People make a tremendous fuss about the excavations carried out in districts inhabited by our forebears of the pre-Christian era. I am afraid that I cannot share their enthusiasm, for I cannot help remembering that, while our ancestors were making these vessels out of stone and clay, over which our archaeologists rave, the Greeks had already built the Acropolis.\" He explained this by claiming that the Aryans must also have inhabited the south of the continent and that they were responsible for establishing the societies of ancient Greece and Rome. Specifically, he believed that it was the warmer climates of the south that enabled these Aryans to develop in ways that those living further north, in colder and wetter climates, did not. Himmler was aware of these views but, unlike Hitler, admired what he believed was the fierceness and valour of the Germanic tribes of northern Europe. He was particularly interested in \"Germania\", a book about the Iron Age Germanic tribes which had been written by the Roman writer Tacitus in the first century CE. \n\nIn the 1932 federal election, the Nazis secured 230 seats in the Reichstag, making then the largest single party but without a controlling majority. Six months later, President Paul von Hindenburg invited Hitler to become Chancellor, after which he cemented Nazi dominance. In February 1933, Hitler convinced von Hindenburg to declare a state of emergency, which brought with it the legal suspension of civil liberties. Himmler, who was newly appointed as the police chief of Munich, ordered the arrests of those he regarded as a threat to the Nazis—including journalists, labour organisers, Jewish community leaders, socialists, and communists—and their incarceration in Dachau concentration camp. Hitler approved of Himmler's tactics and appointed him head of the political police across Germany.\n\nIn 1933, Himmler initiated plans to establish a \"Nordic Academy\" to assist the instruction of the SS upper ranks. He was assisted in this by Karl Maria Wiligut, an occultist who was popular in German ultra-nationalist circles. Himmler brought Wiligut into the SS—where he eventually rose to the rank of Brigadeführer—and gave him a private villa in Berlin.\nUsing Wiligut's prophecies as his guide, Himmler selected Wewelsburg castle in Westphalia to serve as a base for many SS operations. The architect Hermann Bartels was employed to oversee renovations to the castle to make it fit for the SS's use. As part of these alterations, one of the rooms in the building became known as \"the Grail Room\" with a rock crystal representing the Holy Grail being placed in a central position. Himmler also established a private museum at the castle, employing the young archaeologist Wilhelm Jordan to manage it.\n\nIn 1934, Himmler met the Dutch prehistorian Herman Wirth, who was then living in Germany, at the home of Johann von Leer, a Nazi propagandist.\nWirth was one of the most controversial prehistorians in Germany. After examining symbols found in rural Frisian folk art, he became convinced that they represented the survival of an ancient script used by a prehistoric Nordic civilisation. This script—Wirth believed—was the world's oldest written language and had been the basis for all other ancient scripts. He also believed that if he could decipher it then he would learn the nature of the ancient religion of the Aryan race. This belief conflicted with established scholarly understandings of the past; by the 1930s, scholars were aware that the world's two oldest scripts were those of Mesopotamia and Egypt, and that northern Europe only developed its own form of literacy, that of the runes, under the influence of Etruscan script between 400 BCE to 50 CE. Attempting to explain the lack of any archaeological or historical evidence for an ancient advanced Nordic civilisation, Wirth claimed that the Aryans had evolved in an Arctic homeland two million years ago, before establishing their advanced society on a land in the North Atlantic which had since sunken into the sea, giving rise to the stories about Atlantis.\n\nWirth's ideas were rejected and ridiculed by the German archaeological establishment, although they had gained the support of several wealthy backers, which assisted him in promoting them. Himmler was among those who liked Wirth's ideas. Himmler was interested in the pre-Christian religions of northern Europe, believing that a modern Pagan religion modelled on them could replace Christianity as the primary religion of the German people. Himmler disliked Christianity because of its Semitic origins, its presentation of Jesus of Nazareth as a Jew, and its advocacy of charity and compassion. Later, Himmler privately told his personal physician that after the Second World War, \"the old Germanic gods will be restored\".\n\nOn 1 July 1935, Himmler organised a meeting at the Berlin headquarters of the SS where he discussed his desire to launch a prehistoric research institute. Both Wirth and the agriculturalist Richard Walther Darré were present, and both responded with enthusiasm to the idea. The group was launched as a department of RuSHA.\nWirth became the group's president, while Himmler took the role of superintendent, a position entailing considerable control by placing him in charge of its board of trustees. Its formal goal was \"to promote the science of ancient intellectual history\".\n\nThe organisation was initially named the \"Deutsches Ahnenerbe\" Studiengesellschaft für Geistesurgeschichte (Society for the Study of the History of Primeval Ideas\", but this was soon shortened to Ahnenerbe. This was a German term for \"something inherited from the forefathers\".\nThe Ahnenerbe's first premises were at number 29 and 30 of the Brüderstrasse, a thirteenth-century street in Berlin. These corner buildings were rented from the city's department store magnate Rudolf Herzog. Initially, it employed seven members of staff. Reflecting Wirth's fixation on the idea of an ancient Aryan script, the organisation's early focus was upon what Wirth called \"script and symbol studies\". One of its researchers, Yrjö von Grönhagen, was for instance tasked with collecting the Finnish wooden calendars which were engraved with various symbols.\n\nStarting in 1934, Himmler began financially supporting and visiting excavations in Germany. This brought him into contact with archaeologists like , Hans Schleif, and Wilhelm Unverzagt, director of the \"Staatliches Museum für Vor- und Frühgeschichte\" in Berlin. Initially, there were two departments within the SS engaged in archaeology: the \"Abteilung Ausgrabungen\" of the \"Persönlicher Stab des Reichsführers der SS\" and the \"Abteilung für Vor- und Frühgeschichte\" at the RuSHA. The latter (\"RA IIIB\") was established in 1934 and was supposed to serve as a \"general staff\" for all SS activities related to prehistory. It was responsible for archaeological research and related propaganda and led by Rolf Höhne, a geologist. Höhne was eventually replaced by Peter Paulsen, an archaeologist, in October 1937. The department did not conduct any excavations itself, but was intended to extend the influence of the SS over other institutions, especially those responsible for education/research and monument preservation. In fact, Langsdorff did this in Himmler's personal staff. The department also tried to make use of pre-history in the training and indoctrination of SS members. When the RuSHA was restructured, the department was dissolved with its responsibilities passing to the \"Ahnenerbe\". The \"Abteilung Ausgrabung\" in Himmler's personal staff was established in 1935 on the initiative of Langsdorff. In March 1937, Höhne joined the leadership of this department. By 1937, it was responsible for SS excavations and maintained its own personnel for this activity.\n\nThe Ahnenerbe was, according to historian Heather Pringle, \"an elite Nazi research institute\". Its official mission as twofold. Its first purpose was to reveal new evidence for the accomplishments of the ancestors of the modern Germans \"using exact scientific methods\". Its second purpose was to convey its findings to the German public through magazine articles, books, museum exhibits, and scholarly conferences.\nAccording to Pringle, it was however \"in the business of myth-making\", repeatedly \"distorting the truth and churning out carefully tailored evidence to support the racial ideas of Adolf Hitler.\" Some members of the Ahnenerbe consciously altered their evidence and interpretations to match Hitler's beliefs; others appear to have been unaware of how their adherence to Nazi doctrine was shaping their interpretations.\n\nHimmler regarded the Ahnenerbe as an elite think tank which would sweep away previous scholarship on the development of humanity and reveal that Hitler's ideas on the subject were true.\nHimmler also believed that the group's investigations might reveal ancient secrets about agriculture, medicine, and warfare which would benefit Nazi Germany.\nIt employed scholars from a wide range of academic fields, including archaeology, anthropology, ethnology, folkloristics, runology, Classics, history, musicology, philology, biology, zoology, botany, astronomy, and medicine. Himmler believed that scholars active in all of these different fields would piece together a view of the past that would revolutionise established interpretations; in his words, it would represent \"hundreds of thousands of little mosaic stones, which portray the true picture of the origins of the world.\"\n\nOn July 1, 1935, at SS headquarters in Berlin, Himmler met with five \"racial experts\" representing Darré and with Herman Wirth, one of Germany’s most famous but also most controversial prehistorians. Together they established an organization called the \"German Ancestral Heritage—Society for the Study of the History of Primeval Ideas\" (\"Deutsches Ahnenerbe—Studiengesellschaft für Geistesurgeschichte\"), shortened to its better-known form in 1937. At the meeting they designated its official goal, “to promote the science of ancient intellectual history,” and appointed Himmler as its superintendent, with Wirth serving as its president. Himmler appointed Wolfram Sievers \"Generalsekretär\" (General Secretary) of the Ahnenerbe.\n\nThrough 1937, the Ahnenerbe was essentially engaged in amateur \"völkisch\" research. Financial and academic pressure caused Himmler to start looking for an alternative to Wirth as early as the spring of 1936. In September, Hitler negatively referred to Wirth's beliefs regarding Atlantis and their influence on \"Böttcherstrasse architecture\" in a speech at the Reichsparteitag.\n\nIn March 1937, the Ahnenerbe was given a new statute, implementing the \"Führerprinzip\" and giving Himmler extensive powers. Wirth was deposed as president and appointed honorary president, a powerless position. Himmler's position as \"Kurator\" was given more power.\n\nWalther Wüst was appointed the new president of the Ahnenerbe. Wüst was an expert on India and a dean at Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich, working on the side as a Vertrauensmann for the \"Sicherheitsdienst\" (SD, SS Security Service). Referred to as \"The Orientalist\" by Wolfram Sievers, Wüst had been recruited by him in May 1936 because of his ability to simplify science for the common man. After being appointed president, Wüst began improving the Ahnenerbe, moving the offices to a new headquarters that cost 300,000 Reichsmark in the Dahlem neighborhood of Berlin. He also worked to limit the influence of “those he deemed scholarly upstarts,” which included cutting communication with the RuSHA office of Karl Maria Wiligut.\n\nThe \"Generalsekretariat\" led by Sievers was turned into the institution's \"Reichsgeschäftsführung\". The Ahnenerbe was renamed \"Forschungs- und Lehrgemeinschaft Das Ahnenerbe e.V.\". It was moved from the RuSHA to Himmlers's personal staff.\n\nWirth and Wilhelm Teudt lost their departments in Ahnenerbe in 1938. In 1939, the statutes were changed again and Wirth was deposed as honorary president. Himmler's and Wüsts' titles were switched—Himmler now became president. Next to Wüst, the academic with most influence in the institution after 1939 was Herbert Jankuhn, who in 1937 still had categorically rejected cooperation with the \"unscientific\" Ahnenerbe.\n\nAhnenerbe was a mix between an SS department and an \"Eingetragener Verein\". Membership was open to all natural and legal persons. Its staff were SS members, many also working in other SS positions, and thus subject to SS jurisdiction.\n\nIn late 1936, Ahnenerbe took over the publication of Teudt's magazine \"Germanien\", first in cooperation with Teudt, then without him. The monthly now became the official voice of Ahnenerbe and was aimed at a wider audience. From December 1936, the magazine was distributed free of charge to all SS leaders.\n\nCooperation with other SS departments was initially limited but improved after 1937. Contacts with the SD-HA and the editorial team of the SS weekly \"Das schwarze Korps\" intensified. Ahnenerbe eventually had the scientific responsibility for the \"SS-Leithefte\" and in conjunction with the SS-HA, Ahnenerbe established \"Germanische Leitstelle\" and \"Germanischer Wissenschaftseinsatz\".\n\nIn 1939, the Ahnenerbe held its first independent annual convention, at Kiel. The event's success contributed to the trend that archaeologists were increasingly turning to the Ahnenerbe and away from Alfred Rosenberg's rival \"\".\n\nIn fiscal year 1938/39, the budget for the excavations department was 65,000 Reichsmark, about 12% of the Ahnenerbe's total budget. More than a third of that went to the Haithabu activities. Under Jankuhn's direction four more archaeological departments were set up: in April 1938 the \"Forschungsstätte für naturwissenschaftliche Vorgeschichte\" (a laboratory for analyzing pollen) was established at Dahlem under the leadership of . The \"Forschungsstätte für Wurtenforschung\" at Wilhelmshaven led by , the \"Forschungsstätte für germanisches Bauwesen\" led by Martin Rudolph and the \"Forschungsstätte für Urgeschichte\" directed by followed in 1939.\n\nThe organization was incorporated into the Allgemeine SS (General SS) in January 1939.\n\nAs a gift for Hitler's fiftieth birthday, among the presents which Himmler procured for him was a set of leather bound books, one of which was on the subject of the Ahnenerbe's research.\n\nThe Ahnenerbe sought to cultivate an air of professional integrity.\nThe Ahnenerbe became an integral part of the SS.\nBy 1939, the Ahnenerbe employed 137 scholars and scientists, as well as 82 support workers, including artists, photographers, laboratory technicians, librarians, accountants, and secretaries.\n\nHimmler used the Ahnenerbe's research to fuel and justify the Holocaust. In a 1937 speech at Bad Tölz, Himmler announced that the bog bodies of northwestern Europe, which testified to an Iron Age tradition in which individuals were deliberately killed and deposited in bogs, must have represented the eradication of homosexuals. This was an idea that he had adopted from Ahnenerbe archaeologist Herbert Jankuhn. His adoption of this suggestion was linked to his homophobic fear that male homosexuality was transmittable and that it could spread within the ranks of the SS and other spaces of male bonding unless strong measures were implemented to prevent it. Himmler then claimed this alleged ancient tradition as legitimation for the extermination of homosexuals within his own society. As many as 15,000 gay men were rounded up and imprisoned in concentration camps, where up to 60 percent died.\n\nAmid the German invasion of Poland, the Ahnenerbe sent a team into Warsaw to remove any items from its museums which they believed to be German in origin.\nAt the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939, the Ahnenerbe's further four planned expeditions—to Iran, the Canary Islands, the Andes, and Iceland—were indefinitely postponed.\n\nAt the end of the war, members of the Ahnenerbe destroyed much of the organisation's paperwork lest it incriminate them during future war crime tribunals.\n\nThe Ahnenerbe had several different institutes or sections for its departments of research. Most of these were archeological but others included the Pflegestätte für Wetterkunde (Meteorology Section) headed by Obersturmführer Dr Hans Robert Scultetus, founded on the basis that Hanns Hörbiger's \"Welteislehre\" could be used to provide accurate long-range weather forecasts, and a section devoted to musicology, whose aim was to determine \"the essence\" of German music. It recorded folk music on expeditions to Finland and the Faroe Islands, from ethnic Germans of the occupied territories, and in South Tyrol. The section made sound recordings, transcribed manuscripts and songbooks, and photographed and filmed instrument use and folk dances. The lur, a Bronze Age musical instrument, became central to this research, which concluded that Germanic consonance was in direct conflict to Jewish atonalism.\n\nIn 1935, Himmler contacted a Finnish nobleman and author, Yrjö von Grönhagen, after seeing one of his articles about the Kalevala folklore in a Frankfurt newspaper. Grönhagen agreed to lead an expedition through the Karelia region of Finland to record pagan sorcerers and witches. Because there was uncertainty about whether the Karelians would allow photography, the Finnish illustrator Ola Forsell also accompanied the team. Musicologist brought along a magnetophon, hoping to record pagan chants.\n\nThe team departed on their expedition in June 1936. Their first success was with a traditional singer, , who knew a song closely resembling one in the Kalevala although he was unaware of the book. Later, in Tolvajärvi, the team photographed and recorded Hannes Vornanen playing a traditional Finnish kantele.\n\nOne of the team’s final successes was in finding Miron-Aku, a soothsayer believed to be a witch by locals. Upon meeting the group, she claimed to have foreseen their arrival. The team persuaded her to perform a ritual for the camera and tape recorder in which she summoned the spirits of ancestors and \"divine[d] future events.\" The team also recorded information on Finnish saunas.\n\nAfter a slide show on February 19, 1936, of his trip to Bohuslän, a region in southwestern Sweden, Wirth convinced Himmler to launch an expedition to the region, the first official expedition financed by the Ahnenerbe. Bohuslän was known for its massive quantity of petroglyph rock carvings, which Wirth believed were evidence of an ancient writing system predating all known systems. Himmler appointed Wolfram Sievers to be the managing director of the expedition, likely because of Wirth’s earlier troubles balancing finances.\n\nOn August 4, 1936, the expedition set off on a three-month trip, starting at the German island of Rügen, then continuing to Backa, the first recorded rock-art site in Sweden. Despite the existence of scenes showing warriors, animals and ships, Wirth focused on the lines and circles that he thought made up a prehistoric alphabet. While his studies were largely based on personal belief, rather than objective scientific research, Wirth made interpretations of the meanings of ideograms carved in the rock, such as a circle bisected by a vertical line representing a year and a man standing with raised arms representing what Wirth called “the Son of God.” His team proceeded to make casts of what Wirth deemed the most important carvings and then carried the casts to camp, where they were crated and sent back to Germany. Once satisfied with their work at the site, the team set out on a trek through Sweden, eventually reaching the Norwegian island of Lauvøylandet.\n\nIn 1937, the Ahnenerbe sent the archaeologist Franz Altheim and his wife, the photographer Erika Trautmann, to Val Camonica, to study prehistoric rock inscriptions. The two returned to Germany claiming that they had found traces of Nordic runes on the rocks, supposedly confirming that ancient Rome was founded by Nordic incomers.\nAlso, an expedition to Sardinia was planned in the 1930s, but the reasons for it still remain unknown.\n\nIn 1938, Franz Altheim and his research partner Erika Trautmann requested the Ahnenerbe sponsor their expedition from Central Europe through Western Asia to study an internal power struggle of the Roman Empire, which they believed was fought between the Nordic and Semitic peoples. Eager to credit the vast success of the Roman Empire to people of a Nordic background, the Ahnenerbe agreed to match the 4,000 Reichsmark put forward by Hermann Göring, an old friend of Trautmann's.\n\nIn August 1938, after spending a few days traveling through remote hills searching for ruins of Dacian kingdoms, the two researchers arrived at their first major stop in Bucharest, the capital of Romania. There Grigore Florescu, the director of the Municipal Museum, met with them, and discussed both history and the politics of the day, including the activities of the Iron Guard.\n\nAfter traveling through Istanbul, Athens, and Lebanon, the researchers went to Damascus. They were not welcomed by the French, who ruled Syria as a colony at the time. The newly-sovereign Kingdom of Iraq was being courted for an alliance with Germany, and Fritz Grobba, the German envoy to Baghdad, arranged for Altheim and Trautmann to meet with local researchers and be driven to Parthian and Persian ruins in southern Iraq, as well as Babylon.\n\nThrough Baghdad, the team went north to Assur where they met Sheikh Adjil el Yawar, a leader of the Shammar Bedouin tribe and commander of the northern Camel Corps. He discussed German politics and his desire to duplicate the success of Abd al-Aziz ibn Saud who had recently ascended to power in Saudi Arabia. With his support, the team traveled to their final major stop, the ruins of Hatra on the former border between the Roman and Persian empires.\n\nThe third German Antarctic Expedition took place between 1938 and 1939. It was led by Alfred Ritscher (1879–63).\n\nExcavations that had been ongoing at Hedeby since 1930 were formally put under the aegis of Ahnenerbe in 1938 by Jankuhn.\n\nIn 1937/8, Gustav Riek led an excavation at the \"Heuneburg\" on the Danube in Baden-Württemberg, where an ancient fortress had been discovered much earlier. The Ahnenerbe thus won out over Hans Reinerth of the \"\" who had competed for the excavation. Riek focused on the burial mound known as where he found the main burial chamber to have been plundered in antiquity. In its direct vicinity another grave was discovered, however, that included rich grave furnishings. Due to the outbreak of war in 1939 the excavations were discontinued.\n\nA private expedition by Richard Anders and Wiligut into the Murg Valley of northwestern Baden-Württemberg had nothing to do with the Ahnenerbe.\n\nThe Ahnenerbe also was active in the \"\" (Mauern caves) in the Franconian Jura. R.R. Schmidt discovered red ochre, a common pigment for cave paintings made by the Cro-Magnon.\n\nIn autumn 1937, , a Frisian nationalist who had applied to the SS Excavations Department earlier that year, took over the excavation. His team proceeded to find artifacts such as burins, ivory pendants, and a woolly mammoth skeleton. They also discovered Neanderthal remains buried with what appeared to be throwing spears and javelins, a technology thought to have been developed by the Cro-Magnons.\n\nBohmers interpreted this to mean that Cro-Magnons had left these stones in the caves over 70,000 years before, and this was therefore the oldest Cro-Magnon site in the world. To validate his claims, Bohmers traveled around Europe speaking with colleagues and organizing exhibitions, notably in the Netherlands, Belgium and France.\n\nAt the Parisian Institute for Human Paleontology, Bohmers met with Abbé Henri Breuil, an expert on cave art. Breuil arranged for Bohmers to visit Trois Frères, a site whose owners allowed only a small number of visitors. First, however, Bohmers took a quick trip to London, followed by a tour of several other French points of interest: La Fond de Gaume (a site featuring Cro-Magnon cave paintings), Teyat, La Mouthe and the caves of Dordogne. Then Bohmers moved on to Les Trois-Frères.\n\nThe Ahnenerbe took great interest in the 900-year-old Bayeux Tapestry. In June 1941, its staff oversaw the transport of the tapestry from its home in Bayeux Cathedral to an abbey at Juaye-Mondaye, and finally to the Chateau de Sourches. In August 1944, after Paris was liberated by the Allies, two members of the SS were dispatched to Paris to retrieve the tapestry, which had been moved into the basement of the Louvre. Contrary to Himmler’s orders, however, they chose not to attempt to enter the Louvre, most likely because of the strong presence of the French Resistance in the historic area.\n\nIn 1937, Himmler decided that he could increase the Ahnenerbe’s visibility by investigating Hans F. K. Günther’s claims that early Aryans had conquered much of Asia, including attacks against China and Japan in approximately 2000 BC, and that Gautama Buddha was himself an Aryan offshoot of the Nordic race. Walther Wüst later expanded on this theory, stating in a public speech that Adolf Hitler’s ideology corresponded with that of the Buddha, since the two shared a common heritage. However, according to contemporary research Hitler himself was not interested in Buddhism or Tibet.\n\nAfter the invasion of Poland in 1939, Wolfram Sievers wrote to Himmler stressing the need to appropriate exhibits from numerous museums. The Reich Main Security Office \"Standartenführer\" Franz Six oversaw SS-\"Untersturmführer\" , who was commanding a small team that entered Kraków to obtain the 15th-century Veit Stoss altar. Because the Poles had foreseen the German interest in the altar, they had disassembled it into 32 pieces, which were shipped to different locations, but Paulsen located each piece, and on October 14, 1939, he returned to Berlin with the altar in three small trucks and had it stored in the locked treasury of the Reichsbank. After conferring with Hitler, who had not initially been told of the operation to capture it, it was decided to send the altar to an underground vault in Nuremberg, for safety.\n\nReinhard Heydrich, then head of RSHA, sent Paulsen back to Kraków in order to seize additional museum collections, but Göring had already sent a team of his own men, commanded by SS-\"Sturmbannführer\" Kajetan Mühlmann under the supervision of Dagobert Frey, to loot the museums. Mühlmann agreed to let Paulsen take items of scholarly interest back to the Ahnenerbe, while keeping artworks for Göring. During the looting, however, Hans Frank, the head of the German General Government in occupied Poland, issued an order dated November 22, 1939, prohibiting the “unapproved export” of Polish items. Paulsen obeyed the order, but his colleague Hans Schleif arranged for five freightcars of loot from the Warsaw Archaeological Museum to be shipped to Poznań, which was outside Frank’s control. In return, Schleif was appointed as a trustee for Wartheland. Paulsen later tried to take credit for the freightcars' contents in his report to RuSHA, but was reassigned.\n\nEduard Paul Tratz of the Ahnenerbe also removed some exhibits from the State Zoological Museum in Warsaw to the Haus der Natur, the museum in Salzburg of which he was founder and director .\n\nAfter the German Army conquered the Crimea in early July 1942, Himmler sent Herbert Jankuhn, as well as and Baron Wolf von Seefeld, to the region in search of artifacts to follow up the recent display of the Kerch “Gothic crown of the Crimea” in Berlin.\n\nJankuhn met with senior officers of \"Einsatzkommando\" 11, part of \"Einsatzgruppe D\", while waiting at the field headquarters of the 5th SS Panzer Division. Commander Otto Ohlendorf gave Jankuhn information about the Crimean museums. Traveling with the 5th SS Panzer, Jankuhn’s team eventually reached Maykop, where they received a message from Sievers that Himmler wanted an investigation of Mangup Kale, an ancient mountain fortress. Jankuhn sent Kersten to follow up on Mangup Kale, while the rest of the team continued trying to secure artifacts that had not already been taken by the Red Army. \"Einsatzkommando\" 11b’s commander Werner Braune aided the team.\n\nJankuhn was ultimately unable to find Gothic artifacts denoting a German ancestry, even after intelligence about a shipment of 72 crates of artifacts shipped to a medical warehouse. The area had been ravaged by the time the team arrived and only 20 crates remained, but they contained Greek and stone-age artifacts, rather than Gothic.\n\nIn June 1943, 27-year-old \"Untersturmführer\" Heinz Brücher, who held a PhD from Tübingen in botany, was tasked with an expedition to Ukraine and Crimea. \"Hauptsturmführer\" Konrad von Rauch and an interpreter identified as Steinbrecher were also involved in the expedition.\n\nIn February 1945, Brücher was ordered to destroy the Ahnenerbe's 18 active research facilities to avoid their capture by advancing Soviet forces. He refused, and after the war continued his work as a botanist in Argentina and Trinidad.\n\nAfter winning 20,000 Reichsmark in a writing contest, Edmund Kiss traveled to Bolivia in 1928 to study the ruins of temples in the Andes. He claimed that their apparent similarity to ancient European structures indicated that they had been designed by Nordic migrants millions of years earlier. He also claimed that his findings supported the World Ice Theory, which claimed that the universe originated from a cataclysmic clash between gigantic balls of ice and glowing mass. Arthur Posnansky had been studying a local site called Tiwanaku, which he also believed supported the theory.\n\nAfter contacting Posnansky, Kiss approached Wüst for help planning an expedition to excavate Tiwanaku and a nearby site, Siminake. The team would consist of 20 scientists, who would excavate for a year and also explore Lake Titicaca, and take aerial photographs of ancient Incan roads they believed had Nordic roots. By late August 1939, the expedition was nearly set to embark, but the invasion of Poland caused the expedition to be postponed indefinitely.\n\nIn 1938, the Ahnenerbe's president, Walther Wüst, proposed a trip to Iran to study the Behistun Inscription, which had been created by order of the Achaemenid Shah Darius I—who had declared himself to have been of Aryan origin in his inscriptions. The inscriptions were recorded atop steep cliffs using scaffolding that was removed after the inscriptions were made. Unable to afford the cost of erecting new scaffolds, Wüst proposed that he, his wife, an amanuensis, an Iranian student, a photographer, and an experienced mountaineer be sent with a balloon-mounted camera. The onset of the war however, saw the trip postponed indefinitely.\n\nEarly travelers to the Canary Islands had described the Guanche natives as having golden-blond hair and white skin, and mummies had been found with blond tresses—facts which Wirth believed indicated that the islands had once been inhabited by Nordics. His colleague Otto Huth proposed an autumn of 1939 expedition to study the ancient islanders’ racial origins, artifacts and religious rites. At the time, the Canary Islands were part of Francisco Franco’s Spanish State (\"Estado Español\"). Because Franco refused to side with the Axis when the war started, however, the trip was cancelled.\n\nBruno Schweizer had already traveled to Iceland three times in 1938 when he proposed an Ahnenerbe expedition with seven others to the country in order to learn about their ancient farming practices and architecture, record folksongs and dances, and also collect soil samples for pollen analysis.\n\nThe first setback for the expedition was the ridicule of the Scandinavian press, publishing stories in February 1939 claiming the expedition was based on false ideas about Icelandic heritage and sought old church records which did not even exist. An enraged Himmler publicly shut down the trip completely, but after calming down he allowed the planning of the trip to be secretly continued. The final setback occurred when Himmler’s personal staff was unable to get enough Icelandic crowns—Iceland’s currency. Not being able to quickly solve this problem, the trip was rescheduled for the summer of 1940. In May 1940, the British invaded neutral Iceland, but when the war had started the expedition had already been shelved.\n\nIn 1940, following the British occupation of Iceland, the Ahnenerbe-funded Bruno Kress, a German researcher who was in the country at the time, was rounded up along with other German nationals present on the island. Kress was interned in Ramsey on the Isle of Man, but was allowed to correspond with Sievers through letters. Kress’s \"Grammar of Icelandic\" was eventually published in East Germany in 1955. Kress also later worked for the East German \"Staatssicherheit\" (Stasi).\n\nAfter being appointed Commissioner for the Strengthening of the German Race, Himmler set to work with Konrad Meyer on developing a plan for three large German colonies in the eastern occupied territories. Leningrad, northern Poland and the Crimea would be the focal points of these colonies intended to spread the Aryan race. The Crimean colony was called Gotengau, or “Goth district” in honor of the Crimean Goths who had settled there and were believed to be Aryan ancestors of the Germans.\n\nHimmler estimated Aryanization of the region would take twenty years, first expelling all the undesirable populations, then re-distributing the territory to appropriate Aryan populations. In addition to changing the demographics of the region, Himmler also intended to plant oak and beech trees to replicate traditional German forests, as well as plant new crops brought back from Tibet. To achieve the latter end, Himmler ordered a new institution set up by the Ahnenerbe and headed by Schäfer. A station was then set up near the Austrian town of Graz where Schäfer set to work with seven other scientists to develop new crops for the Reich.\n\nThe final piece of the puzzle fell in place after Hitler read a work by Alfred Frauenfeld which suggested resettling inhabitants of South Tyrol, believed by some to be descendants of the Goths, to the Crimea. In 1939 the South Tyrolean were ordered by Hitler and Benito Mussolini to vote on whether they wanted to remain in Italy and accept assimilation or alternatively emigrate to Germany. Over 80% chose the latter (for details see: \"South Tyrol Option Agreement\"). Himmler presented Master Plan East to Hitler and received approval in July 1942.\n\nFull implementation of the plan was not feasible because of the ongoing war, but a small colony was in fact founded around Himmler’s field headquarters at Hegewald, near Kiev. Starting on October 10, 1942, Himmler’s troops deported 10,623 Ukrainians from the area in cattle cars before bringing in trains of ethnic Germans (volksdeutsche) from northern Ukraine. The SS authorities gave families needed supplies as well as land of their own, but also informed them of quotas of food they needed to produce for the SS.\n\nThe Ahnenerbe had tried to gain possession of the Codex Aesinas, a famous mediaeval copy of Tacitus' \"Germania\". Although Mussolini had originally promised it as a gift in 1936, it remained in the possession of the Count Aurelio Baldeschi Guglielmi Balleani outside Ancona, from where the Ahnenerbe tried to obtain it after Mussolini was deposed.\n\nOn July 29, 1943, the Royal Air Force's firebombing of Hamburg led Himmler to order the immediate evacuation of the main Ahnenerbe headquarters in Berlin. The extensive library was moved to Schloss Oberkirchberg near Ulm while the staff was moved to the tiny village of Waischenfeld near Bayreuth, Bavaria. The building selected was the 17th century \"Steinhaus\". While much of the staff was not ecstatic about the primitive conditions, Sievers seemed to have embraced the isolation.\n\nFinancially, the Ahnenerbe was separate from the NSDAP treasury and had to find funding from other sources including membership dues and donations. After 1938, it received funds from the \"Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft\". In addition, a foundation (\"Ahnenerbe-Stifterverband\") was established, set up with funds from business leaders. One of the largest donations, approximately 50,000 Reichsmark, came from Deutsche Bank boardmember Emil Georg von Stauß associates, including BMW and Daimler-Benz. The foundation also received royalties from patents partially held by the SS (see below). During the war, Ahnenerbe also received money from other SS departments and profited from the \"Arisierung\" of Jewish property—its headquarters in Dahlem had been purchased at half its market value. In 1940, another estate in Munich was added.\n\nIn 1936, the SS formed a joint company with Anton Loibl, a machinist and driving instructor. The SS had heard about reflector pedals for bicycles, that Loibl and others had been developing. Assuring that Loibl got the patent himself, Himmler then used his political weight to ensure the passing of a 1939 law requiring the use of the new reflective pedals—of which the Ahnenerbe received a share of the profits, 77,740 Reichsmark in 1938.\n\nThe \"Institut für Wehrwissenschaftliche Zweckforschung\" (\"Institute for Military Scientific Research\"), which conducted extensive medical experiments using human subjects, became attached to the Ahnenerbe during World War II. It was managed by Wolfram Sievers. Sievers had founded the organization on the orders of Himmler, who appointed him director with two divisions headed by Sigmund Rascher and August Hirt, and funded by the Waffen-SS.\n\nSigmund Rascher was tasked with helping the Luftwaffe determine what was safe for their pilots—because aircraft were being built to fly higher than ever before. He applied for and received permission from Himmler to requisition camp prisoners to place in vacuum chambers to simulate the high altitude conditions that pilots might face.\n\nRascher was also tasked with discovering how long German airmen would be able to survive if shot down above freezing water. His victims were forced to remain out of doors naked in freezing weather for up to 14 hours, or kept in a tank of icewater for 3 hours, their pulse and internal temperature measured through a series of electrodes. Warming of the victim was then attempted by different methods, most usually and successfully by immersion in very hot water, and also less conventional methods such as placing the subject in bed with women who would try to sexually stimulate him, a method suggested by Himmler.\n\nRascher also experimented with the effects of Polygal, a substance made from beets and apple pectin, on coagulating blood flow to help with gunshot wounds. Subjects were given a Polygal tablet, and shot through the neck or chest, or their limbs amputated without anaesthesia. Rascher published an article on his experience of using Polygal, without detailing the nature of the human trials, and also set up a company to manufacture the substance, staffed by prisoners.\n\nSimilar experiments were conducted from July to September 1944, as the Ahnenerbe provided space and materials to doctors at Dachau to undertake “seawater experiments”, chiefly through Sievers. Sievers is known to have visited Dachau on July 20, to speak with Ploetner and the non-Ahnenerbe Wilhelm Beiglboeck, who ultimately carried out the experiments.\n\nWalter Greite rose to leadership of the Ahnenerbe’s \"Applied Nature Studies\" division in January 1939, and began taking detailed measurements of 2,000 Jews at the Vienna emigration office—but scientists were unable to use the data. On December 10, 1941, Beger met with Sievers and convinced him of the need for 120 Jewish skulls. During the later Nuremberg Trials, Friedrich Hielscher testified that Sievers had initially been repulsed at the idea of expanding the Ahnenerbe to human experimentation, and that he had “no desire whatsoever to participate in these.”\n\n\nDuring the 20th century, little scholarly research into the Ahnenerbe took place. Many scholars had likely been dissuaded from exploring the subject because ex-Ahnenerbe members held prominent academic positions in West Germany and did not want younger historians or archaeologists investigating their links with the SS. The main scholar to explore the subject in this period was a Canadian historian, Michael Kater, who conducted his research while in Germany. As the University of Heidelberg sought to publish Kater's thesis on the subject in 1966, Walther Wüst unsuccessfully tried to legally prevent them from doing so. Kater's research was then published in 1974 as \"Das \"Ahnenerbe\" der SS 1935–1945\".\n\nFollowing German reunification in 1990, the East German scholar Achim Leube begun an examination of the surviving historical evidence on the Ahnenerbe, much of which had been based in West Germany. In November 1998, Leube oversaw an international academic conference on the Nazis' relationship with prehistory in Berlin.\n\nMany of the ideas inherited or developed by the \"Ahnenerbe\" remain influential. Canadian author Heather Pringle has particularly drawn attention to the influence of Edmund Kiss' various 'crackpot theories' concerning such matters as the World Ice Theory and the origins of Tiwanaku upon subsequent writers such as H.S. Bellamy, Denis Saurat and, later, Graham Hancock.\n\nMuch misinformation about the Ahnenerbe has circulated, due in part to adaptations of the group in fiction, and historically dubious conspiracy theories that sometimes confuse the Ahnenerbe with the roughly contemporaneous Thule Society, or the historically unverified Vril society.\n\nThe Ahnenerbe formed the basis for the depiction in the \"Indiana Jones\" franchise of Nazis searching for religious artifacts.\n\nThe Ahnenerbe is frequently referenced in \"The Laundry\" series of novels by Charles Stross.\n\nThe Tibetan expedition is alluded to in the Choose Your Own Adventure book, \"The Secret Treasure of Tibet\", in which one character who was in Tibet during World War II mentions encountering Germans who were looking for Siling-La, a location in Tibet with mystical properties.\n\nIn \"Wolfenstein\", there is a fictionalized in-game version of the Ahnenerbe called the SS Paranormal Division.\n\nIn \"\"s Nazi Zombies mode, the Ahnenerbe is featured as the primary antagonist, and Heinrich Himmler is mentioned during a conversation between the main characters.\n\nIn Season 3 of Amazon's TV drama The Man in the High Castle, an Ahnenerbe Institute is seen in Nazi-occupied New York City.\n\nIn the 2015 film \"Soldiers of the Damned\", a group of German soldiers is ordered to escort a female Ahnenerbe scientist into a Romanian forest behind enemy lines during the Second World War to retrieve a mysterious artifact that would enable communication with Aryan god-men to help win the war.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34447088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34447088", "title": "Aleksandre Pirtskhalaishvili", "text": "Aleksandre Pirtskhalaishvili\n\nAleksandre Pirtskhalaishvili () (1888 – 23 March 1965) was a Georgian, Soviet historian, Doctor of Philosophy (1942), and professor (1945). In 1915, he graduated from Kiev University, on Historical Faculty of Philology. In 1912 Pirtskhalaishvili went to Germany, and attended courses at Heidelberg University. After returning to Georgia he worked in pedagogy. In 1929 he was invited by the Tbilisi State University, where he lectured until his last days. He was exploring the history of 19th-century Georgia and Russian-Georgian relations.\n"}
{"id": "49409006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49409006", "title": "Ancella Radford Bickley", "text": "Ancella Radford Bickley\n\nAncella Radford Bickley is an American historian born in Huntington, West Virginia on July 4, 1930. She earned a bachelor's degree in English from West Virginia State College, now West Virginia State University in 1950, a master's degree in English from Marshall University (where she was the first full-time African American student) in 1954, and an Ed.D. in English from West Virginia University in 1974. She is involved in the preservation of African American history in West Virginia.\n\nBickley, professor emeritus of English, retired as vice president of academic affairs at West Virginia State University, and lives in Florida. She continues her work to bring greater recognition to African Americans, their history in Appalachia, and their accomplishments. With Lynda Ann Ewen, she co-edited \"Memphis Tennessee Garrison: The Remarkable Story of a Black Appalachian Woman\", published by Ohio University Press. Bickley has authored stories and articles, for example, in West Virginia's cultural magazine, Goldenseal. She also conducted and published interviews at Marshall University for the Oral History of Appalachia Program.\n\nIn 1993, Bill Drennen, commissioner of the West Virginia Division of Culture and History, recorded a thirty-minute interview with Bickley for the \"Cultural Conversations\" series.\n\nShe was a Rockefeller Foundation Scholar funded through Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Gender in Appalachia (CSEGA) at Marshall University, in 1999.\n\nThe West Virginia State Archives house a collection of documents gifted to them by Bickley, half of the materials relating to the annual West Virginia Conferences on Black History begun in 1988. Another portion of materials donated pertain to the Alliance for the Collection, Preservation, and Dissemination of West Virginia's Black History, organized to plan the conferences and foster efforts to preserve and collect black history statewide.\n\nIn 1997, Bickley published \"Our Mount Vernons\" to identify sites significant to West Virginia Black history.\n\nWith Lynda Ann Ewen, she co-edited \"Memphis Tennessee Garrison: The Remarkable Story of a Black Appalachian Woman\", published by Ohio University Press. She has written stories and articles for publications including West Virginia cultural magazine, \"Goldenseal\". She wrote a history of the West Virginia Schools for the Colored Deaf and Blind.\n\nOther works include the short stories \"Martha\", \"On This Rock\", and \"My Simple City\".\n"}
{"id": "28635878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28635878", "title": "Andrzej Kunert", "text": "Andrzej Kunert\n\nDr Andrzej Krzysztof Kunert (born 12 October 1952 in Warsaw) is a Polish historian and lecturer, specializing in the history of Polish resistance movement in World War II. Since April 2010 he serves as the secretary general of the Council for the Protection of Struggle and Martyrdom Sites.\n\nKunert graduated from the Institute of History of the University of Warsaw. In 1984-1990 he worked in the publishing house of the PAX Association. After the fall of communism, he worked as editor-in-chief of Bellona publishing house, and in the Museum of Polish Army. In 2002 he received a doctoral degree of historical science from the University of Zielona Góra. On 25 September 2009 he was awarded the Officer's Cross of the Order of Polonia Restituta.\n\nOn 16 April 2010, Kunert was named as the secretary general of the Council for the Protection of Struggle and Martyrdom Sites, succeeding Andrzej Przewoźnik, who died during the Polish Air Force crash six days earlier.\n\n"}
{"id": "32183551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32183551", "title": "Anne Francis (author)", "text": "Anne Francis (author)\n\nAnne Francis, \"née\" Gittins (1738 – 7 November 1800) was an English classical scholar and poet.\n\nFrancis was the daughter of the Rev. Daniel Gittins, rector of South Stoke, near Arundel, Sussex. She was educated by her father in the classics and Hebrew. She married the Rev. Robert Bransby Francis, rector of Edgefield, near Holt, Norfolk.\n\nThough lacking formal classical training, Francis was clearly in contact with the leading Old Testament scholars of the time: her \"Poetical Translation\" of the Song of Songs was dedicated to John Parkhurst, and other subscribers included Robert Lowth and Benjamin Kennicott. The \"Poetical Translation\" focussed on what she saw as the direct dramatic action of the song, rather than its Christian allegorical interpretation. Taking a cue from Thomas Harmer, Francis distinguished the voice of an 'Egyptian Spouse' from that of a 'Jewish Queen': in this love triangle, Solomon's marriage to the daughter of Pharaoh was resented by an earlier wife. Her translation has not received much continuous attention. Yet in the verdict of one recent commentator, Francis's \"insistence on bringing together learning and feeling, what she knew as male and female worlds, makes her Song of Songs an outstanding feminist monument.\"\n\nShe died on 7 November 1800.\n\n"}
{"id": "16558439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16558439", "title": "Antonio del Rincón", "text": "Antonio del Rincón\n\nAntonio del Rincón (1566 – March 2, 1601) was a Jesuit priest and grammarian, who wrote one of the earliest grammars of the Nahuatl language (known generally as the \"Arte mexicana\", MS. published in 1595). \n\nA native of Texcoco from the early decades of the Viceroyalty of New Spain and descendant of the \"tlatoque\" (ruling nobility of Texcoco), del Rincón was a native speaker of the indigenous language. Historians debate whether both his parents were indigenous Nahuas or whether he was a mestizo of half-Nahua, half-Spanish parentage. Historian Kelly McDonough considers him one of the first Nahua intellectuals. Guzman Betancourt calls him \"the first native linguist of the New World\". He entered the Company of Jesus at the age of 17 and quickly became known for his good grasp of the Nahuatl language and his sound theology. \n\nHis grammar ranks alongside those of Andrés de Olmos and Alonso de Molina as an influential primary source for the language as spoken in the post-conquest period. He was the first scholar to hear and mark the glottal stop and vowel length distinction in nahuatl, and he was an important influence on his later Jesuit colleague Horacio Carochi, who elaborated on Rincon's work in his own famous arte. Nahuatl grammarians have praised Rincón for being the first to analyze the Nahuatl language on its own terms, instead of building on the latinate molds of European grammars. Linguist Una Canger has written that \"When Carochi praises Rincón and underlines how he teaches with \"such mastery\", it is because of the organization of the Arte and because Rincón analyzes the language not according to the Latin model, but on its own terms. What Carochi adopted from Rincón is exactly the organization of the Arte.\n"}
{"id": "361850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=361850", "title": "Bar Hebraeus", "text": "Bar Hebraeus\n\nGregory Bar Hebraeus (122630 July 1286), also known by his Latin name Abulpharagius or Syriac name Mor Gregorios Bar Ebraya, was a \"maphrian-catholicos\" (Chief bishop of Persia) of the Syriac Orthodox Church in the 13th century. He is noted for his works concerning philosophy, poetry, language, history, and theology; he has been called \"one of the most learned and versatile men from the Syriac Orthodox Church\" (Dr. William Wright).\n\nBar Hebraeus collected in his numerous and elaborate treatises the results of such research in theology, philosophy, science and history as was in his time possible in Syria. Most of his works were written in Syriac. However he also wrote some in Arabic, which had become the common language in his day.\n\nIt is not clear when Bar Hebraeus adopted the Christian name Gregory ( \"Grigorios\", \"\"), but according to the Syriac Orthodox tradition of naming high priests, it may have occurred at the time of his consecration as bishop. Throughout his life, he was often referred to by the Syriac nickname Bar ʿEbrāyā (, which is pronounced and often transliterated as \"Bar Ebroyo\" in the West Syriac dialect of the Syriac Orthodox Church), giving rise to the Latinised name Bar Hebraeus. This nickname refers to his Jewish background, which means 'Son of the Hebrew'. His father was a Jewish physician. The name also refer to the place of his birth as well, ʿEbrā, where the old road east of Malatya towards Kharput (modern Elazığ) and Amida (Mesopotamia) (modern Diyarbakır) crossed the Euphrates. He is also known as Abu'l Faraj (in Latin, Abulpharagius).\n\nA Syriac bishop, philosopher, poet, grammarian, physician, biblical commentator, historian, and theologian, Bar Hebraeus was the son of a Jewish physician, Aaron (, ). Bar Hebraeus was born in the village of ʿEbra (Izoli, Turk.: Kuşsarayı) near Malatya, Sultanate of Rûm (modern Turkey, now in the province of Elazig). Under the care of his father, he began as a boy (\"a teneris unguiculis\") the study of medicine and of many other branches of knowledge, which he never abandoned.\n\nA Mongol general invaded the area of Malatya, and falling ill, sought for a physician. Aaron, the Hebrew physician, was summoned. Upon his recovery, the Mongol general and Aaron, who took his family with him, went to Antioch. There Bar Hebraeus continued with his studies and when he was about seventeen years of age he became a monk and began to lead the life of the hermit.\n\nFrom Antioch Bar Hebraeus went to Tripoli in Phoenicia, and studied rhetoric and medicine. In 1246 he was consecrated bishop of Gubos by the Syriac Orthodox Patriarch Ignatius II, and in 1252 he was transferred to Aleppo. In 1255 was transferred to the see of Laqabin and finally was made primate, or \"maphrian\", of the East by Ignatius IV Yeshu in 1264. His episcopal duties did not interfere with his studies; he took advantage of the numerous visitations, which he had to make throughout his vast province, to consult the libraries and converse with the learned men whom he happened to meet. Thus he gradually accumulated an immense erudition, became familiar with almost all branches of secular and religious knowledge, and in many cases thoroughly mastered the bibliography of the various subjects which he undertook to treat. Bar Hebræus preserved and systematized the work of his predecessors, either by way of condensation or by way of direct reproduction. Both on account of his virtues and of his science, Bar Hebræus was highly esteemed. He died in Maraga, Persia, and was buried at the Mar Mattai Monastery, near Mosul. He left an autobiography, to be found in Assemani, \"Biblioth. Orient.\", II, 248-263; the account of his death was written by his brother, Grigorius Barsawmo (d. 1307/8).\n\nBar Hebraeus' great encyclopedic work is his \"Hewath Hekhmetha\", \"The Cream of Science\", which deals with almost every branch of human knowledge, and comprises the whole Aristotelian discipline, after Avicenna and Arabian writers. This work, so far, has not been published, with the exception of one chapter, by Margoliouth, in \"Analecta Orientalia ad poeticam Aristoteleam\" (London, 1887), 114-139.\n\nThe \"Kethabha dhe-Bhabhatha\", (\"Book of the Pupils of the Eyes\") is a compendium of logic and dialectics.\n\nThe rest is to be found only in manuscripts, preserved at Florence, Oxford, London, and elsewhere. (3) \"Teghrath Teghratha\", \"Commerce of Commerces\", a résumé of the preceding, also unpublished. (4) \"Kethabha dhe-Sewadh Sophia\", \"Book of Speech of Wisdom\"; compendium of physics and metaphysics. To these should be added a few translations of Arabic works into Syriac, as well as some treatises written in Arabic.\n\nThe most important work of Bar Hebraeus is \"Awsar Raze\", \"Storehouse of Secrets\", a commentary on the entire Bible, both doctrinal and critical. Before giving his doctrinal exposition of a passage, he first considers its critical state. Although he uses the \"Peshitta\" as a basis, he knows that it is not perfect, and therefore controls it by the Hebrew, the Septuagint, the Greek versions of Symmachus, Theodotion, Aquila, by Oriental versions, Armenian and Coptic, and finally by the other Syriac translations, Heraclean, Philoxenian and especially the \"Syro-Hexapla\". The work of Bar Hebræus is of prime importance for the recovery of these versions and more specially for the \"Hexapla\" of Origen, of which the \"Syro-Hexapla\" is a translation by Paul of Tella. His exegetical and doctrinal portions are taken from the Greek Fathers and previous Syriac Orthodox theologians. No complete edition of the work has yet been issued, but many individual books have been published at different times.\n\nBar Hebraeus has left a large ecclesiastical history called \"Makhtbhanuth Zabhne\", \"Chronicon\", in which he considers history from the Creation down to his own day. Bar Hebræus used almost all that had been written before him, showing particular favor to the now lost chronographic records published by Theophilus of Edessa (late 8th century, although he has this only through Michael the Syrian and other dependents). The work is divided into two portions, often transmitted separately.\n\nThe first portion deals with political and civil history and is known as the \"Chronicon Syriacum\". The standard edition of the \"Chronicon Syriacum\" is that of Bedjan, \"Gregorii Barhebraei Chronicon Syriacum\" (Paris, 1890). An English translation by E. A. Wallis Budge exists.\n\nThis was to give context to the second portion, known as the \"Chronicon Ecclesiasticum\" and covering the religious history. That section begins with Aaron and consists of a series of entries of important individuals. The first half covers the history of the Syriac Orthodox Church and the Patriarchs of Antioch, while the second half is devoted to the Church of the East, the Nestorian Patriarchs, and the Jacobite Maphrians. The current edition of the \"Chronicon Ecclesiasticum\" is that of Abbeloos and Lamy, Syriac text, Latin translation. An English translation by David Wilmshurst was published by Gorgias Press in February 2016.\n\nBar Hebraeus towards the end of his life decided to write a history in Arabic largely based on the \"Chronicon Syriacum\", adapted for a wider Arabic-reading readership rather than solely for Syriac-literate clergy. This became the \"al-Mukhtaṣar fi-l-Duwal\". This was first published by Edward Pococke in 1663 with a Latin translation.. A modern edition was first published by Fr. Anton Salhani in 1890.\n\nIn theology Bar Hebræus was a Miaphysite. He probably, however, thought that the differences between Catholics, Nestorians, and the rest did not affect the common faith; hence, he did not consider others as heretics, and was not himself considered as such, at least by the Church of the East and the Armenians. Indeed, he once mused\n\nIn this field, we have from Bar Hebraeus \"Menarath Qudhshe\", \"Lamp of the Sanctuary\", and the \"Kethabha dhe-Zalge\", \"Book of Rays\", a summary of the first. These works have not been published, and exist in manuscript in Paris, Berlin, London, Oxford, and Rome. Ascetical and moral theology were also treated by Bar Hebræus, and we have from him \"Kethabha dhe-Ithiqon\", \"Book of Ethics\", and \"Kethabha dhe-Yauna\", \"Book of the Dove\", an ascetical guide. Both have been edited by Bedjan in \"Ethicon seu Moralia Gregorii Barhebræi\" (Paris and Leipzig, 1898). The \"Book of the Dove\" was issued simultaneously by Cardahi (Rome, 1898). Bar Hebræus codified the juridical texts of the Syriac Orthodox, in a collection called \"Kethabha dhe-Hudhaye\", \"Book of Directions\", edited by Bedjan, \"Barhebræi Nomocanon\" (Paris, 1898). A Latin translation is to be found in Angelo Mai, \"Scriptorum Veter. Nova Collectio\", vol. x. Bar Hebræus has left besides many other works. On grammatical subjects we have the \"Book of Splendours\" and \"Book of the Spark\", both edited by Martin, \"Oeuvres grammaticales de Aboul Faradj dit Barhebræus\" (2 vols., Paris, 1872); also works on mathematics, astronomy, cosmography, and medicine, some of which have been published, but others exist only in manuscript.\n\nA full list of Bar Hebraeus's other works, and of editions of such of them as have been published, will be found in W. Wright's \"Syriac Literature\", pp. 268–281. The more important of them are:\n\nHe is regarded as a saint by the Syriac Orthodox Church, who hold his feast day on July 30.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8365906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8365906", "title": "Bernard of Besse", "text": "Bernard of Besse\n\nBernard of Besse was a French Friar Minor and chronicler.\n\nHe was a native of Aquitaine, with date of birth uncertain; he belonged to the custody of Cahors and was secretary to St. Bonaventure. He took up the pen after the Seraphic Doctor, he tells us, to gather the ears the latter had dropped from his sheaf, lest anything of so great a memory as that of St. Francis might perish.\n\nHis \"Liber de Laudibus Beati Francisci\", composed about 1280, besides a resume of some of the earlier legends, contains brief and valuable information about the companions of St. Francis and the foundation of the three Franciscan Orders, and is the only thirteenth-century document which specifies the first biographies of St. Francis.\n\nAbout 1297-1300 he compiled a catalogue of the ministers general up to his time, which is also a source of importance for the study of Franciscan history.\n\nCritical editions of both these works have been published by the Friars Minor of Quaracchi [in \"Analecta Franciscana\", III (1897), 666-707] and by Father Hilarin Felder of Lucerne, O. M. Cap. \"Liber de Laudibus\" etc. (Rome, 1897).\n\nBernard also wrote the life of Blessed Christopher of Cahors inserted in the \"Chronica XXIV Generalium\" (ed. Quaracchi, 1897, 161-173) and is very probably the author of the \"Speculum Disciplinae\" and of the \"Epistola ad Quendam Novitium\" erroneously attributed to St. Bonaventure (See Bonav. Opera Omnia ed. Quaracchi, 1898, VIII, 583 sqq. and 663 sqq.).\n\n"}
{"id": "37730395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37730395", "title": "Bilin Bilin", "text": "Bilin Bilin\n\nBilin Bilin (born c. 1820; died 1901) was a member of the Yugambeh Bundjalung people in Australia, who gained respect of the European colonials and received a king plate for it. Alternate names for him include Jackey Jackey, Kawae Kawae, John Logan, and Bilinba.\n\nBilin Bilin chose to work with the Europeans and be friendly to Christianity, in so much as distributing Bibles, while maintaining his traditional beliefs. In his case, favoring diplomacy over confrontation helped his ability to stay on his ancestral land for most of his life. His diplomacy included demanding equal wages for his people and encouraging them not to leave their land. A LutheranPastor, Haussmann, taught him to read and write.\n"}
{"id": "37569595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37569595", "title": "Bornholms Middelaldercenter", "text": "Bornholms Middelaldercenter\n\nBornholms Middelaldercenter (Bornholm's Medieval Centre) is a family attraction near Østerlars in northeastern Bornholm, Denmark.\n\nOn of land just to the north of the village of Østerlars, the centre offers impressions of the Middle Ages, presenting daily life in a rural environment from around 1350 to 1450. It includes a watermill for producing flour, a forge, an archery range and old cottages. There is also a large fortress with battlements, towers and a chapel. Visitors can experience craftsmen at work and can participate in activities. During the annual medieval week, there are special events including jousting, battles and falconry.\n\nThe centre is open on Monday to Friday from May to September. In July it is also open on Saturday.\n\n"}
{"id": "3459628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3459628", "title": "Charles Jago", "text": "Charles Jago\n\nCharles Joseph Jago (born 1943) is an academic and university administrator.\n\nHe was born and raised in St. Catharines, Ontario. He received his BA in Honors English and History from the University of Western Ontario in London, Ontario in 1965 and his PhD in History from Trinity College, Cambridge in 1969. His academic field is early-modern Spanish history.\n\nHe received his first academic position at Georgian College of Applied Arts and Technology in Barrie, Ontario in 1969.The next year he moved to the Department of History at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario as Assistant Professor where he remained until 1987. In 1989 he was appointed Principal of Huron University College where he served for eight years before moving to the University of Northern British Columbia to succeed Geoffrey Weller as President.\n\nJago retired as President of the University of Northern British Columbia at the end of academic year 2005-2006. On the resignation of his successor, Don Cozzetto, in June 2008 he was appointed Interim President of UNBC, serving in this position until a new President, George Iwama, took over in July 2009. Dr. Jago was appointed to the Northern Health Board in August 2007. His current term expires in December 2015.\n\nCurrently acting as mediator between the BCTF and Ministry of Education over the current Bill 22 and teachers dispute in B.C.\n\n"}
{"id": "1109998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1109998", "title": "Debtors' prison", "text": "Debtors' prison\n\nA debtors' prison is a prison for people who are unable to pay debt. Through the mid 19th century, debtors' prisons (usually similar in form to locked workhouses) were a common way to deal with unpaid debt in places like Western Europe. Destitute persons who were unable to pay a court-ordered judgment would be incarcerated in these prisons until they had worked off their debt via labor or secured outside funds to pay the balance. The product of their labor went towards both the costs of their incarceration and their accrued debt. Increasing access and lenience throughout the history of bankruptcy law have made prison terms for unaggravated indigence illegal over most of the world.\n\nSince the late 20th century, the term \"debtors' prison\" has also sometimes been applied by critics to criminal justice systems in which a court can sentence someone to prison over willfully unpaid criminal fees, usually following the order of a judge. For example, in some jurisdictions within the United States, people can be held in contempt of court and jailed after willful non-payment of child support, garnishments, confiscations, fines, or back taxes. Additionally, though properly served civil duties over private debts in nations such as the United States will merely result in a default judgement being rendered \"in absentia\" if the defendant willfully declines to appear by law, a substantial number of indigent debtors are legally incarcerated for the crime of failing to appear at civil debt proceedings as ordered by a judge. In this case, the crime is not indigence, but disobeying the judge's order to appear before the court. Critics argue that the \"willful\" terminology is subject to individual mens rea determination by a judge, rather than statute, and that since this presents the potential for judges to incarcerate legitimately indigent individuals, it amounts to a de facto \"debtors' prison\" system.\n\nDuring Europe's Middle Ages, debtors, both men and women, were locked up together in a single, large cell until their families paid their debt. Debt prisoners often died of diseases contracted from other debt prisoners. Conditions included starvation and abuse from other prisoners. If the father of a family was imprisoned for debt, the family business often suffered while the mother and children fell into poverty. Unable to pay the debt, the father often remained in debtors' prison for many years. Some debt prisoners were released to become serfs or indentured servants (debt bondage) until they paid off their debt in labor.\n\nArticle 1 of Protocol 4 of the European Convention on Human Rights prohibits the imprisonment of people for breach of a contract. Turkey and the United Kingdom (due to concerns over British nationality law) have signed but never ratified Protocol 4. Greece and Switzerland have neither signed nor ratified this protocol.\n\nFrance allows for \"contrainte par corps\", now denominated \"contrainte judiciaire\", for money owed to the State by non-insolvant debtors aged from 18 to 65; its length is limited following the amount of the debt and aims to pressure the debtor to pay his debts, consequently the owed money stays owed to the State.\n\nIn the late Middle Ages, and at the beginning of the modern era, public law was codified in Germany. This served to standardize the coercive arrest (\"Pressionshaft\"), and got rid of the many arbitrary sanctions that were not universal. In some areas (like Nürnberg) the debtor could sell or redistribute their debt.\n\nIn most of the cities, the towers and city fortifications functioned as jails. For certain sanctions there were designated prisons, hence some towers being called debtors' prison (\"Schuldturm\"). The term \"Schuldturm\", outside of the Saxon constitution, became the catchword for public law debtor’s prison.\n\nIn the early modern era, the debtor’s detainment or citizen’s arrest remained valid in Germany. Sometimes it was used as a tool to compel payment, other times it was used to secure the arrest of an individual and ensure a trial against them in order to garnish wages, replevin or a form of trover. This practice was particularly disgraceful to a person’s identity, but had different rules than criminal trials. It was more similar to the modern enforcement of sentences (\"Strafvollzug\") e.g. the debtor would be able to work off their debt for a certain amount of days, graduated by how much they owed.\n\nThe North German Confederation eliminated debtors' prisons on May 29, 1868.\n\nAt present a comparable concept to debtors' prison still exists in various forms in Germany:\n\nIn England during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, 10,000 people were imprisoned for debt each year. A prison term did not alleviate a person's debt, however; an inmate was typically required to repay the creditor in-full before being released. In the Kingdom of Great Britain and the later United Kingdom, debtors' prisons varied in the amount of freedom they allowed the debtor. With a little money, a debtor could pay for some freedoms; some prisons allowed inmates to conduct business and to receive visitors; others (including the Fleet and King's Bench Prisons) even allowed inmates to live a short distance outside the prison—a practice known as the 'Liberty of the Rules'—and the Fleet even tolerated clandestine 'Fleet Marriages'.\n\nLife in these prisons, however, was far from pleasant, and the inmates were forced to pay for their keep. Samuel Byrom, son of the writer and poet John Byrom, was imprisoned for debt in the Fleet in 1725, and in 1729 he sent a petition to his old school friend, the Duke of Dorset, in which he raged against the injustices of the system. Some debtor prisoners were even less fortunate, being sent to prisons with a mixture of vicious criminals and petty criminals, and many more were confined to a single cell.\n\nThe father of the English author Charles Dickens was sent to one of these prisons (the Marshalsea), which were often described in Dickens's novels. He became an advocate for debt prison reform, and his novel \"Little Dorrit\" dealt directly with this issue.\n\nThe Debtors' Act of 1869 limited the ability of the courts to sentence debtors to prison, but it did not entirely prohibit them from doing so. Debtors who had the means to pay their debt, but did not do so, could still be incarcerated for up to six weeks, as could those who defaulted on debts to the court. Initially, there was a significant reduction in the number of debtors imprisoned following the passage of the 1869 Act. By 1870, the total number of debtors imprisoned decreased by almost 2,000, dropping from 9,759 in 1869 to 6,605 in 1870. However, by 1905 that number had increased to 11,427.\n\nSome of London's debtors' prisons were the Coldbath Fields Prison, Fleet Prison, Giltspur Street Compter, King's Bench Prison, Marshalsea Prison, Poultry Compter, and Wood Street Counter. The most famous was the Clink prison, which had a debtor's entrance in Stoney Street. This prison gave rise to the British slang term for being incarcerated in any prison, hence \"in the clink\". Its location also gave rise to the term for being financially embarrassed, \"stoney broke\".\n\nΙmprisonment for debts, whether to the tax office or to a private bank, was still practiced until January 2008, when the law changed after imprisonment for unpaid taxes, as well as other debts to the government or to the social security office, was declared unconstitutional after having been practiced for 173 years; imprisonment was, however, still retained for debts to private banks. The situation regarding imprisonment (προσωποκράτηση (prosōpokrάtēsē): custody) for debts to the government is still unclear, as courts continue to have this ability for criminal acts.\n\nAn eighteenth century debtors' prison is found within the Castellania in Valletta, Malta, now used as offices by the Ministry for Health. It remained in use as a prison until the nineteenth century. People who fail to pay their debts today are given prison sentences to be served at Corradino Prison in Paola.\n\nDebtors in the United Arab Emirates, including Dubai, are imprisoned for failing to pay their debts. This is a common practice in the country. Banks are not sympathetic to the debtors once they are in prison, so many just choose to leave the country where they can negotiate for settlements later. The practice of fleeing UAE to avoid arrest because of debt defaults is considered a viable option to customers who are unable to meet their obligations.\n\nMany Colonial American jurisdictions established debtors' prisons using the same models used in Great Britain. James Wilson, a signatory to the Declaration of Independence, spent some time in a debtors' prison while still serving as an Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. Fellow signatory Robert Morris spent three years, from 1798 to 1801, in the Prune Street Debtors' Prison, Philadelphia Henry Lee III, better known as Henry \"Light-Horse\" Lee, a Revolutionary War general and father of Robert E. Lee, was imprisoned for debt between 1808 and 1809 where he made use of his time by writing \"Memoirs of the War\".\n\nDebtors' prisons were prevalent throughout the United States up until the mid-1800s. Economic hardships following the War of 1812 with Great Britain helped swell prison populations with simple debtors. This resulted in significant attention being given to plights of the poor and most dependent jailed under the widespread practice, possibly for the first time. Increasing disfavor over debtors' prisons along with the advent and early development of U.S. bankruptcy laws led states to begin restricting imprisonment for most civil debts. At that time growing use of the poorhouse and poor farm were also seen as institutional alternatives for debtors' prisons. The United States ostensibly eliminated the imprisonment of debtors under federal law in 1833\nleaving the practice of debtors' prisons to states.\n\n\nWhile the United States no longer has brick and mortar debtors' prisons, or \"gaols for debtors\" of private debts, the term \"debtor's prison\" in modern times sometimes refers to the practice of imprisoning indigent criminal defendants for matters related to either a fine or a fee imposed in criminal judgments. To what extent a debtor will actually be prosecuted varies from state to state. This modern use of the term debtors' prison arguably has its start with precedent rulings in 1970, 1971 and 1983 by the U.S. Supreme Court, and passage of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978.\n\nIn 1970, the Court ruled in \"Williams v. Illinois\" that extending a maximum prison term because a person is too poor to pay fines or court costs violates the right to equal protection under the Fourteenth Amendment. During 1971 in Tate v. Short, the Court found it unconstitutional to impose a fine as a sentence and then automatically convert it into \"a jail term solely because the defendant is indigent and cannot forthwith pay the fine in full.\" And in the 1983 ruling for \"Bearden v. Georgia,\" the Court ruled that the Fourteenth Amendment bars courts from revoking probation for a failure to pay a fine without first inquiring into a person's ability to pay and considering whether there are adequate alternatives to imprisonment.\n\nA year-long study released in 2010 of fifteen states with the highest prison populations by the Brennan Center for Justice, found that all fifteen states sampled have jurisdictions that arrest people for failing to pay debt or appear at debt related hearings. The study identified four causes that lead to debtors' prison type arrests for debts:\n\nIn an article in \"The American Conservative\", Michael Shindler argues that another factor responsible for debtors' prison type arrests is that \"Whereas indigent defendants have a Sixth Amendment right to a court-appointed lawyer in criminal cases involving incarceration, indigent debtors in state and local courts have no one to defend them against the error and abuse that characterizes debt collection litigation.\" Similarly, Shindler writes, regarding explicitly illegal debtors' prison type arrests ordered by local judges,\"the reason these officials engage in this sort of excessive behavior is often due to ignorance.\" \n\nIn 2014, National Public Radio (NPR) posted a report stating that there were still cases of judges imprisoning people who have not paid court fees. The American Civil Liberties Union has been challenging such policies since 2009.\n\nIn September, 2015, the town of Bowdon, Georgia made international news when a sitting municipal judge, Robert A. Diment, was surreptitiously recorded threatening defendants with jail time for traffic violations if they did not provide immediate payment. The incidents caused the Bowdon Municipal Court to be closed for a month in order to implement changes in policy.\n\nIn 1976 Article 11 of the ICCPR – International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights – came into effect stating, \"No one shall be imprisoned merely on the ground of inability to fulfill a contractual obligation.\"\n\nThis international treaty contradicts many domestic laws of ratified states which allows for civil jail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29742193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29742193", "title": "Dorothy Harley Eber", "text": "Dorothy Harley Eber\n\nDorothy Margaret Harley Eber, (born 1925) is a Canadian author and one of the first people to transcribe and publish oral histories of Inuit people in Nunavut in both English and Inuktitut. She has devoted much of her life to preserving the history of the Inuit people. In the 1970s, she was one of the first writers to record their oral history on tape. She then completed the first oral biography of an Inuk, Pitseolak Ashoona, based on first hand accounts. Printed in both English and Inuktitut, it is said that \"Pitseolak: Pictures out of my Life\" was the first book, after the Bible, to be published in the Inuit language. Her multiple other works, including films and exhibitions, as well as her written material, have provided Canadians with a better understanding of Inuit culture. She is invited regularly to present at museums and cultural institutions worldwide, international conferences, and has contributed articles to international journals. She has served on committees to judge annual Inuit art competitions.\n\nEber was born in England of Welsh and Nova Scotian parentage and spent her early childhood in Wales and England. She attended schools in Wales, England, Ontario and Nova Scotia's Edgehill School for Girls. She is also a graduate of the University of Toronto. After graduation she worked as a reporter and in 1968 made her first trip to the Arctic to the community of Cape Dorset, famous for its Inuit artists. She returned in 1970 to do interviews with the graphic artist Pitseolak Ashoona. The book, with Ashoona's drawings and prints, was published the next year and has never been out of print. Since that time she has undertaken many more interview projects in the North. Tapes for her interviews are deposited in the Canadian Museum of Civilization, Ottawa. Over two summers, she also interviewed many elderly residents of Baddeck, Nova Scotia, who worked with Alexander Graham Bell on the hydrofoil and the tetrahedral kites which he developed there after the telephone made him famous. Her book \"Genius at Work: Images of Alexander Graham Bell\" was published in 1982 by The Viking Press, New York and later by Nimbus, Halifax, Nova Scotia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51713362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51713362", "title": "En-Gedi Scroll", "text": "En-Gedi Scroll\n\nThe En-Gedi Scroll is an ancient and fragile Hebrew parchment found in 1970 at Ein Gedi, Israel. It has been carbon-dated to the third or fourth century CE. It contains a portion of the biblical Book of Leviticus. It is significant as one of the oldest portions of the Bible in existence. The deciphered text fragment is identical to what was to become during the Middle Ages the standard text of the Hebrew Bible, known as the Masoretic text, which it precedes by several centuries, and constitutes the earliest evidence of this authoritative text version.\n\nThe En-Gedi Scroll was discovered in 1970 at Ein Gedi in Israel. It was found in the burned remains of a Torah Ark in the ruins of the ancient synagogue at Ein Gedi.\n\nAccording to radiocarbon testing performed by the Israel Antiquities Authority, the scroll has a probability of 88.9% of dating to 210-390 AD and 68.2% of dating to 235-340 AD. The scroll was written at Ein Gedi where there was a community of Essenes, the Jewish sect made famous for their probable association with the Dead Sea Scrolls.\n\nThe text deciphered so far consists of 18 complete lines and 17 partial lines of the first two chapters of Leviticus. The text is identical to the medieval era Masoretic Text, unlike the Dead Sea scrolls which have variations from the Masoretic. Emanuel Tov, of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem described the scroll \"This is the earliest evidence of the exact form of the medieval text\".\n\nThe ancient scroll was discovered in 1970 but was in such fragile state it disintegrated on touch and so was unable to be studied.\n\nTo read the fragile parchment, researchers used a micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) scan followed by volume cartography software to locate the ink within the burned scroll, and thus reconstructed the text of the document.\n"}
{"id": "7777981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7777981", "title": "Federico Kauffmann Doig", "text": "Federico Kauffmann Doig\n\nFederico Kauffmann Doig (born September 20, 1928) is a Peruvian historian and archaeologist.\n\nKauffmann Doig was born in Chiclayo, and spent his childhood and infancy in small localities of Cajamarca and Amazonas, particularly in Cocochillo (today Camporredondo) on the margin right hand of the River Marañon. Of German father, it is provided for the maternal side with forefathers of the millennial culture Mochica.\n\nOn having reached his secondary studies in the school Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe in Lima, he entered to the Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, who would grant him two times the doctorate: first in Archaeology and then in History.\n\nProfessor Doctor Federico Kauffmann-Doig was the Peruvian ambassador to Germany. A descendant of John Doig who was born in Maybole on June 24, 1792 and who emigrated to Peru in 1820. The ambassador has a doctorate in archaeology, as well as a second doctorate in history. He has lectured at several of Peru’s universities and, as a visiting professor at the University of Bonn he taught Peruvian and American archaeology. His prolific professional work has been honoured with the highest award given by Peru in the field of culture. He was the first Latin American to be awarded Sweden's Neubergh Medal. He has been decorated by the Peruvian government, as well as by the governments of Belgium, Austria and Sweden. He is a member of Peru's National Academy of History, an Honorary Member of the Barbier-Mueller Museum in Switzerland, a Member of the Royal Academy of History in Madrid, and the founding director of the Institute of Amazonian Archaeology. More about Professor Doctor Federico Kauffmann-Doig . Happy New Year 2011\nAs a university professor, Kauffmann Doig has exercised the Director's charges of the Museo de Arte. He is General manager of the Monumental and Cultural Patrimony of the Nation and the Director of the Museo Nacional de Antropología y Arqueología and History of Peru.\n\nHe has translated \"The Incas and their Ancestors\" and \"Machu Picchu: Inca Treasure\".\n"}
{"id": "2812446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2812446", "title": "Frederik Winkel Horn", "text": "Frederik Winkel Horn\n\nFrederik Winkel Horn (19 July 1845 – 17 November 1898), was a Danish historian and translator. Original archaeologist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5208858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5208858", "title": "Giovanni Colonna (archaeologist)", "text": "Giovanni Colonna (archaeologist)\n\nGiovanni Colonna (born September 4, 1934) is a contemporary Italian scholar of ancient Italy and, in particular, the Etruscan civilization.\n\nColonna is an emeritus professor at the Sapienza University of Rome where he has taught since 1980. He took his first degree at Rome in 1957, studying under Massimo Pallottino. He studied further at Rome and Athens and was then archaeological superintendent of south Etruria from 1964 until 1972. He has carried out numerous fieldwork campaigns in Etruria (Blera, Bisenzio, Bolsena, Montefiascone, Tuscania, Cerveteri, Ladispoli, Veii) and in other locations (Arcinazzo Romano, Saepinum, valle del Sinello, Festòs). With his wife, Elena Di Paolo, he excavated the necropolis at Viterbo and published two volumes: \"Castel d’Asso\" (1970) and \"Norchia I\" (1978).\n\nHe is well known for his work on the Etruscan site of Veii and the temple of Apollo at that site. He has also carried out extensive work at Pyrgi and is the author of numerous articles and books, now numbering more than 300. Colonna is a member of the Accademia dei Lincei in Rome. In 2005 he was honored with a massive, 4-volume, 2,695 page collection of his work and writing entitled \"Italia ante Romanum imperium: scritti di antichità etrusche, italiche e romane (1958-1998)\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3165928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3165928", "title": "Golden Age of Russian Poetry", "text": "Golden Age of Russian Poetry\n\nGolden Age of Russian Poetry is the name traditionally applied by philologists to the first half of the 19th century. It is also called the Age of Pushkin, after its most significant poet (in Nabokov's words, the greatest poet this world was blessed with since the time of Shakespeare). Mikhail Lermontov and Fyodor Tyutchev are generally regarded as two most important Romantic poets after Pushkin. Vasily Zhukovsky and Konstantin Batyushkov are the best regarded of his precursors. Pushkin himself, however, considered Evgeny Baratynsky to be the finest poet of his day.\n\n"}
{"id": "605405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=605405", "title": "Grigol Peradze", "text": "Grigol Peradze\n\nSaint Grigol Peradze () (\"St. Priest Martyr Grigol\"), (September 13, 1899 – December 6, 1942) was a famous Georgian ecclesiastic figure, theologian, historian, Archimandrite, PhD of History, Professor.\n\nGrigol Peradze was born in the village of Bakurtsikhe, in the Gurjaani district of the Kakheti region, in Eastern Georgia. His father, Romanoz Peradze, was a priest.\n\nIn 1918 Peradze graduated from the Tbilisi Theological Seminary, and afterwards studied at the Tbilisi State University until 1921.\n\nOn February 25, 1921, Georgia was occupied by Soviet Russia. Grigol Peradze went into exile in Germany in November the same year.\n\nIn 1926 he graduated from the University of Bonn (Germany). In 1927 he received a PhD degree in History (the title of his PhD thesis was \"\"History of the Georgian Monasticism from its creation until 1064\").\n\nFrom 1927 - 1932 Peradze was an Associate Professor at the University of Bonn. From 1933 - 1942 he was a Professor of Patrology at the Faculty of Orthodox Theology of Warsaw University, in Poland.\n\nIn 1931, Grigol Peradze was ordained a priest in the Greek Orthodox Cathedral of London; in 1934, he received the rank of Archimandrite. In 1931, he founded a Georgian St. Nino Orthodox church in Paris. In the same year he began to publish a Georgian scientific journal titled \"Jvari Vazisa\"\" (\"Cross of Vine\").\n\nIn the 1930s, Peradze discovered numerous important written manuscripts of Georgian Christian culture in Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, Italy, Germany, and Austria (Georgian manuscripts of the Typicon of the Georgian Petritsoni Monastery (Bachkovo, Bulgaria), the so-called Tischendorf manuscripts of the Apagae of the Monastery of the Holy Cross at the University Library in the University of Leipzig, Germany, etc.).\n\nThe invasion of Poland by German troops in 1939 made Peradze's position precarious. For him being in solidarity with Jews in peril went without saying; and he helped wherever he could. Nor did he hesitate to visit the imprisoned Polish Metropolitan Dionysios. These activities were viewed with growing suspicion by the Nazi occupiers and Peradze's fruitful ecclesiastic and scientific activities were brought to an end in 1942 when, on May 4, he was arrested by the German Gestapo. On December 6, 1942, Grigol Peradze was killed in the Nazi concentration camp of Auschwitz (Oświęcim) when he took the blame for the murder of a German officer to spare his fellow prisoners, or, according to another report, when he entered a gas-chamber in the place of a Jewish prisoner who had a large family.\n\nMain fields of scientific activity of Grigol Peradze were: the history of the Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church, source studies of the history of Georgia and the Georgian Church, Patrology, history of Georgian literature, Rustvelology (Shota Rustaveli was a great Georgian poet of the 12th century), etc.\n\nGrigol Peradze was canonized by the Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church in September 1995. The Feast Day for St. Priest Martyr Grigol is December 6 (or November 23, Old Style). In 2013, he was posthumously awarded the title and Order of National Hero of Georgia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18485505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18485505", "title": "Janet Catherine Berlo", "text": "Janet Catherine Berlo\n\nJanet Catherine Berlo is an American art historian and academic, noted for her publications and research into the visual arts heritage of Native American and pre-Columbian cultures. She has also published and lectured on gender studies, the representation and participation of women in indigenous and visual arts, the history of graphic arts since the mid-19th century, indigenous textile arts, and American quilting history and traditions. In the early portion of her academic career Berlo made notable contributions towards the understanding of the art and iconopraphy of Mesoamerica, in particular that of the Classic-period Teotihuacan civilization. Since 2003 Berlo has held the position of Professor of Art History and Visual and Cultural Studies at the Department of Art and Art History, University of Rochester, New York.\n\nBerlo attended the University of Massachusetts Amherst, where she obtained a B.A. \"Summa Cum Laude\" in 1974. Her postgraduate studies were undertaken at Yale, where she completed a Master's in art history in 1976, and her Ph.D. in the same subject area was awarded in 1980.\n\nAfter a semester as an instructor at Yale while completing her PhD, in the 1979–80 academic year Berlo became an assistant professor in the Art Department at the University of Missouri–St. Louis. Excepting some periods of leave and visiting appointments, Berlo remained associated with the UMSL for the next 17 years, reaching associate professor in 1985 and a full professorship in 1990.\n\nIn 1997 Berlo left UMSL for the University of Rochester, where for five years she held the positions of Susan B. Anthony Professor of Gender Studies and Professor of Art History. After a semester in 2002 as a visiting professor at Harvard, in 2003 she returned to Rochester as Professor of Art History and Visual and Cultural Studies.\n\nIn 2004 Berlo obtained a visiting fellowship at the Clark Art Institute in Williamstown, Massachusetts, to research \"19th-century women’s textiles and their place in American culture\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2440277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2440277", "title": "Joe McGowan", "text": "Joe McGowan\n\nJoe McGowan (7 January 1944, Mullaghmore, Co. Sligo, Ireland) is an Irish historian, folklorist, and author specialising in the history and heritage of Ireland. He is based in Sligo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52655964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52655964", "title": "Lewis H. Gann", "text": "Lewis H. Gann\n\nLewis Henry Gann (1924–1997) was an academic historian, political scientist and archivist. Although particularly known for his research in African history, Gann worked in a number of research fields including the history of Germany and the United States.\n\nGann was born in Mainz, Germany into a German Jewish family and was originally named Ludwig Hermann Ganz. In 1938, his family successfully escaped from Nazi anti-Semitic persecution and settled in the United Kingdom. He was educated at Carlisle Grammar School in northern England. In 1943, Gann enlisted in the Royal Fusiliers and served in World War II. He was demobilised in 1947.\n\nAfter the war, Gann joined the University of Oxford and gained a Bachelor of Arts degree in Modern History from Balliol College, Oxford in 1950. After graduating, he travelled to Central Africa where he took a research post at the Rhodes-Livingstone Institute in Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia). He continued his studies at Oxford and gained a masters (B.Litt.) and doctorate in 1967. He also worked at the University of Manchester (1952–54). In 1954, he emigrated to Southern Rhodesia after being offered a post at the National Archives of Rhodesia. Gann emigrated to the United States in 1963 where he took up a position at the Hoover Institution Library and Archives in Stanford University as curator of the Institute's African and European collections. He was a fellow of the Royal Historical Society in London and was an Officer of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany.\n\nDuring the course of his academic career, Gann had written or edited 38 books and academic monographs, mainly on the subject of African history and political science. He produced a number of important works in collaboration with Peter Duignan.\n"}
{"id": "6193684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6193684", "title": "Lillian Roberts", "text": "Lillian Roberts\n\nLillian Davis Roberts (born January 2, 1928) served from 2002 through 2014 as the Executive Director of District Council 37 (DC37), the largest municipal union in New York City.\n\nRoberts was a nurse’s aide, and was secretary of the University of Chicago Hospital local when she was invited by Victor Gotbaum to join his AFSCME union staff in Chicago in 1959. This began a professional relationship between Gotbaum and Roberts that lasted for decades. When Gotbaum became head of DC37, Roberts joined him in New York as a director of hospital field operations, and eventually became Associate Director in charge of organization. In 1969, she was jailed for two weeks for defying New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller and leading a strike against three mental hospitals.\n\nIn 1981, after events which decreased her power in DC37, she left the union and was appointed as New York State industrial commissioner, the first black woman to hold such a high post in New York. From 1987 to 1992, she was senior vice president of Total Health Systems, an HMO. DC37 was involved in a major scandal in the late 1990s, and Roberts' return to DC37 as Executive Director in 2002 was seen, as noted in Roberts' words, as a return to that \"old time religion\". She retired at the end of 2014 and was succeeded by her associate Henry Garrido.\n\n"}
{"id": "2549486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2549486", "title": "List of history journals", "text": "List of history journals\n\nThis list of history journals presents representative academic journals pertaining to the field of history and historiography. It includes scholarly journals listed by journal databases and professional associations such as: JSTOR, Project MUSE, the Organization of American Historians, the American Historical Association, Questia and Goedeken (2000), or are published by national or regional historical societies, or by major scholarly publishers (such as Cambridge University Press, Oxford University Press, the University of Chicago Press and Taylor & Francis). It does not include many of the world's 5000 journals devoted to local history or highly specialized topics. This list is a compilation and not one based on an exhaustive examination and judgment of quality.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1680106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1680106", "title": "Lolita fashion", "text": "Lolita fashion\n\nThe main feature of Lolita fashion is the volume of the skirt, often created by wearing a petticoat or crinoline. The skirt can be either clock-shaped or A-shaped. Components of the Lolita wardrobe consist mainly of a blouse (long or short sleeves) with a skirt or a dress, which usually comes to the knees. Lolitas frequently wear fashion wigs in combination with other headwear such as hair bows or a bonnet (similar to a Poke bonnet). Lolitas sometimes also wear Victorian style drawers under their petticoats. For further effect, knee socks, ankle socks or tights together with either high heels or flat shoes with a bow are worn. Other typical Lolita garments are a jumperskirt (JSK) and one-piece (OP).\n\nAlthough the origin of the fashion is unclear, it is likely that the movement started at the end of the 1960s with the fashion style and subculture Natural Kei, which romanticized the Victorian Period. At the end of the 1970s, this resulted in a new movement known as \"Otome-kei\", which slightly influenced Lolita fashion since \"Otome\" means \"maiden\" and maiden style looks like a lesser elaborated Lolita style. Before Otome-kei emerged, there was already a rise of the cuteness culture in the earlier seventies; during which there was a high emphasis on cute and childish handwriting in Japanese schools. As a result of that the company Sanrio began experimenting with cute designs. The cuteness style, known as \"kawaii style\", became popular in the 1980s. After Otome-kei, Do-It-Yourself behavior became popular, which led to the emergence of a new style called 'doll-kei' the predecessor of Lolita fashion.\n\nIn the years of 1977–1998, a large part of the Harajuku shopping district closed for car traffic on Sundays. The result was an increase in interaction between pedestrians in Harajuku. When brands like (1973), Milk (1970), and Angelic Pretty (1979) began to sell cute clothing, that resulted in a new style, which would later be known as 'Lolita'. The term Lolita first appeared in the fashion magazine \"Ryukou Tsushin\" in the September 1987 issue. Shortly after that Baby, The Stars Shine Bright (1988), Metamorphose temps de fille (1993), and other brands emerged. In the 1990s, Lolita became more accepted, with bands like Malice Mizer and other visualkei rising in popularity. These band members wore elaborate clothes that fans began to adopt. During this time Japan went through an economic depression, leading to an increase in alternative youth and fashion cultures such as gyaru, otaku, visual kei, and Lolita, as well as visualkei inspired clothing such as Mori, Fairy Kei and Decora The Lolita style spread quickly from the Kansai region and finally reached Tokyo, partly due to the economic difficulties there was a big growth in the cuteness and youth cultures that originated in the seventies. In the late nineties, the Jingu Bashi (also called the Harajuku Bridge) became known as meeting place for youth who wore Lolita and other alternative fashion, and Lolita became more popular causing a spurt of Lolita Fashion selling warehouses. Important magazines that contributed to the spread of the fashion style were the \"Gothic & Lolita Bible\" (2001), a spin-off of the popular Japanese fashion magazine \"\" (1998), and \"FRUiTS\" (1997). It was around this time when interest and awareness of Lolita Fashion began entering countries outside of Japan, with The \"Gothic & Lolita Bible\" being translated into English, distributed outside of Japan through the publisher Tokyopop, and \"FRUits\" publishing an English picture book of the Japanese Street Fashion in 2001. As the style became further popularized through the Internet, more shops opened abroad, such as Baby, The Stars Shine Bright in Paris (2007) and in New York (2014).\n\nOver time, the youth that gathered in Harajuku or at Harajuku Bridge disappeared. One possible explanation is that the introduction of fast fashion from retailers H&M and Forever 21 has caused a reduction in the consumption of street fashion. \"FRUiTS\" ceased publication while \"Gothic & Lolita Bible\" was put on hiatus in 2017.\n\nWestern culture has influenced Lolita fashion. The book \"Alice in Wonderland\" (1865), written by Lewis Caroll, has inspired many different brands and top magazines. \"Alice Deco\" being an example of a magazine that is named after the character. The reason that the character Alice was an inspiration source for the Lolita, was because she was an ideal icon for the Shōjo (shoujo)-image, meaning an image of eternal innocence and beauty. The first complete translation of the book was published by Maruyama Eikon in 1910, translated under the title Ai-chan No Yume Monogatari (Fantastic stories of Ai). Another figure from the Roccoco that served as a source of inspiration was Marie Antoinette; a manga \"The Rose of Versailles\" (Lady Oscar) based on her court, was created in 1979.\n\nPeople who have popularized the Lolita fashion were Mana and Novala Takemoto. Novala wrote the light novel \"Kamikaze Girls\" (2002) about the relationship between Momoko, a Lolita girl and Ichigo, a \"Yanki\". The book was adapted into a movie and a manga in 2004. Novala himself claims that \"There are no leaders within the Lolita world\". Mana is a guitarist and is known for popularizing of the Gothic Lolita fashion. He played in the band Malice Mizer (1999–2001) and founded an own band Moi Dix Mois (2002–present). These bands are categorized under the Visual Kei genre, known for their eccentric expressions and elaborate costumes. He founded his own fashion label, known as Moi-même-Moitié in 1999, which specializes in Gothic Lolita. They are both very interested in the Roccoco period.\n\nThe government of Japan has also tried to popularize Lolita fashion. The Minister of Foreign Affairs in February 2009, assigned models to spread Japanese pop culture. These people were given the title of Kawaa Taishi (ambassadors of cuteness). The first three ambassadors of cuteness were model Misako Aoki, who represents the Lolita style of frills-and-lace, Yu Kimura who represents the Harajuku style, and Shizuka Fujioka who represents the school-uniform-styled fashion. Another way that Japan tries to popularize Japanese street fashion and Lolita is by organizing the international Harajuku walk in Japan, this should caused that other foreign countries would organize a similar walk.\n\nPossible reasons for the popularity of Lolita fashion outside of Japan are a big growth in the interest of Japanese culture and use of the internet as a place to share information, leading to an increase in worldwide shopping, and the opportunity of enthusiastic foreign Lolitas to purchase fashion. The origin of the Japanese influences can be found in the late nineties, in which cultural goods such as Hello Kitty, Pokémon, and translated mangas appeared in the west. Anime was already being imported to the west in the early nineties, and scholars also mention that anime and manga caused the popularity of Japanese culture to rise. This is supported by the idea that cultural streams have been going from Japan to the west, and from the west to Japan.\n\nLolita is seen as a reaction against stifling Japanese society, in which young people are pressured to strictly adhere to gender roles and the expectations and responsibilities that are part of these roles. Wearing fashion inspired by childhood clothing is a reaction against this. This can be explained from two perspectives. Firstly, that it is a way to escape adulthood\nand to go back to the eternal beauty of childhood. Secondly, that it is an escape to a fantasy world, in which an ideal identity can be created that would not be acceptable in daily life.\n\nSome Lolitas say they enjoy the dress of the subculture simply because it is fun and not as a protest against traditional Japanese society. Other motives for lolita's could be that wearing the dress increases their self-confidence or to express an alternative identity.\n\nMuch of the very early lolitas in the 1990s hand-made most of their clothing, and were inspired by the Dolly Kei movement of the previous decade. Because of the diffusion of fashion magazines people were able to use lolita patterns to make their own clothing. Another way to own lolita was to buy it second-hand. The do-it-yourself behaviour can be seen more frequently by people who cannot afford the expensive brands.\n\nBecause more retails stores were selling lolita fashion the do-it-yourself behaviour became less important. Partly due to the rise of e-commerce and globalization it became possible to buy lolita clothing by Internet. The market was quickly divided into two main components: one which purchases mainly from Japanese or Chinese internet marketplaces, the other making use of shopping services to purchase Japanese brands, with some communities making larger orders as a group. Not every online shop delivers quality lolita (inspired) products, a notorious example is Milano (2014). with some web shops selling brand replicas, a frowned upon behaviour from many in this community. A Chinese replica manufacturer that is famous for his replica design is Oo Jia.\n\nMany lolitas considered being photographed without permission to be rude and disrespectful, however some rules differ or overlap in different parts of this community. Lolitas often host meetings in public spaces such as parks, restaurants, cafes, shopping malls, public events, and festivals. Some meetings take place at members' homes, and often have custom house rules (e.g. each member must bring their own cupcake to the meeting). Lolita meetings therefore are a social aspect of the lolita fashion community, serving as an opportunity for members to meet one another. Many lolitas also used to use Livejournal to communicate, but many have switched to Facebook groups in the interim.\n\nLolita fashion did not emerge until after the publication of the novel \"Lolita\" (1955), which was written by Vladimir Nabokov, the first translation of the novel in Japanese appearing in 1959. The novel is about a physical relationship between a twelve-year-old girl nicknamed Lolita, and a middle-aged man, Humbert Humbert. Because the book focused on the controversial subject of pedophilia and underage sexuality, lolita soon developed a negative connotation referring to a girl inappropriately sexualized at a very young age and associated with unacceptable sexual obsession.\n\n\"Lolita\" was made into a movie in 1962, which was sexualized and did not show the disinterest that Lolita had in sexuality. A remake was made in 1997. The 17 year old Amy Fisher, who attempted to murder the wife of her 35-year-old lover and whose crime was made into a film called \"The Amy Fisher Story\" (1993), was often called the Long Island Lolita. These mentioned media reinforced the sexual association Other racy connotations were created by Lolita Nylon advertisements (1964) and other media that used Lolita in sexual contexts. Another factor is that Western culture considers wearing cute clothing when adult to be childish, associating lolita with paedophile fantasies. In contrast, it is more acceptable for cuteness to be part of fashion in Japan.\n\nThe Lolita complex (also known as Lolicon) in writing about Lolita in sexual context. was a term used by Russel Trainer in his novel\" The Lolita Complex\" (1966) This term became popular within the otaku culture. and refers to paedophile desires. This expression of the Lolita complex can be found back in the nineties when school uniforms became a central object of desire and young girls were pictured as sexual in manga.\n\nWithin Japanese culture the name refers to cuteness and elegance rather than to sexual attractiveness.\n\nAnother confusion that often occurs is between the Lolita fashion style and cosplay. Although both spread from Japan, they are different and should be perceived as independent from each other; one is a fashion style while the other is role-play, with clothing and accessory being used to play a character. This does not exclude that there may be some overlap between members of both groups. This can be seen at anime conventions such as the convention in Götenborg in which cosplay and Japanese fashion is mixed. For some Lolitas, it is insulting if people label their outfit as a costume.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55855444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55855444", "title": "Mary Noel Menezes", "text": "Mary Noel Menezes\n\nSister Mary Noel Menezes OR (born 14 July 1930) is a Guyanese Roman Catholic nun and historian. She has been involved with the University of Guyana since 1967, as a lecturer, head of department, full professor, and professor emeritus. She specialises in Guyanese history, particularly that of Amerindians and Portuguese Guyanese.\n\nMenezes was born in Georgetown, British Guiana, to a family of Madeiran origin. She entered the Sisters of Mercy at the age of 17, moving to Pennsylvania for her religious training. She returned home in 1950 and taught at St. Joseph High School until 1952, when she moved to Jamaica to attend Saint Joseph's Teachers' College. She graduated with a diploma in education in 1954, and then until 1963 taught at the Sacred Heart Roman Catholic School in Georgetown.\n\nMenezes returned to the United States to attend College Misericordia (B.A. in history) and Georgetown University (M.A. in Latin American history). She taught briefly at Sacred Heart College, North Carolina, and then in 1967 took up an appointment as a lecturer in the Department of History at the fledgling University of Guyana. In 1970, Menezes won a Ford Foundation scholarship to study at the University of London, where she completed a Ph.D. (conferred 1973) on British policy towards Guyanese Amerindians in the 19th century.\n\nIn 1973, Menezes oversaw the creation of a Master of Arts program in Guyanese history, the first postgraduate degree offered by the University of Guyana. She was made head of department in 1977 and upgraded to professor of history in 1980, the first time in the university's history that position had been created. From 1978 to 1980, Menezes served as president of the Association of Caribbean Historians, the first woman to hold the position. She retired from teaching in 1990, and was made a professor emeritus in 2009. She published her most recent book in May 2017, aged 87, which was launched by President David A. Granger (one of her former students).\n\nFrom 1968 to 2003, Menezes ran the St John Bosco Orphanage in Plaisance, for boys aged three to sixteen. In 2000, she founded the Mercy Boys' Home in Georgetown for boys older than 16. She also served on the council of St. Joseph Mercy Hospital from 1985 to 2002. Menezes has received honorary degrees from Misericordia University (L.H.D., 1983), the University of the West Indies (LL.D., 2005), and Mount Aloysius College (L.H.D., 2008). She was awarded the Golden Arrow of Achievement by the Guyanese government in 1982, and in 2015 was inducted into the Order of Roraima.\n"}
{"id": "20260710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20260710", "title": "Meic Stephens", "text": "Meic Stephens\n\nMeic Stephens (23 July 1938 – 2 July 2018) was a Welsh literary editor, journalist, translator and poet.\n\nStephens was born in 1938 in the village of Treforest, near Pontypridd, in Glamorgan. He studied at Aberystwyth University and Bangor University, and at the University of Rennes in Brittany.\n\nFrom 1962-66 he taught French at Ebbw Vale in Monmouthshire. In Merthyr Tydfil he established the Triskel Press and in 1965 he began the periodical, \"Poetry Wales\". He learnt Welsh as an adult, and became a member of Cymdeithas yr Iaith Cymraeg and of Plaid Cymru.\n\nFrom 1967-90, Stephens was literature director of the Welsh Arts Council. Before retiring he was professor of Welsh Writing in English at the University of Glamorgan. He was a visiting professor in the English department of Brigham Young University (USA).\n\nHe wrote many articles about literature in Wales for the newspaper, the \"Western Mail\", and obituaries of eminent Welsh people for \"The Independent\" newspaper. He took a particular interest in the life and work of Rhys Davies, the novelist and short story writer, and served as secretary of the Rhys Davies Trust, which promoted the writing of short fiction in Wales.\n\nA few months before his death, he was awarded an honorary fellowship at his former university, Aberystwyth, whence he graduated in 1961.\n\nHe and his wife Ruth had four children - Lowri, Heledd, Brengain and Huw.\n\nStephens is credited as the first person to create the \"Cofiwch Dryweryn\" graffiti at the site of the former Welsh village, Capel Celyn, which has come to be regarded as an unofficial \"national landmark\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14330206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14330206", "title": "Michael Gannon (historian)", "text": "Michael Gannon (historian)\n\nMichael V. Gannon (April 12, 1927 – April 10, 2017) was an American military historian, academic, and former priest and war correspondent. He was born in Oklahoma into a military family. Following the death of his father in 1939, his family moved to Florida from Washington, D.C. He attended St. Joseph Academy in St. Augustine, Florida and worked at WFOY-Radio, hosting a call-in show and reading ads, among other duties. Later, he had a summer job as an announcer at Marineland when it was a SeaWorld-style attraction south of St. Augustine. He spent most of his career in Florida and died in 2017.\n\nDuring World War II, Gannon was a member of the American Field Service, in the 1950s he wrote on European military topics.\nGannon earned both his Bachelors and Masters degrees from Catholic University of America and later studied theology at the University of Louvain in Belgium. He became a priest in 1959, and received his PhD in history from the University of Florida in 1962. \n\nIn 1968, he was a war correspondent in Vietnam for the Catholic magazine \"America\". He taught at the University of Florida since 1974 with a teaching career spanning 38 years. He left the priesthood in 1976 and later married Genevieve Haugen. He taught about the history of World War II, and became Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus of History.\n\nOne well known work by Gannon is \"Operation Drumbeat\" (1990), sub-titled \"The dramatic true story of Germany's first u-boat attacks along the American coast in World War II\". Although written, in large parts, as a dramatic story, Gannon had researched the subject extensively, travelling to Europe to view sites and interview surviving participants. Official documents, on both sides of the Atlantic, were obtained to provide further information and the work is supported by significant notations. It chronicles the u-boat cruise of in January 1942 under Reinhard Hardegen to the American east coast and analyses the factors behind a major naval defeat for the United States which could have upset the western allies' war strategy.\n\nGannon was known for his study of Spanish colonial history. Among numerous awards and honours, he was a Knight Commander of the Order of Isabel the Catholic, granted by King Juan Carlos I of Spain.\n\nGannon died on April 11, 2017, two weeks before his 90th birthday.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3499706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3499706", "title": "Milan Ristović", "text": "Milan Ristović\n\nMilan Ristovic (Serbian: \"Milan Ristović\" or \"Милан Ристовић\") is Serbian historian and university professor.\n\nRistovic was born in 1953 in Pristina, Kosovo, then SFRY. He graduated from the department of Contemporary History, University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy. In 1981 he was awarded his master's degree and in 1991 he completed his PhD studies at the same faculty. From 1978 to 1989 he worked as an assistant at the Institute for Contemporary History in Belgrade. In 1990, he joined the Department of History, Faculty of History. In 1991 he was given the title of assistant professor. In 1998 he was elected associate professor and in 2001, he was appointed as full professor. His main field of research is European and Southeast European History in the 20th century with regional specialization in Germany, Great Britain and Austria.\n\nHe has been working as the chief editor of the \"Godišnjak za društvenu istoriju\" (Annual Social History Journal) since 1994 and he is the head of the Society for Social History since 1998.\n\nNotes:\n\n"}
{"id": "17252155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17252155", "title": "Mohammed Akensus", "text": "Mohammed Akensus\n\nMohammed Akensus (also Akensous) or Abu Abdallah Mohammed ben Ahmad Akensus al-Marrakushi (1797, (Sous) - 1877) was a well-known Moroccan historian and a minister under Mulay Slimane and moulay Abd al-Rahman. He is from the Berber tribe of Ida u-Kansus which inhabited the Sous region in southern Morocco.\n\nHe wrote on the reign of moulay Mohammed ben Abdallah and is the author of \"Al-Djaish al-aramram\" (The Great Army), lith. Fas (1918).\n\n"}
{"id": "27422958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27422958", "title": "Odd S. Lovoll", "text": "Odd S. Lovoll\n\nOdd Sverre Lovoll (born October 6, 1934) is an American author, historian and educator.\n\nOdd Sverre Lovoll was born in Sande, in Møre og Romsdal, Norway. He immigrated to the United States in 1946 and is a naturalized United States citizen. Lovoll received his education both in Norway and in the United States, passing university exams at the University of Bergen in 1961 and at the University of Oslo in 1966 and 1967. Lovoll graduated from the University of North Dakota (M.A. 1969) and from the University of Minnesota (Ph.D. 1973).\n\nHe served on the faculty of the University of Minnesota from 1967 to 1970. For thirty years, Lovoll served on the faculty of St. Olaf College. He retired from the King Olav V Chair in Scandinavian-American Studies at St. Olaf College in 2000. Lovoll continues a part-time appointment in History at the University of Oslo. From 1980 until 2001 he served as publication editor for The Norwegian-American Historical Association. In that capacity he edited and supervised publication articles mainly on Norwegian-American and Scandinavian-American immigration. He has been published in both Norway and the United States.\n\nIn 1958 Lovoll married Else Navekvien. They have two children: Audrey born 1960 and Ronald born 1963. Audrey has two children, and Ronald has three, all of which are mentioned in dedication pages in a number of his written works. Lovoll was decorated with the Knight's Cross First Class of the Royal Norwegian Order of Merit in 1986 by Olav V of Norway. In 1989 he was inducted into membership in The Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters. He was induced into the Scandinavian Hall of Fame at the 2001 Norsk Høstfest.\n\n"}
{"id": "36824221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36824221", "title": "Otto Lauffer", "text": "Otto Lauffer\n\nOtto Lauffer (20 February 1874 – 8 August 1949) was a German folklorist and cultural historian.\n\nOtto Lauffer was born in Weende (which is today is a district of Göttingen) on 20 February 1874 and spent his childhood there, until 1886.\n\nHe studied German language and literature studies, history and art history in Göttingen (enrolled on 22 August 1891), Berlin, Munich and again in Göttingen (enrolled 24 April 1894). In 1896 he was awarded his doctorate under the supervision of Moritz Heyne.\n\nIn 1902, Lauffer became an assistant at, and in 1907 director of the Historical Museum in Frankfurt. From 1908 until the opening in 1922, he oversaw the building of the Hamburg History Museum (now \"hamburgmuseum\"), continuing in his role as director until 1946.\n\nIn the same year that the University of Hamburg was founded, Otto Lauffer was granted the first professorship in folklore in Germany, which he retained until 1939. In 1922/23, he was also rector of the University.\n\nLauffer died on 8 August 1949 in Hamburg, and was buried in the Ohlsdorf Cemetery there (grave reference: \"R9 (29-30)\"). His collected works are to be found in the Hamburg University Library. On 20 February 1984, a memorial plaque was decidated to his memory in Weende.\n\nThe in Weende and the Otto Lauffer barge in Hamburg are named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "38483998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38483998", "title": "Rainbow cup", "text": "Rainbow cup\n\nRainbow cup (German: \"Regenbogenschüsselchen\", Czech: \"duhovka\" from \"duha\" - rainbow) is a term for Celtic gold coins found in areas once dominated by the La Tène culture. According to folk belief, Rainbow cups could be found where a rainbow touched the earth and could often be found in ploughed fields after heavy rainfall. They were thought to bring luck and had many different effects ascribed to them.\n"}
{"id": "26210633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26210633", "title": "Robert Aldrich (historian)", "text": "Robert Aldrich (historian)\n\nRobert Aldrich (born July 29, 1954, in New York) is an Australian historian and writer. Aldrich is a Professor of European History, he teaches and researches modern European and colonial history, including the history of France since the Revolution, the history of the French and British overseas empires, the history of 'sites of memory' and the history of gender and sexuality.\n\nAfter school Aldrich studied history in the United States of America, first at Emory University, Georgia, where he received his undergraduate degree, and afterwards at Brandeis University, Massachusetts, where he gained his Master's and PhD.\n\nAldrich joined the faculty at University of Sydney. He wrote several books on French colonialism in the Pacific and on the history of homosexuality.\n\nIn 2002 the French Government awarded Aldrich the Chevalier dans l'Ordre des Palmes Académiques. In 2008 he was elected a Fellow of both the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia and the Australian Academy of the Humanities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "222643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222643", "title": "Roy MacLaren (politician)", "text": "Roy MacLaren (politician)\n\nRoy MacLaren, (born 26 October 1934), is a Canadian politician, diplomat, historian, and author.\n\nBorn in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, he received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of British Columbia with a major in History, a master's degree from St Catharine's College, Cambridge, a Master of Divinity degree from the University of Trinity College and an honorary Doctor of Sacred Letters degree from the University of Toronto, another honorary degree from the University of Alabama, and in 1973 attended Harvard University's Advanced Management Program. In 2002, he received the Alumni Award of Distinction from the University of British Columbia.\n\nDuring twelve years with the Canadian foreign service, MacLaren's postings included Hanoi, Saigon, Prague and the United Nations in New York and Geneva. He served as the Canadian Chair of the Canada-Europe Round Table and the Canadian Institute for International Affairs. He has also served on the Canadian and British board of directors of Deutsche Bank plus a number of other multi-national corporations. He is also the Honorary Colonel of the 7th Toronto Regiment, Royal Canadian Artillery. MacLaren is currently the Chairman of the Canada-India Business Council.\n\nHis historical book, \"Canadians on the Nile, 1882–1898\" was published in 1978 and the following year he was elected to the House of Commons of Canada as the Liberal MP for Etobicoke North. In June 1983, MacLaren was appointed by Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau as Minister of State [Finance]. In June 1984, he was appointed to John Turner's short-lived cabinet as Minister of National Revenue, but was defeated in the September election by Conservative Bob Pennock. In 1988, he was again elected MP for Etobicoke North. After the Liberals won the 1993 election, he was appointed Minister of International Trade, but resigned that position and his seat in 1996, when he was appointed High Commissioner for Canada in the United Kingdom. He served in that position until 2000.\n\nRoy MacLaren is currently the Chairman of the Canada-India Business Council he also co-Chairs the Canada Europe Roundtable for Business, sits on the Council of the Champlain Society, the Executive Committee of the Trilateral Commission, the board of directors of the Royal Ontario Museum Foundation Board, is President of St Catharine's College Society, and a director of The Council for Business and the Arts in Canada. His published writings reflect his personal and professional experience, much of it concentrating on Canada's international history.\n\nWhile serving as High Commissioner in London, he published the historically significant diaries of explorer William Stairs. The depiction on the book cover of the expedition up Mt. Ruwenzori is based on a sketch by William Stairs now in the National Archives of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "2192998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2192998", "title": "Second Liberian Civil War", "text": "Second Liberian Civil War\n\nThe Second Liberian Civil War began in 1999 when a rebel group backed by the government of neighbouring Guinea, the Liberians United for Reconciliation and Democracy (LURD), emerged in northern Liberia. In early 2003, a second rebel group, the Movement for Democracy in Liberia, emerged in the south, and by June–July 2003, Charles Taylor's government controlled only a third of the country.\n\nThe capital Monrovia was besieged by LURD, and the group's shelling of the city resulted in the deaths of many civilians. Thousands of people were displaced from their homes as a result of the conflict.\n\nThe Accra Comprehensive Peace Agreement was signed by the warring parties on August 18, 2003 marking the political end of the conflict and beginning of the country's transition to democracy under the National Transitional Government of Liberia which was led by interim President Gyude Bryant until the Liberian general election of 2005.\n\nThe First Liberian Civil War ended with the Liberian general election, 1997 in which Charles Taylor took power.\n\nThe second civil war began in April 1999, when Liberian dissidents under the banner of the Organization of Displaced Liberians invaded Liberia from Guinea. Guinea became LURD’s main source of military and financial support. By July 2000, the various dissident groups had coalesced as the LURD led by Sekou Conneh. The dissidents were thought to be mostly Mandinka and Krahn fighters of the former ULIMO-J and ULIMO-K.\n\nAlso important in forming LURD was an alliance, brokered by ECOMOG-SL Nigerian chief General Maxwell Khobe, between Liberian dissidents and the Sierra Leonean Kamajors hunter militia, including chiefs Samuel Hinga Norman and Eddie Massally. Against the dissidents Taylor deployed irregular ex-National Patriotic Front of Liberia fighters with his more privileged units, such as the Anti-Terrorist Unit, positioned to ensure the irregulars did fight.\n\nSimultaneous September 2000 counter-attacks on Guinea from Liberia and Sierra Leone by RUF – still loyal to Taylor and Guinean dissidents – achieved initial success. By January 2001, however, Taylor’s forces were pushed back inside Sierra Leone and Liberia. The insurgents were posing a major threat to the Taylor government. Liberia was now engaged in a complex three-way conflict with Sierra Leone and the Guinea Republic.\n\nBy the beginning of 2002, both of these countries were supporting LURD, while Taylor was supporting various opposition factions in both countries. By supporting — practically creating — the SL rebels, the Revolutionary United Front, Taylor also drew the enmity of the British and Americans. British and U.S. pressure on Taylor increased with rising financial support for Guinea and U.S./U.K.-proposed sanctions, a weaker version of which were imposed by U.N. Security Council May 2001.\n\nBy mid-February 2002 LURD troops were just 44 kilometres from Monrovia, at Klay Junction, and Taylor was forced to declare a state of emergency. The February 2002 ICG report says that this attack was made by pursuing ‘a strategy of infiltration of south-western Liberia through the thick bush of Southern Lofa, looping around government strongholds and disrupting supply lines... while LURD claims between 300 and 500 men were assigned to that mission, ... the number that actually attacked was likely closer to twenty.’ Any image of a large force gradually pushing toward Monrovia is mistaken; ‘hit and run’ raids, rather than a continuous advance, seem to have been the pattern.\n\nThrough the first half of 2002 LURD mounted raids in Bomi, Bong, and Montserrado counties, hitting, in addition to Klay Junction, Gbarnga and Tubmanburg, each time temporarily seizing control from government fighters. In May, an attack on Arthington, less than 20 kilometres from the capital, apparently prompted panic in Monrovia. The state of emergency was lifted in September 2002, after, the government claimed, the township of Bopolu had been retaken.\n\nIn early 2003, a second rebel group, the Ivoirian-backed Movement for Democracy in Liberia (MODEL), emerged in the south, and by the summer of 2003, Taylor's government controlled only a third of the country. Despite some setbacks, by mid-2003 LURD controlled the northern third of the country and was threatening the capital. The capital Monrovia was besieged by LURD, and that group's shelling of the city resulted in the deaths of many civilians. Thousands of people were displaced from their homes as a result of the conflict.\n\nA new bout of fighting began in March 2003 after a relative lull and by early May, LURD and MODEL had gained control of nearly two thirds of the country, and were threatening Monrovia. Regional and wider pressure led to the convening of a conference in Accra by the then Chair of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), President John Kufuor of Ghana, on June 4, 2003.\n\nBy July 2003 Monrovia appeared to be in danger of being occupied and devastated despite ongoing peace talks. The U.S. established Joint Task Force Liberia, built around a U.S. navy amphibious group with the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit aboard, positioned off the West African coast.\n\nIn July 2003 the United States (US) sent a small number of troops to bolster security around the US embassy in Monrovia, which had come under attack during Operation Shining Express. On July 25, 2003, the Southern Europe Task Force at Vicenza, Italy was designated the lead U.S. Army command for the operation.\n\nOn 29 July 2003, LURD declared a ceasefire. ECOWAS sent two battalions of Nigerian peacekeepers to Liberia. The first Nigerian battalion detached from the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone, and the second came from Nigeria itself.\n\nPresident Taylor resigned on August 11, 2003, ahead of the Accra Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) which formed the negotiated end to the war, and was flown into exile in Nigeria. An arrest warrant for Taylor for war crimes committed by his Revolutionary United Front rebel allies in Sierra Leone was later issued by Interpol but Nigeria refused to deport him for a time unless they receive a specific request from Liberia. Vice-President Moses Blah replaced Taylor.\n\nOn August 14, rebels lifted their siege of Monrovia and 200 American soldiers landed to support a West African peace force. Thousands of people danced and sang as American troops and ECOMIL, the Nigerian-led West African forces, took over the port and bridges which had split the capital into government and rebel-held zones. An estimated 1,000 people had been killed in Monrovia between July 18 and August 14.\n\nMoses Blah handed over power to the National Transitional Government of Liberia on October 14, 2003. However, the transitional government exercised no real authority in the country, 80% of which was controlled by the rebel groups.\n\nBoth LURD and Charles Taylor made extensive use of children press ganged into military service as soldiers or ammunition porters. The use of child soldiers was prolific by both sides, regardless of prohibitions of the practice in the Geneva Convention. Observers from Human Rights Watch described a deadly and chaotic siege of Monrovia, with many very young fighters shooting \"shiny toys\" they had not been trained to use.\n\nDrugs made up an integral part of Liberian wartime culture. Child soldiers and other combatants were routinely addicted to cocaine, khat, and other drugs as a means of control. Several warlords felt that cocaine made soldiers more effective in battle.\n\nIn November 1997, following the completion of the mandate of the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia UNOMIL on 30 September, the United Nations established the United Nations Peace-building Support Office in Liberia (UNOL), headed by a representative of the Secretary-General. That first United Nations post-conflict peace-building support office was tasked primarily with assisting the government in consolidating peace following the July 1997 multiparty elections.\n\nOn September 11, 2003, UN Secretary General Kofi Annan recommended deployment of the peacekeeping mission, the United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL), to maintain the peace agreement. The UN Security Council approved the mission on September 19 in Resolution 1509. Nigeria sent in peacekeepers as part of the interim ECOMIL Economic Community of West African States force. UNMIL was made up of over 15,000 personnel, including both military and civilian troops.\n\nThe bulk of the personnel were armed military troops, but there were also civilian policemen, as well as political advisers and humanitarian aid workers. On October 1, the first peacekeepers changed their berets and became a UN force, with many more troops earmarked. During three days of riots in Monrovia in October 2004, nearly 400 people were wounded and 15 killed. The UN slowly built up its forces in the country, with 5,500 projected to be in place by November 2003, and worked to disarm the various factions. However, instability in neighbouring countries, an incomplete disarmament process, and general discontent threatened Liberia's fragile peace.\n\nA group of Liberian women headed by Leymah Gbowee formed an organization called \"Women of Liberia Mass Action for Peace\" and forced a meeting with President Charles Taylor, extracting a promise from him to attend peace talks in Ghana. A delegation of women organized nonviolence protests and continued to apply pressure on the warring factions during the peace process. They staged a silent protest outside of the Presidential Palace, bringing about an agreement during the stalled peace talks.\n\nWorking together, over 3,000 Christian and Muslim women mobilized their efforts, and as a result, the women were able to achieve peace in Liberia after a 14-year civil war and helped bring to power the country's first female president. The story is told in the 2008 documentary film \"Pray the Devil Back to Hell\". Ellen Johnson Sirleaf is the first modern elected female head of state in Africa.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1013518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1013518", "title": "Shalford Mill", "text": "Shalford Mill\n\nShalford Mill is an 18th-century Grade II* listed watermill located on the River Tillingbourne in Shalford, near Guildford, Surrey, England. In 1932, the mill was endowed to the National Trust by a group of eccentric young female philanthropists called Ferguson's Gang.\n\nThe Domesday Book records a mill being present on the site in 1086 - one of the five mills recorded as part of the great manor of Bramley. In the 15th century, the mill was owned by 'John atte Lee'. In the 16th by Sir Edmund Walsingham and in 1599 it was sold to George Austen.\n\nThe present timber-framed building, built around 1750 by John Mildred of Guildford, was unusual in that it originally housed two separate mills, each with its own waterwheel and machinery. The mill was operated for most of the 18th century by the Mildred family, first by John, then by his sons, Thomas and John, and then by his grandson, Daniel. In 1794 it was sold to Robert Austen and remained in his family, later the Godwin-Austens, for the rest of its working life. The eastern half of the mill ceased operation about 1870 and the machinery was removed. The western half remained in operation until 1914. Subsequently the mill was used as a seed store and later as a furniture store. By 1927 it was unused.\n\nIn danger of being demolished with its timbers sold off and the land marketed as building plots, Peggy Pollard, alias Bill Stickers, and Brynhild Catherine Jervis-Read, alias Sister Agatha, of Ferguson's Gang, persuaded the Godwin-Austen trust to donate the watermill to the National Trust on the understanding that the Gang would raise the money for its repair and future running costs. The repair was supervised by the conservation architect John Eric Miers Macgregor OBE who went on to become an important member of Ferguson's Gang and was given the pseudonym \"The Artichoke\". He and his family used Shalford Mill as a weekend retreat and his daughter Joanna Bagnall is the current tenant. The titular head of the Godwin Austen Estate, Major Arthur Godwin-Austen was admitted to the Gang and given the pseudonym of \"The Pious Yudhishthira\". From 1932 until 1966 Ferguson's Gang had its headquarters at Shalford Mill.\n\nThe gang's headquarters are opened to the public by the present tenant of Shalford Mill on request. Amongst other 1930s memorabilia there are two bunks salvaged from the R100 airship.\n\nThe National Trust converted the eastern half to residential accommodation. The western half with its machinery was preserved and restored though not to working order.\n\nThe mill was constructed to a very high standard, presumably as a demonstration of John Mildred's status. The timber framed building has a clay tile roof and the walls are tile-hung to the level of the brick base. Diamond pattern leaded lights echo the tiling. Uniquely in Surrey, it has a lucam or projection of the upper story over the roadway to allow wagons to be loaded and unloaded easily.\n\nOriginally each half of the mill had two pairs of millstones, the eastern sets were used to produce high quality flour for the domestic market. The western sets consisted of a coarse pair for grinding animal feed and a fine pair for grinding corn. Each pair was driven by a diameter breastshot water wheel. After the eastern side was closed a third pair of stones was added to the western half.\n\nThough the Mildreds were the original proprietors, they probably employed a miller to do the actual work.\nAfter the sale in 1794 the following millers are known:\n\nThe mill opens to the public on Wednesdays and Sundays during the summer months.\n\n"}
{"id": "8028338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8028338", "title": "Systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment", "text": "Systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment\n\nSystematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment (SELEX), also referred to as \"in vitro selection\" or \"in vitro evolution\", is a combinatorial chemistry technique in molecular biology for producing oligonucleotides of either single-stranded DNA or RNA that specifically bind to a target ligand or ligands, which are commonly referred to as aptamers. \nAlthough SELEX has emerged as the most commonly used name for the procedure, some researchers have referred to it as SAAB (selected and amplified binding site) and CASTing (cyclic amplification and selection of targets) SELEX was first introduced in 1990. In 2015 a special issue was published in the Journal of Molecular Evolution in the honor of quarter century of the SELEX discovery.\n\nThe process begins with the synthesis of a very large oligonucleotide library consisting of randomly generated sequences of fixed length flanked by constant 5' and 3' ends that serve as primers. For a randomly generated region of length \"n\", the number of possible sequences in the library is 4 (\"n\" positions with four possibilities (A,T,C,G) at each position). The sequences in the library are exposed to the target ligand - which may be a protein or a small organic compound - and those that do not bind the target are removed, usually by affinity chromatography or target capture on paramagnetic beads. The bound sequences are eluted and amplified by PCR to prepare for subsequent rounds of selection in which the stringency of the elution conditions can be increased to identify the tightest-binding sequences. A caution to consider in this method is that the selection of extremely high, sub-nanomolar binding affinity entities may not in fact improve specificity for the target molecule. Off-target binding to related molecules could have significant clinical effects.\n\nSELEX has been used to develop a number of aptamers that bind targets interesting for both clinical and research purposes. Also towards these ends, a number of nucleotides with chemically modified sugars and bases have been incorporated into SELEX reactions. These modified nucleotides allow for the selection of aptamers with novel binding properties and potentially improved stability.\n\nThe first step of SELEX involves the synthesis of fully or partially randomized oligonucleotide sequences of some length flanked by defined regions which allow PCR amplification of those randomized regions and, in the case of RNA SELEX, in vitro transcription of the randomized sequence. While Ellington and Szostak demonstrated that chemical synthesis is capable of generating ~10 unique sequences for oligonucleotide libraries in their 1990 paper on in vitro selection, they found that amplification of these synthesized oligonucleotides led to significant loss of pool diversity due to PCR bias and defects in synthesized fragments. The oligonucleotide pool is amplified and a sufficient amount of the initial library is added to the reaction so that there are numerous copies of each individual sequence to minimize the loss of potential binding sequences due to stochastic events. Before the library is introduced to target for incubation and selective retention, the sequence library must be converted to single stranded oligonucleotides to achieve structural conformations with target binding properties.\n\nImmediately prior to target introduction, the single stranded oligonucleotide library is often heated and cooled slowly to renature oligonucleotides into thermodynamically stable secondary and tertiary structures. Once prepared, the randomized library is incubated with immobilized target to allow oligonucleotide-target binding. There are several considerations for this target incubation step, including the target immobilization method and strategies for subsequent unbound oligonucleotide separation, incubation time and temperature, incubation buffer conditions, and target versus oligonucleotide concentrations. Examples of target immobilization methods include affinity chromatography columns, nitrocellulose binding assay filters, and paramagnetic beads. Recently, SELEX reactions have been developed where the target is whole cells, which are expanded near complete confluence and incubated with the oligonucleotide library on culture plates. Incubation buffer conditions are altered based on the intended target and desired function of the selected aptamer. For example, in the case of negatively charged small molecules and proteins, high salt buffers are used for charge screening to allow nucleotides to approach the target and increase the chance of a specific binding event. Alternatively, if the desired aptamer function is in vivo protein or whole cell binding for potential therapeutic or diagnostic application, incubation buffer conditions similar to in vivo plasma salt concentrations and homeostatic temperatures are more likely to generate aptamers that can bind in vivo. Another consideration in incubation buffer conditions is non-specific competitors. If there is a high likelihood of non-specific oligonucleotide retention in the reaction conditions, non specific competitors, which are small molecules or polymers other than the SELEX library that have similar physical properties to the library oligonucleotides, can be used to occupy these non-specific binding sites. Varying the relative concentration of target and oligonucleotides can also affect properties of the selected aptamers. If a good binding affinity for the selected aptamer is not a concern, then an excess of target can be used to increase the probability that at least some sequences will bind during incubation and be retained. However, this provides no selective pressure for high binding affinity, which requires the oligonucleotide library to be in excess so that there is competition between unique sequences for available specific binding sites.\n\nOnce the oligonucleotide library has been incubated with target for sufficient time, unbound oligonucleotides are washed away from immobilized target, often using the incubation buffer so that specifically bound oligonucleotides are retained. With unbound sequences washed away, the specifically bound sequences are then eluted by creating denaturing conditions that promote oligonucleotide unfolding or loss of binding conformation including flowing in deionized water, using denaturing solutions containing urea and EDTA, or by applying high heat and physical force. Upon elution of bound sequences, the retained oligonucleotides are reverse-transcribed to DNA in the case of RNA or modified base selections, or simply collected for amplification in the case of DNA SELEX. These DNA templates from eluted sequences are then amplified via PCR and converted to single stranded DNA, RNA, or modified base oligonucleotides, which are used as the initial input for the next round of selection.\n\nOne of the most critical steps in the SELEX procedure is obtaining single stranded DNA (ssDNA) after the PCR amplification step. This will serve as input for the next cycle so it is of vital importance that all the DNA is single stranded and as little as possible is lost. Because of the relative simplicity, one of the most used methods is using biotinylated reverse primers in the amplification step, after which the complementary strands can be bound to a resin followed by elution of the other strand with lye. Another method is asymmetric PCR, where the amplification step is performed with an excess of forward primer and very little reverse primer, which leads to the production of more of the desired strand. A drawback of this method is that the product should be purified from double stranded DNA (dsDNA) and other left-over material from the PCR reaction. Enzymatic degradation of the unwanted strand can be performed by tagging this strand using a phosphate-probed primer, as it is recognized by enzymes such as Lambda exonuclease. These enzymes then selectively degrade the phosphate tagged strand leaving the complementary strand intact. All of these methods recover approximately 50 to 70% of the DNA. For a detailed comparison refer to the article by Svobodová et al. where these, and other, methods are experimentally compared. In classical SELEX, the process of randomized single stranded library generation, target incubation, and binding sequence elution and amplification described above are repeated until the vast majority of the retained pool consists of target binding sequences, though there are modifications and additions to the procedure that are often used, which are discussed below.\n\nIn order to increase the specificity of aptamers selected by a given SELEX procedure, a negative selection, or counter selection, step can be added prior to or immediately following target incubation. To eliminate sequences with affinity for target immobilization matrix components from the pool, negative selection can be used where the library is incubated with target immobilization matrix components and unbound sequences are retained. Negative selection can also be used to eliminate sequences that bind target-like molecules or cells by incubating the oligonucleotide library with small molecule target analogs, undesired cell types, or non-target proteins and retaining the unbound sequences.\n\nTo track the progress of a SELEX reaction, the number of target bound molecules, which is equivalent to the number of oligonucleotides eluted, can be compared to the estimated total input of oligonucleotides following elution at each round. The number of eluted oligonucleotides can be estimated through elution concentration estimations via 260 nm wavelength absorbance or fluorescent labeling of oligonucleotides. As the SELEX reaction approaches completion, the fraction of the oligonucleotide library that binds target approaches 100%, such that the number of eluted molecules approaches the total oligonucleotide input estimate, but may converge at a lower number.\n\nSome SELEX reactions can generate probes that are dependent on primer binding regions for secondary structure formation. There are aptamer applications for which a short sequence, and thus primer truncation, is desirable. An advancement on the original method allows an RNA library to omit the constant primer regions, which can be difficult to remove after the selection process because they stabilize secondary structures that are unstable when formed by the random region alone.\n\nRecently, SELEX has expanded to include the use of chemically modified nucleotides. These chemically modified oligonucleotides offer many potential advantages for selected aptamers including greater stability and nuclease resistance, enhanced binding for select targets, expanded physical properties - like increased hydrophobicity, and more diverse structural conformations.\n\nThe genetic alphabet, and thus possible aptamers, is also expanded using unnatural base pairs the use of these unnatural base pairs was applied to SELEX and high affinity DNA aptamers were generated.\n\nThe technique has been used to evolve aptamers of extremely high binding affinity to a variety of target ligands, including small molecules such as ATP and adenosine and proteins such as prions and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Moreover, SELEX has been used to select high-affinity aptamers for complex targets such as tumor cells. Clinical uses of the technique are suggested by aptamers that bind tumor markers, GFP-related fluorophores, and a VEGF-binding aptamer trade-named Macugen has been approved by the FDA for treatment of macular degeneration. Additionally, SELEX has been utilized to obtain highly specific catalytic DNA or DNAzymes. Several metal-specific DNAzymes have been reported including the GR-5 DNAzyme (lead-specific), the CA1-3 DNAzymes (copper-specific), the 39E DNAzyme (uranyl-specific) and the NaA43 DNAzyme (sodium-specific).\n\nThese developed aptamers have seen diverse application in therapies for macular degeneration and various research applications including biosensors, fluorescent labeling of proteins and cells, and selective enzyme inhibition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30333772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30333772", "title": "Thomas Atwood (judge)", "text": "Thomas Atwood (judge)\n\nThomas Atwood (died 1793) was chief justice of the island of Dominica, and afterwards of the Bahamas. Atwood died in the King's Bench prison \"at an advanced age, broken down with misfortunes, on 27 May 1793.\"\n\nThe extinct Dominican green-and-yellow macaw is named \"Ara atwoodi\" in honour of his description of it in his 1791 \"The History of the Island of Dominica\". Atwood's description of Dominica during the American Revolution was directly incorporated by Bryan Edwards into his 1793 \"The History, Civil and Commercial, of the British Colonies in the West Indies\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6878687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6878687", "title": "Tibetan sovereignty debate", "text": "Tibetan sovereignty debate\n\nThe Tibetan sovereignty debate refers to two political debates. The first is whether the various territories within the People's Republic of China (PRC) that are claimed as political Tibet should separate and become a new sovereign state. Many of the points in the debate rest on a second debate, about whether Tibet was independent or subordinate to China in certain parts of its recent history.\n\nIt is generally agreed that China and Tibet were independent prior to the Yuan dynasty (1271–1368), and that Tibet has been ruled by the People's Republic of China (PRC) since 1959. The nature of Tibet's relationship with China in the intervening period is a matter of debate. The PRC claims that Tibet has been a part of China since the Yuan dynasty. The Republic of China (ROC) claimed that \"Tibet was placed under the sovereignty of China\" when the Qing dynasty (1644–1912) ended the brief Nepalese rule (1788-1792) from parts of Tibet in c. 1793. The Tibetan Government in Exile claims that Tibet was an independent state until the PRC invaded Tibet in 1949/50. Some Western scholars claim that Tibet and China were ruled by the Mongols during the Yuan dynasty, that Tibet was independent during the Chinese Ming dynasty (1368–1644). and that Tibet was ruled by China or at the very least subordinate to the Qing during much of the Qing dynasty. Some Western scholars also claim that Tibet was independent from c. 1912 to 1950, although it had extremely limited international recognition.\n\nThe government of the People's Republic of China contends that it has had control over Tibet since the Yuan dynasty (1271–1368).\n\nThe government of the Republic of China, which ruled mainland China from 1912 until 1949 and now controls Taiwan, had a cabinet-level Mongolian and Tibetan Affairs Commission in charge of the administration of Tibet and Mongolia regions from 1912. The commission retained its cabinet level status after 1949, but no longer executes that function. On 10May 1943, Chiang Kai-shek asserted that \"Tibet is part of Chinese territory... No foreign nation is allowed to interfere in our domestic affairs\". He again declared in 1946 that the Tibetans were Chinese nationals. The Republic of China (on Taiwan) still claims sovereignty over Tibet and Mongolia and maintains the Mongolian and Tibetan Affairs Commission.\n\nIn the late 19th century, China adopted the Western model of nation-state diplomacy. As the government of Tibet, China concluded several treaties (1876, 1886, 1890, 1893) with British India touching on the status, boundaries and access to Tibet. Chinese government sources consider this a sign of sovereignty rather than suzerainty. However, by the 20th century British India found the treaties to be ineffective due to China's weakened control over the Tibetan local government. The British invaded Tibet in 1904 and forced the signing of a separate treaty, directly with the Tibetan government in Lhasa. In 1906, an Anglo-Chinese Convention was signed at Peking between Great Britain and China. It incorporated the 1904 Lhasa Convention (with modification), which was attached as Annex. A treaty between Britain and Russia (1907) followed. Article II of this treaty stated that \"In conformity with the admitted principle of the suzerainty of China over Tibet, Great Britain and Russia engage not to enter into negotiations with Tibet except through the intermediary of the Chinese Government.\" China sent troops into Tibet in 1908. The result of the policy of both Great Britain and Russia has been the virtual annexation of Tibet by China. China controlled Tibet up to 1912. Thereafter, Tibet entered the period described commonly as \"de facto\" independence, though it was only recognized by independent Mongolia as enjoying \"de jure\" independence.\n\nIn the 2000s the position of the Republic of China with regard to Tibet appeared to become more nuanced as was stated in the following opening speech to the International Symposium on Human Rights in Tibet on 8September 2007 through the pro-Taiwan independence then ROC President Chen Shui-bian who stated that his offices no longer treated exiled Tibetans as Chinese mainlanders.\n\nThe position of the People's Republic of China (PRC), which has ruled mainland China since 1949, as well as the official position of the Republic of China (ROC), which ruled mainland China before 1949 and currently controls Taiwan, is that Tibet has been an indivisible part of China \"de jure\" since the Yuan dynasty of Mongol-ruled China in the 13th century, comparable to other states such as the Kingdom of Dali and the Tangut Empire that were also incorporated into China at the time.\n\nThe PRC contends that, according to international law and the Succession of states theory, all subsequent Chinese governments have succeeded the Yuan Dynasty in exercising de jure sovereignty over Tibet, with the PRC having succeeded the ROC as the legitimate government of all China.\n\nThe ROC government had no effective control over Tibet from 1912 to 1951; however, in the opinion of the Chinese government, this condition does not represent Tibet's independence as many other parts of China also enjoyed \"de facto\" independence when the Chinese nation was torn by warlordism, Japanese invasion, and civil war. Goldstein explains what is meant by \"de facto\" independence in the following statement:\n\nWhile at times the Tibetans were fiercely independent-minded at other times Tibet indicated its willingness to accept subordinate status as \"part of China\" provided that Tibetan internal systems were left untouched and China relinquished control over a number of important ethnic Tibetan groups in Kham and Amdo. The PRC insists that during this period the ROC government continued to maintain sovereignty over Tibet. The Provisional Constitution of the Republic of China (1912) stipulated that Tibet was a province of the Republic of China. Provisions concerning Tibet in the Constitution of the Republic of China promulgated later all stress the inseparability of Tibet from Chinese territory, and the Central Government of China exercise of sovereignty in Tibet. In 1927, the Commission in Charge of Mongolian and Tibetan Affairs of the Chinese Government contained members of great influence in the Mongolian and Tibetan areas, such as the 13th Dalai Lama, the 9th Panchen Lama and other Tibetan government representatives. In 1934, on his condolence mission for the demise of the Dalai Lama, the Chinese General Huang Musong posted notices in Chinese and Tibetan throughout Lhasa that alluded to Tibet as an integral part of China while expressing the utmost reverence for the Dalai Lama and the Buddhist religion.\n\nThe 9th Panchen Lama traditionally ruled over one-third of Tibet. On 1February 1925, the Panchen Lama attended the preparatory session of the \"National Reconstruction Meeting\" (\"Shanhou huiyi\") intended to identify ways and means of unifying the Chinese nation, and gave a speech about achieving the unification of five nationalities, including Tibetans, Mongolians and Han Chinese. In 1933, he called upon the Mongols to embrace national unity and to obey the Chinese Government to resist Japanese invasion. In February 1935 the Chinese government appointed Panchen Lama \"Special Cultural Commissioner for the Western Regions\" and assigned him 500 Chinese troops. He spent much of his time teaching and preaching Buddhist doctrines - including the principles of unity and pacification for the border regions - extensively in inland China, outside of Tibet, from 1924 until 1December 1937, when he died on his way back to Tibet under the protection of Chinese troops.\n\nDuring the Sino-Tibetan War, the warlords Ma Bufang and Liu Wenhui jointly attacked and defeated invading Tibetan forces.\n\nThe Kuomintang government sought to portray itself as necessary to validate the choice of the Dalai Lama and Panchen Lama. When the current (14th) Dalai Lama was installed in Lhasa, it was with an armed escort of Chinese troops and an attending Chinese minister The Muslim Kuomintang General Bai Chongxi said that the Tibetans suffered under British repression, and he called upon the Republic of China to assist them in expelling the British. According to Yu Shiyu, during China's resistance war against Japanese invasion, Chiang Kai-shek ordered the Chinese Muslim General Ma Bufang, Governor of Qinghai (1937–1949), to repair the Yushu airport in Qinghai Province to deter Tibetan independence. In May 1943, Chiang warned that Tibet must accept and follow the instructions and orders of the Central Government, that they must agree and help to build the Chinese-India [war-supply] road, and that they must maintain direct communications with the Office of the Mongolian and Tibetan Affairs Commission (MTAC) in Lhasa and not through the newly established \"Foreign Office\" of Tibet. He sternly warned that he would \"send an air force to bomb Tibet immediately\" should Tibet be found to be collaborating with Japan. Official Communications between Lhasa and Chiang Kai-shek's government was through MTAC, not the \"Foreign Office\", until July 1949 just before the Communists' final victory in the civil war. The presence of MTAC in Lhasa was viewed by both Nationalist and Communist governments as an assertion of Chinese sovereignty over Tibet. Throughout the Kuomintang years, no country gave Tibet diplomatic recognition.\n\nIn 1950 after the People's Liberation Army entered Tibet, Indian leader Jawaharlal Nehru stated that his country would continue the British policy with regards to Tibet in considering it to be outwardly part of China but internally autonomous.\n\nThe PRC considers all pro-independence movements aimed at ending Chinese sovereignty in Tibet, including British attempts to establish control in the late 19th century and early 20th century, the CIA's backing of Tibetan insurgents during the 1950s and 1960s, and the Government of Tibet in Exile till the turn of the 21st century, as one long campaign abetted by Western imperialism aimed at destroying Chinese territorial integrity and sovereignty, or destabilizing China.\n\nA proclamation issued by 13th Dalai Lama in 1913 states, \"During the time of Genghis Khan and Altan Khan of the Mongols, the Ming dynasty of the Chinese, and the Qing Dynasty of the Manchus, Tibet and China cooperated on the basis of benefactor and priest relationship. [...] the existing relationship between Tibet and China had been that of patron and priest and had not been based on the subordination of one to the other.\" He condemned that the \"Chinese authorities in Szechuan and Yunnan endeavored to colonize our territory Chinese\" in 1910–12 and stated that \"We are a small, religious, and independent nation\".\n\nThe Tibetan government issued passports to the first-ever Everest expedition in 1921. The Tibetan government also issued passports to subsequent British Everest expedition in 1924 and 1936. The 1938–39 German expedition to Tibet also received Tibetan passports.\n\nIn 2003, an old Tibetan passport was rediscovered in Nepal. Issued by the Kashag to Tibet's finance minister Tsepon Shakabpa for foreign travel, the passport was a single piece of pink paper, complete with photograph. It has a message in hand-written Tibetan and typed English, similar to the message by the nominal issuing officers of today's passports, stating that \"\"\"the bearer of this letter – Tsepon Shakabpa, Chief of the Finance Department of the Government of Tibet, is hereby sent to China, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and other countries to explore and review trade possibilities between these countries and Tibet. We shall, therefore, be grateful if all the Governments concerned on his route would kindly give due recognition as such, grant necessary passport, visa, etc. without any hindrance and render assistance in all possible ways to him.\" The text and the photograph is sealed by a square stamp belonging to the Kashag, and is dated \"26th day of the 8th month of Fire-Pig year (Tibetan)\"\" (14 October 1947 in the gregorian calendar).\n\nThe passport has received visas and entry stamps from several countries and territories, including India, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Switzerland, Pakistan, Iraq and Hong Kong, but not China. Some visa do reflect an official status, with mentions such as \"Diplomatic courtesy, Service visa, Official gratis, Diplomatic visa, For government official\".\n\nHowever, acceptance of a passport does not indicate recognition of independence, as for example the Republic of China passport is accepted by almost all the countries of the world, even though few of them recognize the ROC as independent.\n\nIn 1959, the 14th Dalai Lama fled Tibet and established a government in exile at Dharamsala in northern India. This group claims sovereignty over various ethnically or historically Tibetan areas now governed by China. Aside from the Tibet Autonomous Region, an area that was administered directly by the Dalai Lama's government until 1951, the group also claims Amdo (Qinghai) and eastern Kham (western Sichuan). About 45 percent of ethnic Tibetans under Chinese rule live in the Tibet Autonomous Region, according to the 2000 census. Prior to 1949, much of Amdo and eastern Kham were governed by local rulers and even warlords.\n\nThe view of the current Dalai Lama in 1989 was as follows:\n\nThe International Commission of Jurists concluded that from 1913 to 1950 Tibet demonstrated the conditions of statehood as generally accepted under international law. In the opinion of the commission, the government of Tibet conducted its own domestic and foreign affairs free from any outside authority, and countries with whom Tibet had foreign relations are shown by official documents to have treated Tibet in practice as an independent State.\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly passed resolutions urging respect for the rights of Tibetans in 1959, 1961 and 1965. The 1961 resolution calls for that \"principle of self-determination of peoples and nations\" applies to the Tibetan people.\n\nThe Tibetan Government in Exile views current PRC rule in Tibet, including neighboring provinces outside Tibet Autonomous Region, as colonial and illegitimate, motivated solely by the natural resources and strategic value of Tibet, and in gross violation of both Tibet's historical status as an independent country and the right of Tibetan people to self-determination. It also points to PRC's autocratic policies, divide-and-rule policies, and what it contends are assimilationist policies, and regard those as an example of ongoing imperialism aimed at destroying Tibet's distinct ethnic makeup, culture, and identity, thereby cementing it as an indivisible part of China. That said, the Dalai Lama stated in 2008 that he wishes only for Tibetan autonomy, and not separation from China, under certain conditions, like freedom of speech and expression, genuine self-rule, and control over ethnic makeup and migration in all areas claimed as historical Tibet.\n\nDuring the rule of the Chinese Tang dynasty (618–907), Tibet and China were frequently at war with parts of Tibet temporarily captured by the Chinese to become part of their territory. Around 650, the Chinese captured Lhasa. In 763, Tibet very briefly took the Chinese capital of Chang'an during the Tang civil war.\n\nMost scholars outside of China say that during the Ming dynasty (1368–1644), Tibet was independent without even nominal Ming suzerainty. In contrast, since the mid-18th century it is agreed that China had control over Tibet reaching its maximum in the end of the 18th century. Luciano Petech, a scholar of Himalayan history, indicated that Tibet was a Qing protectorate.\n\nThe patron and priest relationship held between the Qing court and the Tibetan lamas has been subjected to varying interpretation. The 13th Dalai Lama, for example, knelt, but did not kowtow, before the Empress Dowager Cixi and the young Emperor while he delivered his petition in Beijing. Chinese sources emphasize the submission of kneeling; Tibetan sources emphasize the lack of the kowtow. Titles and commands given to Tibetans by the Chinese, likewise, are variously interpreted. The Qing authorities gave the 13th Dalai Lama the title of \"Loyally Submissive Vice-Regent\", and ordered to follow Qing's commands and communicate with the Emperor only through the Manchu Amban in Lhasa; but opinions vary as to whether these titles and commands reflected actual political power, or symbolic gestures ignored by Tibetans. Some authors claim that kneeling before the Emperor followed the 17th-century precedent in the case of the 5th Dalai Lama. Other historians indicate that the emperor treated the Dalai Lama as an equal Kneeling was a compromise allowed by the Qing court for foreign representatives, Western and Tibetan alike, as both parties refused to perform the kowtow.\n\nTibetologist Melvyn C. Goldstein writes that Britain and Russia formally acknowledged Chinese authority over Tibet in treaties of 1906 and 1907; and that the 1904 British invasion of Tibet stirred China into becoming more directly involved in Tibetan affairs and working to integrate Tibet with \"the rest of China.\"\n\nThe status of Tibet after the 1911 Xinhai Revolution ended the Qing dynasty is also a matter of debate. After the revolution, the Chinese Republic of five races, including Tibetans, was proclaimed. Western powers recognized the Chinese Republic, however the 13th Dalai Lama proclaimed Tibet's independence. Some authors indicate that personal allegiance of the Dalai Lama to the Manchu Emperor came to an end and no new type of allegiance of Tibet to China was established, or that Tibet had relationships with the empire and not with the new nation-state of China. Barnett observes that there is no document before 1950 in which Tibet explicitly recognizes Chinese sovereignty, and considers Tibet's subordination to China during the periods when China had most authority comparable to that of a colony. Tibetologist Elliot Sperling noted that the Tibetan term for China, Rgya-nag, did not mean anything more than a country bordering Tibet from the east, and did not include Tibet. Other Tibetologists write that no country publicly accepts Tibet as an independent state, although there are several instances of government officials appealing to their superiors to do so. Treaties signed by Britain and Russia in the early years of the 20th century, and others signed by Nepal and India in the 1950s, recognized Tibet's political subordination to China. The United States presented a similar viewpoint in 1943. Goldstein also says that a 1943 British official letter \"reconfirmed that Britain considered Tibet as part of China.\" Nevertheless, Goldstein views Tibet as occupied. Stating that The Seventeen-Point Agreement was intended to facilitate the military occupation of Tibet.\n\nThomas Heberer, professor of political science and East Asian studies at the University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany, wrote: \"No country in the world has ever recognized the independence of Tibet or declared that Tibet is an 'occupied country'. For all countries in the world, Tibet is Chinese territory.\" However, newly independent Mongolia and Tibet recognized each other by a treaty signed just after the fall of the Qing dynasty, and under international law, even non-recognition by other states does not negate even a unilateral declaration of independence. During the early 1990s governmental bodies, including the European Union and United States Congress, and other international organisations declared that Tibetans lacked the enjoyment of self-determination to which they are entitled and that it is an occupied territory.\n\nUnder the terms of the Simla Accord (1914) the British Government's position was that China held suzerainty over Tibet but not full sovereignty. By 2008 it was the only state still to hold this view. David Miliband, the British Foreign Secretary, described the old position as an anachronism originating in the geopolitics of the early 20th century. Britain revised this view on 29 October 2008, when it recognised Chinese sovereignty over Tibet by issuing a statement on its website.\"The Economist\" reported at that time that although the British Foreign Office's website did not use the word sovereignty, officials at the Foreign Office said \"it means that, as far as Britain is concerned, 'Tibet is part of China. Full stop.'\"\n\nIn 2008, European Union leader José Manuel Barroso stated that the EU recognized Tibet as integral part of China: On 1 April 2009, the French Government reaffirmed its position on the Tibet issue.\n\nIn 2014, U.S. President Barack Obama stated that \"We recognize Tibet as part of the People's Republic of China. We are not in favor of independence.\"\n\nThis lack of legal recognition makes it difficult for international legal experts sympathetic to the Tibetan Government in Exile to argue that Tibet formally established its independence. On the other hand, in 1959 and 1960 the International Commission of Jurists concluded that Tibet had been independent between 1913 and 1950.\n\nWhile Canadian foreign policy and Canada's policy toward Tibet is strictly limited to supporting human rights, Canada has nonetheless recognized that the Tibetan people's human rights expressly include their right to self-determination.\n\nGroups such as the Madrid-based Committee to Support Tibet claim the death toll in Tibet since the 1950 People's Liberation Army invasion of Tibet to be 1,200,000 and have filed official charges of genocide against prominent Chinese leaders and officials. This figure has been disputed by Patrick French, a supporter of the Tibetan cause who was able to view the data and calculations, but rather, concludes a no less devastating death toll of half a million people as a direct result of Chinese policies.\n\nAccording to an ICJ (International Commission of Jurists) report released in 1960, there was no \"sufficient proof of the destruction of Tibetans as a race, nation or ethnic group as such by methods that can be regarded as genocide in international law\" found in Tibet.\n\nThe PRC argues that the Tibetan authority under successive Dalai Lamas was also itself a human rights violator. The old society, the Chinese government and its supporters say, was a serfdom and, according to reports of an early English explorer, had remnants of \"a very mild form of slavery\" prior to the 13th Dalai Lama's reforms of 1913.\n\nTibetologist Robert Barnett wrote about clerical resistance to the introduction of anything Anti-Buddhist that might disturb the prevailing power structure. Clergy obstructed modernization attempts by the 13th Dalai Lama.\n\nOld Tibet had a long history of persecuting non-Buddhist Christians. In the years 1630 and 1742, Tibetan Christian communities were suppressed by the lamas of the Gelugpa Sect, whose chief lama was the Dalai Lama. Jesuit priests were made prisoners in 1630 or attacked before they reached Tsaparang. Between 1850 and 1880, eleven fathers of the Paris Foreign Mission Society were murdered in Tibet, or killed or injured during their journeys to other missionary outposts in the Sino-Tibetan borderlands. In 1881 Father Brieux was reported to have been murdered on his way to Lhasa. Qing officials later discovered that the murder cases were in fact covertly supported and even orchestrated by local lamaseries and their patrons—the native chieftains. In 1904, Qing official Feng Quan sought to curtail the influence of the Gelugpa Sect and ordered the protection of Western missionaries and their churches. Indignation over Feng Quan and the Christian presence escalated to a climax in March 1905, when thousands of the Batang lamas revolted, killing Feng, his entourage, local Manchu and Han Chinese officials, and the local French Catholic priests. The revolt soon spread to other cities in eastern Tibet, such as Chamdo, Litang and Nyarong, and at one point almost spilled over into neighboring Sichuan Province. The missionary stations and churches in these areas were burned and destroyed by the angry Gelugpa monks and local chieftains. Dozens of local Westerners, including at least four priests, were killed or fatally wounded. The scale of the rebellion was so tremendous that only when panicked Qing authorities hurriedly sent 2,000 troops from Sichuan to pacify the mobs did the revolt gradually come to an end. The lamasery authorities and local native chieftains' hostility towards the Western missionaries in Tibet lingered through the last throes of the Manchu dynasty and into the Republican period.\n\nThree UN resolutions of 1959, 1961, and 1965 condemned human rights violation in Tibet. These resolutions were passed at a time when the PRC was not permitted to become a member and of course was not allowed to present its singular version of events in the region (however, the Republic of China on Taiwan, which the PRC also tries to claim sovereignty over, was a member of the UN at the time, and it equally claimed sovereignty over Tibet and opposed Tibetan self-determination). Professor and sinologist A. Tom Grunfeld called the resolutions impractical and justified the PRC in ignoring them.\n\nGrunfeld questioned Human Rights Watch reports on human rights abuses in Tibet, saying they distorted the big picture.\n\nAccording to Barnett, since Western powers and especially the United States used the Tibet issue in the 1950s and 1960s for cold war political purposes, the PRC is now able to get support from developing countries in defeating the last nine attempts at the United Nations to criticize China. Barnett writes that the position of the Chinese in Tibet would be more accurately characterized as a colonial occupation, and that such an approach might cause developing nations to be more supportive of the Tibetan cause.\n\nThe Chinese government ignores the issue of its alleged violations of Tibetan human rights, and prefers to argue that the invasion was about territorial integrity and unity of the State. Furthermore, Tibetan activists inside Tibet have until recently focused on independence, not human rights.\n\nLeaders of the Tibetan Youth Congress which claims 30,000 over members are alleged by China to advocate violence. In 1998, Barnett wrote that India's military includes 10,000 Tibetans, causing China some unease; and that \"at least seven bombs exploded in Tibet between 1995 and 1997, one of them laid by a monk, and a significant number of individual Tibetans are known to be actively seeking the taking up of arms; hundreds of Chinese soldiers and police have been beaten during demonstrations in Tibet, and at least one killed in cold blood, probably several more.\"\n\nChinadaily.com reported on the discovery of weapons subsequent to the protests by peaceful Buddhists monks on March 14, 2008: \"Police in Lhasa seized more than 100 guns, tens of thousands of bullets, several thousand kilograms of explosives and tens of thousands of detonators, acting on reports from lamas and ordinary people.\"\n\nAnd on 23 March 2008, there was a bombing incident in the Qambo prefecture.\n\nWhile the earliest ROC constitutional documents already claim Tibet as part of China, Chinese political leaders also acknowledged the principle of self-determination. For example, at a party conference in 1924, Kuomintang leader Sun Yat-sen issued a statement calling for the right of self-determination of all Chinese ethnic groups: \"The Kuomintang can state with solemnity that it recognizes the right of self-determination of all national minorities in China and it will organize a free and united Chinese republic.\" In 1931, the CCP issued a constitution for the short-lived Chinese Soviet Republic which states that Tibetans and other ethnic minorities, \"may either join the Union of Chinese Soviets or secede from it.\" It is notable that China was in a state of civil war at the time and that the \"Chinese Soviets\" only represents a faction. Saying that Tibet may secede from the \"Chinese Soviets\" does not mean that it can secede from China. The quote above is merely a statement of Tibetans' freedom to choose their political orientation. The possibility of complete secession was denied by Communist leader Mao Zedong in 1938: \"They must have the right to self-determination and at the same time they should continue to unite with the Chinese people to form one nation\". This policy was codified in PRC's first constitution which, in Article 3, reaffirmed China as a \"\"single\" multi-national state,\" while the \"national \"autonomous areas\" are inalienable parts\". The Chinese government insists that the United Nations documents, which codifies the principle of self-determination, provides that the principle shall not be abused in disrupting territorial integrity: \"Any attempt aimed at the partial or total disruption of the national unity and the territorial integrity of a country is incompatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations...\"\n\nThe PRC also points to what it claims are the autocratic, oppressive and theocratic policies of the government of Tibet before 1959, its toleration of existence of serfdom and slaves, its so-called \"renunciation\" of (Arunachal Pradesh) and its association with India and other foreign countries, and as such claims the Government of Tibet in Exile has no legitimacy to govern Tibet and no credibility or justification in criticizing PRC's policies.\n\nChina claims that the People's Liberation Army's march into Tibet in 1951 was \"not without the support of a handful of Tibetan people\", including the 10th Panchen Lama. Ian Buruma writes:\n\nInstances have been documented when the PRC government gained support from a portion of the Tibetan population, including monastic leaders, monks, nobility and ordinary Tibetans prior to the crackdown in the 1959 uprising. The PRC government and some Tibetan leaders characterize PLA's operation as a peaceful liberation of Tibetans from a \"feudal serfdom system.\" ().\n\nWhen Tibet complained to the United Nations through El Salvador about Chinese invasion in November 1950—after China captured Chamdo (or Qamdo) when Tibet failed to respond by the deadline to China's demand for negotiation-- members debated about it but refused to admit the \"Tibet Question\" into the agenda of the U.N. General Assembly. Key stakeholder India told the General Assembly that \"the Peking Government had declared that it had not abandoned its intention to settle the difficulties by peaceful means\", and that \"the Indian Government \"was certain\" that the Tibet Question could still be settled by peaceful means\". The Russian delegate said that \"China's sovereignty over Tibet had been recognized for a long time by the United Kingdom, the United States, and the U.S.S.R.\" The United Nations postponed this matter on the pretext Tibet was officially an \"autonomous nationality region belonging to territorial China\", and because the outlook of peaceful settlement seemed good.\n\nSubsequently, \"The Agreement Between the Central Government and the Local Government of Tibet on Method for the Peaceful Liberation of Tibet\", also known as Seventeen-Point Agreement, was signed between delegates of China and Tibet on 23 May 1951. The Dalai Lama,despite the massive Chinese military presence, had ample time and opportunity to repudiate and denounce the Seventeen-Point Agreement. He was encouraged and instigated to do so with promise of public but not military support by the US, which by now had become hostile to Communist-ruled China.\n\nOn May 29, the 10th Panchen Erdeni (i.e. 10th Panchen Lama) and the Panchen Kampus Assembly made a formal statement, expressing their heartfelt support for the agreement. The statement indicated their resolution to guarantee the correct implementation of the agreement and to realize solidarity between the different ethnic groups of China and ethnic solidarity among the Tibetans; and on May 30, the 10th Panchen Erdeni telegrammed the 14th Dalai Lama, expressing his hope for unity and his vow to support the 14th Dalai Lama and the government of Tibet with the implementation of the agreement under the guidance of the Central Government and Chairman Mao.\n\nThe Agreement was finally accepted by Tibet's National Assembly, which then advised the Dalai Lama to accept it. Finally, on 24 October 1951, the Dalai Lama dispatched a telegram to Mao Zedong:\n\nOn 28 October 1951, the Panchen Rinpoche [i.e. Panchen Lama] made a similar public statement accepting the agreement. He urged the \"people of Shigatse to give active support\" to carrying out the agreement.\n\nTsering Shakya writes about the general acceptance of the Tibetans toward the Seventeen-Point Agreement, and its legal significance:\n\nOn March 28, 1959, premier Zhou Enlai signed the order of the PRC State Council on the uprising in Tibet, falsely accusing the Tibetan government of disrupting the Agreement. (see, for review). The creation of the TAR finally buried the Agreement that was discarded back in 1959.\n\nOn April 18, 1959, the Dalai Lama published a statement in Tezpur, India, that gave his reasons for escaping to India. He pointed out that the 17 Point Agreement was signed under compulsion; later the Chinese side permanently violated it. According to Michael Van Walt Van Praag, \"treaties and similar agreements concluded under the use or threat of force are invalid under international law ab initio\". Therefore, this Agreement is not considered legal by those who consider Tibet to have been an independent state before its signing; but it is considered legal by those who oppose Tibet's independence. In either case the PRC did not abide by the agreement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "254061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254061", "title": "Timbuktu", "text": "Timbuktu\n\nTimbuktu (), also spelled Tinbuktu, Timbuctoo and Timbuktoo (; ; Koyra Chiini: \"Tumbutu\"), is an ancient city in Mali, situated north of the Niger River. The town is the capital of the Timbuktu Region, one of the eight administrative regions of Mali. It had a population of 54,453 in the 2009 census.\n\nStarting out as a seasonal settlement, Timbuktu became a permanent settlement early in the 12th century. After a shift in trading routes, Timbuktu flourished from the trade in salt, gold, ivory and slaves. It became part of the Mali Empire early in the 14th century. In the first half of the 15th century, the Tuareg tribes took control of the city for a short period until the expanding Songhai Empire absorbed the city in 1468. A Moroccan army defeated the Songhai in 1591 and made Timbuktu, rather than Gao, their capital. The invaders established a new ruling class, the Arma, who after 1612 became virtually independent of Morocco. However, the golden age of the city, during which it was a major learning and cultural centre of the Mali Empire, was over, and it entered a long period of decline. Different tribes governed until the French took over in 1893, a situation that lasted until it became part of the current Republic of Mali in 1960. Presently, Timbuktu is impoverished and suffers from desertification.\n\nIn its Golden Age, the town's numerous Islamic scholars and extensive trading network made possible an important book trade: together with the campuses of the Sankore Madrasah, an Islamic university, this established Timbuktu as a scholarly centre in Africa. Several notable historic writers, such as Shabeni and Leo Africanus, have described Timbuktu. These stories fuelled speculation in Europe, where the city's reputation shifted from being extremely rich to being mysterious.\n\nOver the centuries, the spelling of Timbuktu has varied a great deal: from \"Tenbuch\" on the Catalan Atlas (1375), to traveller Antonio Malfante's \"Thambet\", used in a letter he wrote in 1447 and also adopted by Alvise Cadamosto in his \"Voyages of Cadamosto\", to Heinrich Barth's \"Timbúktu\" and \"Timbu'ktu\". French spelling often appears in international reference as \"Tombouctou\". As well as its spelling, Timbuktu's toponymy is still open to discussion. At least four possible origins of the name of Timbuktu have been described:\n\nThe validity of these theories depends on the identity of the original founders of the city: as recently as 2000, archaeological research has not found remains dating from the 11th/12th century within the limits of the modern city given the difficulty of excavating through metres of sand that have buried the remains over the past centuries. Without consensus, the etymology of Timbuktu remains unclear.\n\nLike other important Medieval West African towns such as Djenné (Jenné-Jeno), Gao, and Dia, Iron Age settlements have been discovered near Timbuktu that predate the traditional foundation date of the town. Although the accumulation of thick layers of sand has thwarted archaeological excavations in the town itself, some of the surrounding landscape is deflating and exposing pottery shards on the surface. A survey of the area by Susan and Roderick McIntosh in 1984 identified several Iron Age sites along the el-Ahmar, an ancient wadi system that passes a few kilometres to the east of the modern town.\n\nAn Iron Age tell complex located southeast of the Timbuktu near the Wadi el-Ahmar was excavated between 2008 and 2010 by archaeologists from Yale University and the Mission Culturelle de Tombouctou. The results suggest that the site was first occupied during the 5th century BC, thrived throughout the second half of the 1st millennium AD and eventually collapsed sometime during the late 10th or early 11th century AD.\n\nTimbuktu was a regional trade centre in medieval times, where caravans met to exchange salt from the Sahara Desert for gold, ivory, and slaves from the Sahel, which could be reached via the nearby Niger River. The population swelled from 10,000 in the 13th century to about 50,000 in the 16th century after the establishment of a major Islamic university, which attracted scholars from throughout the Muslim world. In the 1600s, a combination of a purge by a monarch who accused the scholars of \"disloyalty\" and a decline in trade caused by increased competition from newly available trans-Atlantic sailing routes caused the city to decline. The first European to reach Timbuktu, Alexander Gordon Laing, did not arrive until 1826, and it was not until the 1890s that Timbuktu was formally incorporated into the French colony of Mali. Today, the city is still inhabited; however, the city is not as geopolitically relevant as it once was.\n\nTimbuktu is located on the southern edge of the Sahara north of the main channel of the River Niger. The town is surrounded by sand dunes and the streets are covered in sand. The port of Kabara is to the south of the town and is connected to an arm of the river by a canal. The canal had become heavily silted but in 2007 it was dredged as part of a Libyan financed project.\n\nThe annual flood of the Niger River is a result of the heavy rainfall in the headwaters of the Niger and Bani rivers in Guinea and northern Ivory Coast. The rainfall in these areas peaks in August but the flood water takes time to pass down the river system and through the Inner Niger Delta. At Koulikoro, downstream from Bamako, the flood peaks in September, while in Timbuktu the flood lasts longer and usually reaches a maximum at the end of December.\n\nIn the past, the area flooded by the river was more extensive and in years with high rainfall, floodwater would reach the western outskirts of Timbuktu itself. A small navigable creek to the west of the town is shown on the maps published by Heinrich Barth in 1857 and Félix Dubois in 1896. Between 1917 and 1921, during the colonial period, the French used slave labour to dig a narrow canal linking Timbuktu with Kabara. Over the following decades this became silted and filled with sand, but in 2007 as part of the dredging project, the canal was re-excavated so that now when the River Niger floods, Timbuktu is again connected to Kabara. The Malian government has promised to address problems with the design of the canal as it currently lacks footbridges and the steep, unstable banks make access to the water difficult.\n\nKabara can only function as a port in December to January when the river is in full flood. When the water levels are lower, boats dock at Korioumé which is linked to Timbuktu by of paved road.\n\nTimbuktu features a hot desert climate according to the Köppen Climate Classification. The weather is hot and dry throughout much of the year. Average daily maximum temperatures in the hottest months of the year – April, May and June – exceed . Lowest temperatures occur during the Northern hemisphere winter – December, January and February. However, average maximum temperatures do not drop below . These winter months are characterized by a dry, dusty trade wind blowing from the Saharan Tibesti Region southward to the Gulf of Guinea: picking up dust particles on their way, these winds limit visibility in what has been dubbed the 'Harmattan Haze'. Additionally, when the dust settles in the city, sand builds up and desertification looms.\n\nThe wealth and very existence of Timbuktu depended on its position as the southern terminus of an important trans-Saharan trade route; nowadays, the only goods that are routinely transported across the desert are slabs of rock salt brought from the Taoudenni mining centre in the central Sahara north of Timbuktu. Until the second half of the 20th century most of the slabs were transported by large salt caravans or azalai, one leaving Timbuktu in early November and the other in late March.\n\nThe caravans of several thousand camels took three weeks each way, transporting food to the miners and returning with each camel loaded with four or five slabs of salt. The salt transport was largely controlled by the desert nomads of the Arabic-speaking Berabich (or Barabish) tribe. Although there are no roads, the slabs of salt are now usually transported from Taoudenni by truck. From Timbuktu the salt is transported by boat to other towns in Mali.\n\nBetween the 12th and 14th centuries, Timbuktu's population grew immensely due to an influx of Tuaregs, Fulanis, and Songhais seeking trade, security, or to study. By 1300, the population increased to 10,000 and kept increasing until it reached about 50,000 in the 1500s.\n\nThere is insufficient rainfall in the Timbuktu region for purely rain-fed agriculture and crops are therefore irrigated using water from the River Niger. The main agricultural crop is rice. African floating rice (\"Oryza glaberrima\") has traditionally been grown in regions near the river that are inundated during the annual flood. Seed is sown at the beginning of the rainy season (June–July) so that when the flood water arrives plants are already in height.\n\nThe plants grow up to in height as the water level rises. The rice is harvested by canoe in December. The procedure is very precarious and the yields are low but the method has the advantage that little capital investment is required. A successful crop depends critically on the amount and timing of the rain in the wet season and the height of the flood. To a limited extent the arrival of the flood water can be controlled by the construction of small mud dikes that become submerged as the water rises.\n\nAlthough floating rice is still cultivated in the Timbuktu Cercle, most of the rice is now grown in three relatively large irrigated areas that lie to the south of the town: Daye (392 ha), Koriomé (550 ha) and Hamadja (623 ha). Water is pumped from the river using ten large Archimedes' screws which were first installed in the 1990s. The irrigated areas are run as cooperatives with approximately 2,100 families cultivating small plots. Nearly all the rice produced is consumed by the families themselves. The yields are still relatively low and the farmers are being encouraged to change their agricultural practices.\n\nMost tourists visit Timbuktu between November and February when the air temperature is lower. In the 1980s, accommodation for the small number of tourists was provided by two small hotels: Hotel Bouctou and Hotel Azalaï. Over the following decades the tourist numbers increased so that by 2006 there were seven small hotels and guest houses. The town benefited by the revenue from the CFA 5000 tourist tax, by the sale of handicrafts and by the employment for the guides.\n\nStarting in 2008 the Al-Qaeda Organization in the Islamic Maghreb began kidnapping groups of tourists in the Sahel region. In January 2009, four tourists were kidnapped near the Mali–Niger border after attending a cultural festival at Anderamboukané. One of these tourists was subsequently murdered. As a result of this and various other incidents a number of states including France, Britain and the US, began advising their citizens to avoid travelling far from Bamako. The number of tourists visiting Timbuktu dropped precipitously from around 6000 in 2009 to only 492 in the first four months of 2011.\n\nBecause of the security concerns, the Malian government moved the 2010 Festival in the Desert from Essakane to the outskirts of Timbuktu. In November 2011, gunmen attacked tourists staying at a hotel in Timbuktu, killing one of them and kidnapping three others. This was the first terrorist incident in Timbuktu itself.\n\nOn 1 April 2012, one day after the capture of Gao, Timbuktu was captured from the Malian military by the Tuareg rebels of the MNLA and Ansar Dine. Five days later, the MNLA declared the region independent of Mali as the nation of Azawad. The declared political entity was not recognized by any regional nations or the international community and it collapsed three months later on 12 July.\n\nOn 28 January 2013, French and Malian government troops began retaking Timbuktu from the Islamist rebels. The force of 1,000 French troops with 200 Malian soldiers retook Timbuktu without a fight. The Islamist groups had already fled north a few days earlier, having set fire to the Ahmed Baba Institute, which housed many important manuscripts. The building housing the Ahmed Baba Institute was funded by South Africa, and held 30,000 manuscripts. BBC World Service radio news reported on 29 January 2013 that approximately 28,000 of the manuscripts in the Institute had been removed to safety from the premises before the attack by the Islamist groups, and that the whereabouts of about 2,000 manuscripts remained unknown. It was intended to be a resource for Islamic research.\n\nOn 30 March 2013, jihadist rebels infiltrated into Timbuktu nine days before a suicide bombing on a Malian army checkpoint at the international airport killing a soldier. Fighting lasted until 1 April, when French warplanes helped Malian ground forces chase the remaining rebels out of the city center.\n\nTales of Timbuktu's fabulous wealth helped prompt European exploration of the west coast of Africa. Among the most famous descriptions of Timbuktu are those of Leo Africanus and Shabeni.\n\nPerhaps most famous among the accounts written about Timbuktu is that by Leo Africanus. Born El Hasan ben Muhammed el- Wazzan-ez-Zayyati in Granada in 1485, his family was among the thousands of Muslims expelled by King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella after their reconquest of Spain in 1492. They settled in Morocco, where he studied in Fes and accompanied his uncle on diplomatic missions throughout North Africa. During these travels, he visited Timbuktu. As a young man he was captured by pirates and presented as an exceptionally learned slave to Pope Leo X, who freed him, baptized him under the name \"Johannis Leo de Medici\", and commissioned him to write, in Italian, a detailed survey of Africa. His accounts provided most of what Europeans knew about the continent for the next several centuries. Describing Timbuktu when the Songhai Empire was at its height, the English edition of his book includes the description:\nAccording to Leo Africanus, there were abundant supplies of locally produced corn, cattle, milk and butter, though there were neither gardens nor orchards surrounding the city. In another passage dedicated to describing the wealth of both the environment and the king, Africanus touches upon the rarity of one of Timbuktu's trade commodities: salt.\nThese descriptions and passages alike caught the attention of European explorers. Africanus, though, also described the more mundane aspects of the city, such as the \"cottages built of chalk, and covered with thatch\" – although these went largely unheeded.\n\nRoughly 250 years after Leo Africanus' visit to Timbuktu, the city had seen many rulers. The end of the 18th century saw the grip of the Moroccan rulers on the city wane, resulting in a period of unstable government by quickly changing tribes. During the rule of one of those tribes, the Hausa, a 14-year-old child named Shabeni (or Shabeeny) from Tetuan on the north coast of Morocco accompanied his father on a visit to Timbuktu.\n\nShabeni stayed in Timbuktu for three years before moving to a major city called Housa several days journey to the southeast. Two years later, he returned to Timbuktu to live there for another seven years – one of a population that was even centuries after its peak and excluding slaves, double the size of the 21st-century town.\n\nBy the time Shabeni was 27, he was an established merchant in his hometown of Tetuan. He made a two-year pilgrimage to Mecca and thus became a hajji, Asseed El Hage Abd Salam Shabeeny. Returning from a trading voyage to Hamburg, he was captured by a ship manned by Englishmen but sailing under a Russian flag, whose captain claimed that his Imperial mistress (Catherine the Great) was \"at war with all Muselmen\" (see Russo-Turkish War (1787–1792)). He and the ship he had been sailing in were brought to Ostend in Belgium in December 1789 but the British consul managed to get him and the ship released. He set off again in the same ship, but the captain, who claimed to be afraid of his ship being captured again, set him ashore in Dover. In England his story was recorded. Shabeeni gave an indication of the size of the city in the second half of the 18th century. In an earlier passage, he described an environment that was characterized by forest, as opposed to nowadays' arid surroundings.\n\nThe most well-known cultural event is the Festival au Désert. When the Tuareg rebellion ended in 1996 under the Konaré administration, 3,000 weapons were burned in a ceremony dubbed the Flame of Peace on 29 March 2007 – to commemorate the ceremony, a monument was built. The Festival au Désert, to celebrate the peace treaty, is held near the city in January.\n\nDuring its twelfth session, in December 1988, the World Heritage Committee (WHC) selected parts of Timbuktu's historic centre for inscription on its World Heritage list. The selection was based on three criteria:\n\nAn earlier nomination in 1979 failed the following year as it lacked proper demarcation: the Malian government included the town of Timbuktu as a whole in the wish for inclusion. Close to a decade later, three mosques and 16 mausoleums or cemeteries were selected from the Old Town for World Heritage status: with this conclusion came the call for protection of the buildings' conditions, an exclusion of new construction works near the sites and measures against the encroaching sand.\n\nShortly afterwards, the monuments were placed on the List of World Heritage in Danger by the Malian government, as by the selection committee at the time of nomination. The first period on the Danger List lasted from 1990 until 2005, when a range of measures including restoration work and the compilation of an inventory warranted \"its removal from the Danger List\". In 2008 the WHC placed the protected area under increased scrutiny dubbed \"reinforced monitoring\", a measure made possible in 2007, as the impact of planned construction work was unclear. Special attention was given to the build of a cultural centre.\n\nDuring a session in June 2009, UNESCO decided to cease its increased monitoring program as it felt sufficient progress had been made to address the initial concerns. Following the takeover of Timbuktu by MNLA and the Islamist group Ansar Dine, it was returned to the List of World Heritage in Danger in 2012.\n\nIn May 2012, Ansar Dine destroyed a shrine in the city and in June 2012, in the aftermath of the Battle of Gao and Timbuktu, other shrines, including the mausoleum of Sidi Mahmoud, were destroyed when attacked with shovels and pickaxes by members of the same group. An Ansar Dine spokesman said that \"all\" shrines in the city, including the 13 remaining World Heritage sites, would be destroyed because they consider them to be examples of idolatry, a sin in Islam. These acts have been described as crimes against humanity and war crimes.\nAfter the destruction of the tombs, UNESCO created a special fund to safeguard Mali's World Heritage Sites, vowing to carry out reconstruction and rehabilitation projects once the security situation allows.\n\nTimbuktu was a world centre of Islamic learning from the 13th to the 17th century, especially under the Mali Empire and Askia Mohammad I's rule. The Malian government and NGOs have been working to catalog and restore the remnants of this scholarly legacy: Timbuktu's manuscripts.\n\nTimbuktu's rapid economic growth in the 13th and 14th centuries drew many scholars from nearby Walata (today in Mauretania), leading up to the city's golden age in the 15th and 16th centuries that proved fertile ground for scholarship of religions, arts and sciences. To the people of Timbuktu, literacy and books were symbols of wealth, power, and blessings and the acquisition of books became a primary concern for scholars. An active trade in books between Timbuktu and other parts of the Islamic world and emperor Askia Mohammed's strong support led to the writing of thousands of manuscripts.\n\nKnowledge was gathered in a manner similar to the early, informal European Medieval university model. Lecturing was presented through a range of informal institutions called madrasahs. Nowadays known as the University of Timbuktu, three \"madrasahs\" facilitated 25,000 students: Djinguereber, Sidi Yahya and Sankore.\n\nThese institutions were explicitly religious, as opposed to the more secular curricula of modern European universities and more similar to the medieval Europe model. However, where universities in the European sense started as associations of students and teachers, West-African education was patronized by families or lineages, with the Aqit and Bunu al-Qadi al-Hajj families being two of the most prominent in Timbuktu – these families also facilitated students is set-aside rooms in their housings. Although the basis of Islamic law and its teaching were brought to Timbuktu from North Africa with the spread of Islam, Western African scholarship developed: Ahmad Baba al Massufi is regarded as the city's greatest scholar.\n\nTimbuktu served in this process as a distribution centre of scholars and scholarship. Its reliance on trade meant intensive movement of scholars between the city and its extensive network of trade partners. In 1468–1469 though, many scholars left for Walata when Sunni Ali's Songhay Empire absorbed Timbuktu and again in 1591 with the Moroccan occupation.\n\nThis system of education survived until the late 19th century, while the 18th century saw the institution of itinerant Quranic school as a form of universal education, where scholars would travel throughout the region with their students, begging for food part of the day.\nIslamic education came under pressure after the French occupation, droughts in the 70s and 80s and by Mali's civil war in the early 90s.\n\nHundreds of thousands of manuscripts were collected in Timbuktu over the course of centuries: some were written in the town itself, others – including exclusive copies of the Qur'an for wealthy families – imported through the lively booktrade.\n\nHidden in cellars or buried, hid between the mosque's mud walls and safeguarded by their patrons, many of these manuscripts survived the city's decline. They now form the collection of several libraries in Timbuktu, holding up to 700,000 manuscripts: In late January 2013 it was reported that rebel forces destroyed many of the manuscripts before leaving the city. However, there was no malicious destruction of any library or collection as most of the manuscripts were safely hidden away. One librarian in particular, Abdel Kader Haidara, organized to have 350,000 medieval manuscripts smuggled out of Timbuktu for safekeeping.\n\nThese libraries are the largest among up to 60 private or public libraries that are estimated to exist in Timbuktu today, although some comprise little more than a row of books on a shelf or a bookchest. Under these circumstances, the manuscripts are vulnerable to damage and theft, as well as long term climate damage, despite Timbuktu's arid climate. Two Timbuktu Manuscripts Projects funded by independent universities have aimed to preserve them.\n\nDuring the occupation by Islamic extremists the citizens of the city embarked on a drive to save the “best written accounts of African History.” Interviewed by the Times the local residents claimed to have safeguarded the three hundred thousand manuscripts for generations. Many of these documents are still in the safe keeping of the local residents who are reluctant to give them overs to the government-run Ahmed Baba Institute housed in a modern digitalization building built by the South African government in 2009. The institute houses only 10% of the manuscripts It was later confirmed by Jean-Michel Djian to the New Yorker that \"the great majority of the manuscripts, about fifty thousand, are actually housed in the thirty-two family libraries of the 'City of 333 Saints. He added, \"Those are to this day protected.\" He also added that due to the massive efforts of one individual two hundred thousand other manuscripts were successfully transported to safety\n\nAlthough French is Mali's official language, today the large majority of Timbuktu's inhabitants speaks Koyra Chiini, a Songhay language that also functions as the lingua franca. Before the 1990–1994 Tuareg rebellion, both Hassaniya Arabic and Tamashek were represented by 10% each to an 80% dominance of the Koyra Chiini language. With Tamashek spoken by both Ikelan and ethnic Tuaregs, its use declined with the expulsion of many Tuaregs following the rebellion, increasing the dominance of Koyra Chiini.\n\nArabic, introduced together with Islam during the 11th century, has mainly been the language of scholars and religion, comparable to Latin in Western Christianity. Although Bambara is spoken by the most numerous ethnic group in Mali, the Bambara people, it is mainly confined to the south of the country. With an improving infrastructure granting Timbuktu access to larger cities in Mali's South, use of Bambara was increasing in the city at least until Azawad independence.\n\nWith no railroads in Mali except for the Dakar-Niger Railway up to Koulikoro, access to Timbuktu is by road, boat or, since 1961, aircraft. With high water levels in the Niger from August to December, Compagnie Malienne de Navigation (COMANAV) passenger ferries operate a leg between Koulikoro and downstream Gao on a roughly weekly basis. Also requiring high water are \"pinasses\" (large motorized pirogues), either chartered or public, that travel up and down the river.\n\nBoth ferries and \"pinasses\" arrive at Korioumé, Timbuktu's port, which is linked to the city centre by an paved road running through Kabara. In 2007, access to Timbuktu's traditional port, Kabara, was restored by a Libyan funded project that dredged the silted canal connecting Kabara to an arm of the Niger River. COMANAV ferries and \"pinassses\" are now able to reach the port when the river is in full flood.\n\nTimbuktu is poorly connected to the Malian road network with only dirt roads to the neighbouring towns. Although the Niger River can be crossed by ferry at Korioumé, the roads south of the river are no better. However, a new paved road is under construction between Niono and Timbuktu running to the north of the Inland Niger Delta. The road will pass through Nampala, Léré, Niafunké, Tonka, Diré and Goundam. The completed section between Niono and the small village of Goma Coura was financed by the Millennium Challenge Corporation. This new section will service the Alatona irrigation system development of the Office du Niger. The section between Goma Coura and Timbuktu is being financed by the European Development Fund.\n\nTimbuktu Airport is served by both Air Mali and Mali Air Express, hosting flights to and from Bamako, Gao and Mopti. Its 6,923 ft (2,110 m) runway in a 07/25 runway orientation is both lighted and paved.\n\nIn the imagination of Europeans and North Americans, Timbuktu is a place that bears with it a sense of mystery: a 2006 survey of 150 young Britons found 34% did not believe the town existed, while the other 66% considered it \"a mythical place\". This sense has been acknowledged in literature describing African history and African-European relations. Timbuktu is also often considered a far away place, in popular western culture.\n\nThe origin of this mystification lies in the excitement brought to Europe by the legendary tales, especially those by Leo Africanus: Arabic sources focused mainly on more affluent cities in the Timbuktu region, such as Gao and Walata. In West Africa the city holds an image that has been compared to Europe's view on Athens. As such, the picture of the city as the epitome of distance and mystery is a European one.\n\nDown-to-earth-aspects in Africanus' descriptions were largely ignored and stories of great riches served as a catalyst for travellers to visit the inaccessible city – with prominent French explorer René Caillié characterising Timbuktu as \"a mass of ill-looking houses built of earth\". Now opened up, many travellers acknowledged the unfitting description of an \"African El Dorado\". This development shifted the city's reputation – from being fabled because of its gold to fabled because of its location and mystery: Being used in this sense since at least 1863, English dictionaries now cite Timbuktu as a metaphor for any faraway place.\n\nIn \"Scales of Gold\" (1991), the fourth book in Dorothy Dunnett’s House of Niccolo series, key characters go to Africa in 1464-1467 searching for gold. They find in Timbuktu intellectual and spiritual wealth that transforms them.\n\nIn the original 1932 recording of the popular seaside song \"The Sun Has Got His Hat On\", the second verse contains the lines: \"[The Sun's] been tanning niggers out in Timbuktu / Now he's coming back to do the same to you!\" Due to the controversial nature of the racial epithet \"nigger\", controversy has arisen when this song has been played and various replacements, including \"negroes\" and \"roasting peanuts\" have been offered.\n\nSimilar uses of the city are found in movies, where it is used to indicate a place a person or good cannot be traced – in a Dutch Donald Duck comic subseries situated in Timbuktu, Donald Duck uses the city as a safe haven, and in the 1970 Disney animated feature \"The Aristocats\", Edgar, the butler villain of the story, threatens Thomas O'Malley, Duchess, Marie, and Berlioz with being sent to Timbuktu only for Thomas O'Malley's friends to rescue them and send Edgar there instead. It is mistakenly noted to be in French Equatorial Africa, instead of French West Africa.\n\nAli Farka Touré inverted the stereotype: \"For some people, when you say 'Timbuktu' it is like the end of the world, but that is not true. I am from Timbuktu, and I can tell you that we are right at the heart of the world.\"\n\nTimbuktu is a sister city to the following cities:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15622519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15622519", "title": "Timeline of Australian radio", "text": "Timeline of Australian radio\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30155891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30155891", "title": "Tony Nichols", "text": "Tony Nichols\n\nAnthony Howard \"Tony\" Nichols (born 29 March 1938) is a retired Australian Anglican bishop.\n\nNichols holds academic qualifications from the Universities of Sydney, London, Sheffield and Macquarie University. He was a Latin and history teacher until his ordination to the priesthood in 1963. He had curacies at St Paul’s Chatswood and St Bede’s Drummoyne. He was a lecturer in Biblical Studies at Moore College, Sydney from 1968 to 1981 and Dean of the Faculty of Theology at Satya Wacana Christian University until 1987. A further academic appointment at St Andrew’s Hall, Melbourne (a Church Mission Society training college) was followed by his ordination to the episcopate as the fifth Bishop of North West Australia, a position he held until 2003. Since then he has been Dean of Students and a lecturer in Biblical Studies at Trinity Theological College in Perth. He is married to Judith M. Nichols.\n"}
{"id": "25960324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25960324", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 470", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 470\n\nUnited Nations Security Council resolution 470, adopted on 30 May 1980, considered a report by the Secretary-General regarding the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force. The Council noted its efforts to establish a durable and just peace in the Middle East but also expressed its concern over the prevailing state of tension in the area.\n\nThe resolution decided to call upon the parties concerned to immediately implement Resolution 338 (1973), it renewed the mandate of the Observer Force for another 6 months until 30 November 1980 and requested that the Secretary-General submit a report on the situation at the end of that period.\n\nThe resolution was adopted with 14 votes to none; China did not participate in the voting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30019789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30019789", "title": "W &amp; J Galloway &amp; Sons", "text": "W &amp; J Galloway &amp; Sons\n\nW & J Galloway and Sons was a British manufacturer of steam engines and boilers based in Manchester, England. The firm was established in 1835 as a partnership of two brothers, William and John Galloway. The partnership expanded to encompass their sons and in 1889 it was restructured as a limited liability company. It ceased trading in 1932.\n\nThe Galloway brothers had been apprenticed to another partnership involving their father, a maker of waterwheels and gearing for mills, before setting up in business on their own account. Their firm grew to be a specialist producer of steam engines and industrial boilers with a worldwide customer base and a reputation for ingenuity. Their products were used in such diverse areas as electricity generation and refrigeration. The business grew with the increasing application of steam power in industry, and it died with industry's move to the application of electric power.\n\nWilliam Galloway was born on 5 March 1768 at Coldstream in the Scottish Borders, became a millwright and moved to Manchester in 1790. He was one of many Scots who moved to England seeking to gain from the rapid expansion of industry there; others included William Murdoch and James Watt, who settled in Birmingham, and fellow settlers in the Manchester area, John Kennedy, James McConnel and the cotton-spinning brothers, Adam and George Murray.\n\nHe set up business at his home address, 37 Lombard Street. In 1806 he formed a business partnership with a friend and fellow ex-resident of Coldstream, James Bowman: Galloway wrote to him offering a joint business venture in return for a £200 injection of capital. Bowman moved from London, where he had gone to seek his fortune, and took up residence at Trumpet Street, Manchester. It would appear that the partnership with Bowman coincided with a move to premises at the Caledonia Foundry at 44, Great Bridgewater Street, on the corner of Albion Street in the Gaythorn district. At this time the business traded as millwrights but by 1813 \"engineers\" had been added to the description, and by 1817 there was the addition of \"ironfounders\". The term \"engineer\" in relation to mechanical work was a relatively new one.\n\nAround 1820, William Glasgow, a foundryman from the Tweed who had been working in Bolton for Rothwell and Hick, joined Galloway and Bowman as a junior partner. His role was to supervise the new ironfounding section of the business. The works were extended by the purchase of additional land. The partnership manufactured water wheels, their associated gearing, and other machinery associated with all forms of milling. As early as 1820 the men had completed some projects for customers in France (at Lille) and the United States (Charleston, South Carolina).\n\nHis son, John, wrote later that \n\nAt some time before 1828 Galloway and Bowman formed a partnership as machine makers. This was separate and in addition to their partnership with Glasgow, which continued to trade as millwrights, founders and engineers. It has been speculated that Bowman married a sister of Galloway.\n\nThe firm of Galloway, Bowman and Glasgow became the repair facility for the fledgling Liverpool and Manchester Railway which had no workshops of its own. In 1830–31 the partnership constructed its first steam locomotive, the \"Manchester\" and by the following year had produced the \"Caledonian\". They had wooden wheels on to which were shrunk welded metal tyres. The wheels were built by John Ashbury, who was later to become a notable engineer in his own right and the owner of the eponymous railway wagon works at Openshaw.\n\nNeither locomotive was initially a success, although the design problems were resolved. In the case of \"Caledonian\" the vertical cylinders were placed between the frames in front of the smokebox and drove vertically mounted connecting rods attached to the leading wheels, which were also in front of the smokebox. It had a tendency to derail and had to be rebuilt with inside cylinders and a cranked axle. Vertical cylinders were the norm at this time (other builders used them too), the theory being that a horizontal or inclined arrangement would lead to premature wear due to the weight of the piston. Four or five locomotives were built at a price fixed by the railway company of between £900 and £1000 each. John Galloway junior commented late in life that: \n\nThe success to come with stationary steam engines was in no small part based on the experiences with the short-lived railway locomotive production: the locomotives had boilers rated for , compared to the normal stationary engine boiler rating at that time of . To put this into context, however, John Galloway senior is reported to have said that the challenges of building a locomotive were nothing compared to those of getting it out of the works and onto the railway afterwards. He elaborated that \n\nBy this time the partnership were producing a wide range of engineered items, including: wagons and associated parts for collieries and the Liverpool and Manchester Railway; machinery for silk mills and for salt works; steam engines for cotton mills; pipes for Benjamin Joule's Salford Brewery in New Bailey Street, Salford; and also a lead rolling mill.\n\nWilliam Galloway junior was born in 1796 and on 14 February 1804 his brother, John, was born at his father's Lombard Street address. The brothers were both apprenticed for seven years to their father from the age of 14, William as an ironfounder and John as a millwright and engineer. Bowman's son, William, was similarly apprenticed as a millwright from 1821. In the last year of his apprenticeship, 1824, John Galloway went to Dunkirk to install engines, boilers and pumps for the French government.\n\nWilliam Galloway senior died on 7 September 1836 and some time between April and December 1838 James Bowman also died. Glasgow had given Bowman six months' notice of his wish to terminate the partnership on 11 April 1838. In 1839 the Galloway brothers bought some of the stock of the erstwhile partnership which was being disposed of by auction. The Caledonia foundry building was subsumed by Central Station by the 1890s.\n\nIt is possible that William Glasgow was still conducting business as an ironfounder in 1841 from an address at Gloucester Street.\n\nThe Galloway brothers worked for their father's partnership until in 1835, not long before its demise they set up business together as W. and J. Galloway. They had been considering such a move since at least 1830, with John saying many years later that \"there were too many in partnership already, and conflicting interests began to present themselves\". \n\nThe brothers built a foundry at Knott Mill, near Chester Road in Hulme on the site of former premises which had served a similar purpose but had fallen into disuse subsequent to the death of its owner, Alexander Brodie, in 1811. The site was near to William's address as known in 1832, which was 26 Jackson's Lane, Hulme. (The lane was subsequently renamed Great Jackson Street). A key advantage of the site was the adjacent River Medlock, sources of water being vital for iron founding and the operation of steam engines, and it was the erosion caused by this watercourse which required the works to be built on two levels. It has been noted that the Medlock had a greater concentration of steam engines along its length than any other similar river in England and the quality of the water was so poor, due to industrial pollution, that there were immense difficulties with priming in steam engine boilers.\n\nBefore 1840 the firm had manufactured at least two steam engines, the first for Hayward of Yeovil, Somerset and the second for a mill in Glossop, Derbyshire. In that year they were successful in gaining much work in the manufacture of gas pipes and equipment for gasworks, a new and burgeoning industry. From 1842 until June 1847 the brothers were in partnership, as Galloways & Company, with Joseph Haley, in Manchester and Paris, as \"Manufacturers of Patent Screw or Lifting Jacks, and as Patentees of Machines for cutting, punching and compressing Metals, and of the Rivets and other articles constructed by the said last-mentioned Machines ... [and] as Cotton Banding Manufacturers\". In that month the partnership was dissolved and the Galloways continued to manufacture the machines and rivets in Manchester and Haley continued with the rivets in Paris. By 1856 they had six of these machines in their factory and manufactured two tons of rivets per machine per day, the devices being operated by one man and 20 boys. An example of a wooden-bodied Galloway-Haley lifting jack is in Museo del Ferrocarril (railway museum) in Madrid. The patents were Haley's; for example, patent number 8768 of 31 December 1840 for an improved lifting jack and compressor.\n\nFrom 1848 the brothers took out numerous patents related to steam power, with John Galloway taking a particular interest in issues to improve the efficiency of boilers. Before that they had registered at least one design to improve efficiency under the Designs Act of 1843. The most significant of the early patents was that of 11 March 1851 (England and Wales) and 14 April 1851 (Scotland) for the Galloway boiler, (UK patent 13532/1851, extended in 1865 for a further five years). They had built boilers of this type before the patent was granted, since at least 1849, and one was exhibited in 1851 at the Great Exhibition before being purchased by the West Ham Gutta Percha Company. The firm built approximately 9,000 of the type by 1891 and licensed the design for manufacture by other parties. So much work was created by this aspect of the business that in 1872 premises were obtained on Hyde Road, near Ardwick railway station, to handle it, leaving the Knott Mill works to concentrate on building engines.\n\nThe Lancashire boiler, which formed the basis on which the Galloways developed their 1851 design, had been patented by Sir William Fairbairn and John Hetherington in 1844. In 1854 Fairbairn was sent a warning letter by the firm regarding what they believed to be an infringement of their patents. Nine years previously the Galloways had done the same to James Lillie, a former business partner of Fairbairn, with reference to a boiler-related design that they alleged had been registered by them in 1845, although there is no record of any such designs or patents of the type which were registered by the Galloways between 1843 and 1845.\n\nIt should be noted that the Galloway boiler was not entirely the work of the brothers as they sought the advice of Robert Armstrong, a consulting engineer, in 1850 and it was he who arranged for the boiler to be exhibited in 1851. Similarly, Sekon notes that at least one Galloway patent relating to boilers was originally devised by another person: Timothy Hackworth's 1830 design for the boiler of his locomotive \"The Globe\" was later patented by the Galloways for use with stationary steam engines.\n\nFrom 1855 the firm was working with Henry Bessemer, inventor of the eponymous process, in steel manufacture; he described William Galloway as \"my old friend\" when writing in 1905. He had been a customer of the firm since 1843 when he had developed a process for refining sugar and employed the Galloways to construct it. Bessemer and Galloways conducted a series of experiments throughout 1855 on land bought for the purpose at the Knott Mill Ironworks. This was while he was trying to prove his method, and Galloways are thought likely to have constructed the equipment that Bessemer used in his later trials at Baxter House in London, after which he announced the process to the world in August 1856 at Cheltenham. From these events comes the claim, frequently made including by John Galloway, that the first ingots of Bessemer steel were made at the Knott Mill Ironworks. Furthermore, the Galloways were the first to license Bessemer's process, obtaining the rights to operate it in Manchester and for a radius of around before the process was made public. Within a month of his announcement Bessemer had raised £27,000, granting further licenses to the Dowlais Ironworks in South Wales, Govan Iron Works (Glasgow), Butterley Iron Company (Derbyshire), and a tin-plate company in Wales.\n\nThe Knott Mill works were one of those at which Bessemer set up his experimental \"converting vessels\" when attempting to prove his process commercially late in 1856. The other test sites were Dowlais, Butterley and Govan. The tests failed to work as intended: it later became clear that this was because the pig iron used contained phosphorus whereas that with which he had experimented in London did not. The product was \"rotten hot and rotten cold\", according to his friend, William Clay He refunded the licensees' money and an additional £5,500.\n\nIt was a further two years before Bessemer resolved the technical metallurgical problems, at which point the Galloway ironworks were once again his test site. There he trialled the steel he had produced at his London factory, which he granulated and then transported for remelting and conversion into ingots at Sheffield:\n\nWhen this success was achieved in 1858 the Galloways gave up their licensed rights, which had not been bought back as had those of the other licensees. They went instead into partnership with Bessemer, Robert Longsdon and William Daniel Allen (long-term business partners, and both of them his brothers-in-law) in building and operating his steel works in Sheffield. The business, established in 1859, was called Henry Bessemer & Co. and the capital input totalled around £12,000 with Bessemer and Longdon contributing £6,000, Allen contributing £500 and the Galloways £5,000. The partnership agreement was to be operational for 14 years. It initially produced steel at £10 to £15 cheaper per ton than had previously been possible, and later for around £45 less. The Galloways supplied equipment for its works – including tyre mills for the production of railway wheels – as well as, later, for other works which licensed the process, such as the Weardale Iron Company and John Brown of Sheffield. The venture blossomed, although Bessemer made more money from his licensing deals. He quotes the following profit/(loss) figures for the early years of the factory's trading:\n\nAnother involvement was in Bessemer's disastrous attempts to produce a ship with a stabilised passenger area, the \"SS Bessemer\", for which Galloways supplied the hydraulic equipment. The concept had been that a saloon within the vessel would be supported in such a way as not to pitch, roll or yaw as the ship sailed. (The ship's manoeuvrability was poor and, having crashed on its maiden voyage, investors lost confidence and the project was abandoned with the equipment remaining untested.)\n\nThe firm manufactured on behalf of Bessemer the converters for the works of the Pennsylvania Steel Company in the late 1860s. Along with Hick, Hargreaves of Bolton, Galloways were the only business allowed to produce equipment for the new process.\n\nNor might these have been their only involvement: William Galloway owned land at Runcorn and there were discussions between him and Bessemer regarding a partnership to erect a blast furnace for the purpose of manufacturing \"rich manganesian pig-iron\", which was required at that time to de-oxidise the molten blown metal. However, delays in progressing this idea, due to Bessemer's process gaining widespread use, ultimately resulted in Galloway feeling he was too old to embark on the venture.\n\nThe partnership of Henry Bessemer & Co. was formally ended on 25 June 1877 \"by the effluxion of time\", although the Sheffield factory continued production with Allen buying Bessemer's interest in it that year. The dissolution of the partnership involved selling the business, its premises and its equipment. Including the distributions of profits made during its lifespan, each partner had at the date of effective dissolution in 1873 made 81 times the amount of money that they had original subscribed. William Galloway had died in 1873 (his executors being John Galloway junior, John Brown Payne and John Galloway Meller), as had Robert Longsdon, whose executors were also named in the notice of partnership dissolution; Bessemer had retired from day-to-day business in the same year. A person with the last name of Meller, but not John Galloway Meller, had been an executor to the estate of William Galloway senior.\n\nIn 1856 the sons of the firm's founders joined the partnership: John Galloway, the son of William, born on 18 July 1826 at Great Jackson Street, Manchester, and Charles John the son of John, born 25 April 1833. Both had been apprenticed to the firm and its name was adjusted to reflect their involvement. Great Jackson Street was very close to the Knott Mill works and \"Pigot and Slater's General and Classified Directory of Manchester and Salford\" for 1841 not merely lists William junior living at number 69 but also John at number 55 and a Mrs Mary Galloway at 67. It also shows members of the Glasgow family, including William at 34 Great Bridgewater Street and John at 53 Great Jackson Street.\n\nDespite the expansion of the partnership a deed registered in the Court of Bankruptcy in July 1864 only names William and John Galloway, who were to receive a payment of 6s. 8d. in the pound from Thomas Redhead of Belvoir Terrace, Old Chester Road, Tranmere, the proprietor of a steam tug. A petition for the winding-up of the Globe New Patent Iron and Steel Co, Ltd. in 1875 shows that by that date the partnership comprised John Galloway snr, John Galloway Jnr, Charles John Galloway and Edward Napier Galloway. Edward was another son of John senior, who married a Miss Lewis in 1827 and they had four sons and a daughter.\n\nDuring the 1850s and 1860s the firm generated many overseas sales to countries such as Turkey, India and Russia, and for items as diverse as gunpowder mills, boilers, presses, and steam engines for use in a wide variety of applications. The firm supplied cast iron columns for buildings, constructed the pier at Southport (and then extended it, for which the tender was £3,000) and, between 1855 and 1857, a railway viaduct over the River Leven close to Ulverston. The pier and the bridge employed a new construction method devised by John Galloway, using pressurised water jets to create the holes into which the piles were later driven.\n\nGalloways were among the well-known promoters of a new business, The Lancashire Steel Company Ltd., in 1863. The intention was that this company would develop a 10 acre site at Gorton with buildings, blast furnaces and all the necessaries of steel production by the Bessemer process, in order initially to produce 200 tons a week of steel in blocks weighing up to 10 tons. The site was adjacent to the Manchester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire Railway, for ease of transport. It was planned to eventually produce 20 ton blocks and to equip it with the most powerful tooling so that the company could supply the maritime market. Capitalisation was to be £150,000. In fact, the venture was a failure and it was wound-up in 1867.\n\nAround 1873 the firm supplied two blowing engines to the huge Krupp steelworks at Essen, Germany. It was in this decade that the company began to install flat belt drive systems for the transfer of power from its stationary steam engines to the looms and similar machinery which they were intended to service. This technique was common in the US but rare in Britain until this time: the advantages included less noise and less wasted energy in the friction losses inherent in the previously common drive shafts and their associated gearing. Also, maintenance was simpler and cheaper, and it was a more convenient method for the arrangement of power drives such that if one part were to fail then it would not cause loss of power to all sections of a factory or mill. These systems were in turn superseded in popularity by rope drive methods.\n\nCharles John Galloway had a particular interest in exhibitions. The firm displayed two 40 horsepower Galloway boilers at the 1873 Vienna Universal Exhibition, and a 35 horsepower compound engine. In 1876 the firm was gazetted for an award for Services to the American Executive in Machinery Department at the Philadelphia International Exhibition, and he was awarded the title of Chevalier of the Legion of Honour after the Paris Exhibition of 1878, raised to the rank of Officer after the similarly titled event of 1889. He was very active in the organisation of the Royal Manchester Jubilee Exhibition of 1887. John Galloway junior was chairman of the organising committee for the latter event. Some years later, in 1894, Galloways won the \"Grand Prix\" in the \"Motive & Machines\" section of the Antwerp International Exhibition.\n\nCharles John did not limit his activities to that of the family firm and was chairman of Boiler Insurance and Steam Power Co. Ltd. in September 1880, when an extraordinary general meeting held in King Street, Manchester resolved to liquidate the company and sell its business and assets. He was also a director of the Manchester Ship Canal Company and had been a director of the Steam Boiler Assurance Co. Ltd.\n\nThe partnership was converted into a private company, Galloways Ltd., in 1889, with a share capital of £250,000 in £100 shares. The initial subscribers, who each took one share, were John Galloway, John Galloway junior, Charles John Galloway, Edward Napier Galloway, Arthur Walter Galloway, John Henry Beckwith, W E Norbury and C Rought – all but the last giving their address as the Knott Mill Ironworks. Beckwith, MIMechE, had been a frequent co-applicant with Charles John Galloway in applications for patents and provisional protection thereof: he had joined the company in his early 20s in 1864 as a draughtsman and, after a brief interlude working for another business in Buenos Aires, returned in 1867; by 1877 he was chief design engineer and he became managing director with the conversion to limited company status; he resigned as managing director in 1897 but kept his seat on the board of directors until his death one year later.\n\nJohn Galloway junior had been increasingly involved in the management of the partnership as it grew rapidly but the restructuring of the partnership as a company saw Charles John Galloway installed as chairman and managing director. John Galloway junior had numerous other business interests, and was a JP (as was Charles) and had a great interest in philanthropy. His business interests included being chairman of Earle's Shipbuilding and Engineering Company at Hull, and a director of Carnforth Hematite Iron Co, \"(correct spelling, founded 1865)\" the North of England Trustee, Debenture & Assets Corporation Ltd., Hoyland & Silkstone Colliery Co. and the Blackpool Land Company. Earle's had built the \"SS Bessemer\".\n\nFive years later, on 11 February 1894, John Galloway senior died aged almost 90. His estate was valued at £143,117 and by this time the company had 500 employees at the Knott Mill site and a further 800 at Ardwick. His last home address was Coldstream House, Old Trafford and his executors were William Lewis Galloway (a sugar refiner, of The Lawn, Brook Lane, Timperley and sometime councillor of the County Borough of Salford), Edward Napier Galloway (Normanby, Altrincham) and John Galloway Meller (a land agent of Cooper Street, Manchester). An engineer, Edward Galloway was appointed a Land Tax Commissioner in 1899; he died on 5 October 1919 when living at Hill Rise, Leicester Road, Altrincham. The children of John Galloway established a charitable fund in memory of him and his wife, Emma, in 1895. This survived under the name of the John and Emma Galloway Memorial until October 1991, when it was amalgamated.\n\nJohn Galloway junior died on 16 December 1896 at his home, The Cottage, Seymour Grove, Manchester. He left one son, William Johnson Galloway, born in 1868, who was also involved with the family firm and was at the time of his father's death the Conservative MP for Manchester South-west (his father, although keeping a low profile, was of Liberal persuasion and a member of the United Presbyterian Church). Both of these men were interred at Weaste Cemetery, Salford.\n\nThere was a capital restructuring in 1895, and in 1899 the business became a public limited company. Somewhere between these dates the chairmanship appears to have moved from Charles John Galloway to Edward Napier Galloway, according to the announcements in \"The London Gazette\". However, \"The Engineer\" reported Charles John as chairman at the company's annual general meeting in 1901 and noted that Sir Richard Mottram was a director. Mottram was Mayor of Salford between 1894 and 1898; he held other directorships with Manchester Liners Ltd (or perhaps Manchester Linen Ltd) and Chillan Mills Co Ltd.\n\nThe 1901 meeting authorised a dividend payment of 6% and the issue of 2,746 shares at £10 each in order to aid investment in plant and extended premises for the purpose of manufacturing 'high-speed engines'. This issue of shares amounted to 20% of the then issued capital, and they were taken up by existing shareholders. In the same year the company considerably extended its Knott Mill factory, at which time a visitor noted in particular the work in progress on \"several exceptionally large engines for iron and steel works\" (one had a 45 ton, 24 foot diameter flywheel and a total weight of 230 tons) and also a wood treatment plant for the Northern Wood Haskinising Company (\"haskinising\" was a wood preservation technique). There were reports at this time that the company had licensed and was developing Pictet's discovery of an improved method for the production of oxygen gas, although there were suggestions that this may have been as part of a syndicate involving other Manchester businesses. The plan was for Pictet to experiment further at the Galloway works and if the outcome was successful then a new company would be formed.\n\nThe 1902 annual general meeting confirmed that the expansion was complete, voted a similar dividend and re-elected William Johnson Galloway and Charles Rought as directors; it also noted that an order for a blowing machine from Carnforth Hematite was being processed.\n\nCharles John Galloway died on 14 March 1904. His address at the time of death was Thorneyholme, Knutsford and his executors were Arthur Walter Galloway, Henry Bessemer Galloway and William Sharp Galloway, his sons. He was interred at Mobberley Church.\n\nThe Galloway boiler was still being improved around this time. In 1902 the company introduced a superheater and in 1910 began to use another design of the same.\n\nThe company was involved in a significant court case in 1912, which went to the highest court of the land and was subsequently cited in other cases, including in the United States. In 1902 a Mr Noden, employed as a riveter, had an accident at work which resulted in the amputation of a finger. He resumed work at the company in 1903 as a caulker, which involved using a light hammer, but in 1910 was instructed to use a heavy pneumatic hammer. The vibration from this heavier hammer caused his hand to become inflamed and he sought compensation, based on his injury of 1902. A lower court awarded him this compensation but the judgment was overturned on appeal by the Law Lords, who directed that there was no evidence that the 1902 accident was a contributory cause of his injury of 1910 and that, in any event, the latter incident was not actually an accident at all and therefore there was no entitlement to compensation under the terms of the 1897 Workmen's Compensation Act.\n\nThere had been a previous judgement of some legal significance in 1900, being the matter of Statham vs Galloways Ltd. In this instance an employee had obeyed the order of a superior and as a consequence of doing so had suffered injury. The ruling was that the injured employee had stepped outside the Workmen's Compensation Act by doing something which he knew to be outside the scope of his duties but, nonetheless, obedience was also a duty and that obedience took precedence.\n\nThe company was placed in receivership on the application of its debenture holders in 1912, despite the business being \"much more promising than for some time past\". The cause of this was a proposal to issue prior lien debentures to the value of £50,000, a move which would dilute the position of existing debenture holders. It was reported that the company might be restructured in order to resolve this issue. \n\nThere was a restructuring of the company on 27 July 1925, a scheme of arrangement being made with shareholders and debenture holders such that the capital was reduced from £330,000 to £198,192. The following year saw the company take on the drawings and patterns of John Musgrave & Sons following the closure of that business.\n\nIt has been calculated that the number of engineering firms in Manchester more than halved between 1899 and 1939, with the inter-war recession causing particularly severe contraction in the manufacturing spheres of textile machinery, locomotive engineering and boilermaking. The businesses most likely to survive were those that did not rely extensively on exports, on the production of capital goods and on time-served skilled labour – \"the newer, more capital-intensive, mass-production, domestic market-oriented engineering firms, employing a large proportion of semi-skilled labour fared better and dominated the industry by 1939.\"\nThe company went into receivership in 1932 and in 1933, Hick, Hargreaves & Co. purchased the complete records, drawings and patterns of the defunct W & J Galloway Limited.\n\nIn 1848, Galloways patented the \"Galloway tube\", a tapered thermic syphon water-tube inserted in the furnace of a Lancashire boiler. The tubes are tapered, simply to make their installation through the flue easier.\n\nThese were followed in 1851 by the \"Galloway boiler\". The flues beyond the two furnaces of the Lancashire boiler were merged into a single wide flue. This widened and flat-topped flue was stayed by the use of many conical vertical Galloway tubes being riveted into it, improving the circulation of water and increasing the heating surface.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31271493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31271493", "title": "Yael S. Feldman", "text": "Yael S. Feldman\n\nYael S. Feldman (Hebrew: יעל פלדמן, née Keren-Or) is an Israeli-born American scholar and academic particularly known for her work in comparative literature and feminist Hebrew literary criticism. She is the Abraham I. Katsh Professor of Hebrew Culture and Education in the Judaic Studies Department at New York University and an Affiliated Professor of Comparative Literature and Gender Studies. She is also a Fellow of the American Academy for Jewish Research, and a Visiting Fellow at Wolfson College, Cambridge. Feldman has lectured and published internationally, and served as editor of both general and academic journals. Her research interests include Hebrew culture (biblical and modern); history of ideas (particularly of Zionism and its contexts); gender and cultural studies; and psychoanalytic criticism.\n\nFeldman received her B.A. in Hebrew Literature and Language and\nEnglish Literature from Tel Aviv University in 1967 and her M.A. in Medieval\nHebrew Literature from Hebrew College in 1976. Her Ph.D. dissertation at\nColumbia University was on the Hebrew-American poet Gabriel Preil who\nwas to become the subject of her first book, \"Modernism and Cultural Transfer\":\n\"Gabriel Preil and the Tradition of Jewish Literary Bilingualism\" (1986). Her\nMA thesis formed the basis of her second book, in Hebrew, \"Polarity and Parallel\": \"Semantic Patterns in the Medieval Hebrew Qasida\" (1987). After receiving her Ph.D. in 1981, she completed postdoctoral study at the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research. Psychoanalytic theory has continued to inform her literary criticism as well as her studies on gender and biblical and Zionist\nnarratives, beginning with her third publication, \"Teaching the Hebrew Bible as Literature in Translation\" (1989) and subsequent articles. According to Glenda Abramson, writing in \"The Oxford Handbook of Jewish Studies\", by the 1980s Feldman was seen as one of the leaders of the study of Israeli literary feminism along with Anne Golomb Hoffman and Naomi Sokoloff. Her \"No Room of Their Own: Gender and Nation in Israeli Women's Fiction\", published in 1999, was the first book-length treatment devoted to Israeli women writers and written from a feminist perspective. It was a finalist in the 2000 National Jewish Book Awards and its 2003 Hebrew translation won the Abraham Friedman Award for Hebrew Literature. Her fifth book, \"Glory and Agony: Isaac's Sacrifice and National Narrative\", is the first book-length study of the ethos of national sacrifice in modern Hebrew culture. Growing out of her abiding interest in the impact of the Bible on contemporary psycho-politics, gender, and violence, it explores the biblical and classical stories of potential and enacted sacrifice (Isaac, Jephthah’s daughter, Iphigenia, Jesus) that have nourished myths of altruist heroism over the last century. This study was a finalist in the 2010 National Jewish Book Awards (Scholarship–Nahum M. Sarna Memorial Award). It was described by Perry Meisel as “a dazzling synthesis of political and religious history, particularly the history of the State of Israel and the tradition of Biblical interpretation\" and as an \"essential reading for American readers\" by Alicia Ostriker. \"Glory and Agony\" has been praised in \"Review of Biblical Literature\", where Lena-Sofia Tiemeyer wrote \"This fascinating, multifaceted, and erudite book... is both very enjoyable and highly thought provoking, and I can recommend it whole-heartedly.\"\n\nFeldman’s scholarship—twice a Finalist in the National Jewish Book Awards and the winner of the Abraham Friedman Award for Hebrew Literature-was supported by various grants and fellowships, including the National Endowment for the Humanities, Fulbright-Hays Program, Littauer Foundation, Centers for Advanced Jewish Studies at Oxford and PENN Universities, Lady Davis Fellowship at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, and Yad Vashem International Holocaust Research Center.\n\nFeldman served for 17 years (1985–2002) as the Culture and Art Editor of \"Ha-do'ar\", an American Hebrew Journal of long standing (1921–2005). She has also served on the editorial boards of the academic journals \"Prooftexts\", \"Hebrew Studies\", \"Contemporary Women's Writings\", and \"Women in Judaism: A Multidisciplinary Journal\". In 1992 she founded the Discussion Group for Modern Hebrew Literature at the Modern Language Association of America and served as its first Chair.\n\nThe following is a selection of the more than 60 refereed journal articles and book chapters authored by Yael Feldman.\n\n\n"}
