{"id": "30089276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30089276", "title": "1771 Great Yaeyama Tsunami", "text": "1771 Great Yaeyama Tsunami\n\nThe 1771 Great Yaeyama Tsunami (also called 明和の大津波, the Great Tsunami of Meiwa) was caused by the Yaeyama Great Earthquake at about 8 A.M. on April 24, 1771, south-southeast of Ishigaki Island, part of the former Ryūkyū Kingdom and now forming part of present-day Okinawa, Japan. According to records, 8,439 persons were killed on Ishigaki Island and 2,548 on Miyako Island.\n\nAccording to the Japanese government publication \"Rika-Nenpyō\" () or \"Chronological Scientific Tables\", the epicenter was 40 km south-southeast of Ishigaki Island with a magnitude of 7.4. According to the Mamoru Nakamura Laboratory, University of the Ryukyus, the earthquake was due to the activity of the fault east of Ishigaki and it is estimated that the magnitude was 7.5. Further simulation led to the activity of faults in the Ryukyu oceanic trench and the magnitude was 8.0. Also, there is a hypothesis that claims the magnitude was 8.5. The depth was . This trench lies between the Philippine Sea Plate and the Eurasian Plate.\n\nIt is considered that the earthquake registered an intensity of 4(on the Japanese scale) in the Yaeyama Islands, and the damage by the earthquake was not as serious as the tsunami.\n\nThe dead and missing amounted to 12,000 people, and more than 2,000 houses were destroyed on Ishigaki and Miyakojima. Agriculture was severely damaged because of sea water invasion and the population decreased to about one third of what it was before the earthquake. On Ishigaki island, the wave was 40 to 80 meters high. There are many huge rocks believed to have been left by the earthquake. There was a legend that an islet disappeared, but this has never been verified.\n\n"}
{"id": "8033413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8033413", "title": "1983 Mediterranean Games", "text": "1983 Mediterranean Games\n\nThe IX Mediterranean Games – Casablanca 1983 (), commonly known as the 1983 Mediterranean Games, were the 9th Mediterranean Games. The Games were held in Casablanca, Morocco, from 3 to 17 September 1983, where 2,192 athletes (1,845 men and 347 women) from 16 countries participated. There were a total of 162 medal events from 20 different sports.\n\nThe following is a list of nations that participated in the 1983 Mediterranean Games:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7581480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7581480", "title": "2005 Moscow power blackouts", "text": "2005 Moscow power blackouts\n\nOn 25 May 2005 to 3 August 2005, Moscow's ten-week-long in was a power supplies were the centre of a major incident, restored 3 August 2005, which resulted in the supply being outed for several hours in many of City of Moscow districts, as well as Moscow, Tula, Kaluga and Ryazan provinces. Some tens of thousands of people were trapped in stranded underground trains in the Moscow Metro and in elevators, railway signaling was put out of action and many commercial and governmental organisations were paralysed.\n\nThe accident, which some accounts state affected more than 2 million people, started in powerstation no. 510 Chagino, situated in the south-east of Moscow in the Kuzminki district. Here, the high voltage (500 kV) current, going into the capital along the main power lines, is lowered via transformers for city usage to 220 kV and 110 kV.\n\nThe Chagino substation, built in 1964, is equipped with six high-to-low transformers. Another six substations situated around the MKAD carry out the same functions, and form the Moscow energy ring, which supply Moscow and neighbouring provinces with electricity.\n\nThe immediate cause of the incident, some state, was a mixture of several factors, among which feature: equipment wear-and-tear, absence of back-up powers, the fact that Moscow had endured temperatures above 30 °C for a number of days. Moreover, Moscow is a very complex region and has the most complex electrical schemata, or \"copper board\", as it is known by those in the business. It is the only region in which there has been no automatic shut-off system installed since the fall of the Soviet Union. This increased vulnerability of Moscow's electrical network played an important role in what happened.\n\n"}
{"id": "36173142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36173142", "title": "2012 Tripoli airport clashes", "text": "2012 Tripoli airport clashes\n\nThe 2012 Tripoli airport clashes occurred on 4 June 2012, after members of the Al-Awfea militia stormed the Tripoli International Airport as a measure to prompt the government's release of its jailed leader, Abu Oegeila al-Hebshi.\n\nThe Tarhouna Al-Awfea militia group was enlisted under the command of the Libyan National Army, and performed several missions tasked by military command. On the day before the clashes, Commander Abu-Alija Habshi travelled to Tripoli with two tanks that were to be given to the army barracks. However, Habshi was stopped at a checkpoint outside of Tripoli and was asked to leave the tanks there instead; he was also informed that he needed to return to Tarhouna in order to obtain proper government documentation. However, that was the last time Habshi has been reported seen by anyone. The Libyan government has denied any involvement in Habshi's disappearance, but militiamen under the Commander's authority have alleged that the security forces are closely connected with the disappearance.\n\n200 gunmen belonging to the Al-Awfea militia took control of the Tripoli International Airport and stopped all flights, after Al-Awfea militiamen ignored the ultimatum given by Defence minister Osama Juwaili to surrender the SSC and MoD forces that stormed the airport, destroyed one tank and captured the other and also arrested more than 172 Tarhouni militiamen.\n\nThe airport remained non-functional after the clashes. Government spokesman Nasser al-Manee said that \"the airport will resume operation within 24 hours. [He] heard there were some injured\". The next day, on 6 June, some airliners restarted their flights from Tripoli International.\n\n"}
{"id": "48926609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48926609", "title": "2015 Corsican protests", "text": "2015 Corsican protests\n\nThe 2015 Corsican protests were a series of marches by several hundred Corsican nationalists that began on 25 December, in Ajaccio, capital of Corsica. During the initial demonstrations, a Muslim prayer hall was burned down and Qur'ans were set alight. Further protests were organised after the initial march despite a government ban on protests until 4 January 2016. The protesters claimed to be acting in revenge for an incident that occurred the day prior when firefighters and police were assaulted in the neighbourhood of Jardins de l'Empereur; however, outside observers labeled the ensuing riots as anti-Arab and anti-Muslim. The Corsican nationalist politicians have claimed their view does not legitimise xenophobia, blaming the protest on French nationalism instead. Scholarly opinions on this claim are divided.\n\nOver the past several decades, Corsican nationalists have been calling for the island's recognition as a nation since French annexation. Following years of violence by the FLNC (stopped in 2014), a referendum on increased devolution failed by a narrow majority. The Corsican language is also labeled as a \"definitely endangered language\" by UNESCO.\nWhile racial tensions linger, in the December French regional elections, 2015 in Corsica, the pro-autonomy party Pè a Corsica got 35.34% of the vote, winning 24 seats out of 51. Gilles Simeoni, already mayor of Bastia, said: \"It's a victory for Corsica and all the Corsicans. My first thoughts go to all those early campaigners who have battled for our cause for half a century – among them the youngsters, some of whom are in prison. It's a victory for an alternative policy to that which has failed Corsicans for decades. [Corsicans had a] thirst for democracy, economic development and social justice.\" The leader of the pro-independence group \"Corsica Libera\", Jean-Guy Talamoni, added: \"It's been a 40-year-long march to arrive here. Corsica is not just a French administrative constituency – it's a country, a nation, a people.\" He further noted the result of \"those who have never accepted French rule... and have never ceased to fight for the survival of the Corsican nation\" and also called for amnesty for \"political prisoners\" and \"those still in hiding.\"\n\nNegotiations were imminent for the creation of a single Corsican region by 2018 that would merge the executive with its two départements. Republicans leader Nicolas Sarkozy said before the vote that \"Mr Talamoni does not want the French Republic? Well, the French Republic does not want Mr Talamoni. This is France.\" Following the election, the former FLNC's Jean-Pierre Susini said: \"This is the culmination of 40 years of struggle. I have always called for independence but after 200 years of (French) colonialism...the nationalists have an enormous amount of work to do.\" He added: \"We have only two years before us. We must not disappoint, otherwise the valets of colonialism will take back control.\" The election was said to play a part in the rise of nationalist sentiment.\n\nOn 24 December in the poor neighbourhood of Jardins de l'Empereur, firefighters were ambushed by unidentified \"hooded youths\" with iron bars and baseball bats, resulting in injuries to two firefighters and a police officer. A local official, François Lalanne, said a fire was deliberately lit in the area and when the emergency services arrived they were attacked. An unnamed fireman said that about 20 men tried to break the windows of their truck with bars and bats. According to \"Corse Matin\", the firefighters were told \"Sales Corses de merde, cassez-vous, vous n'êtes pas chez vous ici!\" (Dirty shitty Corsicans, go fuck yourselves, you are not in your home here!). On 25 December, a Muslim prayer hall in Jardins de l'Empereur was burned with at least part of a Quran set on fire. It was raided by crowds the next day after accusations that the firefighters were attacked by local Arab residents.\n\nOn 27 December, following the initial arson, as well as a consequent protest ban, several hundred people marched in Corsica, though they avoided the affected neighbourhood, instead rallying in other areas. Previous marches had seen slogans such as : \"Arabs get out!\" On the day, they also rejected accusations that their rally was racist and chanted: \"We fight against scum, not against Arabs!\" and \"We aren't thugs, we aren't racists!\" Police were also deployed around Jardins de l'Empereur, home to many immigrants, to prevent any clashes.\n\nTwo men in their 20s were arrested for the initial attack and were due to be charged.\n\nPrime Minister Manuel Valls said the attack was \"an unacceptable desecration,\" while Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve pledged that the perpetrators of the attacks on the firefighters and the prayer hall would be identified and arrested. He further commented that there was no place for \"racism and xenophobia\" in France. The French Council of the Muslim Faith denounced the violence. A ban was issued on protests in the mostly Muslim neighbourhood until at least 4 January 2016.\n\nPresident of the Corsican Assembly Jean-Guy Talamoni blamed the \"imported\" ideology of the National Front and claimed the protests and arson were anethema to Corsican nationalism, which had established the Corsican Republic. He also said the perpetrators tended to support the National Front and were not nationalists. In response the National Front issued a statement that read \"the unacceptable violence which shook Ajaccio on 25 December is the unfortunately expected consequence of lax and weak politics, which leaves neighbourhoods to become no-go areas where representatives of the emergency services are assaulted daily.\" Corsica's administrator Christophe Mirmand said: \"This behaviour must stop. It hurts Corsica's image.\"\n\nOlivier de Germay, Bishop of Ajaccio, condemned the violence, stating that \"those who commit violent acts in the name of the Christian faith are fooling themselves.\"\n\nEugène Gherardi, a professor of Corsican culture and history, shares the view that xenophobic forms of nationalism reached the island through the National Front. However, Emmanuel Martin of the Institute for Economic Studies in Europe noted that the protesters were chanting in Corsican and displaying the island's flag, theorising that the alleged xenophobia would be stronger in Corsica where some locals already believe that their homeland has been colonised by the French.\n\n"}
{"id": "54729261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54729261", "title": "2017 Bojangles' Southern 500", "text": "2017 Bojangles' Southern 500\n\nThe 2017 Bojangles' Southern 500, the 68th running of the event, was a Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series race held on September 3, 2017 at Darlington Raceway in Darlington, South Carolina. Contested over 367 laps on the egg-shaped oval, it was the 25th race of the 2017 Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series season.\n\nDarlington Raceway is a race track built for NASCAR racing located near Darlington, South Carolina. It is nicknamed \"The Lady in Black\" and \"The Track Too Tough to Tame\" by many NASCAR fans and drivers and advertised as \"A NASCAR Tradition.\" It is of a unique, somewhat egg-shaped design, an oval with the ends of very different configurations, a condition which supposedly arose from the proximity of one end of the track to a minnow pond the owner refused to relocate. This situation makes it very challenging for the crews to set up their cars' handling in a way that is effective at both ends.\n\nKyle Larson was the fastest in the first practice session with a time of 28.415 seconds and a speed of .\n\nKyle Busch was the fastest in the final practice session with a time of 28.373 seconds and a speed of .\n\nKevin Harvick scored the pole for the race with a time of 27.669 and a speed of .\n\nStage 1\n\"Laps:\" 100\n\nStage 2\n\"Laps:\" 100\n\nStage 3\n\"Laps:\" 167\n\n\nNBC Sports covered the race on the television side. Rick Allen, two–time Darlington winner Jeff Burton and Steve Letarte had the call in the booth for the race. As part of the throwback weekend, Ken Squier, Ned Jarrett and Dale Jarrett also called a portion of the race. Dave Burns, Marty Snider and Kelli Stavast reported from pit lane during the race.\n\nThe Motor Racing Network had the radio call for the race, which was simulcast on Sirius XM NASCAR Radio. Dave Moody called the race from a Billboard outside of turn when the field raced through turns 1 and 2, and Mike Bagley had the call of the race atop of the Darlington Raceway Club outside of turn 3 when the field raced through turns 3 and 4 \n\n"}
{"id": "24743259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24743259", "title": "464 BC Sparta earthquake", "text": "464 BC Sparta earthquake\n\nThe Sparta earthquake of 464 BC destroyed much of Sparta, a city-state of ancient Greece. Historical sources suggest that the death toll may have been as high as 20,000, although modern scholars suggest that this figure is likely an exaggeration. The earthquake sparked a revolt of the helots, the slave class of Spartan society. Events surrounding this revolt led to an increase in tension between Sparta and their rival Athens and the cancellation of a treaty between them. After the troops of a relief expedition dispatched by conservative Athenians were sent back with cold thanks, Athenian democracy itself fell into the hands of reformers and moved toward a more populist and anti-Spartan policy. Therefore, this earthquake is cited by historical sources as one of the key events that led up to the First Peloponnesian War.\n\nAccounts of the earthquake and its consequences are based on only a few often unreliable historical sources, specifically the writings of Strabo, Pausanias, Plutarch, and Thucydides. It is difficult to judge the exact epicenter and magnitude of the earthquake, as the science of seismology had not been developed and the historical sources are few, but it has been described as 'medium to large' by historians. It likely occurred due to vertical movement on a fault by the Taygetus Mountains. A 1991 study attempted to locate the fault responsible for the event and estimate the magnitude of the earthquake based on satellite imagery and fieldwork. The authors of the study conclude that if the 464 BC event took place along the fault scarp that they identify, its magnitude would have been approximately 7.2 on the surface wave magnitude scale.\n\nContemporary sources estimate the dead at 20,000, although modern scholars have expressed doubt about that figure, suggesting that it may be exaggerated. They question whether such a large death toll could have happened in a city which at the time was relatively small and spread out, with most buildings being one floor and constructed from wood or sun-baked brick. Buildings such as these would be unlikely to result in the large casualty figures ancient sources suggest. The lack of detailed population records, coupled with flight of survivors to other areas, may have contributed to the uncertainty, as it can today. In such a catastrophic quake, it is also unlikely that a number of the anecdotal tales from the time could be true, such as the Spartan king Archidamus leading the Spartan army out of the city to safety. Regardless of the exact death toll, there was some destruction, and the helots, the slave class in Spartan society, took advantage of this moment to rise in rebellion.\n\nThe aftermath of the earthquake contributed to a growing distrust between Sparta and the increasingly powerful city-state of Athens. According to Thucydides, the ancient Greek chronicler of the Peloponnesian War, Sparta had already decided to invade Attica when the earthquake struck. In the aftermath of the earthquake, the helots and various Messenian subjects of Sparta revolted; Sparta invoked the aid of other Greek cities to put down the rebellion, which were obliged to help in accordance with the alliance. Athens, whose aid the Spartans sought because of their \"reputed experience in siege operations,\" sent approximately 4,000 hoplites under the leadership of Cimon, but this contingent was sent back to Athens, while those from other cities were allowed to stay. By Thucydides's account (\"History of the Peloponnesian War\", I.101–102), the Spartans were concerned that the Athenians would switch sides and assist the helots; from the Spartan perspective, the Athenians had an \"enterprising and revolutionary character,\" and by this fact alone posed a threat to the oligarchic regime of Sparta. The Athenians were insulted, and therefore repudiated their alliance with Sparta. Once the uprising was put down, some of the surviving rebels fled to Athens, which settled them at Naupactus on the strategically important Corinthian Gulf. The alliance would never be revived, as disagreements between Sparta and Athens would continue to intensify until the outbreak of war in 460 BC. Given that the Helot population seized upon the earthquake to rebel against the Spartans, they reformed their society after the Helots were gained control of again, becoming extremely austere.\n\n"}
{"id": "4289744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4289744", "title": "Albion Fairs", "text": "Albion Fairs\n\nAlbion Fairs was the general name for the second wave of East Anglian Fairs, running from 1978 until 1982. There were further fairs in the same tradition most years until the end of the 1980s.\n\nThe East Anglian Fairs began with the Barsham Medieval Faire in 1972, and developed into a significant feature of rural counterculture in Britain, drawing on aspects of pop festival culture, the reinvention of traditional rural or nomadic seasonal gatherings, and a back-to-the-land early green ethos. The voluntary organisers worked under the name of the East Anglian Arts Trust (EAAT). Barsham Faire ran annually on the August Bank Holiday until 1976. In 1976 EAAT revived the Bungay May Horse Fair, which was also held in 1977. An ad hoc group of fair organisers and crew participated in the Eye Show in August 1977. This led to the formation, in the winter of 1977/1978, of Albion Fairs.\n\nSome events used the spelling Fayre or Faire.\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s a fairly vibrant if not quite as accessible successor to the Fairs in the region was organised as the mostly biennial gatherings of Dance Camp East.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10968598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10968598", "title": "Andre Chad Parenzee", "text": "Andre Chad Parenzee\n\nAndre Chad Parenzee (born c. 1971) is an HIV-positive Australian man convicted of three counts of endangering human life by exposing others to the risk of infection through unprotected sex as he claimed to them that he was HIV seronegative. In one instance he actually transmitted the virus.\n\nBorn in Cape Town, South Africa, Parenzee moved to Adelaide, Australia at the age of 15, becoming a chef and settling in Port Pirie. In January 2006, he was convicted on 3 counts of endangering life; the basis of the conviction was that he had unprotected sex with three women over a period of several years, despite being aware of the transmissibility of HIV, and had transmitted HIV to one of them.\n\nIn March 2006, Parenzee appealed his conviction, claiming that the existence and virulence of HIV have not been proven. He was supported by testimony from Valendar Turner and Eleni Papadopulos-Eleopulos, two AIDS denialists from The Perth Group who question the existence of HIV. A number of prominent researchers, including Robert Gallo, testified to the scientific consensus that HIV exists and causes AIDS. Ultimately, the judge rejected the qualifications and testimony of the AIDS dissident witnesses, finding that there is \"no longer any genuine scientific dispute\" that HIV exists and causes AIDS. Parenzee's appeal was denied. Parenzee's lawyer, Kevin Borick, stated that he planned to appeal to a three judge panel.\n\nThe first woman involved, known in court documents as \"Ms KC\", bore Parenzee two children (one in 1990 and one in 1994). Parenzee was diagnosed HIV positive on 21 September 1998; he married Ms KC on 7 November 1998, keeping his diagnosis from her, and continuing to have unprotected sex with her. They separated in 2000, at which time Parenzee began cohabiting with \"Ms SMC\", a mother of two, and having unprotected sexual intercourse with her. In July 2001 Parenzee was hospitalized with what he falsely claimed to be cancer, and Parenzee's sister informed Ms SMC that in fact, Parenzee was HIV positive. Ms SMC took an HIV test of her own at that time and was determined to be HIV positive on 20 July 2001.\n\nMs KC did not learn of Parenzee's diagnosis until 21 July 2003, at a hearing over access to their children. She testified that when confronted, he stated that he \"did not give a shit about making [Ms SMC] ill.\"\n\nThe third victim, referred to as \"Ms JB\", had sexual intercourse with Parenzee from September to October 2004. Ms KC let her know that Parenzee was HIV positive by phone on 19 November 2004. Parenzee told her that was a lie; however JB confirmed it was true with Parenzee's mother, and by obtaining documentation from KC.\n\nParenzee's request to try the cases separately was denied. He was tried and convicted on 3 counts of endangering human life on 31 January 2006. His lawyers appealed the case to the Supreme Court of South Australia, claiming a miscarriage of justice, on the basis that there was no proof that HIV existed, could be sexually transmitted, caused AIDS, or could be tested for. At the hearing, the lawyers tried to present two members of the Perth Group, Eleni Papadopulos-Eleopulos and Valendar Francis Turner, as expert witnesses in support of their claims. David Albert Cooper, Martyn Andrew Haydon French, Elizabeth Mara Dax, Dominic Edmund Dwyer, David Llewellyn Gordon, John Martin Kaldor, Robert Gallo, and Peter James McDonald were expert witnesses testifying against the claims.\n\nThe presiding Justice John Sulan found that Papadopulos-Eleopulos lacked training and expertise in the field of biology, and had misrepresented the positions of others in her testimony. His finding was that:\nJustice Sulan also found that \"her qualifications do not provide her with the academic study required to give opinions on medical and scientific matters unrelated to nuclear physics.\" He further noted that she had no practical experience or formal qualifications in virology, epidemiology, electron microscopy, biology or immunology. The judge found that:\nRegarding the Perth Group, the judge found that the Perth Group will use whatever means available to promote debate, including encouragement of persons such as the applicant, to promote their theories in courts of law.\n\nRegarding Dr. Turner, the judge found that his knowledge of the subject matter is limited to reading. \"He has no formal qualifications to give expert opinions about the virus. He has no practical experience in the treatment of viral diseases. He has no practical experience in the disciplines of virology, immunology or epidemiology.\"\n\nDespite the inadmissibility of Turner & Papadopulos-Eleopulos's testimony, the Judge chose to consider the claims of the defence that HIV did not exist, that it was not sexually transmissible, that it did not cause AIDS, and that tests for HIV were unreliable.\n\nThe judge found that, contrary to Turner & Papadopulos-Eleopulos's assertions:\n\nThe judge also denied an extension of time to appeal on the basis that the woman who seroconverted after having sex with Parenzee might have contracted the virus elsewhere, citing studies demonstrating the similarities of the infective strains.\n\nIn September 2007, Parenzee was sentenced to nine years in prison. He will be eligible for parole in five years. The sentencing judge noted that, even at the time of sentencing, Parenzee had not yet come to terms with the damage he had wrought.\n\nIn September 2008, South Australia's Court of Criminal Appeal dismissed Parenzee's application for an extension of time to appeal and his application for leave to appeal, finding both applications incompetent. The finding was 2 to 1; the dissenter, Chief Justice John Doyle, said he would have granted leave to appeal, but would have rejected that final appeal anyway. An application to the High Court was expected; Parenzee was, with time off for good behaviour, eligible for parole in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "22179918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22179918", "title": "Arzamas train disaster", "text": "Arzamas train disaster\n\nThe Arzamas explosion, also known as the Arzamas train disaster, was a railway accident that occurred on June 4, 1988 in Arzamas, Gorky Oblast, Soviet Union, when an explosion at a railway crossing killed 91 people and injured 1,500.\n\nA freight train featuring three goods wagons carrying 118 tons of explosives from Dzerzhinsk to the Kazakh SSR exploded at a railway crossing near the Arzamas-1 train station when hexogen included in the load detonated for unknown reasons, also detonating the other explosives stored in the wagons. The explosion also caused major damage to Arzamas, creating a 26 metre deep crater (85 ft), destroying 151 buildings including 2 hospitals, 49 kindergartens, 14 schools, 69 stores, and around 823 families were left homeless. It destroyed 250 meters of railroad tracks, an electrical substation, some power lines, and damaged the gas pipeline and the railway station.\n\nThe officially accepted cause of the explosion is considered to be violation of the rules of loading and transportation of explosives. Alternative theories by some, including Nizhny Novgorod Oblast governor Gennady Khodyrev, have believed the explosion was planned as a terrorist act or as the actions of foreign special services with the purpose of forcing instability in the Soviet Union. The Arzamas train disaster occurred exactly a year before the Ufa train disaster, one of the deadliest railway accidents in Soviet and Russian history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15944934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15944934", "title": "Bataclan (theatre)", "text": "Bataclan (theatre)\n\nThe Bataclan () is a theatre located at 50 Boulevard Voltaire in the 11th arrondissement of Paris, France. Designed in 1864 by the architect Charles Duval, its name refers to \"Ba-ta-clan\", an operetta by Jacques Offenbach. Since the early 1970s, it has been a venue for rock music.\n\nOn 13 November 2015, 89 people were killed in a coordinated terrorist attack in the theatre.\n\nThe Bataclan originated as a large \"café-concert\" in the Chinoiserie style, with the café and theatre on the ground floor and a large dance hall at first-floor level. Its original name was Grand Café Chinois.\n\nThe French name \"Bataclan\" refers to the Offenbach operetta, but it is also a pun on the expression \"tout le bataclan\" (the \"kit and caboodle\", or \"all that jazz\", or \"the whole nine yards\"), the oldest written use of which predates Offenbach in a journal entry of 11 November 1761 by Charles Simon Favart.\n\nConcerts were held there but it was best known for putting on the vaudevilles of Eugène Scribe, Jean-François Bayard, Mélesville, and Théophile Marion Dumersan.\nThe establishment, designed in 1864 by the architect Charles Duval, opened under the management of André Martin Paris on 3 February 1865 and was later bought by the singer Paulus in 1892. Also in 1892, Buffalo Bill Cody performed there. Over the next several years the building experienced both good and bad luck, and many changes in ownership. New fashions after 1910 led to a restoration of the auditorium and a programme dedicated solely to revues, especially those put on by José de Bérys. Maurice Chevalier had his first theatrical success there, and Édith Piaf also performed there. Inspired by their new successes, the Bataclan troupe took big shows on a South American tour that proved financially disastrous.\n\nIn 1926 the auditorium was sold and transformed into a cinema. A fire broke out in the building in 1933. The original building was partially demolished in 1950 to bring it into compliance with new safety measures then in force. In 1969, the cinema closed and the auditorium again became a \"salle de spectacle\" (usually translated as \"theatre\", occasionally as \"exhibition hall\").\n\nThe venue started booking rock acts in the 1970s, and many famous performers have played there since. Among them are Soft Machine, Kraftwerk, Following the terror attacks on 13 November 2015, during the concert by Eagles of Death Metal, the theatre was closed. Sting reopened the venue with a concert one year following the attack.\n\nThe Bataclan is known today for a very eclectic programme of events, including rock and pop concerts, \"spectacles\", comedy, discos and café-théâtre. Its façade was repainted in its original colours in 2006, but its pagoda roof has been removed. In May 2015, the theatre hosted a \"Who Is Malcolm X\" event, featuring Muslim rappers Médine, Kery James, Disiz and Faada Freddy.\n\nJeff Buckley recorded his EP \"Live from the Bataclan\" there in 1995. Progressive metal band Dream Theater recorded their 1998 live album \"Once in a LIVEtime\" at the Bataclan. The 1972 performance by Lou Reed, John Cale and Nico of the Velvet Underground, long circulated as a bootleg, was officially released in 2004 as \"Le Bataclan '72\". Camel's 2001 live album \"The Paris Collection\" was recorded there.\n\nFor 40 years, Bataclan had Jewish owners, Pascal and Joel Laloux, who sold the theatre to new owners on 11 September 2015. The theatre was a target for anti-Zionist activists, since the venue often held pro-Israel events. One extremist group called \"Army of Islam\" threatened the Bataclan in 2011 because its owners were Jews.\n\nPro-Palestinian activists have protested against the Bataclan's association with pro-Israel activities. A video posted on YouTube shows masked pro-Palestinian militant protesters at the Bataclan in 2008 stating: \"We came here to pass along a small message. Be warned. Next time we won’t be coming here to talk.”\n\nOn 13 November 2015, as part of a series of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist attacks across Paris, three gunmen who were French nationals of Algerian descent conducted a mass shooting at the Bataclan. An Austrian duo, the White Miles, had completed their performance, and the American rock band Eagles of Death Metal were in the midst of their performance when three gunmen wearing suicide belts entered the theatre, firing at people at random, and taking hostages. The police later stormed the theatre, and two gunmen killed themselves during the police raid by detonating suicide vests they were wearing; a third was killed by police gunfire before he could detonate his vest. Two of the attackers, Samy Amimour and Omar Ismaïl Mostefaï, were French citizens. The third attacker, Foued Mohamed-Aggad, was carrying what was thought to be a stolen Syrian passport. As a result of the attacks, 90 people were killed and over 200 were wounded. The band members of Eagles of Death Metal and most of the road crew escaped unharmed, although their merchandise manager was among the fatalities. \n\nIt was discovered shortly after the news broke of the attacks that the American rock band Deftones had members in attendance at the Eagles of Death Metal Show. The lead singer of Deftones, Chino Moreno, was eating dinner nearby with his family. Deftones had been scheduled to perform at the Bataclan the following nights.\n\nIrish rock band U2 had been scheduled to perform two Paris concerts in the days following the attack, including one to be broadcast live on HBO. The French government cancelled the concert and the members of the band went to the Bataclan the day after the attack, leaving bouquets of flowers in memory of the victims. Lead singer Bono offered condolences, and the band pledged to reschedule their Paris shows.\n\nOn 16 November, the Bataclan management issued a statement that stated that the theatre was closed indefinitely. It read, \"No words suffice to express the magnitude of our grief. Our thoughts go to the victims, to the wounded and to their loved ones. Many of you have wanted to gather in remembrance at the Bataclan. Unfortunately, the authorities still need to work at the site. We will keep you informed about when it will be possible to assemble in front of the hall. We thank you for your support, which touches us profoundly.\"\n\nEagles of Death Metal issued a statement about the attacks on 18 November, expressing their horror about the attacks and their sympathy with friends and family of the victims, and thanking survivors, authorities, and French and American police. White Miles offered their condolences on that day as well, saying: \"We are happy, but miserable at the same time. Happy, because we are back with our families, who help immensely to make us feel safe again; miserable, because we know that many families have to mourn following the weekend.\" On 8 December, nearly a month after the attacks, Eagles of Death Metal revisited the Bataclan to pay their respects to the victims.\n\nOn 11 February 2016, the Bataclan management announced that the theatre would reopen later in 2016 following a renovation. The first artist scheduled to perform at the reopened club was Pete Doherty on 16 November 2016, one day after the first anniversary of the attacks; however, on 4 November 2016, the Bataclan management announced that Sting would perform an exclusive concert in Paris on 12 November 2016 for the re-opening of the Bataclan (before a maximum capacity of 1497 people including inviting a thousand members of the victims' families).\n\n"}
{"id": "10379544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10379544", "title": "Battle of Ulai", "text": "Battle of Ulai\n\nThe Battle of the Ulai River (called in modern times the Kerkha or Karkheh River), also known as the Battle of Til-Tuba, in c. 653 BCE, was a battle between the invading Assyrians, under their king Ashurbanipal, and the kingdom of Elam, which was a Babylonian ally. The result was a decisive Assyrian victory. Teumman, the king of Elam, and his son Tammaritu were killed in the battle.\n\nUnder the reign of Tiglath-Pileser III (744-27 BCE) through Ashur-uballit II (611 BCE) Assyria led several campaigns across the known world. However Assyria struggled to maintain control over their closest neighbor Babylonia. In a rebellion against one of Sennacherib's (704-681) rule in Babylon, Chaldean Mushezib-Marduk seized the throne and formed a coalition including the Chaldeans, Aramaens, Elamites, and Babylonians and went to battle in 691 near the city of Halule. The coalition was defeated and Sennacherib began a 15-month campaign against Babylonia, sacking palaces and burning temples. Sennacherib's son, Esarhaddon (680-69) attempted to rebuild Babylonia and establish himself as king. His successors Ashurbanipal (668-27) took the throne in Ninevah while Shamash-Shuma-Ukin claimed kingship in Babylon and continued to rebuild it. While Babylonia was technically independent of Assyria, the correspondence between the two brothers suggests that Ashurbanipal saw Babylonia as a vassal state and exercised control over it. Shamash-Shuma-Ukin began looking for a chance to rebel. \nA few years before, Teumman (or Te'uman, 664-653 BCE), a known enemy of Assyria, had usurped the Elamite throne, forcing the sons of Urtaki to flee to Nineveh, the Assyrian capital. Teumman demanded they be extradited, but Ashurbanipal refused. Teumman began a campaign against Na'id Marduk, Assyria's puppet ruler in the Sealand, around 675 BCE. After pushing out the Assyrian influences, Teumman placed Nabo-usalim on the throne in Ur.\n\nTeumman, Nabo-Usallim and Shamash-Shuma-Ukin all formed a coalition and marched against Assurbanipal and met his forces on the banks of the Ulai River (hence the name \"Battle of the Ulai River\") where they were defeated. Teumman was killed in battle and his head was carried to Ninevah and placed on display in Ashurbanipal's court. Ashurbanipal began a 4-year campaign against Babylonia and placed Kandalanu on the throne to replace his brother. Susa, the capital of Elam was sacked in 647 BCE and Elam never regained its power until the Persians conquered it a century later.\n\nThe Battle of Ulai is well known because of the relief carvings found in Ashurbanipal's palace in Ninevah. These chaotic images portray the torture and death of countless enemy soldiers. The severed head of Teumman can be found in nearly every panel including the panel depicting the king's victory banquet. This is consistent with the Assyrian propaganda \"which urges viewers to be both fearful and in awe of Assyrian might\".\n\nGeorges Roux, \"Ancient Iraq\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39120733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39120733", "title": "Boston Marathon bombing", "text": "Boston Marathon bombing\n\nDuring the annual Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013, two homemade pressure cooker bombs detonated 12 seconds and apart at 2:49 p.m., near the finish line of the race, killing three people and injuring several hundred others, including 16 who lost limbs.\n\nThree days later, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) released images of two suspects, who were later identified as Kyrgyz-American brothers Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and Tamerlan Tsarnaev. They killed an MIT policeman, kidnapped a man in his car, and had a shootout with the police in nearby Watertown, during which two officers were severely injured, one of whom died a year later. Tamerlan was shot several times, and his brother ran him over while escaping in the stolen car; Tamerlan died soon after.\n\nAn unprecedented manhunt for Dzhokhar ensued on April 19, with thousands of law enforcement officers searching a 20-block area of Watertown; residents of Watertown and surrounding communities were asked to stay indoors, and the transportation system and most businesses and public places closed. Around 6:00 p.m., a Watertown resident discovered Dzhokhar hiding in a boat in his backyard. He was shot and wounded by police before being taken into custody.\n\nDuring questioning, Dzhokhar said that he and his brother were motivated by extremist Islamist beliefs and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, that they were self-radicalized and unconnected to any outside terrorist groups, and that he was following his brother's lead. He said they learned to build explosive devices from an online magazine of the al-Qaeda affiliate in Yemen. He also said they had intended to travel to New York City to bomb Times Square. On April 8, 2015, he was convicted of 30 charges, including use of a weapon of mass destruction and malicious destruction of property resulting in death. Two months later, he was sentenced to death.\n\nThe 117th annual Boston Marathon was run on Patriots' Day, April 15, 2013. At , two bombs detonated about apart at the finish line on Boylston Street near Copley Square. The first exploded outside Marathon Sports at 671–673 Boylston Street at 2:49:43 p.m. At the time of the first explosion, the race clock at the finish line showed 04:09:43,the elapsed time since the Wave 3 start at 10:40 a.m. The second bomb exploded at 2:49:57 p.m., about 14 seconds later and one block farther west at 755 Boylston Street. The explosions took place nearly three hours after the winning runner crossed the finish line, but with more than 5,700 runners yet to finish.\n\nWindows on adjacent buildings were blown out but there was no structural damage. Runners continued to cross the line until 2:57 p.m.\n\nRescue workers and medical personnel, on hand as usual for the marathon, gave aid as additional police, fire, and medical units were dispatched, including from surrounding cities as well as private ambulances from all over the state. The explosions killed 3 civilians and injured an estimated 264 others, who were treated at 27 local hospitals. At least 14 people required amputations, with some suffering traumatic amputations as a direct result of the blasts.\n\nPolice, following emergency plans, diverted arriving runners to Boston Common and Kenmore Square. The nearby Lenox Hotel and other buildings were evacuated. Police closed a 15-block area around the blast site; this was reduced to a 12-block crime scene on April 16. Boston police commissioner Edward F. Davis recommended that people stay off the streets.\n\nDropped bags and packages, abandoned as their owners fled from the blasts, increased uncertainty as to the possible presence of more bombs. There were false reports of more bombs. An unrelated electrical fire at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library in nearby Dorchester was initially feared to be a bomb.\nThe airspace over Boston was restricted, and departures halted from Boston's Logan International Airport. Some local transit service was halted as well.\n\nThe Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency suggested people trying to contact those in the vicinity use text messaging instead of voice calls because of crowded cellphone lines. Cellphone service in Boston was congested but remained in operation, despite some local media reports stating that cell service was shut down to prevent cell phones from being used as detonators.\n\nThe American Red Cross helped concerned friends and family receive information about runners and casualties. The Boston Police Department also set up a helpline for people concerned about relatives or acquaintances to contact and a line for people to provide information. Google Person Finder activated their disaster service under \"Boston Marathon Explosions\" to log known information about missing people as a publicly viewable file.\n\nDue to the closure of several hotels near the blast zone, a number of visitors were left with nowhere to stay; many Boston-area residents opened their homes to them.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation led the investigation, assisted by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Counterterrorism Center, and the Drug Enforcement Administration, and they named two official suspects. It was initially believed by some that North Korea was behind the attack after escalating tensions and threats with the U.S.\n\nUnited States government officials stated that there had been no intelligence reports suggesting such an attack. Representative Peter King, a member of the House Intelligence Committee, said: \"I received two top secret briefings last week on the current threat levels in the United States, and there was no evidence of this at all.\"\n\nThe father of the two suspects claimed that the FBI had been watching his family, and that they questioned his sons in Cambridge, Massachusetts five times in relation to possible explosions on the streets of Boston.\nEvidence found near the blast sites included bits of metal, nails, ball bearings, black nylon pieces from a backpack, remains of an electronic circuit board, and wiring. A pressure cooker lid was found on a nearby rooftop. Both of the improvised explosive devices were pressure cooker bombs manufactured by the bombers. Authorities confirmed that the brothers used bomb-making instructions found in Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula's \"Inspire\" magazine. After the suspects were identified, \"The Boston Globe\" reported that Tamerlan purchased fireworks from a fireworks store in New Hampshire.\n\nOn April 19, the FBI, West New York Police Department, and Hudson County Sheriff's Department seized computer equipment from the apartment of the Tsarnaevs' sister in West New York, New Jersey. On April 24, investigators reported that they had reconstructed the bombs, and believed that they had been triggered by remote controls used for toy cars.\n\nJeff Bauman was immediately adjacent to one of the bombs and lost both legs; he wrote while in the hospital: \"Bag, saw the guy, looked right at me\". He later gave a detailed description which enabled the photo to be identified and circulated quickly.\n\nAt 5:20 p.m. on April 18, the FBI released images of two suspects carrying backpacks, asking the public's help in identifying them. The FBI said that they were doing this in part to limit harm to people wrongly identified by news reports and on social-media.\nAs seen on video, the suspects stayed to observe the chaos after the explosions, then walked away casually. The public sent authorities a deluge of photographs and videos, which were scrutinized by both authorities and online public social networks.\n\nA few hours after the photos were released, the Tsarnaev brothers shot Sean A. Collier of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Police Department six times in an attempt to steal his gun, which they could not get out because of the holster's retention system. Collier, aged 27, was seated in his police car near the Stata Center (Building 32) on the Massachusetts Institute of Technology campus. He died soon after.\n\nThe brothers then carjacked a Mercedes-Benz M-Class SUV in the Allston-Brighton neighborhood of Boston. Tamerlan took the owner, Chinese national Dun \"Danny\" Meng (), hostage and told him that he was responsible for the Boston bombing and for killing a police officer. Dzhokhar followed them in the green Honda, later joining them in the Mercedes-Benz. Interrogation later revealed that the brothers \"decided spontaneously\" that they wanted to go to New York and bomb Times Square.\n\nThe Tsarnaev brothers forced Meng to use his ATM cards to obtain $800 in cash. They transferred objects to the Mercedes-Benz and one brother followed it in their Honda Civic, for which an all-points bulletin was issued. While the Tsarnaev brothers stopped at a Shell gas station, Meng escaped and ran across the street to the Mobil gas station, asking the clerk to call 911. His cell phone remained in the vehicle, allowing the police to focus their search on Watertown.\n\nShortly after midnight on April 19, Watertown police officer Joseph Reynolds identified the brothers in the Honda Civic and the stolen SUV. A gunfight followed between the brothers and police arriving at the scene on the 100 block of Laurel St. An estimated 200 to 300 rounds of ammunition were fired and at least one further bomb and several \"crude grenades\" were thrown.\n\nAccording to Watertown Police Chief Edward Deveau, the brothers had an \"arsenal of guns.\" Tamerlan ran out of ammunition and threw his empty pistol at Sergeant Jeffrey Pugliese, who tackled him with help from Sergeant John MacLellan. Tamerlan's younger brother Dzhokhar then drove the stolen SUV toward Tamerlan and police who unsuccessfully tried to drag Tamerlan out of his path; the car ran over Tamerlan and dragged him a short distance down the street. Dzhokhar abandoned the car half a mile away and fled on foot. Tamerlan Tsarnaev died at 1:35 a.m. at a Boston hospital.\n\nMassachusetts Bay Transportation Authority Police Officer Richard H. Donohue Jr. was also critically wounded but survived. Boston Police Department officer Dennis Simmonds was injured by a hand grenade and died April 10, 2014. Fifteen other officers were also injured. A later report by Harvard Kennedy School's Program on Crisis Leadership concluded that lack of coordination among police agencies had put the public at excessive risk during the shootout.\n\nOnly one firearm was recovered at the scene, a Ruger 9 mm pistol with a defaced serial number.\n\nRecords on the Honda left at the scene identified the men as two brothers whose family had immigrated to the United States seeking political asylum around 2002: 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev and 19-year-old Dzhokhar \"Jahar\" Tsarnaev. The FBI released additional photos of the two during the Watertown incident. Early on April 19, Watertown residents received automated calls asking them to stay indoors. That same morning Governor Patrick asked residents of Watertown and adjacent cities and towns to \"shelter in place\". Somerville residents also received automated calls instructing them to shelter in place.\n\nA 20-block area of Watertown was cordoned off and residents were told not to leave their homes or answer the door, as officers scoured the area in tactical gear. Helicopters circled the area and SWAT teams in armored vehicles moved through in formation, with officers going door to door. On the scene were the FBI, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Department of Homeland Security, the National Guard, the Boston and Watertown Police departments, and the Massachusetts State Police. The show of force was the first major field test of the interagency task forces created in the wake of the September 11 attacks.\n\nThe entire public transit network and most Boston taxi services were suspended, as was Amtrak service to and from Boston. Logan International Airport remained open under heightened security. Universities, schools, many businesses, and other facilities were closed as thousands of law enforcement personnel participated in the door-to-door manhunt in Watertown, as well as following up other leads, including at the house that the brothers shared in Cambridge, where seven improvised explosive devices were found\n\nThe brothers' father spoke from his home in Makhachkala, Dagestan, encouraging his son to: \"Give up. Give up. You have a bright future ahead of you. Come home to Russia.\" He continued, \"If they killed him, then all hell would break loose.\" On television, Dzhokhar's uncle from Montgomery Village, Maryland, pleaded with him to turn himself in.\n\nDavid Henneberry, a Watertown resident outside the search area, noticed that the tarp was loose on his parked boat on the evening of April 19, two hours after the shelter-in-place order had been lifted. He then saw a body lying inside the boat in a pool of blood. Authorities surrounded the boat and a police helicopter verified movement through a thermal imaging device. The figure inside the boat started poking at the tarp, and police shot at the boat.\n\nAccording to Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis and Watertown Police Chief Deveau, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was shooting at police from inside the boat, \"exchanging fire for an hour\". A subsequent report indicated that the firing lasted for a shorter time. The suspect was found to have no weapon when he was captured. He was arrested at 8:42 p.m. and taken to Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, where he was listed in critical condition with gunshot wounds to the head, neck, legs, and hand.\n\nInitial reports that the neck wound represented a suicide attempt were contradicted by his being unarmed. The situation was chaotic according to a police source quoted by the \"Washington Post\", and the firing of weapons occurred during \"the fog of war\". A subsequent review by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts provided this more specific summary: \"One officer fired his weapon without appropriate authority in response to perceived movement in the boat, and surrounding officers followed suit in a round of 'contagious fire', assuming they were being fired on by the suspect. Weapons continued to be fired for several seconds until on scene supervisors ordered a ceasefire and regained control of the scene. The unauthorized shots created another dangerous crossfire situation\".\n\nUnited States Senators Kelly Ayotte, Saxby Chambliss, Lindsey Graham, and John McCain, and Representative Peter T. King suggested that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, a U.S. citizen, should be tried as an unlawful enemy combatant rather than as a criminal, potentially preventing him from obtaining legal counsel. Others said that doing so would be illegal, including prominent American legal scholar and lawyer Alan Dershowitz, and would jeopardize the prosecution. The government decided to try Dzhokhar in the federal criminal court system and not as an enemy combatant.\n\nDzhokhar was questioned for 16 hours by investigators but stopped communicating with them on the night of April 22 after Judge Marianne Bowler read him a Miranda warning. Dzhokhar had not previously been given a Miranda warning, as federal law enforcement officials invoked the warning's public safety exception. This raised doubts whether his statements during this investigation would be admissible as evidence and led to a debate surrounding Miranda rights.\n\nOn April 22, 2013, formal criminal charges were brought against Tsarnaev in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts during a bedside hearing while he was hospitalized. He was charged with use of a weapon of mass destruction and with malicious destruction of property resulting in death. Some of the charges carry potential sentences of life imprisonment or the death penalty. Tsarnaev was judged to be awake, mentally competent, and lucid, and he responded to most questions by nodding. The judge asked him whether he was able to afford an attorney and he said no; he was represented by the Federal Public Defender's office. On April 26, Dzhohkar Tsarnaev was moved from Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center to the Federal Medical Center at Fort Devens, about from Boston. FMC Devens is a federal prison medical facility at a former Army base where he was held in solitary confinement at a segregated housing unit with 23-hour-per-day lockdown.\n\nOn July 10, 2013, Tsarnaev pleaded not guilty to 30 charges in his first public court appearance, including a murder charge for MIT police officer Sean Collier. He was back in court for a status hearing on September 23, and his lawyers requested more time to prepare their defense. On October 2, Tsarnaev's attorneys asked the court to lift the special administrative measures (SAMs) imposed by Attorney General Holder in August, saying that the measures had left Tsarnaev unduly isolated from communication with his family and lawyers, and that no evidence suggested that he posed a future threat.\n\nJury selection began on January 5, 2015 and was completed on March 3, with a jury consisting of eight men and ten women (including six alternates). The trial began on March 4 with Assistant U.S. Attorney William Weinreb describing the bombing and painting Dzhokhar as \"a soldier in a holy war against Americans\" whose motive was \"reaching paradise\". He called the brothers equal participants.\n\nDefense attorney Judy Clarke admitted that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev had placed the second bomb and was present at the murder of Sean Collier, the carjacking of Dun Meng, and the Watertown shootout, but she emphasized the influence that his older brother had on him, portraying him as a follower. Between March 4 and 30, prosecutors called more than 90 witnesses, including bombing survivors who described losing limbs in the attack, and the government rested its case on March 30. The defense rested as well on March 31, after calling four witnesses.\n\nTsarnaev was found guilty on all 30 counts on April 8. The sentencing phase of the trial began April 21,\nand a further verdict was reached on May 15 recommending that he be put to death. Tsarnaev was sentenced to death on June 24, after apologizing to the victims.\n\nAccording to FBI interrogators, Dzhokhar and his brother were motivated by Islamic beliefs but \"were not connected to any known terrorist groups\", instead learning to build explosive weapons from an online magazine published by al-Qaeda affiliates in Yemen. They further alleged that \"[Dzhokhar and] his brother considered suicide attacks and striking [the Boston Pops Fireworks Spectacular] on the Fourth of July; but ultimately decided to use pressure cooker bombs (capable of remote detonation) and other IEDs.\" Fox News reported that the brothers \"chose the prestigious race as a 'target of opportunity' ... [after] the building of the bombs came together more quickly than expected\".\n\nDzhokhar said that he and his brother wanted to defend Islam from the U.S., accusing the U.S. of conducting the Iraq War and War in Afghanistan against Muslims. A CBS report revealed that Dzhokhar had scrawled a note with a marker on the interior wall of the boat where he was hiding; the note stated that the bombings were \"retribution for U.S. military action in Afghanistan and Iraq\", and called the Boston victims \"collateral damage\", \"in the same way innocent victims have been collateral damage in U.S. wars around the world.\" Photographs of the note were later used in the trial.\n\nSome political science and public policy writers suggest that Islam may have played a secondary role in the attacks. These writers theorize that the primary motives might have been sympathy towards the political aspirations in the Caucasus region and Tamerlan's inability to become fully integrated into American society. According to the \"Los Angeles Times\", a law enforcement official said that Dzhokhar \"did not seem as bothered about America's role in the Muslim world\" as his brother Tamerlan had been. Dzhokhar identified Tamerlan as the \"driving force\" behind the bombing, and said that his brother had only recently recruited him to help.\n\nSome journalists and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's defense attorney have suggested that the FBI may have recruited or attempted to recruit Tamerlan Tsarnaev as an informant.\n\nTamerlan Tsarnaev was born in 1986 in the Kalmyk Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, North Caucasus. Dzhokhar was born in 1993 in Kyrgyzstan, although some reports say that his family claims that he was born in Dagestan. The family spent time in Tokmok, Kyrgyzstan, and in Makhachkala, Dagestan.\nThey are half Chechen through their father Anzor, and half Avar through their mother Zubeidat. They never lived in Chechnya, yet the brothers identified themselves as Chechen.\n\nThe Tsarnaev family immigrated to the United States in 2002 where they applied for political asylum, settling in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Tamerlan Tsarnaev attended Bunker Hill Community College but dropped out to become a boxer. His goal was to gain a place on the U.S. Olympic boxing team, saying that, \"unless his native Chechnya becomes independent\", he would \"rather compete for the United States than for Russia\". He married U.S. citizen Katherine Russell on July 15, 2010 in the Masjid Al Quran Mosque in the Dorchester section of Boston; she was pregnant with their daughter. While initially quoted in a student magazine as saying, \"I don't have a single American friend. I don't understand them,\" a later FBI interview report documents Tamerlan stating it was a misquote, and that most of his friends were American. He had a history of violence, including an arrest in July 2009 for assaulting his girlfriend.\n\nThe brothers were Muslim; Tamerlan's aunt stated that he had recently become a devout Muslim. Tamerlan became more devout and religious after 2009, and a YouTube channel in his name linked to Salafist and Islamist videos. The FBI was informed by the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) in 2011 that he was a \"follower of radical Islam.\" In response, the FBI interviewed Tamerlan and his family and searched databases, but they did not find any evidence of \"terrorism activity, domestic or foreign.\" During the 2012 trip to Dagestan, Tamerlan was reportedly a frequent visitor at a mosque on Kotrova Street in Makhachkala, believed by the FSB to be linked with radical Islam. Some believe that \"they were motivated by their faith, apparently an anti-American, radical version of Islam\" acquired in the U.S., while others believe that the turn happened in Dagestan.\n\nAt the time of the bombing, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was a student at the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth with a major in marine biology. He became a naturalized U.S. citizen on September 11, 2012. Tamerlan's boxing coach reported to NBC that the young brother was greatly affected by Tamerlan and admired him.\n\nTamerlan was previously connected to the triple homicide in Waltham, Massachusetts, on the evening of September 11, 2011, but he was not a suspect at the time. Brendan Mess, Erik Weissman, and Raphael Teken were murdered in Mess's apartment. All had their throats slit from ear to ear with such great force that they were nearly decapitated. The local district attorney said that it appeared that the killer and the victims knew each other, and that the murders were not random. Tamerlan Tsarnaev had previously described murder victim Brendan Mess as his \"best friend.\" After the bombing and subsequent revelations of Tsarnaev's personal life, the Waltham murders case was reexamined in April 2013 with Tsarnaev as a new suspect. Both ABC and \"The New York Times\" have reported that there is strong evidence which implicates Tsarnaev in this triple homicide.\n\nSome analysts claim that the Tsarnaev's mother Zubeidat Tsarnaeva is a radical extremist and supporter of jihad who influenced her sons' behavior. This prompted the Russian government to warn the U.S. government on two occasions about the family's behavior. Both Tamerlan and his mother were placed on a terrorism watch list about 18 months before the bombing took place.\n\nOn April 15, several people who were near the scene of the blast were taken into custody and questioned about the bombing, including a Saudi man whom police stopped as he was walking away from the explosion; they detained him when some of his responses made them uncomfortable. Law enforcement searched his residence in a Boston suburb, and the man was found to have no connection to the attack. An unnamed U.S. official said, \"he was just at the wrong place at the wrong time.\"\n\nOn the night of April 18, two men riding in a taxi in the vicinity of the shootout were arrested and released shortly thereafter when police determined that they were not involved in the Marathon attacks. Another man was arrested several blocks from the site of the shootout and was forced to strip naked by police who feared that he might have concealed explosives. He was released that evening after a brief investigation determined that he was an innocent bystander.\n\nOn May 22, the FBI interrogated Ibragim Todashev in Orlando, Florida, who was a Chechen from Boston. During the interrogation, he was shot and killed by an FBI agent who claimed that Todashev attacked him. \"The New York Times\" quoted an unnamed law enforcement official as saying that Todashev had confessed to a triple homicide and had implicated Tsarnaev, as well. Todashev's father claimed his son is innocent and that federal investigators are biased against Chechens and made up their case against him.\n\nRobel Phillipos (19) was a U.S. citizen of Ethiopian descent living in Cambridge who was arrested and faced with charges of knowingly making false statements to police. He graduated from high school in 2011 with Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.\nDias Kadyrbayev (19) and Azamat Tazhayakov (20) were natives of Kazakhstan living in the U.S. They were Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's roommates in an off-campus housing complex in New Bedford, Massachusetts at which Tsarnaev had sometimes stayed.\n\nPhillipos, Kadyrbayev, Tazhayakov, and Tsarnaev entered the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth in the fall of 2011 and knew each other well. After seeing photos of Tsarnaev on television, the three men traveled to his dorm room where they retrieved a backpack and laptop belonging to Tsarnaev. The backpack was discarded, but police recovered it and its contents in a nearby New Bedford landfill on April 26. During interviews, the men initially denied visiting the dorm room but later admitted their actions.\n\nKadyrbayev and Tazhayakov were arrested by police at the off-campus housing complex during the night of April 18–19. An unidentified girlfriend of one of the men was also arrested, but all three were soon released.\n\nKadyrbayev and Tazhayakov were re-arrested in New Bedford on April 20 and held on immigration-related violations. They appeared before a federal immigration judge on May 1 and were charged with overstaying their student visas. That same day, Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov were charged criminally with:\n\nKadyrbayev and Tazhayakov were indicted by a federal grand jury on August 8, 2013 on charges of conspiracy to obstruct justice for helping Dzhokhar Tsarnaev dispose of a laptop computer, fireworks, and a backpack after the bombing. Each faced up to 25 years in prison and deportation if convicted. Tazhayakov was convicted of obstruction of justice and conspiracy on July 21, 2014.\n\nKadyrbayev pleaded guilty to obstruction charges on August 22, 2014, but sentencing was delayed pending the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling in \"Yates v. United States\". Kadyrbayev was sentenced to six years in prison in June 2015.\n\nTazhayakov pleaded not guilty and went to trial, arguing that \"Kadyrbayev was the mastermind behind destroying the evidence and that Tazhayakov only 'attempted obstruction.'\" Jurors returned a guilty verdict against him, however, and he was sentenced to 42 months in prison in June 2015, which equated to three and a half years. Judge Douglas Woodlock gave a lighter sentence to Tazahayakov than to Kadyrbayev, who was viewed as more culpable. Tazhayakov was released in May 2016 and subsequently deported.\n\nPhillipos was arrested and faced charges of knowingly making false statements to police. He was released on $100,000 bail and placed under house confinement with an ankle monitor. He was convicted on October 28, 2014, on two charges of lying about being in Tsarnaev's dorm room. He later acknowledged that he had been in the room while two friends removed a backpack containing potential evidence relating to the bombing.\n\nPhillipos faced a maximum sentence of eight years' imprisonment on each count. In June 2015, U.S. District Judge Douglas P. Woodlock sentenced him to three years in prison. Phillipos filed an appeal, but his sentence was upheld in court on February 28, 2017.\n\nPhillipos was released from prison in Philadelphia on February 26, 2018 and must serve a three year probation upon his release.\n\nA federal indictment was unsealed against Khairullozhon Matanov on May 30, 2014, charging him with \"one count of destroying, altering, and falsifying records, documents, and tangible objects in a federal investigation, specifically information on his computer, and three counts of making materially false, fictitious, and fraudulent statements in a federal terrorism investigation.\" Matanov bought dinner for the two Tsarnaev brothers 40 minutes after the bombing. After the Tsarnaev brothers' photos were released to the public, Matanov viewed the photos on the CNN and FBI websites before attempting to reach Dzhokhar, and then tried to give away his cell phone and delete hundreds of documents from his computer. Prosecutors said that Matanov attempted to mislead investigators about the nature of his relationship with the brothers and to conceal that he shared their philosophy of violence.\n\nMatanov was originally from Kyrgyzstan. He came to the U.S. in 2010 on a student visa, and later claimed asylum. He attended Quincy College for two years before dropping out to become a taxicab driver. He was living in Quincy, Massachusetts at the time of his arrest, and was a friend of Tamerlan Tsarnaev.\n\nIn March 2015, Matanov pleaded guilty to all four counts. In June 2015, he was sentenced to 30 months in prison.\n\nThree people were killed in the bombing. Krystle Marie Campbell, a 29-year-old restaurant manager from Medford, Massachusetts, was killed by the first bomb. Lü Lingzi, () a 23-year-old Chinese national and Boston University graduate student from Shenyang, Liaoning, and 8-year old Martin William Richard from the Dorchester neighborhood of Boston, were killed by the second bomb.\n\nSean A. Collier, 27 years old, was ambushed by the bombers as he sat in his police car on April 18, at about 10:48 p.m. He was an MIT police officer, and had been with the Somerville Auxiliary Police Department from 2006 to 2009. He died from multiple gunshot wounds.\n\nBoston Police Department officer Dennis Simmonds died on April 10, 2014 from hand-grenade injuries received during the Watertown shootout a year earlier.\n\nAccording to the Boston Public Health Commission, 264 civilians were treated at 27 local hospitals. Eleven days later, 29 remained hospitalized, one in critical condition. Many victims had lower leg injuries and shrapnel wounds, which indicated that the devices were low to the ground. At least 16 civilians lost limbs, at the scene or by amputation in a hospital, and three lost more than one limb.\n\nDoctors described removing \"ball-bearing type\" metallic beads a little larger than BBs and small carpenter-type nails about long. Similar objects were found at the scene. \"The New York Times\" cited doctors as saying that the bombs mainly injured legs, ankles, and feet because they were low to the ground, instead of fatally injuring abdomens, chests, shoulders, and heads. Some victims had perforated eardrums.\n\nMBTA police officer Richard H. Donohue Jr. (33) was critically wounded during a firefight with the bombers just after midnight on April 19. He lost almost all of his blood, and his heart stopped for 45 minutes, during which time he was kept alive by cardiopulmonary resuscitation. \"The Boston Globe\" reported that Donohue may have been accidentally shot by a fellow officer.\n\nMarc Fucarile lost his right leg and received severe burns and shrapnel wounds. He was the last victim released from hospital care on July 24, 2013.\n\nLaw enforcement, local and national politicians, and various heads of state reacted quickly to the bombing, generally condemning the act and expressing sympathies for the victims.\n\nThe One Fund Boston was established by Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick and Boston mayor Thomas Menino to make monetary distributions to bombing victims. The Boston Strong concert at the TD Garden in Boston on May 30, 2013 benefitted the One Fund, which ultimately received more than $69.8 million in donations. A week after the bombing, crowd funding websites received more than 23,000 pledges promising more than $2 million for the victims, their families, and others affected by the bombing. The Israel Trauma Coalition for Response and Preparedness sent six psychologists and specialists from Israel to help Boston emergency responders, government administrators, and community people develop post-terrorist attack recovery strategies.\n\nNumerous sporting events, concerts, and other public entertainment were postponed or cancelled in the days following the bombing. The MBTA public transit system was under heavy National Guard and police presence and it was shut down a second time April 19 during the manhunt.\n\nIn the days after the bombing, makeshift memorials began to spring up along the cordoned-off area surrounding Boylston Street. The largest was located on Arlington Street, the easternmost edge of the barricades, starting with flowers, tokens, and T-shirts. In June, the Makeshift Memorial located in Copley Square was taken down and the memorial objects located there were moved to the archives in West Roxbury for cleaning, fumigation, and archiving.\n\nFive years after the bombing, The Boston Globe reported all of the items from the memorials were being housed in a climate controlled environment, free of charge, by the storage company, Iron Mountain in Northborough, Massachusetts. Some of the items are also being stored in Boston's city archives in West Roxbury.\n\nBoston University established a scholarship in honor of Lü Lingzi, a student who died in the bombing. University of Massachusetts Boston did the same in honor of alumna and bombing victim Krystle Campell.MIT also established a scholarship and erected a sculpture (unveiled on April 29, 2015), both in memory of MIT Police officer Sean Collier.\n\nOne study conducted by the Institute for Public Service at Suffolk University in Boston, Massachusetts, records the mental health and emotional response of various survivors, for three years following the bombing. In doing so, it reviews the kinds of aid that were available in local hospitals and gives advice as to how a person or community may be healed.\n\nThis study also mentions that after realizing the under coverage of people in the city being killed or injured on a daily basis, the city of Boston \"applied for and received a grant from The Rockefeller Foundation to be part of their 100 resilient cities network and to develop a cross cutting resilience strategy\".\n\nHowever, there was rising anti-Muslim sentiment online and locally in the weeks following the bombing, causing distress in the local Muslim community and leaving some afraid of going out.\n\nPresident Barack Obama addressed the nation after the attack. He said that the perpetrators were still unknown, but that the government would \"get to the bottom of this\" and that those responsible \"will feel the full weight of justice\". He ordered flags to half-staff until April 20 on all federal buildings as \"a mark of respect for the victims of the senseless acts of violence perpetrated on April 15, 2013 in Boston, Massachusetts.\"\n\nMoments of silence were held at various events across the country, including at the openings of the New York Stock Exchange, NASDAQ, and NYMEX on the day after the bombing. Numerous special events were held, including marathons and other runs.\n\nThe bombing was denounced and condolences were offered by many international leaders as well as leading figures from international sport. Security measures were increased worldwide in the wake of the attack.\n\nIn China, users posted condolence messages on Weibo in response to the death of Lü Lingzi. Chris Buckley of \"The New York Times\" said \"Ms. Lu's death gave a melancholy face to the attraction that America and its colleges exert over many young Chinese.\" Laurie Burkitt of \"The Wall Street Journal\" said \"Ms. Lu's death resonates with many in China\" due to the one-child policy.\n\nOrganizers of the London Marathon, which was held six days after the Boston bombing, reviewed security arrangements for their event. Hundreds of extra police officers were drafted in to provide a greater presence on the streets, and a record 700,000 spectators lined the streets. Runners in London observed a 30-second silence in respect for the victims of Boston shortly before the race began, and many runners wore black ribbons on their vests. Organizers also pledged to donate US$3 to a fund for Boston Marathon victims for every person who finished the race.\n\nOrganizers of the 2013 Vancouver Sun Run, which was held on April 21, 2013, donated $10 from every late entry for the race to help victims of the bombing at the Boston Marathon. Jamie Pitblado, vice-president of promotions for The Vancouver Sun and The Province, said the money would go to One Fund Boston, an official charity that collected donations for the victims and their families. Sun Run organizers raised anywhere from $25,000 to $40,000. There were over 48,000 participants, many dressed in blue and yellow (Boston colors) with others wearing Boston Red Sox caps.\n\nPetr Gandalovic, ambassador of the Czech Republic, released a statement after noticing much confusion on Facebook and Twitter between his nation and the Chechen Republic. \"The Czech Republic and Chechnya are two very different entities – the Czech Republic is a Central European country; Chechnya is a part of the Russian Federation.\"\n\nSecurity was also stepped up in Singapore in response to online threats made on attacking several locations in the city-state and the Singapore Marathon in December. Two suspects were investigated and one was eventually arrested for making false bomb threats.\n\nThe Russian government said special attention would be paid to security at upcoming international sports events in Russia, including the 2014 Winter Olympics. According to the Russian embassy in the U.S., President Vladimir Putin condemned the bombing as a \"barbaric crime\" and \"stressed that the Russian Federation will be ready, if necessary, to assist in the U.S. authorities' investigation.\" He urged closer cooperation of security services with Western partners but other Russian authorities and mass media blamed the U.S. authorities for negligence as they warned the U.S. of the Tsarnaevs. Moreover Russian authorities and mass media since the spring of 2014 blame the United States for politically motivated false information about the lack of response from Russian authorities after subsequent U.S. requests. As proof a letter from the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) was shown to the members of an official U.S. Congressional delegation to Moscow during their visit. This letter with information about Tsarnaev (including his biography details, connections and phone number) had been sent from the FSB to the FBI and CIA during March 2011.\n\nRepublican U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss and Richard Burr reported that Russian authorities had separately asked both the FBI (at least twice: during March and November 2011) and the CIA (September 2011) to look carefully into Tamerlan Tsarnaev and provide more information about him back to Russia. Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) secretly recorded phone conversations between Tamerlan Tsarnaev and his mother (they vaguely and indirectly discussed jihad) and sent these to the FBI as evidence of possible extremist links within the family. However, while Russia offered US intelligence services warnings that Tsarnaev planned to link up with extremist groups abroad, an FBI investigation yielded no evidence to support those claims at the time. In addition, subsequent U.S. requests for additional information about Tsarnaev went unanswered by the Russians.\n\nOn April 19, 2013, the press-secretary of the head of the Chechen Republic, Ramzan Kadyrov, issued a statement that, inter alia, read: \"The Boston bombing suspects have nothing to do with Chechnya\". On the same day, Kadyrov was reported by \"The Guardian\" to have written on Instagram:\n\nAny attempt to make a link between Chechnya and the Tsarnaevs, if they are guilty, is in vain. They grew up in the U.S., their views and beliefs were formed there. The roots of evil must be searched for in America. The whole world must battle with terrorism. We know this better than anyone. We wish recover to all the victims and share Americans' feeling of sorrow.\n\nAkhmed Zakayev, head of the secular wing of the Chechen separatist movement, now in exile in London, condemned the bombing as \"terrorist\" and expressed condolences to the families of the victims. Zakayev denied that the bombers were in any way representative of the Chechen people, saying that \"the Chechen people never had and can not have any hostile feelings toward the United States and its citizens.\"\n\nThe Mujahideen of the Caucasus Emirate Province of Dagestan, the Caucasian Islamist organization in both Chechnya and Dagestan, denied any link to the bombing or the Tsarnaev brothers and stated that it was at war with Russia, not the United States. It also said that it had sworn off violence against civilians since 2012.\n\nDuring the manhunt for the perpetrators of the bombing, Governor Deval Patrick said \"we are asking people to shelter in place.\" The request was highly effective; most people stayed home, causing Boston, Watertown, and Cambridge to come to a virtual standstill. According to \"Time\" magazine, \"media described residents complying with a 'lockdown order,' but in reality the governor's security measure was a request.\" Scott Silliman, emeritus director of the Center on Law, Ethics and National Security at Duke Law School, said that the shelter-in-place request was voluntary.\n\nThe shelter-in-place directive was criticized by some commentators. Michael Cohen of \"The Observer\" said that Americans have little experience with daily terrorism compared to some countries and \"are more primed to … assume the absolute worst.\" Cohen wrote that it was not the first time dangerous murderers have been on the loose in a large American city (citing Christopher Dorner in 2013 and the Beltway sniper attacks in 2002), but noted that \"lockdown\" measures were not used in those cases. Former congressman and presidential candidate Ron Paul, criticized what he described as a \"military-style takeover of parts of Boston\" during the investigation and wrote that \"this unprecedented move should frighten us as much or more than the attack itself.\"\n\n\"Haaretz\"s Chemi Salev wrote that \"in terms of cost-benefit analysis, from the evil terrorist's point of view, the Boylston Street bombings and their aftermath can only be viewed as a resounding triumph\" since the \"relatively amateurish\" terrorists managed to intimidate a vast number of people and got a maximum amount of publicity. Responding to Salev in \"The New York Times\", Ross Douthat commented that the massive manhunt operation might deter other amateur terrorists, but not hard-core terrorists such as Mohammed Atta. Douthat argued that out-of-the-ordinary measures can only be used when terrorism itself is out-of-the-ordinary: if attacks started to occur more often, people would not be as willing to comply with shelter-in-place commands, yet once a terrorist has been hunted with such an operation, it is hard to justify why such measures should not be taken the next time.\n\nThe National Lawyers Guild and some news outlets questioned the constitutionality of the door-to-door searches conducted by law enforcement officers looking for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.\n\nOn the afternoon of the bombing, the \"New York Post\" reported that a suspect, a Saudi Arabian male, was under guard and being questioned at a Boston hospital. That evening, Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis said that there had not been an arrest. The \"Post\" did not retract its story about the suspect, leading to widespread reports by CBS News, CNN, and other media that a Middle Eastern suspect was in custody. The day after the bombing, a majority of outlets were reporting that the Saudi was a witness, not a suspect.\n\nThe \"New York Post\" on its April 18 front page showed two men, and said they were being sought by the authorities. The two were not the ones being sought as suspects. They were a 17-year-old boy and his track coach. The boy, from Revere, Massachusetts, turned himself over to the police immediately and was cleared after a 20-minute interview in which they advised him to deactivate his Facebook account. \"New York Post\" editor Col Allan stated, \"We stand by our story. The image was emailed to law enforcement agencies yesterday afternoon seeking information about these men, as our story reported. We did not identify them as suspects.\" The two were implied to be possible suspects via crowdsourcing on the websites Reddit and 4chan.\n\nSeveral other people were mistakenly identified as suspects. Two of those wrongly identified as suspects on Reddit were a 17-year-old track star and Sunil Tripathi, a Brown University student missing since March. Tripathi was found dead on April 23 in the Providence River.\n\nOn April 17, the FBI released the following statement:\nThe decision to release the photos of the Tsarnaev brothers was made in part to limit damage done to those misidentified on the Internet and by the media, and to address concerns over maintaining control of the manhunt.\n\nA film about the Boston Marathon bombing and subsequent manhunt, \"Patriots Day\", was released in December 2016. Another film, \"Stronger\", which chronicles survivor Jeff Bauman, was released in September 2017.\n\n\n\nCongressional hearings\n"}
{"id": "32917537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32917537", "title": "Bristol in the English Civil War", "text": "Bristol in the English Civil War\n\nDuring the English Civil War (1642–1651), Bristol was a key port on the west coast of England and considered strategically important by both Royalists and Parliamentarians. Initially, the leadership of Bristol wanted to keep the city neutral in the conflict. In 1642, city officials implored Thomas Essex not to occupy the city with his Parliamentarian forces. The city was weakly defended, and Essex entered without much resistance. During the conflict, Bristol was used as a receiving point for the Royalists to accept reinforcements from Ireland. The town was well fortified by the Frome and Avon rivers, as well as a medieval castle, which had been bought by the corporation when the First English Civil War broke out in 1642, and during the Parliamentary defense, earthen artillery forts.\n\nIn these years, Bristol failed to play the important role that might have been expected from a large and rich port. However, the populace had no relish for a civil war in which men were fighting for reasons which did not fill most citizens of Bristol with any great enthusiasm.\n\nRoyal Fort House was built on the site of two bastions on the inside of the lines and three on the outside which were fought over during the English Civil War. It was the strongest part of the defenses of Bristol, designed by Dutch military engineer Sir Bernard de Gomme. It was one of the few purpose-built defensive works of the war era. The fort was designed as the western headquarters of the Royalist army under Prince Rupert. It was demolished in 1655.\n\nFor Bristol, the central event of the war was the Storming of Bristol by Royalist forces in 1643. The Royalist suffered heavy casualties taking the city, especially among regimental and brigade commanders. After the capture, the city became an important Royalist supply base, and center for communication, administration, and manufacture. The Royalists were dependent on foreign aid and the importation of weaponry. Ships laden with ordnance had to evade Parliamentarian patrols in order to offload their cargo at Bristol.\n\nA typical myth about Bristol during the civil war concerns it capture by Prince Rupert in July 1643. Traditionally it has been accepted that Bristol was attacked by a Royalist army of up to 20,000 men and that William Walker had irresponsibly reduced the garrison to 1,500 infantry and 300 mounted troops, insufficient to man the defensive lines surrounding the city. It is further accepted that these defenses were inadequate and that their weakness was compounded by a serious shortage of ammunition. Despite these problems the Royalists breached the defenses by the chance of discovery of a weak point unknown to the defenders. Once the line was breached, the city was indefensible and the garrison commander, Nathaniel Fiennes, surrendered the city to save his troops and civilian populations; although this account was shown to be inaccurate shortly after the event, it has retained some credibility.\n\nThe following are the major events in Bristol or events effecting Bristol during the English Civil War.\n\n\n\n\nIn the summer of 1645, Royalist forces were defeated by the New Model Army at the Battle of Langport, in Somerset. Following further victories at Bridgwater and Sherborne, Sir Thomas Fairfax marched on Bristol. Prince Rupert returned to organise the defence of the city. The Parliamentary forces besieged the city and after three weeks attacked, eventually forcing Rupert to surrender on 10 September.\n\n"}
{"id": "11168538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11168538", "title": "Cruelty to Animals Act 1849", "text": "Cruelty to Animals Act 1849\n\nThe Cruelty to Animals Act 1849 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (12 & 13 Vict. c. 92) with the long title \"An Act for the more effectual Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.\" \n\nThe Act repealed two previous Acts, the Cruel Treatment of Cattle Act 1822 and the Cruelty to Animals Act 1835, and reiterated the offences of beating, ill-treating, over-driving, abusing and torturing animals with a maximum penalty of £5 and compensation of up to £10.\nThe Act was amended and including a prison sentence for the unlawful killing of any animals covers within the law and expanded by the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876, and repealed by the Protection of Animals Act 1911.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34330266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34330266", "title": "Dakar Series", "text": "Dakar Series\n\nThe Dakar Series is an annual series of rally raid off-road races, organised by the Amaury Sport Organisation. The series groups together events similar in style to the Dakar Rally and was founded in 2008 after the cancellation of the 2008 edition of the rally. \n\n2015:\n- moto winner: Paulo Gonçalves (Honda)\n- auto winner: Orlando Terranova/Bernard Graue (Mini)\n Desafio Guarani: 19-25 July\n- moto winner: Kevin Benavides (Honda)\n- auto winner: Peter Jerie/Laurent Lichtleuchter (Toyota)\n- cancelled\n\n2016:\n- moto winner: Kevin Benavides (Honda)\n\n2017:\n- moto winner: ? (?)\n"}
{"id": "964042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=964042", "title": "Donald Eugene Webb", "text": "Donald Eugene Webb\n\nDonald Eugene Webb (born Donald Eugene Perkins; July 14, 1931 – December 30, 1999) was a career criminal wanted for attempted burglary and the murder of police chief Gregory Adams in the small town of Saxonburg, Pennsylvania on December 4, 1980. It was the first murder in the town's nearly 150-year history.\n\nWebb was a fugitive featured on the FBI's 10 Most Wanted List until 2007, setting a record on that list in 1999, but he was never apprehended. In 2010, his record on that list was superseded by another criminal. The murder of Police Chief Adams was never solved by prosecution of the criminal; it was the longest-running cold case of a police officer in the country. In July 2017, Webb's remains were discovered in Massachusetts on the property of his wife Lillian Webb. She had hidden him in two of her homes for 17 years, until he died of a stroke in 1999.\n\nDonald Eugene Perkins was born in Oklahoma City in 1931. He was raised by his paternal grandfather. Perkins enlisted in the United States Navy, but received a dishonorable discharge.\n\nPerkins legally changed his name to Webb in 1956 in Bristol County, Massachusetts.\n\nWebb worked as a butcher, salesman, restaurant manager, and vending machine repairman. Before 1979, Webb spent extended periods in the Southwest, New England, and on the West Coast. After Webb's disappearance in 1980, his relatives and criminal associates consistently refused to cooperate with investigators.\n\nWebb had married Lillian and they had a son together. In 1981, Webb's wife Lillian lived in South Dartmouth, Massachusetts. She worked as a saleswoman for a now-defunct New Bedford box company. In 1999, it was reported that Lillian, her son, and other relatives of Donald Webb were living in the Boston area.\n\nWebb had convictions for burglary, possession of counterfeit money, possession of a weapon and dangerous instruments, breaking and entering, armed bank robbery, grand larceny and car theft. In the mid-1970s, Webb served a two-year prison term in New York state prison.\n\nThe FBI has considered Webb \"a master of assumed identities\". New York and Pennsylvania police have described Webb as \"an itinerant burglar well versed in the art of criminal impersonation\". Webb was identified by the FBI as an associate of the Patriarca crime family, who made a living robbing banks, jewelry stores, and high-end hotels up and down the East Coast. They fenced the goods through \"the mob\" in Providence, Rhode Island. He was also involved with an organized crime outfit in the Miami area, where he would also fence the goods.\n\nIn 1979, Webb and two accomplices allegedly burglarized suburban Albany homes while posing as sewer and water inspectors. Webb and Frank Joseph Lach, one of the accomplices, were arrested in Colonie, New York. They were charged with attempted burglary, but after their bails were posted (bail of Webb was $35,000), they failed to appear at a December 1979 court date.\n\nFrank Joseph Lach (born November 23, 1940) was closely associated with Webb. Lach is from Cranston, Rhode Island and was believed to be involved with a Massachusetts-based gang responsible for a number of jewel thefts from residences and businesses in the 1960s and 1970s, as well as having ties to organized crime in New England and South Florida.\n\nAlthough the last known connection of Webb and Lach was in Allentown, Pennsylvania in July 1980, Lach was believed to be with Webb when he killed Police Chief Gregory Adams in December 1980 in Saxonburg. (See below)\n\nLach was subsequently wanted by the FBI for interstate flight from justice; he was captured in South Miami, Florida in May 1982. He was extradited to New York, where he was convicted of burglary and bail-jumping. He was paroled in November 1985. In February 1986, he was convicted by a federal jury of conspiracy to transport stolen property interstate, and of driving under the influence and parole violation in June 1996. Lach served time in federal prison and was released in October 2000.\n\nOn December 4, 1980, Gregory B. Adams, a 31-year-old police chief of Saxonburg, Pennsylvania, and nine-year veteran of law enforcement, made a routine traffic stop in the parking lot of Agway Feed Store on Butler Street. Adams used his patrol car to stop the suspect by blocking the exit of the parking lot. When he asked the suspect for his driver's license, the suspect gave fraudulent identity documents and shot Adams. He returned fire, but the shots were not fatal.\n\nThe man believed to be Donald Eugene Webb got out of the car and fought with Adams, disarming him and pistol-whipping him with his own revolver. Witnesses heard fired shots; four \"pop\" noises, presumably from a semiautomatic .25-caliber Colt pistol, and a \"boom\" from Adams' revolver. He was shot once in the arm and once in the chest at close range. By another account, Adams was shot twice in the chest, one bullet collapsing a lung and another tearing through the bottom of his heart. Adams was not wearing his bulletproof vest at the time. The killer took Adams' gun, ran to his patrol car, ripped out its microphone and took the keys before driving away in his own car.\n\nA nearby resident found the mortally wounded Adams, who told her that he did not know his attacker and that he thought he was not going to live. Adams was so badly beaten he was almost unrecognizable. Adams lost consciousness on the way to the hospital and died of his injuries. He was survived by his wife Mary Ann Adams and their two sons, Benjamin and Gregory, Jr. Adams is buried in St. Mary's Cemetery in Herman, Pennsylvania.\n\nA .25-caliber Colt pistol, O-type blood (Webb's blood type), and a New Jersey driver's license bearing the name Stanley John Portas, an alias of Webb and the name of his wife Lillian's late prior husband, were among the evidence found at the murder scene. Portas had died in 1948. Webb is believed to have been in Saxonburg for a planned burglary of a jewelry store. Adams' revolver was later found approximately away along Cornplanter Road in Winfield, Pennsylvania. All six bullets of the weapon had been fired.\n\nA white Mercury Cougar, which Webb had rented, was allegedly used as a getaway car. Two weeks later, it was found abandoned at a Howard Johnson's motel in Warwick, Rhode Island. Significant amounts of O-type blood were found under the steering wheel, suggesting that Webb was wounded by gunfire in the struggle with Adams.\n\nWebb was named as a main suspect in the killing of Chief Adams, and a nationwide manhunt began. He was charged \"in absentia\" with murder, attempted burglary, and unlawful flight to avoid prosecution. A federal arrest warrant was issued for him on December 31. On May 4, 1981, Webb was named as the 375th fugitive to be placed on the FBI's Ten Most Wanted list.\n\nWebb had strong ties to Fall River and New Bedford, Massachusetts, where the last confirmed sighting of him was made by an anonymous tipster in July 1981. It was reported to the Boston FBI office, but Webb had fled by the time investigators arrived. There were later unconfirmed sightings of Webb, or men resembling him, in Massachusetts, Washington, Canada and Costa Rica.\n\nIn January 1990, FBI director William S. Sessions received a letter postmarked January 23 and written by someone claiming to be Webb, asking for forgiveness from Adams' family. The letter suggested he might surrender to authorities, but only if he could talk directly to John Walsh, host of the TV show \"America's Most Wanted\". Walsh said on his show that the FBI's evidence technicians examined the letter and believed it was authentic. Handwriting tests were inconclusive (They have now been discounted as accurate forensic evidence, anyway). On April 1, 1990, a man claiming to be Webb called John Walsh but when asked questions to confirm his identity, was unable to name two of Webb's closest relatives. The call was dismissed as an April Fools' joke. The murder case was featured in an episode of \"Unsolved Mysteries\".\n\nAfter more than 18 years on the list, on September 14, 1999, Webb was noted as the fugitive with the longest tenure on the FBI Ten Most Wanted list, surpassing the previous record held by Charles Lee Herron.\n\nIn April 2005, an unidentified man in Detroit was found using Webb's name, age and social security number. Detroit police tracked the address to a burned-out house in a poor section of town. Authorities considered this a case of identity theft, however unusual.\n\nThe FBI removed Webb from the Ten Most Wanted list on March 31, 2007. He was replaced by Shauntay Henderson. Webb held the record of being on the FBI's wanted list longer than any other fugitive until 2010, when Víctor Manuel Gerena surpassed his record. Although Webb was still a fugitive considered armed and dangerous by the FBI, the significant lack of leads made some investigators believe Webb had died.\n\nOn December 4, 2015, the FBI increased their reward to $100,000 for information leading to the arrest of Webb, or to the location of his remains. Key investigators, including the FBI special agent assigned to finding Webb, believed he was still alive.\n\nOn June 1, 2017, Mary Ann Adams Jones, the police chief's widow (who had remarried), filed a lawsuit for civil damages against Donald Eugene Webb, his wife Lillian Webb, and their son Stanley Webb. FBI investigators had announced that in 2016 they had discovered a secret room hidden behind a closet in the basement of Lillian Webb's home in North Dartmouth, Massachusetts. The room had not existed when Lillian purchased the home. Agents also discovered a cane inside the room, which they believed may have been used by Webb after being shot in the leg by Adams.\n\nOn June 15, 2017, the FBI released newly acquired photographs of Webb taken in the 1970s. They hoped these would aid in gaining the public's assistance in either capturing Webb or locating his remains. Faced with prosecution for harboring a criminal, Lillian Webb arranged to confess to police and the FBI. She told about sheltering Webb, and the strokes he suffered near the end of his life. He had been treated in a Massachusetts hospital under an assumed name for the serious injuries to his leg in 1980.\n\nShe led the FBI to his remains, found buried on the grounds of her Dartmouth home. This was announced on July 17, 2017, when they had been identified by FBI forensic investigators as belonging to Webb. The investigators found that Webb had died in 1999 after suffering multiple strokes. State police documents said that Webb had lived for nearly 17 years hidden by his wife in the two different houses where she lived in that time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32352748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32352748", "title": "Doors Open Saskatoon", "text": "Doors Open Saskatoon\n\nDoors Open Saskatoon is a biannual event held in the City of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada, that gives the public access to many of the city's unique or historically significant buildings. Admission is free of charge. The one day even occurs every two years. The fifth doors open even occurred in Saskatoon in 2011.\n\nOver 20 buildings were included in the 2011 event. Some of the buildings included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43828408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43828408", "title": "Dubai Music Week", "text": "Dubai Music Week\n\nThe Dubai Music Week is a five-day music convention held at the Dubai International Convention Centre in Dubai in mid-September. The convention features a variety of concerts, conferences, and exhibitions. The event was established in 2013 by the Global Gumbo Group (G3) in partnership with the Dubai World Trade Centre (DWTC). The Dubai Music Festival features top international music artists and entertainment companies. It aims to drive innovation across the live entertainment and the music industry in the MENA region.\n\nThe inaugural Dubai Music Week 2013 was presented in association with Dubai Calendar, official Partner Emirates and official sponsor Pepsi. It was the first industry trade show in MENA that brought together major music labels, artists and merchants to exhibit their products and launch initiatives to key industry stakeholders and consumers. Jumeirah Zabeel Saray was the official hotel partner.\n\nSome of the activities included the \"Pepsi Band Slam\", \"The Music Exhibition\", \"Quincy Jones Seminars\", \"Live Concerts\", and \"Midem Music Conference and Workshops\". Pepsi Band Slam, a jamming session included the region's most popular bands competing against each other. Bands from Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and United Arab Emirates represented diversity in local musical talents. Some of the local bands included Nikotin, Run Junction, Adonis, Empty Chair,J-Fam, and Reset String.\n\nThe event was attended by musicians, producers, managers, journalists, labels, app developers and content creators from around the globe. The Michael Jackson Dream Team Seminar hosted Quincy Jones, Rod Temperton, and Bruce Swedien, with music journalist Ben Fong-Torres moderating. The Producers Panel, also MC'd by Fong-Torres, included Quincy Jones, Timbaland, and Will.i.am, who discussed the subject of music production and judged a talent selection competition, the winner receiving a recording and production contract. Five artists were invited to take part in this exclusive showcase: Jay Wud, Hamdan Abri, DD Foxx, Xriss Jor, and Nile.\n\n2013 Concerts\n\n"}
{"id": "7922428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7922428", "title": "Elvis in Concert", "text": "Elvis in Concert\n\nElvis In Concert is a posthumous 1977 TV special starring Elvis Presley. It was Elvis' third and final TV special, following \"Elvis\" (a.k.a. \"The '68 Comeback Special\") and \"Aloha From Hawaii\". It was filmed during Presley's final tour in the cities of Omaha, Nebraska, on June 19, 1977, and Rapid City, South Dakota, on June 21, 1977. It was broadcast on CBS on October 3, 1977, two months after Presley's death. It was transmitted by the BBC in the United Kingdom on June 9, 1978. Unlike the majority of Elvis' programs, it is unlikely to be commercially released on home video and is only available in bootleg form. This is because it showed Elvis near the end of his life when he was overweight and addicted to prescription drugs, and much of his performance reflects his poor health. However, parts of the special were used in the video documentary \"Elvis: The Great Performances\" and the theatrical documentary \"This is Elvis\", both of which were released on home video.\n\nOn June 1, 1977, it was announced that Elvis Presley had signed a deal with CBS for a new television special. It was agreed that CBS would videotape concerts during the summer of 1977. The final special was culled from footage from two performances on June 19, 1977, in Omaha, and June 21, 1977, in Rapid City, although much of the footage from Omaha was considered unusable due to sound and performance problems. This concert has been heavily edited and bootlegs have appeared on auction web sites over the years. The show was shot on NTSC videotape although many film conversions have appeared over the years. The crew also filmed footage of Elvis at the airport in Indianapolis, receiving a gold record from RCA Records for his final album, \"Moody Blue,\" on June 26. This is the last known footage of Elvis ever filmed, and he can be seen wearing his favorite DEA jacket.\n\nDuring the special, Presley performs a number of songs spanning his career. During one song, \"Are You Lonesome Tonight?,\" just before Elvis goes into the recitation part of the song, the music is faded down and a devoted female fan is shown talking about her determination to see Elvis live in concert, then it switches back to Elvis after the recitation was finished. This may have been done so that viewers would not have to see Elvis fumbling through the recitation, although this footage was included in the later documentary \"This Is Elvis\" to illustrate his poor condition at the time, and the recitation was left intact on the soundtrack album as well. However, a strong case is made in Darrin Memmer's book \"Elvis Presley - The 1977 CBS Television Special,\" published in 2001 by Morris Publishing, that Elvis regularly played around with the words during the recitation of the song when performing it onstage, rather than it being a case of poor memory. Indeed, a concert recording of Presley similarly joking around during the recitation of \"Are You Lonesome Tonight?\" dating from 1969 has been issued by RCA on numerous occasions. Dubbed the \"Laughing Version\" (due to Elvis breaking into fits of laughter during the recitation), it even made the UK charts after Presley's death; and he also poked fun at the song during his 1968 Comeback Special, pretending to mumble the recitation instead of speaking it.\n\nPresley also sings his much-performed \"My Way,\" although he has to use a lyric sheet on this occasion, despite having performed the song several years through the 1970s without having to refer to a lyric sheet. Presley also left both of his then-current singles, “Moody Blue” and “Way Down,” off the setlist; earlier in the tour, Presley had forgotten the lyrics to \"Moody Blue\" when attempting to perform it in North Carolina on February 20. Due to multiple audience requests the following night (also in North Carolina), Presley performed Moody Blue once again for the first and last time live and complete, lyrics in hand, the only time he would do so in his lifetime.\n\nAccording to Roy Carr and Mick Farren in \"Elvis: The Illustrated Record\", CBS officials considered postponing broadcast of the special in hopes of obtaining better performance footage of Presley, but his death in August 1977 cancelled this plan. Its broadcast received mixed reaction; Carr and Farren condemned it as a \"travesty\", adding, \"Had it been shown during his lifetime, it would have caused more irrevocable damage to what was left of his career than almost a decade of starring in third-rate movies.\"\n\nA misconception regarding \"Elvis in Concert\" stems from a statement broadcast by Presley's father, Vernon Presley at the program's conclusion (and also included on the soundtrack album) in which he told viewers that they had just witnessed Elvis' final performance. In fact, Presley made five more concert appearances before giving what would be his final show in Indianapolis, Indiana, on June 26. However, the CBS special was Elvis' last professionally recorded concert. The special actually contains two messages by Elvis' father: one taped in a hotel room during the tour in June when Elvis was still alive, and the other taped in the back office of Graceland shortly after his death, where Vernon thanks the many people who sent letters and cards after Elvis' death.\n\nAllmusic called it Presley's worst, saying, \"it's hard to believe that CBS-TV actually would have aired the show if Presley hadn't died two months later, making it his final recorded performance (and making his records big sellers again).\" The fan site Elvis Information Network deemed the program \"a challenging special to watch... The pudginess of his face and his substantial girth is a long way from the panther like sleekness exhibited in \"\", a documentary about Presley released in 1970.\"\n\nIt was the highest rated prime time program of the week upon its airing, with a 33.0 Nielsen rating representing 24.1 million homes.\n\nThis special has never been released on VHS or DVD, and Elvis' estate has issued a statement saying that they have \"no plans\" to release the special, due to the fact that Elvis was visibly \"far from his best in the way he looked and the way he performed\".\n\nFootage from this special has, however, appeared elsewhere on home video: the performances of \"Are You Lonesome Tonight\", \"Love Me\" and \"My Way\" were used in 1981's \"This Is Elvis\", and the performance of \"Unchained Melody\" (which was not featured on the original CBS telecast) appeared in the 1990 home video release \"The Great Performances, Volume One: Center Stage\".\n\n\n\nRCA Records released a soundtrack album in conjunction with the television special's broadcast. The album augments the televised performances with a second album of additional recordings made during the Omaha and Rapid City concerts. The concert soundtrack album was released in October 1977 and reached #5 on the Billboard album charts. The album, however, omitted many of the features from the TV show; including some of the fans' comments, audio of the stage setup and souvenir sales, the fan's comment during \"Are You Lonesome Tonight?\", and Vernon Presley's comment during \"Can't Help Falling in Love\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4695985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4695985", "title": "Emergency Communities", "text": "Emergency Communities\n\nEmergency Communities was a volunteer organization which formed after Hurricane Katrina in 2005. It provided meals and other relief to residents and emergency responders, first in Mississippi, then in Louisiana. Emergency Communities ran sites in St. Bernard Parish, Plaquemines Parish, and Orleans Parish's Lower Ninth Ward, and then closed its doors on Thanksgiving of 2007. Nonprofit organization lowernine.org took the reins with regard to Emergency Communities' rebuild work, and continues to work on Eldorado Street rebuilding homes for residents of this devastated community. As of June 2009, lowernine.org has rebuilt twenty homes, in addition to working on hundreds of projects large and small across the community.\nEmergency Communities began with assistance from the International Humanities Center, which provided 501[c](3) fiscal sponsorship. Many key Emergency Communities volunteers met at the New Waveland Cafe & Clinic in Waveland, Mississippi. This cafe provided meals, medical services and free goods for local residents. On 1 December 2005, the café closed its location, which was located in the parking lot of Fred's Department Store on U.S. Route 90 in Waveland. In November, Emergency Communities was incorporated. By 12 December the group had begun serving meals in a parking lot in Arabi, Louisiana, just outside New Orleans. This operation, dubbed the Made With Love Café, continued through June 2006. It provided up to 1,400 meals per day to government workers, relief workers and returning residents in and around St. Bernard Parish, the civil parish where the café was located. The site, formerly an off-track betting parlor, became recognizable by its large tents and geodesic dome.\n\nOver the course of its two years, Emergency Communities' sites hosted over 4,000 unique volunteers, including approximately 300 from AmeriCorps/NCCC or others supported by grants from the Corporation for National and Community Service. \nThe organization also raised over $10 million in donations for the relief effort, including from Oxfam, the Red Cross, the United Way, and hundreds of individuals across the country. Its major corporate sponsors included Sanderson Farms Chicken, Organic Valley, and Domino Sugar. Together, its volunteers served over 350,000 meals to over 50,000 unique residents, and gutted and helped rebuild hundreds of homes. Among the additional services it provided over this period were laundry, daycare, food, clothing and household goods distribution, naturopathic healthcare, including massage and therapy, and warm, welcoming places to recover from the trauma of the storm.\n\nOn 1 June 2006, Emergency Communities shut down its outdoor operation in St. Bernard Parish. As part of its exit strategy the nonprofit Community Center of St Bernard in Arabi, was founded. Using its Community Connections Model, the Center currently helps more than 5,300 clients every year receive basic resources like food, clothes, legal aid, basic medical care, computer classes, financial literacy programs, senior citizen employment training, income tax preparation, information and referrals, and much more. On the same date, Emergency Communities served its first meal at a new location in Buras, Louisiana.\nOn June 30, 2007, Emergency Communities closed the Y-Cafe in Buras and redeployed its resources to the Ninth Ward in New Orleans. A new organization, People for Plaquemines, carried on the mission of rebuilding lower Plaquemines Parish.\n\nEmergency Communities no longer accepts volunteers on the Gulf Coast. However, its sister organization, lowernine.org, is continuing the work of rebuilding in the Lower Ninth Ward.\n\n"}
{"id": "35219190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35219190", "title": "FAN:dom Con", "text": "FAN:dom Con\n\nFANdom Con was an annual three-day multigenre convention held during November at the Emerald Coast Convention Center in Fort Walton Beach, Florida.\n\nThe convention typically offered card game tournaments, concerts, cosplay contest, masquerade ball, panels, rave, vendors, videogame tournaments, and workshops. FANdom Con during the 2015 convention held a blood drive.\n\nFANdom Con was organized due to the lack of an anime convention in the Pensacola, Florida area. University of West Florida students decided to form a student organization, named Con-Quest, whose primary purpose would be to organize the convention. FANdom Con would be multigenre and cover anime, science fiction, and video games. It was estimated that 200-300 people would attend, but the convention instead attracted 752. The first event had a budget of $300 and UWF students entered for free.\n\nFANdom Con moved to the Emerald Coast Convention Center in Fort Walton Beach, Florida starting in 2014 due to growth. Due to low attendance and a website credit card issue, the convention ended 2016 $15,000 below its budget. Due to several issues, the convention suspended operations in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "43298351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43298351", "title": "Great Daffodil Appeal", "text": "Great Daffodil Appeal\n\nThe Great Daffodil Appeal is Marie Curie's biggest annual fundraising campaign. Every March, millions of people across the UK support this fundraising event by giving a small donation to wear a daffodil pin. This makes it one of the UK’s most recognisable charity appeals. Money raised through the appeal helps Marie Curie provide free care and support to people living with a terminal illnesses.\n\nThe first Great Daffodil Appeal took place in 1986 with volunteers collecting donations and handing out fresh daffodils.\n\nIn 1995, Marie Curie replaced fresh flowers with fabric daffodil pins. Three million were given out and £1.2 million was donated. In 2005, the charity used the term ‘Great Daffodil Appeal’ for the first time.\n\nIn 2011, actress Alison Steadman appeared in the charity’s first TV advertising campaign for the appeal. Alison has continued her support for the appeal, appearing in TV ads in 2012,2014 and 2015, as well as the 2016 radio advert with actor Dominic West.\n\nIn 2014/15, the charity provided care to more than 40,700 people with terminal illnesses, and is the largest provider of hospice beds outside the NHS.\nThe millions raised by the Great Daffodil Appeal over the years have enabled Marie Curie to provide more free hands-on care to people living with a terminal illness, usually in their own homes or at one of the charity’s nine hospices.\n\nDuring the 2015 Great Daffodil Appeal, more than 22,000 collectors took on 34,000 collections.\n\nAs part of the 2016 appeal, supporters are also being encouraged to raise funds by doing something they love, such as hosting a bake sale or quiz night.\n\nLinda Robson\n\nThe Saturdays\n\nJon Culshaw\n\nChuckle Brothers\n\nHugh Grant\n\nChris Kamara\n\nStephen Mangan\n\n"}
{"id": "7489494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7489494", "title": "Greek Food Festival (Tallahassee)", "text": "Greek Food Festival (Tallahassee)\n\nThe Greek Food Festival is a festival held in mid-October in Tallahassee, Florida, United States and hosted by the Holy Mother of God Greek Orthodox Church.\n\nAs in many Greek festivals in the U.S., this festival is part of Tallahassee's diversity of cultures. The goal is to give the community a taste of Greek food, Greek music, Greek culture, Greek dancing, and entertainment. At Greek Festivals you will typically find Greek gourmet food, Greek folk music - usually performed by Greek bands, cultural exhibitions including artifacts from Greece and dances performed in costumes of old tradition, and dancing for the public under Greek tunes. It is a community-building event for the parish.\nTraditional Greek foods like spanakopita, tzatziki, baklava, dolmades, tsoureki, kothropita, skordalia, melitzanosalata, melomakarona, kakavia soup, kapamas, and kourabiedes are made.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7411011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7411011", "title": "Haifa International Film Festival", "text": "Haifa International Film Festival\n\nThe Haifa International Film Festival is an annual film festival that takes place every autumn (between late September and late October), during the week-long holiday of Sukkot, in Haifa, Israel. \nThe festival was inaugurated in 1983 and was the first of its kind in Israel. Over the years, it has become the country's major cinematic event.\n\nThe Haifa International Film Festival attracts a wide audience of film-goers and media professionals from Israel and abroad. Throughout the week, special screenings are held of c.170 new films. Apart from movies screened around the clock at seven theaters, the festival features open-air screenings. Film categories include feature films, documentaries, animation, short films, retrospectives and tributes.\n\nThe Board of Directors is composed of film and culture professionals and public figures. The festival is underwritten by the City of Haifa, the Ministry of Education, the Israeli Film Council, and the European Union, as well as commercial companies.\n\n"}
{"id": "59682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59682", "title": "Heysel Stadium disaster", "text": "Heysel Stadium disaster\n\nThe Heysel Stadium disaster (, ; ; ; ) occurred on 29 May 1985 when mostly Juventus fans escaping from a breach by Liverpool fans were pressed against a collapsing wall in the Heysel Stadium in Brussels, Belgium, before the start of the 1985 European Cup Final between the Italian and English clubs. 39 people—mostly Italians and Juventus fans—were killed and 600 were injured in the confrontation.\n\nApproximately an hour before the Juventus-Liverpool final was due to kick off, Liverpool supporters charged at Juventus fans and breached a fence that was separating them from a \"neutral area\". The cause of the rampage is disputed: many accounts, including Liverpool's official website, attribute blame to the Italian fans for sparking the violence, but this claim is contested by other eye-witnesses and has been criticized for being unsubstantiated. Juventus fans ran back on the terraces and away from the threat into a concrete retaining wall. Fans already standing near the wall were crushed; eventually the wall collapsed, allowing others to escape. Many people climbed over to safety, but many others died or were badly injured. The game was played despite the disaster, with Juventus winning 1–0.\n\nThe tragedy resulted in all English football clubs being placed under an indefinite ban by UEFA from all European competitions (lifted in 1990–91), with Liverpool being excluded for an additional three years, later reduced to one, and fourteen Liverpool fans found guilty of manslaughter and each sentenced to three years' imprisonment. The disaster was later described as \"the darkest hour in the history of the UEFA competitions\".\n\nIn May 1985, Liverpool were the defending European Champions' Cup winners, having won the competition after defeating Roma in the penalty shootout in the final of the previous season. Again they would face Italian opposition, Juventus, who had won, unbeaten, the 1983–84 Cup Winners' Cup. Juventus had a team comprising many of Italy's 1982 FIFA World Cup winning team–who played for Juventus for many years–and their playmaker Michel Platini was considered the best footballer in Europe, being named Footballer of The Year by \"France Football\" magazine for the second year in a row in December 1984. Both teams were placed in the two first positions in the UEFA club ranking at the end of the last season and were regarded by the specialist press as the best two sides on the continent at the time. Both teams had contested the 1984 European Super Cup four months before, finishing with victory for the Italian side by 2–0.\n\nDespite its status as Belgium's national stadium, Heysel was in a poor state of repair by the time of the 1985 European Final. The 55-year-old stadium had not been sufficiently maintained for several years, and large parts of the stadium were literally crumbling. For example, the outer wall had been made of cinder block, and fans who did not have tickets were seen kicking holes in it to get in. Liverpool players and fans later said that they were shocked at Heysel's abject condition, despite reports from Arsenal fans that the ground was a \"dump\" when Arsenal had played there a few years earlier. They were also surprised that Heysel was chosen despite its poor condition, especially since Barcelona's Camp Nou and Santiago Bernabéu in Madrid were both available. Juventus president Giampiero Boniperti and Liverpool CEO Peter Robinson urged UEFA to choose another venue, claiming that Heysel was not in any condition to host a European Final, especially a European Final involving two of the largest and most powerful clubs in Europe. However, UEFA refused to consider a move.\n\nThe stadium was crammed with 58,000–60,000 supporters, with more than 25,000 for each team. The two ends behind the goals comprised all-standing terraces, each end split into three zones. The Juventus end was O, N and M and the Liverpool end was X, Y and Z as deemed by the Belgian court after the disaster. However, the tickets for the Z section were reserved for neutral Belgian fans in addition to the rest of the stadium. This meant the Juventus fans had more sections than the Liverpool fans with the Z section occupied by neutrals which is thought to have heightened prematch tensions. The idea of the large neutral area was opposed by both Liverpool and Juventus, as it would provide an opportunity for fans of both clubs to obtain tickets from agencies or from ticket touts outside the ground and thus create a dangerous mix of fans.\n\nAt the time Brussels, like the rest of Belgium, already had a large Italian community, and many expatriate Juventus fans bought the section Z tickets. Added to this, many tickets were bought up and sold by travel agents, mainly to Juventus fans. A small percentage of the tickets ended up in the hands of Liverpool fans.\n\nAt approximately 7 p.m. local time, an hour before kick-off, the trouble started. The Liverpool and Juventus supporters in sections X and Z stood merely yards apart. The boundary between the two was marked by temporary chain link fencing and a central thinly policed no-man's land. Hooligans began to throw stones across the divide, which they were able to pick up from the crumbling terraces beneath them.\n\nAs kick-off approached, the throwing became more intense. Several groups of Liverpool hooligans broke through the boundary between section X and Z, overpowered the police, and charged at the Juventus fans. The fans began to flee toward the perimeter wall of section Z. The wall could not withstand the force of the fleeing Juventus supporters and a lower portion collapsed.\n\nContrary to reports at the time, and what is still assumed by many, the collapse of the wall did not cause the 39 deaths. Instead, the collapse relieved pressure and allowed fans to escape. Most died of suffocation after tripping or being crushed against the wall before the collapse. A further 600 fans were also injured. Bodies were carried out from the stadium on sections of iron fencing and laid outside, covered with giant football flags. As police and medical helicopters flew in, the down-draught blew away the modest coverings.\n\nIn retaliation for the events in section Z, many Juventus fans then rioted at their end of the stadium. They advanced down the stadium running track to help other Juventus supporters, but police intervention stopped the advance. A large group of Juventus fans fought the police with rocks, bottles and stones for two hours. One Juventus fan was also seen firing a starting gun at Belgian police.\n\nDespite the scale of the disaster, UEFA officials, Belgian Prime Minister Wilfried Martens, Brussels Mayor Hervé Brouhon, and the city's police force felt that abandoning the match would have risked inciting further trouble and violence, and the match eventually kicked off after the captains of both sides spoke to the crowd and appealed for calm.\n\nJuventus won the match 1–0 thanks to a penalty scored by Michel Platini, awarded by Swiss referee Daina for a foul against Zbigniew Boniek.\n\nAt the end of the game the trophy was given in front of the stadium's Honor Stand by the confederation president Jacques Georges to Juventus captain Gaetano Scirea. Due to collective hysteria generated by the massive invasion of the pitch by journalists and fans at the end of the match, and the chants of fans of both teams in the stands, some Italian club players celebrated the title in the middle of the pitch among them and in front of their fans in the M section, while some Liverpool players applauded their fans between the X and Z sections, the stadium's section affected.\n\nThe blame for the incident was laid on the fans of Liverpool FC. On 30 May official UEFA observer Gunter Schneider said, \"Only the English fans were responsible. Of that there is no doubt.\" UEFA, the organiser of the event, the owners of Heysel Stadium and the Belgian police were investigated for culpability. After an 18-month investigation, the dossier of top Belgian judge Marina Coppieters was finally published. It concluded that blame should rest solely with the English fans. \n\nThe British police undertook a thorough investigation to bring to justice the perpetrators. Some 17 minutes of film and many still photographs were examined. \"TV Eye\" produced an hour-long programme featuring the footage and the British press also published the photographs.\n\nA total of 34 people were arrested and questioned with 26 Liverpool fans being charged with manslaughter – the only extraditable offence applicable to events at Heysel. An extradition hearing in London in February–March 1987 ruled all 26 were to be extradited to stand trial in Belgium for the death of Juventus fan Mario Ronchi. In September 1987 they were extradited and formally charged with manslaughter applying to all 39 deaths and further charges of assault. Initially, all were held at a Belgian prison but over the subsequent months judges permitted their release as the start of the trial became ever more delayed.\n\nThe trial eventually got underway in October 1988, with three Belgians also standing trial for their role in the disaster: Albert Roosens, the head of the Belgian Football Association, for allowing tickets for the Liverpool section of the stadium to be sold to Juventus fans; and two police chiefs - Michel Kensier and Johann Mahieu - who were in charge of policing at the stadium that night. Two of the 26 Liverpool fans were in custody in Britain at the time and stood trial later. In April 1989, 14 fans were convicted and given three-year sentences, that were half suspended for five years, allowing them to return to the UK. After Belgian prosecutors appealed the sentences as too lenient, an appeal took place in Spring 1990 that increased the sentences of 11 fans (to five or four years), with two having their sentences upheld and one being acquitted.\n\nPressure mounted to ban English clubs from European competition. On 31 May 1985, British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher asked the FA to withdraw English clubs from European competition before they were banned, but two days later, UEFA banned English clubs for \"an indeterminate period of time\". On 6 June, FIFA extended this ban to all worldwide matches, but this was modified a week later to allow friendly matches outside of Europe to take place. In December 1985 FIFA announced that English clubs were also free to play friendly games in Europe, though the Belgian government banned any English clubs playing in their country.\n\nThough the English national team was not subjected to any bans, English club sides were banned indefinitely from European club competitions, with Liverpool being provisionally subject to a further three years suspension as well. In April 1990, following years of campaigning from the English football authorities, UEFA confirmed the reintroduction of English clubs (with the exception of Liverpool) into its competitions from the 1990–91 season onward; in April 1991 UEFA's Executive Committee voted to allow Liverpool back into European competition from the 1991–92 season onward, a year later than their compatriots, but two years earlier than initially foreseen. In the end, all English clubs served a five-year-ban, while Liverpool were excluded for six years.\n\nAccording to former Liverpool striker Ian Rush, the institutional relationships between both clubs and their fans improved during his career in Italy.\n\nThe following clubs were denied entry to European competitions during this period:\nThe number of places available to English clubs in the UEFA Cup would however have been reduced had English teams been eliminated early in the competition. By the time of the readmittance of all English clubs except Liverpool in 1990–91, England was only granted one UEFA Cup entrant (awarded to the league runners-up); prior to the ban, they had had four entry slots, a number not awarded to England again until the 1994–95 UEFA Cup. Welsh clubs playing in the English league system, who could qualify for the European Cup Winners' Cup through winning the Welsh Cup, were unaffected by the ban.\n\nIn the meantime, many other clubs missed out on a place in the UEFA Cup due to the return of English clubs to European competitions only being gradual – in 1990 the league had no UEFA coefficient points used to calculate the number of teams, and even though Manchester United won the Cup Winners' Cup in the first season of returning in 1991, it took four more years for England to build up the points to the previous level.\n\nLiverpool's additional year of exclusion from Europe meant that there was no English representation in the 1990–91 European Cup, as they were 1989–90 Football League champions. Due to the weak coefficient, Football League Cup winners Nottingham Forest also missed out on UEFA Cup places in 1990–91, along with Tottenham Hotspur and Arsenal.\n\nThe teams who missed out on the 1991–92 UEFA Cup for the same reason were Sheffield Wednesday, Crystal Palace and Leeds United. In 1992–93, Arsenal and Manchester City were unable to take part. In 1993–94, the 'missing' teams were Blackburn Rovers and Queens Park Rangers, and the final season of fewer teams gaining entry was 1994–95, when Leeds United missed out.\n\nAfter Heysel, English clubs began to impose stricter rules intended to make it easier to prevent troublemakers from attending domestic games, with legal provision to exclude troublemakers for three months introduced in 1986, and the Football (Offences) Act introduced in 1991.\n\nSerious progress on legal banning orders preventing foreign travel to matches was arguably not made until the violence involving England fans (allegedly mainly involving neo-Nazi groups, such as Combat 18) at a match against Ireland on 15 February 1995 and violent scenes at the 1998 FIFA World Cup. Rioting at UEFA Euro 2000 saw introduction of new legislation and wider use of police powers – by 2004, 2,000 banning orders were in place, compared to fewer than 100 before Euro 2000.\n\nThe main reforms to English stadiums came after the Taylor Report into the Hillsborough disaster in which 96 people died in 1989. All-seater stadiums became a requirement for clubs in the top two divisions while pitchside fencing was removed and closed-circuit cameras have been installed. Fans who misbehave can have their tickets revoked and be legally barred from attending games at any English stadium.\n\nThe Heysel Stadium itself continued to be used for hosting athletics for almost a decade, but no further football matches took place in the old stadium. In 1994, the stadium was almost completely rebuilt as the King Baudouin Stadium. On 28 August 1995 the new stadium welcomed the return of football to Heysel in the form of a friendly match between Belgium and Germany. It then hosted a major European final on 8 May 1996 when Paris Saint-Germain defeated Rapid Vienna 1–0 to win the Cup Winners' Cup.\n\nIn 1985, a memorial was presented to the victims at the Juventus headquarters in Piazza Crimea, Turin. The monument includes an epitaph written by Torinese journalist Giovanni Arpino. Since 2001 it has been situated in front of the current club's headquarters in Corso Galileo Ferraris.\n\nIn 1986 the band Revolting Cocks, founded in part by Al Jourgensen of Ministry, released a song by the name of \"38\", in commemoration to the deaths of this tragic event on the album \"Big Sexy Land\". \n\nA memorial service for those killed in the disaster was held before Liverpool's match with Arsenal at Anfield on 18 August 1985, their first fixture after the disaster. However, according to \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", it was \"drowned out\" by chanting.\n\nIn 1991, a memorial monument for the 39 victims of the disaster, the only one on Italian soil, was inaugurated in Reggio Emilia, the hometown of the victim Claudio Zavaroni, in front of Stadio Mirabello: every year the committee \"Per non dimenticare Heysel\" (In order not to forget Heysel) holds a ceremony on 29 May with relatives of the victims, representatives of Juventus, survivors and various supporters clubs from various football clubs, including Inter Milan, AC Milan, Reggiana and Torino.\nDuring Euro 2000, members of the Italian team left flowers on the site, in honour of the victims.\n\nOn 29 May 2005, a £140,000 sculpture was unveiled at the new Heysel stadium, to commemorate the disaster. The monument is a sundial designed by French artist Patrick Rimoux and includes Italian and Belgian stone and the poem \"Funeral Blues\" by Englishman W. H. Auden to symbolise the sorrow of the three countries. Thirty-nine lights shine, one for each who died that night.\n\nJuventus and Liverpool were drawn together in the quarter-finals of the 2005 Champions League, their first meeting since Heysel. Before the first leg at Anfield, Liverpool fans held up placards to form a banner saying \"amicizia\" (\"friendship\" in Italian). Many of the Juventus fans applauded the gesture, although a significant number chose to turn their backs on it. In the return leg in Turin, Juventus fans displayed banners reading \"Easy to speak, difficult to pardon: murders\" and \"15-4-89. Sheffield. God exists\", the latter a reference to the Hillsborough disaster, in which 96 Liverpool fans were killed in a crush. A number of Liverpool fans were attacked in the city by Juventus ultras.\n\nBritish composer Michael Nyman wrote a piece called \"Memorial\" which was originally part of a larger work of the same name written in 1985 in memory of the Juventus fans who died at Heysel Stadium.\n\nOn Wednesday 26 May 2010, a permanent plaque was unveiled on the Centenary Stand at Anfield to honour the Juventus fans who died 25 years earlier. This plaque is one of two permanent memorials to be found at Anfield, along with one for the 96 fans killed in the Hillsborough disaster in 1989.\n\nIn May 2012, a Heysel Memorial was unveiled in the J-Museum at Turin. There is also a tribute to the disaster's victims in the club's \"Walk of Fame\" in front of the Juventus Stadium. Two years later Juventus' officials announced a memorial in the Continassa headquarter.\n\nIn February 2014, an exhibition in Turin was dedicated both to the Heysel tragedy and Superga air disaster. The name of the exhibition was \"\"Settanta angeli in un unico cielo – Superga e Heysel tragedie sorelle\" (70 angels in the one same heaven – Superga and Heysel sister tragedies) and gathered material from 4 May 1949 and 29 May 1985.\n\nIn May 2015, during a Serie A match between Juventus and Napoli at Turin, Juventus fans held up placards to form a banner saying \"+39 Rispetto\"\" (\"respect +39\" in Italian) including the names of the victims of the disaster.\n\nOn 12 November 2015 Italian Football Federation (FIGC), Juventus' representatives led by Mariella Scirea and J-Museum president Paolo Garimberti and members of the Italian victims association held a ceremony in front of the Heysel monument in King Baudouin Stadium for the 30th anniversary of the event. The following day, FIGC president Carlo Tavecchio announced the retirement of \"Squadra Azzurra\"'s number 39 shirt prior to the friendly match between Italy and Belgium.\nThe 39 people killed were 32 Italians (including two minors), four Belgians, two French fans and one from Northern Ireland.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7754990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7754990", "title": "Il Ballo del Doge", "text": "Il Ballo del Doge\n\nIl Ballo del Doge (\"The Doge’s Ball\") is a Venetian masquerade ball, one of the many events held annually during the Carnival of Venice. The ball itself is held in the 15th-century Venetian palace of Palazzo Pisani Moretta, situated on the Grand Canal in Venice. The ball's name derives from the title of the elected heads (\"Doge\", \"Duke\" in English) who ruled Venice up until the fall of the Venetian republic in the 18th century. Every year the ball is attended by around four hundred guests dressed in period costume and masked. \n\nThe event is a reconstruction of an 18th-century masquerade ball and includes a meal of Venetian cuisine. Over the years the entertainment has included performances by opera singers, musicians, burlesque artists and characters from the Commedia dell'Arte.\n\nIl Ballo del Doge was born in Venice in 1994, and takes place every year in Venice during the Carnival. Every edition of Il Ballo has a different theme that takes inspiration from the childlike dreams of her inventor, Antonia Sautter, fashion designer and luxury events manager in Venice and worldwide. \nThe Press, the Media and the Guests that have succeeded one another throughout the years defined it as the most sumptuous, refined and exclusive masquerade event in the world, and one of the one-hundred things everyone should do at least once in their lifetime. \nIl Ballo del Doge has been described by \"Vanity Fair\" as \"one of the most exclusive parties in the world.\" Guests have included members of European, Middle Eastern and Asian royal families, celebrities, and leaders in international business and finance.\n\nIl Ballo del Doge was born in Venice in 1994, and takes place every year in Venice during the Carnival. Every edition of Il Ballo has a different theme that takes inspiration from the childlike dreams of her inventor, Antonia Sautter, fashion designer and luxury events manager in Venice and worldwide. \nThe iconic Palazzo Pisani Moretta is the renowned location that, overlooking the Grand Canal, hosts the event that has reached its XXV edition. \nThe Press, the Media and the Guests that have succeeded one another throughout the years defined it as the most sumptuous, refined and exclusive masquerade event in the world, and one of the one-hundred things everyone should do at least once in their lifetime. \nThroughout the years, Il Ballo del Doge, the most famous signature event by Antonia Sautter, has become an extraordinary production that goes beyond the simple party and a true international happening, celebrated by jet setters, celebrities and all dream seekers, thanks to the great consensus gained edition after edition. \nThe Guests, wearing the costumes designed and hand-made by Antonia Sautter in her Atelier, which hosts over 1.500 creations she has realised over the years, reach the Palace by water, thus immediately immerging themselves in a fantastic world made of luxurious decorations, set designs created specifically for every edition’s theme, seamless artistic spectacles with over a hundred performers, refined cuisine and drinks, music, dances and itinerary entertainment until late in the night. \n\nIl Ballo del Doge celebrated his twenty-fifth edition on Saturday, February 10th, 2018 and, for the occasion, the event had even more resonance than ever. The edition has been titled “Rebirth & Celebration” the set designs, the shows, the menu and every moment of the event were dedicated to the theme of the constant renewal of rebirth and the celebration of emotions, creativity and passion.\n\nIl Ballo del Doge is covered by the international press: TV programmes, newspapers and magazines from all over the world follow the event every year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2541931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2541931", "title": "Jakarta International Java Jazz Festival", "text": "Jakarta International Java Jazz Festival\n\nJakarta International Java Jazz Festival (JJF) is one of the largest jazz festivals in the world and arguably the biggest in the Southern Hemisphere, held in Jakarta, Indonesia. The annual jazz festival is held every early March and was designed to be one of the largest jazz festivals globally. It was held for the first time in 2005, when approximately 125 groups and 1,405 artists performed in 146 shows. The first festival was attended by 47,500 visitors during its three-day stretch. The festival, which is also known as Java Jazz, was founded by Indonesian businessman Peter F. Gontha.\nDate: March 5–7, 2005<br>\nVenue: Jakarta Convention Center, Senayan<br>\nTheme: \"Bringing the World to Indonesia\"<br>\nNumber of visitors: ± 35.000<br>\nNumber of stages: 11\n\n\nDate: March 4–6, 2006<br>\nVenue: Jakarta Convention Center, Senayan<br>\nTheme: \"Bringing the World to Indonesia\"<br>\nNumber of visitors: ± 40.000<br>\nNumber of stages: ?\n\n\nDate: March 2–4, 2007<br>\nVenue: Jakarta Convention Center, Senayan<br>\nTheme: \"Bringing the World Together\"<br>\nNumber of visitors: ± 40.000<br>\nNumber of stages: 15\n\n\nDate: March 7–9, 2008<br>\nVenue: Jakarta Convention Center, Senayan<br>\nTheme: \"Taste the Spirit of Jazz\"<br>\nNumber of visitors: ± 45.000<br>\nNumber of stages: 19\n\n\nDate: March 6–8, 2009<br>\nVenue: Jakarta Convention Center, Senayan<br>\nTheme: \"It's a Festival for All\"<br>\nNumber of visitors: ± 70.000<br>\nNumber of stages: 19\n\n\nDate: March 5–7, 2010<br>\nVenue: Jakarta International Expo, Kemayoran<br>\nTheme: \"Jazzin' Up Remarkable Indonesia\"<br>\nNumber of visitors: ± 60.000<br>\nNumber of stages: 22\n\n\nDate: March 4–6, 2011<br>\nVenue: Jakarta International Expo, Kemayoran<br>\nTheme: \"Harmony Under One Nation in Remarkable Indonesia\"<br>\nNumber of visitors: ± 110.000<br>\nNumber of stages: 18\n\n\nDate: March 2–4, 2012<br>\nVenue: Jakarta International Expo, Kemayoran<br>\nTheme: \"Where Jazz Finds a Home\"<br>\nNumber of visitors: ± 123.000<br>\nNumber of stages: 18\n\n\nDate: March 1–3, 2013<br>\nVenue: Jakarta International Expo, Kemayoran<br>\nTheme: \"Jazz Up the World\"<br>\nNumber of visitors: ± 115.000<br>\nNumber of stages: 17\n\n\nDate: February 28–March 2, 2014<br>\nVenue: Jakarta International Expo, Kemayoran<br>\nTheme: \"Bringing the World to Indonesia\"\n\n\nDate: March 6–8, 2015<br>\nVenue: Jakarta International Expo, Kemayoran\n\nand many more\nDate: March 4–6, 2016<br>\nVenue: Jakarta International Expo, Kemayoran\n\nand many more\nDate: March 3–5, 2017<br>\nVenue: Jakarta International Expo, Kemayoran\n\nDate: March 2–4, 2018<br>\nVenue: Jakarta International Expo, Kemayoran\n\n\nLine-up\n\n"}
{"id": "35295039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35295039", "title": "Jersey International Air Display", "text": "Jersey International Air Display\n\nThe Jersey International Air Display is an air show which is held every year on the island of Jersey, in the Channel Islands. It normally consists of one air display and two static displays - one at the airport and one in a park in St. Helier.\n\nIt is a non-profit making event, and relies upon sponsorship and government funding. The main display can be watched by the public, free of charge.\n\nSome of the aircraft carry out displays over Guernsey, as part of the Guernsey Air Display (formerly the Guernsey Battle of Britain Air Display), on the same day.\n\nRegular performers include the Red Arrows, RAF Falcons parachute display team, and the Battle of Britain Memorial Flight.\n\nNotable appearances include;\n\nIn 1997, Mike Higgins became the display organiser.\n\nIn 2009, HMS Ocean (L12) was present, and participated in the event.\n\nThe 2011 air display was canceled, due to poor visibility, shortly before it was due to start. Most aircraft which were due to take part had already arrived on the island.\n\n"}
{"id": "738440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=738440", "title": "Julie Gregory", "text": "Julie Gregory\n\nJulie Joell Gregory (born May 16, 1969 in Columbus, Ohio) is an American author of \"Sickened: The Memoir of a Munchausen by Proxy Childhood\", an autobiographical account of the Münchausen syndrome by proxy abuse she suffered as a child.\n\nAccording to \"Sickened\", Gregory's mother frequently took her to various doctors, coaching her to act sicker than she was and exaggerating her symptoms, and demanding increasingly invasive procedures to diagnose the girl's imaginary illnesses. At home, her mother fed Gregory a diet based on foods a doctor had said Gregory shouldn't have, administered prescription medicine erratically, sometimes in double doses, and filled her days with strenuous physical labor. According to Gregory, her mother even became upset when one doctor would not perform open heart surgery on her daughter. Also, in the book, Gregory mentions being told by her mother that matches were suckers to eat.\n\nWhen Gregory finally realized what her mother was doing to her, she attempted to tell several people about the situation, but those she told either expressed disbelief or paid no attention. Only upon telling her work counselor, a professional bound to disclose allegations of abuse to authorities, was the abusive behavior of her parents finally realized by others.\n\nIn addition, \"My Father's Keeper\" recounts allegations of physical and emotional abuse inflicted by Gregory's father.\n\nJulie Gregory starred in the film \"I Didn’t Think You Didn’t Know I Wasn’t Dead\" by Columbus, Ohio, independent filmmaker Jim Bihari.\n\n"}
{"id": "3550689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3550689", "title": "Las Madrinas Ball", "text": "Las Madrinas Ball\n\nLas Madrinas Ball is a debutante ball held in Los Angeles, California by Las Madrinas (Spanish, \"the Godmothers\"), a nonprofit organization founded in 1933 to provide financial support to Children's Hospital Los Angeles and its medical research programs. The Las Madrinas Ball has been described as \"the oldest and most prestigious\" debutante ball in the Los Angeles area and as \"the most impressive debutante ball in Southern California\". It is held in December each year and is the traditional starting event of the Los Angeles social season.\n\nThe sponsoring organization, Las Madrinas, was founded on October 11, 1933 with 65 founding members including descendants of Californio land-grant families and local wealthy families, mostly from areas like Pasadena and Hancock Park. The organization's mission was to raise funds for what was then called the Convalescent Home of the Children's Hospital by putting on an annual charity ball. Las Madrinas held its first charity ball two months later, on December 15, 1933, at the Biltmore Hotel. In 1939 the format was transformed into a debutante ball. The ball was suspended during World War II and resumed in 1945. Historically the debutantes in the Las Madrinas Ball were required to come from families of \"money and breeding and social position.”\n\nFor the first 25 years press photography was banned; the ban was lifted in 1958 to permit Life Magazine to cover the event.\n\n"}
{"id": "49783799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49783799", "title": "List of J-pop concerts held outside Asia", "text": "List of J-pop concerts held outside Asia\n\nJapan has the second-biggest music industry in the world, although 80 percent of sales are attributed to physical formats. Due to the numerous record companies present in Japan, launching music streaming services has grown difficult, with YouTube being one of the only prominent streaming services for Japanese music, within and outside the country. Most of the appeal of \"homegrown pop idols\" restricts access to most Japanese music to the domestic market.\n\nThis is a list of J-pop (Japanese pop, rock, etc.) concerts and live appearances held outside of Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "21661552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21661552", "title": "Literary Death Match", "text": "Literary Death Match\n\nLiterary Death Match is a reading series co-created in 2006 by Todd Zuniga, Elizabeth Koch, and Dennis DiClaudio. The series features four readers who read their own writing for seven minutes or less, and are then critiqued by three judges (oftentimes actors, comedians, authors, musicians or dancers) in the categories of literary merit, performance and intangibles. The winner is then decided by a literary-skewed, game show-type finale to decide who wins the Literary Death Match crown.\n\nThe \"Literary Death Match\" occurred regularly in New York City, San Francisco and London, and was produced in a total of 37 cities around the world. In the United States: Los Angeles, Chicago, Boston, Minneapolis–Saint Paul, Portland, Kansas City, Austin, San Diego, Iowa City, Miami, Orlando, Denver, Tulsa, Seattle, Raleigh, and Dallas. In Canada: Calgary, Toronto, Montreal, and Vancouver. And internationally: Dublin, Paris, Edinburgh, Beijing, Glasgow, Vilnius and Shanghai. On September 7, 2011, the event presented its 1,000th participant in Glasgow (Cargo Publishing's Allan Wilson).\n\nIn the United States, the event featured readers Tom Perrotta (author of Election, Little Children), Daniel Handler (a.k.a. Lemony Snicket) and \"The Believer\" editor Heidi Julavits and judges like Pulitzer Prize winners Richard Russo and Jennifer Egan, 24's Mary Lynn Rajskub, supermodel Paulina Porizkova, and the musician Moby.\n\nIn Europe, the event featured readers Joe Dunthorne (author of Submarine), Esther Freud (Hideous Kinky), Nikesh Shukla (C4 Comedy Labs' Kabadasses creator), comedy writers David Quantick and Robert Popper, and judges Rich Fulcher (The Mighty Boosh), model-turned-author Sara J. Stockbridge, comedian Josie Long, Sichuan chef Fuchsia Dunlop, Kaiser Chiefs drummer Nick Hodgson and Irish musician Cathy Davey.\n\nIn 2008, \"Literary Death Match\" was named \"Best Scribbler Smackdown\" by the \"San Francisco Bay Guardian\" \"Best of the Bay\" awards. In 2010, Interview Magazine said \"Events like Literary Death Match are helping to revitalize the coolitude of the printed word.” \n\n"}
{"id": "24272028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24272028", "title": "London 2010 Festival of Stamps", "text": "London 2010 Festival of Stamps\n\nThe London 2010 Festival of Stamps is a yearlong series of events to mark the centenary of the accession of King George V to the British throne.\n\nKing George V was an enthusiastic and distinguished philatelist, and President, then Patron, of the Royal Philatelic Society London.\n\nThe festival will include a variety of philatelic or stamp themed events including the London 2010 International Stamp Exhibition, an exhibition at the Guildhall Art Gallery titled \"Empire Mail: George V and the GPO\" as well as events at the British Museum, the British Library, Marylebone Cricket Club Museum, Wimbledon Lawn Tennis Museum, Bletchley Park, Bath Postal Museum and Twickenham Rugby Museum.\n\nEvents are being co-ordinated by The British Postal Museum & Archive.\n\n"}
{"id": "13725339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13725339", "title": "Minehead Hobby Horse", "text": "Minehead Hobby Horse\n\nIn the coastal town of Minehead, located in the southwest English county of Somerset, there is a folk custom on May Day entailing the parading of a brightly decorated hobby horse around the locality.\n\nThe origins of the custom are unknown, some say it was used to scare off vikings to prevent attacks, although it was first described in 1830, but a record in a ledger of 1792 mentions paid 5s to hobby horse.\n\nThe custom takes place during the evenings of the first three days of May, and involves the hobby horse perambulating the port of Minehead. The hobby horse measures eight feet in length and three feet in breadth, and consists of a frame covered in a cloth that has been painted with brightly coloured roundels and decorated with ribbons affixed along the top. The wording \"Sailors Horse\" is written in large capital letters across the side of the cloth. The head of the man carrying the horse protrudes from the middle of the frame; he wears a painted mask with a crested conical hood affixed with coloured ribbons. A tail made from rope is also affixed to the horse. The folklorist R. W. Patten observed that \"if it were not for the tail, the whole contraption would resemble not so much a horse as a ship, and this perhaps is the key to the riddle\".\n\nThe Minehead hobby horse custom was first recorded in 1830.\nThe folklorist E. C. Cawte suggested that the Minehead hobby horse custom may originally have been conducted around Christmas time before being transposed to May Day. As evidence, he noted that the majority of hobby horse customs in Britain—such as the Mari Lwyd in southern Wales and the hoodening of Kent—were associated with Christmas.\n\nUp until 1913, there was only one recorded hobby horse in active use within the local area. The tradition was temporarily halted during the First World War, although in that period some local children made their own variant of the hobby horse. \nDuring the 1920s a second horse was reported as being in use, known as the Dunster Horse; Cawte thought that this was likely a copy of that at Minehead.\nCawte also found two independent witnesses who reported that in living memory there had been a hobby horse custom at nearby Woodcombe.\n\nThe second horse was incorporated into the custom during the 1960s, initially known as the Alcombe Horse after Alcombe, where it was housed. In 1967 the Alcombe Horse troupe introduced a team of Gullivers, and in 1973 they painted the words \"Minehead Horse\" on the side of the hobby horse. \n\nAs of the 1970s, there was a second horse known as the Town Horse, which was owned by a man known as L. Pidgeon who lived in Alcombe; this hobby horse was brought to dance outside of the Hobby Horse Hotel with a team of Morris Men.\nIn 1974, Patten stated that there had been a third hobby horse, the Dunster Horse, which had \"died out\" about fifty years previously but which had recently been revived.\nIn the 1970s, Patten observed that the tradition \"does not appear to have altered in essentials\" from its early accounts.\n\nMinehead is located eighty miles away from the Cornish coastal town of Padstow, which has a similar May Day custom involving the procession of a hobby horse. The folklorist Christina Hole stated that while the Minehead hobby horse was different in design from that of Padstow, it was \"no less impressive\". In 1978, Cawte noted that the Minehead custom had \"never been so fashionable\" as its Padstow counterpart, and that as such it had received less research from folklorists and historians. He also reported that among Minehead locals there was a claim that the Padstow hobby horse had been created by Cornish sailors after they had observed that at Minehead.\n\n24 miles west of Minehead, in the North Devon coastal town of Combe Martin, a hobby horse custom was recorded as existing in the early nineteenth century but which had ended in 1837. In this custom, a procession traversed the town on Ascension Day; it included not only the Hobby Horse but also Grenadiers, figures identified as the fool and the 'Early of Rone', and a real donkey. In the 1970s, Cawte reported that Minehead locals claimed that there had once been a rivalry between their hobby horse and that at Combe Martin, although he added that there was no corroborating evidence to suggest that this piece of folklore was historically accurate.\n\n"}
{"id": "1603110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1603110", "title": "Mongol invasions of Japan", "text": "Mongol invasions of Japan\n\nThe , which took place in 1274 and 1281, were major military efforts undertaken by Kublai Khan to conquer the Japanese archipelago after the submission of Goryeo (Korea) to vassaldom. Ultimately a failure, the invasion attempts are of macro-historical importance because they set a limit on Mongol expansion and rank as nation-defining events in the history of Japan.\n\nThe Mongol invasions are considered a precursor to early modern warfare. One of the most notable technological innovations during the war was the use of explosive, hand-thrown bombs.\n\nThe invasions are referred to in many works of fiction, and are the earliest events for which the word \"kamikaze\" (\"divine wind\") is widely used, originating in reference to the two typhoons faced by the Mongol fleets.\n\nAfter a series of Mongol invasions of Korea between 1231 and 1281, Goryeo signed a treaty in favor of the Mongols and became a vassal state. Kublai was declared Khagan of the Mongol Empire in 1260 (although this was not widely recognized by the Mongols in the west) and established his capital at Khanbaliq (within modern Beijing) in 1264.\n\nJapan at the time was ruled by the Shikken (shogunate regents) of the Hōjō clan, who had intermarried with and wrested control from Minamoto no Yoriie, \"shōgun\" of the Kamakura shogunate, after his death in 1203. The inner circle of the Hōjō clan had become so preeminent that they no longer consulted the council of the shogunate (), the Imperial Court of Kyoto, or their gokenin vassals, and made their decisions at private meetings in their residences ().\n\nThe Mongols also made attempts to subjugate the native peoples of Sakhalin—the Ainu, Orok, and Nivkh peoples—from 1260 to 1308.\n\nIn 1266, Kublai Khan dispatched emissaries to Japan with a letter saying:\nKublai essentially demanded that Japan become a vassal and send tribute under a threat of conflict. However, the emissaries returned empty-handed. A second set of emissaries were sent in 1268, returning empty-handed like the first. Both sets of emissaries met with the Chinzei Bugyō, or Defense Commissioner for the West, who passed on the message to Shikken, Hōjō Tokimune, Japan's ruler in Kamakura and to the Emperor of Japan in Kyoto.\n\nAfter discussing the letters with his inner circle, there was much debate, but the Shikken had his mind made up; he had the emissaries sent back with no answer. The Mongols continued to send demands, some through Korean emissaries and some through Mongol ambassadors on March 7, 1269; September 17, 1269; September 1271; and May 1272. However, each time, the bearers were not permitted to land in Kyushu.\n\nThe Imperial Court suggested compromise, but really had little effect in the matter, due to political marginalization after the Jōkyū War. The uncompromising shogunate ordered all those who held fiefs in Kyūshū, the area closest to the Korean Peninsula and thus most likely to be attacked, to return to their lands and forces in Kyūshū moved west, further securing the most likely landing points.\n\nAfter acknowledging its importance, the Imperial Court led great prayer services, and much government business was put off to deal with this crisis.\n\nThe Khan was willing to go to war as early as 1268 after having been rebuffed twice, but found that his empire did not have the resources to provide him with a sufficient navy at that time. With Mongol entry into the Korean court by marriage of the Korean crown prince to Kublai Khan's daughter, a mass construction of ships began on Korea's south-eastern shores, while the Mongols continued to demand Japan's surrender.\n\nKublai Khan founded the Yuan dynasty in 1271. In 1272, King Chungnyeol offered counsel to Kublai Khan. According to Goryeosa,\n\"Japan is yet to know the world is hallowed. So dispatch emissaries and convey our military power to Japan. Battle ships and military rations are well prepared. If you appoint me, I encourage you to the extent of my power.\" According to the History of Yuan, \"King of Goryeo ask Kublai Khan for conquering Japan. I am building 150 ships and encourage your conquest of Japan.\"\n\nAccording to the Yuanshi, the Yuan fleet set out with an estimated 15,000 Mongol and Chinese soldiers and 1,600–8,000 Korean soldiers in 300 large vessels and 400–500 smaller craft along with several thousand sailors, although figures vary considerably depending on the source and many modern historians consider the numbers exaggerated. The primary port for the operation was Quanzhou in Fujian, then the center of China's maritime trade. They landed on Komodahama beach on Tsushima Island on October 5, 1274. Sō Sukekuni, governor of Tsushima, led a cavalry unit of 80 to defend the island, but he and his outnumbered unit were killed in the engagement.\n\nThe Mongols and Koreans subsequently invaded Iki. Tairano Takakage, the Governor of Iki, fought the invaders with about 100 of his cavalrymen, but he killed himself after his unit was defeated.\n\nThe Mongol forces landed on November 19 in Hakata Bay, a short distance from Dazaifu, the ancient administrative capital of Kyūshū. The following day brought the Battle of Bun'ei (文永の役), also known as the \"First Battle of Hakata Bay\". The Japanese coalition force opposing them included 120 armed samurai each with a warband and likely numbered between 3,000 and 6,000 strong. Later accounts have both sides believing themselves to be drastically outnumbered by the enemy; the Yuanshi provides an estimate of 102,000 for the Japanese force, while the Japanese \"Hachiman Gudokun\" describes the invaders as outnumbering the Japanese 10 to 1. Conlan argues that the Yuanshi's account of the battle suggests that both the Japanese and Yuan forces were of similar size. Conlan estimated that both armies numbered around 3,000 each (not including the Yuan sailors).\nThe Japanese were inexperienced in managing such a large force (all of North Kyūshū had been mobilized), and the Mongols made significant initial progress. It had been approximately 50 years since the last major combat event in Japan (Go-Toba's adherents in 1221), leaving not a single Japanese general with adequate experience in moving large bodies of troops. In addition, the style of warfare that was customary within feudal Japan involved single combat, even on large battlefields.\n\nThe Mongols possessed foreign weapons which included superior long-range armaments (the short composite bows that the Mongols were famous for, with poisoned arrows, fire arrows, bow-launched arrows with small rocket engines attached and gunpowder-packed exploding arrows and grenades with ceramic shells thrown by slings to terrify the enemy's horses), and easily had the upper hand in open land combat. The Japanese force at Hakata Bay needed time to await the arrival of reinforcements, with which they would be able to overwhelm the Mongol invaders.\n\nAround nightfall, the Mongol ship captains suggested that the land force reembark in order to avoid the risk of being marooned on Japanese soil. Hong Dagu, the commander of the exhausted Mongolian army, further decided in a military meeting for withdrawal from Japan. For the ships at that time the navigation to north, i.e. from Hakata to Korea's south-eastern shores, was risky, if not in daytime and under south wind. However, they pressed ahead the retreating action in night and met a stormy wind. Some accounts offer casualty reports that suggest 200 Mongol ships were lost. However, small Japanese boats were much more swift and maneuverable than Mongol ships, and the Japanese were able to board the remaining ships of the crippled Mongol army. The samurai approached and boarded the ships under cover of darkness and fell on the invaders ferociously. In the small confines of the ships, during the predawn darkness, the Mongols (trained as cavalrymen and horse archers) were unable to bring their bows to bear effectively. However, the long, thin Japanese swords got stuck and snapped off in the thick, boiled leather armor of the Mongols, causing Japanese blacksmiths to reevaluate their swords after the first invasion. This led to the beginning of the divergence of the katana from existing tachi swords in the 13th and 14th century.\n\nA story widely known in Japan is that back in Kamakura, Tokimune was overcome with fear when the invasion finally came, and wanting to overcome his cowardice, he asked Mugaku Sogen, his Zen master also known as Bukko, for advice. Bukko replied he had to sit in meditation to find the source of his cowardice in himself. Tokimune went to Bukko and said, \"Finally there is the greatest happening of my life.\" Bukko asked, \"How do you plan to face it?\" Tokimune screamed, \"Katsu!\" (\"Victory!\") as if he wanted to scare all the enemies in front of him. Bukko responded with satisfaction, \"It is true that the son of a lion roars as a lion!\" Since that time, Tokimune was instrumental in spreading Zen and Bushido in Japan among the samurai.\n\nOn October 5, About 1,000 soldiers of the Mongolian Army landed at Komoda Beach. (宗助国), Shugodai of Tsushima Island was killed in action.\nThe Mongolians slaughtered many dwellers of Tsushima island.\n\nOn October 14, , Shugodai of Iki led about 100 soldiers. They were defeated by the Mongolian army and he committed suicide in Hizume Castle (樋詰城). About 1,000 Japanese soldiers were killed there.\n\nOn October 16 to 17, the Mongolian army attacked the base of the Sashi clan. Hundreds of Japanese soldiers and , Sashi Tomaru (佐志留) and Sashi Isamu (佐志勇) were killed.\n\nThe Mongolian Army landed on Sawara District and encamped at Akasaka. On seeing this situation, Kikuchi Takefusa surprised the Mongolian army. The Mongolians escaped to Sohara, after losing about 100 soldiers.\n\nThousands of Mongolian soldiers were massed in Torikai-Gata. Takezaki Suenaga (竹崎季長), one of the Japanese commanders, attacked the Mongolian army and fought them.\nSoon, reinforcements led by arrived and defeated the Mongolians soundly. The Mongolian casualties of this battle were about 3,500.\n\nDue to the defeat in battle of Torikai-Gata, the Mongolian army was exhausted and withdrew to their ships. On seeing this situation, the Japanese army engaged in night attacks and killed many soldiers.\nFinally, Hong Dagu decided to withdraw to the Yuan-held continent. In the midst of withdrawal, they met a stromy wind, most of their ships sank and many soldiers drowned.\n\nStarting in 1274, the shogunate increased efforts to defend against the second invasion, which they thought was sure to come. In addition to better organizing the samurai of Kyūshū, they ordered the construction of forts and a large stone wall (石塁, Sekirui), and other defensive structures at many potential landing points, including Hakata Bay, where a two meter high wall was constructed in 1276.\n\nReligious services increased and the Hakozaki Shrine, having been destroyed by the Yuan forces, was rebuilt. A coastal watch was instituted and rewards were given to some 120 valiant samurai. There was even a plan for a raid on Goryeo (modern-day Korea) to be carried out by Shōni Tsunesuke, a general from Kyūshū, though this was never executed.\n\nAfter the failed invasion, Kublai Khan was tired of being ignored and not being allowed to land, so five Yuan emissaries were dispatched in September 1275 and sent to Kyūshū, refusing to leave without a reply. Tokimune responded by having them sent to Kamakura and then beheading them. The graves of those five executed Yuan emissaries exist to this day at Jōryū Temple in Fujisawa, Kanagawa, near the Tatsunokuchi Execution Place in Kamakura. Then again on July 29, 1279, five more Yuan emissaries were sent in the same manner, and again beheaded, this time in Hakata. Expecting another invasion, on Feb 21, 1280, the Imperial Court ordered all temples and shrines to pray for victory over the Yuan.\n\nIn the spring of 1281, the Mongols sent two separate forces. Per the Yuanshi, an impressive force of 900 ships containing 17,000 sailors, 10,000 Korean soldiers, and 15,000 Mongols and Chinese set out from Masan, Korea, while an even larger force of 100,000 sailed from southern China in 3,500 ships, for a combined force of 142,000 soldiers and sailors. Japanese sources also mention 150,000 men in the invading force. Many modern historians believe these to be exaggerated figures, as were common in medieval chronicles. Professor Thomas Conlan states that they were likely exaggerated by an order of magnitude (implying 14,000 soldiers and sailors), expressing skepticism that a medieval kingdom managed an invasion on the scale of D-Day during World War II across over ten times the distance, and questions if even 10,000 soldiers attacked Japan in 1281. Morris Rossabbi states that Conlan was correct in his assertion that the invasion force was much smaller than traditionally believed, but argues that the expenditures lavished on the mission confirm that the fighting force was sizable and much larger than 10,000 soldiers and 4,000 sailors. He puts forward the alternative figure of 70,000 soldiers and sailors, half of what is spoken of in the Yuanshi and later Japanese claims. Turnbull thinks that 140,000+ is an exaggeration, but does not offer his own precise estimate for the size of the army. Rather, he only states that given the contributions of the Southern Song, the second invasion should have been around three times larger than the first. As he earlier listed the common figure of 23,000 for the first invasion uncritically, unlike the estimate of 140,000+ for the second, that would imply an invasion force of ~70,000, on par with Rossabbi's estimate.\n\nThe Mongols' plan called for an overwhelming coordinated attack by the combined imperial Yuan fleets. The Chinese fleet of the Yuan was delayed by difficulties in provisioning and manning the large number of ships they had. The Mongol fleet set sail, suffered heavy losses at Tsushima, and turned back. In the summer, the fleet took Iki-shima and moved on to Kyūshū, landing at several different locations. In a number of individual skirmishes, known collectively as the Kōan Campaign (弘安の役) or the \"Second Battle of Hakata Bay\", the Mongol forces were driven back to their ships. The Japanese army was heavily outnumbered, but had fortified the coastal line with two-meter high walls, and was easily able to repulse the auxiliaries that were launched against it. Beginning August 15, the now-famous \"kamikaze\", a massive typhoon, assaulted the shores of Kyūshū for two days straight, and destroyed much of the Mongol fleet. Sensing the oncoming typhoon, Korean and south Chinese mariners retreated and unsuccessfully docked in Imari Bay where they were destroyed by the storm.\n\nFurthermore, it is now believed that the destruction of the Mongol fleet was greatly facilitated by an additional factor. Most of the invasion force was composed of hastily acquired flat-bottomed Chinese riverboats and ships built in Goryeo and all of a similar type. According to Goryeosa, Southern Song-type ships were too costly and their construction was too slow, so the traditional types were constructed instead. Such ships (unlike ocean-going ships, which have a curved keel to prevent capsizing) were difficult to use on high seas, let alone during a massive typhoon.\n\nOn May 21, the Mongolian Army landed on Tsushima island and invaded. They met fierce resistance there and later withdrew.\n\nOn June 3, the Mongolians attempted a landing on Shikano island, but were unable to make significant advances. By June 6, Mongolian forces had control of most of the island, but on the morning of June 8, the Japanese army divided their force into two and attacked along Umi no Nakamichi. \nThe Japanese army lost 300 soldiers but defeated Hong Dagu, who nearly died in this battle, and Zhang Cheng.\n\nOn June 9 Zhang Cheng solidified the defense of his army but the Mongolian army was again defeated by the fierce Japanese attacks. After this defeat the Mongolian army escaped to Iki Island.\n\nOn June 29, a Japanese army of approximately 10,000, led by the Matsura clan, Ryūzōji clan and Takagi clan began an all-out attack on Iki Island. \nOn July 2, Ryōzōji Iekiyo landed on Setoura beach and defeated the Mongolian army. As a result, the Mongolian army abandoned Iki Island and withdrew to Hirado Island.\n\nOn July 5, Takezaki Suenaga attacked and annihilated the Mongolian Navy.\nAfter this battle, most of the commanders of the Mongolian army escaped to their own country.\n\nOn July 7, there were about 100,000 soldiers of the Mongol army without commanders. Upon realizing this situation, the Japanese army launched an attack. Togo Korechika, Togo Koretoo, Fujiwara Sukekado and Shimazu Nagahisa\nannihilated the remaining Mongolian army and took 20,000 to 30,000 prisoners in this battle. At the completion of this battle, Japan's victory was confirmed.\n\nFrom a military perspective, the failed invasions of Kublai Khan were the first of only three instances when the samurai fought foreign troops rather than amongst themselves; the others being Japanese invasions of Korea (1592–98) and the Japanese invasion of Ryukyu (1609). It is also the first time samurai clans fought for the sake of Japan itself instead of for more narrowly defined clan interests. The invasions also exposed the Japanese to an alien fighting style which, lacking the single combat that characterized traditional samurai combat, they saw as inferior. This difference is noted in the \"Hachiman Gudōkun\":\n\nThe Mongol method of advances and withdrawals accompanied by bells, drums and war cries was also unknown in Japan, as was the technique of Mongolian archers, which involved shooting arrows \"en masse\" into the air rather than long-ranged one-on-one combat. The Zen Buddhism of Hojo Tokimune and his Zen master Bukko had gained credibility beyond national boundaries, and the first mass followings of Zen teachings among samurai began to flourish.\n\nThe Mongol invasions of Japan facilitated a change in the designs of Japanese swords. Thin tachi and chokuto style blades were often unable to cut through the boiled leather armor of the Mongols, with the blades often chipping or breaking off. Tachi blades were shortened and thickened, with the katana eventually being introduced as a result.\n\nThe failed invasions also mark the first use of the word \"kamikaze\" (\"Divine Wind\"). The fact that the typhoon that helped Japan defeat the Mongol Navy in the first invasion occurred in late November, well after the normal Pacific typhoon season (May to October), perpetuated the Japanese belief that they would never be defeated or successfully invaded, which remained an important aspect of Japanese foreign policy until the very end of World War II. The failed invasions also demonstrated a weakness of the Mongols – the inability to mount naval invasions successfully (see also Mongol invasions of Vietnam.) After the death of Kublai, his successor, Temür Khan, unsuccessfully demanded the submission of Japan in 1295.\n\nThe Mongols and the Ashikaga shogunate of Japan made peace in the late 14th century during the reign of Toghon Temür, the last Yuan emperor in Khanbaliq. Long before the peace agreement, there was stable trade in East Asia under the dominance of the Mongols and Japan.\n\nAs a consequence of the destruction of the Mongol fleets, Japan's independence was guaranteed. Simultaneously, a power struggle within Japan led to the dominance of military governments and diminishing Imperial power.\n\nThe Mongol invasions are an early example of gunpowder warfare. One of the most notable technological innovations during the war was the use of explosive bombs. The bombs are known in Chinese as \"thunder crash bombs\" and were fired from catapults, inflicting damage on enemy soldiers. An illustration of a bomb is depicted in a Japanese scroll, showing their use by the Mongols against mounted samurai. Archaeological evidence of the use of gunpowder was finally confirmed when multiple shells of the explosive bombs were discovered in an underwater shipwreck off the shore of Japan by the Kyushu Okinawa Society for Underwater Archaeology. X-rays by Japanese scientists of the excavated shells provided proof that they contained gunpowder.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40549288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40549288", "title": "Moscow Trials", "text": "Moscow Trials\n\nThe Moscow Trials were a series of trials held in the Soviet Union at the instigation of Joseph Stalin between 1936 and 1938 against so-called Trotskyists and members of Right Opposition of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. \n\nThere were three Moscow Trials that included the Case of the Trotskyite-Zinovievite Terrorist Center (Zinoviev-Kamenev Trial, aka \"Trial of the Sixteen,\" 1936), the Case of the Anti-Soviet Trotskyist Center (Pyatakov-Radek Trial, 1937), and the Case of the Anti-Soviet \"Bloc of Rights and Trotskyites\" (Bukharin-Rykov Trial, aka \"Trial of the Twenty-One,\" 1938). \n\nThe defendants of these were Old Bolshevik party leaders and top officials of the Soviet secret police. Most defendants were charged under Article 58 of the RSFSR Penal Code with conspiring with the western powers to assassinate Stalin and other Soviet leaders, dismember the Soviet Union, and restore capitalism. \n\nThe Moscow Trials led to the execution of many of the defendants. They are generally seen as part of Stalin's Great Purge, an attempt to rid the party of current or prior oppositionists, especially but not exclusively Trotskyists, and any leading Bolshevik cadre from the time of the Russian Revolution or earlier, who might even potentially become a figurehead for the growing discontent in the Soviet populace resulting from Stalin's mismanagement of the economy. Stalin's hasty industrialisation during the period of the First Five Year Plan and the brutality of the forced collectivisation of agriculture had led to an acute economic and political crisis in 1928-33, a part of the global problem known as the Great Depression, and to enormous suffering on the part of the Soviet workers and peasants. Stalin was acutely conscious of this fact and took steps to prevent it taking the form of an opposition inside the Communist Party of the Soviet Union to his increasingly autocratic rule.\n\nStalin, Grigory Zinoviev, and Lev Kamenev formed a ruling triumvirate (a so-called troika, not to be confused with the NKVD troika) in early 1923 after Vladimir Lenin had become incapacitated from a stroke. In the context of the series of defeats of communist revolutions abroad (crucially the German revolutions of 1919 and 1923 but also later the Chinese Revolution of 1927) which left the Russian Revolution increasingly isolated in a backward country, enabled the troika to effect the marginalization of Leon Trotsky in an internal party political conflict over the issue of Stalin's theory of Socialism in One Country. It was Trotsky who most clearly represented the wing of the CPSU leadership which claimed that the survival of the revolution depended on the spread of communism to the advanced European economies especially Germany. This was expressed in his theory of permanent revolution.\n\nA few years later, Zinoviev and Kamenev joined the United Front in an alliance with Trotsky which favored Trotskyism and opposed Stalin specifically. Consequently, Stalin allied with Nikolai Bukharin and defeated Trotsky in a power struggle. Trotsky was expelled from the Soviet Union in 1929 and Kamenev and Zinoviev temporarily lost their membership in the Communist Party. Zinoviev and Kamenev, in 1932, were found to be complicit in the Ryutin Affair and again were temporarily expelled from the Communist Party. In December 1934, Sergei Kirov was assassinated and, subsequently 15 defendants were found guilty of direct, or indirect, involvement in the crime and were executed. Zinoviev and Kamenev were found to be morally complicit in Kirov's murder and were sentenced to prison terms of ten and five years, respectively.\n\nBoth Kamenev and Zinoviev had been secretly tried in 1935 but it appears that Stalin decided that, with suitable confessions, their fate could be used for propaganda purposes. Genrikh Yagoda oversaw the interrogation proceedings.\n\nIn December 1935, the original case surrounding Zinoviev began to widen into what was called the \"Trotsky-Zinoviev Center\". Stalin allegedly received reports that correspondences from Trotsky were found among the possessions of one of those arrested in the widened probe. Consequently, Stalin stressed the importance of the investigation and ordered Nikolai Yezhov to take over the case and ascertain if Trotsky was involved. The central office of NKVD that was headed by Genrikh Yagoda was shocked when it was known that Yezhov (at that time a mere party functionary) has discovered the conspiracy, due to the fact that they (NKVD) had no relations to the case. This would have led to inevitable conclusion about unprofessionalism of the NKVD leaders who completely missed the existence of the conspiratorial Trotskyist center. In June 1936, Yagoda reiterated his belief to Stalin that there was no link between Trotsky and Zinoviev, but Stalin promptly rebuked him. Bewilderment was strengthened by the fact that both Zinoviev and Kamenev for a long time were under constant operational surveillance and after the murder of Kirov were held in custody. A key role in investigating played a chief of the Secret-political department of the NKVD Main Directory of State Security (a predecessor of KGB), State Security Commissar of the 2nd Class Georgiy Molchanov.\n\nThe basis of the scenario was laid in confession testimonies of three arrested: NKVD agent Valentin Olberg () who was teaching at the Gorky Pedagogic Institute and two former participants of the internal party opposition and Soviet statesmen Isaak Rejngold and Richard Pikel. Wherein Rejngold firmly believed that participating in the case fabrication about mythical conspiracy he executes the party's task. In relation to their composition, the testimonies looked standard conspiratorial activity, murder of Kirov, preparation to assassination attempts against the leaders of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, seizure of power in the Soviet Union with the aim of \"restoration of capitalism\".\n\nIn July 1936, Zinoviev and Kamenev were brought to Moscow from an unspecified prison. They were interrogated and denied being part of any Trotsky-led conspiracy. Yezhov appealed to Zinoviev's and Kamenev's devotion to the Soviet Union as old Bolsheviks and advised them that Trotsky was fomenting anti-Soviet sentiment amongst the proletariat in the world. Throughout spring and summer of 1936 the investigators were requesting from the arrested \"to lay down arms in front the party\" exerting a continuous pressure on them. Furthermore, this loss of support, in the event of a war with Germany or Japan, could have disastrous ramifications for the Soviet Union. To Kamenev specifically, Yezhov showed him evidence that his son was subject to an investigation that could result in his son's execution. According to one witness, at the beginning of the summer the central heating was turned on in Zinoviev's and Kamenev's cells. This was very unpleasant for both prisoners but particularly Zinoviev who was asthmatic and couldn't tolerate the artificially increased temperatures. Finally the exhausted prisoners agreed to a deal with Stalin who promised them, on the behalf of Politburo, their lives in exchange for participation in the anti-Trotskyist spectacle. Kamenev and Zinoviev agreed to confess on condition that they receive a direct guarantee from the entire Politburo that their lives and those of their families and followers would be spared. When they were taken to the supposed Politburo meeting, they were met by only Stalin and Kliment Voroshilov. Stalin explained that they were the \"commission\" authorized by the Politburo, and Stalin agreed to their conditions in order to gain their desired confessions. After that the future defendants were given some medical treatment and food.\n\nThe trial was held from August 19 to August 24, 1936 in the small October Hall of the House of the Unions (chosen instead of the larger Hall of Columns, used for earlier trials) and there were 16 defendants.\n\nThe main charge was forming a terror organization with the purpose of killing Joseph Stalin and other members of the Soviet government. They were tried by the Military Collegium of the Supreme Court of the USSR, with Vasili Ulrikh presiding. The Prosecutor General was Andrei Vyshinsky, a former member of the Mensheviks who in 1917 had signed an order to arrest Lenin.\n\nDefendant Ivan Nikitich Smirnov was blamed by his co-defendants for being the leader of the Center which planned Kirov's assassination. He, however, had been in prison since January 1933 and refused to confess.\n\nAnother defendant, the Old Bolshevik Eduard Holtzman, was accused at the Trial of the 16 of conspiring with Trotsky in Copenhagen at the Hotel Bristol in 1932, where Trotsky was giving a public lecture. A week after the trial it was revealed by a Danish Social Democratic newspaper that the hotel had been demolished in 1917.\n\nAll the defendants were sentenced to death and were subsequently shot in the cellars of Lubyanka Prison in Moscow.\n\nThe full list of defendants is as follows:\n\nThe second trial occurred between January 23 and January 30, 1937.\n\nThis second trial involved 17 lesser figures including Karl Radek, Yuri Piatakov and Grigory Sokolnikov. Alexander Beloborodov was also arrested and intended to be tried along with Radek, but did not make the confession required of him, and so he was not produced in court. Thirteen of the defendants were eventually executed by shooting. The rest received sentences in labour camps.\nRadek was spared as he implicated others, including Nikolai Bukharin, Alexei Rykov, and Marshal Mikhail Tukhachevsky, setting the stage for the Trial of Military and Trial of the Twenty One.\n\nRadek provided the pretext for the purge on a massive scale with his testimony that there was a \"third organization separate from the cadres which had passed through [Trotsky's] school\" as well as \"semi-Trotskyites, quarter-Trotskyites, one-eighth-Trotskyites, people who helped us, not knowing of the terrorist organization but sympathizing with us, people who from liberalism, from a Fronde against the Party, gave us this help.\"\n\nBy the third organization, he meant the last remaining former opposition group called Rightists led by Bukharin, whom he implicated by saying: \"I feel guilty of one thing more: even after admitting my guilt and exposing the organisation, I stubbornly refused to give evidence about Bukharin. I knew that Bukharin's situation was just as hopeless as my own, because our guilt, if not juridically, then in essence, was the same. But we are close friends, and intellectual friendship is stronger than other friendships. I knew that Bukharin was in the same state of upheaval as myself. That is why I did not want to deliver him bound hand and foot to the People's Commissariat of Home Affairs. Just as in relation to our other cadres, I wanted Bukharin himself to lay down his arms.\"\n\nAt the time, many Western observers who attended the trials said that they were fair and that the guilt of the accused had been established. They based this assessment on the confessions of the accused, which were freely given in open court, without any apparent evidence that they had been extracted by torture or drugging. Joseph E. Davies, the U.S. ambassador, wrote in \"Mission to Moscow\":\nIn view of the character of the accused, their long terms of service, their recognized distinction in their profession, their long-continued loyalty to the Communist cause, it is scarcely credible that their brother officers ... should have acquiesced in their execution, unless they were convinced that these men had been guilty of some offense. It is generally accepted by members of the Diplomatic Corps that the accused must have been guilty of an offense which in the Soviet Union would merit the death penalty.\nThe Tukhachevsky Affair was a secret trial before a military tribunal of a group of Red Army generals, including Mikhail Tukhachevsky, in June 1937.\n\nIt featured the same type of frame-up of the defendants and it is traditionally considered one of the key trials of the Great Purge. Mikhail Tukhachevsky and the senior military officers Iona Yakir, Ieronim Uborevich, Robert Eideman, August Kork, Vitovt Putna, Boris Feldman, and Vitaly Primakov were accused of anti-Communist conspiracy and sentenced to death; they were executed on the night of June 11/June 12, immediately after the verdict delivered by a Special Session of the Supreme Court of the USSR. This trial triggered a massive purge of the Red Army.\n\nThe third show trial, in March 1938, known as The Trial of the Twenty-One, tied together all the loose threads from earlier trials. It included 21 defendants alleged to belong to the so-called \"Bloc of Rightists and Trotskyites\":\n\n\nThe fact that Yagoda was one of the accused showed the speed at which the purges were consuming its own. Meant to be the culmination of previous trials, it now alleged that Bukharin and others had conspired to assassinate Lenin and Stalin numerous times after 1918 and had murdered Soviet writer Maxim Gorky by poison in 1936. The group also stood accused of espionage. Bukharin and others were claimed to have plotted the overthrow and territorial partition of the Soviet Union in collusion with agents of the German and Japanese governments, among other preposterous charges.\n\nEven sympathetic observers who had stomached the earlier trials found it hard to swallow the new charges as they became ever more absurd, and the purge had now expanded to include virtually every living Old Bolshevik leader except Stalin.\n\nThe preparation for this trial was delayed in its early stages due to the reluctance of some party members to denounce their comrades. It was at this time that Stalin personally intervened to speed up the process and replaced Yagoda with Yezhov. Stalin also observed some of the trial in person from a hidden chamber in the courtroom. On the first day of the trial, Krestinsky caused a sensation when he repudiated his written confession and pleaded not guilty to all the charges. However, he changed his plea the next day after \"special measures\", which dislocated his left shoulder among other things.\n\nAnastas Mikoyan and Vyacheslav Molotov later claimed that Bukharin was never tortured, but it is now known that his interrogators were given order, \"beating permitted,\" and were under great pressure to extract confessions out of the \"star\" defendant. Bukharin held out for three months, but threats to his young wife and infant son, combined with \"methods of physical influence\" wore him down. But when he read his confession, amended and corrected personally by Stalin, he withdrew his whole confession. The examination started all over again, with a double team of interrogators.\n\nBukharin's confession in particular became the subject of much debate among Western observers, inspiring Koestler's novel \"Darkness at Noon\" and a philosophical essay by Maurice Merleau-Ponty in \"Humanism and Terror\" among others. His confessions were somewhat different from others in that, while he pleaded guilty to general charges, he denied knowledge of any specific crimes. Some astute observers noted that he would allow only what was in his written confession and refused to go any further. The fact that he was allowed to write in prison (he wrote four book-length manuscripts including an autobiographical novel, \"How It All Began\", a philosophical treatise, and a collection of poems – all of which were found in Stalin's archive and published in the 1990s) suggests that some kind of deal was reached as a condition for his confession. He also wrote a series of emotional letters to Stalin, protesting his innocence and professing his love for Stalin, which contrasts with his critical opinion of Stalin and his policies as expressed to others and with his conduct in the trial.\n\nThere are several possible interpretations of Bukharin's motivation (besides coercion) in the trial. Koestler and others viewed it as a true believer's last service to the Party (while preserving a modicum of personal honor), whereas Bukharin's biographers Stephen Cohen and Robert Tucker saw traces of Aesopian language, with which Bukharin sought to turn the table into a trial of Stalinism (while keeping his part of the bargain to save his family). Bukharin himself speaks of his \"peculiar duality of mind\" in his last plea, which led to \"semi-paralysis of the will\" and Hegelian \"unhappy consciousness\".\n\nThe result was a curious mix of fulsome confessions and subtle criticisms of the trial. After disproving several charges against him (one observer noted that he proceeded to demolish, or rather showed he could very easily demolish, the whole case ), Bukharin said that \"the confession of accused is not essential. The confession of the accused is a medieval principle of jurisprudence\", his point being that the trial was solely based on coerced confessions. He finished his last plea with \"the monstrousness of my crime is immeasurable, especially in the new stage of the struggle of the U.S.S.R. May this trial be the last severe lesson, and may the great might of the U.S.S.R. become clear to all.\" \n\nRomain Rolland and others wrote to Stalin seeking clemency for Bukharin, but all the leading defendants were executed except Rakovsky and two others (they were killed in prison in 1941). Despite the promise to spare his family, Bukharin's wife, Anna Larina, was sent to a labor camp, but she survived.\n\nCommunist Party leaders in most Western countries denounced criticism of the trials as capitalist attempts to subvert Communism.\n\nA number of American communists and progressive \"fellow travellers\" outside of the Soviet Union signed a \"Statement of American Progressives on the Moscow Trials\". These included Langston Hughes and Stuart Davis, who would later express regrets.\n\nSome contemporary observers who thought the trials were inherently fair cite the statements of Molotov, who while conceding that some of the confessions contain unlikely statements, said there may have been several reasons or motives for this – one being that the handful who made doubtful confessions were trying to undermine the Soviet Union and its government by making dubious statements in their confessions to cast doubts on their trial. Molotov postulated that a defendant might invent a story that he collaborated with foreign agents and party members to undermine the government so that those members would falsely come under suspicion, while the false foreign collaboration charge would be believed as well. Thus, the Soviet government was in his view the victim of false confessions. Nonetheless, he said the evidence of mostly out-of-power Communist officials conspiring to make a power grab during a moment of weakness in the upcoming war truly existed. This defense collapsed after the release of Khrushchev's Secret Speech to the Twentieth Congress.\n\nIn Britain, the lawyer and Labour MP Denis Nowell Pritt, for example, wrote: \"Once again the more faint-hearted socialists are beset with doubts and anxieties,\" but \"once again we can feel confident that when the smoke has rolled away from the battlefield of controversy it will be realized that the charge was true, the confessions correct and the prosecution fairly conducted\", while socialist thinker Beatrice Webb \"was pleased that Stalin had 'cut out the dead wood'\". Communist Party leader Harry Pollitt, in the \"Daily Worker\" of March 12, 1936, told the world that \"the trials in Moscow represent a new triumph in the history of progress\". The article was ironically illustrated by a photograph of Stalin with Yezhov, himself shortly to vanish and his photographs airbrushed from history by NKVD archivists.\n\nIn the United States, left-wing advocates such as Corliss Lamont and Lillian Hellman also denounced criticism of the Moscow trials, signing \"An Open Letter To American Liberals\" in support of the trials for the March 1937 issue of \"Soviet Russia Today\". In the political atmosphere of the 1930s, the accusation that there was a conspiracy to destroy the Soviet Union was not incredible, and few outside observers were aware of the events inside the Communist Party that had led to the purge and the trials.\n\nHowever, the Moscow trials were generally viewed negatively by most Western observers including many liberals. The \"New York Times\" noted the absurdity in an editorial on March 1, 1938: \"It is as if twenty years after Yorktown somebody in power at Washington found it necessary for the safety of the State to send to the scaffold Thomas Jefferson, Madison, John Adams, Hamilton, Jay and most of their associates. The charge against them would be that they conspired to hand over the United States to George III.\"\nFor Bertram Wolfe, the outcome of the Bukharin trial marked his break with Stalinism.\n\nIn May 1937, the Commission of Inquiry into the Charges Made against Leon Trotsky in the Moscow Trials, commonly known as the Dewey Commission, was set up in the United States by supporters of Trotsky, to establish the truth about the trials. The commission was headed by the noted American philosopher and educator John Dewey, who led a delegation to Mexico, where Trotsky lived, to interview him and hold hearings from April 10 to April 17, 1937. The hearings were conducted to investigate the allegations against Trotsky who publicly stated in advance of them that if the commission found him guilty as charged he would hand himself over to the Soviet authorities. They brought to light evidence which established that some of the specific charges made at the trials could not be true.\n\nThe Dewey Commission published its findings in the form of a 422-page book titled \"Not Guilty\". Its conclusions asserted the innocence of all those condemned in the Moscow Trials. In its summary the commission wrote: \"Independent of extrinsic evidence, the Commission finds:\n\nThe commission concluded: \"We therefore find the Moscow Trials to be frame-ups.\"\n\nFor example, in Moscow, Pyatakov had testified that he had flown to Oslo in December 1935 to \"receive terrorist instructions\" from Trotsky. The Dewey Commission established that no such flight had taken place.\n\nIn Britain, the trials were also subject to criticism. A group called the\nBritish Provisional Committee for the Defence of Leon Trotsky was set up. In 1936, the\nCommittee published an open letter in the \"Manchester Guardian\" calling for an international\ninquiry into the Trials. The letter was signed by several notable\nfigures, including H. N. Brailsford, Harry Wicks, Conrad Noel, Frank Horrabin and\nEleanor Rathbone. The Committee also\nsupported the Dewey Commission. Emrys Hughes, the British MP, also\nattacked the Moscow Trials as unjust in his newspaper \"Forward\".\n\nAll of the surviving members of the Lenin-era party leadership except Stalin and Trotsky, were tried. By the end of the final trial Stalin had arrested and executed almost every important living Bolshevik from the Revolution. Of 1,966 delegates to the party congress in 1934, 1,108 were arrested. Of 139 members of the Central Committee, 98 were arrested. Three out of five Soviet marshals (Alexander Ilyich Yegorov, Vasily Blyukher, Tukhachevsky) and several thousands of the Red Army officers were arrested or shot. The key defendant, Leon Trotsky, was living in exile abroad, but he still did not survive Stalin's desire to have him dead and was assassinated by a Soviet agent in Mexico in 1940.\n\nWhile Khrushchev's Secret Speech denounced Stalin's personality cult and purges as early as 1956, rehabilitation of Old Bolsheviks proceeded at a slow pace. Nikolai Bukharin and 19 other co-defendants were officially completely rehabilitated in February 1988. Yagoda, who was deeply involved in the great purge as the head of NKVD, was not included. In May 1988, rehabilitation of Zinoviev, Kamenev, Radek, and co-defendants was announced.\n\nAfter the death of Stalin, Nikita Khrushchev repudiated the trials in a speech to the Twentieth Congress of the Russian Communist Party:\n\nIt is now known that the confessions were given only after great psychological pressure and torture had been applied to the defendants. From the accounts of former GPU officer Alexander Orlov and others the methods used to extract the confessions are known: repeated beatings, torture, making prisoners stand or go without sleep for days on end, and threats to arrest and execute the prisoners' families. For example, Kamenev's teenage son was arrested and charged with terrorism. After months of such interrogation, the defendants were driven to despair and exhaustion.\n\nIn January 1989, the official newspaper \"Pravda\" reported that 25,000 persons had been posthumously rehabilitated.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "67505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67505", "title": "Palais Garnier", "text": "Palais Garnier\n\nThe Palais Garnier ( French ) is a 1,979-seat opera house, which was built from 1861 to 1875 for the Paris Opera. It was called the Salle des Capucines, because of its location on the Boulevard des Capucines in the 9th arrondissement of Paris, but soon became known as the Palais Garnier, in recognition of its opulence and its architect, Charles Garnier. The theatre is also often referred to as the Opéra Garnier ( French ) and historically was known as the Opéra de Paris or simply the Opéra, as it was the primary home of the Paris Opera and its associated Paris Opera Ballet until 1989, when the Opéra Bastille opened at the Place de la Bastille. The Paris Opera now mainly uses the Palais Garnier for ballet.\n\nThe Palais Garnier has been called \"probably the most famous opera house in the world, a symbol of Paris like Notre Dame Cathedral, the Louvre, or the Sacré Coeur Basilica.\" This is at least partly due to its use as the setting for Gaston Leroux's 1910 novel \"The Phantom of the Opera\" and, especially, the novel's subsequent adaptations in films and the popular 1986 musical. Another contributing factor is that among the buildings constructed in Paris during the Second Empire, besides being the most expensive, it has been described as the only one that is \"unquestionably a masterpiece of the first rank.\"\nThis opinion is far from unanimous however: the 20th-century French architect Le Corbusier once described it as \"a lying art\" and contended that the \"Garnier movement is a décor of the grave\".\n\nThe Palais Garnier also houses the Bibliothèque-Musée de l'Opéra de Paris (Paris Opera Library-Museum), although the Library-Museum is no longer managed by the Opera and is part of the Bibliothèque Nationale de France. The museum is included in unaccompanied tours of the Palais Garnier.\n\nThe opera was constructed in what Garnier himself is said to have told the Empress Eugenie was \"Napoleon III\" The Napoleon III style was highly eclectic, and borrowed from many historical sources; the opera house included elements from the Baroque, the classicism of Palladio, and Renaissance architecture, artfully blended together. These were combined with axial symmetry and modern techniques and materials, including the use of an iron framework, which had been pioneered in other Napoleon III buildings, including the Bibliotheque Nationale and the markets of Les Halles.\n\nThe facade and the interior followed the Napoleon III style principle of leaving no space without decoration. Garnier used polychromy, or a variety of colors, for theatrical effect, achieved different varieties of marble and stone, porphyry, and gilded bronze. The facade of the Opera used seventeen different kinds of material, arranged in very elaborate multicolored marble friezes, columns, and lavish statuary, many of which portray deities of Greek mythology. \nThe principal facade is on the south side of the building, overlooking the Place de l'Opéra and terminates the perspective along the Avenue de l'Opéra. Fourteen painters, mosaicists and seventy-three sculptors participated in the creation of its ornamentation.\n\nThe two gilded figural groups, Charles Gumery's \"L'Harmonie\" (Harmony) and \"La Poésie\" (Poetry), crown the apexes of the principal facade's left and right avant-corps. They are both made of gilt copper electrotype.\n\nThe bases of the two avant-corps are decorated (from left to right) with four major multi-figure groups sculpted by François Jouffroy (\"Poetry\", also known as \"Harmony\"), Jean-Baptiste Claude Eugène Guillaume (\"Instrumental Music\"), Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux (\"The Dance\", criticised for indecency), and Jean-Joseph Perraud (\"Lyrical Drama\"). The facade also incorporates other work by Gumery, Alexandre Falguière, and others.\n\nGilded galvanoplastic bronze busts of many of the great composers are located between the columns of the theatre's front façade and depict, from left to right, Rossini, Auber, Beethoven, Mozart, Spontini, Meyerbeer, and Halévy. On the left and right lateral returns of the front facade are busts of the librettists Eugène Scribe and Philippe Quinault, respectively.\n\nThe sculptural group \"Apollo, Poetry, and Music\", located at the apex of the south gable of the stage flytower, is the work of Aimé Millet, and the two smaller bronze Pegasus figures at either end of the south gable are by Eugène-Louis Lequesne.\n\nAlso known as the Rotonde de l'Empereur, this group of rooms is located on the left (west) side of the building and was designed to allow secure and direct access by the Emperor via a double ramp to the building. When the Empire fell, work stopped, leaving unfinished dressed stonework. It now houses the Bibliothèque-Musée de l'Opéra de Paris (Paris Opera Library-Museum) which is home to nearly 600,000 documents including 100,000 books, 1,680 periodicals, 10,000 programs, letters, 100,000 photographs, sketches of costumes and sets, posters and historical administrative records.\n\nLocated on the right (east) side of the building as a counterpart to the Pavillon de l'Empereur, this pavilion was designed to allow subscribers (\"abonnés\") direct access from their carriages to the interior of the building. It is covered by a 13.5-metre diameter dome. Paired obelisks mark the entrances to the rotunda on the north and the south.\n\nThe interior consists of interweaving corridors, stairwells, alcoves and landings, allowing the movement of large numbers of people and space for socialising during intermission. Rich with velvet, gold leaf, and cherubim and nymphs, the interior is characteristic of Baroque sumptuousness.\n\nThe building features a large ceremonial staircase of white marble with a balustrade of red and green marble, which divides into two divergent flights of stairs that lead to the Grand Foyer. Its design was inspired by Victor Louis's grand staircase for the Théâtre de Bordeaux. The pedestals of the staircase are decorated with female torchères, created by Albert-Ernest Carrier-Belleuse. The ceiling above the staircase was painted by Isidore Pils to depict \"The Triumph of Apollo\", \"The Enchantment of Music Deploying its Charms\", \"Minerva Fighting Brutality Watched by the Gods of Olympus\", and \"The City of Paris Receiving the Plan of the New Opéra\". When the paintings were first fixed in place two months before the opening of the building, it was obvious to Garnier that they were too dark for the space. With the help of two of his students, Pils had to rework the canvases while they were in place overhead on the ceiling and, at the age of 61, he fell ill. His students had to finish the work, which was completed the day before the opening and the scaffolding was removed.\n\nThis hall, 18 meters high, 154 meters long and 13 meters wide, was designed to act as a drawing room for Paris society. It was restored in 2004. Its ceiling was painted by Paul-Jacques-Aimé Baudry and represents various moments in the history of music. The foyer opens onto an outside loggia and is flanked by two octagonal salons with ceilings painted by Jules-Élie Delaunay in the eastern salon and Félix-Joseph Barrias in the western salon. The octagonal salons open to the north into the Salon de la Lune at the western end of the Avant-Foyer and the Salon du Soleil at its eastern end.\n\nThe auditorium has a traditional Italian horseshoe shape and can seat 1,979. The stage is the largest in Europe and can accommodate as many as 450 artists. The canvas house curtain was painted to represent a draped curtain, complete with tassels and braid.\n\nThe ceiling area which surrounds the chandelier was originally painted by Jules Eugène Lenepveu.\nIn 1964 a new ceiling painted by Marc Chagall was installed on a removable frame over the original. It depicts scenes from operas by 14 composers – Mussorgsky, Mozart, Wagner, Berlioz, Rameau, Debussy, Ravel, Stravinsky, Tchaikovsky, Adam, Bizet, Verdi, Beethoven, and Gluck. Although praised by some, others feel Chagall's work creates \"a false note in Garnier's carefully orchestrated interior.\"\n\nThe seven-ton bronze and crystal chandelier was designed by Garnier. Jules Corboz prepared the model, and it was cast and chased by Lacarière, Delatour & Cie. The total cost came to 30,000 gold francs. The use of a central chandelier aroused controversy, and it was criticised for obstructing views of the stage by patrons in the fourth level boxes and views of the ceiling painted by Eugène Lenepveu. Garnier had anticipated these disadvantages but provided a lively defence in his 1871 book \"Le Théâtre\": \"What else could fill the theatre with such joyous life? Who else could offer the variety of forms that we have in the pattern of the flames, in these groups and tiers of points of light, these wild hues of gold flecked with bright spots, and these crystalline highlights?\"\n\nOn 20 May 1896, one of the chandelier's counterweights broke free and burst through the ceiling into the auditorium, killing a concierge. This incident inspired one of the more famous scenes in Gaston Leroux's classic 1910 gothic novel \"The Phantom of the Opera\".\n\nOriginally the chandelier was raised up through the ceiling into the cupola over the auditorium for cleaning, but now it is lowered. The space in the cupola was used in the 1960s for opera rehearsals, and in the 1980s was remodelled into two floors of dance rehearsal space. The lower floor consists of the Salle Nureïev (Nureyev) and the Salle Balanchine, and the upper floor, the Salle Petipa.\n\nThe grand organ was built by Aristide Cavaillé-Coll for use during lyrical works. It has been out of service for several decades.\n\nGarnier had originally planned to install a restaurant in the opera house; however, for budgetary reasons, it was not completed in the original design.\n\nOn the third attempt to introduce it since 1875, a restaurant was opened on the eastern side of the building in 2011. L'Opéra Restaurant was designed by French architect Odile Decq. The chef was Christophe Aribert; in October 2015, Guillame Tison-Malthé became the new head chef. The restaurant, which has three different spaces and a large outside terrace, is accessible to the general public.\n\nIn 1821 the Opéra de Paris had moved into the temporary building known as the Salle Le Peletier on the . Since then a new permanent building had been desired. Charles Rohault de Fleury, who was appointed the opera's official architect in 1846, undertook various studies in suitable sites and designs. By 1847, the Prefect of the Seine, Claude-Philibert de Rambuteau, had selected a site on the east side of the Place du Palais-Royal as part of an extension of the Rue de Rivoli. However, with the Revolution of 1848, Rambuteau was dismissed, and interest in the construction of a new opera house waned. The site was later used for the Grand Hôtel du Louvre (designed in part by Charles Rohault de Fleury).\n\nWith the establishment of the Second Empire in 1852 and Georges-Eugène Haussmann's appointment as Prefect of the Seine in June 1853, interest in a new opera house revived. There was an attempted assassination of Emperor Napoleon III at the entrance to the Salle Le Peletier on 14 January 1858. The Salle Le Peletier's constricted street access highlighted the need for a separate, more secure entrance for the head of state. This concern and the inadequate facilities and temporary nature of the theatre gave added urgency to the building of a new state-funded opera house. By March Haussmann settled on Rohault de Fleury's proposed site off the Boulevard des Capucines, although this decision was not announced publicly until 1860. A new building would help resolve the awkward convergence of streets at this location, and the site was economical in terms of the cost of land.\nOn 29 September 1860 an imperial decree officially designated the site for the new Opéra, which would eventually occupy . By November 1860 Rohault de Fleury had completed the design for what he thought would be the crowning work of his career and was also working on a commission from the city to design the facades of the other buildings lining the new square to ensure they were in harmony. However that same month Achille Fould was replaced as minister of state by Count Alexandre Colonna-Walewski. His wife Marie Anne de Ricci Poniatowska had used her position as mistress of Napoleon III to obtain her husband's appointment. Aware of competing designs and under pressure to give the commission to Viollet-le-Duc, who had the support of Empress Eugénie, Walewski escaped the need to make a decision by proposing to mount an architectural design competition to select the architect.\n\nOn 30 December 1860 the Second Empire of Emperor Napoleon III officially announced an architectural design competition for the design of the new opera house.\n\nApplicants were given a month to submit entries. There were two phases to the competition. Charles Garnier's project was one of about 170 submitted in the first phase. Each of the entrants were required to submit a motto that summarised their design. Garnier's was the quote \"Bramo assai, poco spero\" (\"desire for much, hope for little\") from the Italian poet Torquato Tasso.\nGarnier's project was awarded the fifth-place prize, and he became one of seven finalists selected for the second phase. In addition to Garnier, among the others were his friend Leon Ginain, Alphonse-Nicolas Crépinet and Joseph-Louis Duc (who subsequently withdrew due to other commitments). To the surprise of many, both Viollet-le-Duc and Charles Rohault de Fleury missed out.\n\nViollet-de-Duc's losing Opera Competition project of 1861\nThe second phase required the contestants to revise their original projects and was more rigorous, with a 58-page program, written by the director of the Opéra, Alphonse Royer, which the contestants received on 18 April. The new submissions were sent to the jury in the middle of May, and on 29 May 1861 Garnier's project was selected for its \"rare and superior qualities in the beautiful distribution of the plans, the monumental and characteristic aspect of the facades and sections\".\n\nGarnier's wife Louise later wrote that the French architect Alphonse de Gisors, who was on the jury, had commented to them that Garnier's project was \"remarkable in its simplicity, clarity, logic, grandeur, and because of the exterior dispositions which distinguish the plan in three distinct parts—the public spaces, auditorium, and stage ... 'you have greatly improved your project since the first competition; whereas Ginain [the first-place winner in the first phase] has ruined his.'\"\n\nLegend has it that the Emperor's wife, the Empress Eugénie, who was likely irritated that her own favoured candidate, Viollet-le-Duc, had not been selected, asked the relatively unknown Garnier: \"What is this? It's not a style; it's neither Louis Quatorze, nor Louis Quinze, nor Louis Seize!\" \"Why Ma'am, it's Napoléon Trois\" replied Garnier \"and you're complaining!\" Andrew Ayers has written that Garnier's definition \"remains undisputed, so much does the Palais Garnier seem emblematic of its time and of the Second Empire that created it. A giddy mixture of up-to-the-minute technology, rather prescriptive rationalism, exuberant eclecticism and astonishing opulence, Garnier's opera encapsulated the divergent tendencies and political and social ambitions of its era.\" Ayers goes on to say that the judges of the competition in particular admired Garnier's design for \"the clarity of his plan, which was a brilliant example of the \"beaux-arts\" design methods in which both he and they were thoroughly versed.\"\n\nAfter the initial funds to begin construction were voted on 2 July 1861, Garnier established the Opéra \"Agence\", his office on the construction site, and hired a team of architects and draftsmen. He selected as his second-in-command, Louis-Victor Louvet, followed by Jean Jourdain and Edmond Le Deschault.\n\nThe site was excavated between 27 August and 31 December. On 13 January 1862 the first concrete foundations were poured, starting at the front and progressing sequentially toward the back, with the laying of the substructure masonry beginning as soon as each section of concrete was cast. The opera house needed a much deeper basement in the substage area than other building types, but the level of the groundwater was unexpectedly high. Wells were sunk in February 1862 and eight steam pumps installed in March, but despite operating continuously 24 hours a day, the site would not dry up. To deal with this problem Garnier designed a double foundation to protect the superstructure from moisture. It incorporated a water course and an enormous concrete cistern (\"cuve\") which would both relieve the pressure of the external groundwater on the basement walls and serve as a reservoir in case of fire. A contract for its construction was signed on 20 June. Soon a persistent legend arose that the opera house was built over a subterranean lake, inspiring Gaston Leroux to incorporate the idea into his novel \"The Phantom of the Opera\". On 21 July the cornerstone was laid at the southeast angle of the building's facade. In October the pumps were removed, the brick vault of the \"cuve\" was finished by 8 November, and the substructure was essentially complete by the end of the year.\n\nThe emperor expressed an interest in seeing a model of the building, and a plaster scale model (2 cm per meter) was constructed by Louis Villeminot between April 1862 and April 1863 at a cost of more than 8,000 francs. After previewing it, the emperor requested several changes to the design of the building, the most important of which was the suppression of a balustraded terrace with corner groups at the top of the facade and its replacement with a massive attic story fronted by a continuous frieze surmounted by imperial \"quadrigae\" over the end bays.\n\nWith the incorporated changes, the model was transported over specially installed rails to the Palais de l'Industrie for public display at the 1863 exhibition. Théophile Gautier wrote of the model (\"Le Moniteur Universel\", 13 May 1863) that \"the general arrangement becomes intelligible to all eyes and already acquires a sort of reality that better permits one to prejudge the final effect ... it attracts the crowd's curiosity; it is, in effect, the new Opéra seen through reversed opera glasses.\" The model is now lost, but it was photographed by J. B. Donas in 1863.\n\nThe emperor's quadrigae were never added, although they can be seen in the model. Instead Charles-Alphonse Guméry's gilded bronze sculptural groups \"Harmony\" and \"Poetry\" were installed in 1869. The linear frieze seen in the model was also redesigned with alternating low- and high-relief decorative medallions bearing the gilded letters from the imperial monogram (\"N\" for Napoléon, \"E\" for Empereur). The custom-designed letters were not ready in time for the unveiling and were replaced with commercially available substitutes. After the fall of the empire in 1870, Garnier was relieved to be able to remove them from the medallions. Letters in Garnier's original design were finally installed during the restoration of the building in 2000.\n\nThe scaffolding concealing the facade was removed on 15 August 1867 in time for the Paris Exposition of 1867. The official title of the Paris Opera was prominently displayed on the entablature of the giant Corinthian order of coupled columns fronting the main-floor loggia: \"ACADEMIE IMPERIALE DE MUSIQUE\". When the emperor was deposed on 4 September 1870 as a result of the disastrous Franco-Prussian War, the government was replaced by the Third Republic, and almost immediately, on 17 September 1870, the Opera was renamed Théâtre National de l'Opéra, a name it kept until 1939. In spite of this, when it came time to change the name on the new opera house, only the first six letters of the word IMPERIALE were replaced, giving the now famous \"ACADEMIE NATIONALE DE MUSIQUE\", an official title which had actually only been used during the approximately two-year period of the Second Republic which had preceded the Second Empire.\n\nAll work on the building came to a halt during the Franco-Prussian War due to the siege of Paris (September 1870 – January 1871). Construction had so advanced that parts of the building could be used as a food warehouse and a hospital. After France's defeat Garnier became seriously ill from the deprivations of the siege and left Paris from March to June to recover on the Ligurian coast of Italy, while his assistant Louis Louvet remained behind during the turmoil of the Paris Commune which followed. Louvet wrote several letters to Garnier, which document events relating to the building. Because of the theatre's proximity to the fighting at the Place Vendôme, troops of the National Guard bivouacked there and were in charge of its defence and distributing food to soldiers and civilians. The Commune authorities planned to replace Garnier with another architect, but this unnamed man had not yet appeared when Republican troops ousted the National Guard and gained control over the building on 23 May. By the end of the month the Commune had been severely defeated. The Third Republic had become sufficiently well established by the fall, that on 30 September construction work recommenced, and by late October a small amount of funds were voted by the new legislature for further construction.\n\nThe political leaders of the new government maintained an intense dislike of all things associated with the Second Empire, and many of them regarded the essentially apolitical Garnier as a holdover from that regime. This was especially true during the presidency of Adolphe Thiers who remained in office until May 1873, but also persisted under his successor Marshal MacMahon. Economies were demanded, and Garnier was forced to suppress the completion of sections of the building, in particular the Pavillon de l'Empereur (which later became the home of the Opera Library Museum). However, on 28–29 October an overwhelming incentive to complete the new theatre came when the Salle Le Peletier was destroyed by a fire which raged the entire night. Garnier was immediately instructed to complete the building as soon as possible.\n\nThe cost of completion of the new house during 1874 was more than 7.5 million francs, a sum that greatly exceeded the amounts spent in any of the previous thirteen years. The cash-strapped government of the Third Republic resorted to borrowing 4.9 million gold francs at an interest rate of six percent from François Blanc, the wealthy financier who managed the Monte Carlo Casino. Subsequently (from 1876 to 1879) Garnier would oversee the design and construction of the Monte Carlo Casino concert hall, the Salle Garnier, which later became the home of the Opéra de Monte Carlo.\n\nDuring 1874 Garnier and his construction team worked feverishly to complete the new Paris opera house, and by 17 October the orchestra was able to conduct an acoustical test of the new auditorium, followed by another on 2 December which was attended by officials, guests, and members of the press. The Paris Opera Ballet danced on the stage on 12 December, and six days later the famous chandelier was lit for the first time.\n\nThe theatre was formally inaugurated on 5 January 1875 with a lavish gala performance attended by Marshal MacMahon, the Lord Mayor of London and King Alfonso XII of Spain. The program included the overtures to Auber's \"La muette de Portici\" and Rossini's \"William Tell\", the first two acts of Halévy's 1835 opera \"La Juive\" (with Gabrielle Krauss in the title role), along with \"The Consecration of the Swords\" from Meyerbeer's 1836 opera \"Les Huguenots\" and the 1866 ballet \"La source\" with music by Delibes and Minkus. As a soprano had fallen ill one act from Charles Gounod's \"Faust\" and one from Ambroise Thomas's \"Hamlet\" had to be omitted. During the intermission Garnier stepped out onto the landing of the grand staircase to receive the approving applause of the audience.\n\nIn 1881 electric lighting was installed. In the 1950s new personnel and freight elevators were installed at the rear of stage, to facilitate the movement of employees in the administration building and the moving of stage scenery.\n\nIn 1969, the theatre was given new electrical facilities and, during 1978, part of the original Foyer de la Danse was converted into new rehearsal space for the Ballet company by the architect Jean-Loup Roubert.\nDuring 1994, restoration work began on the theatre. This consisted of modernising the stage machinery and electrical facilities, while restoring and preserving the opulent décor, as well as strengthening the structure and foundation of the building. This restoration was completed in 2007.\n\nThe French Post Office has issued two postage stamps on the building:\nThe first was issued in September 1998, for the centenary of the death of Charles Garnier. It was designed by Claude Andréotto grouping elements which recall the artistic activities of the Opera Garnier: the profile of a dancer, a violin and a red curtain.\nThe second, drawn and engraved by Martin Mörck, is issued in June 2006 and represents, in intaglio, the main facade.\n\nThe building inspired many other buildings over the following thirty years.\n\nSeveral buildings in Poland were based on the design of the Palais Garnier. these include the Juliusz Słowacki Theatre in Kraków, built during 1893 and also the Warsaw Philharmony edifice in Warsaw, built between 1900 and 1901.\n\nIn Ukraine, the influence of the Palais Garnier can be seen at the National Opera House of Ukraine in Kiev, built in 1901, Lviv Theatre of Opera and Ballet in Lviv, built between 1897 and 1900.\n\nThe Thomas Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. is modelled after the Palais Garnier, most notably the facade and Great Hall.\n\nThe Theatro Municipal do Rio de Janeiro (1909) was also modelled after Palais Garnier, particularly and Great Hall and stairs.\n\nThe Amazon Theatre in Manaus (Brazil) built from 1884 to 1896. The overview is very similar, though the decoration is simpler.\n\nThe Hanoi Opera House in Vietnam is considered to be a typical French colonial architectural monument in Vietnam, and it is also a small-scale replica of the Palais Garnier. The Saigon Opera House is a smaller counterpart.\n\nThe Legends Hotel Chennai in India is also a small scale replica of Palais Garnier, especially the Facade and statues.\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "7152372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7152372", "title": "Platte Bridge Railroad Tragedy", "text": "Platte Bridge Railroad Tragedy\n\nThe Platte Bridge Railroad Tragedy was a bushwhacker attack on the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad during the American Civil War on September 3, 1861, in which the train derailed on a bridge over the Platte River east of St. Joseph, Missouri, killing between 17 and 20 and injuring 100. The bridge crosses the river in Buchanan County, between Marion Township on the east, and Washington Township on the west.\n\nConfederate partisans planned to burn the lower timbers of the 160-foot bridge across the river, leaving the top looking intact. At 11:15 p.m. on a moonless night, the westbound passenger train from Hannibal, Missouri, to St. Joseph started to cross the bridge. The supports cracked and gave way. The locomotive flipped, falling 30 feet into the shallow river and bringing with it the freight cars, baggage car, mail car and two passenger cars with 100 men, women and children. Bodies and the injured were taken to the Patee House near the St. Joseph depot. Union soldiers were ordered to track down and execute bushwhackers for their part in the incident. \n\nConfederate Major General Sterling Price, who had been invading northern Missouri at the time, wrote Union commanding general Henry Wager Halleck to protest, stating the sabotage was \"lawful and proper\" according to the rules of warfare and that the captured men should be treated as prisoners of war. Halleck replied that the bushwhackers were \"spies, marauders, robbers, incendiaries, guerrilla bands...in the garb of peaceful citizens\" The bushwhackers were to also say that it was a military target because there were soldiers on it bound for Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. One of the soldiers killed was Barclay Coppock, a member of John Brown's raid on Harper's Ferry. The bushwackers were also to claim that it was an attempt to assassinate former Missouri Governor Robert Marcellus Stewart.\n\nThe most prominent of the bushwhackers sought by the Federal troops was Silas M. Gordon. Union troops were to burn Platte City, Missouri twice (in December 1861 and July 1864) in unsuccessful attempts to force the townspeople to surrender him (see the Burning of Platte City). \n\nThe railroad at the time was the first to cross the state of Missouri and it was used to deliver mail to and from the Pony Express terminus in St. Joseph, Missouri. Col. Ulysses S. Grant's first commission in the Civil War had been guarding the trains. In August he was promoted to brigadier general on a new assignment.\n"}
{"id": "5747651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5747651", "title": "Powder keg", "text": "Powder keg\n\nA powder keg is a barrel of gunpowder. The powder keg was the primary method for storing and transporting large quantities of black powder until the 1870s and the adoption of the modern cased bullet. However, the barrels had to be handled with care, since a spark or other source of heat could cause the contents to deflagrate.\n\nIn practical use, powder kegs were small casks to limit damage from accidental explosions. Today they are valued as collectibles. Specimens of early American kegs for gunpowder are found in sizes like 8.75\" tall by 6.5\" diameter and 13\" tall by 11\" diameter, often with strappings of reed or sapling wood rather than metal bands to avoid sparks. Kegs for blasting powder used for mining or quarrying were often larger than kegs for shipping and storing powder for firearms.\n\nA powder keg is also a metaphorical term for a region that political, socioeconomic, historical or other circumstances have made prone to outbursts. The analogy is drawn from a perception that certain territories may seem peaceful and dormant until another event triggers a large outburst of violence. The term is most often used to simplify and help the understanding of what is often a complex set of circumstances that lead to conflicts, such as the powder keg of Europe.\n\nWhile the term can be used to designate the entire region of Europe, it is often used specifically to refer to the Balkan countries, particularly the ex-Yugoslavian countries. The most cited event attributed to the use of the term was the assassination of Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1914, the immediate trigger of World War I.\n"}
{"id": "30971714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30971714", "title": "Protests in Sudan (2011–13)", "text": "Protests in Sudan (2011–13)\n\nProtests in Sudan, also nicknamed as the Sudanese Intifada, began in January 2011 as part of the Arab Spring regional protest movement. Unlike in other Arab countries, popular uprisings in Sudan had succeeded in toppling the government prior to the Arab Spring in 1964 and 1985. Demonstrations in Sudan however were less common throughout the summer of 2011, during which South Sudan seceded from Sudan, but resumed in force later that year and again in June 2012, shortly after the government passed its much criticized austerity plan.\n\nPresident Omar al-Bashir has been the Sudanese president since he led a bloodless coup in 1989. Bashir began instituting Sharia and abolished political parties in 1990. He appointed himself president in 1993, returned Sudan to civilian rule, and won a presidential election in 1996 as the only candidate. In 2008, the International Criminal Court called for his arrest for alleged genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes in Darfur. But Sudan rejected the indictment, saying the decision was defiance against Sudan's sovereignty. The political system of Sudan are widely considered by both domestic and international community to take place within an authoritarian system due to the control of the National Congress Party of the judiciary, executive and legislative branches of government.\n\nSudan has lost billions of dollars in oil receipts since South Sudan gained independence in July 2011, about three quarters of Sudan's oil fields falling within the territory of the new country. The north has been left struggling for revenue, plagued by inflation, and with a severe shortage of dollars to pay for imports. The landlocked South depended on the north's pipeline and port to export its crude, but Khartoum and Juba could not agree on how much South Sudan should pay to use the infrastructure. Sudan's already depleted oil revenues shrank by a further 20 per cent after its main Heglig oil field was damaged and shut down in fighting with invading South Sudanese troops in April 2012.\n\nIn an attempt to address the economic meltdown, the Sudanese government has announced a new austerity plan on 18 June 2012, which includes raising taxes on consumer goods, cutting the number of civil servants on its payroll, raising the price of a gallon of petrol by 5 Sudanese pounds, pushing it up to 13.5 pounds from 8.5 pounds, and lifting the fuel subsidies. The plan did not gain much acceptance among common Sudanese as it is believed that the prices of every commodity will get hikes in effect from transport to domestically produced food and other goods.\n\nThe protests in Sudan have been influenced by the revolutionary wave that started in Tunisia and later spread to other Middle Eastern and North African nations. The protests followed shortly after a successful independence referendum in January 2011, on whether South Sudan should secede from Sudan and become an independent nation.\n\nFollowing the self-immolation of Mohamed Bouazizi in Tunisia on 17 December 2010, Al-Amin Moussa Al-Amin set himself ablaze on 23 January 2011 in Omdurman.\n\nOn 30 January 2011, protests took place in Khartoum and Al-Ubayyid (\"el-Obeid\"). In Khartoum, police clashed with demonstrators in the town centre and at least two universities. Demonstrators had organized on online social networking sites since the Tunisian protests the month before. Hussein Khogali, editor in chief of the \"Al-Watan\" newspaper stated that his daughter had been arrested for organizing the protest via Facebook and opposition leader Mubarak al-Fadil's two sons were arrested while on their way to the main protest. Pro-government newspapers had warned that protests would cause chaos. Some protesters called for President Omar al-Bashir to step down. Activists said that dozens of people had been arrested. The protests came on the same day the preliminary results for the referendum indicated some 99% of South Sudanese voted to secede. One student died in hospital the same night from injuries received in the clashes. Students threw rocks at police officers while chanting \"No to high prices, no to corruption\" and \"Tunisia, Egypt, Sudan together as one.\" Police officers arrested five and put down the protest.\n\nIn the Al-Ubayyid 30 January demonstration, about 500 people protested \"against the government and demanding change\" in the market. Police broke up the demonstration using tear gas.\n\nOn 1 February 2011, about 200 students demonstrated in front of Al-Neelain University in Khartoum. Police stopped the demonstration.\n\nFurther protests, scheduled for 21 March were violently suppressed as they were beginning.\n\nOn 1 November, hundreds of protesters took to the streets in the eastern town of Kassala.\n\nStudents protested at the Red Sea University in Port Sudan after the arrest of several Darfuri student leaders on the night of 21 December, with many Darfuri student activists calling for a revolution and declaring their open support for the Sudan Revolutionary Front fighting the government in the south. On 26 December 42 Darfuri students left the Red Sea University in protest over their treatment, Radio Dabanga reported.\n\nStudents also clashed with riot police wielding batons after security forces stormed the University of Khartoum on 22 December to break up a rally by about 700 student demonstrators protesting the displacement of the Manasir community caused by the construction of the Merowe Dam. Twenty were injured and at least four were arrested, activists told media. On 24 December, approximately 16,000 students attempted to launch a sit-in at the university to protest the police, the university administration, and the federal government, but they were dispersed by riot police who deployed tear gas, dealt out beatings, and arrested at least 73. Leaders of the student movement warned that they would continue to organize and demand the overthrow of the government despite security officers' violent tactics. On 30 December, thousands of students successfully launched a sit-in protest, the Associated Press reported.\n\nAt Sudan University of Science and Technology in Khartoum, fighting between student supporters of Khalil Ibrahim and the ruling National Congress Party broke out on 28 December, days after the Sudanese government announced Ibrahim's death in a battle between his Darfuri rebel group JEM and the Sudan People's Armed Forces. Twelve were injured in the brawl, which police used tear gas to disperse.\n\nThe student protests, in particular those at the University of Khartoum, have been blamed by police on the influence of unnamed Sudanese opposition parties.\n\nHundreds of female students in the University of Khartoum protested peacefully in the surroundings of their hostels at the central campus on the evening of 16 June. The protesters voice opposition against the escalation of prices and economic hardship in Sudan. The next day, students took to the streets, denouncing the austerity measures one day ahead of plans announced by the Sudanese government.\n\nAs Omar Al-Bashir has formally announced a series of deep budget cuts while addressing the National Assembly in Khartoum, about 250 students held anti-austerity protest in the Khartoum University. Riot police used tear gas and batons against the protesters who in turn threw stones at police. The clashes took place in front of the main campus of the University of Khartoum and in the suburb Omdurman against more than 300 student protesters. On 20 June, hundreds of students held anti-austerity protest for another day, escalating their demands and started to chant slogans like \"No, no to high prices\" and \"The people want to overthrow the regime\".\n\nShortly after the Friday prayers on 22 June, hundreds of Sudanese assembled to protest. Unlike the previous protest held during the past few days, this protest was not mainly a student-led one due to the protest spreading into many neighborhoods that had been quiet. Protests took place in Omdurman, Khartoum, Burri, Al-Daim, El Obeid, Sennar, and Bahri saw demonstrations after noon prayers. The police escalated the use of force during their clashes with the protesters and the smell of tear gas and broken rocks covered streets. Men in civilian clothes also attacked the demonstrators. Students in Kassala protested on 27 June outside the local university against the austerity measures and called for regime change.\n\nOn 29 June, around 2,000 protesters gathered in the capital and chanted anti-government slogans. Hundreds of police and security forces attacked the demonstration with tear gas. Other protests in the area of north Kordofan were reported. Activists said that a man named Amir Bayoumi, from Omdurman, has reportedly died from the effects of inhaling tear gas.\nThe largest protest so far erupted in Sudan on 6 July in which between 3,000 and 4,000 people protested at Al Ansar mosque in Wad Nubawi, Omdurman. Security forces and police blocked the roads leading to the Al Ansar mosque and surrounded the courtyard before the end of Friday prayers.\n\nSudanese university students armed with sticks and stones on Wednesday staged one of their largest protest on 11 July since unrest sparked by inflation began nearly a month ago. Security forces fired tear gas while students at the University of Khartoum were shouting and throwing stones after the protest began mid-afternoon. Two days later, Sudanese police surrounded the Imam Abdel Rahman Mosque in Omdurman and fired teargas when some 300 worshippers started a protest after noon prayers. Officers used batons to drive worshippers back inside the mosque where they continued their protest for more than an hour. On 16 July, a group of over 300 Sudanese lawyers protested outside Khartoum’s main courtroom on Monday against the government’s use of violence and arbitrary detention during last Friday's peaceful demonstrations.\n\nOn 31 July, more than 1,000 protesters, mostly students, threw rocks at police, burned tires and blocked roads in the market area of Nyala, on Tuesday. Activists said police forces fired heavy teargas and live bullets, leading to the death of 12 protesters and injury of more than 50 and added that 9 of the victims' bodies have been received at Nyala Hospital. However, the authorities issued conflicting statements with the police, saying eight were killed and South Darfur governor saying only six protesters were killed. The weeks of protests later ended with a huge security crackdown, with almost more than 2,000 people were arrested.\n\nOn 5 December 2012, four students at Gezira University, Darfur, were killed during a crackdown on anti-tuition fee protests. Demanding an investigation into the deaths, protests flared up once again, with students from Khartoum engaging in running battles with the police.\n\nOn 26 April 2013, protestors blocked a major road out of Khartoum in protest of a sell-off of farmland to Arabian investors. The crowds were dispersed by the authorities, wielding batons and tear gas. An alliance of four rebel groups called the Sudanese Revolutionary Front attacked the provincial town of Umm Ruwaba on 27 April. The government was eventually able to repel the attack, but ignited a local protest over lack of security in the region. Protestors stoned a government convoy the following day.\n\nOn the Bashir's 24th coup anniversary of 29 June, as many as 10,000 led by Sadiq al-Mahdi rallied in a square in Khartoum's twin city of Omdurman. Protesters held up signs saying: \"The people demand the fall of the regime\" and \"Go Bashir\". Hundreds of police officers were at the scene but they did not stop the rally.\n\nMore than 2,000 people took to the streets in Nyala on 18 September to demonstrate against the killing of a prominent businessman. They set several government buildings and cars on fire and burned tires, blocking roads and prompting police to fire teargas. Protesters shouted slogans before officers dispersed the crowd. Authorities later issued a nightly curfew in the, blaming the Darfuri rebels for trying to exploit the situation and enter the city.\n\n23 September 2013: Riots broke out after the government lifted its fuel and cooking gas subsidies to bring its budget under control. Within hours of petrol stations adjusting their price displays, some 800 protesters gathered in the center of Wad Medani, shouting \"No, No to price hikes,\" while others called on Bashir to resign, yelling \"Go, go.\" Three petrol stations and the branch of the French-Sudanese bank on the Soug El Kabir went up in flames, as also happened with a government administration unit at Soug El Malaja. The police reacted by shooting with rubber bullets and making heavy use of tear gas. Dozens of demonstrators were arrested. According to Sudan News Agency, police said a 23-year-old man was killed during a protest in Wad Madani but blamed unidentified gunmen opening fire from a passing vehicle that demonstrators had stoned. Activists however dismissed the government version and blamed government forces.\n\nIn Khartoum, the capital of Sudan, where there were protests in El Deim, Soug El Arabi and El Nilein University, the police used tear gas and sticks to disperse the crowd. A number of activists of the Sudanese Party and of Girifna were arrested in Khartoum North. An activist informed \"Radio Dabanga\" that \"thunderous demonstrations\" started from El Deim popular neighbourhood, led by women shouting \"down with the regime\". They were surrounded by the security men after Amarat Street was closed. A number of women were arrested. At the Nilein University in Khartoum students went out to demonstrate but were quickly cordoned by a huge police force. The demonstrators then tried to restart their protests at the Soug El Arabi, which was also surrounded by police.\n\nMohayed Siddig, a founding member of the youth movement \"Sudan Change Now,\" was arrested following a raid on his home by six armed agents from the NISS. NISS agents searched his home for more than two hours, and also confiscated CDs, documents and Siddig's wife's laptop. By 2 October Siddig was still being held incommunicado and without charge, with Amnesty International claiming him to be at risk of torture and ill-treatment. Other members of \"Sudan Change Now,\" including its spokesperson Amjed Farid, among others: Dahlia Elroubi, Omar Ushari and Khalid Omar, were also arrested.\n\n24 September 2013: Widespread protests continued for the second day in a row, with hundreds of students and citizens took to the streets in Sudan’s largest city, Omdurman, across the Nile from Khartoum. Protests were to be seen in Souk El Shaabi and in the districts of El Thawrat (the main streets Shingeeti and El Nuss, and the El Rumi neighbourhood) and Umbadda (El Sabil, El Gimiaab and El Rashidin), to protest against the rise of prices of basic commodities and public transport. At least four Khartoum state buses, two petrol stations at Shingeeti and Sabrin and the traffic police office of Omdurman were reportedly set on fire. Also three floors of the main office of the ruling National Congress Party in Umbadda burned out. The protests, calling for the \"overthrow of the regime\", led to the closure of schools, shops, Souk Omdurman, the Souk El Shaabi, and the suspension of public transport. Most of the protesters were ordinary citizens and students from secondary schools. They took control of the main streets and neighbourhoods of Omdurman, burning tires, and shouting slogans ‘down with the regime’. He added that after that the police closed the streets and started arresting dozens of protesters.\n\nIn Khartoum, as listeners told Radio Dabanga, students of the University of Khartoum began to go out to demonstrate, despite the cordon of riot police cars around the university buildings. The main streets of the city witnessed violent clashes between demonstrators and the police and security men, which resulted in a number of injuries and deaths. The demonstrators set fire to a bus of Khartoum state and a number of petrol stations.\n\n27 September 2013: Two non-government groups in Sudan, Amnesty International and the African Center for Justice and Peace Studies, claim that police killed more than 50 protesters, by aiming gunfire at people's heads and chests. Government officials, however, have said that there were fewer than 29 deaths.\n\nDr Sidgi Kaballo, a member of the Central Committee of Sudan’s Communist Party, was arrested shortly after arriving in Sudan from the UK. Family members attempting to visit him on 30 September were turned away and told to return in 15 days. The NISS would not disclose the detained doctor’s whereabouts to his family.\n\n30 September 2013: 200 protesters marched in the Burri district of Khartoum for a third day in order to show support for the \"martyr\" Salah Sanhouri. Sanhouri, 28, was a pharmacist who had been shot dead days earlier on Friday 27 September during a protest. 300 people also demonstrated at the main bus station in Omdurman, although were dispersed by police with tear gas. Police also reportedly fired tear gas at an anti-government rally of between 150 and 200 students on the campus of Ahfad University for Women.\n\nDahlia Al Roubi and Rayan Zein Abideen, members of \"Sudan Change Now,\" were taken to the NISS building in Emarat area where they were held without charge, access to lawyers or their families. By 2 October Amnesty International claimed to have received information that they had been moved to an unknown location\n\n1 October 2013: Amnesty International claimed that in a new wave of arrests, security forces arrested at least 800 activists members of opposition parties, journalists, and others, in raids that took place on the night of Monday 30 September and the early hours of the morning on Tuesday 1 October.\n\nAt a government press conference, the Sudanese Government responded to claims of photographic and video evidence of the crackdown against protesters by claiming that most of the photos were actually taken in Egypt, which has also been experiencing unrest. Bahram Abdelmoneim, a journalist with the Al Youm Al Taly newspaper, accused the government officials of lying when getting up to ask a question, and claimed that the deaths were caused by National Congress militias. Abdelmoneim was later unreachable after going to meet with government security agents.\n\n2 October 2013: The Ministry of the Interior announced that the government had arrested 700 \"criminals\" in Khartoum and elsewhere since the beginning of the new wave of protests on 23 September, however reports from journalists, opposition groups, and others maintain that a far greater number have been arrested. Arrests are often carried out under Sudan’s 2010 National Security Act, which granted the National Intelligence and Security Service powers to detain suspects for up to four and a half months without any form of judicial review.\n\nAmnesty International also claimed that at least 17 members of the Sudanese Communist Party had been in and around Khartoum since the beginning of protests, alongside members of other parties, including 15 from the Sudanese Congress Party.\n\nThe Sudanese Doctor's Union also claimed that at least 210 protesters had been killed in Khartoum alone by 2 October, with most dying from gunshot wounds to the head and chest.\n\n4 October 2013: In a press statement, Interior Minister Ibrahim Mahmoud Hami blamed the deaths of protesters on \"armed groups and individuals.\" By 5 October, the Sudanese government had still not claimed responsibility for any of the deaths, which the government claimed to number only 34.\n\nSeveral hundred protesters gathered in Khartoum on Friday 4 October calling for the resignation of Omar al-Bashir, although the protests were far smaller than those in the week before.\n\n9 October 2013: In a live speech on national radio, President Omar al-Bashir claimed that the protests were part of an attempt to overthrow the government. Bashir however claimed that the government could not be overthrown as it was \"guarded by God.\" Bashir also stated that the government was planning a major economic conference for November in order to gather experts in order to find solutions to help stabilize the economy.\n\nBashir had previously claimed that demonstrators were linked to anti-government conspiracies, and Interior Minister Ibrahim Mahmoud Hamed had claimed that demonstrators were backed by foreign groups.\n\nBy 9 October the Sudanese government had also upgraded its estimate for the number of deaths from the protests, giving a figure of 60-70. The Sudanese government also claimed that security forces had been forced to intervene when crowds turned violent and began attacking petrol stations and police.\n\n10 October 2013: Four children and four adults were convicted of vandalism during the protests.\n\n11 October 2013: Following Friday prayers, around 150 Sudanese pro-democracy activists and Islamists protested outside Khartoum's Grand Mosque. Demonstrators held banners reading \"our revolution is peaceful\". Security forces surrounded the area but stayed away from the protesters.\n\n21 October 2013: In an interview released on 21 October, President Omar al-Bashir claimed in an interview with Saudi newspaper Okaz that the unrest was mainly the work of rebel groups in Darfur, South Kordofan and Blue Nile states. Bashir claimed that the groups had waited for the lifting of subsidies, which had provided them an opportunity to attempt to overthrow the government. Bashir claimed that even Sudanese citizens were surprised by the scale of the unrest.\n\n24 October 2013:\n\n26 October 2013: Speaking to the AFP, Fadlallah Ahmed Abdallah, an MP with the National Congress Party, announced plans to secede from the NCP and form a new party following the government response to the protests. Abdallah claimed that the name and structure of the new party would be announced within a week.\n\nOn 17 January 2011, security forces in Sudan arrested the head of the Popular Congress Party, Hassan al-Turabi, as well as five other members of the party, after he called for a similar protest to oust the ruling government over electoral fraud, stoking inflation and abrogating civil liberties at a time when Sudan was facing a secessionist referendum.\n\nThe Committee to Protect Journalists said journalists are facing increasing harassment. On 30 January 2011, journalists were beaten by security forces and at least eight were detained. The following day, the distribution of several opposition newspapers was blocked by authorities.\n\nDuring the anti-austerity protests in June 2012, the Egyptian journalist Salma El-wardany was detained on 21 June 2012 and later released after five hours in detention. A Sudanese citizen journalist Usamah Mohamad was arrested the following day. An Agence France-Presse reporter was also detained.\n\nAs of July 2012, over 2,000 activists have been detained since protests began in Khartoum on 16 June, the activist group Girifna reported. The majority of detainees are being held in NSS detention centres, which are known for the use of ill treatment and torture—including beatings, sleep and food deprivation, racism and sexual abuse. Authorities have reportedly beaten detainees with their fists, hoses, plastic pipes, sticks and metal bars.\n\nOn 21 February 2011, President Omar al-Bashir announced that he would not seek to run in the presidential election in 2015.\n\nOn 11 July 2012, President Omar al-Bashir dismissed opposition calls for an Arab Spring-style uprising in the African country, threatening that \"a burning hot summer\" awaits his enemies. Bashir also warned that Sudan's enemies would also be skewered.\n\n – The U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland condemned the assault and detention of anti-austerity protestors, saying a crackdown on protestors will not solve Sudan’s political and economic crises. \"There have been reports of protestors being beaten, imprisoned and severely mistreated while in government custody. We call for the immediate release of those detained for peaceful protest.\"\n\nThe Arabic Network for Human Rights Information slammed the crackdown on protests, says Khartoum \"must show respect for the human rights\" of its citizens after Khartoum uses violence to disperse peaceful demonstrations: \"There should be dialogue with the opposition and respect for the human rights of its citizens to express themselves and protest without harassment.\"\n\nThe Organisation for Defence of Rights and Freedoms said that police in Sudan have attacked demonstrators with tear gas and rubber bullets and accused security forces of surrounding mosques where protests take place.\n\nHuman Rights Watch stated that the Sudanese security forces have arrested scores of protesters, opposition members, and journalists, beat people in detention, and used rubber bullets and even live ammunition to break up the anti-austerity protests. It further called on Sudan to end the crackdown on peaceful protesters, release people who have been detained, and allow journalists to report freely on the events.\n\nThe United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights urged the Sudanese authorities to ensure that the demonstration proceeds peacefully, without mass arrests and violent measures by security forces.\n\nOn 30 June 2012, Sudanese living outside Sudan stage protests in London, Dublin, Washington, D.C., Toronto, Paris, Cairo, New Delhi, Kuala Lumpur, Edinburgh, Sacramento, Canberra and other various locations to show solidarity with the ongoing anti-government protests in Sudan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38327248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38327248", "title": "R v Savage", "text": "R v Savage\n\nR v Savage [1992] UKHL 1 is a House of Lords case in English law on establishing mens rea of assault. \n\nThe defendant, Susan Savage, threw a beer over another woman, Tracey Beal, who was a former girlfriend of Mrs Savage's husband, in a pub on the evening of 31 March 1989. Mrs Savage had in her hand a full pint of beer before she threw the content over Miss Beal; in doing so the glass slipped from Savage's hand and cut Beal's wrist. The defendant claimed that she had only intended to throw the contents of the beer. It was never her intention or her realization that there was risk of injury in her action. The jury by their verdict concluded that Mrs Savage had deliberately thrown not only the beer but the glass at Miss Beal or while throwing the beer, the glass had slipped off her grip and had struck injured Miss Beal. In any of this instance, the jury concluded there was Mrs Savage had no intention that the glass would injure Miss Beal. Mrs Savage was convicted under s20 of Offences against the Person Act 1861 (OAPA 1861) 1861.\n\nThe Court of Appeal quashed the conviction of s20 by substituting it with a conviction under s47 OAPA 1861 Assault occasioning actual bodily harm. Mrs Savage appealed this decision to the House of Lords which dismissed her appeal. \n"}
{"id": "7429966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7429966", "title": "Salisbury Court Theatre", "text": "Salisbury Court Theatre\n\nThe Salisbury Court Theatre was a theatre in 17th-century London. It was in the neighbourhood of Salisbury Court, which was formerly the London residence of the Bishops of Salisbury. Salisbury Court was acquired by Richard Sackville in 1564 during the last seven years of his life when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer under Queen Elizabeth; when Thomas Sackville was created Earl of Dorset in 1604, the building was renamed Dorset House. (His grandson, Edward Sackville, 4th Earl of Dorset, was Queen Henrietta Maria's Lord Chamberlain in the 1630s, and was a prime mover in theatre and drama in London in that era, including the force behind the founding of this theatre.)\n\nAccording to contemporary chronicler Edmund Howes, \"a new faire Play-house\" was erected in 1629, just to the west of the medieval walls of the City of London, between Fleet Street and the River Thames, in a building converted from a barn or granary in the grounds of Dorset House. An enclosed \"private\" venue like the Blackfriars Theatre, it was a successor to the earlier Whitefriars Theatre (which had been just on the other side of Water Lane) and the short-lived Porter's Hall Theatre, and catered to an upscale and elite audience—in contrast to the open-air theatres like the Globe, Fortune, and Red Bull theatres that served a mass audience (especially in the latter two cases).\n\nLittle is known about the actual form and shape of the Salisbury Court Theatre. Yet since it was on a plot of land 42 feet (13 meters) wide, it may have resembled, to some greater or lesser degree, the plan for a small theatre drawn by Inigo Jones in the later Jacobean or Caroline era, which adheres to a very similar scale. \n\nThe Salisbury Court was built at a cost of £1,000 by Richard Gunnell, a veteran actor and the manager of the Fortune, and William Blagrave, deputy to Sir Henry Herbert, Master of the Revels. At some point in the middle of the 1630s, control of the theatre passed to the \"dictatorial management\" of Richard Heton, who was in charge by October 1635. (Gunnell died in late 1634 or early 1635, while Blagrave would die in 1636.) During the 1630s, the theatre was occupied at various times by the King's Revels Men (1630–31 and 1633–36), by Prince Charles's Men (1631–33), and by Queen Henrietta's Men (1637–42); for a time it was a major locus of dramatic activity, a main rival to the theatrical establishment run by Christopher Beeston at the Cockpit and Red Bull theatres. [See: Richard Brome.]\n\nSalisbury Court was the last theatre to be built before the closing of the theatres in 1642, during the Puritan era. After the theatres were closed, Salisbury Court was sometimes used for other purposes — and sometimes, as through much of 1647, it was used for theatrical performances in contravention of the local authorities. (The players played when they could get away with doing so—which was not always: the London authorities raided the Salisbury Court on 6 October 1647, breaking up a performance of \"A King and No King\" by Beaumont and Fletcher.) On 1 January 1649, the London authorities raided all four of the London theatres simultaneously; the actors at the Salisbury Court Theatre and the Cockpit Theatre were arrested, as was a \"rope-dancer\" or trapeze artist performing at the Fortune Theatre—but the actors at the Red Bull Theatre managed to escape. In March 1649, the authorities destroyed the interior of the Salisbury Court theatre, and the Fortune and the Cockpit too, making them useless for public performances.\n\nAfter years of being banned in the Interregnum, theatre was again permitted on the Restoration of Charles II in 1660, with the grant of two Letters patent to two companies to perform \"legitimate drama\" in London. The Salisbury Court Theatre was refurbished by William Beeston and used for a time by the Duke's Company, patronised by the Duke of York (later James II), from November 1660 to June 1661, when they moved to the nearby Lisle's Tennis Court next to Lincoln's Inn Fields, which they found a better venue. George Jolly's troupe also played there for a time. Samuel Pepys records visiting it several times in his diary for early 1661 (often calling it the Whitefriars Theatre).\n\nPepys' famous Diary provides information on the plays acted at the Salisbury Court Theatre immediately after the theatres re-opened. He saw Fletcher's \"The Mad Lover\" on 9 February 1661; Middleton and Rowley's \"The Changeling\" on 23 February (Thomas Betterton played De Flores); Massinger's \"The Bondman\" on 1 March (Betterton again); Fletcher and Massinger's \"The Spanish Curate\" on 16 March; Heywood's \"Love's Mistress\" on 2 March; and Fletcher's \"Rule a Wife and Have a Wife\" on 1 April. (All dates new style.)\n\nThe building burned down in the Great Fire of London in 1666. It was replaced in 1671 by the Dorset Garden Theatre, which was built slightly further south to a design by Christopher Wren. The theatre is commemorated by a plaque on the Dorset Rise (east) side of the corporate building on the south side of Salisbury Square.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50039455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50039455", "title": "Samsung Galaxy Note 7", "text": "Samsung Galaxy Note 7\n\nThe Samsung Galaxy Note 7 (marketed as Samsung Galaxy Note7) is a now-discontinued Android phablet smartphone that was produced and marketed by Samsung Electronics. Unveiled on 2 August 2016, it was officially released on 19 August 2016 as a successor to the Galaxy Note 5. It was Samsung's first phone with a symmetrical connector and the last phone in the Galaxy Note Series to have a home button. Although it is the sixth main device in the Galaxy Note series, Samsung branded its series number as \"7\" instead of \"6\", so that consumers would not perceive it as being inferior to the flagship Samsung Galaxy S7.\n\nThe Galaxy Note 7 is an evolution of the Galaxy Note 5 that inherited hardware components and improvements from the Galaxy S7, including the restoration of expandable storage and IP68 water resistance, and new features such as a dual-sided curved display, support for high-dynamic-range (HDR) color, improvements to the bundled stylus and new software features which utilize it, an iris recognition system, and a USB-C port. Demand for the Galaxy Note 7 on-launch was high, breaking pre-order records in South Korea and causing international releases to be delayed in some markets due to supply shortages. The Galaxy Note 7 also received positive reviews from critics, praising the quality of its construction, HDR support, as well as its streamlined user interface, although it was panned for its high price and increasing similarities in overall specifications to the main Galaxy S series phones.\n\nOn 2 September 2016, Samsung suspended sales of the Galaxy Note 7 and announced an informal recall, after it was found that a manufacturing defect in the phones' batteries had caused some of them to generate excessive heat, resulting in fires. A formal U.S. recall was announced on 15 September 2016. Samsung exchanged the affected phones for a new revision, which utilized batteries sourced from a different supplier. However, after reports emerged of incidents where these replacement phones also caught fire, Samsung recalled the Galaxy Note 7 worldwide on 10 October 2016, and permanently ceased production of the device on 11 October. Due to the recalls, Samsung has issued software updates in some markets that are intended to \"eliminate their ability to work as mobile devices\", including restricting battery capacity, and blocking their ability to connect to wireless networks. Samsung has stated that it intends to recycle reusable silicon and components from the recalled models, and release refurbished models \"where applicable\".\n\nThe recall had a major impact on Samsung's business in the third quarter of 2016, with the company projecting that its operating profits would be down by 33% in comparison to the previous quarter. Credit Suisse analysts estimated that Samsung would lose at least US$17 billion in revenue from the production and recall of the Galaxy Note 7. The Note 7 had the shortest life span of any Samsung phone.\n\nIn July 2017, 9 months after the Note7 recall, Samsung released a refurbished version of the Galaxy Note 7 called Galaxy Note Fan Edition (marketed as Samsung Galaxy Note FE). It has a smaller battery of 3200 mAh and is supplied with Android Nougat with Samsung Experience UI, the operating system of the Galaxy S8. The successor to the Galaxy Note 7, the Galaxy Note 8, was announced on 23 August 2017 and released almost a month later.\n\nThe Galaxy Note 7's hardware is similar in overall specifications and design to the Galaxy S7, with a metal and glass chassis, IP68 water resistance, and a microSD card slot. The Note 7 is equipped with an octa-core Exynos 8890 system-on-chip in most markets, and 4 GB of RAM. In China, Japan, and the United States, the Note 7 uses the quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 instead (which supports older CDMA networks that are extensively used by wireless carriers in these markets), Unlike the S7, which uses Exynos chips in this market, Canadian models of the Note 7 also use the Snapdragon 820. The Note 7 uses a USB Type-C port—marking Samsung's first mobile phone with the symmetrical connector.\n\nThe Galaxy Note 7 features a 5.7 inches (140 mm) 1440p Super AMOLED display. Similarly to the \"Edge\" models of the S6 and S7, the display curves over the side bezels of the device; the curvature allows the Note 7 to be 2.2 millimetres (0.087 in) narrower than the Galaxy Note 5. The display supports high-dynamic-range video, and is coated in Gorilla Glass 5. As with all Galaxy Note models, the device is supplied with an active stylus branded as \"S Pen\". The Note 7 stylus supports 4,096 levels of pressure sensitivity and is water resistant. The Note 7 features the same 12-megapixel rear-facing camera as the S7, with a \"Dual Pixel\" image sensor and f/1.7 aperture lens.\n\nThe Galaxy Note 7 also offers an iris recognition system, using a front-facing camera and infrared illumination. The iris scanner can be used for unlocking, and as authentication for other features of the device (such as Samsung Pay and Secure Folder). A fingerprint reader is also embedded in the home button.\n\nThe Galaxy Note 7 is supplied with Android 6.0 \"Marshmallow\" and an updated version of Samsung's proprietary TouchWiz user interface and software suite codenamed \"Project Grace\". It features an \"always-on display\" mode, which can display a clock and notifications on-screen when the device is not in use; different clock styles and support for notifications from third-party apps were added for the \"Grace\" version. The Screen off memo feature also leverages this mode, allowing users to write notes on the always-on display. The OS also features several new tools supporting the S Pen stylus, including translation, a screen magnifier, and a GIF recording tool. The previous suite of note-taking apps were also consolidated into a single Samsung Notes app.\n\nThe Galaxy Note 7 introduces a security feature known as \"Secure Folder\"; it allows users to create a private workspace, protected by an authentication method, with separate user data and apps that are sandboxed from the main system. Installed apps can be cloned into Secure Folder, and users can designate whether notifications generated by apps in the Secure Folder are displayed from outside it. Secure Folder is based on the Samsung Knox 2.7 technology, which also added the ability for enterprises to control the distribution of system updates, and improvements to mobile device management and Microsoft Exchange Server integration.\n\nThe device also introduces Samsung Pass, a platform allowing apps to provide biometric authentication using its iris scanner. Samsung reached partnerships with several major U.S. banks to explore the integration of Samsung Pass into their mobile apps.\n\nPre-orders for the Galaxy Note 7 opened the day following its unveiling, with a U.S. release on 19 August 2016. Samsung skipped the numbering of the Galaxy Note series directly from \"5\" to \"7\" to synchronize it with the flagship Galaxy S series, and the Galaxy S7 line. The company stated that consumers may have perceived the Galaxy Note models to be inferior in technology to Galaxy S models because the numbering in their names were one digit lower.\n\nPre-orders in South Korea already broke records with 200,000 plus units pre-ordered within 2 days. Samsung Canada stated that pre-orders in Canada were \"outstanding\". The demand also forced countries like Malaysia, Netherlands, Russia and Ukraine to delay their releases to September due to shortage in supply.\n\n\"TechRadar\" complimented that the Galaxy Note 7's \"rich-looking, glass-and-metal-fused design\" would \"really wow people who are upgrading from those old, plastic-clad Note 4 and Note 3 handsets\", but noted that the curved edges of the screen infrequently caused minor issues when using the stylus. The display was considered to be vibrant and well-suited for multimedia, especially due to its HDR support. Aspects of the software were also praised, including the continued trimming of Samsung's TouchWiz suite and its streamlined settings interface, and that it already included features introduced to the stock operating system as of Android \"Nougat\" (although still being initially supplied with Android \"Marshmallow\"). Of the device's new stylus-oriented features, the consolidated S Notes app, GIF recorder, and always-on display functionality were commended, but the translation tool was considered to be inferior to Google Translate. The Galaxy Note 7's battery was judged as being capable of one-and-a-half days of normal use, and it was noted that the software also featured numerous estimation and power-saving features. \"Techradar\" concluded that \"If you're going to get out of the stylus, the Note 7 is an obvious choice. The iris scanner doesn't make it a convincing enough buy on its own. Otherwise, save your money and stick with the S7 Edge.\"\n\n\"Ars Technica\" was critical of the Note 7 due to its many similarities to the Galaxy S7. The Note 7's refreshed design was commended for being smoother and more ergonomic than previous Samsung devices with curved screens, although the company was panned for using glass on the rear panel rather than metal. The S Pen was also criticized for feeling \"cheap\", describing it as a \"hollow plastic tube that would feel more at home in a 100-pack of disposable Bic pens than in an ultra-premium $850 smartphone\". The iris scanner's implementation was panned for adding additional steps to the process of unlocking the phone in comparison to the fingerprint reader, and that it does not integrate into Android's integrated authentication platforms (making it proprietary to Samsung components). Warnings regarding looking at the sensor for too long were also considered to be \"just a little scary\". TouchWiz on the Note 7 was panned for consisting mainly of \"'different for the sake of being different' changes that don't add much to the software experience\", and make the interface less consistent with third-party software by removing elements of Material design language. In conclusion, \"Ars Technica\" doubted whether the Galaxy Note series was even necessary anymore due to its increasing similarities to the main Galaxy S line, and felt that the device was priced too high, citing Chinese vendors capable of undercutting the prices of major brands while still producing phones of similar specifications.\n\nBattery defects caused many Note 7 units to overheat and combust or explode. On 10 October 2016, Samsung permanently discontinued the Galaxy Note 7 due to these repeated incidents.\n\nIn the original run of devices, the battery, produced by Samsung SDI, contained a design flaw that made electrodes on the top-right of the battery susceptible to bending. This weakened separation between positive and negative tabs of the battery, thus resulting in thermal runaway and short circuits.\n\nFollowing an official recall on 12 September 2016, the Galaxy Note 7 was re-versioned using batteries from China-based Contemporary Amperex Technology(CATL or ATL), which also supplies batteries to the IPhone. Samsung stated on 23 January 2017 that these batteries had suffered from a manufacturing defect in the welding process, which pushed electrodes up and caused damage to the separation between the positive and negative tabs. Some batteries were also missing insulation tape entirely. Samsung reported that these oversights resulted from the vendor's push to ramp up production of batteries for the replacement phones in order to meet demand.\n\nDue to the battery defects, the device is considered a hazmat product, and is prohibited from being taken on-board at any airline or bus station, even if powered off.\n\nOn 31 August 2016, it was reported that Samsung was delaying shipments of the Galaxy Note 7 in some regions to perform \"additional tests being conducted for product quality\"; this came alongside user reports of batteries exploding while charging. On 1 September 2016, South Korea's Yonhap News Agency reported that Samsung was preparing to recall the device worldwide due to these battery issues. On 2 September 2016, Samsung suspended sales of the Galaxy Note 7 and announced an informal recall, after it was found that a manufacturing defect in the phones' batteries had caused some of them to generate excessive heat, resulting in fires and explosions. A formal U.S. recall was announced on 15 September 2016. Samsung exchanged the affected phones for a new revision, which utilized batteries sourced from a different supplier. However, after reports emerged of incidents where these replacement phones also caught fire, Samsung recalled the Galaxy Note 7 worldwide on 10 October 2016, and permanently ceased production of the device on 11 October. Due to the recalls, Samsung has issued software updates in some markets that are intended to \"eliminate their ability to work as mobile devices\", including restricting battery capacity, and blocking their ability to connect to wireless networks.\n\nA company spokesperson stated that it had received 35 reports of battery failure, which \"account for less than 0.1 percent of the entire volume sold\". Samsung stated that the hazard was limited to a small fraction of phones manufactured, and released a tool on its website on 19 September to identify affected units by their unique IMEI numbers.\n\nThe U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued an advisory on 8 September 2016, that passengers should not turn on or charge these devices on board aircraft. The European Aviation Safety Agency made a similar statement on 9 September, stating that \"passengers are reminded of the need to inform the cabin crew when a device is damaged, hot, produces smoke, is lost, or falls into the seat structure.\"\n\nOn 12 September 2016, the Galaxy Note 7 was officially recalled in the U.S. by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, who advised all owners to shut down and cease all usage of the device, and return them in exchange for a replacement. On 13 September 2016, Samsung announced in newspaper advertisements that it would release a software patch to the affected Galaxy Note 7 devices in South Korea, which prevents the device from being charged beyond 60% capacity to reduce the risk of combustion.\n\nThe Galaxy Note 7 was subsequently re-issued with batteries supplied by the Chinese company Amperex Technology Limited (which also serves as the main battery supplier for the iPhone line). These replacement models, which Samsung purportedly classified as being safe, had a prominent marking on their packaging to distinguish them from the first wave of recalled units, and render all software battery indicators with green icons. Samsung was granted special permission by Google to allow this change, as it would normally violate the requirements of the Android Compatibility Definition Document (which must be met to license Google Mobile Services software and Android trademarks) for all status bar icons to only be rendered in white. Following the announcement of the recall, Verizon Wireless released a software update to Galaxy Note 7 units purchased from the carrier, which displays the aforementioned green icons on safe devices, and an embedded recall notice on affected devices when the device is plugged in. Unlike the South Korean update, it does not include a charging cut-off.\n\nSamsung reported that 80% of devices had been replaced in South Korea, and roughly 50% in Europe and North America. Only 10% of devices in the U.S. were returned, and about 50,000 devices were traded for a different model. However, Samsung stated that 95% of users chose to maintain their loyalty to the company.\n\nIn October 2016, several incidents occurred in which replacement Galaxy Note 7 phones still suffered from battery failure and combustion. A Galaxy Note 7 owner in Kentucky was hospitalized with acute bronchitis due to smoke inhalation, after his replacement device caught fire in the early morning of 4 October. The owner told a local television station that he had received a text message not meant for him from a Samsung customer service representative, which read \"Just now got this. I can try and slow him down if we think it will matter, or we just let him do what he keeps threatening to do and see if he does it\".\n\nOn 5 October 2016, a flight preparing to depart from Louisville was evacuated prior to takeoff when a passenger's replacement Galaxy Note 7, obtained from an AT&T retail outlet, began smoking and popping as they were turning it off. Samsung stated that they were working with Southwest Airlines to investigate the incident, but stated that they would be unable to confirm whether the device was a replacement model until it was recovered.\n\nOn 7 October 2016, a third replacement phone in Minnesota had reportedly caught fire in a similar manner.\n\nIn response to these incidents involving replacement phones, the United States' five major wireless carriers (AT&T Mobility and T-Mobile US on 9 October, along with Sprint Corporation, Verizon Wireless, and U.S. Cellular on 10 October) subsequently announced that they would suspend sales of the Galaxy Note 7 until further notice, pending an investigation.\n\nOn 10 October 2016, Samsung officially announced that it had \"[asked] all carrier and retail partners globally to stop sales and exchanges\" of the Galaxy Note 7, and urged all owners to power them off and \"take advantage of the remedies available, including a refund at their place of purchase\". On 11 October 2016, Samsung announced that it would permanently cease production of the Galaxy Note 7 in the interest of customer safety. Samsung began issuing special kits to package the devices for returns; they consist of an antistatic bag that the phone is to be inserted into, and three layers of boxes—the last of which is lined with ceramic fibre paper for fire protection. The shipping box also contains instructions explicitly stating that they are not to be shipped by air. Samsung stated to Vice's \"Motherboard\" that it would not repair or refurbish any of the returned phones, and that the company would \"safely dispose\" of them.\n\nFollowing Samsung's actions, the Rwanda Utilities and Regulatory Authority and the United States' Consumer Product Safety Commission issued official recalls of all units of the Galaxy Note 7. These recalls ban the sale and distribution of any Galaxy Note 7 phone within these countries. The British Royal Mail and British courier company Parcelforce announced that they would not accept or deliver any parcels containing a Galaxy Note 7. Online marketplaces eBay and Gumtree also began to pull listings selling Galaxy Note 7 devices. After the suspension of sales, Oculus VR issued an update to its software for the Samsung Gear VR virtual reality headset, which blocks its use with the Galaxy Note 7 for safety reasons. The headset had been included with some units of the phone as a promotional offer.\n\nOn 14 October 2016, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and the Department of Transportation's Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration banned the Note 7 from being taken aboard any airline flight, even if powered off. Qantas, Virgin Australia and Singapore Airlines issued similar bans, while Transport Canada issued a notice stating that the Galaxy Note 7 was banned from flights under Special Provision 137 prohibitions, banning the carriage of damaged or defective lithium-ion batteries onto flights. In response to these air travel bans, Samsung announced that it would set up dedicated kiosks at selected airports, to allow travelers to exchange or receive a refund for their Galaxy Note 7 on-site before they depart, rather than having their phone confiscated by security or airport staff.\n\nIn December 2016, a Virgin America flight from San Francisco to Boston was nearly diverted mid flight after it was discovered that a passenger on the plane had been operating a Wi-Fi hotspot with the SSID \"Samsung Galaxy Note7_1097\". However, it was later discovered that the hotspot was a hoax, and that no passenger had actually brought a Galaxy Note 7 on board.\n\nOn 4 November 2016, the New Zealand Telecommunications Forum announced that all Galaxy Note 7 phones would be banned from use on local mobile networks (Vodafone NZ, Spark NZ, 2degrees and around a dozen MVNO's) beginning 18 November, enforced via IMEI blacklist. On 30 November 2016, Samsung announced that Galaxy Note 7 devices would be banned from Australian wireless networks effective 15 December 2016.\n\nIn December 2016, Samsung announced its intent to cripple the functionality of unreturned Galaxy Note 7 phones in Canada and the United States via software updates. In Canada, an update restricted charge capacity, and blocked the phone from connecting to any wireless networks, nor use Wi-Fi or Bluetooth. In the United States, the update blocked the devices from being recharged in order to \"eliminate their ability to work as mobile devices\".\n\nVerizon announced that it would refuse to distribute this update due to the \"added risk this could pose to Galaxy Note 7 users that do not have another device to switch to\" because it would \"make it impossible to contact family, first responders or medical professionals in an emergency situation\", especially during the holiday season. On 18 December 2016, Verizon announced that they would be distributing the update on 5 January 2017. Sprint also stated that it would not distribute this update until January 2017. Verizon later announced that it would redirect all outgoing calls (excluding emergency calls) made on unreturned Galaxy Note 7 devices to a service hotline demanding that they be returned, and threatened to charge customers a fee equaling the total retail cost of the phone if they refused to comply.\n\nOn 9 January 2017, Samsung released another update in South Korea, blocking the device from being charged beyond 15%.\n\nOn 24 March 2017, Samsung released yet another update for South Korea users, barring charging of the Galaxy Note 7.\n\n\"The Verge\" criticized Samsung's overall handling of the battery faults and recall, arguing that the company had initially delivered unclear messaging over whether the devices were still safe to use, as well as its slow communication with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, which had the capacity to issue an official recall in the U.S. The arguments were based on data released on 13 September 2016 by the research firm Apteligent, which stated that Galaxy Note 7 usage had been \"almost exactly the same\" since the announcement of the exchange program. \"The Verge\" also noted that the U.S. government's ban on taking Galaxy Note 7 phones aboard airline flights was \"perhaps unprecedented\", acknowledging that only the ban of hoverboards by individual airlines for similar reasons—an entire class of products (albeit one that was \"admittedly fire-prone because of cheap materials\")—came close to a legal ban for a single consumer product in terms of overall magnitude. Kyle Weins of \"Wired.com\" felt that Samsung switched to non-removable batteries in order to imitate the industrial design of Apple, after having used removable batteries on many of its past models (such as the Galaxy Note 4). He argued that this design decision exacerbated the battery faults of the Note 7, by requiring users to replace the entire phone as opposed to just the battery. He suggested that in the future, Samsung could \"lead the pack\" by switching back to removable batteries, as with other \"responsible\" OEMs such as HP Inc. and LG Electronics.\n\nAnalysts argued that the recall had hurt Samsung's brand, and would likely cause the company to lose its market share to competitors, including Apple and Google (which had recently unveiled their iPhone 7 and Pixel models), and other Android vendors. Credit Suisse analysts predicted that the recall and discontinuation would cause Samsung to lose nearly US$17 billion in revenue. On 12 October 2016, Samsung revised its earnings forecast for the third quarter of 2016, estimating a 33% drop in operating profits in comparison to the second quarter of 2016, and revenue expectations cut by ₩2 trillion to ₩47 trillion (US$41.8 billion).\n\nOn 18 October 2016, McCuneWright LLP sued Samsung and filed a proposed class-action lawsuit over its handling of the recall, stating that the company had \"failed to reimburse consumers for monthly costs associated with owning an unusable Note 7\". Samsung was also criticized by customers affected by the exploding phones, who alleged that the company was refusing to compensate them for property damage caused by the explosions.\n\nIn the wake of the recall, Samsung, as well as UL LLC, Exponent, and TÜV Rheinland performed internal testing and analysis to determine the exact causes of the defects. Samsung released its official findings on 23 January 2017. Concurrently, the company announced that all of its future battery-operated products would become subject to an \"enhanced\" eight-point inspection and testing protocol, including stricter visual inspections, as well as charge and discharge tests, Total Volatile Organic Compound tests, and accelerated usage tests. An advisory board of academics was also formed.\n\nConcerns were also raised over the creation of electronic waste resulting from Samsung's announced plan to destroy all returned phones, rather than recycle and refurbish them into new products. In February 2017, \"Korea Economic Daily\" reported that Samsung had been considering refurbishing the Galaxy Note 7 into a modified version with lower battery capacity, and targeted toward markets such as Vietnam. A representative of Samsung India denied these reports. Greenpeace disrupted a press conference by Samsung at Mobile World Congress to protest the company's unclear plans for the recalled devices. On 27 March 2017, Samsung announced that it now intends to extract reusable parts such as metal, semiconductors, and cameras from the recalled devices, and market refurbished devices \"where applicable\".\n\nAfter the discontinuation of the Note 7, some features in the device (such as Samsung Pass, Secure Folder, S Pen related features, and Grace UX) were eventually made available in Marshmallow (e.g. Galaxy A8 (2016), Galaxy A (2017) series and Galaxy Tab A 10.1 (2016)) and Nougat (e.g. Galaxy Note 5 (via software update), Galaxy S8/S8+ and Galaxy C Pro series)\n\nIn June 2017, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported on Samsung's plan to refurbish its inventory of recalled phones and release them with a new model designation of Galaxy Note FE, with the \"FE\" referencing \"Fan Edition.\" The phone was also rumored to be named as the Note 7R, with the R referencing \"refurbished\". This phone was released on the 7th of July in South Korea, with limited availability in other countries to follow, and a price of $610; being a $255 discount from the price of the Note 7.\n\nThe Fan Edition has a smaller battery of 3200 mAh and multiple safety features. It has a \"Fan Edition\" logo on the back. The software is identical to that of the S8. It has a similar UI and includes Bixby home and reminders but not the whole Bixby assistant. Samsung introduced an eight-point battery check after the Note7 to make sure all of their batteries are safe for new and current devices in production. There have been no reported incidents of an S8/S8+ catching fire after their release as the first new flagship device to go through the eight-point battery check. There have been no reported incidents of the successor Note 8 catching fire either.\n\nAfter the Fan Edition was released in South Korea, the Galaxy Note FE was also released in select countries in Asia starting in October 2017.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2416041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2416041", "title": "The Prague Post", "text": "The Prague Post\n\nThe Prague Post was an English language newspaper covering the Czech Republic and Central and Eastern Europe which published its first weekly issue on October 1, 1991. It published a printed edition weekly until July, 2013 when it dropped the printed product to focus on its online platforms, including the website PraguePost.com, a Kindle edition and online subscriptions.. In 2016 Prague Post filed for bankruptcy.\n\nCompared to other Prague-based English newspapers, Prognosis 1991-1995 and Prague Pill 2001-2003 —the Prague Post was the longest running English-language newspaper in the Czech Republic. Its target audience included English-speaking expatriates living in the Czech Republic or neighboring countries, Czech readers seeking news from an international perspective and tourists visiting the Czech Republic. With a print run of about 19,000 copies, The Prague Post reached approximately 40,000 readers a week with its print edition published every Wednesday. In 2013, The Prague Post ceased its print edition and moved to an online-only format. Its website at its peak had 40,000 unique users generating 150,000 page views per month.\n\nThe history of the newspaper began in Prague, two years after the Velvet Revolution, specifically in 1991.\n\n\"The Prague Post\" was an English-language information source in the Czech Republic through its newspaper, and related products and services.\n\n\"The Prague Post\" newspaper was published by Prague Post, spol. s r.o. (spol. s r.o. = Ltd.).\n\nIn July 1991, Lisa Frankenberg and Kent Hawryluk, two employees of \"Prognosis\", an English-language monthly newspaper in Prague which began publication in March 1991, came to the realization that there was a ripe market in the then Czechoslovakia for a weekly broadsheet newspaper.\n\nTogether with Monroe Luther, an investor from Houston, Texas, they formed Lion’s Share Group, a privately held, Czech limited-liability company (spol s r.o.) that was created to be the information leader in the region. Kent Hawryluk served as Founding Publisher and Lisa Frankenberg as Founding General Manager. Other programs introduced at that time were the Business Network, Lion’s Share Group Publishing and the Prague Post Foundation (set up separately as a Czech-registered, non-profit foundation, and which later became The Prague Post Endowment Fund with the change in Czech nonprofit laws).\n\nThe mission of \"The Prague Post\" was simple and direct: to publish the best possible English-language newspaper for and about the rapidly changing Czechoslovakia and more broadly, Central Europe. The aim was to place particular emphasis on news, business, and cultural listings.\n\nAlan Levy, a foreign correspondent for the International Herald Tribune and author of \"So Many Heroes\", an eyewitness account of the 1968 Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia, was hired as the Founding Editor-in-Chief. The original staff hired by Levy included former reporters and editors from a wide range of magazines and daily newspapers, including the \"Sacramento Bee\", \"Sacramento Union\", \"The New York Review of Books\", \"Business International\", the \"Grinnell Herald-Register\", \"Fortune\" magazine and the \"Tampa Tribune\".\n\nLion’s Share Group established the wholly owned subsidiary company Prague Post s.r.o. in March 1994 to take over the publishing of the newspaper, while Lion’s Share Group became a holding company.\n\n1991\n\n\"The Prague Post\", located in a small room off Old Town Square in Prague, debuted with a 12-page issue on 1 October 1991. The first paper covered news and business, offered a weekly calendar of listings and included a regular pub guide.\n\nIn late 1991, the paper moved to larger offices on Politických vězňů, off Wenceslas Square, and increased to 16 pages.\n\n1992\nIn February 1992, \"Night & Day\", a redesigned and enlarged cultural listings section, was introduced. A regular features page concentrating on in-depth news, culture and lifestyle articles debuted in early May 1992.\n\nThe paper underwent extensive redesign, increased to 24 pages, switched street delivery days from Tuesdays to Wednesdays and moved printing operations to Frankfurt, Germany, on 18 November 1992. This enabled it to offer color capability to advertisers, higher quality print resolution and more timely international distribution. Several new regular sections appeared at this time including sports, \"The Big Picture\", a page devoted to news from Central and Eastern European regions and \"East View\", a column of material from other English-language newspapers in Central and Eastern Europe.\n\nKent Hawryluk’s day-to-day involvement with the newspaper ended in December 1992, and Lisa Frankenberg took over the responsibilities of publisher. An additional suite of rooms was added to the offices at Politických vězňů and the staff continued to expand, along with the company’s investment in computers and publishing equipment.\n\n1993\nA monthly supplement devoted to special news coverage about Slovakia and entertainment listings for Bratislava was introduced in January, 1993, but was later curtailed as reporting became more difficult in Slovakia. In July 1993, \"Summer in the City\" was published as a tabloid insert for the remaining weeks of the summer. The tabloid included up-to-the-minute travel information for tourists, filling in where the guidebooks left off.\n\n\"The Prague Post\" launched special pullout sections on 1 September 1993: \"Money & Markets,\" \"Travel & Leisure\" and \"Real Estate.\" These sections, aimed at providing expert, specialized coverage, appeared on the first, second and third weeks of the month, respectively. The remaining week(s) of each month were filled with a series of special topics, including \"Computers & Technology\", \"The Modern Office\", \"Human Resources\" and \"Fashion.\" The special sections have changed and evolved over the years in response to readers’ needs.\n\nThe newspaper moved into newly reconstructed offices in the historic YMCA building at Na Poříčí 12 on 1 December 1993.\n\n1994\n\"The Prague Post\" underwent a significant redesign on January 19, 1994, transforming the second section into the tabloid-size pullout \"Night & Day\". This newly designed pullout consisted of articles detailing culture, features, listings, and a Prague Profile. It also introduced several new additions such as the Service Page, Ask Eva (an advice column), My Gene Pool (a cartoon strip) and reviews. The front section of the paper, consisting of news, business, sports and opinion also received a design improvement at this time.\n\nLater in 1994, \"Night & Day\" increased in size to include the classifieds section. At this time, the business editorial department also began publishing weekly researched industry lists that are included in the annual Book of Lists.\n\n1995\nThe 1995 \"Book of Lists\", under development throughout 1994, was published in early 1995. An updated version of the \"Book of Lists\" was published annually until 2000.\n\nIn 1995 the paper continued to grow in all areas as advertising revenue increased. The Prague Post began sponsoring two well-known events: the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival and the Valtice Arts Festival.\n\n1996\n\"The Prague Post\" celebrated its 5th Anniversary on 28 September 1996, with a black-tie, gala evening at Národní Dům na Vinohradech, attended by over 1,000 guests with dignitaries, including five ambassadors, past and present employees and clients. This Gala event was a memorable evening, aptly marking a significant occasion in the life of the newspaper and its importance in the market.\n\n\"The Prague Post\" added sponsorship of the Prague International Marathon in the summer of 1996, and published a 12-page, four-color tabloid Holiday Shopping Guide for the month of December.\n\n1997\nIn April 1997, \"The Prague Post\" was awarded first place for ‘Excellence in Newspaper Marketing’ by the International Newspaper Marketing Association for an in-house marketing campaign.\n\nOn 1 April 1997, \"The Prague Post\" launched its website at www.praguepost.cz (today it is \"www.praguepost.com\"). The initial site offered several top stories from the weekly newspaper as well as information for tourists and relocation information for people planning to move to Prague. It quickly gained a significant following, particularly with readers based outside the Czech Republic.\n\n1998\nIn May, 1998, Lisa Frankenberg returned from business school to resume an active role in the day-to-day operations of the newspaper as President and Publisher.\n\n1999\nThe newspaper underwent another significant redesign near the end of 1999. Randy Stano, winner of two Pulitzer prizes for design, was recruited to undertake the process of re-designing the newspaper. \"The Prague Post\" was granted an Award of Excellence for re-design by the Society of News Design.\n\nThe offices of \"The Prague Post\" were relocated to a two-story office space at Štěpánská 20 in Prague 1.\n\n2000\nSince its strong debut, \"The Prague Post\" has attracted much international media coverage, with articles about the paper and its staff appearing in \"USA Today\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The New York Times\", \"Smithsonian\", \"Fortune\", \"The Columbia Journalism Review\", \"Advertising Age\", \"The European\" and \"Telegraph\" of London. In addition, the newspaper was profiled on BBC, NBC, CBS (60 Minutes and the CBS Evening News) and ABC (Prime Time Live and the ABC Evening News).\n\n\"The Prague Post\" was re-launched with its new design and format on 19 January 2000. Printing of the newspaper was moved from Frankfurt to a printing house in Prague.\n\n2001\n\"The Prague Post\" received three design awards from the Society of News Design in 2001. The website was re-designed and re-launched in the autumn 2001. Its new face attracted new and existing readers with an estimated 10,000 hits per day.\n\n2002-2003\n\"The Prague Post\" introduced a successful new product – \"Dining Out Guide\" – first published in 2003. It is a guide to the finest culinary experiences in Prague.\n\n2004\nOn 2 April 2004 Alan Levy died, aged 72. Two weeks later, \"The Prague Post\" said goodbye to its founding editor-in-chief in a public memorial service attended by numerous personalities of Czech political, business and cultural life.\n\n2005\nThe company also worked toward improving the quality of the paper and the services provided, including the rest of its publishing portfolio – the \"Book of Lists\" and \"Dining Out Guide\".\n\n2006\nIn 2006, \"The Prague Post\" proudly celebrated its 15th birthday. The night was in recognition of The Prague Post’s long-standing tradition as a reputable English-language newspaper in the Czech Republic.\n\nFormer and current staff were recognized on the night for their contributions to the development and growth of the Czech Republic’s oldest and most popular English-language newspaper. Alan Levy was remembered and recognized on the night for his years of service and dedication to the paper.\n\n2007\nIn 2007, two new supplements were added to the newspaper. The \"Luxury Hotel Guide\" was designed to provide an in-depth look into the luxury hotels around Prague, while the \"Weddings\" supplement offers insight into all facets of wedding planning.\n\nIn 2007, \"The Prague Post\" also helped with the revival of English-language theater in Prague with the launching of the first annual Prague Post Playwriting Contest.\n\n2008\nThe Prague Post launches a digital edition for Amazon Kindle, the first paper in the Czech Republic to do so. Web vendor Amazon ranks it as the best-selling Czech newspaper in the Czech Republic on the device.\n\n2010\nThe Prague Post Blogs section was launched, offering additional content not published in the newspaper on topics including politics, food, film, books, music, news and education.\n\n2013\n\"The Prague Post\" stops issuing a print version and moves to online-only distribution.\n\n2016\n\"The Prague Post\" files with the Czech insolvency registry Prague Post closes operations due to bankruptcy. PraguePost.Com is no longer an active website.\n\nThe \"Prague Post\" has won a number of European awards for its innovative newspaper design. In November 2007, the paper saw a fifth consecutive win in the category of “Front Page Weekly Newspaper” as well as a Portfolio award for Design Editor Caroline Wren at the European Newspaper Awards.\n\n“Layout has always been very important for us,” commented then managing editor Will Tizard. “It is necessary to reflect our progressive reporting style from various fields in the layout,\" he said, adding “we are very proud of Caroline Wren's work.” \n\nIn 2010, the paper won Best Sectional Front Page at the same event for its Tempo cover story on guerrilla knitting, \"Going Rogue\".\n\nPast writers and other staff of The Prague Post have gone on to a wide range of positions in the international media as well as in other sectors. Here are some examples.\n\nMark Baker, the paper's first business editor, is the author of a number of travel guides, including books for \"Lonely Planet\" on Prague, the Czech Republic and Slovakia as well as guides for \"Frommer's\", \"Fodor's\" and \"National Geographic Society\" among others.\n\nDouglas Lytle served various roles at The Prague Post from 1991 until 1994 including managing editor. He is the author of Pink Tanks & Velvet Hangovers (North Atlantic Books/Frog Ltd) and bureau chief for \"Bloomberg News\" in the Czech Republic and Slovakia and an editor for Eastern Europe.\n\nWill Tizard, former managing editor, is Central/Eastern Europe correspondent for \"Variety\" and the author and editor of several travel guides including the \"Time Out Prague Guide\" and \"\". He is also a journalism and documentary professor at Anglo-American University and documentary film maker based in the Czech Republic.\n\nRoss Larsen was deputy news editor, news editor and senior editor at the Prague Post from 1992 to 1999. He later worked for search engine AltaVista in California and Dow Jones Newswires in London. He now works as an editor for Bloomberg News' EMEA Real Estate team in London.\n\nMichael Mainville was a reporter at The Prague Post from 2001 to 2002. He now works as the Caucasus correspondent for \"Agence France-Presse\".\n\nDean Calbreath was business editor of The Prague Post from 1993 to 1996. He is currently a reporter and columnist with \"The San Diego Union-Tribune\" and was part of an investigative reporting team that won the 2006 Pulitzer Prize.\n\nMichael Wann, the technology and science editor for \"Msnbc.com\", is a former managing editor of The Prague Post.\n\nSiegfried Mortkowitz was a news reporter and columnist for The Prague Post from 1996 to 2001. He went on to work for \"Newsweek\" and later returned to Prague after working for 10 years as the Paris correspondent for the German Press Agency (\"Deutsche Presse-Agentur\").\n\nDinah A. Spritzer served a variety of editorial roles for The Prague Post from 2001 to 2005. She presently writes on Central and Eastern Europe for \"The New York Times\", \"USA Today\" and the \"Jewish Telegraphic Agency\". She also teaches international reporting at New York University in Prague.\n\nJames Pitkin was a former copy editor, culture editor and news reporter with The Prague Post. He went on to work for \"Willamette Week\", an alternative newspaper in Portland, Oregon.\n\nRichard Andrade was a designer with The Prague Post from 1993-1996. Since 1999 he has been the Founder and CEO of BarristerBooks, Inc., the entity which operates the Internet's largest network of independent legal academic bookstores.\n\nMichele Legge was a Prague Post reporter from 1995 to 1999. She now manages media for the Australian \"Department of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs\" in Canberra.\n\nAndrew Greene was a business reporter and news reporter with The Prague Post from 2012-2013. He has resumed his position as a political reporter with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation in Canberra.\n\nThe Prague Post Endowment Fund began as the Prague Post Foundation, a local non-profit organization founded in 1992. The goals were to enrich education and foster a place for the non-profit sector in the Czech Republic. Originally the PPF published a weekly column, \"Networking,\" which was the only source of news and information about the newly developing Czech Civil Society and non-profit sector. It also provided bi-weekly English-language education programs based on \"The Prague Post\" newspaper for secondary schools throughout the Czech Republic and Slovakia.\n\nIn 1997, Czech laws changed to recognize the increasing role of non-profit organizations. The Prague Post Foundation became The Prague Post Endowment Fund. Educational materials were sent along with \"The Prague Post\" to more than 60 schools throughout the Czech Republic. The Fund provided scholarships and supported young journalists.\n\n\"The Prague Post\" Playwriting Contest started in 2007 with the goal of bringing together artists and the theater-going community. For its inaugural year, more than 100 scripts were submitted. Organized in conjunction with The Prague Playhouse, a local English-language theater company, the contest theater entertainment for the expat community and also sought to help galvanize local writers, actors, producers and directors.\n\n"}
{"id": "38607107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38607107", "title": "Transforming Stories International Christian Film Festival", "text": "Transforming Stories International Christian Film Festival\n\nTransforming Stories International Christian Film Festival (TSICFF) is an annual Christian film industry film festival held in South Africa. The festival is funded by Humble Pie Entertainment. In 2010, the festival's inaugural year, the award ceremony took place in Johannesburg, South Africa. Screenings took place in five different cities across the country. 18 countries submitted a total of 108 films, 12 of which were chosen as semi-finalists from which 5 became finalists. Awards were presented for Best Feature Film, Best Documentary Film, and Best Short Film. Greg Laurie's \"Lost Boy: The Next Chapter\" won the Best Documentary Film Award. In 2011, 19 countries participated, submitting a total of 190 films. Ryley Grunenwald's \"The Dawn of a New Day\" was named Best Documentary.\n"}
{"id": "1412147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1412147", "title": "Week of Prayer for Christian Unity", "text": "Week of Prayer for Christian Unity\n\nThe Week of Prayer for Christian Unity is an international Christian ecumenical observance kept annually between 18 January and 25 January. It is an octave, that is, an observance lasting eight days.\n\nThe Week of Prayer for Christian Unity began in 1908 as the Octave of Christian Unity, and focused on prayer for church unity. The dates of the week were proposed by Father Paul Wattson, cofounder of the Graymoor Franciscan Friars. He conceived of the week beginning on the Feast of the Confession of Peter, the Protestant variant of the ancient Feast of the Chair of Saint Peter, on 18 January, and concluding with the Feast of the Conversion of Saint Paul on 25 January.\n\nPope Pius X officially blessed the concept, and Benedict XV \"encouraged its observance throughout the entire Roman Catholic Church.\" For a while, the observance was renamed the \"Chair of Unity Octave\" by Wattson, in order to emphasize the relationship between Christian unity and the Petrine See (\"i.e.\", the papacy).\n\nProtestant leaders in the mid-1920s also proposed an annual octave of prayer for unity amongst Christians, leading up to Pentecost Sunday (the traditional commemoration of the establishment of the Church).\n\nAbbé Paul Couturier of Lyons, France, who has been called \"the father of spiritual ecumenism\", had a slightly different approach from that of Father Wattson, a convert to Roman Catholicism from Anglicanism. He advocated prayer \"for the unity of the Church as Christ wills it, and in accordance with the means he wills\", thereby enabling other Christians with differing views of the Petrine ministry to join in the prayer. In 1935, he proposed naming the observance \"Universal Week of Prayer for Christian Unity\", a proposal accepted by the Catholic Church in 1966. Father Couturier's message influenced a Sardinian nun, Blessed Sister Maria Gabriella of Unity, whose deep, prayerful, sacrificial devotion to the cause of unity is held up by Rome as an example to be followed.\n\nIn 1941, the Faith and Order Conference changed the date for observing the week of unity prayer to that observed by Catholics. In 1948, with the founding of the World Council of Churches, the Week of Prayer for Christian Unity became increasingly recognised by different churches throughout the world.\n\nIn 1958, the French Catholic group Unité Chrétienne and the Faith and Order Commission of the World Council of Churches (a body which includes, among others, most of the world's Orthodox churches as well as many Anglican, Baptist, Lutheran, Methodist, Reformed, United and Independent churches) begin co-operative preparation of materials for the Week of Prayer. The year 1968 saw the first official use of materials prepared jointly by the Faith and Order Commission and the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity, representing the entire Catholic Church. Collaboration and cooperation between these two organizations has increased steadily since, resulting recently in joint publications in the same format.\n\nIn the Southern Hemisphere, where January is a vacation time, churches often find other days to celebrate the week of prayer, for example around Pentecost (as originally suggested by the Faith and Order movement in 1926, and Pope Leo XIII in 1894), which is also a symbolic date for the unity of the church.\n\nThe 2008 Week of Prayer for Christian Unity was celebrated as the centennial. For the 2012 Week, the biblical text 1 Corinthians 15:51 was chosen with the theme \"We will all be changed\". The 2016 Week is provided by the Churches of Latvia and the theme is that all Christians are 'Called to proclaim the mighty acts of the Lord'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53734547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53734547", "title": "X-Men Gold", "text": "X-Men Gold\n\nX-Men Gold is an ongoing comic book published twice monthly by Marvel Comics and initially created by writer Marc Guggenheim and artist Ardian Syaf. This series builds off of plot points established in \"X-Men Prime\". The first issue was released April 5, 2017 with the last issue released on September 19 2018\n\n\"X-Men Gold\" and its sister book, \"X-Men Blue\", were created following the crossover series \"Inhumans vs. X-Men\". The new titles were announced October 21, 2016 as part of the ResurrXion brand. The color-coded names are a reference to storylines from the early 1990s when various comics in the X-Men franchise were best-sellers. The first issue was released April 5, 2017 and subsequent issues were released twice monthly. In February 2018, the spin-off sister book \"X-Men Red\" was released. In September 2018, the series will end at issue 36.\n\nThe series begins with politician Lydia Nance justifying why she's so strongly against mutants during a televised interview. Meanwhile, Kitty Pryde leads her new team of X-Men against Terrax as civilians gather to watch the battle. After the battle ends and Terrax is subdued Kitty attempts to address the onlookers with a speech about how the X-Men can be heroes for everyone, but is unsuccessful as the public view of the X-Men has been darkened ever since their feud with the Inhumans. Kitty faces even more hardships when the government provides her with an increasing amount of paperwork due to the X-Men now living in Central Park. After almost having an awkward reunion with Colossus, Prestige informs the team that a group of mutants are attacking the city. The X-Men arrive at the United Nations building and find it under attack by a brand new Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, now including the X-Men's old ally Magma. During the ensuing battle Mesmero captures Logan and the Brotherhood teleports away. S.H.I.E.L.D. arrives on the scene and shows Kitty footage of Nance using the X-Men's fight against the Brotherhood as a means of stirring up paranoia of an impending race-war. The Brotherhood only fuels Nance's anti-mutant stance further when they announce that they kidnapped the mayor and intend to execute him in 24 hours, leading to Nance suggesting mutant-deportation. Logan attempts to escape but ends up under Mesmero's mind-control. The X-Men find the Brotherhood's base and Logan attempts to ambush them until Storm manages to subdue him. Prestige manages to defeat Mesmero, and it's revealed that Magma was under his control. Not knowing what's real and what isn't anymore, she attacks Kitty and almost burns the whole building down. Kitty manages to get through to her and together they all escape the building and S.H.I.E.L.D. arrests the remainder of the Brotherhood. After Prestige realizes that the entire Brotherhood was under Mesmero's control after he was employed by Nance to stir up anti-mutant hysteria by any means necessary, the X-Men visit Nance personally and threaten to expose her if she continues her campaign.\n\nGambit is hired to steal a supposedly empty vial. Upon returning to his new employer he realizes that it's Olivia Trask, granddaughter of Bolivar Trask. Gambit then angrily discovers that the vial actually isn't empty and is home to a bunch of nanites. Gambit attempts to destroy the vial so Trask can't use them but the nanites escape and take on the form of a brand new breed of Sentinel. Gambit calls the X-Men for help. Storm manages to rescue Gambit just before the Sentinel is able to kill him. While the rest of the X-Men clear civilians, Kitty uses her phasing power to disrupt the Sentinel. As it dissipates Prestige falls unconscious due to massive psychic backlash, revealing that this new Sentinel is self-aware and is capable of learning from past encounters. Lydia Nance uses this latest incident to label the X-Men as terrorists as their fight against the Sentinel caused major damage to a nearby skyscraper. Meanwhile, the Sentinel reforms and uses a telepathic attack to kill everyone with genetic differences instead of only mutants. S.H.I.E.L.D. and other heroes soon join the X-Men to help disperse the crowd and fight off the exponentially increasing onslaught. While unconscious, Prestige telepathically discusses her fears of what the future given her own history and legacy with astral versions of her deceased family. Upon waking up she unleashes the full magnitude of her powers to destroy the Sentinel's consciousness, leaving her unsure of how using her powers like that will affect her in the future. As the X-Men and other heroes leave after making sure all of the civilians are safe, the Sentinel begins to discreetly reform underneath the rubble.\n\nColossus took on critical injuries during the battle against the Sentinel that left him unable to change his body into steel. Prestige kisses Nightcrawler after having figured out his attraction to her given the stronger nature of her psychic powers. Before they can discuss their blossoming relationship further they realize that Manhattan is becoming shrouded in the Darkforce dimension. After communing with Dr. Strange about what to do Kitty sends Storm, Logan, and Nightcrawler to handle crowd control. Nightcrawler immediately gets attacked by a frightened mob who thinks he's one of the Darkforce demons. Meanwhile, the X-Men learn that a serial killer has infiltrated the mansion in the chaos and has started killing the students. It's revealed that the killer is a new X-Cutioner and just as he's about to murder Eye-Boy he's discovered by Kitty, Colossus, and Prestige. X-Cutioner shoots directly at Colossus. Prestige manages to divert his attack and allow Kitty a chance to fight him. Logan and Storm manage to disperse the mob beating Nightcrawler and find him miraculously alive despite the severe and lethal nature of his injuries; Nightcrawler claims that Heaven won't accept him after he escaped the first time. Kitty ends up fighting X-Cutioner on her own after everyone else is evacuated from the mansion. Before beating him she learns that mutants killed his wife and son and blames all mutants for fighting each other with no regard for humans in the crossfire. He shoots at Kitty but Colossus intercepts the shot with his shoulder. After X-Cutioner is arrested Kitty receives a congressional summons for a meeting about a new bill regarding mutant deportation.\n\nIn Russia, a resurrection ritual begins taking place. Back in the States, Kitty and Colossus travel to Washington DC where they rendezvous with Stevie Hunter, who now works in Congress. Stevie helps prepare Kitty and Peter for the meeting. Meanwhile, Rachel and Kurt finally go on their first date together and discuss Rachel's fears of what her heightened powers after the Sentinel incident may mean for her future. After Kitty speaks to the congressmen, Peter invites her to dinner where they acknowledge that there is still an attraction between them leading to Peter suggesting that if they were to get back together then the only way they could move forward is via eventual marriage. The next day Kitty returns to speak with Congress again but the meeting is interrupted by Whiplash, who has a grudge against Congress and attempts to assassinate them. Even though Kitty and Peter manage to stop him and save the congressmen, Stevie later on regretfully inform them that it didn't change their minds and they're still going to pass the bill on mutant deportation. Back in Russia, it is revealed that Omega Red has come back to life.\n\nOmega Red adjusts to his newly resurrected life but knows that the resurrection is only temporary, causing him to seek out a way for the resurrection to remain permanent. A short while later Colossus receives a mysterious phone call from an uncle he never met named Anatoly Rasputin, who informs Colossus about Omega Red's mysterious resurrection. Colossus and Magik take the X-Men to Russia with them to survey their meeting with Anatoly. Shortly after Colossus and Magik meet Anatoly, they are ambushed by monsters imbued with magic. As the rest of the X-Men reveal themselves and join in the fight, Illyana ends up captured as and the mob leaves. It is soon revealed that Omega Red needs Illyana's powers as Magik in order for his resurrection to remain permanent. Peter agrees to let Anatoly lead him to the rest of the mob so they can find Magik, but once they find the mob Anatoly double crosses him. Peter and Nightcrawler manage to find Magik and free her. Omega Red meanwhile ambushes Logan, Storm, and Kitty. After easily defeating Storm and Kitty he fights Logan, seeking vengeance for Logan having killed him in the past. Logan manages to best Omega Red again. As Magik tries to interrogate Anatoly he uses his own magic abilities to fight back and almost kills her until Peter finally becomes able to reuse his abilities again and stops his uncle. After Anatoly is arrested for his crimes with the Russian mob, Kitty and Peter officially get back together as a couple.\n\nAccording to review aggregator Comic Book Roundup, the first issue received an average score of 7.7 out of 10 based on 29 critical reviews.\n\nIn the first issue, Colossus wears a shirt with \"QS 5:51\" printed on the chest. It represents a verse from the Qur'an, Surah Al-Ma'idah 5 verse 51, which reads: \nThe verse was topical at the time of printing in Jakarta, Indonesia, where penciller Syaf lives. During the governor election in Jakarta, the sitting governor, Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, was being attacked by opponents for being a minority Chinese Christian. The Qur'an verse QS 5:51 was being used as justification to pressure Muslim voters not to vote for a non-Muslim leader such as Basuki Tjahaja Purnama. Syaf admitted on Facebook to have participated in these protests and drew this scene after attending one. \nOn April 8, 2017, Marvel released a statement via ComicBook.com.\nAs a result of his actions, Syaf was terminated from his position at Marvel.\n\n"}
