{"id": "47431319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47431319", "title": "1985 in Sri Lanka", "text": "1985 in Sri Lanka\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1985 in Sri Lanka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24150726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24150726", "title": "20th-century events", "text": "20th-century events\n\nThe 20th-century events include many notable events which occurred throughout the 20th century, which began on January 1, 1901, and ended on December 31, 2000, according to the Gregorian calendar.\n\nIn Europe, the British Empire achieved the height of its power. Germany and Italy, which came into existence as unified nations in the second half of the 19th century, grew in power, challenging the traditional hegemony of Britain and France. With nationalism in full force at this time, the European powers competed with each other for land, military strength and economic power. On the very first day of the century, January 1st 1901, the British colonies of New South Wales, Tasmania, Queensland, South Australia, Victoria, and Western Australia, federated to become the nation of Australia.\n\nAsia and Africa were for the most part still under control of their European colonizers. The major exceptions were China and Japan. The Russo-Japanese War in 1904-1905 was the first major instance of a European power being defeated by a so-called inferior nation. The war itself strengthened Japanese militarism and enhanced using economic backwardness, and contributed to the Russian Revolution of 1905, the dress rehearsal for the conclusive one in 1917.\n\nAlready in the 19th century, the United States had become an influential actor in world politics. It had made its presence known on the world stage by challenging Spain in the Spanish–American War, gaining the colonies of Puerto Rico and the Philippines as protectorates. Now, with growth in immigration and a resolution of the national unity issue through the bloody American Civil War, America was emerging as an industrial power as well, rivaling Britain, Germany, and France.\n\nWith increasing rivalry among the European powers and the rise of Japan and the United States, the stage was set for a major upheaval in world affairs.\n\nThe Wright brothers invent the airplane in 1903.\n\nFrom 1914 to 1918, the First World War, and its aftermath, caused major changes in the power balance of the world, destroying or transforming some of the most powerful empires.\n\nThe First World War (or simply WWI), termed \"The Great War\" by contemporaries, started in 1914 and ended in 1918. It was ignited by the Assassination in Sarajevo of the Austro-Hungarian Empire's heir to the throne, Erzherzog Franz Ferdinand, by Gavrilo Princip of the organization \"Young Bosnia,\" Bosnian Serbs' liberation movement. Bound by Slavic nationalism to help the small Serbian state, the Russians came to the aid of the Serbs when they were attacked. Interwoven alliances, an increasing arms race, and old hatreds dragged Europe into the war. The Allies, known initially as \"The Triple Entente\", comprised the British Empire, France and Russia. Germany, Austria-Hungary, Italy, Bulgaria, and later the Ottoman Empire, were known as \"The Central Powers\".\n\nIn 1917, Russia ended hostile actions against the Central Powers after the fall of the Tsar. The Bolsheviks negotiated the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk with Germany, although it was at huge cost to Russia. In the treaty, Bolshevik Russia ceded the Baltic States to Germany, and its province of Kars Oblast in the south Caucasus to the Ottoman Empire. It also recognized the independence of Ukraine. Although Germany shifted huge forces from the eastern to the western front after signing the treaty, it was unable to stop the Allied advance, especially with the entrance of American troops in 1918.\n\nThe war itself was also a chance for the combatant nations to show off their military strength and technological ingenuity. The Germans introduced the machine gun, U-Boats and deadly gases. The British first used the tank. Both sides had a chance to test out their new aircraft to see if they could be used in warfare. It was widely believed that the war would be short. Unfortunately, since trench warfare was the best form of defense, advances on both sides were very slow, and came at a terrible cost in lives.\n\nWhen the war was finally over in 1918, the results would set the stage for the next twenty years. First and foremost, the Germans were forced to sign the Treaty of Versailles, forcing them to make exorbitant payments to repair damages caused during the War. Many Germans felt these reparations were unfair because they did not actually \"lose\" the war nor did they feel they caused the war (see Stab-in-the-back legend). Germany was never occupied by Allied troops, yet it had to accept a liberal democratic government imposed on it by the victors after the abdication of Kaiser Wilhelm.\n\nMuch of the map of Europe was redrawn by the victors based upon the theory that future wars could be prevented if all ethnic groups had their own \"homeland\". New states like Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia were created out of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire to accommodate the nationalist aspirations of these groups. An international body called the League of Nations was formed to mediate disputes and prevent future wars, although its effectiveness was severely limited by, among other things, its reluctance and inability to act.\n\nThe Russian Revolution of 1918 (ending in the overthrow of the Tsarist regime and the brutal execution of His Imperial Majesty Nicholas II and his family) sparked a wave of communist revolutions across Europe, prompting many to believe that a socialist world revolution could be realized in the near future. However, the European revolutions were defeated, Vladimir Lenin died in 1924, and within a few years, Joseph Stalin displaced Leon Trotsky as the \"de facto\" leader of the Soviet Union. The idea of worldwide revolution was no longer in the forefront, as Stalin concentrated on \"socialism in one country\" and embarked on a bold plan of collectivization and industrialization. The majority of socialists and even many communists became disillusioned with Stalin's autocratic rule, his purges and the assassination of his \"enemies\", as well as the news of famines he imposed on his own people.\n\nCommunism was strengthened as a force in Western democracies when the global economy crashed in 1929 in what became known as the Great Depression. Many people saw this as the first stage of the end of the capitalist system and were attracted to Communism as a solution to the economic crisis, especially as the Soviet Union's economic development in the 1930s was strong, unaffected by the capitalist world's crisis.\n\nAfter World War I, the global economy remained strong through the 1920s. The war had provided a stimulus for industry and for economic activity in general. There were many warning signs foretelling the collapse of the global economic system in 1929 that were generally not understood by the political leadership of the time. The responses to the crisis often made the situation worse, as millions of people watched their savings become next to worthless and the idea of a steady job with a reasonable income fading away.\n\nMany sought answers in alternative ideologies such as communism and fascism. They believed that the capitalist economic system was collapsing, and that new ideas were required to meet the crisis. The early responses to the crisis were based upon the assumption that the free market would correct itself. This, however, did very little to correct the crisis or to alleviate the suffering of many ordinary people. Thus, the idea that the existing system could be reformed by government intervention in the economy, rather than by continuing the \"laissez-faire\" approach, became prominent as a solution to the crisis. Democratic governments assumed the responsibility to provide needed services in society, and to alleviate poverty. Thus was born the welfare state. These two politico-economic principles, the belief in government intervention and the welfare state, as opposed to the belief in the free market and private institutions, would define many political battles for the rest of the century.\n\nFascism first appeared in Italy with the rise to power of Benito Mussolini in 1922. The ideology was supported by a large proportion of the upper classes as a strong challenge to the threat of communism.\n\nWhen Adolf Hitler came to power in Germany in 1933, a new variant of fascism called Nazism took over Germany and ended the German experiment with democracy. The Nazi Party in Germany was dedicated to the restoration of German honor and prestige, the unification of German-speaking peoples, and the annexation of Central and Eastern Europe as vassal states, with the Slavic population to act as slave labor to serve German economic interests. There was also a strong appeal to a mythical racial purity (the idea that Germans were the \"Herrenvolk\" or the \"master race\"), and a vicious anti-semitism which promoted the idea of Jews as subhuman (\"Untermensch\") and worthy only of extermination.\n\nMany people in Western Europe and the United States greeted the rise of Hitler with relief or indifference. They could see nothing wrong with a strong Germany ready to take on the communist menace to the east. Anti-semitism during the Great Depression was widespread as many were content to blame the Jews for causing the economic downturn.\n\nHitler began to put his plan in motion, annexing Austria in the \"Anschluss\", or reunification of Austria to Germany, in 1938. He then negotiated the annexation of the Sudetenland, a German-speaking mountainous area of Czechoslovakia, in the Munich Conference. The British were eager to avoid war and believed Hitler's assurance to protect the security of the Czech state. Hitler annexed the rest of the Czech state shortly afterwards, indicating that he had ulterior motives.\n\nFascism was not the only form of dictatorship to rise in the post-war period. Almost all of the new democracies in the nations of Eastern Europe collapsed and were replaced by authoritarian regimes. Spain also became a dictatorship under the leadership of General Francisco Franco after the Spanish Civil War. Totalitarian states attempted to achieve total control over their subjects as well as their total loyalty. They held the state above the individual, and were often responsible for some of the worst acts in history, such as the Holocaust Adolf Hitler perpetrated on European Jews, or the Great Purge Stalin perpetrated in the Soviet Union in the 1930s.\n\n\"This section provides a conversational overview of World War II in Europe. See main article for a fuller discussion.\"\nSoon after the events in Czechoslovakia, Britain and France issued assurances of protection to Poland, which seemed to be next on Hitler's list. World War II officially began on September 1, 1939. On that date, Hitler unleashed his Blitzkrieg, or lightning war, against Poland. Britain and France, much to Hitler's surprise, immediately declared war upon Germany, but the help they delivered to Poland was negligible. At the same time, Poland was attacked from the East by Soviet Union, acting in a secret alliance with Nazi Germany. After only a few weeks, the Polish forces were overwhelmed, and its government fled to exile in London (see Polish government in Exile).\n\nIn starting World War II, the Germans had unleashed a new type of warfare, characterized by highly mobile forces and the use of massed aircraft. The German strategy concentrated upon the devotion of the \"Wehrmacht\", or German army, to the use of tank groups, called panzer divisions, and groups of mobile infantry, in concert with relentless attacks from the air. Encirclement was also a major part of the strategy. This change smashed any expectations that the Second World War would be fought in the trenches like the first.\n\nAs Hitler's forces conquered Poland, the Soviet Union, under General Secretary Joseph Stalin, was acting out guarantees of territory under a secret part of a nonaggression pact between the USSR and Germany known as the Nazi-Soviet Pact. This treaty gave Stalin free rein to take the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, as well as Eastern Poland, all of which would remain in Soviet possession after the war. Stalin also launched an attack on Finland, which he hoped to reduce to little more than a Soviet puppet state, but the Red Army met staunch Finnish resistance in what became known as the Winter War and succeeded in gaining only limited territory from the Finns. This action would later cause the Finns to ally with Germany when its attack on the Soviet Union came in 1941.\n\nAfter the defeat of Poland, a period known as the Phony War ensued during the winter of 1939–1940. All of this changed on May 10, 1940, when the Germans launched a massive attack on the Low Countries (Belgium, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg), most probably to surmount the Maginot Line of defenses on the Franco-German border. This witnessed the incredible fall of Eben Emael, a Belgian fort considered impregnable and guarded by 600 Belgians, to a force of only 88 German paratroopers. The worst of this was that King Léopold III of Belgium surrendered to the Germans on May 28 without warning his allies, exposing the entire flank of the Allied forces to German panzer groups. Following the conquest of the Low Countries, Hitler occupied Denmark and Norway, beginning on April 9, 1940. Norway was strategically important because of its sea routes which supplied crucial Swedish ore to the Nazi war machine. Norway held on for a few crucial weeks, but Denmark surrendered after only four days.\n\nWith the disaster in the Low Countries, France, considered at the time to have had the finest army in the world, lasted only four weeks, with Paris being occupied on June 14. Three days later, Marshal Philippe Pétain surrendered to the Germans. The debacle in France also led to one of the war's greatest mysteries, and Hitler's first great blunder, Dunkirk, where a third of a million trapped British and French soldiers were evacuated by not only British war boats, but every boat the army could find, including fishing rafts. Hitler refused to \"risk\" his panzers on an action at Dunkirk, listening to the advice of Air Minister Hermann Göring and allowing the \"Luftwaffe\", or German Air Force, to handle the job. The irony of this was that the escaped men would form the core of the army that was to invade the beaches of Normandy in 1944. Hitler did not occupy all of France, but about three-quarters, including all of the Atlantic coast, allowing Marshal Pétain to remain as dictator of an area known as Vichy France. However, members of the escaped French Army formed around General Charles de Gaulle to create the Free French forces, which would continue to battle Hitler in the stead of an independent France. At this moment, Italy, under Benito Mussolini, declared war on the Allies on June 10, thinking that the war was almost over, but he managed only to occupy a few hundred yards of French territory. Throughout the war, the Italians would be more of a burden to the Nazis than a boon, and would later cost them precious time in Greece.\n\nHitler now turned his eyes on Great Britain, which stood alone against him. He ordered his generals to draw up plans for an invasion, code named Operation Sea Lion, and ordered the Luftwaffe to launch a massive air war against the British isles, which would come to be known as the Battle of Britain. The British at first suffered steady losses, but eventually managed to turn the air war against Germany, taking down 2,698 German planes throughout the summer of 1940 to only 915 Royal Air Force (RAF) losses. The key turning point came when the Germans discontinued successful attacks against British airplane factories and radar command and coordination stations and turned to civilian bombing known as terror bombing using the distinctive \"bomb\" sound created by the German dive-bomber, the Stuka. The switch came after a small British bombing force had attacked Berlin. Hitler was infuriated. However, his decision to switch the attacks' focus allowed the British to rebuild the RAF and eventually force the Germans to indefinitely postpone Sea Lion.\n\nThe importance of the Battle of Britain is that it marked the first of Hitler's defeats, however its overall impact was overshadowed by his later blunders in the east. Secondly, it marked the advent of radar as a major weapon in modern air war. With radar, squadrons of fighters could be quickly assembled to respond to incoming bombers attempting to bomb civilian targets. It also allowed the identification of the type and a guess at the number of incoming enemy aircraft, as well as tracking of friendly airplanes.\n\nHitler, taken aback by his defeat over the skies of Britain, now turned his gaze eastward to the Soviet Union. Despite having signed the non-aggression pact with Stalin, Hitler despised communism and wished to destroy it in the land of its birth. He originally planned to launch the attack in early spring of 1941 to avoid the disastrous Russian winter. However, a pro-allied coup in Yugoslavia and Mussolini's almost utter defeat in his invasion of Greece from occupied Albania prompted Hitler to launch a personal campaign of revenge in Yugoslavia and to occupy Greece at the same time. The Greeks would have a bitter revenge of sorts; the attack caused a delay of several crucial weeks of the invasion of the USSR.\n\nOn June 22, 1941, Hitler attacked Stalin with the largest army the world had ever seen. Over three million men and their weapons were put into service against the Soviet Union. Stalin had been warned about the attack, both by other countries and by his own intelligence network, but he had refused to believe it. Therefore, the Soviet army was largely unprepared and suffered incredible setbacks in the early part of the war, despite Stalin's orders to counterattack the Germans. Throughout 1941, German forces, divided into 3 army groups (Army Group A, Army Group B, and Army Group C), occupied the territories of the present day Ukraine and Belarus, laid siege to Leningrad (present day Saint Petersburg), and advanced to within 15 miles of Moscow. At this critical moment, the Soviet people stalled the German \"Wehrmacht\" to a halt at the gates of Moscow. Stalin had planned to evacuate the city, and had already moved important government functions, but decided to stay and rally the city. Recently arrived troops from the east under the command of Marshal Georgi Zhukov counterattacked the Germans and drove them from Moscow.\n\nHere marks the third great blunder of Hitler's. He could have won the war in the USSR except for a few reasons. One, he tried to capture too much too fast; he wanted the German army to advance all the way to the Urals, which amounted to one million square miles (2,600,000 km²) of territory, when he probably should have concentrated on taking Moscow and thereby driving a wedge into heart of the Soviet Union. Second, he ignored the similar experiences of Napoleon Bonaparte nearly one hundred and fifty years earlier in his attempt to conquer Russia. Despite this, Stalin was not in a good position. Roughly two-fifths of the USSR's industrial might was in German hands. Also, the Germans were at first seen by many as liberators fighting the communists. Stalin was also not a very able general, and like Hitler, at first tried to fight the war as a military strategist. However, Hitler managed to turn all of his advantages against himself, and lost the only remaining hope for Germany: seizing the Caucasus and taking control of North Africa and the oil-rich Middle East.\n\nMussolini had launched an offensive in North Africa from Italian-controlled Libya into British-controlled Egypt. However, the British smashed the Italians and were on the verge of taking Libya. Hitler decided to help by sending in a few thousand troops, a \"Luftwaffe\" division, and the first-rate general Erwin Rommel. Rommel managed to use his small force to repeatedly smash massively superior British forces and to recapture the port city of Tobruk and advance into Egypt. However, Hitler, embroiled in his invasion of the Soviet Union, refused to send Rommel any more troops. If he had, Rommel might have been able to seize the Middle East, where Axis-friendly regimes had taken root in Iraq and Persia (present-day Iran). Here, Rommel could have cut the major supply route of the Soviets through Persia, and helped take the Caucasus, virtually neutralizing Britain's effectiveness in the war and potentially sealing the fate of the Soviet Union. However, Hitler blundered again, throwing away the last vestiges of the German advantage on his coming offensive in 1942.\n\nAfter the winter, Hitler launched a fresh offensive in the spring of 1942, with the aim of capturing the oil-rich Caucacus and the city of Stalingrad. However, he repeatedly switched his troops to where they were not needed. The offensive bogged down, and the entire 6th Army, considered the best of German troops, was trapped in Stalingrad. Hitler now refused to let 6th Army break out. He insisted that the German army would force its way in. Hermann Göring also assured Hitler that the \"Luftwaffe\" could supply the 6th Army adequately, when it could in reality only supply a minute fraction of the needed ammunition and rations. Eventually, the starved 6th Army surrendered, dealing a severe blow to the Germans. In the end, the defeat at Stalingrad was the turning point for the war in the east.\n\nMeanwhile, the Japanese had attacked the United States at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii on December 7, 1941. This disastrous attack forced the Americans into the war. Hitler need not have declared war on the United States, and kept its continued neutrality in Europe, but he did not. Both he and Mussolini declared war only a few days after the attack. At the time, most German generals, preoccupied with war in the USSR, did not even notice America's entrance. It was to be a crucial blunder.\n\nThroughout the rest of 1942 and 1943, the Soviets began to gain ground against the Germans. The tank battle of Kursk is one example. However, by this time, Rommel had been forced to abandon North Africa after a defeat by Montgomery at El Alamein, and the \"Wehrmacht\" had encountered serious casualties that it could not replace. Hitler also insisted on a \"hold at all costs\" policy which forbade relinquishing any ground. He followed a \"fight to the last man\" policy that was completely ineffective. By the beginning of 1944, Hitler had lost all initiative in the Soviet Union, and was struggling even to hold back the tide turning against him.\n\nFrom 1942 to 1944, the United States and Britain acted in only a limited manner in the European theater, much to the chagrin of Stalin. They drove out the Germans in Africa, invading Morocco and Algeria on November 8, 1942. Then, on July 10, 1943, the Allies invaded Sicily, in preparation for an advance through Italy, the \"soft underbelly\" of the Axis, as Winston Churchill called it. On September 9, the invasion of Italy began. By the winter of 1943, the southern half of Italy was in Allied hands. The Italians, most of whom did not really support the war, had already turned against Mussolini. In July, he had been stripped of power and taken prisoner, though the Italians feigned continued support of the Axis. On September 8, the Italians formally surrendered, but most of Italy not in Allied hands was controlled by German troops and those loyal to Mussolini's (Mussolini had been freed by German paratroopers) new Italian Social Republic, which in reality consisted of the shrinking zone of German control. The Germans offered staunch resistance, but by June 4, 1944, Rome had fallen.\n\nThe Battle of the Atlantic took place from 1942 to 1944. The Germans hoped to sever the vital supply lines between Britain and America, sinking many tons of shipping with U-boats, German submarines. However, the development of the destroyer and aircraft with a longer patrol range were effective at countering the U-boat threat. By 1944, the Germans had lost the battle.\n\nOn June 6, 1944, the Western Allies finally launched the long-awaited assault on \"Fortress Europe\" so wanted by Stalin. The offensive, codenamed Operation Overlord, began the early morning hours of June 6. The day, known as D-day, was marked by foul weather. Rommel, who was now in charge of defending France against possible Allied attack, thought the Allies would not attack during the stormy weather, and was on holiday in Germany. Besides this, the Germans were expecting an attack, but at the natural harbor of Calais and not the beaches of Normandy; a blunder that sealed the operation's success. They did not know about the Allies' artificial harbours, and clues planted by the Allies suggested Calais as the landing site.\n\nBy this time, the war was looking ever darker for Germany. On July 20, 1944, a group of conspiring German officers attempted to assassinate Hitler. The bomb they used did injure him, but the second was not used, and a table shielded Hitler in a stroke of luck. The plotters still could have launched a coup, but only the head of occupied Paris acted, arresting SS and Gestapo forces in the city. The German propaganda minister, Joseph Goebbels, rallied the Nazis, and saved the day for Hitler.\n\nIn France, the Allies took Normandy and finally Paris on August 25. In the east, the Soviets had advanced almost to the former Polish-Soviet border. At this time, Hitler introduced the V-weapons, the V-1 flying bomb and, later, the V-2, the first rockets used in modern warfare. The V-1 was often intercepted by air pilots, but the V-2 was extremely fast and carried a large payload. However, this advance came too late in the war to have any real effect. The Germans were also on the verge of introducing a number of terrifying new weapons, including advanced jet aircraft, which were too fast for ordinary propeller aircraft, and submarine improvements which would allow the Germans to again fight effectively in the Atlantic. All this came too late to save Hitler. Although a September invasion of The Netherlands failed, the Allies made steady advances. In the winter of 1944, Hitler put everything into one last desperate gamble in the West, known as the Battle of the Bulge, which, despite an initial advance, was a failure, because the introduction of new Allied tanks and low troop numbers among the Germans prevented any real action being taken.\n\nIn early February 1945, the three Allied leaders, Franklin Roosevelt, Winston Churchill, and Joseph Stalin, met at newly liberated Yalta in the Crimea in the Soviet Union in the Yalta Conference. Here, they agreed upon a plan to divide post-war Europe. Most of the east went to Stalin, who agreed to allow free elections in Eastern Europe, which he never did. The west went to Britain, France, and the U.S. Post-war Germany would be split between the four, as would Berlin. Here the territory of the Cold War was set. The boundaries of a new Europe, stripped of some of its oldest ruling families, were drawn up by the three men at Yalta.\n\nAt the beginning of 1945, Hitler was on his last strings. The Soviets launched a devastating attack from Poland into Germany and Eastern Europe, intending to take Berlin. The Germans collapsed in the West, allowing the Allies to fan out across Germany. However, the Supreme Allied Commander, American general Dwight D. Eisenhower, refused to strike for Berlin, and instead became obsessed with reports of possible guerrilla activity in southern Germany, which in reality existed only in the propaganda of Joseph Goebbels. By April 25, the Soviets had besieged Berlin. Hitler remained in the city in a bunker under the Chancellery garden. On April 30, he committed suicide, after a ritual wedding with his longtime mistress Eva Braun. The Germans held out another 7 days under Admiral Doenitz, their new leader, but the Germans surrendered unconditionally on May 7, 1945, ending the war in Europe (see V-E Day).\n\nRivalries that had begun during the war, combined with the sense of strength in the victorious powers, laid the foundations of the Iron Curtain and of the Cold War.\n\nThere once was a war in the pacific\n\nThe Holocaust (which roughly means \"great fire\") was the deliberate, systematic murder of millions of Jews and other minorities during World War II by the Nazi regime in Germany. Several differing views exist regarding whether it was intended to occur from the war's beginning, or if the plans for it came about later. Regardless, persecution of Jews extended well before the war even started, such as in the \"Kristallnacht\" (literally \"Crystal Night\", Night of Broken Glass). The Nazis used propaganda to great effect to stir up anti-Semitic feelings within ordinary Germans.\n\nAfter the conquest of Poland, the Third Reich, which had previously deported Jews and other \"undesirables\", suddenly had within its borders the largest concentration of Jews in the world. The solution was to round up Jews and place them in Nazi concentration camps or in ghettos, cordoned off sections of cities where Jews were forced to live in deplorable conditions, often with tens of thousands starving to death, and the bodies decaying in the streets. As appalling as this sounds, they were the lucky ones. After the invasion of the Soviet Union, armed killing squads of SS men known as \"Einsatzgruppen\" systematically rounded up Jews and murdered an estimated one million Jews within the country. As barbaric and inhuman as this seems, it was too slow and inefficient by Nazi standards.\n\nIn 1942, the top leadership met in Wannsee, a suburb of Berlin, and began to plan a more efficient way to slaughter the Jews. The Nazis created a system of extermination camps throughout Poland, and began rounding up Jews from the Soviet Union, and from the Ghettos. Not only were Jews shot or gassed to death en masse, but they were forced to provide slave labor and they were used in horrific medical experiments (see Human experimentation in Nazi Germany). Out of the widespread condemnation of the Nazis' medical experiments, the Nuremberg Code of medical ethics was devised.\n\nThe Nazis took a sadistic pleasure in the death camps; the entrance to the worst camp, Auschwitz, stated \"Arbeit Macht Frei\"—\"Work Sets You Free\". In the end, six million Jews, homosexuals, Jehovah's Witnesses, Gypsies and political prisoners were killed by various means, mainly in the death camps. An additional seven million Soviet and other Allied prisoners of war died in camps and holding areas.\n\nThere is some controversy over whether ordinary Germans knew about the Holocaust. It appears that many Germans knew about the concentration camps; such things were prominently displayed in magazines and newspapers. In many places, Jews had to walk past towns and villages on their way to work as slaves in German industry. In any case, Allied soldiers reported that the smell of the camps carried for miles. A very small number of people deny the Holocaust occurred entirely, though these claims have been routinely discredited by mainstream historians.\n\nDuring the 1930s, innovations in physics made it apparent that it could be possible to develop nuclear weapons of incredible power using nuclear reactions. When World War II broke out, scientists and advisors among the Allies feared that Nazi Germany may have been trying to develop its own atomic weapons, and the United States and the United Kingdom pooled their efforts in what became known as the Manhattan Project to beat them to it. At the secret Los Alamos laboratory in New Mexico, scientist Robert Oppenheimer led a team of the world's top scientists to develop the first nuclear weapons, the first of which was tested at the Trinity site in July 1945. However, Germany had surrendered in May 1945, and it had been discovered that the German atomic bomb program had not been very close to success.\n\nThe Allied team produced two nuclear weapons for use in the war, one powered by uranium-235 and the other by plutonium as fissionable material, named \"Little Boy\" and \"Fat Man\". These were dropped on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki on August 6 and 9, 1945 each. This, in combination with the Soviet entrance into the war, convinced the Japanese to surrender unconditionally. These two weapons remain the only two nuclear weapons ever used against other countries in war.\n\nNuclear weapons brought an entirely new and terrifying possibility to warfare: a nuclear holocaust. While at first the United States held a monopoly on the production of nuclear weapons, the Soviet Union, with some assistance from espionage, managed to detonate its first weapon (dubbed \"Joe-1\" by the West) in August 1949. The post-war relations between the two, which had already been deteriorating, began to rapidly disintegrate. Soon the two were locked in a massive stockpiling of nuclear weapons. The United States began a crash program to develop the first hydrogen bomb in 1950, and detonated its first thermonuclear weapon in 1952. This new weapon was alone over 400 times as powerful as the weapons used against Japan. The Soviet Union detonated a primitive thermonuclear weapon in 1953 and a full-fledged one in 1955.\n\nThe conflict continued to escalate, with the major superpowers developing long-range missiles (such as the ICBM) and a nuclear strategy which guaranteed that any use of the nuclear weapons would be suicide for the attacking nation (Mutually Assured Destruction). The creation of early warning systems put the control of these weapons into the hands of newly created computers, and they served as a tense backdrop throughout the Cold War.\n\nSince the 1940s there were concerns about the rising proliferation of nuclear weapons to new countries, which was seen as being destabilizing to international relations, spurring regional arms races, and generally increasing the likelihood of some form of nuclear war. Eventually, seven nations would overtly develop nuclear weapons, and still maintain stockpiles today: the United States, the Soviet Union (and later Russia would inherit these), the United Kingdom, France, China, India, and Pakistan. South Africa developed six crude weapons in the 1980s (which it later dismantled), and Israel almost certainly developed nuclear weapons though it never confirmed nor denied it. The creation of the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty in 1968 was an attempt to curtail such proliferation, but a number of countries developed nuclear weapons since it was signed (and many did not sign it), and a number of other countries, including Libya, Iran, and North Korea, were suspected of having clandestine nuclear weapons programs.\n\nFollowing World War II, the majority of the industrialized world lay in ruins as a result of aerial bombings, naval bombardment, and protracted land campaigns. The United States was a notable exception to this; barring Pearl Harbor and some minor incidents, the U.S. had suffered no attacks upon its territory. The United States and the Soviet Union, which, despite the devastation of its most populated areas, rebuilt quickly, found themselves the world's two dominant superpowers.\n\nMuch of Western Europe was rebuilt after the war with assistance from the Marshall Plan. Germany, chief instigator of the war, was placed under joint military occupation by the United States, Great Britain, France, and the Soviet Union. Berlin, although in Soviet-controlled territory, was also divided among the four powers. Occupation of Berlin would continue until 1990. Japan was also placed under U.S. occupation, that would last five years, until 1949. Oddly, these two Axis powers, despite military occupation, soon rose to become the second (Japan) and third (West Germany) most powerful economies in the world.\n\nFollowing the end of the war, the Allies famously prosecuted numerous German officials for war crimes and other offenses in the Nuremberg Trials. Although Adolf Hitler had committed suicide, many of his cronies, including Hermann Göring, were convicted. Less well-known trials of other Axis officials also occurred, including the Tokyo War Crime Trial.\n\nThe failure of the League of Nations to prevent World War II essentially discredited the organization, and it was dissolved. A new attempt at world peace was begun with the founding of the United Nations on October 24, 1945, in San Francisco. Today, nearly all countries are members, but despite its many successes, the organization's success at achieving its goal of world peace is dubious. The organization was never given enough power to overcome the conflicting interests and priorities of its member nations.\n\nAlmost all of the major nations that were involved in World War II began shedding their overseas colonies soon after the conflict. In Africa, nationalists such as Jomo Kenyatta of Kenya and Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana led their respective nations to independence from foreign rule. The tactics employed by the revolutionaries ranged from non-violent forms of protest to armed rebellions, depending on the nation involved. The United States granted independence to the Philippines, its major Pacific possession. European powers also began withdrawing from their possessions in Africa and Asia. France was forced out of both Indochina and, later, Algeria.\n\nTwo wars and a near-war in the 1950s became the focus for capitalist versus communist struggle. The first war was the Korean War, fought between People's Republic of China-backed North Korea and mainly United States-backed South Korea. North Korea's invasion of South Korea led to United Nations intervention. General Douglas MacArthur led troops from the United States, Canada, Australia, Great Britain, and other countries in repulsing the Northern invasion. However, the war reached a stalemate after Chinese intervention pushed U.N. forces back, and an ended hostilities, leaving the two Koreas divided and tense for the rest of the century.\n\nThe second war, the Vietnam War, was perhaps the second most visible war of the 20th century, after World War II. After the French withdrawal from its former colony, Vietnam became partitioned into two halves, much like Korea. Fighting between North and South eventually escalated into a regional war. The United States provided aid to South Vietnam, but was not directly involved until the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, passed in reaction to a supposed North Vietnamese attack upon American destroyers, brought the U.S. into the war as a belligerent. The war was initially viewed as a fight to contain communism (see containment, Truman Doctrine, and Domino Theory), but, as more Americans were drafted and news of events such as the Tet Offensive and My Lai massacre leaked out, American sentiment turned against the war. U.S. President Richard Nixon was elected partially on claims of a \"secret plan\" to stop the war. This Nixon Doctrine involved a gradual pullout of American forces; South Vietnamese units were supposed to replace them, backed up by American air power. Unfortunately, the plan went awry, and the war spilled into neighboring Cambodia while South Vietnamese forces were pushed further back. Eventually, the U.S. and North Vietnam signed the Paris Peace Accords, ending U.S. involvement in the war. With the threat of U.S. retaliation gone, the North proceeded to violate the ceasefire and invaded the South with full military force. Saigon was captured on April 30, 1975, and Vietnam was unified under Communist rule a year later, effectively bringing an end to one of the most unpopular wars of all time.\n\nThe Cuban Missile Crisis illustrates just how close to the brink of nuclear war the world came during the Cold War. Cuba, under Fidel Castro's socialist government, had formed close ties with the Soviet Union. This was obviously disquieting to the United States, given Cuba's proximity. When Lockheed U-2 spy plane flights over the island revealed that Soviet missile launchers were being installed, U.S. President John F. Kennedy instituted a naval blockade and publicly confronted the Soviet Union. After a tense week, the Soviet Union backed down and ordered the launchers removed, not wanting to risk igniting a new world war.\n\nWith Cold War tensions running high, the Soviet Union and United States took their rivalry to the stars in 1957 with the Soviet launch of Sputnik. A \"space race\" between the two powers followed. Although the USSR reached several important milestones, such as the first craft on the Moon (Luna 2) and the first human in space (Yuri Gagarin), the U.S. allegedly pulled ahead eventually with its Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo programs, which culminated in Apollo 11's manned landing on the moon. Five more manned landings followed (Apollo 13 was forced to abort its mission). Nevertheless, despite its successes the U.S. space program could not match many major achievements of the Soviet space program, such as unmanned rover-based space exploration and image and video transfer from the surface of another planet, until the early 21st century.\n\nIn addition, both countries launched numerous probes into space, such as the Venera 7 and Voyager 2.\n\nIn later decades, space became a somewhat friendlier place. Regular manned space flights were made possible with the American space shuttle, which was the first reusable spacecraft to be successfully used. Mir and Skylab enabled prolonged human habitation in space. In the 1990s, work on the International Space Station began, and by the end of the century, while still incomplete, it was in continual use by astronauts from the United States, Europe, Russia, Japan, and Canada.\n\nBy the 1980s, the Soviet Union was weakening. The Sino-Soviet split had removed the USSR's most powerful ally, the People's Republic of China. Its arms race with the U.S. was draining the country of funds, and further weakened by internal pressures, ethnic and political. Mikhail Gorbachev, its last leader, attempted to reform the country with \"glasnost\" and \"perestroika\", but the formation of Solidarity, the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the breaking-off of several Soviet republics, such as Lithuania, started a slippery slope of events that culminated in a coup to overthrow Gorbachev, organized by Communist Party hard-liners. Boris Yeltsin, president of Russia, organized mass opposition, and the coup failed. On December 26, 1991, the Soviet Union was officially disbanded into its constituent republics, thus putting a final line under the already exhausted Cold War.\n\nThe creation of the transistor revolutionized the development of the computer. The first computers, room-sized electro-mechanical devices built to break cryptographical codes during World War II, quickly became at least 20 times smaller using transistors. Computers became reprogrammable rather than fixed-purpose devices. The invention of programming languages meant computer operators could concentrate on problem solving at a high-level, without having to think in terms of the individual instructions to the computer itself. The creation of operating systems also vastly improved programming productivity. Building on this, computer pioneers could now realize what they had envisioned. The graphical user interface, piloted by a computer mouse made it simple to harness the power of the computer. Storage for computer programs progressed from punched cards and paper tape to magnetic tape, floppy disks and hard disks. Core memory and bubble memory fell to random access memory.\n\nThe invention of the word processor, spreadsheet and database greatly improved office productivity over the old paper, typewriter and filing cabinet methods. The economic advantage given to businesses led to economic efficiencies in computers themselves. Cost-effective CPUs led to thousands of industrial and home-brew computer designs, many of which became successful; a home-computer boom was led by the Apple II, the ZX80 and the Commodore PET.\n\nIBM, seeking to embrace the microcomputer revolution, devised its IBM Personal Computer (PC). Crucially, IBM developed the PC from third-party components that were available on the open market. The only impediment to another company duplicating the system's architecture was the proprietary BIOS software. Other companies, starting with Compaq, reverse engineered the BIOS and released PC compatible computers that soon became the dominant architecture. Microsoft, which produced an operating system for the PC, rode this wave of popularity to become the world's leading software company.\n\nThe 1980s heralded the Information Age. The rise of computer applications and data processing made ethereal \"information\" as valuable as physical commodities. This brought about new concerns surrounding intellectual property issues. The U.S. Government made algorithms patentable, forming the basis of software patents. The controversy over these and proprietary software led Richard Stallman to create the Free Software Foundation and begin the GNU Project.\n\nComputers also became a usable platform for entertainment. Computer games were first developed by software programmers exercising their creativity on large systems at universities, but these efforts became commercially successful in arcade games such as \"Pong\" and \"Space Invaders\". Once the home computer market was established, young programmers in their bedrooms became the core of a youthful games industry. In order to take advantage of advancing technology, games consoles were created. Like arcade systems, these machines had custom hardware designed to do game-oriented operations (such as sprites and parallax scrolling) in preference to general purpose computing tasks.\n\nComputer networks appeared in two main styles; the local area network, linking computers in an office or school to each other, and the wide area network, linking the local area networks together. Initially, computers depended on the telephone networks to link to each other, spawning the Bulletin Board sub-culture. However, a DARPA project to create bomb-proof computer networks led to the creation of the Internet, a network of networks. The core of this network was the robust TCP/IP network protocol. Thanks to efforts from Al Gore, the Internet grew beyond its military role when universities and commercial businesses were permitted to connect their networks to it. The main impetus for this was electronic mail, a far faster and convenient form of communication than a conventional letter and memo distribution, and the File Transfer Protocol (FTP). However, the Internet remained largely unknown to the general public, who were used to Bulletin Boards and services like Compuserve and America Online. This changed when Tim Berners-Lee devised a simpler form of Vannevar Bush's hypertext, which he dubbed the World Wide Web. \"The Web\" suddenly changed the Internet into a printing press beyond the geographic boundaries of physical countries; it was termed \"cyberspace\". Anyone with a computer and an Internet connection could write pages in the simple HTML format and publish their thoughts to the world.\n\nThe Web's immense success also fueled the commercial use of the Internet. Convenient home shopping had been an element of \"visions of the future\" since the development of the telephone, but now the race was on to provide convenient, interactive consumerism. Companies trading through websites became known as \"dot coms\", due to the \".com\" suffix of commercial Internet addresses.\n\nBy the end of the century, more technological advances had been made than in all of preceding history. Communications and information technology, transportation technology, and medical advances had radically altered daily lives. Europe appeared to be at a sustainable peace for the first time in recorded history. The people of the Indian subcontinent, a sixth of the world population at the end of the century, had attained an indigenous independence for the first time in centuries. China, an ancient nation comprising a fifth of the world population, was finally open to the world in a new and powerful synthesis of west and east, creating a new state after the near-complete destruction of the old cultural order. With the end of colonialism and the Cold War, nearly a billion people in Africa were left with truly independent new nation states, some cut from whole cloth, standing up after centuries of foreign domination.\n\nThe world was undergoing its second major period of globalization; the first, which started in the 18th century, having been terminated by World War I. Since the US was in a position of almost unchallenged domination, a major part of the process was Americanization. This led to anti-Western and anti-American feelings in parts of the world, especially the Middle East. The influence of China and India was also rising, as the world's largest populations, long marginalized by the West and by their own rulers, were rapidly integrating with the world economy.\n\nHowever, several problems faced the world. The gap between rich and poor nations continued to widen. Some said that this problem could not be fixed, that there was a set amount of wealth and it could only be shared by so many. Others said that the powerful nations with large economies were not doing enough to help improve the rapidly evolving economies of the Third World. However, developing countries faced many challenges, including the scale of the task to be surmounted, rapidly growing populations, and the need to protect the environment and the cost that goes along with it.\n\nTerrorism, dictatorship, and the spread of nuclear weapons were other issues requiring attention. The world was still blighted by small-scale wars and other violent conflicts, fueled by competition over resources and by ethnic conflicts. Despots such as Kim Jong-il of North Korea continued to lead their nations toward the development of nuclear weapons.\n\nDisease threatened to destabilize many regions of the world. New viruses such as SARS and West Nile continued to spread. In poor nations, malaria and other diseases affected the majority of the population. Millions were infected with HIV, the virus which causes AIDS. The virus was becoming an epidemic in southern Africa.\n\nPerhaps most importantly, it was speculated that in the long term, environmental problems threatened the planet's livability. The most serious problem was global warming, which was predicted to frequently flood coastal areas, due to human-caused emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide produced by the burning of fossil fuels. This prompted many nations to negotiate and sign the Kyoto treaty, which set mandatory limits on carbon dioxide emissions.\n\nThe celebration of the ending of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century was at New Year's Day, 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47281552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47281552", "title": "Alexandru Claudian", "text": "Alexandru Claudian\n\nAlexandru Claudian (also rendered as Al. Claudian; April 8, 1898 – October 16, 1962) was a Romanian sociologist, political figure, and poet. A student and practitioner of Marxism, he worked as a schoolteacher, entry-level academic, field researcher, and journalist, before finally earning a professorship at Iași University. An anti-fascist, Claudian enlisted with the Romanian Social Democratic Party during the interwar, moving closer to the anti-communist center by the late 1940s, and became that faction's main theoretician. His condemnation of Marxism and totalitarianism made him an enemy of the communist regime, which imprisoned him for several years and kept him under surveillance until the time of his death.\n\nClaudian's work in the sociology of culture and the history of ideas worked on the assumption of social determinism, discussing the social triggers behind Platonism or Positivism. His contribution was well received by the scientific community, but his isolation form other sociological schools, and his overall discreetness, led to his passing into relative oblivion. Disconnected from his scholarly pursuits, Claudian's poetry is generally of an introspective kind, lyricizing the writer's nostalgia.\n\nBorn in Cernavodă, his parents were Floru Claudian, a general in the Romanian Army who came from a working-class family, and his wife Eufimia (\"née\" Cernătescu), whose ancestors were Oltenian \"boyar\"s and participants in the Wallachian Revolution of 1848. Eufimia's uncle, Petru Cernătescu, was an academic and well-to-do landowner. Alexandru's brother Ion trained as a physician, and later earned his reputation as a nutritionist and food historian. A paternal uncle, who was also an Army officer, was the natural father of Alexandru Christian Tell, the poet and political activist.\n\nThe family moved around the country as General Claudian was assigned to various posts. Alexandru was enlisted at high schools in Caracal, Buzău, and finally the capital Bucharest, originally matriculating at Mihai Viteazul. In 1918, he graduated, a student at the Saint Sava National College. Taking his diploma from the University of Bucharest's literature and philosophy faculty in 1922, he met there and fell in love with a female colleague, Zoe D. Solomonescu. A Bucharester, she also came from a lower-class background, and the elder Claudians initially objected to their seeing each other romantically. They were nevertheless married in March 1923.\n\nClaudian's literary debut involved poems published in Henric Sanielevici's \"Curentul Nou\" magazine in 1920. Going forward, some of his verses were signed with the pen name Anton Costin, particularly those published in \"Jurnalul Literar\". Other magazines for which he wrote include \"Facla Literară\", \"Viața Literară\", \"Viața Românească\", \"Minerva\", \"Pasul Vremii\", \"Revista de Filosofie\", \"Revista Română\", and \"Iașul Literar\".\n\nInitially, Claudian worked as a teacher of French at Bucharest schools, moving to Iași in 1922 to take up a position at the Military High School. He had a stint at Dimitrie Gusti's Social Institute, of which he was secretary (1928–1929), and took part with wife Zoe in Gusti's \"monographic\" campaign of rural sociology, at Fundu Moldovei. Starting in 1928, at his alma mater, Claudian held seminars on the history of doctrines, but left after a year. In 1929, he also took part in the structured debates which sought to inventory, organize, and correlate field data obtained by Gusti and his teams.\n\nClaudian began teaching at Iași University in late 1929, initially offering courses on ancient philosophy within the literature and philosophy department. He and Zoe occupied a temporary home at Păcurari; she had to commute to Târgu Frumos, where she also worked as a schoolteacher. The couple separated in short while, with Claudian pursuing other women. Never divorcing her \"first and one true love\" or renouncing her marriage name, Zoe remained his confidant and secretary until the time of his death.\n\nClaudian earned a doctorate at Iași in 1930; his thesis dealt with the agrarian problem in pre-1917 Russia and the role of Marxism in the social transformations undergone by Russia and Germany in 1917–1918. A fragment of the work, detailing the serf emancipation, the \"miry\", and the ideological push for collectivization, was published in 1931 by \"Viața Românească\". According to sociologist Victor Godeanu, it was already obsolete: although Claudian's work was formally \"perfect\", his most recent references were dated 1925, missing out on the \"continuous social transformation in Soviet Russia\".\n\nThese were the years of his collaboration with the two leading figures of Iași's sociological circles: Ștefan Zeletin and Petre Andrei—Claudian served as their assistant, successively. In 1937–1938 he was in Paris on a scholarship from the French government; while there, he worked with Maxime Leroy and Henri Gouhier. An active participant in his country's socialist movement, mentioned by historian Lucian Nastasă as \"one of our country's few veritable Marxists\", he contributed political essays to \"Șantier\", a magazine on the left-wing of the Romanian Social Democratic Party (PSDR). Shortly after the December 1933 assassination of Prime Minister Ion G. Duca by the fascist Iron Guard, Claudian began contributing to \"Gândul Vremii\", a liberal nationalist magazine. His texts were explicitly anti-fascist and anti-\"Hitlerite\", suggesting an internationalist approach to \"saving human civilization\".\n\nA member of Iași's sociological school and, in Traian Herseni's view, a bearer of Zeletin's legacy, Claudian proposed a socio-historical analysis of philosophical systems in the 1935 \"Cercetări filosofice și sociologice\" (\"Philosophical and Sociological Research\"). He applied this concept in two books, \"Colectivismul în filosofia lui Platon\" (\"Collectivism in the Philosophy of Plato\") and \"Originea socială a filosofiei lui Auguste Comte\" (\"The Social Origin of Auguste Comte's Philosophy\"), both published in 1936. \"Cunoaștere și suflet\" (\"Knowledge an Spirit\", 1940) presents his approach to the sociology of knowledge. He still could not find employment in his field, but in January 1937 was offered a lecturer's position in the Department of Logic. He accepted the proposal, even though he described it to Tudor Vianu as \"rather idiotic\", confessing that he considered leaving academia altogether. Claudian was for a while affiliated with, and possibly sponsored by, a dissident left-wing faction of Romanian Freemasonry, whose overseer was Mihail Sadoveanu.\n\nAfter the 1938 establishment of the National Renaissance Front single-party dictatorship, Claudian remained active in the semi-legal PSDR, a regular contributor to its newspaper, \"Lumea Nouă\". His brother Ion and cousin Alexandru Tell, meanwhile, had drawn into the fascist opposition to the Front, openly joining the Iron Guard. Tell was executed in September 1939 as a reprisal for the assassination of National Renaissance Front Prime Minister Armand Călinescu.\n\nIn 1941, during the Guard's National Legionary State interlude, Claudian became a full professor in the department of sociology and ethics, replacing the suicidal Andrei, also teaching specialized classes on the sociology of war, the sociology of religion, and the study of social stratification. He took over for other colleagues who were on leave or had been drafted, and also taught classes at the Superior Normal School.\n\nScholar Adrian Marino, who was his student at that time, maintained a dim view of Claudian and his colleague, Dan Bădărău, arguing that their classes ignored the realities of war and politics. In 1944, however, Claudian made a show of his public opposition to the Ion Antonescu regime and its Nazi German alliance, signing his name to a public memo that demanded exist from the war. A few months later, he followed the university as it was evacuated into Transylvania, involving himself in the recruitment of new staff, and being instrumental in the election of Vianu's pupil Alexandru Dima. By the end of World War II, with the onset of Soviet occupation, Claudian published \"Antisemitismul și cauzele lui sociale\", a sociological inquiry into the phenomenon of antisemitism.\n\nAs a close associate of Constantin Titel Petrescu, the anti-communist head of the PSDR, he became identifiable as the party ideologist, and a leading contributor to its press, rejecting offers of collaboration with the Communist Party. As early as January 1945, he wrote in \"Libertatea\" against the \"brutal intimidation\" and \"simplistic, demagogic, ideas\" of the \"enemies of democracy, socialism and the workers\"; journalist Victor Frunză claimed this text was directed against the Communists. In early 1946, as the PSDR's left was joined an electoral alliance led by the Communist Party, he remained active within Petrescu's new Independent Social Democratic Party (PSDI), running third on its list in the general election of November. Under his watch, the PSDI declared itself a non-Marxian reformist movement, \"a party of revolution, but not a revolutionary party\", explicitly directed against the radical ideologies taken up by the Guard and the Communist Party.\n\nIn 1948, the nascent communist regime banned sociological teaching, and Claudian resorted to teaching classes on child psychology at the Faculty of Medicine. He and his wife were arrested later that year. Zoe was released, but Claudian, arrested again in August 1952, was held in confinement, first at Aiud prison, then at the Peninsula and Poarta Albă labor camps, on the Danube–Black Sea Canal. Ion Claudian, meanwhile, escaped into the anti-communist maquis, joining up with Nicolae Dabija, before fleeing to the West in 1950.\n\nBetween his release in 1954 and 1960, Claudian worked as a researcher at the Romanian Academy's Iași chapter, leading a withdrawn life at his house on Copou Hill, or at his friend Mircea Spiridoneanu's home, and often rejoining Zoe in Bucharest. From 1957, the Securitate police opened a file on him, worried about his nighttime contacts with PSDI militants, some of whom were its own informers. These suspected him of \"subverting the state\" and of promoting a \"Western political regime\", but were unable to penetrate his innermost circle of friends, and considered tapping his telephone.\n\nClaudian died on October 16, 1962 at an urology hospital, where he was being looked after by Zoe. Two lengthy works on the sociology of literature remained in manuscript form; one deals with classical French theater, another with 19th-century French prose. (Fragments appeared in 1957–1958 in \"Iașul Literar\" and in \"Studii și Cercetări Științifice\".) In 1972, Editura Minerva released \"Senin\" (\"Halcyon\"), Zoe Claudian's selection from her husband's poetry, written in a lyrically intellectual style, with problems posed in an ironic and philosophical manner.\n\nDescribed by his peers as a \"fine intellectual\", \"paralyzed by discreetness\", or a \"withdrawn scholar, without an expansive public persona\", Claudian was a respected, but often overlooked, figure in Romanian sociology—according to Z. Ornea, this was \"probably because, although he did take part in one annual research, he was not involved with Dimitrie Gusti's monographic school.\" The same was noted by Gusti's pupil, Henri H. Stahl, who saw Claudian as \"for sure one of our best sociologists\", but linked primarily to Zeletin, Andrei, and Sanielevici (Claudian had reportedly praised Sanielevici in particular as a \"genius\" anthropologist).\n\nIn his relative isolation, Claudian spent much time mapping out the socially deterministic settings of philosophical doctrines, the \"collective tendencies and aspirations\" that shaped individual stances, \"often without the thinker himself realizing it for sure.\" For instance, Claudian looked into the transition from Plato's discourse on collectivist government under philosopher kings, in the \"Republic\", to the more individualistic idealism of the \"Nomoi\"; the former reflected a collective republican ideal, while the latter showed Plato's own sobering experience of government under Dionysius of Syracuse. Likewise, he understood Comte as a \"dissident\" liberal, whose theoretical work, reconciling radicalism and anti-industrialism, was shaped by his frustration with the Orléanist right. The latter study was described by historian Nicolae Iorga as \"excellent\", but overly reliant on secondary sources and at times erroneous: \"Some more history would have been appreciated.\"\n\nHis reflections on antisemitism, albeit published in the wake of Holocaust, were silent on that subject, and sough to explain earlier phenomena through the grid of Marx, Kautsky, and their historical materialism. This overall interpretation, Ornea argues, was \"brittle and inconclusive\"; however, the critic finds that certain passages still have validity. Ornea refers to Claudian's rejection of scientific racism (with references to Maurice Fishberg), his correlating of antisemitism with systemic poverty, and his critique of Sombart's theory of \"Jewish commercialism\". Claudian attributed antisemitic outbursts to Christian envy for the Jews' other selected qualities, including their \"industriousness, moderation, strong will, perseverance\".\n\nClaudian viewed himself as \"a sociologist and philosopher (of sorts)\", as well as \"adventurer\". His \"integral\" and \"social history of ideas\", Herseni notes, emerged from sociology to take up a classical position in the history of ideas, but could also take the reverse path. According to Ornea, Claudian had merit as both a scientist and a theoretician: \"Had social democracy been allowed to exist, Claudian would assuredly have become a sociological-cultural personality of the kind that people respect and hold dear.\" According to Marino, the book was \"indisputably correct\" but \"in the ambiance of the day [...], totally ignored.\"\n\nClaudian's published poetry evidences different preoccupations, being rated by George Călinescu as \"intimist\" and \"typically intellectual\", taking up themes such as high school reveries, reflections on what could have been, and the secretive thoughts of a nostalgic character who has to act his real age. Călinescu describes such work as \"surprisingly youthful, lively\", as well as \"finely emotional\". One such piece reads:\n"}
{"id": "1295385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1295385", "title": "Alfred von Arneth", "text": "Alfred von Arneth\n\nAlfred Ritter von Arneth (10 July 181930 July 1897) was an Austrian historian. His principal scholarly work is a ten-volume biography of the Habsburg Empress Maria Theresa, first published in installments from 1863 to 1879 and still regarded as the standard work on the subject. Born at Vienna, he was the son of Joseph Calasanza von Arneth (1791–1863), a well-known historian and archaeologist, who wrote a history of the Austrian Empire (Vienna, 1827) and several works on numismatics and brother of Doctor Franz Hektor von Arneth (1818–1907).\n\nAlfred Arneth studied law, and became an official of the Austrian state archives, of which in 1868 he was appointed keeper. He was a moderate liberal in politics and a supporter of German unity. As such he was elected to the Frankfurt parliament in 1848. In 1861 he became a member of the Lower Austrian diet and in 1869 was nominated to the Upper House of the Austrian Reichsrat. In 1879 he was appointed president of the Kaiserliche Academie der Wissenschaften (Academy of Sciences) at Vienna, and in 1896 succeeded von Sybel as chairman of the historical commission at Munich.\n\nVon Arneth was an indefatigable worker, and, as director of the archives, his willingness to listen to the advice of experts, as well as his own sound sense, reportedly helped to promote the more scientific treatment and use of public records in most of the archives of Europe. He was noted for his scientific temper and for drawing from original sources.\n\nArneth also published in 1893 two volumes of early reminiscences under the title \"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20456256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20456256", "title": "Andrew Ezergailis", "text": "Andrew Ezergailis\n\nAndrew (Andrievs) Ezergailis (born 10 December 1930 in Viesīte Municipality) is a retired Professor of History, Ithaca College, Ithaca, New York, United States, known for his research into the 20th-century history of Latvia, particularly of the 1917 Revolution and the Holocaust in Latvia.\n\nIn August 2007, Ezergailis was awarded the Cross of the Order of the Three Stars, one of the highest honors of Latvia, for his contributions to understanding the history of the country.\nAndrew was married to Inta Ezergailis, a retired professor of German Literature at Cornell University.\n\n"}
{"id": "20190204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20190204", "title": "Andrew of Fleury", "text": "Andrew of Fleury\n\nAndrew of Fleury was a Christian monk and contemporary historian of the Peace and Truce of God movements.\n\nA Benedictine at Fleury Abbey, Andrew's chief work was \"Miracula sancti Benedicti\" (\"The Miracles of Saint Benedict\"), written \"c\".1043. He records that in 1038 Aimon, Archbishop of Bourges, forced his suffragans to swear an oath to fight the enemies of the church, and made every male fifteen years old or older swear the same oath to his diocesan. A \"peace army\", composed mainly of clerics and peasants, was formed and much bloodshed followed. Andrew disapproves of Aimon's actions, arguing that the \"peace army\" soon became blinded by ambition.\n\nAndrew visited Catalonia on at least one occasion. He is the most detailed and accurate source for the Battle of Torà in 1003. He records the presence, on the Christian side, of four counts: Raymond Borell of Barcelona, Bernard I of Besalú, Wifred II of Cerdagne, and Ermengol I of Urgell. He is in error, however, when he records that the Caliph of Córdoba, Hisham II, died in the encounter, which is probably a local legend. The actual leader of the Muslim army was Abdelmelik, the son of \"hajib\" Almanzor. Andrew reports the battle in terms as if describing a holy war. The Muslims, whose numbers he puts at 17 000, are \"new Philistines\", the Christians are aided by the saints Peter and Michael and the Virgin Mary, who announces the Christian victory as far away as Monte Sant'Angelo. Despite the theme of religious warfare, Spanish historians have not picked up on Andrew's account.\n\nAndrew also wrote a \"Vita Gauzlini\" (\"Life of Gauzlin\") about the former abbot of his house, Gauzlin. He reports that Gauzlin mistakenly believed that the \"heretics of Orléans\" \"nuptias non prohibeo, secunda matrimonio non dampno\" (\"they do not prohibit weddings, according to which they do not damn marriage\"); Andrew more accurately reports that \"nuptias con benedictione non debere fieri, sed accipiat quiscumque qualiter voluerit\" (\"weddings with a blessing they forbid to be made, rather they consider as indebted whomever wills it\"). Andrew also includes a copy of the letter Gauzlin addressed to Robert II of France in 1022, after the king asked him why blood had been seen to fall from the sky. He also records the poem to which the cycle of Apocalyptic frescoes at Fleury, commission by Gauzlin, corresponds.\n\n"}
{"id": "2687698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2687698", "title": "Bagé", "text": "Bagé\n\nBagé (, ) is a municipality in the south of the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. In 2007 its population was 164,550 (IBGE) in a total area of 4,096 km. It was the tenth largest city in the state in 2007\n\nBagé is located 374 km. southwest of the state capital, Porto Alegre and approximately 60 km north of the border with Uruguay at Aceguá. The distance to Pelotas to the east on BR 293 is 180 km. Other distances from Bagé are:\n\nSantana do Livramento: 170 km.\nJaguarão: 199 km.\nSanta Maria: 250 km. See Aonde Fica and Prefeitura Municipal de Bagé for distances.\n\nComandante Gustavo Kraemer International Airport serves the city and the region although currently no scheduled flights operate to and from it.\n\nAt an elevation of 242 meters above sea level just south of latitude 30° Bagé has a mild climate with maximum temperatures of 30 °C in January and 17 °C in June and minimum temperatures of 18 °C in January and 8 °C in June. Rainfall is spread out throughout the year with a maximum of 140.9 mm in July and a minimum of 103.1 mm in April.\n\nThe economy is based on services, light industry and agriculture. Transformation industries employed 2,460 workers in 2006 while there were 1,199 agricultural establishments on 300,000 hectares employing 3,500 workers. There were 319,000 head of cattle and 103,000 head of sheep in 2007. The main crops were rice, corn, soybeans, sorghum, and wheat.\n\nBecause of its location on the shortest route between Porto Alegre and Montevideu, Bagé has always played an important role in the history of Brazil and the state of Rio Grande do Sul. Its lands have been sought after by Indians, Portuguese, and the Spanish. Here were played out important events of the Cisplatine War and the Farroupilha and Federalist Revolutions.\n\nThe first contact between Amerindians (the Charruas) and the Spanish occurred in the second half of the seventeenth century when the Jesuits established a mission called Redução de Santo André dos Guenoas, in 1683.\n\nIn 1773, the governor of Buenos Aires, D. Juan José Vertiz y Salcedo, with 5,000 men, left the region of the Prata River to expel the Portuguese from Rio Grande do Sul. Arriving in this area he asked Bernardo Lecocq to build the Fort of Santa Tecla, of which there are still ruins. The fort was surrounded by a ditch 9 meters wide and 2.5 meters deep, with a 3 meter high wall. This fort was sacked twice, the first in 1776 when Rafael Pinto Bandeira invaded and expelled the Spanish. After signing the Treaty of Santo Idelfonso in 1777 a Spanish garrison again occupied the fort now at the border between the two empires.\n\nIn 1801, the Spanish abandoned all their advanced posts, including Fort Santa Tecla, which was, for the second time, demolished. The territory was once again Portuguese who always desired the \"European weather\" of the area.\n\nIn 1810, some of the Spanish colonies broke free from the motherland. In 1811 the governor of Rio Grande do Sul, Dom Diogo de Sousa (later Count of Rio Pardo), concentrated a large force of Portuguese on the borderlands, fearing military action on the part of the newly formed Spanish republics. A camp was set up near \"Cerros de Bagé\", site where the city of Bagé is now located. On 17 July 1811 Sousa left with his troops to invade the Banda Oriental (present-day Uruguay) to conquer it and annex all the territory leaving the Uruguay River as a new border between Argentina and Brazil, some camp followers who could not keep up with the movement of the troops, who founded the present-day city. The date for the foundation of Bagé, 17 July 1811, was officially agreed on in 1963.\n\nThere are several theories as to the origins of the name of Bagé. One is that there was an Indian chieftain in the region called Ibajé, although the existence of this Indian has never been proven. A more accepted theory is that the name comes from the Indian language and is related to the idea of \"hills\". The local Indians called the hills \"mbaiê\".\n\nThe settlement began to grow spreading out around the square called Praça da Matriz. In 1820 a simple church was built to house the image of the patron saint of the town, Saint Sebastian.\n\nEven after the final demarcation of the border the lands of Bagé were the theater of wars and battles. In 1825 Carlos de Alvear invaded the territory from Uruguay and in 1827 the forces of general Lavalleja conquered the town. In 1828 a treaty brought peace to the borderlands. Brazil accepted Uruguay's independence but in exchange kept some of the borderlands previously disputed for centuries between Spain and Portugal.\n\nIn 1835 it was the Gauchos who were fighting among each other. This new conflict was due to the ideals of republicans and imperialists. Bagé once again was witness to battles and pillaging. One of the most important, the Battle of Seival, took place between imperialist and republican forces led by Antônio de Souza Netto. The latter was victorious and he proclaimed the República Rio – Grandense.\n\nAfter this Farroupilha Revolution in 1846 Bagé was elevated to the category of \"freguesia\" and in the same year to \"vila\". In 1858 it was proclaimed head of the \"comarca\" and in 1859 it became a city.\n\nAnother revolution broke out in 1893 when the federalists reacted to the coming to power of the republicans. In this year Gumercindo Saraiva invaded Rio Grande do Sul and at Passo do Salsinho, the first combat took place. During this revolution the municipality was witness to the Battle of the Traíras, the Siege of Rio Negro, and the Siege of Bagé. At Rio Negro 300 prisoners had their throats cut. In the Siege of Bagé combats took place in the center of the town.\n\nWith the end of combats the beginning of the twentieth century seemed promising as Bagé had potential to become an industrial and agricultural center.\n\nNarratives from this period show that the climate was benign and the soil rich in natural resources, with special mention of the coal mines of Candiota and Rio Negro. In the cattle raising sector Bagé was a large producer of sheep, cows and horses. Agriculture was less developed with the main crops being wheat and rice.\n\nBagé could count on considerable urban progress. The first railroad was inaugurated in 1884 with the finishing of the line to Rio Grande. Electrical lighting arrived in 1899, with Bagé being the first city in the state to have this important sign of progress. In 1913 a piped water system was installed.\n\nDue to the importance of the city for the region it is called \"Queen of the Border\". It is the seat of the Universidade da Região da Campanha – URCAMP and is the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Bagé.\n\nIn 2005 there were 32 health establishments of which 3 were hospitals. These hospitals offered 251 beds. In the education sector there were 18,000 students in 71 primary schools, 5,896 students in 14 middle schools, 1,931 students in 77 pre-primary schools. In addition there were 3,595 students in one private college.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1500963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1500963", "title": "Bureau of American Ethnology", "text": "Bureau of American Ethnology\n\nThe Bureau of American Ethnology (or BAE, originally, Bureau of Ethnology) was established in 1879 by an act of Congress for the purpose of transferring archives, records and materials relating to the Indians of North America from the Interior Department to the Smithsonian Institution. But from the start, the bureau's visionary founding director, John Wesley Powell, promoted a broader mission: \"to organize anthropologic research in America.\" Under Powell, the bureau organized research-intensive multi-year projects; sponsored ethnographic, archaeological and linguistic field research; initiated publications series (most notably its Annual Reports and Bulletins); and promoted the fledgling discipline of anthropology. It prepared exhibits for expositions and collected anthropological artifacts for the Smithsonian United States National Museum. In addition, the BAE was the official repository of documents concerning American Indians collected by the various US geological surveys, especially the Geographical and Geological Survey of the Rocky Mountain Region and the Geological Survey of the Territories. It developed a manuscript repository, library and illustrations section that included photographic work and the collection of photographs.\n\nIn 1897, the Bureau of Ethnology's name changed to the Bureau of American Ethnology to emphasize the geographic limit of its interests, although its staff briefly conducted research in US possessions such as Hawaii and the Philippines. In 1965, the BAE merged with the Smithsonian's Department of Anthropology to form the Smithsonian Office of Anthropology within the United States National Museum (now the Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History). In 1968, the SOA archives became the National Anthropological Archives.\n\nThe BAE's staff included some of America's earliest field anthropologists, including Frank Hamilton Cushing, James Owen Dorsey, Jesse Walter Fewkes, Alice Cunningham Fletcher, John N.B. Hewitt, Francis LaFlesche, Cosmos and Victor Mindeleff, James Mooney, William Henry Holmes, Edward Palmer, James Stevenson, and Matilda Coxe Stevenson. In the 20th century, the BAE's staff included such anthropologists as Neil Judd, John Peabody Harrington (a linguist who spent more than 40 years documenting endangered languages), Matthew Stirling, and William C. Sturtevant. The BAE supported the work of many non-Smithsonian researchers (known as collaborators), most notably Franz Boas, Frances Densmore, Garrick Mallery, Washington Matthews, Paul Radin, Cyrus Thomas and T.T. Waterman.\n\nThe BAE had three subunits: the Mounds Survey (1882–1895); the Institute of Social Anthropology (1943–1952), and the River Basin Surveys (1946–1969).\n\nAt the time the BAE was founded, there was intense controversy over the identity of the Mound Builders, the term for the prehistoric people who had built complex, monumental earthwork mounds. Archaeologists, both amateur and professional, were divided between believing the mounds were built by passing groups of people who settled in various places elsewhere, or believing they could have been built by Native Americans. Cyrus Thomas, the Bureau's appointed head of the Division of Mound Exploration, eventually published his conclusions on the origins of the mounds in the Bureau's \"Annual Report of 1894.\" It is considered to be the last word in the controversy over the Mound builders' identities. After Thomas' publication, scholars generally accepted that varying cultures of prehistoric indigenous peoples, Native Americans, were the Mound builders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59078900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59078900", "title": "Camaldolese Bible", "text": "Camaldolese Bible\n\nCamaldolese Bible () is the first known complete transaltion of Bible into Slovak language. The Bible was translated from Vulgate by Camaldolese monks at Červený Kláštor monastery. The completed translation had been rewrittten in 1756-1759. The translation is characterized by the effort to use forms and expressions of common Slovak spoken language, with distinctive Western-Slovak elements and some literary linguistic elements of Czech origin.\n\n"}
{"id": "99656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99656", "title": "Creative destruction", "text": "Creative destruction\n\nCreative destruction (German: \"schöpferische Zerstörung\"), sometimes known as Schumpeter's gale, is a concept in economics which since the 1950s has become most readily identified with the Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter who derived it from the work of Karl Marx and popularized it as a theory of economic innovation and the business cycle.\n\nAccording to Schumpeter, the \"gale of creative destruction\" describes the \"process of industrial mutation that incessantly revolutionizes the economic structure from within, incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating a new one\". In Marxian economic theory the concept refers more broadly to the linked processes of the accumulation and annihilation of wealth under capitalism.\n\nThe German Marxist sociologist Werner Sombart has been credited with the first use of these terms in his work \"Krieg und Kapitalismus\" (\"War and Capitalism\", 1913). In the earlier work of Marx, however, the idea of creative destruction or annihilation (German: \"Vernichtung\") implies not only that capitalism destroys and reconfigures previous economic orders, but also that it must ceaselessly devalue existing wealth (whether through war, dereliction, or regular and periodic economic crises) in order to clear the ground for the creation of new wealth.\n\nIn \"Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy\" (1942), Joseph Schumpeter developed the concept out of a careful reading of Marx’s thought (to which the whole of Part I of the book is devoted), arguing (in Part II) that the creative-destructive forces unleashed by capitalism would eventually lead to its demise as a system (see below). Despite this, the term subsequently gained popularity within neoliberal or free-market economics as a description of processes such as downsizing in order to increase the efficiency and dynamism of a company. The Marxian usage has, however, been retained and further developed in the work of social scientists such as David Harvey, Marshall Berman, Manuel Castells and Daniele Archibugi.\n\nAlthough the modern term \"creative destruction\" is not used explicitly by Marx, it is largely derived from his analyses, particularly in the work of Werner Sombart (whom Engels described as the only German professor who understood Marx's \"Capital\"), and of Joseph Schumpeter, who discussed at length the origin of the idea in Marx's work (see below).\n\nIn \"The Communist Manifesto\" of 1848, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels described the crisis tendencies of capitalism in terms of \"the enforced destruction of a mass of productive forces\":\nModern bourgeois society, with its relations of production, of exchange and of property, a society that has conjured up such gigantic means of production and of exchange, is like the sorcerer who is no longer able to control the powers of the nether world whom he has called up by his spells. [...] It is enough to mention the commercial crises that by their periodical return put the existence of the whole of bourgeois society on trial, each time more threateningly. In these crises, \"a great part not only of existing production, but also of previously created productive forces, are periodically destroyed\". In these crises, there breaks out an epidemic that, in all earlier epochs, would have seemed an absurdity – the epidemic of over-production. Society suddenly finds itself put back into a state of momentary barbarism; it appears as if a famine, a universal war of devastation, had cut off the supply of every means of subsistence; industry and commerce seem to be destroyed; and why? Because there is too much civilisation, too much means of subsistence, too much industry, too much commerce. The productive forces at the disposal of society no longer tend to further the development of the conditions of bourgeois property; on the contrary, they have become too powerful for these conditions. […] And how does the bourgeoisie get over these crises? On the one hand by \"enforced destruction of a mass of productive forces\"; on the other, by the conquest of new markets, and by the more thorough exploitation of the old ones. That is to say, by paving the way for more extensive and more destructive crises, and by diminishing the means whereby crises are prevented.\nA few years later, in the \"Grundrisse\", Marx was writing of \"the violent destruction of capital not by relations external to it, but rather as a condition of its self-preservation\". In other words, he establishes a necessary link between the generative or creative forces of production in capitalism and the destruction of capital value as one of the key ways in which capitalism attempts to overcome its internal contradictions:\nThese contradictions lead to explosions, cataclysms, crises, in which [...] momentaneous suspension of labour and annihilation of a great portion of capital [...] violently lead it back to the point where it is enabled [to go on] fully employing its productive powers without committing suicide.\nIn the \"Theories of Surplus Value\" (\"Volume IV\" of \"Das Kapital\", 1863), Marx refines this theory to distinguish between scenarios where the destruction of (commodity) values affects either use values or exchange values or both together. The destruction of exchange value combined with the preservation of use value presents clear opportunities for new capital investment and hence for the repetition of the production-devaluation cycle:\nthe destruction of capital through crises means the depreciation of values which prevents them from later renewing their reproduction process as capital on the same scale. This is the ruinous effect of the fall in the prices of commodities. It does not cause the destruction of any use-values. What one loses, the other gains. Values used as capital are prevented from acting again as capital in the hands of the same person. The old capitalists go bankrupt. [...] A large part of the nominal capital of the society, i.e., of the exchange-value of the existing capital, is once for all destroyed, although this very destruction, since it does not affect the use-value, may very much expedite the new reproduction. This is also the period during which moneyed interest enriches itself at the cost of industrial interest.\nSocial geographer David Harvey sums up the differences between Marx's usage of these concepts and Schumpeter's: \"Both Karl Marx and Joseph Schumpeter wrote at length on the 'creative-destructive' tendencies inherent in capitalism. While Marx clearly admired capitalism's creativity he [...] strongly emphasised its self-destructiveness. The Schumpeterians have all along gloried in capitalism's endless creativity while treating the destructiveness as mostly a matter of the normal costs of doing business\".\n\nIn the Origin of Species, which was published in 1859, Charles Darwin wrote that the \"extinction of old forms is the almost inevitable consequence of the production of new forms.\" One notable exception to this rule is how the extinction of the dinosaurs facilitated the adaptive radiation of mammals. In this case creation was the consequence, rather than the cause, of destruction. \n\nIn philosophical terms, the concept of \"creative destruction\" is close to Hegel´s concept of sublation. In German economic discourse it was taken up from Marx's writings by Werner Sombart, particularly in his 1913 text \"Krieg und Kapitalismus\":\nAgain, however, \"from destruction a new spirit of creation arises;\" the scarcity of wood and the needs of everyday life... forced the discovery or invention of substitutes for wood, forced the use of coal for heating, forced the invention of coke for the production of iron.\nHugo Reinert has argued that Sombart's formulation of the concept was influenced by Eastern mysticism, specifically the image of the Hindu god Shiva, who is presented in the paradoxical aspect of simultaneous destroyer and creator. Conceivably this influence passed from Johann Gottfried Herder, who brought Hindu thought to German philosophy in his \"Philosophy of Human History\" (Ideen zur Philosophie der Geschichte der Menschheit) (Herder 1790–92), specifically volume III, pp. 41–64. via Arthur Schopenhauer and the Orientalist Friedrich Maier through Friedrich Nietzsche´s writings. Nietzsche represented the creative destruction of modernity through the mythical figure of Dionysus, a figure whom he saw as at one and the same time \"destructively creative\" and \"creatively destructive\". In the following passage from \"On the Genealogy of Morality\" (1887), Nietzsche argues for a universal principle of a cycle of creation and destruction, such that every creative act has its destructive consequence:\nBut have you ever asked yourselves sufficiently how much the erection of every ideal on earth has cost? How much reality has had to be misunderstood and slandered, how many lies have had to be sanctified, how many consciences disturbed, how much \"God\" sacrificed every time? If a temple is to be erected a temple must be destroyed: that is the law – let anyone who can show me a case in which it is not fulfilled! – Friedrich Nietzsche, \"On the Genealogy of Morality\"\n\nOther nineteenth-century formulations of this idea include Russian anarchist Mikhail Bakunin, who wrote in 1842, \"The passion for destruction is a creative passion, too!\" Note, however, that this earlier formulation might more accurately be termed \"destructive creation\", and differs sharply from Marx's and Schumpeter's formulations in its focus on the active destruction of the existing social and political order by human agents (as opposed to systemic forces or contradictions in the case of both Marx and Schumpeter).\n\nThe expression \"creative destruction\" was popularized by and is most associated with Joseph Schumpeter, particularly in his book \"Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy\", first published in 1942. Already in his 1939 book \"Business Cycles\", he attempted to refine the innovative ideas of Nikolai Kondratieff and his long-wave cycle which Schumpeter believed was driven by technological innovation. Three years later, in \"Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy\", Schumpeter introduced the term \"creative destruction\", which he explicitly derived from Marxist thought (analysed extensively in Part I of the book) and used it to describe the disruptive process of transformation that accompanies such innovation:\nCapitalism [...] is by nature a form or method of economic change and not only never is but never can be stationary. [...] The fundamental impulse that sets and keeps the capitalist engine in motion comes from the new consumers’ goods, the new methods of production or transportation, the new markets, the new forms of industrial organization that capitalist enterprise creates.[...] The opening up of new markets, foreign or domestic, and the organizational development from the craft shop and factory to such concerns as U.S. Steel illustrate the process of industrial mutation that incessantly revolutionizes the economic structure \"from within\", incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating a new one. This process of Creative Destruction is the essential fact about capitalism. It is what capitalism consists in and what every capitalist concern has got to live in.[... Capitalism requires] the perennial gale of Creative Destruction.\nIn Schumpeter's vision of capitalism, innovative entry by entrepreneurs was the disruptive force that sustained economic growth, even as it destroyed the value of established companies and laborers that enjoyed some degree of monopoly power derived from previous technological, organizational, regulatory, and economic paradigms. However, Schumpeter was pessimistic about the sustainability of this process, seeing it as leading eventually to the undermining of capitalism's own institutional frameworks:\nIn breaking down the pre-capitalist framework of society, capitalism thus broke not only barriers that impeded its progress but also flying buttresses that prevented its collapse. That process, impressive in its relentless necessity, was not merely a matter of removing institutional deadwood, but of removing partners of the capitalist stratum, symbiosis with whom was an essential element of the capitalist schema. [... T]he capitalist process in much the same way in which it destroyed the institutional framework of feudal society also undermines its own.\nSchumpeter nevertheless elaborated the concept, making it central to his economic theory, and it was later taken up as a major doctrine of the so-called Austrian School of free-market economic thought.\n\n Schumpeter (1949) in one of his examples used \"the railroadization of the Middle West as it was initiated by the Illinois Central.\" He wrote, \"The Illinois Central not only meant very good business whilst it was built and whilst new cities were built around it and land was cultivated, but it spelled the death sentence for the [old] agriculture of the West.\"\n\nCompanies that once revolutionized and dominated new industries – for example, Xerox in copiers or Polaroid in instant photography – have seen their profits fall and their dominance vanish as rivals launched improved designs or cut manufacturing costs. In technology, the cassette tape replaced the 8-track, only to be replaced in turn by the compact disc, which was undercut by downloads to MP3 players, which is now being usurped by web-based streaming services. Companies which made money out of technology which becomes obsolete do not necessarily adapt well to the business environment created by the new technologies.\n\nOne such example is the way in which online ad-supported news sites such as \"The Huffington Post\" are leading to creative destruction of the traditional newspaper. The \"Christian Science Monitor\" announced in January 2009 that it would no longer continue to publish a daily paper edition, but would be available online daily and provide a weekly print edition. The \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\" became online-only in March 2009. At a national level in USA, employment in the newspaper business fell from 455,700 in 1990 to 225,100 in 2013. Over that same period, employment in internet publishing and broadcasting grew from 29,400 to 121,200. Traditional French alumni networks, which typically charge their students to network online or through paper directories, are in danger of creative destruction from free social networking sites such as Linkedin and Viadeo.\n\nIn fact, successful innovation is normally a source of temporary market power, eroding the profits and position of old firms, yet ultimately succumbing to the pressure of new inventions commercialised by competing entrants. Creative destruction is a powerful economic concept because it can explain many of the dynamics or kinetics of industrial change: the transition from a competitive to a monopolistic market, and back again. It has been the inspiration of endogenous growth theory and also of evolutionary economics.\n\nDavid Ames Wells (1890), who was a leading authority on the effects of technology on the economy in the late 19th century, gave many examples of creative destruction (without using the term) brought about by improvements in steam engine efficiency, shipping, the international telegraph network, and agricultural mechanization.\n\nGeographer and historian David Harvey in a series of works from the 1970s onwards (\"Social Justice and the City\", 1973; \"The Limits to Capital\", 1982; \"The Urbanization of Capital\", 1985; \"Spaces of Hope\", 2000; \"Spaces of Capital\", 2001; \"Spaces of Neoliberalization\", 2005; \"The Enigma of Capital and the Crises of Capitalism\", 2010), elaborated Marx's thought on the systemic contradictions of capitalism, particularly in relation to the production of the urban environment (and to the production of space more broadly). He developed the notion that capitalism finds a \"spatial fix\" for its periodic crises of overaccumulation through investment in fixed assets of infrastructure, buildings, etc.: \"The built environment that constitutes a vast field of collective means of production and consumption absorbs huge amounts of capital in both its construction and its maintenance. Urbanization is one way to absorb the capital surplus\". While the creation of the built environment can act as a form of crisis displacement, it can also constitute a limit in its own right, as it tends to freeze productive forces into a fixed spatial form. As capital cannot abide a limit to profitability, ever more frantic forms of \"time-space compression\" (increased speed of turnover, innovation of ever faster transport and communications' infrastructure, \"flexible accumulation\") ensue, often impelling technological innovation. Such innovation, however, is a double-edged sword:\n\nGlobalization can be viewed as some ultimate form of time-space compression, allowing capital investment to move almost instantaneously from one corner of the globe to another, devaluing fixed assets and laying off labour in one urban conglommeration while opening up new centres of manufacture in more profitable sites for production operations. Hence, in this continual process of creative destruction, capitalism does not resolve its contradictions and crises, but merely \"moves them around geographically\".\n\nIn his 1987 book \"All That is Solid Melts into Air: The Experience of Modernity\", particularly in the chapter entitled \"Innovative Self-Destruction\" (pp. 98–104), Marshall Berman provides a reading of Marxist \"creative destruction\" to explain key processes at work within modernity. The title of the book is taken from a well-known passage from \"The Communist Manifesto\". Berman elaborates this into something of a \"Zeitgeist\" which has profound social and cultural consequences:\n\nHere Berman emphasizes Marx's perception of the fragility and evanescence of capitalism's immense creative forces, and makes this apparent contradiction into one of the key explanatory figures of modernity.\n\nThe sociologist Manuel Castells, in his trilogy on \"\" (the first volume of which, \"\", appeared in 1996), reinterpreted the processes by which capitalism invests in certain regions of the globe, while divesting from others, using the new paradigm of \"informational networks\". In the era of globalization, capitalism is characterized by near-instantaneous flow, creating a new spatial dimension, \"the space of flows\". While technological innovation has enabled this unprecedented fluidity, this very process makes redundant whole areas and populations who are bypassed by informational networks. Indeed, the new spatial form of the mega-city or megalopolis, is defined by Castells as having the contradictory quality of being \"globally connected and locally disconnected, physically and socially\". Castells explicitly links these arguments to the notion of creative destruction:\n\nDeveloping the Schumpeterian legacy, the school of the Science Policy Research Unit of the University of Sussex has further detailed the importance of creative destruction exploring, in particular, how new technologies are often idiosyncratic with the existing productive regimes and will lead to bankruptcy companies and even industries that do not manage to sustain the rate of change. Chris Freeman and Carlota Perez have developed these insights. More recently, Daniele Archibugi and Andrea Filippetti have associated the 2008 economic crisis to the slow-down of opportunities offered by information and communication technologies (ICTs). Using as a metaphor the film \"Blade Runner\", Archibugi has argued that of the innovations described in the film in 1982, all those associated to ICTs have become part of our everyday life. But, on the contrary, none of those in the field of Biotech have been fully commercialized. A new economic recovery will occur when some key technological opportunities will be identified and sustained.\n\nIn 1992, the idea of creative destruction was put into formal mathematical terms by Philippe Aghion and Peter Howitt, giving an alternative model of endogenous growth compared to Paul Romer's expanding varieties model.\n\nIn 1995, Harvard Business School authors Richard L. Nolan and David C. Croson released \"Creative Destruction: A Six-Stage Process for Transforming the Organization.\" The book advocated downsizing to free up slack resources, which could then be reinvested to create competitive advantage.\n\nMore recently, the idea of \"creative destruction\" was utilized by Max Page in his 1999 book, \"The Creative Destruction of Manhattan, 1900–1940.\" The book traces Manhattan's constant reinvention, often at the expense of preserving a concrete past. Describing this process as \"creative destruction,\" Page describes the complex historical circumstances, economics, social conditions and personalities that have produced crucial changes in Manhattan's cityscape.\n\nIn addition to Max Page, others have used the term “creative destruction” to describe the process of urban renewal and modernization. T.C. Chang and Shirlena Huang referenced “creative destruction” in their paper \"Recreating place, replacing memory: Creative Destruction at the Singapore River.\" The authors explored the efforts to redevelop a waterfront area that reflected a vibrant new culture while paying sufficient homage to the history of the region. Rosemary Wakeman chronicled the evolution of an area in central Paris, France known as Les Halles. Les Halles housed a vibrant marketplace starting in the twelfth century. Ultimately, in 1971, the markets were relocated and the pavilions torn down. In their place, now stand a hub for trains, subways and buses. Les Halles is also the site of the largest shopping mall in France and the controversial Centre Georges Pompidou.\n\nThe term “creative destruction” has been applied to the arts. Alan Ackerman and Martin Puncher (2006) edited a collection of essays under the title \"Against Theater: Creative destruction on the modernist stage.\" They detail the changes and the causal motivations experienced in theater as a result of the modernization of both the production of performances and the underlying economics. They speak of how theater has reinvented itself in the face of anti-theatricality, straining the boundaries of the traditional to include more physical productions, which might be considered avant-garde staging techniques.\n\nIn his 1999 book, \"Still the New World, American Literature in a Culture of Creative Destruction\", Philip Fisher analyzes the themes of creative destruction at play in literary works of the twentieth century, including the works of such authors as Ralph Waldo Emerson, Walt Whitman, Herman Melville, Mark Twain, and Henry James, among others. Fisher argues that creative destruction exists within literary forms just as it does within the changing of technology.\n\nNeoconservative author Michael Ledeen argued in his 2002 book \"The War Against the Terror Masters\" that America is a revolutionary nation, undoing traditional societies: \"Creative destruction is our middle name, both within our own society and abroad. We tear down the old order every day, from business to science, literature, art, architecture, and cinema to politics and the law.\" His characterization of creative destruction as a model for social development has met with fierce opposition from paleoconservatives.\n\nCreative destruction has also been linked to sustainable development. The connection was explicitly mentioned for the first time by Stuart L. Hart and Mark B. Milstein in their 1999 article \"Global Sustainability and the Creative Destruction of Industries\", in which he argues new profit opportunities lie in a round of creative destruction driven by global sustainability. (An argument which they would later on strengthen in their 2003 article \"Creating Sustainable Value\" and, in 2005, with \"Innovation, Creative Destruction and Sustainability\".) Andrea L. Larson agreed with this vision a year later in \"Sustainable Innovation Through an Entrepreneurship Lens\", stating entrepreneurs should be open to the opportunities for disruptive improvement based on sustainability. In 2005, James Hartshorn (et al.) emphasized the opportunities for sustainable, disruptive improvement in the construction industry in his article \"Creative Destruction: Building Toward Sustainability\".\n\nThe following text appears to be the source of the phrase \"Schumpeter's Gale\" to refer to creative destruction:\n\nThe film \"Other People's Money\" (1991) provides contrasting views of creative destruction, presented in two speeches regarding the takeover of a publicly traded wire and cable company in a small New England town. One speech is by a corporate raider, and the other is given by the company CEO, who is principally interested in protecting his employees and the town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "989128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=989128", "title": "Discourse analysis", "text": "Discourse analysis\n\nDiscourse analysis (DA), or discourse studies, is the approaches to analyze written, vocal, or sign language use, or any significant semiotic event.\n\nThe objects of discourse analysis (discourse, writing, conversation, communicative event) are variously defined in terms of coherent sequences of sentences, propositions, speech, or turns-at-talk. Contrary to much of traditional linguistics, discourse analysts not only study language use 'beyond the sentence boundary' but also prefer to analyze 'naturally occurring' language use, not invented examples. Text linguistics is a closely related field. The essential difference between discourse analysis and text linguistics is that discourse analysis aims at revealing socio-psychological characteristics of a person/persons rather than text structure.\n\nDiscourse analysis has been taken up in a variety of disciplines in the humanities and social sciences, including linguistics, education, sociology, anthropology, social work, cognitive psychology, social psychology, area studies, cultural studies, international relations, human geography, communication studies, biblical studies, and translation studies, each of which is subject to its own assumptions, dimensions of analysis, and methodologies.\n\nTopics of discourse analysis include:\n\nPolitical discourse analysis is a field of discourse analysis which focuses on discourse in political forums (such as debates, speeches, and hearings) as the phenomenon of interest. Policy analysis requires discourse analysis to be effective from the post-positivist perspective.\n\nPolitical discourse is the formal exchange of reasoned views as to which of several alternative courses of action should be taken to solve a societal problem.\n\nAn example of an analysis of political discourse is Roffee's 2016 examination into speech acts surrounding the justification of the legislative processes concerning the Australian federal government's intervening in the Northern Territory Aboriginal communities. The intervention was a hasty reaction to a social problem. Through this analysis, Roffee established that there was, in fact, an unwillingness to respond on behalf of the government, and the intervention was, in fact, no more than another attempt to control the Indigenous population. However, due to the political rhetoric used, this was largely unidentified.\n\nCorporate discourse can be broadly defined as the language used by corporations. It encompasses a set of messages that a corporation sends out to the world (the general public, the customers and other corporations) and the messages it uses to communicate within its own structures (the employees and other stakeholders).\n\nAlthough the ancient Greeks (among others) had much to say on discourse, some scholars consider Austria-born Leo Spitzer's \"Stilstudien\" (\"Style Studies\") of 1928 the earliest example of \"discourse analysis\" (DA). Michel Foucault translated it into French.\n\nHowever, the term first came into general use following the publication of a series of papers by Zellig Harris from 1952 reporting on work from which he developed transformational grammar in the late 1930s. Formal equivalence relations among the sentences of a coherent discourse are made explicit by using sentence transformations to put the text in a canonical form. Words and sentences with equivalent information then appear in the same column of an array. This work progressed over the next four decades (see references) into a science of sublanguage analysis (Kittredge & Lehrberger 1982), culminating in a demonstration of the informational structures in texts of a sublanguage of science, that of Immunology, (Harris et al. 1989) and a fully articulated theory of linguistic informational content (Harris 1991). During this time, however, most linguists ignored such developments in favor of a succession of elaborate theories of sentence-level syntax and semantics.\n\nIn January 1953, a linguist working for the American Bible Society, James A. Lauriault/Loriot, needed to find answers to some fundamental errors in translating Quechua, in the Cuzco area of Peru. Following Harris's 1952 publications, he worked over the meaning and placement of each word in a collection of Quechua legends with a native speaker of Quechua and was able to formulate discourse rules that transcended the simple sentence structure. He then applied the process to Shipibo, another language of Eastern Peru. He taught the theory at the Summer Institute of Linguistics in Norman, Oklahoma, in the summers of 1956 and 1957 and entered the University of Pennsylvania to study with Harris in the interim year. He tried to publish a paper \"Shipibo Paragraph Structure\", but it was delayed until 1970 (Loriot & Hollenbach 1970). In the meantime, Kenneth Lee Pike, a professor at University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, taught the theory, and one of his students, Robert E. Longacre developed it in his writings.\n\nHarris's methodology disclosing the correlation of form with meaning was developed into a system for the computer-aided analysis of natural language by a team led by Naomi Sager at NYU, which has been applied to a number of sublanguage domains, most notably to medical informatics. The software for the Medical Language Processor is publicly available on SourceForge.\n\nIn the late 1960s and 1970s, and without reference to this prior work, a variety of other approaches to a new cross-discipline of DA began to develop in most of the humanities and social sciences concurrently with, and related to, other disciplines, such as semiotics, psycholinguistics, sociolinguistics, and pragmatics. Many of these approaches, especially those influenced by the social sciences, favor a more dynamic study of oral talk-in-interaction. An example is \"conversational analysis\", which was influenced by the Sociologist Harold Garfinkel, the founder of Ethnomethodology.\n\nIn Europe, Michel Foucault became one of the key theorists of the subject, especially of discourse, and wrote The Archaeology of Knowledge. In this context, the term 'discourse' no longer refers to formal linguistic aspects, but to institutionalized patterns of knowledge that become manifest in disciplinary structures and operate by the connection of knowledge and power. Since the 1970s, Foucault's works have had an increasing impact especially on discourse analysis in the social sciences. Thus, in modern European social sciences, one can find a wide range of different approaches working with Foucault's definition of discourse and his theoretical concepts. Apart from the original context in France, there is, at least since 2005, a broad discussion on socio-scientific discourse analysis in Germany. Here, for example, the sociologist Reiner Keller developed his widely recognized 'Sociology of Knowledge Approach to Discourse (SKAD)'. Following the sociology of knowledge by Peter L. Berger and Thomas Luckmann, Keller argues, that our sense of reality in everyday life and thus the meaning of every object, actions and events are the product of a permanent, routinized interaction. In this context, SKAD has been developed as a scientific perspective that is able to understand the processes of 'The Social Construction of Reality' on all levels of social life by combining Michel Foucault's theories of discourse and power with the theory of knowledge by Berger/Luckmann. Whereas the latter primarily focus on the constitution and stabilisation of knowledge on the level of interaction, Foucault's perspective concentrates on institutional contexts of the production and integration of knowledge, where the subject mainly appears to be determined by knowledge and power. Therefore, the 'Sociology of Knowledge Approach to Discourse' can also be seen as an approach to deal with the vividly discussed micro–macro problem in sociology.\n\nThe following are some of the specific theoretical perspectives and analytical approaches used in linguistic discourse analysis:\n\n\nAlthough these approaches emphasize different aspects of language use, they all view language as social interaction and are concerned with the social contexts in which discourse is embedded.\n\nOften a distinction is made between 'local' structures of discourse (such as relations among sentences, propositions, and turns) and 'global' structures, such as overall topics and the schematic organization of discourses and conversations. For instance, many types of discourse begin with some kind of global 'summary', in titles, headlines, leads, abstracts, and so on.\n\nA problem for the discourse analyst is to decide when a particular feature is relevant to the specification is required. A question many linguists ask is: \"Are there general principles which will determine the relevance or nature of the specification?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16074984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16074984", "title": "Dobley airstrike", "text": "Dobley airstrike\n\nAt 3:25 AM on 3 March 2008, two BGM-109 Tomahawk cruise missiles launched by a United States Navy warship hit the village of Dobley in Somalia. According to US military officials the target of the attack was an al-Qaeda leader. Dobley district commissioner Ali Hussein Nuir stated that Sheikh Hassan Turki, a local militant cleric was meeting with leaders of a Mogadishu-based militant group nearby. Varying reports of casualties surfaced with villagers reporting that between four and six people were dead. It is unclear whether these casualties were targets or civilians. Villagers also reported that an aircraft had attacked them, but US military officials denied these reports merely stating that an attack had indeed occurred and that they were looking into the results. At least two previous attacks of a similar nature occurred in 2007 where American forces targeted suspected al-Qaeda operatives in Ras Kamboni as well as in Bargal.\n\nJane's Defence Weekly, writing in its 12 March 2008 issue, said the attack was reportedly carried out by a U.S. Navy submarine, firing Tomahawks. Jane's said several news reports said the target of the attack was Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan, sought by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in connection with 2002 terrorist attacks in Kenya against hotels and a civilian airliner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49024634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49024634", "title": "Edgewise (book)", "text": "Edgewise (book)\n\nEdgewise: A Picture of Cookie Mueller is a book by Chloe Griffin published in 2014. Published by Bbooks Verlag, \"Edgewise\" is an oral history of the actress and writer Cookie Mueller.\n\n\"Edgewise\" is an oral history of the actress and writer Cookie Mueller. Griffin spent roughly eight years researching and writing \"Edgewise\". She spent half a decade interviewing nearly 90 people for the book. The book discusses Mueller's life in John Waters' Baltimore from 1966–1969, the \"hippie commune\" Provincetown, Massachusetts, from 1969–1976, and New York City from 1976–1988. The book contains images and photomontages of Cookie, which reviewer Emily Gould of \"Paper\" magazine said \"give a beautiful visual sense of Cookie's life and times\".\n\nGriffin interviewed Sharon Niesp, who was Mueller's longtime partner and caretaker when she became ill because of AIDS-related causes. Griffin interviewed Provincetown, Massachusetts, resident Earl Devries, who said, \"She wanted my sperm.\" He donated his sperm to Mueller, who had a son, Max. Griffin interviewed Mueller's friend Gabriel Rotello who told her, \"Her memorial was incredibly well attended for a time when people were really getting tired of them.\"\n\nAlexandra Molotkow noted that some books spent too much time justifying the time spent discussing \"unsung artists\" or are more about the author rather than the subject. She praised Griffin's book, writing that unlike those books, \"Edgewise\" \"feels like a tribute that wrote its own terms\". Molotkow found it to be \"a love story, a true love story – true love, and raw grief, for a woman who died 25 years ago\". Steve Desroches lauded the book for being \"impeccable in its artistry, its biography, and in its attention to, sifting through an unruly archive of Mueller's life that has yet to be assembled and cataloged\".\n\nPati Hertling of \"Bomb\" magazine praised \"Edgewise\" for being a \"a sensitive and thrilling oral history that captures her life from her childhood in suburban Maryland, through the wild times with John Waters, Divine, Sue Lowe, Mink Stole, and others in Baltimore\". Travis Jeppesen wrote that Griffin \"has synthesized a detail-rich biographical tapestry woven of the voices that knew Mueller best\". Richard Hell, who was interviewed for the book, said when Griffin approached him, he was initially cynical of the project because Griffin had not known Mueller. But he found that Griffin's book \"[did] Cookie justice\" and \"gives us Cookie's life and world in epic 3-D detail by seamlessly weaving together the loving and astonished testimony of most of the people who knew her\".\n\nMatt Kessler wrote in \"The Rumpus\" that \"Edgewise\" is \"a definitive archive of Cookie’s life\" and \"a stunning portrait of both Cookie and the worlds that she inhabited\". \"The Brooklyn Rail\"s Jarrett Earnest wrote, \"It's great that this handsome and thorough book exists because it is the celebration Indiana calls for, and anyone interested in Cookie Mueller or New York in the ’80s will be grateful it exists.\" Matthew Hays of \"Xtra!\" extolled Griffin for \"penn[ing] an amazing tribute to the late icon\" and found the book to be \"an exhilarating read\".\n\nChloé Griffin is a Canadian artist, actress, and author who is a Berlin resident. She lived in London briefly with her fiancé translator Samuel Wilder, from Kansas, US. After he cheated on her she later ended the relationship. She lives and works in Kreuzberg in Berlin. Born in California, she was raised in Canada.\n\nGriffin's visual arts works have been showcased at New York's Gavin Brown's Enterprise. She starred in the 2009 film \"Saturn Returns\", the 2013 film \"L'Amour Sauvage\", and a few small-cost French and Canadian horror movies. She also starred in the 2015 film \"Desire Will Set You Free\", a movie about Berlin's queer art locale.\n\nGriffin grew interested in Cookie Mueller after seeing Mueller in \"Female Trouble\" in \"my first year out of high school in Montreal\" and reading Mueller's short stories book \"Walking Through Clear Water in a Pool Painted Black\". She found Mueller's \"intensely free and wild way of living\" to be \"hugely inspirational\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2530020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2530020", "title": "Edward Channing", "text": "Edward Channing\n\nEdward Perkins Channing (June 15, 1856 – January 7, 1931) was an American historian and an author of a monumental \"History of the United States\" in six volumes, for which he won the 1926 Pulitzer Prize for History. His thorough research in printed sources and judicious judgments made the book a standard reference for scholars for decades. Channing taught at Harvard 1883–1929 and trained many PhD's who became professors at major universities.\n\nEdward Channing was born in Dorchester, Massachusetts, the fifth child of Ellen Kilshaw Fuller (1820–56), a sister of Margaret Fuller, and William Ellery Channing (1818–1901), the poet and walking companion of Henry David Thoreau. Some months after his birth, his mother died, and he was placed out with a shoemaker and his wife in Abington, Mass. Some time around 1860, his paternal grandfather Walter Channing and his daughter took care of him. Young Edward Channing attended a private school and entered Harvard College in autumn 1874. He received his A.B. in 1878, and two years later he received his PhD. in history with a thesis on the Louisiana Purchase. In 1880, his grandfather died, leaving an inheritance of $300 (). He undertook a nine-months tour through Europe, which led him also to the Near East and North Africa. After he returned, he wrote geographical articles for \"Science\", for example about the Sudan and geography-instruction at German schools. In 1883, he became an instructor of history at Harvard University and an assistant for professor Charles Cutler Torrey. On July 22, 1886, he married the sister-in-law of Thomas Wentworth Higginson, Alice Thacher. They had two daughters.\n\nIn 1883 Channing received a prize of $150 for his work \"Town and County Government in the English Colonies of North America\". This monograph also brought him the membership in the Massachusetts Historical Society and was the basis of the first paper given at the first meeting of the American Historical Association in 1884 in Saratoga, New York.\n\nIn 1883 Channing published a revised edition (translated by William H. Tillinghast) of \"An Epitome of Ancient, Medieval, and Modern History\" by German historian Karl Ploetz, adding new sections on English and U.S. history.\n\nIn 1887 Channing became assistant professor, in 1897 professor, and in 1912 McLean Professor of Ancient and Modern History (one of the oldest professorships for secular history in the United States, once held by Jared Sparks). He retired in 1929.\n\nChanning was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a Member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters. He was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1885. Channing was elected president of the American Historical Association in 1919. In 1921 and 1926 respectively, he received honorary doctorates from Michigan University and Columbia University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18916649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18916649", "title": "Edward J. Cowan", "text": "Edward J. Cowan\n\nEdward J. Cowan FRSE born in 1944 in Edinburgh is a Scottish historian. Now Emeritus Professor, formerly Professor of Scottish History at the University of Glasgow and Director of the university’s Dumfries Campus, he previously taught at the Universities of Edinburgh and Guelph, Ontario. He is a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, He has also been a Visiting Professor in Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the USA.\n\nHe lives in the Glenkens area of Kirkcudbrightshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "7322279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7322279", "title": "Fast fashion", "text": "Fast fashion\n\nFast fashion is a contemporary term used by fashion retailers to express that designs move from catwalk quickly to capture current fashion trends. Fast fashion clothing collections are based on the most recent fashion trends presented at Fashion Week in both the spring and the autumn of every year. Emphasis is on optimizing certain aspects of the supply chain for these trends to be designed and manufactured quickly and inexpensively to allow the mainstream consumer to buy current clothing styles at a lower price. This philosophy of quick manufacturing at an affordable price is used in large retailers such as H&M, Zara, Peacocks, Primark, Xcel Brands, and Topshop. It particularly came to the fore during the vogue for \"boho chic\" in the mid-2000s.\n\nThis has developed from a product-driven concept based on a manufacturing model referred to as \"quick response\" developed in the U.S. in the 1980s and moved to a market-based model of \"fast fashion\" in the late 1990s and first part of the 21st century. Zara has been at the forefront of this fashion retail revolution and their brand has almost become synonymous with the term, but there were other retailers who worked with the concept before the label was applied, such as Benetton. Fast fashion has also become associated with disposable fashion because it has delivered designer product to a mass market at relatively low prices.\n\nThe slow fashion or conscious fashion movement has arisen in opposition to fast fashion, blaming it for pollution (both in the production of clothes and in the decay of synthetic fabrics), shoddy workmanship, and emphasizing very brief trends over classic style. Elizabeth L. Cline's 2012 book Overdressed: The Shockingly High Cost of Cheap Fashion was one of the first investigations into the human and environmental toll of fast fashion. Fast fashion has also come under criticism for contributing to poor working conditions in developing countries. The 2013 Savar building collapse in Bangladesh in 2013, the deadliest garment-related accident in world history, brought more attention to the safety impact of the fast fashion industry.\n\nThe primary objective of fast fashion is to quickly produce a product in a cost-efficient manner to respond to fast-changing consumer tastes in as near real time as possible. This efficiency is achieved through the retailers’ understanding of the target market's wants, which is a high fashion-looking garment at a price at the lower end of the clothing sector. Primarily, the concept of category management has been used to align the retail buyer and the manufacturer in a more collaborative relationship. This collaboration occurs as many companies’ resources are pooled to further develop more sophisticated and efficient supply chain models to increase the market's total profit. The fast fashion market utilizes this by uniting with foreign manufacturers to keep prices at a minimum.\n\nQuick Response (QR) was developed to improve manufacturing processes in the textile industry with the aim of removing time from the production system. The U.S. Apparel Manufacturing Association initiated the project in the early 1980s to address a competitive threat to its own textile manufactures from imported textiles in low labour cost countries. During the project lead times in the manufacturing process were halved; the U.S. industry became more competitive for a time, and imports were lowered as a result.\nThe QR initiative was viewed by many as a protection mechanism for the American textile industry with the aim of improving manufacturing efficiencies.\n\nThe concept of quick response (QR) is now used to support \"fast fashion\", creating new, fresh products while also drawing consumers back to the retail experience for consecutive visits. Quick response also makes it possible for new technologies to increase production and efficiency, typified by the introduction of the complementary concept of Fast Fit. The Spanish mega chain Zara, owned by Inditex, has become the global model for how to decrease the time between design and production. This production short cut enables Zara to manufacture over 30,000 units of product every year to nearly 1,600 stores in 58 countries. New items are delivered twice a week to the stores, reducing the time between initial sale and replenishment. As a result, the shortened time period improves consumer's garment choices and product availability while significantly increasing the number of per customer visits per annum. In the case of Renner, a Brazilian chain, a new mini-collection is released every two months.\n\nMarketing is the key driver of fast fashion. Marketing creates the desire for consumption of new designs as close as possible to the point of creation. This is achieved by promoting fashion consumption as something fast, low price and disposable. The continuous release of new products essentially makes the garments a highly cost effective marketing tool that drives consumer visits, increases brand awareness, and results in higher rates of consumer purchases. Fast fashion companies have also enjoyed higher profit margins in that their markdown percentage is only 15% compared to competitors’ 30% plus. The fast fashion business model is based on reducing the time cycles from production to consumption such that consumers engage in more cycles in any time period. For example, the traditional fashion seasons followed the annual cycle of summer, autumn, winter and spring but in fast fashion cycles have compressed into shorter periods of 4–6 weeks and in some cases less than this. Marketers have thus created more buying seasons in the same time-space. Two approaches are currently being used by companies as market strategies; the difference is the amount of financial capital spent on advertisements. While some companies invest in advertising, fast fashion mega firm Primark operates with no advertising. Primark instead invests in store layout, shopfit and visual merchandising to create an instant hook. The instant hook creates an enjoyable shopping experience, resulting in the continuous return of customers. Research shows that seventy five percent of consumer's decisions are made in front of the fixture within three seconds. The alternative spending of Primark also \"allows the retailer to pass the benefits of a cost saving back to the consumer and maintain the company's price structure of producing garments at a lower cost\".\n\nThe consumer in the fast fashion market thrives on constant change and the frequent availability of new products. Fast fashion is considered to be a \"supermarket\" segment within the larger sense of the fashion market. This term refers to fast fashion's nature to \"race to make apparel an even smarter and quicker cash generator\". Three crucial differentiating model factors exist within fast fashion consumption: market timing, cost, and the buying cycle. Timing's objective is to create the shortest production time possible. The quick turnover has increased the demand for the number of seasons presented in the stores. This demand also increases shipping and restocking time periods.\nCost is still the consumer's primary buying decision. Costs are largely reduced by taking advantage of lower prices in markets in developing countries. In 2004 developing countries accounted for nearly seventy five percent of all clothing exports and the removal of several import quotas has allowed companies to take advantage of the even lower cost of resources.\nThe buying cycle is the final factor that affects the consumer. Traditionally, fashion buying cycles are based around long term forecasts that occur one year to six months before the season. Yet, in the fast fashion market the quick response philosophy can result in higher forecast accuracy because the time period is significantly shortened. A higher sell-through for the goods produced is also a result of the shortened production period.\n\nSupply chains are central to the creation of fast fashion. Supply chain systems are designed to add value and reduce cost in the process of moving goods from design concept to retail stores and finally through to consumption. Efficient supply chains are critical to delivering the retail customer promise of fast fashion. The selection of a merchandising vendor is a key part in the process. Inefficiency primarily occurs when suppliers can't respond quickly enough, and clothing ends up bottlenecked and in back stock. Two kinds of supply chains exist, agile and lean. In an agile supply chain the principal characteristics include the sharing of information and technology. The collaboration results in the reduction in the amount of stock in the megastores. A lean supply chain is characterized as the correct appropriation of the commodity for the product. The combination of the two supply chains is called \"leagile\".\n\nThe companies in the fast fashion market also utilize a range of relationships with the suppliers. The product is first classified as \"core\" or \"fashion\". Suppliers close to the market are used for products that are produced in the middle of a season, meaning trendy, \"fashion\" items. In comparison, long-distance suppliers are utilized for cheap, \"core\" items, sometimes referred to as \"capsule\" clothing, that are used in collections every season and have a stable forecast.\n\nProductive internal relationships within the fast fashion companies are as important as the company's relationships with external suppliers, especially when it comes to the company's buyers. Traditionally with a \"supermarket\" market the buying is divided into multi-functional departments. The buying team uses the bottom-up approach when trend information is involved, meaning the information is only shared with the company's fifteen top suppliers. On the other hand, information about future aims, and strategies of production are shared downward within the buyer hierarchy so the team can consider lower cost production options. The buyers also interact closely with merchandising and design departments of the company because of the buyer's focus on style and color. The buyer must also consult with the overall design team to understand the cohesion between trend forecasting and consumer's wants. The close relationships result in flexibility within the company and an accelerated response speed to the demands of the market.\n\nPublished by University of Manchester, the Working Papers of \"Capturing the Gains, global summit\" brings together an international network of experts from North and South. The Working Paper 14 focuses on a specific feature of buying behaviour in the UK fashion retail industry: the negotiation of a manufacturing price (cut-make-trim, CMT, cost) with suppliers that does not separately itemize labour cost. This practice, tacitly supported by both buyers and suppliers, is examined against the backdrop of ongoing wage defaulting and import price deflation in the global apparel industry. For obvious reasons, the make-up of standard time using Predetermined Time standards (PTS), Predetermined motion time system (PMTS); is highly technical and ‘synthetic’. According to the International Labour Organization (ILO), as of 1992 there were some 200 different PTS systems, offered by consultancies for adoption by manufacturing companies. In apparel manufacture, three PTS (aka PMTS) consultancy firms specializing in methods-time measurement (MTM) appear to be operating in the sector– the US-based Modular Arrangement of Predetermined Time Standards (MODAPTS), the Sri Lankan-based Seweasy and the UK-headquartered GSD (Corporate) Ltd. All three forms of work measurement for arriving at a standard time should normally make provision for relaxation, contingency and special allowances.\n\nAs of 2007, \"Forever 21\", one of the larger fast fashion retailer was involved in several lawsuits over alleged violations of Intellectual Property rights. The lawsuits contended that certain pieces of merchandise at the retailer can effectively be considered knockoffs of designs from Diane von Furstenberg, Anna Sui and Gwen Stefani's Harajuku Lovers line as well as many other well-known designers. Forever 21 has not commented on the state of the litigation but initially said it was \"taking steps to organize itself to prevent intellectual property violations\".\n\nH.R. 5055, or Design Piracy Prohibition Act, was a bill proposed to protect the copyright of fashion designers in the United States. The bill was introduced into the United States House of Representatives on March 30, 2006. Under the bill designers would submit fashion sketches and/or photos to the U.S. Copyright Office within three months of the products’ \"publication\". This publication includes everything from magazine advertisements to the garment's first public runway appearances. The bill as a result, would protect the designs for three years after the initial publication. If infringement of copyright was to occur the infringer would be fined $250,000, or $5 per copy, whichever is a larger lump sum. The bill was suspended after the House of Representatives session concluded in 2006, this resulted in H.R. 5055 being cleared from the agenda.\n\nThe Design Piracy Prohibition Act was reintroduced as H.R. 2033 during the first session of the 110th Congress on April 25, 2007. It had goals similar to H.R. 5055, as the bill proposed to protect certain types of apparel design through copyright protection of fashion design. The bill would grant fashion designs a three-year term of protection, based on registration with the U.S. Copyright Office. The fines of copyright infringement would continue to be $250,000 total or $5 per copied merchandise.\n\nJournalist Elizabeth L. Cline, author of Overdressed: The Shockingly High Cost of Cheap Fashion and one of the earliest critics of fast fashion, notes in her article Where Does Discarded Clothing Go? that Americans are purchasing five times the amount of clothing than they did in 1980. Due to this rise in consumption, developed countries are producing more and more garments each season. The United States imports more than 1 billion garments annually from China alone while the United Kingdom textile consumption surged by 37% from 2001 to 2005. Both of these statistics are contributing factors to the pollution caused by the fast fashion. This continuous purchasing of new merchandise is resulting in more and more textiles being discarded yearly.\n\nThe average American household produces 70 pounds of textile waste every year. When you compare that number to the entire country, there is roughly 10.5 million tons of textile waste being thrown away. For example, the residents of New York City discard around 193,000 tons of clothing and textiles, which equates to 6% of all the city’s garbage. In comparison, the European Union generates a total of 5.8 million tons of textiles each year. While Americans donate or recycle around 15% of their unwanted clothing, these numbers show that a large portion of textiles are ending up in landfills worldwide. As a whole, the textile industry occupies roughly 5% of all landfill space. The clothing that is discarded into landfills is often made from synthetic or inorganic materials which prevents these textiles from being able to degrade properly. Landfill waste is not the only environmental concern that the fast fashion industry creates.\n\nThroughout all stages of textile production, the aquatic, terrestrial, and atmospheric ecosystems experience lasting environmental harm. One of these harmful effects is the release of greenhouse gases into the air, thus polluting these various ecosystems. A contributing factor to the atmospheric pollution derives from the byproduct of both global transportation and the utilization of heavy machinery, originating from carbon dioxide emission. Along with the release of hazardous gases, various pesticides and dyes are consistently being released into the aquatic environment in each community the fashion sector operates in. The growing demand for quick fashion continuously adds effluent release from the textile factories, containing both dyes and caustic solutions. As stated, fast fashion has caused a rise in environmental damage over the years.\n\nAs a whole, the fast fashion sector of the fashion industry is polluting the planet at a continuous rate. Due to the amount of pollution and waste caused by the fashion industry, advances in the realm of sustainability have been made possible. For-profit groups, like Viletex, and retailers, such as H&M, are working to decrease the industry’s environmental footprint. Both companies have created programs that encourage recycling from the general public. These programs provide consumers with bins that allow them to dispose of their unwanted garments that will ultimately be transformed into insulation, carpet padding, as well as being used to produce other garments.\n\nWhile recycling is one way that the fashion industry is striving to change the environment, new technologies in fashion also present great potential in environmental turn around. These technologies offer new methods of using dyes, producing fibers, and reducing the use of natural resources. To decrease the consumption of traditional textiles, Anke Domaske has produced \"QMilch,\" an eco-milk fiber, Virus has produced high-tech sportswear from recycled coffee beans, and Suzanne Lee has created vegetable leather from fermented tea. Following new fiber types, many companies have created various ways to reduce the amount of dyes emitted into the world’s waterways as well as the level of water consumption. For example, AirDye saves between 7 and 75 gallons of water per pound of textiles produced while digital printing reduces water usage by 95 percent.\n\nWhile these methods have yet to fully hit the fast fashion sector, they offer alternatives that have the potential to positively influence the industry as a whole. The fast fashion sector thrives on a business model that pushes the environmental boundaries but with the advancements being made, the damage the industry causes can be better addressed. Through the understanding of the multifaceted sides of fashion’s environmental impact, the negative effects can begin to turn around.\n\nThe business model of fast fashion is based on consumers’ desire for new clothing to wear. In order to fulfill consumer’s demand, fast fashion brands provide affordable prices and a wide range of clothing that reflects the latest trends. This ends up persuading consumers to buy more items which leads to the issue of overconsumption.\nPlanned obsolescence plays a key role in overconsumption. Based on the study of planned obsolescence in the Economist, Fashion is deeply committed to built-in obsolescence. Last year's skirts; for example, are designed to be replaced by this year's new models. In this case, fashion goods are purchased even when the old ones are still wearable. The quick response model and new supply chain practices of fast fashion even accelerate the speed of it. In recent years, the fashion cycle has steadily decreased as fast fashion retailers sell clothing that is expected to be disposed of after being worn only a few times. This dramatically shortens the consumers’ buying cycle. The quick changing stocks and low price of fashion goods encourage consumers to visit the store and make purchases more frequently. As a result, excessive stock and untrendy clothes tends to end up in landfills.\n\nA recent article about fast fashion in Huffington Post pointed out that in order to make the fast moving trend affordable, fast-fashion merchandise is typically priced much lower than the competition, operating on a business model of low quality and high volume. Low quality goods make overconsumption more severe since those products have a shorter life span and would need to be replaced much more often. Furthermore, as both industry and consumers continue to embrace fast fashion, the volume of goods to be disposed of or recycled has increased substantially. However, most fast-fashion goods do not have the inherent quality to be considered as collectables for vintage or historic collections. The low quality goods can only end up as waste, hardly to be recycled. These cycles of providing affordable price to trigger the sales, and the low quality comes with it that makes products last shorter are making consumers unconsciously buying more. Not only does it drive sales numbers, but also the amount of waste that comes with it.\n\nFast fashion brings considerable consumption that prospers the fashion industry. Its unique business model and low prices enables the public to purchase fashionable items even during times of the economic recession. However, it has brought along the problem of overconsumption, whereby countless amounts of waste ends up in landfills. Moreover, hidden costs of landfills also include waste, pollution, energy and natural resources exhaustion.\n\nIn contrast to modern overconsumption, fast fashion traces its roots to World War II austerity, where high design was merged with utilitarian materials.\n\nBesides the fast fashion industry's flawed business model which has caused detrimental impacts to the environment and natural resources, it has also deeply affected the people that work in its supply chain. A sweatshop is a factory where manual workers are employed for their hard labor under highly poor working conditions with severe health and safety risks, at extremely low wages, including child labor. The fashion industry is known as the most labor dependent industry, as one in every six person works in acquiring raw materials and manufacturing clothing. With an annual revenue of 19.8 billion dollars last year, H&M - a fast-fashion conglomerate, is the largest producer of clothing in under-developed countries such as Bangladesh and Cambodia and is incapable of paying their workers with fair wages. Bangladesh – a country known for its cheap labor, is home to four million garment production workers in over 5000 factories, out of which 85% are women. These women are forced to work in unsafe and poor working conditions while receiving a minimum wage of less than USD3, being unable to provide themselves with a livelihood. The only justification for this is the need to achieve unfathomably low costs in order to sell at low prices, which in turn leads to mass impoverishment.\n\nThe Rana Plaza was a garment factory in Bangladesh that collapsed in 2013, killing over a thousand workers and being recorded as the deadliest garment-factory incident in history. The five-story building collapsed due to a structural failure and although the workers noticed cracks appearing on the walls and it was declared as an unsafe environment to work in, employees were still forced to come to work the next day. Garment factory owners do not abide by health and safety regulations due to the fear of disrupting production and losing profits.\n\nAlthough fast-fashion companies have outlined fundamental requirements such as fair living wage strategies for its suppliers to comply with, it is quite difficult to trace these policies in a country that is corrupt from its very core. Nonetheless, factory owners should abide by the code of conduct instead of mistreating workers with physical abuse and risking to lose valuable business partnerships. After the Rana Plaza incident in 2016, brands have had greater leverage and are able to work together to co-fund investments to ensure that effective health and safety precautions are taken.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5165315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5165315", "title": "Ferdo Šišić", "text": "Ferdo Šišić\n\nFerdo Šišić (9 March 1869 – 1 January 1940) was a Croatian historian, the founding figure of the Croatian historiography of the 20th century. He made his most important contributions in the area of the Croatian early Middle Ages.\n\nFerdo was born in Vinkovci. After graduating from the comprehensive school in Zagreb in 1888, he studied at the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Zagreb, earning a \"Teacher's Candidate\" diploma in the summer of 1892. Natko Nodilo, Đuro Pilar, Franjo Marković and Armin Pavić were among his teachers. Šišić continued his studies in Vienna, where he met individuals who informed his vocation, including Vatroslav Jagić. Šišić returned to Zagreb after the 6th semester and attended the lectures of Tadija Smičiklas and Tomislav Maretić. Between 1892 and 1902 he mostly worked as a teacher. He taught in Gospić from 1892 to 1893, then in Zagreb to 1894 and finally in Osijek until 1902. \n\nIn 1900 he obtained his Ph.D. at the Zagreb University with the work \"\"Zadar and Venice from 1159 to 1247\". In 1902 he earned his habilitation with the work \"Miha Madijev de Barbezanis\"\" and became the private assistant professor for Croatian history from the 12th to the 14th century (i.e. until 1409). He was suspended in 1908, but rehired in 1909 as a casual university professor. In 1910 he became a member of the Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts. He worked continually a university professor until the summer 1937/38 semester and went into volunteer early retirement in 1939. He died on 1 January 1940 in Zagreb.\n\nAs a scientist, Šišić was primarily interested in the history of the early and high Middle Ages in Croatia. His greatest work is \"History of the Croats Under Home Rule\", while his most popular work is \"Overview of the History of the Croatian People\", which was edited by Jaroslav Šidak and widely used for almost five decades. \"History of the Croats under the Arpad Kings (1102-1301)\", an unfinished compilation published after his death, is generally considered below the level of his \"magnum opus\". \n\nOther notable Šišić's books are the important monograph on Hrvoje Vukčić Hrvatinić and a critical edition of \"Dukljanin's Chronicles\". His compilations of Croatian history of later periods (from the 15th to the 19th century) are not as valuable as his epochal history of the Croatian early Middle Ages.\n\nThe work of Ferdo Šišić is characterized by a systematic, objective and informed approach. His opus, however, is the high point of \"genetic history\" or the archivist's approach, which patiently weaves the tapestry of the chosen period without engaging in speculations that are sometimes necessary to fill the gaps left open by archive materials. Also, the Croatian historiography came to be dominated by the multidisciplinary approach combining demographics, culturology, history of economy and art only in the second half of the 20th century, putting Šišić in the position of a classic who laid inestimable foundations but cannot be the role model for contemporary historical science.\n\nŠišić was politically engaged as a member of the Croato-Serbian Coalition from 1908 to 1917. His biographers sometimes talk about Šišić's political inconstancy, material ambitions, weak character and opportunism. But Šišić is neither interesting nor relevant as a politician. His lasting contribution to the Croatian culture and science is his gigantic and painstaking opus in historiography, including more than 450 works. \n\nAnother relevant aspect of his work is the personal library he built during his life, containing more than 20,000 titles (books, articles, historiography collections). When he died, those books became the most valuable part of the collection of the Croatian State Archives in Zagreb. As an expert archivist, Šišić diligently collected materials from numerous collections in Croatia, but also in Hungary, Austria, Britain, France, Italy, Belgium, Czech Republic and Slovakia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32038591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32038591", "title": "Francis Dvornik", "text": "Francis Dvornik\n\nFrancis Dvornik (Chomýž, 14 August 1893 – Chomýž, 4 November 1975), in Czech František Dvorník, was a priest and academic, and one of the leading twentieth-century experts on Slavic and Byzantine history, and on relations between the churches of Rome and Constantinople.\n\nDvornik taught at Charles University in Prague, the Collège de France, and Harvard University.\n\nArguably Dvornik's greatest contribution to research lay in rehabilitation, from a Catholic standpoint, of the Byzantine patriarch and writer, Photius.\n\nIn 1956 Harvard University Press published a collection of \"Essays Dedicated to F. Dvornik on the Occasion of his 60th Birthday\" (Harvard Slavic studies no. 2).\n\nIn Italian : \"Gli Slavi nella storia e nella civiltà europea\", 2v., Bari,edizioni Dedalo, 1968.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26151975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26151975", "title": "Frank Moya Pons", "text": "Frank Moya Pons\n\nDr. Rafael Francisco “Frank” Moya Pons is one of the leading contemporary historians of the Dominican Republic. He has published many important books in the history and cultural heritage of the country. One of his best-known works is \"Manual de historia dominicana\" (1992), now in its tenth edition which is a staple work of Dominican historiography. In 1985 he authored the book \"Between Slavery and Free Labor: The Spanish\", in 1998 \"The Dominican Republic: A National History\"\nand in 2007 \" History of the Caribbean: plantations, trade, and war in the Atlantic world\". He has also conducted much work into slavery in the Dominican Republic and Caribbean.\n\nMoya has a Degree in 'Philosophy' at the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo (UASD); has a Master in both 'Latin American History' and 'European History' at Georgetown University. Moya has a Ph.D. in 'Latin American History', 'Economic Development' and 'Quantitative Methods' from Columbia University.\n\nMoya Pons has taught history at the Pontifical Catholic University Mother and Teacher in the Dominican Republic, in Columbia and Florida universities in the USA, and has been Research Professor at City College.\n\nMoya was President of the Dominican Academy of History. In 2013, he published \"Bibliografía de la Historia Dominicana 1730-2010\".\n"}
{"id": "728603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=728603", "title": "Fuero", "text": "Fuero\n\nFuero (), Fur (), Foro () or Foru () is a Spanish legal term and concept.\nThe word comes from Latin \"forum\", an open space used as market, tribunal and meeting place. The same Latin root is the origin of the French terms for and foire, and the Portuguese terms foro and foral; all of these words have related, but somewhat different, meanings.\n\nThe Spanish term fuero has a wide range of meanings, depending upon its context. It has meant a compilation of laws, especially a local or regional one; a set of laws specific to an identified class or estate (for example fuero militar, comparable to a military code of justice or fuero eclesiástico specific to the Roman Catholic Church). In many of these senses, its equivalent in the medieval England would be the custumal.\n\nIn the 20th century, Francisco Franco's regime used the term \"fueros\" for several of the fundamental laws. The term implied these were not constitutions subject to debate and change by a sovereign people, but orders from the only legitimate source of authority, as in feudal times.\n\nFuero dates back to the feudal era: the lord could concede or acknowledge a \"fuero\" to certain groups or communities, most notably the Roman Catholic Church, the military, and certain regions that fell under the same monarchy as Castile or, later, Spain, but were not fully integrated into those countries.\n\nThe relations among \"fueros\", other bodies of law (including the role of precedent), and sovereignty is a contentious one that influences government and law in the present day. The king of León, Alfonso V, decreed the Fuero de León (1017), considered the earliest laws governing territorial and local life, as it applied to the entire kingdom, with certain provisions for the city of León. The various Basque provinces also generally regarded their \"fueros\" also known as jauntxos as tantamount to a municipal constitution. This view was accepted by some others, including President of the United States John Adams. He cited the Biscayan \"fueros\" as a precedent for the United States Constitution. (Adams, \"A defense…\", 1786) This view regards \"fueros\" as granting or acknowledging rights. In the contrasting view, \"fueros\" were privileges granted by a monarch. In the letter Adams also commented on the substantial independence of the hereditary Basque Jauntxo families as the origin for their privileges.\n\nIn practice, distinct \"fueros\" for specific classes, estates, towns, or regions usually arose out of feudal power politics. Some historians believe monarchs were forced to concede some traditions in exchange for the general acknowledgment of his or her authority, that monarchs granted fueros to reward loyal subjection, or (especially in the case of towns or regions) the monarch simply acknowledged distinct legal traditions.\n\nIn medieval Castilian law, the king could assign privileges to certain groups. The classic example of such a privileged group was the Roman Catholic Church: the clergy did not pay taxes to the state, enjoyed the income via tithes of local landholding, and were not subject to the civil courts. Church-operated ecclesiastical courts tried churchmen for criminal offenses. Another example was the powerful Mesta organization, composed of wealthy sheepherders, who were granted vast grazing rights in Andalusia after that land was \"reconquered\" by Spanish Christians from the Muslims (\"see Reconquista\"). Lyle N. McAlister writes in \"Spain and Portugal in the New World\" that the Mesta's \"fuero\" helped impede the economic development of southern Spain. This resulted in a lack of opportunity, and Spaniards emigrated to the New World to escape these constraints.\n\nDuring the Reconquista, the feudal lords granted \"fueros\" to some \"villas\" and cities, to encourage the colonization of the frontier and of commercial routes. These laws regulated the governance and the penal, process and civil aspects of the places. Often the \"fueros\" already codified for one place were granted to another, with small changes, instead of crafting a new redaction from scratch.\n\nDate<br>\n1125<br>\n1127–47<br>\n1129<br>\n1133<br>\n1145<br>\n1147<br>\n1152<br>\n\"c\". 1154<br>\n1157<br>\n1169<br>\n1173<br>\n1173<br>\n1175<br>\n1181<br>\n1198<br>\n1198\n\nGrantor(s)<br>\nGutierre Fernández de Castro and Toda Díaz<br>\nPedro González de Lara and Eva<br>\nEstefanía Sánchez<br>\nAlfonso VII<br>\nÍñigo Jiménez<br>\nOsorio Martínez and Teresa Fernández<br>\nMaría Fernández<br>\nManrique Pérez de Lara<br>\nMartín and Elvira Pérez<br>\nSancha Ponce<br>\nPonce de Minerva<br>\nGonzalo, Constanza and Jimena Osorio<br>\nPedro Pérez and Fernando Cídez<br>\nErmengol VII of Urgell<br>\nGutierre Díaz<br>\nFroila Ramírez and Sancha\n\nGrantee(s)<br>\nSan Cebrián de Campos<br>\nTardajos<br>\nVillarmildo<br>\nGuadalajara<br>\nYanguas<br>\nVillalonso and Benafarces<br>\nCastrocalbón<br>\nMolina<br>\nPozuelo de la Orden<br>\nVillarratel<br>\nAzaña<br>\nVillalobos<br>\nAlmaraz de Duero<br>\nBarruecopardo<br>\nVillavaruz de Ríoseco<br>\nCifuentes de Rueda\n\nIn contemporary Spanish usage, the word \"fueros\" most often refers to the historic and contemporary fueros or charters of certain regions, especially of the Basque regions. The equivalent for French usage is \"fors\", applying to the northern regions of the Pyrenees.\n\nThe whole central and western Pyrenean region was inhabited by the Basques in the early Middle Ages within the Duchy of Vasconia. The Basques and the Pyrenean peoples—as Romance language replaced Basque in many areas by the turn of the first millennium—governed themselves by a native a set of rules, different from Roman and Gothic law but with an ever-increasing imprint of them. Typically their laws, arising from regional traditions and practices, were kept and transmitted orally. Because of this oral tradition, the Basque-language regions preserved their specific laws longer than did those Pyrenean regions that adopted Romance languages. For example, Navarrese law developed along less feudal lines than those of surrounding realms. The Fors de Bearn are another example of Pyrenean law.\n\nTwo sayings address this legal idiosyncrasy: \"en Navarra hubo antes leyes que reyes,\" and \"en Aragón antes que rey hubo ley,\" both meaning that law developed and existed before the kings. The force of these principles required monarchs to accommodate to the laws. This situation sometimes strained relations between the monarch and the kingdom, especially if the monarchs were alien to native laws.\n\nIn 1234 when the first foreign king, the French Theobald I of Champagne arrived in the area, he did not know Navarrese common law. He appointed a commission to write the laws; this was the first written \"fuero\". The accession of French lineages to the throne of Navarre brought a relationship between the king and the kingdom that was alien to the Basques. The resulting disagreements were a major factor in the 13th-century uprisings and clashes between different factions and communities, e.g. the borough wars of Pamplona. The loyalty of the Basques (the \"Navarri\") to the king was conditioned on his upholding the traditions and customs of the kingdom, which were based on oral laws.\n\nFerdinand II of Aragon conquered and annexed Navarre between 1512 and 1528 (up to the Pyrenees). In order to gain Navarrese loyalty, the Spanish Crown represented by the Aragonese Fernando upheld the kingdom's specific laws (\"fueros\") allowing the region to continue to function under its historic laws, while Lower Navarre remained independent, but increasingly tied to France, a process completed after King Henry III of Navarre and IV of France died. Louis XIII of France failed to respect his father's will to keep Navarre and France separate. All specific relevant legal provisions and institutions (Parliament, Courts of Justice, etc.) were devalued in 1620–1624, and critical powers transferred to the French Crown.\n\nSince the high Middle Ages, many Basques had been born into the \"hidalgo nobility\". The Basques had no uniform legal corpus of laws, which varied between valleys and seigneuries. Early on (14th century) all Gipuzkoans were granted noble status, several Navarrese valleys (Salazar, Roncal, Baztan, etc.) followed suit, and Biscaynes saw their universal nobility confirmed in 1525. Álava's distribution of nobility was patchy but less widespread, since the Basque specific nobility only took hold in northern areas (Ayala, etc.). Biscaynes, as nobles, were theoretically excluded from torture and from the need to serve in the Spanish army, unless called for the defence of their own territory (\"Don Quixote\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s character, Sancho Panza, remarked humorously that writing and reading and being \"Biscayne\" was enough to be secretary to the emperor). Other Basque regions had similar provisions.\n\nThe Castilian kings took an oath to comply with the Basque laws in the different provinces of Álava, Biscay and Gipuzkoa. These provinces and Navarre kept their self-governing bodies and their own parliaments, i.e. the \"diputaciones\" and the territorial councils/Parliament of Navarre. However, the prevailing Castilian rule prioritized the king's will. In addition, the ever more centralizing absolutism, especially after the accession to the throne of the Bourbons, increasingly devalued the laws specific to regions and realms—Basque provinces and the kingdoms of Navarre and Aragon—sparking uprisings (Matalaz's uprising in Soule 1660, regular \"Matxinada\" revolts in the 17-18th centuries) and mounting tensions between the territorial governments and the Spanish central government of Charles III and Charles IV, to the point of considering the Parliament of Navarre dangerous to the royal authority and condemning \"its spirit of independence and liberties.\"\n\nDespite vowing loyalty to the crown, the Pyrenean Aragonese and Catalans kept their separate specific laws too, the \"King of the Spains\" represented a crown tying together different realms and peoples, as claimed by the Navarrese \"diputación\", as well as the Parliament of Navarre's last trustee. The Aragonese \"fueros\" were an obstacle for Philip II when his former secretary Antonio Pérez escaped the death penalty by fleeing to Aragon. The king's only means to enforce the sentence was the Spanish Inquisition, the only cross-kingdom tribunal of his domains. There were frequent conflicts of jurisdiction between the Spanish Inquisition and regional civil authorities and bishops. Pérez escaped to France, but Philip's army invaded Aragon and executed its authorities.\n\nIn 1714 the Catalan and Aragonese specific laws and self-government were violently suppressed. The Aragonese count of Robres, one strongly opposing the abolition, put it down to Castilian centralism, stating that the royal prime minister, the Count-Duke of Olivares, had at last a free rein \"for the kings of Spain to be independent of all laws save those of their own conscience.\"\n\nThe Basques managed to retain their specific status for a few years after 1714, as they had supported the claimant who became Philip V of Spain, a king hailing from the lineage of Henry III of Navarre. However, they could not escape the king's attempts (using military force) at centralization (1719–1723). In the run-up to the Napoleonic Wars, the relations between the absolutist Spanish Crown and the Basque governing institutions were at breaking point. By the beginning of the War of the Pyrenees, Manuel Godoy took office as Prime Minister in Spain, and went on to take a tough approach on the Basque self-government and specific laws. Both fear and anger spread among the Basques at his uncompromising stance.\n\nThe 1789 Revolution brought the rise of the Jacobin nation state—also referred to in a Spanish context as \"unitarism\", unrelated to the religious view of similar name. Whereas the French Ancien Régime recognized the regional specific laws, the new order did not allow for such autonomy. The jigsaw puzzle of fiefs was divided into \"départements\", based on administrative and ideological concerns, not tradition. In the French Basque Country, what little remained of self-government was suppressed in 1790 during the French Revolution and the new administrative arrangement, and was followed by the interruption of the customary cross-border trade between the Basque districts (holding minor internal customs or duties), the mass deportation to the Landes of thousands of residents in the bordering villages of Labourd—Sara, Itxassou, Ascain—, including the imposition (fleetingly) of alien names to villages and towns—period of the National Convention and War of the Pyrenees (1793–1795).\n\nSome Basques saw a way forward in the 1808 Bayonne Statute and Dominique-Joseph Garat's project, initially approved by Napoleon, to create a separate Basque state, but the French invasive attitude on the ground and the deadlock of the self-government project led the Basques to find help elsewhere, i.e. local liberal or moderate commanders and public figures supportive of the \"fueros\", or the conservative Ferdinand VII. The 1812 Spanish Constitution of Cadiz received no Basque input, ignored the Basque self-government, and was accepted begrudgingly by the Basques, overwhelmed by war events. For example, the 1812 Constitution was signed by Gipuzkoan representatives to a general Castaños wielding menacingly a sword, and tellingly the San Sebastián council representatives took an oath to the 1812 Constitution with the smell of smoke still wafting and surrounded by rubble.\n\nDuring the two centuries since the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Era, the level of autonomy for the Basque regions within Spain has varied. The cry for \"fueros\" (meaning regional autonomy) was one of the demands of the Carlists of the 19th century, hence the strong support for Carlism from the Basque Country and (especially in the First Carlist War) in Catalonia and Aragón. The Carlist effort to restore an absolute monarchy was sustained militarily mainly by those whom the \"fueros\" had protected from the full weight of absolutism, due to their readiness to respect region and kingdom specific legal systems and institutions. The defeat of the Carlists in three successive wars resulted in continuing erosion of traditional Basque privileges.\n\nThe Carlist land-based small nobility (\"jauntxos\") lost power to the new bourgeoisie, who welcomed the extension of Spanish customs borders from the Ebro to the Pyrenees. The new borders protected the fledging Basque industry from foreign competition and opened the Spanish market, but lost opportunities abroad since customs were imposed on the Pyrenees and the coast.\n\nAfter the First Carlist War, the new class of Navarre negotiated separately from the rest of Basque districts the \"Ley Paccionada\" (or \"Compromise Act\") in Navarre (1841), which granted some administrative and fiscal prerogatives to the provincial government within Spain. The rest of the Basque districts managed to keep still for another 40 years a small status of self-government, definitely suppressed in 1876. The end of the Third Carlist War saw the Carlists strong in the Basque districts succumb to the Spanish troops led by King Alfonso XII of Spain and their reduced self-government was suppressed and converted into Economic Agreements. Navarre's status was less altered in 1876 than that of Gipuzkoa, Biscay, and Álava, due to the separate agreement signed in 1841 by officials of the Government of Navarre with the Spanish government accepting the transformation of the kingdom into a Spanish province.\n\nDespite capitulation agreements acknowledging specific administrative and economic prerogatives, attempts of the Spanish government to bypass them spread malaise and anger in the Basque districts, ultimately leading to the 1893–94 \"Gamazada\" uprising in Navarre. Sabino Arana bore witness to the popular revolt as a Biscayne envoy to the protests.\n\nThe enthusiasm raised by the popular revolt in Navarre against the breach of war ending agreements made a deep impact on Sabino Arana, who went on to found the Basque Nationalist Party in 1895, based in Biscay but aiming beyond the boundaries of each Basque district, seeking instead a confederation of the Basque districts. Arana, of a Carlist background, rejected the Spanish monarchy and founded Basque nationalism on the basis of Catholicism and \"fueros\" (\"Lagi-Zaŕa\", as he called them in Basque, \"Old Law\").\n\nThe high-water mark of a restoration of Basque autonomy in recent times came under the Second Spanish Republic in the mid twentieth century. An attempt was made at restoring some kind of Basque self-government in the Statute of Estella, initially garnering a majority of the votes, but controversially failing to take off (Pamplona, 1932). Four years later and amid a climate of war, Basque nationalists supported the left-leaning Republic as ardently as they had earlier supported the right-wing Carlists (note that contemporary Carlists supported Francisco Franco). The defeat of the Republic by the forces of Francisco Franco led in turn to a suppression of Basque culture, including banning the public use of the Basque language.\n\nThe Franco regime considered Biscay and Gipuzkoa as \"traitor provinces\" and cancelled their \"fueros\". However, the pro-Franco provinces of Álava and Navarre maintained a degree of autonomy unknown in the rest of Spain, with local telephone companies, provincial limited-bailiwick police forces (\"miñones\" in Alava, and Foral Police in Navarre), road works and some taxes to support local government.\n\nThe post-Franco Spanish Constitution of 1978 acknowledged \"historical rights\" and attempted to compromise in the old conflict between centralism and federalism by establishing a constitutional provision catering to historic Catalan and Basque political demands, and leaving open the possibility of establishing their own autonomous communities. The Spanish Constitution speaks of \"nationalities\" and \"historic territories\", but does not define them. The term \"nationality\" itself was coined for the purpose, and nor Basques neither Catalans are specifically recognized by the Constitution.\n\nAfter the 1981 coup d'état attempt and the ensuing passing of the restrictive LOAPA act, such possibility of autonomy got opened to whatever (reshaped) Spanish region demanded it (such as Castile and León, Valencia, etc.), even to those never struggling to have their separate identity recognized and always considering themselves invariably Spanish. The \"State of Autonomous Communities\" took the shape of administrative districts and was ambiguous as to the actual recognition of separate identities, coming to be known as \"café para todos\", or 'coffee for everyone'.\n\nHowever, the provincial chartered governments (\"Diputación Foral\" / \"Foru Aldundia\") in the Basque districts were restored, getting back significant powers. Other powers held historically by the chartered governments (\"Diputación\") were transferred to the new government of the Basque Country autonomous community. The Basque provinces still perform tax collection in their respective territories, coordinating with the Basque/Navarrese, Spanish, as well as European governments.\n\nToday, the act regulating the powers of the government of Navarre is the \"Amejoramiento del Fuero\" (\"Betterment of the Fuero\"), and the official name of Navarre is \"Comunidad Foral de Navarra\", \"foral\" ('chartered') being the adjectival form for \"fuero\". The reactionary governmental party in Navarre UPN (2013) claimed during its establishment (1979) and at later times the validity and continuity of the institutional framework for Navarre held during Franco's dictatorship (1936–1975), considering the present regional \"statu quo\" an \"improvement\" of its previous status.\n\nWhile \"fueros\" have disappeared from administrative law in Spain, (except for the Basque Country and Navarre), there are remnants of the old laws in family law. When the Civil Code was established in Spain (1888) some parts of it did not run in some regions. In places like Galicia and Catalonia, the marriage contracts and inheritance are still governed by local laws.\nThis has led to peculiar forms of land distribution.\n\nThese laws are not uniform. For example, in Biscay, different rules regulate inheritance in the \"villas\", than in the country towns (\"tierra llana\"). Modern jurists try to modernize the foral family laws while keeping with their spirit.\n\nDuring the colonial era in Spanish America, the Spanish Empire extended \"fueros\" to the clergy, the \"fuero eclesiástico\". \nThe crown attempted to curtail the \"fuero eclesiástico\", which hit the lower secular (diocesan) clergy especially hard, since it was a privilege that separated them legally from their plebeian parishioners. The curtailment of the \"fuero\" has been seen as a reason that so many clerics participated in the insurgency for independence in Mexico, including insurgency leaders Fr. Miguel Hidalgo and Fr. José María Morelos. Removal of the \"fuero\" was seen as yet another act of the crown that alienated the Mexican population, including American-born Spaniards.\n\nIn the eighteenth century, when Spain established a standing military in key areas of its overseas territory, privileges were extended to the military, the \"fuero militar\", which had an impact on the colonial legal system and society. The \"fuero militar\" was the first time that privileges extended to plebeians, which has been argued was a cause of debasing justice. Indigenous men were excluded from the military, and inter-ethnic conflicts occurred. The \"fuero militar\" presented some contradictions in colonial rule.\n\nIn post-independence Mexico, formerly New Spain, \"fueros\" continued to be recognized by the Mexican state until the mid-nineteenth century. As Mexican liberals gained greater power, they sought to implement the liberal ideal of equality before the law by eliminating special privileges of the clerics and the military. The Liberal Reform and the liberal Constitution of 1857's abolition of those \"fueros\" mobilized Mexico's conservatives, which fought a civil war, rallied allies to their cause with the slogan \"religión y fueros\" (\"religion and privileges\").\n\nFor post-independence Chile, the \"fuero militar\" also was an issue concerning the rights and privileges of citizenship.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36244408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36244408", "title": "Haotian Pagoda", "text": "Haotian Pagoda\n\nHaotian Pagoda () or Liangxiang Pagoda () is an octagonal brick pagoda situated in Haotian park in the Fangshan District of Beijing. It has 5 octahedral shaped hollow tiers and is 36m high. Originally constructed during Sui dynasty, the pagoda has been rebuilt a few times in the last few centuries. The brick tower standing today is built during the Liao dynasty (907–1125). In 1984 and 1997, the Beijing Municipal Administration of cultural Heritage donated a total of over 16 million Chinese yuan for restoration works. Haotian park is closed for renovations of the pagoda.\n\nHaotian is the only hollow Buddhist pagoda standing in Beijing. Each of the 5 tiers has 4 doors (辟券门 ), facing the north, south, east and west. Zhiling windows (直棂窗 ) are present in the north-east, north-west, south-east and south-west directions. Originally, there were 4 buddha sculptures on each floor, but most of them have been damaged by the Eight-Nation Alliance in 1901. A spiral staircase inside the tower can be used to climb to the top, which gave a view of the capital in the 12th century. Each floor also has little orifices (瞭望孔) and might have been used for military purposes in the war between Liao and Song dynasty.\n\nThe Haotian Pagoda is now a part of Haotian public park (昊天公园) that opened in 1998. In addition to the pagoda, Haotian Park features a lake (昊天湖）and several pavilions. The entrance fee is 5 yuan.\n\nHaotian Pagoda is situated in Liangxiang subdistrict of Fangshan District. Public bus can be used to access the pagoda. The bus stop Liangxiangdongguan(良乡东关) of line 646, 832, 834, 835, 951, 971, 993, Fang1(Nei), Fang1(Wai), Fang27 and Fang39 is within walking distance of the entrance of Haotian Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "767082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=767082", "title": "Historical thinking", "text": "Historical thinking\n\nHistorical thinking is a set of critical literacy skills for evaluating and analyzing primary source documents to construct a meaningful account of the past.\n\nSometimes called historical reasoning skills, historical thinking skills are frequently described in contrast to history content such as names, dates, and places. This dichotomous presentation is often misinterpreted as a claim for the superiority of one form of knowing over the other. In fact, the distinction is generally made to underscore the importance of developing thinking skills that can be applied when individuals encounter any history content. Most educators agree that together, history content—or facts about the past—and historical thinking skills enable students to interpret, analyze and use information about past events. In doing so, students will realize the complexity of history with all of the pieces and perspectives that cannot be captured through one narrative. Furthermore, as described by Dr. T. Mills Kelly, characteristics of historical thinking develop sourcing skills, the ability to construct and support an argument, and, \"the ability to present the past in clear ways, whether in writing or in other media, saying what can be said and not saying what cannot.\" \n\nIn the United States, the National Center for History in the Schools at the University of California, Los Angeles has developed history standards that include benchmarks for both content in U.S. and world history and historical thinking skills in grades Kindergarten-4 and 5-12. In both of these age ranges, the Center defines historical thinking in five parts:\n\n\nAs part of the national assessment effort called “The Nation’s Report Card, ” the United States Department of Education has also developed benchmarks for student achievement in U.S. history. Their rubric divides history learning into three basic dimensions: major historical themes, chronological periods, and ways of knowing and thinking about history. The third dimension is further divided into two parts: historical knowledge and perspective, and historical analysis and interpretation.\n\nHistory textbooks draw much attention from history educators and educational researchers. The use of textbooks is nearly universal in history, government, and other social studies courses at the primary, and secondary levels in the U.S.; however, the role of textbooks remains controversial.\n\nArguments against reliance on textbooks have ranged from ideological to pragmatic. Many revisionist educators and historians have distorted and politicized the historical focus of textbooks to include an undue emphasis on issues related to identity politics, such as the history of women and minorities, and presented history as a progressivist struggle. This has been at the expense of a dispassionate and empirical perspective which seeks to identify and analyze casual links and connections between seemingly disparate historical phenomena and illuminate factors involved in historical change and continuity.\n\nOthers object to textbooks on epistemological grounds. Such critics point out that textbooks are written in an omniscient, third-person voice that claims to present “objective facts” are misleading. Such texts encourage students to believe that a particular selection of facts and a single interpretation of those facts is sufficient and correct. In addition, critics contend that textbooks written in this manner are perceived by students as dry and uninteresting and discourage students from reading history, creating motivational barriers to learning.\n\nStill other critics believe that using textbooks undermines the process of learning history by sacrificing thinking skills for content—that textbooks allow teachers to cover vast amounts of names, dates, and places while encouraging students simply to memorize instead of question or analyze. For example, Sam Wineburg argues: \"Traditional history instruction constitutes a form of information, not a form of knowledge. Students might master an agreed-upon narrative, but they lacked any way of evaluating it, of deciding whether it, or any other narrative, was compelling or true” (41). \n\nMost textbook critics concede that textbooks are a necessary tool in history education. Arguments for textbook-based curricula point out that history teachers require resources to support the broad scope of topics covered in the typical history classroom. Well-designed textbooks can provide a foundation on which enterprising educators can build other classroom activities.\n\nModels for historical thinking have been developed to better prepare educators in facilitating historical thinking literacies in students.\n\nPeter Seixas, Professor Emeritus from the University of British Columbia and creator of The Historical Thinking Project, outlines six benchmarks for historical thinking literacies in students. The benchmarks focus on developing the skills necessary for students to create an account of the past using primary source documents and narratives, or what Seixas terms \"traces\" and \"accounts.\" Although these benchmarks provide a model to develop historical literacies, Seixas states that the concepts only can be applied with substantial content learning about the past.\n\nCreated by David Hicks, Peter E. Doolittle, E. Thomas Ewing, the SCIM-C strategy of historical thinking focuses on developing self-regulating practices when engaging in analyzing primary sources. The SCIM-C strategy focuses on the development of historical question to be answered when analyzing primary sources. This strategy provides a scaffold for students as they build more complex investigation and analysis practices identified in the \"capstone stage\". The capstone stage in the SCIM-C model relies on students having analyzed a number of historical documents and having built some historical knowledge about the time, event, or issue being studied.\n\n"}
{"id": "5981803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5981803", "title": "History of ancient Lebanon", "text": "History of ancient Lebanon\n\nThe history of ancient Lebanon traces the course of events in what is now known as Lebanon from the beginning of history to the beginning of Arab rule.\n\nThe earliest known settlements in Lebanon date back to earlier than 5000 BC. In Byblos, which is considered to be the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world, archaeologists have discovered remnants of prehistoric huts with crushed limestone floors, primitive weapons, and burial jars which are evidence of the Neolithic and Chalcolithic fishing communities who lived on the shore of the Mediterranean Sea over 8,000 years ago.\n\nThe area now known as Lebanon first appeared in recorded history around 4000 BC as a group of coastal cities and a heavily forested hinterland. It was inhabited by the Canaanites, a Semitic people, whom the Greeks called \"Phoenicians\" because of the purple (phoinikies) dye they sold. These early inhabitants referred to themselves as \"men of Sidon\" or the like, according to their city of origin, and called the country \"Lebanon.\" Because of the nature of the country and its location, the Phoenicians turned to the sea, where they engaged in trade and navigation.\n\nEach of the coastal cities was an independent kingdom noted for the special activities of its inhabitants. Tyre and Sidon were important maritime and trade centers; Gubla (later known as Byblos and now as Jubayl) and Berytus (present-day Beirut) were trade and religious centers. Gubla was the first Phoenician city to trade actively with Egypt and the pharaohs of the Old Kingdom (2686-2181 BC), exporting cedar, olive oil, and wine, while importing gold and other products from the Nile Valley.\n\nBefore the end of the 17th century BC, Lebanese-Egyptian relations were interrupted when the Hyksos, a nomadic Semitic people, conquered Egypt. After about three decades of Hyksos rule (1600-1570 BC), Ahmose I (1570-1545 BC), Theban prince, launched the Egyptian liberation war. Opposition to the Hyksos increased, reaching a peak during the reign of the pharaoh Thutmose III (1490-1436 BC), who invaded Syria, put an end to Hyksos domination, and incorporated Lebanon into the Egyptian Empire.\n\nToward the end of the 14th century BC, the Egyptian Empire weakened, and Lebanon was able to regain its independence by the beginning of the 12th century BC. The subsequent three centuries were a period of prosperity and freedom from foreign control during which the earlier Phoenician invention of the alphabet facilitated communications and trade. The Phoenicians also excelled not only in producing textiles but also in carving ivory, in working with metal, and above all in making glass. Masters of the art of navigation, they founded colonies wherever they went in the Mediterranean Sea (specifically in Cyprus, Rhodes, Crete, and Carthage) and established trade routes to Europe and western Asia. These colonies and trade routes flourished until the invasion of the coastal areas by the Assyrians.\n\nAssyrian rule (875-608 BE) deprived the Phoenician cities of their independence and prosperity and brought repeated, unsuccessful rebellions. In the middle of the 8th century BC, Tyre and Byblos rebelled, but the Assyrian ruler, Tiglath-Pileser III, subdued the rebels and imposed heavy tributes. Oppression continued unabated, and Tyre rebelled again, this time against Sargon II (722-705 BC), who successfully besieged the city in 721 BC and punished its population. During the 7th century BC, Sidon rebelled and was completely destroyed by Esarhaddon (681-668 BC); its inhabitants were enslaved. Esarhaddon built a new city on Sidon's ruins. By the end of the 7th century BC, the Assyrian Empire, weakened by the successive revolts, had been destroyed by the Median Empire.\n\nAs the Babylonians finally defeated the Assyrians at Carchemish, much of Lebanon was already in their hands, since much of it was seized from the collapsing Assyrian kingdom. In that time two Babylonian kings succeeded the throne, Nabopolassar who focused on ending Assyrian influence in the region, and his son Nebuchadnezzar II whose reign witnessed several regional rebellions, especially in Jerusalem. Revolts in Phoenician cities became more frequent during that period (685-636 BC, Tyre rebelled again and for thirteen years resisted a siege by the troops of Nebuchadnezzar 587-574 BC. After this long siege, the city capitulated; its king was dethroned, and its citizens were enslaved.\n\nThe Babylonian province of Phoenicia and its neighbors passed to Achaemenid rule with the conquest of Babylon by Cyrus in 539/8 BC.\nThe Syro-Phoenician coastal cities remained under Persian rule for the following two centuries.\nThe Phoenician navy supported Persia during the Greco-Persian War (490-49 BC). But when the Phoenicians were overburdened with heavy tributes imposed by the successors of Darius I (521-485 BC), revolts and rebellions resumed in the Lebanese coastal cities.\n\nThe Persian Empire, including the Phoenician province, eventually fell to Alexander the Great, king of Macedonia in 4th century BC.\n\nThe Persian Empire eventually fell to Alexander the Great, king of Macedon. He attacked Asia Minor, defeated the Persian troops in 333 BC, and advanced toward the Lebanese coast. Initially the Phoenician cities made no attempt to resist, and they recognized his suzerainty. However, when Alexander tried to offer a sacrifice to Melqart, Tyre's god, the city resisted. Alexander besieged Tyre in retaliation in early 332 BC. After six months of resistance, the city fell, and its people were sold into slavery. Despite his early death in 323 BC, Alexander's conquest of the eastern Mediterranean Basin left a Greek imprint on the area. The Phoenicians, being a cosmopolitan people amenable to outside influences, adopted aspects of Greek civilization with ease.\n\nAfter Alexander's death, his empire was divided among his Macedonian generals. The eastern part—Phoenicia, Asia Minor, northern Syria, and Mesopotamia fell to Seleucus I, founder of the Seleucid dynasty. The southern part of Syria and Egypt fell to Ptolemy, and the European part, including Macedonia, to Antigonus I. This settlement, however, failed to bring peace because Seleucus I and Ptolemy clashed repeatedly in the course of their ambitious efforts to share in Phoenician prosperity. A final victory of the Seleucids ended a forty-year period of conflict.\n\n The last century of Seleucid rule was marked by disorder and dynastic struggles. These ended in 64 BC, when the Roman general Pompey added Seleucid Syria and Lebanon as a Roman province to the Roman Empire. Economic and intellectual activities flourished in Lebanon during the Pax Romana. The inhabitants of the principal Phoenician cities of Byblos, Sidon, and Tyre were granted Roman citizenship. These cities were centers of the pottery, glass, and purple dye industries; their harbors also served as warehouses for products imported from Syria, Persia, and India. They exported cedar, perfume, jewelry, wine, and fruit to Rome. Economic prosperity led to a revival in construction and urban development; temples and palaces were built throughout the country, as well as paved roads that linked the cities.\n\nUpon the death of Theodosius I in 395 AD, the empire was divided in two: the eastern or Byzantine part with its capital at Constantinople, and the western part with its capital at Rome. Under the Byzantine Empire, intellectual and economic activities in Beirut, Tyre, and Sidon continued to flourish for more than a century. However, in the 6th century a series of earthquakes demolished the temples of Baalbek and destroyed the city of Beirut, leveling its famous law school and killing nearly 30,000 inhabitants. To these natural disasters were added the abuses and corruptions prevailing at that time in the empire. Heavy tributes and religious dissension produced disorder and confusion. Furthermore, the ecumenical councils of the 5th and 6th centuries were unsuccessful in settling religious disagreements. This turbulent period weakened the empire and made it easy prey to the newly converted Muslim Arabs of the Arabian Peninsula.\n\n\"This article is based on public-domain text from the Lebanon Country Study (1987) of the Library of Congress Country Studies project; specifically from Chapter 1: Historical Setting, by Afaf Sabeh McGowen\".\n"}
{"id": "51619022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51619022", "title": "Institute of Archaeologists of Ireland", "text": "Institute of Archaeologists of Ireland\n\nInstitute of Archaeologists of Ireland () is an Irish archaeology organisation based in Dublin, Ireland. Founded in Merrion Square, Dublin in August 2001, the organisation represents archaeologists who are working throughout Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "54643991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54643991", "title": "Ivan Tkalčić", "text": "Ivan Tkalčić\n\nIvan Krstitelj Tkalčić (4 May 1840 – 11 May 1905; \"Ivan Krstitelj\" is the Croatian name for John the Baptist) was a noted Croatian historian and a Catholic priest and prebendary.\n\nTkalčić was born on 4 May 1840 in Zagreb, Kingdom of Croatia, to father Janko from Samobor and mother Bara \"née\" Martinjakova. He was ordained a priest on 7 September 1862, becoming a curate in Sisak. On 10 October 1867, when he became the prebendary of the Zagreb Cathedral, a post he held until his death on 11 May 1905. His first publication was an article in \"Narodne novine\" in 1859. This was followed by many works pertaining history, especially the history of Zagreb and the Croatian church. Tkalčić became a corresponding member of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts (then Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts) in 1875, and a full member in 1882. From then onwards he held the position of the academy's librarian until 1892 and archivist in 1896.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9108386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9108386", "title": "Jenni Calder", "text": "Jenni Calder\n\nJenni Calder (née Daiches) (born 1941) is a Scottish literary historian, and arts establishment figure. She was formerly married to Angus Calder, and is the daughter of David Daiches. She also once ran the Edinburgh Book Festival.\n\nCalder is opposed to Scottish independence.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "43694358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43694358", "title": "Kyethi", "text": "Kyethi\n\nKyethi (Kyethi or Kehsi) is the main town of Kyethi Township, Loilem District, in the Shan State of Burma. The main town is Kesi (Kyethi or Kehsi). Highway 442 passes through Kyethi town.\nKehsi, located by the Nam Heng River, was the capital of Kehsi Mansam, one of the Shan States. It had a population of 618 in 1901.\n"}
{"id": "11163409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11163409", "title": "Latin American social archaeology", "text": "Latin American social archaeology\n\nLatin American Social Archaeology (LASA) is a school of thought developed in Latin America in the 1970s and 1980s, focusing on the application of historical materialism to the interpretation of the archaeological record. It is an orthodox current of Marxism, since it adheres to dialectical materialism.\n\nWithin the LASA, it is possible to distinguish between two main currents. One, and the first, was initiated by the Peruvian archaeologist Luis G. Lumbreras (Perú), who draws most of his inspiration from the work of Vere Gordon Childe, and authored the seminal book \"La Arqueología como Ciencia Social\" ((1974) 1984). Most of his papers, and those of his followers, were published in the journal \"Gaceta Arqueológica Andina\".\n\nThe other main current, inspired by the work of Lumbreras, is composed of those archaeologists who are members of the Oaxtepec Group, among them: Luis F. Bate (Chile), I. Vargas Arenas (Venezuela), Mario Sanoja Obediente (Venezuela), Marcio Veloz Maggiolo (Venezuela), Patricia Fournier. Most of their work was published by the journal \"Boletín de Antropología Americana\", published by the Instituto Panaméricano de Geografía. The whole production of this group on Marxist theory and archaeology was synthesized by Luis F. Bate, in his book \"El proceso de Investigación en Arqueología\" (1998)\n\nIn 1976, Luis G. Lumbreras published a compilation of some papers on Peruvian archaeology plus five capitules deditacted to Marxist Theory, and its potential for archaeological research. The work was heavily influenced by Childe (1954), especially by its unilineal conception of cultural evolution (Childe 1964).\nAfter that work, Lumbreras published a lot of papers in the \"Gaceta Arqueológica Andina\". Most of them republished in the book \"Arqueología y Sociedad\".\n\nComing soon\n\nThe most interesting contribution of the Oaxtepec archaeologist is the system the proposed to understand \"social wholes or totalities\". To the classical distinction between Infrastructure and Superstructure, they added the distinction between Form and Content (Bate 1998).\n\nThey propose that society has three levels of existence: Culture, the Mode of Life and the Socio-economical Formation (SEF). The last is the system os essential contents of the society, i.e. the dialectical link between the forces of production, the relations of productions and some general form of ideology and institutions. The SEF is common to all societies with the same level of development. Culture is the phenomenological singular manifestation of a single society.\n\nThe Mode of Life is an intermediate category thar refers to particularities of the mode of Production, determined by ecological variables. For example, for the Foraging or Hunter-gatherer mode of production, you can define various modes of life according to the classical Forager-Collector dichotomy.\n\nAlso, the three levels have distinctive temporal rhythms. The SEF is the slower of the three, since many changes in the Mode of Life or in Culture could happen before a revolutionary evolution of the mode of production occurs.\n\nThe tricategorial system is a kind of answer to the debates about sociocultural-unilinear social evolutionism vs. multilineal evolutionism.\n\nThe works done under the LASA banner have been the targets of various criticism. The first is that the social archaeologist's work is no different from the works of culture-history (specially the neoevolutionist branch). The other main criticism is that the authors dwell too much in theory and very little on actual empirical work.\n\n"}
{"id": "4392610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4392610", "title": "Life stance", "text": "Life stance\n\nA person's life stance, or lifestance, is their relation with what they accept as being of ultimate importance. It involves the presuppositions and theories upon which such a stance could be made, a belief system, and a commitment to potentially working it out in one's life.\nIt connotes an integrated perspective on reality as a whole and how to assign valuations, thus being a concept similar or equivalent to that of a worldview; with the latter word (derived from the German \"Weltanschauung\") being generally a more common and comprehensive term. Like the term \"worldview\", the term \"life stance\" is intended to be a \"shared\" label encompassing both religious perspectives (for instance: \"a Buddhist life stance\" or \"a Christian life stance\" or \"a Pagan life stance\"), as well as non-religious spiritual or philosophical alternatives (for instance: \"a humanist life stance\" or \"a personist life stance\" or \"a Deep Ecology life stance\"), without discrimination in favour of any.\n\nHumanists interested in educational matters apparently coined the neologism \"life stance\" in the mid-1970s; Harry Stopes-Roe of the Rationalist Press Association and British Humanist Association developed the concept originally in that context.\nThe term originally arose in the context of debates over the controversial content of the City of Birmingham's \"Agreed Syllabus for Religious Education\", 1975. That document referred to \"non-religious stances for living\". According to Barnes:\n\nIn the late 1980s Harry Stopes-Roe initiated a successful campaign for the adoption of the term by the International Humanist and Ethical Union and by other organisations (see also his comments quoted below on its provenance). \nIt was not an uncontroversial proposal among humanists.\n\nThe term was introduced as part of an attempt to establish a clear identity for Humanism, in order to gain recognition and respect.\n\nAccording to Stopes-Roe:\n\nHarry Stopes-Roe, who fought for the term's acceptance by the Humanist movement, defined \"life stance\" as follows:\n\nThe British Humanist Association, drawing in part on jurisprudence related to the term \"religion or belief\" in the European Convention on Human Rights, has put forward a more analytical definition:\n\nA life stance may be distinguished from general support of a cause by capitalization of the first letter. For instance, the life stance of Humanism is distinguished from humanism generally. Many life stances may contain humanism to a greater or lesser extent as instrumental value in order to fulfill their own chosen intrinsic value(s). However, Humanism regards it as having intrinsic value.\n\nNot all life stances use this orthography.\n\nThe term was intended to be a \"shared\" label encompassing both religions and alternatives to religion, without discrimination in favour of either.\n\nA life stance differs from a worldview or a belief system in that the term \"life stance\" emphasizes a focus on what is of ultimate importance. Life stance differs from eupraxsophy in that the latter typically implies a strictly non-theistic outlook, whereas a life stance can be theistic or non-theistic, supernaturalistic or naturalistic.\n\nA \"religion\" is a set of beliefs and practices, often centered upon specific supernatural and/or moral claims about reality, the cosmos, and human nature, and often codified as prayer, ritual, and law. Religion also encompasses ancestral or cultural traditions, writings, history, and mythology, as well as personal faith and mystic experience. The term \"religion\" refers to both the personal practices related to communal faith and to group rituals and communication stemming from shared conviction.\n\nIn the frame of European religious thought, religions present a common quality, the \"hallmark of patriarchal religious thought\": the division of the world in two comprehensive domains, one sacred, the other profane. Religion is often described as a communal system for the coherence of belief focusing on a system of thought, unseen being, person, or object, that is considered to be supernatural, sacred, divine, or of the highest truth. \nMoral codes, practices, values, institutions, tradition, philosophy, rituals, and scriptures are often traditionally associated with the core belief. Religion is also often described as a \"way of life\".\n\nAlternatives to religion include life stances based on atheism, agnosticism, deism, skepticism, freethought, pantheism, secular humanism, spiritual but not religious (SBNR), Objectivism, existentialism, modern incarnations of Hellenistic philosophies, or general secularism.\n\nHumanism is an example of life stance which may be considered to be religious (usually in a non-theistic, ethical sense) or non-religious or anti-religious. One of Stopes-Roe's reasons for advocating the adoption of \"life stance\" as a label for the Humanist movement, was his hope that it would end the arguments between the different sides as to how best to characterise their position (note that Stopes-Roe uses the term \"god-religious\" to distinguish theists from non-theists in what follows):\n\nBill Cooke comments:\n\nDifferent life stances differ in what they hold as intrinsic values and purposes in life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42081671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42081671", "title": "List of archives in Belgium", "text": "List of archives in Belgium\n\nThis is list of archives in Belgium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39647732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39647732", "title": "Lists of years by topic", "text": "Lists of years by topic\n\nThis is a list of lists of years by topic.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "620845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620845", "title": "Lord Chamberlain's Men", "text": "Lord Chamberlain's Men\n\nThe Lord Chamberlain's Men was a company of actors, or a \"playing company\" as it would have been known, for which Shakespeare wrote for most of his career. Richard Burbage played most of the lead roles, including Hamlet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth while Shakespeare himself performed some secondary roles. Formed at the end of a period of flux in the theatrical world of London, it had become, by 1603, one of the two leading companies of the city and was subsequently patronized by James I.\n\nIt was founded during the reign of Elizabeth I of England in 1594 under the patronage of Henry Carey, 1st Baron Hunsdon, then the Lord Chamberlain, who was in charge of court entertainments. After Carey's death on 23 July 1596, the company came under the patronage of his son, George Carey, 2nd Baron Hunsdon, for whom it was briefly known as Lord Hunsdon's Men. When George Carey in turn became Lord Chamberlain on 17 March 1597, it reverted to its previous name. The company became the King's Men in 1603 when King James ascended the throne and became the company's patron. The company held exclusive rights to perform Shakespeare's plays.\n\nFrom 1594 the players performed at The Theatre, in Shoreditch. Problems with the landlord caused the company to move to the nearby Curtain Theatre in 1597. On the night of 29 December 1598, The Theatre was dismantled by the Burbage brothers, along with William Smith, their financial backer, Peter Street, a carpenter, and ten to twelve workmen. The beams were then carried south of the river to Southwark to form part of their new playhouse, the Globe Theatre. Built in 1599, this theatre was destroyed in a fire on 29 June 1613. The Globe was rebuilt by June 1614 and finally closed in 1642. The company also toured Britain, and visited France and Belgium.\n\nA modern reconstruction of the original Globe, named \"Shakespeare's Globe\", opened in 1997 near the site of the original theatre.\n\nThe initial form of the Chamberlain's men arose largely from the departure of Edward Alleyn from Lord Strange's Men and the subsequent death of Lord Strange himself, in the spring of 1594. Yet the ultimate success of the company was largely determined by the Burbage family. James Burbage was the impresario who assembled the company and directed its activities until his death in 1597; his sons Richard and Cuthbert were members of the company, though Cuthbert did not act. This connection with the Burbages makes the Chamberlain's Men the central link in a chain that extends from the beginning of professional theatre (in 1574, James Burbage led the first group of actors to be protected under the 1572 statute against rogues and vagabonds) in Renaissance London to its end. In 1642, the King's Men were among the acting companies whose activities were ended by Parliament's prohibition of the stage.)\n\nThe Chamberlain's Men comprised a core of eight \"sharers,\" who split profits and debts; perhaps an equal number of hired men who acted minor and doubled parts; and a slightly smaller number of boy players, who were sometimes bound apprentices to an adult actor. The original sharers in the Chamberlain's were eight. Probably the most famous in the mid-1590s was William Kempe, who had been in the company of the Earl of Leicester in the 1580s, and had later joined the King's Men. As the company's clown, he presumably took the broadest comic role in every play; he is identified with Peter in the quarto of \"Romeo and Juliet\", and probably also originated Dogberry in \"Much Ado About Nothing\" and Bottom in \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\". Kempe has traditionally been viewed as the object of Hamlet's complaint about extemporising clowns; whether this association is right or wrong, Kempe had left the company by 1601. Another two sharers from Strange's Men had a long-standing association with Kempe. George Bryan had been in Leicester's Men in the 1580s, and at Elsinore with Kempe in 1586; because he is not mentioned in later Chamberlain's or King's Men documents, it is assumed that Bryan retired from the stage in 1597 or 1598. (Bryan lived on for some years; in the reign of James, he is listed as a Groom of the Chamber, with household duties, as late as 1613.) Thomas Pope, another Leicester's veteran, retired in 1600 and died in 1603. Both Bryan and Pope came to the company from Lord Strange's Men.\nAugustine Phillips also came from Strange's Men. He remained with the troupe until his death in 1605.\n\nTwo younger actors who came from Strange's, Henry Condell and John Heminges, are most famous now for collecting and editing the plays of Shakespeare's First Folio (1623). Both were relatively young in 1594, and both remained with the company until after the death of King James; their presence provided an element of continuity across decades of changing taste and commercial uncertainty.\n\nThe two sharers who would contribute the most to the Chamberlain's Men did not come from Strange's Men. Shakespeare's activities before 1594 have been a matter of considerable inquiry; he may have been with Pembroke's Men and Derby's Men in the early 1590s. As a sharer, he was at first equally important as actor and playwright. At an uncertain but probably early date, his writing became more important, although he continued to act at least until 1603, when he performed in Ben Jonson's \"Sejanus\".\n\nNo less important was Richard Burbage. He was the lead actor of the Chamberlain's Men, who played Hamlet and Othello, and would go on to play King Lear and Macbeth in the new reign of King James, among many other roles. Though relatively little-known in 1594, he would become one of the most famous of Renaissance actors, achieving a fame and wealth exceeded only by Alleyn's.\n\nAmong the hired men were some who eventually became sharers. William Sly, who performed occasionally with the Admiral's Men during the 1590s, acted for the Chamberlain's by 1598, and perhaps before; he became a sharer after Phillips's death in 1605. Richard Cowley, identified as Verges by the quarto of \"Much Ado About Nothing\", became a sharer in the King's Men. Nicholas Tooley, at one point apprenticed to Burbage, stayed with the company until his death in 1623. John Sincler (or Sincklo) may have specialised in playing thin characters; he seems to have remained a hired man. John Duke was a hired man who went to Worcester's Men early in James's reign.\n\nAt least two of the boys had distinguished careers. Alexander Cooke is associated with a number of Shakespeare's female characters, while Christopher Beeston went on to become a wealthy impresario in the seventeenth century.\n\nThe core members of the company changed in both major and minor ways before James's accession. The most famous change is that of Will Kemp, the circumstances of which remain unclear. Kempe was among the stakeholders in the Globe property, and he may have performed in that theatre in its first year. His famous morris dance to Norwich took place during Lent, when the company lay idle; not until the hastily added epilogue to \"Nine Days' Wonder\" (his account of the stunt) does he refer to his plan to return to individual performances. He may have had a hand in the bad quartos of \"Hamlet\" and \"The London Prodigal\", in which the clown parts are unusually accurate.\n\nWhatever the reason for his departure, Kempe was replaced by Robert Armin, formerly of Chandos's Men and an author in his own right. Small and fanciful, Armin offered significantly different options for Shakespeare, and the change is seen in the last Elizabethan and first Jacobean plays. Armin is generally credited with originating such characters as Feste in \"Twelfth Night\", Touchstone in \"As You Like It\", and the fool in \"King Lear\".\n\nThus, by 1603 the core of the troupe was in some respects younger than it had been in 1594. Bryan, Pope, and Kempe, veterans of the 1580s, had left, and the remaining sharers (with the probable exception of Phillips), were roughly within a decade of 40.\n\nShakespeare's work undoubtedly formed the great bulk of the company's repertory. In their first year of performance, they may have staged such of Shakespeare's older plays as remained in the author's possession, including \"Henry VI, Part 2\", \"Henry VI, Part 3\", as well as \"Titus Andronicus\". \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" may have been the first play Shakespeare wrote for the new company; it was followed over the next two years by a concentrated burst of creativity that resulted in \"Romeo and Juliet\", \"Love's Labours Lost\", \"The Merchant of Venice\", and the plays in the so-called second tetralogy. The extent and nature of the non-Shakespearean repertory in the first is not known; plays such as \"Locrine\", \"The Troublesome Reign of King John\", and Christopher Marlowe's \"Edward II\" have somewhat cautiously been advanced as likely candidates. The earliest non-Shakespearean play known to have been performed by the company is Ben Jonson's \"Every Man in His Humour\", which was produced in the middle of 1598; they also staged the thematic sequel, \"Every Man Out of His Humour\", the next year.\n\nOn the strength of these plays, the company quickly rivalled Alleyn's troupe for preeminence in London; as early as 1595 they gave four performances at court, followed by six the next year and four in 1597. These years were, typically for an Elizabethan company, also fraught with uncertainty. The company suffered along with the others in the summer of 1597, when the uproar over \"The Isle of Dogs\" temporarily closed the theatres; records from Dover and Bristol indicate that at least some of the company toured that summer. The character of Falstaff, though immensely popular from the start, aroused the ire of Lord Cobham, who objected to the use of the character's original name (Oldcastle), which derived from a member of Cobham's family.\n\nIn the last years of the century, the company continued to stage Shakespeare's new plays, including \"Julius Caesar\" and \"Henry V\", which may have opened the Globe, and \"Hamlet\", which may well have appeared first at the Curtain. Among non-Shakespearean drama, \"A Warning for Fair Women\" was certainly performed, as was the Tudor history \"Thomas Lord Cromwell\", sometimes seen as a salvo in a theatrical feud with the Admiral's Men, whose lost plays on Wolsey date from the same year.\n\nIn 1601, in addition to their tangential involvement with the Essex rebellion, the company played a role in a less serious conflict, the so-called War of the Theatres. They produced Thomas Dekker's \"Satiromastix\", a satire on Ben Jonson that seems to have ended the dispute. Somewhat uncharacteristically, Jonson does not appear to have held a grudge against the company; in 1603, they staged his \"Sejanus\", with dissatisfying results. They also performed \"The London Prodigal\", \"The Merry Devil of Edmonton\", and \"The Fair Maid of Bristow\", the last a rarity in that it is a Chamberlain's play that has never been attributed in any part to Shakespeare.\n\nThe Lord Chamberlain's Men, and its individual members, largely avoided the scandals and turbulence in which other companies and actors sometimes involved themselves. Their most serious difficulty with the government came about as a result of their tangential involvement in the February 1601 insurrection of the Earl of Essex. Some of Essex's supporters had commissioned a special performance of Shakespeare's \"Richard II\" in the hope that the spectacle of that king's overthrow might make the public more amenable to the overthrow of Elizabeth (who later remarked, \"I am Richard II, know ye not that?\"). Augustine Phillips was deposed on the matter by the investigating authorities; he testified that the actors had been offered 40 shillings more than their usual fee, and for that reason alone had performed the play on 7 February, the day before Essex's uprising. The explanation was accepted; the company and its members went unpunished, and even performed for Elizabeth at Whitehall on 24 February, the day before Essex's execution.\n\nThe following year, 1602, saw Christopher Beeston's rape charge. Probably some of the Lord Chamberlain's Men were among the actors who accompanied Beeston to his pretrial hearing at Bridewell and caused a disturbance there; but little can be said for certain.\n\n"}
{"id": "555921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555921", "title": "Massawa", "text": "Massawa\n\nMassawa (; ) is a city on the Red Sea coast of Eritrea located at the northern end of the Gulf of Zula beside the Dahlak Archipelago. As a historical and important port for many centuries, it was ruled by a succession of polities, including the Axumite Empire, Medri Bahri Kingdom, the Umayyad Caliphate, various Beja sultanates, the Ottoman Empire, the Khedivate of Egypt, Italy, Britain, and Ethiopia, until Eritrea's independence in 1991. Massawa was the capital of the Italian Colony of Eritrea until it was moved to Asmara in 1897.\n\nMassawa was originally a small seaside village, lying in lands coextensive with the Kingdom of Axum in antiquity and overshadowed by the nearby port of Adulis about to the south.\n\nThe city reportedly has the oldest mosque in Africa, that is the Mosque of the Companions (). It was reportedly built by companions of Muhammad who escaped persecution by Meccans. Following the fall of Axum in the 8th century, the area around Massawa and the town itself became occupied by the Umayyad Caliphate from 702 to 750 CE. The Beja people would also come to rule within Massawa during the Beja Kingdom of Eritrea from the year 740 to the 14th century. Massawa was sited between the sultanates of Qata, Baqulin, and Dahlak. Midri-Bahri, an Eritrean kingdom (14th–19th centuries), gained leverage at various times and ruled over Massawa. The port city would also come under the supreme control of the Balaw people (people of Arab descent), during the Balaw Kingdom of Eritrea (12th–15th centuries). At this time, the \"Sheikh Hanafi Mosque\", one of the country's oldest mosque, was built on Massawa Island, along with several other works of early Islamic architecture both in and around Massawa (including the Dahlak Archipelago and the Zula peninsula).\n\nThe port was a major site for the Arab slave trade and Venetian merchants were said to have lived in Massawa and nearby Suakin in the 15th century.\n\nMassawa became prominent when it was captured by the Ottoman Empire in 1557. The Ottomans made it the capital of Habesh Eyalet. Under Özdemir Pasha, Ottoman troops then attempted to conquer the rest of Eritrea. Due to resistance as well as sudden and unexpected demands for more troops in the Mediterranean and on the border with Persia, the Ottoman authorities placed the city and its immediate hinterlands under the control of one of the aristocrats of the Bellou people, whom they appointed \"Naib of Massawa\" and made answerable to the Ottoman governor at Suakin. The Ottomans nevertheless built the old town of Massawa on Massawa Island into a prominent port on the Red Sea in typical Islamic Ottoman architecture using dry corals for walls, roof and foundation as well as imported wood for beams, window shutters and balconies. These buildings and the old town of Massawa remain to this day, having withstood both earthquakes and wars with aerial bombardment.\n\nIn 1846, Massawa, and later much of the Northeast African coast of the Red Sea, came under the rule of the Khedive of Egypt with Ottoman consent.\n\nFollowing Egypt's defeat at the Battle of Gura, Egyptian control of the port withered. With the help of the British, the city eventually came under Italian control and became part of Italy's colony of Eritrea in 1885.\n\nItalian colonists started to settle in the port area in the early 1890s.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, the Kingdom of Italy created a modern port in Massawa for their newly acquired colony of Eritrea. From 1885–1897, Massawa (in the Italian spelling: 'Massaua') served as the capital of the region, before Governor Ferdinando Martini moved his administration to Asmara. Ras Alula's attack on nearby Dogali helped precipitate the First Italo-Ethiopian War; the Italians' disastrous defeat at Adwa ended their hopes of expanding further into the Ethiopian highlands for a decade and brought Menelik II's newly formed Ethiopian Empire international recognition.\n\nThe Italian colony suffered repeated earthquakes. Most of the city was completely destroyed by the 1921 earthquake: it took until 1928 to fully restore the port, hampering initially the Italian colonial ambitions.\n\nMassawa became the largest and safest port on the east coast of Africa, and the largest deep-water port on the Red Sea. Between 1887 and 1932, they expanded the Eritrean Railway, connecting Massawa with Asmara and then Bishia near the Sudan border, and completed the Asmara-Massawa Cableway. At long, it was the longest ropeway conveyor in the world at the time.\n\nIn 1938, Massawa had 15,000 inhabitants, of which almost 2,000 were Italians: the city was improved with an architectural plan similar to the one in Asmara, with a commercial and industrial area.\n\nDuring World War II Massawa was the homeport for the Red Sea Flotilla of the Italian Royal Navy. When the city fell during the East African Campaign, a large number of Italian and German ships were sunk in an attempt to block use of Massawa's harbor.\n\nFrom 15 April 1942, later master diver and salvage specialist RNR Lieutenant Peter Keeble (then a complete rookie in both disciplines) was assigned to the clearing of the harbour. He succeeded only in the simple task of salvaging an ex-Italian tugboat. The same month, United States Navy Commander Edward Ellsberg and his handful of crew arrived to take over. The wrecks were salvaged in short order and the port was returned to service, as part of what had now become the British protectorate of Eritrea.\n\nIn 1945, following the end of World War II, the port of Massawa suffered damage as the occupying British either dismantled or destroyed much of the facilities. These actions were protested by Sylvia Pankhurst in her book \"Eritrea on the Eve\".\n\nFrom 1952 to 1990, when Eritrea entered into a federation with Ethiopia, previously landlocked Ethiopia briefly enjoyed the use of Massawa as the headquarters of the now defunct Ethiopian Navy. Ultimately, Ethiopia dismantled the federation and forcibly annexed and occupied Eritrea. This led to the Eritrean War of Independence (1961–1991). In February 1990, units of the Eritrean People's Liberation Front captured Massawa in a surprise attack from both land and sea. Known as Operation Fenkil, the attack utilized both infiltrated commandos and speed boats. The success of this attack cut the major supply line to the Second Ethiopian Army in Asmara, which then had to be supplied by air. In response, the then leader of Ethiopia Mengistu Haile Mariam ordered Massawa bombed from the air, resulting in considerable damage. , the Eritrean government is rebuilding and repairing this damage.\n\nWith Eritrea's de facto independence (complete military liberation) in 1991, Ethiopia reverted to being landlocked and its Navy was dismantled (partially taken over by the nascent national navy of Eritrea).\n\nDuring the Eritrean-Ethiopian War the port was inactive, primarily due to the closing of the Eritrean-Ethiopian border which cut off Massawa from its traditional hinterlands. A large grain vessel donated by the United States, containing 15,000 tonnes of relief food, which docked at the port late in 2001, was the first significant shipment handled by the port since the war began.\n\nMassawa is home to a naval base and large dhow docks. It also has a station on the railway line to Asmara. Ferries sail to the Dahlak Islands and the nearby Sheikh Saeed Island, aka Green Island.\n\nIn addition, the city's air transportation needs are served by the Massawa International Airport.\nNotable buildings in the city include the shrine of Sahaba, as well as the 15th century Sheikh Hanafi Mosque and various houses of coral. Many Ottoman buildings survive, such as the local bazaar. Later buildings include the Imperial Palace, built in 1872 to 1874 for Werner Munzinger; St. Mary's Cathedral; and the 1920s Banco d'Italia. The Eritrean War of Independence is commemorated in a memorial of three tanks in the middle of Massawa.\n\nMassawa has a hot desert climate (Köppen climate classification \"BWh\"). The city receives a very low average annual rainfall amount totalling around and consistently experiences soaringly high temperatures during both day and night. The annual mean average temperature approaches , which is one of the highest found in the world. Massawa is noted for its very high summer humidity despite being a desert city. This combination of the desert heat and high humidity makes the apparent temperatures seem even more extreme. The sky is usually clear and bright throughout the year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7110190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7110190", "title": "Midwest Regional Conservation Guild", "text": "Midwest Regional Conservation Guild\n\nThe Midwest Regional Conservation Guild (MRCG) is a professional conservation association in the Midwestern United States.\n\nThe MRCG was formed in 1980 by art conservation and restoration professionals with the purpose of bringing together those individuals in the Midwest region (and beyond) interested in the preservation of historic and artistic works and to promote fellowship and exchange of ideas on a professional level.\n\nThe first meeting of the Guild was held at the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA) on Saturday, October 25, 1980. Art conservation experts specializing in archive, painting, paper, object, and textile conservation from Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Ohio met that day to discuss conservation treatment issues, conservation techniques, and the \"formation of an information network and cooperative disaster policy for the Midwest.\" (IMA) paintings conservator David Miller was the Guild's first president and presided over the first meeting of approximately 40 participants. The program consisted of an organizational meeting, museum tours, and two slide presentations.\n\nThe Guild was organized in recognition of the pressing concerns of \"museum curators and private collectors alike to preserve great works of art against the ravages of time and the environment, as well as to uncover increasingly sophisticated forgeries.\" \n\nThe original purpose and character of the guild was defined by six principles:\n\nFor more than 30 years, the Guild has had annual meetings throughout the Midwest region, often at area museums. There have been at least 49 annual meetings in 12 different states. The museums that have hosted the most meetings are:\nStarting in 1981 the Midwest Regional Conservation Guild Newsletter has been published bi-annually highlighting news gathered around the Midwest.\n\nIn 1993 the MRCG began producing its Membership Directory, which appeared yearly until it became an online resource with updates every few months.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9652462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9652462", "title": "Mitrofan Dovnar-Zapol'skiy", "text": "Mitrofan Dovnar-Zapol'skiy\n\nMitrofan Viktorovich Dovnar-Zapol'skiy (, ; , Rechytsa, Minsk Governorate — 30 September 1934, Moscow) was a historian, ethnographer, and diplomat of Belarusian origin. He hailed from the family of land-less smaller nobility and was the son of Collegiate Secretary.\n\nHe was the author of more than 150 works on the history of Kievan Rus', Muscovy, 19th-century Russia, Lithuania and Belarus, on the social-political movement, peasants' question and the ethnography of Belarus. Notably, the majority of his works were of a scientific-analytical nature. He extensively sourced his works on the materials from more than 20 archives in Moscow, Saint Petersburg, Kiev, Vilna, Warsaw, Cracow, Lviv, Kostroma, Yaroslavl', Novgorod, Nyasvizh etc. Many of his works remain unpublished. He was awarded the Order of Saint Vladimir 4th grade (April 1916) for his scientific work.\n\nAn alumnus of the historical-philological faculty of Kiev University (1893), he wrote a magister dissertation on history in Fall 1901 and a doctoral dissertation on history in 1906. He became Professor at Moscow University (1899) and professor of Russian history at Kiev University in 1902. He was the organiser and director of the Higher Commercial Courses (Kiev, 1906), one of the organizers and the first head of the South-Western Branch of the Russian Exports Chamber (1912), and head of several popular-scientific circles and societies in Kiev.\n\nAfter a conflict with students of Kiev Commercial Institute (1917) and the \"Case of Stashevskiy\" (1917), Dovnar-Zapol'skiy resigned from almost all professorial work. He then became professor at the Kharkiv Institute of People's Economy in December 1919 and at Kharkiv University in 1920, remaining there until 1921. He was also pro-rector of Azerbaijan University and professor of the Baku Polytechnical Institute from 1922 to 1925. Following that he was professor of Belarusian history at the Belarusian State University from October 1925 to Fall 1926, creating the Archeographical Commission of Inbelkult together with Dovgyallo in 1925. After the forced move to Moscow in the fall of 1926, he frequently had to seek occupation outside the field of science. He was professor at Timiryazev Academy in the 1930s. In the 1920s and 1930s, he occupied several management positions in the system of management of the economy in Soviet Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Belarus and Russia.\n\nHe participated in then-illegal movements of the 1880s and was temporary banned to settle in Kiev. Later, he sympathised with left movements.\n\nDovnar-Zapol'skiy actively supported the Belarusian People's Republic (BPR), headed the Belarusian Chamber of Commerce in Kiev in 1918 (confirmed by the Belarus People's Secretariat on 24 April 1918), and prepared the project of the creation of the Belarusian University in Minsk at the end of March 1918. From May to October 1918, he participated in the work of the BPR's diplomatic mission in Kiev, which sought the recognition of the BPR from representatives of Soviet Russia, Ukraine, Don, Germany and Austro-Hungary.\n\nAt the request of the BPR's authorities, he prepared the notable informational \"Memorandum\" (\"Foundations of statehood of Belarus\"), published in Grodno and Vilna in 1919 in Belarusian, Russian, Polish, German and French languages; also translated to English by P. Clark. This Memorandum contained the historical ground for the necessity of creation of independent Belarusian state and was presented at the Versailles conference by the BPR's delegation, albeit without positive outcome.\n\nHis two sons perished in the ranks of Red Army during the Russian Civil War.\n\nHis printed but unpublished book \"History of Belarus\" caused uprage among the Belarusian political authorities (beg. 1926), was denounced as a \"Cathechism of Belarusian National Democratism\", and was subsequently banned; the manuscript was confiscated. Consequently, Dovnar-Zapol'skiy was forced to move to Moscow, effectively exiled (Fall 1926), and never after returned to Belarus.\n\nFrom 1930 to 1934, he was heavily criticised for the alleged \"Neo-Narodnichestvo\", attributed the authorship of the ideological basis of \"National Democratism\", equated to the \"agents of fascism\" by acad. V.K. Shcherbakov, politically denounced together with his scientific school by his former pupil prof. A.P. Ogloblin (Kiev, 1934).\n\nPupil of professors Golubovskiy, Ikonnikov, and especially V.B. Antonovich, he sought to emulate the combination of scientific and educational activities, as manifested by P. Shafarik, V. Karajic, and N.I. Kostomarov.\n\nHe denounced the view of Belarusians as being devoid of nationality, and was a decided promoter and supporter of Belarusian national revival in the beginning of the 20th century. Dovnar-Zapol'skiy greeted the emergence of the \"strictly objective and scientific\" trend in Belarusian historical and ethnographical research. He showed general sympathy with Marxist theory but wasn't awed by it.\n\nDovnar-Zapol'skiy promoted the concept of primacy of the history of people over the history of states and considered ethnography and economics to be highly important, if not chief factors, in studying the history of society.\n\nAs part of his research into Belarusian history, he postulated the existence of Belarusian nationality with its own history, distinct ethnographical features, rich folk culture, with Belarusian language being heir of the speech of the Krivichi and the Dregovichs. He supported \"colonisational theory\" of emergence of state in Belarus, and considered Krivichi and Dregovichs largely to be isolated from Ancient Rus' state and therefore evolving differently. Dovnar-Zapol'skiy also postulated the absence of ethnographical unity in Ancient Rus' state, with external political and military affairs being the only binding factors in it.\n\nHe viewed the creation of Great Duchy of Lithuania and Rus' in the 13th century as \"partially\" peacefully created and mutually beneficial union between the princes of weakened Rus' and militant Lithuanian princes.\n\nHe also considered both the Lublin Union and Church Union to have been negative factors in Belarusian history, claiming they promote religious intolerance. He also disapproved of the incorporation of Belarusian land into Russia after the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth partitions. Generally, he considered \"two evils\" to have influenced Belarusian history negatively: the Polish \"szlachta aristocratical republic\" and the Russian \"boyar oligarchy\". He disapproved of both, as these excluded \"demos\", being therefore perilous to the Belarusian people who are \"highly democratic in their historical and folk traditions\".\n\nLater in the 1920s, the historian further emphasised the economical factor in history and the significance of class struggle in the history of the Great Duchy.\n\nHis person and works attracted all sorts of polarized opinions. Up to the 1930s, he was regarded generally positively by M.K. Lyubavskiy, V.I. Picheto, F.F. Turuk, D.I. Dovgyallo and others. Beginning in the 1930s, he fell under stigmatizing critique and denunciation as a scientist by S.Ya. Vol'fson, V.M. Pertsev, V.K. Shcherbakov and others. In the 1940s—1970s, comparatively \"safe to touch\" parts of his works (ethnographical, archeological, archeographical) were being explored and built upon by V.K. Bandarchyk, M.F. Pilipyenka, I.U. Chakvin, M.M. Ulashchyk, L.V. Alyaksyeyew). Historical part of his work remained visible as scarce references up to the mid-1980s. Attempts at estimating him as a historian were made in monographies of U.M. Mikhnyuk, Z.Yu. Kapyski, V.U. Chapko. In the 1990s, there appeared works researching the generalised scientific position of Dovnar-Zapol'skiy (S.I. Mikhal'chanka), the evolution of historical concept (Dz.U. Karaw, M.F. Shumyeyka).\n\nJohn Leslie Howard Keep and Alter L. Litvin refer to both Dovnar-Zapol'ski and Picheta as \"moderate (Belarusian) nationalists.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24657400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24657400", "title": "Museo del Aire (Cuba)", "text": "Museo del Aire (Cuba)\n\nThe Museo del Aire was a national aviation museum located in the south-western suburbs of Havana, Cuba. Until August 2010, the Museum address was: Museo del Aire, Avenida 212, entre la avenida 29 y 31, La Coronela, La Lisa. In about August 2010, the museum was closed, and the entire collection was moved to San Antonio de los Baños Air Base, no further details known.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "190900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190900", "title": "Nicander", "text": "Nicander\n\nNicander of Colophon (; fl. 2nd century BC), Greek poet, physician and grammarian, was born at Claros (Ahmetbeyli in modern Turkey), near Colophon, where his family held the hereditary priesthood of Apollo. He flourished under Attalus III of Pergamum.\n\nHe wrote a number of works both in prose and verse, of which two survive complete. The longest, \"Theriaca\", is a hexameter poem (958 lines) on the nature of venomous animals and the wounds which they inflict. The other, \"Alexipharmaca\", consists of 630 hexameters treating of poisons and their antidotes. Nicander's main source for medical information was the physician Apollodorus of Egypt. Among his lost works, \"Heteroeumena\" was a mythological epic, used by Ovid in the \"Metamorphoses\" and epitomized by Antoninus Liberalis; \"Georgica\", of which considerable fragments survive, was perhaps imitated by Virgil.\n\nThe works of Nicander were praised by Cicero (\"De oratore,\" i. 16), imitated by Ovid and Lucan, and frequently quoted by Pliny and other writers (\"e.g.\" Tertullian in \"De Scorpiace\", I, 1).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9961146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9961146", "title": "Nikolai Nadezhdin", "text": "Nikolai Nadezhdin\n\nNikolai Ivanovich Nadezhdin () ( – ) was a Russian literary critic and Russia's first ethnographer.\n\nBorn in Beloomut, Ryazan Governorate, Nadezhdin graduated from Ryazan Seminary in 1815 and Moscow Religious Academy in 1824. From 1824 to 1826 he was a professor of literature and German at Ryazan Seminary, but he was expelled because of his interest in the classics and moved to Moscow, where he became a private tutor and began a career in literature. \"Nadezhdin's conception of the classical age was itself romantic. Schelling was the new Plotinus, Napoleon the new Caesar, Schiller the new Vergil; and the implication was clear that the Russians were the new Christians. Nadezhdin had read Gibbon's \"Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\"; and, in his lectures at Moscow University in the early thirties, he likened Russia to a new band of barbaric hordes swarming over the collapsing West.\"\n\n\"Nadezhdin was an ally of the Pushkin crowd who was also completely committed to the apparently antithetical principles of personal criticism, personal attacks, and personae. Starting with his work in the late 1820s in the \"Herald of Europe\" and moving on to his editorship of both \"Telescope\" and its companion publication, \"Rumor\", Nadezhdin made his critical name not as Nadezhdin but as the \"Ex-Student Nikodim Nadoumko,\" resident of Patriarch's Ponds,\" according to Melissa Frazier.\nD.S. Mirsky wrote:...He began his career by publishing a series of scurrilous, though at times witty, articles against the Poets... He attacked Russian romanticism from the point of view of Schelling's German romantic idealism, denying all ideological significance to the Russian pseudo-romanticism... In a thesis on romantic poetry submitted to the University of Moscow in 1830 he advocated a synthesis of classicism and romanticism. In 1831 he started a monthly magazine, the \"Telescope\", where he continued his policy of belittling in the light of philosophical standards the achievement of Russian literature. In 1836 the magazine was suppressed for publishing Chaadaev's \"Philosophical Letter\". Nadézhdin himself was exiled to the North and not till some time afterwards allowed to return to Moscow. After that he renounced literature and devoted himself exclusively to his archæological and geographical studies.In 1845 he participated in a secret commission set up by Tsar Nicholas I dealing with heretical currents in Russia. He contributed the volume concerning the Skoptsy. He depicts his subject matter as a dangerous brotherhood threatening to overthrow the Tsar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2441544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2441544", "title": "Olay", "text": "Olay\n\nOlay, previously Oil of Olay or Oil of Ulay, is an American skin care line. It is one of Procter & Gamble's multibillion-dollar brands. For the 2009 fiscal year, which ended on June 30, Olay accounted for an estimated $2.8 billion of P&G's $79 billion in revenue.\n\nOlay originated in South Africa as Oil of Olay. Graham Wulff (1916–2008), a former Unilever chemist from Durban, started it in 1952. He chose the name \"Oil of Olay\" as a spin on the word \"lanolin\", a key ingredient.\n\nIt was unique in the early days because it was a pink fluid rather than a cream, packaged in a heavy glass bottle. Wulff and his marketing partner, Jack Lowe, a former copywriter, had tested the product on their wives and friends and were confident in its uniqueness and quality.\n\nOlay's marketing was also unique, since it was never described as a moisturizer, nor even as beauty fluid. Nowhere on the packaging did it say what the product actually did. Print advertisements used copy such as \"Share the secret of a younger looking you\" and talked about the \"beauty secret\" of Oil of Olay. Other advertisements were written as personal messages to the reader from a fictitious advice columnist named Margaret Merril. They ran in \"Reader's Digest\" and newspapers and often looked like editorials.\n\nWulff and Lowe, who ran the company under the banner of Adams National Industries (ANI), did not sell the product to the trade, but waited for pharmacies to ask for it based on consumer requests.\n\nAs the company began to market the product internationally, it was decided to modify the name of the product in each country so it would sound pleasing and realistic to consumers. This led to the introduction of Oil of Ulay (UK and Ireland), Oil of Ulan (Australia) and Oil of Olaz (France, Italy, the Netherlands and Germany). In 1970, ANI opened a test market in the US (Chicago), and was expanding into northern Germany.\n\nRichardson Merrell Inc (later Richardson-Vicks Inc) acquired ANI in November 1970. RVI capitalized the \"Oil\" and added the sub-name \"Beauty Fluid\" to help protect the trade mark. They further added a sales force and created TV advertising. The company extended the product range to include items such as Night of Ulay and Beauty Cleanser, and expanded into more countries (Spain, France, and Germany).\n\nThe result of Richardson Merrell's efforts was a dramatic increase in sales. However, as with many brands, the business was not managed uniformly so there were differences in performance between the countries.\n\nRVI was acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1985. P&G greatly expanded Olay both in lineup and internationally. Olay became P&G's 13th billion dollar brand in 2013.\n\nSince then, the range has been expanded to include a full range of hypoallergenic variants, cleansers and creams with the aim of meeting the full range of skincare needs, whatever the user's age or skin type. The brand also includes soap, and body wash. Olay Cosmetics was launched in 1996 but discontinued in 2001.\n\nIn 1999, it was decided to unify the brand under a global name. Thus, Oil of Ulan and Ulay became Olay on a worldwide basis, except in German-speaking regions and Italy, where it remained \"Oil of Olaz\". In the Netherlands and Belgium, it was renamed just \"Olaz\".\n\nThe Olay brand has expanded into a range of other products grouped into \"boutiques\" including Complete, Total Effects, ProX, Regenerist, Regenerist Luminous, Classics, Fresh Effects, Body (North America) and White Radiance (Asia). Olay is the market leader in many countries including the US, UK, and China. Olay has extended its heritage as a moisturizer to stay looking young, to formally creating the \"anti-aging\" category in mass stores with the launch of Total Effects in 1999. Active Hydrating Formula, generally the least expensive variety, bears the closest resemblance to the pink \"Oil of Olay\" marketed in the US before the P&G acquisition. The launch was almost double the typical price of a mass market moisturizer at the time. Today, there are numerous products on the market that are more expensive than Olay.\n\nOlay Regenerist was the best performing anti-aging cream in a 2006 test done by a consumer association, outperforming some much more expensive brands. This report also stated:\n\nOlay's current slogan is \"Ageless\". Previous slogans included \"Your best beautiful\", \"Challenge what's possible\" and \"Love the skin you're in\".\n\nIn October 2000, Olay launched in the Philippines.\n\nIn August 2007, Olay was launched in India.\n\nSince 2010, Oil of OLAZ has simply been known as OLAZ in German-speaking countries. Slogan: \"\"Olaz lässt Sie strahlen\".\" (lit: \"Olaz lets you shine.\")\n\nThe Olay brand strives to understand more about the biology of skin and utilize large portions of their resources to research and development. Examples of their most recent research projects include the \"Multi-Decade and Ethnicity Project\", which was launched in 2012 with their partners, 23andMe. The objective of the project was to research the genealogical science of skin aging. The final results were presented to the 23rd World Congress of Dermatology in June 2015.\n\nIn August 2016, Olay launched a new innovative tool called the Skin Advisor, designed to help consumers find the right product for their exact skin type. After uploading a selfie and answering some skin care questions, the Skin Advisor will analyze your skin, tell you your skin age and provide product recommendations for any problem areas.\n\nOlay uses many different ingredients in the production of their skin care line. The main ingredients used include retinyl propionate (vitamin A derivative), glycerin, niacinamide (vitamin B3), broad spectrum sunscreen, and amino peptides. Some of the products also include more hazardous ingredients, such as triethanolamine, propylparaben, benzyl salicylate, butylphenyl methylpropional (also called Lilial), hydroxyisohexyl 3-cyclohexene carboxaldehyde, and polyethylene glycol-4 dilaurate.\n\nIn 2011, Olay ranked in 1st place among 50 of the industry leaders in Brand Finance's Top 50 Cosmetic Brands. The most recent report for 2015 has Olay ranking 9th in the Top 50.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4588934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4588934", "title": "Paul Piccone", "text": "Paul Piccone\n\nPaul Piccone (January 17, 1940 – July 12, 2004) was an Italian-American philosopher, critical theorist, intellectual historian, and most notably the founder and long-time editor of the journal \"TELOS\".\n\nHe was born in L'Aquila in Italy to a family that emigrated to Rochester, New York in the mid-1950s. In 1968 he and others started the journal \"TELOS\", which he edited until his death in 2004.\n\nHe completed a doctorate in philosophy at SUNY in 1970. He then taught at Washington University, St. Louis until 1977.\n\nFrom Timothy Luke's \"The Trek with Telos: A Rememberance (sic) of Paul Piccone\":\n\n\"Paul Piccone was one of this generation's most influential critical intellectuals, whose analytical work ranged from phenomenological Marxism to analyses of neo-Stalinism in Eastern Europe to Carl Schmitt's geopolitical visions for new modes of civic action. Piccone was born in L'Aquila, Italy on January 17, 1940. He immigrated to the United States with his family at age 14, and they settled in Rochester, New York. After undergraduate studies at Indiana University, he did his doctoral work in philosophy at SUNY-Buffalo where he received his Ph.D. in 1970. He was appointed to a position in the Department of Sociology at Washington University, St. Louis, and published Telos from his office there until he was denied promotion and tenure in 1977. Following a tumultuous administrative and legal struggle to reverse that decision, he left the Midwest to set up shop in New York's East Village in the 1980s.\n\nFor over three decades, Telos survived as an independent \"quarterly journal of critical thought\" under his engaged and always intense editorship. Not long after turning 60, Piccone contracted a rare form of cancer during 2000. He battled it successfully for many long months, but on July 12, 2004, he died at age 64. A sharp philosophical critic and insightful political analyst whose award-winning book Italian Marxism remains the single best study of this subject, Paul Piccone also was the editor, organizer, and publisher of Telos. While he was a renowned scholar of international repute in his own right, Telos is his major legacy to the world, and it is the project for which he is best known.\nMany often experienced bombastic or even brusque \"first contacts\" with Paul Piccone, but that intensity belied how fully he was borne along by a bubbling spirit of self-confidence, tough-mindedness, and craftsmanship. Much of this apparent bombast came from his unusual voice. And, in so many ways, that voice was the quality with which he defined himself—both personally and intellectually. Its sound engaged, enraged, or entranced, but his voice is what most will remember—first, and maybe last—about him. Echoes of this voice gather in his friend's memories, its conceptual cadence still collects thinkers together, and the power continues to move many in their lives. With everyone's memories, from his stories, and in the pages of Telos, Paul Piccone's voice will reverberate across the years for readers and writers.\n\nMuch of what Telos editors now do, have done, and will do in the future can be traced back in some way or another to Paul Piccone and Telos. While he could seem bombastic and brusque, he also was a generous and engaging person. Even so, one must keep the picture clear here. Paul Piccone could be quite cantankerous, cranky, or contradictory. On any given day, he would be argumentative and analytical, amusing and alienating, astonishing and aggravating. So time spent with Piccone was never dull. And, as Telos shows, he always strived to be, at the end of the day, ahead of the pack, attentive to his craft, and amazing in his philosophical and political passions.\n\nUnlike too many self-proclaimed liberal academics, who talk the talk but never walk the walk of embracing real difference, Paul strode through life gathering together one of the most truly diverse gaggle of colleagues, collaborators, or real comrades one has ever seen. From all classes, nationalities, races, identities, religions, occupations, and neighborhoods, a whole host of people would call Paul their friend, and they continued to do so throughout their lives.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2985532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2985532", "title": "Peter Ludlow", "text": "Peter Ludlow\n\nPeter Ludlow (; born January 16, 1957), who also writes under the pseudonym Urizenus Sklar, is an American philosopher of language. He is noted for interdisciplinary work on the interface of linguistics and philosophy—in particular on the philosophical foundations of Noam Chomsky's theory of generative linguistics and on the foundations of the theory of meaning in linguistic semantics. He has worked on the application of analytic philosophy of language to topics in epistemology, metaphysics, and logic, among other areas.\n\nLudlow has also established a research program outside of philosophy and linguistics. Here, his research areas include conceptual issues in cyberspace, particularly questions about cyber-rights and the emergence of laws and governance structures in and for virtual communities, including online games, and as such he is also noted for influential contributions to legal informatics. In recent years Ludlow has written nonacademic essays on hacktivist culture and related phenomena such as WikiLeaks.\n\nLudlow has taught as a professor of philosophy at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, the University of Michigan, the University of Toronto and Northwestern University, where he was the John Evans Professor in Moral and Intellectual Philosophy. In May 2015, Ludlow resigned his position at Northwestern after a university disciplinary body found that \"he had engaged in sexual harassment involving two students.\"\n\nLudlow received his B.A. in 1979 from Bethel College. He received his PhD in philosophy from Columbia University in 1985 under the direction of Charles Parsons, but also studied with Noam Chomsky and James Higginbotham at MIT. He worked for a year on projects related to natural language processing as an engineer at Honeywell from 1985 to 1986.\n\nFrom 1987 to 2002 he worked at the State University of New York at Stony Brook Department of Philosophy as an assistant professor and from 1994 as an associate professor. He was a professor of philosophy at the University of Michigan from 2002 to 2007, a professor of philosophy at the University of Toronto from 2007 to 2008 and a professor of philosophy at the Northwestern University from 2008 to 2015. From 2011 he was also John Evans Professor in Moral and Intellectual Philosophy at Northwestern University.\n\nHe has been a visiting fellow at the Ca' Foscari University of Venice in 1993, 1995 and 1997–1998, when he held a Fulbright distinguished chair. He has also been a visiting fellow at King's College London in 1997 and a visiting professor at the Rutgers University Center for Cognitive Science in 2012, where he taught a course on hacktivism. He has also held visiting positions at several other universities in the United States and Europe.\n\nLudlow's work in generative linguistics has revolved around three basic themes.The first theme is that generative linguistics at its best is concerned with understanding and explanation, and not just with observation and data gathering. To this end, generative linguistics is interested in underlying mechanisms that give rise to language related phenomena, and this interest will often trump the goal of accumulating more data.\n\nThe second theme is what he calls the \"Ψ-language hypothesis\". It is the hypothesis that the underlying mechanisms (the more basic elements) posited by generative linguists are fundamentally psychological mechanisms and that generative linguistics is a branch of cognitive psychology, but against Noam Chomsky's I-Language hypothesis Ludlow argues that it doesn’t follow that cognitive psychology must therefore be interested in mental states individuated solely by what happens inside the language user's head. It is consistent with the Ψ-language hypothesis that psychological states (and indeed syntactic states) are individuated in part by the embedding environment.\n\nThe third theme is what Ludlow calls the principle of \"methodological minimalism\". It is the thesis that best theory criteria like simplicity and formal rigor cannot be given theory neutral definitions, and thus must really come down to one thing: seek methods that help linguists to do their jobs with the minimum of cognitive labor.\n\nLudlow's earliest work in semantics was an attempt to combine work in the theory of meaning with contemporary work in generative linguistics, but using resources that are more parsimonious than those typically used in semantic theory—for example without using the higher-order functions and intensional objects deployed in Montague grammar. The resources were largely limited to primitives like truth and reference to individuals.\n\nHis subsequent work has explored ways of formalizing alternative approaches to semantic theory—including the possibility of formalizing a Wittgensteinian use theory or expressivist semantics for natural language, which is to say a theory in which the building blocks of a semantic theory are expressions of attitudes rather than primitives like truth and reference.\n\nLudlow's PhD dissertation defended a proposal dating back to the medieval logician Jean Buridan, and revived by W.V.O. Quine in philosophy and James McCawley in linguistics, according to which so-called \"intensional transitive verbs\" like \"seek\" and \"want\" are really propositional attitudes in disguise. He has subsequently developed these ideas in collaboration with the linguists Richard Larson and Marcel den Dikken.\n\nLudlow's paper with the semanticist Richard Larson, \"Interpreted Logical Forms\", advocated a quasi-sententialist view of propositional attitude verbs (a view that has been criticized by Scott Soames in Chapter 7 of his book \"Beyond Rigidity\"). Ludlow's response to Soames involves the idea that propositional attitude reports are not supposed to correspond to some fact about what is going on inside the agent's head but rather are created by a speaker S, for the benefit of a hearer H, to help H form some theory about the agent being reported on. Crucial to this account is the idea that the lexicon is dynamic and that speakers engaged in conversation will negotiate the coinage of terms \"on the fly\" in constructing attitude reports.\n\nLudlow's work on interpreted logical forms has led to the development of a view of linguistic meaning according to which meaning shifts are much more common than intuition suggests. He rejects the \"common coin\" view of word meaning, and argues that word meanings are negotiated on the fly as conversational partners build little microlanguages together. These ideas have subsequently been applied to controversies in epistemology (see below).\n\nIn his article \"Implicit Comparison Classes\" Ludlow argues for the syntactic reality of comparison class variables in adjectival constructions. That is, when one says \"the elephant is small\", there is an implicit variable for the comparison class (in this case elephants, as in \"small for an elephant\"), and that variable is represented by the language faculty. That work was influential in subsequent work on the context sensitivity of language by Jason Stanley and Zoltán Gendler Szabó, and has played a role in debates about contextualism in contemporary epistemology.\n\nRecent work in epistemology has pushed back against skepticism by arguing that knowledge attributions are context sensitive—our standards of knowledge vary from context to context. So, while in a philosophy class I may not know I have hands, in other contexts (for example, chatting in a bar) I do. Ludlow initially argued that there were implicit argument positions for standards of knowledge. In response to criticism from Jason Stanley in his book \"Knowledge and Practical Interests\", Ludlow has advanced a doctrine that he calls \"Cheap Contextualism\". The idea is that on the dynamic lexicon view, shifts in word meaning are ubiquitous, and the meaning of the term \"know\" is not an exception. Contextualism in epistemology is just a consequence of these garden variety shifts in meaning.\n\nLudlow has written a series of papers on the logical form of determiners (words like \"all\", \"some\", and \"no\") and has pursued the idea that their most interesting properties can be given purely formal or syntactic accounts. The work borrows from one of the central ideas of medieval logic—the hypothesis that all the key logical inferences can be reduced down to just two basic inferences that are sensitive to whether the syntactic environment was dictum de omni or dictum de nullo—classical notions that are basically equivalent to the contemporary notions of upward and downward entailing environments. To explain, in an upward entailing (de omni) environment a superset can be substituted for any set. In a downward entailing environment a subset may be substituted for a set. Ludlow revives the medieval project by combining it with the descriptive tools of contemporary Chomskyan linguistics and recent technical work in formal logic.\n\nLudlow's first book, \"Semantics, Tense, and Time\", was devoted to arguing that presentism, a metaphysical thesis that denies the reality of past and future events, is consistent with the intuitive truth of much of our tensed discourse. More recently, he has argued that while tense is an ineliminable feature of reality, the resulting position (called \"tensism\") does not force us to be presentists.\n\nMost of Ludlow's work on cyberculture has centered on the question of governance for virtual worlds and he has been critical of what he calls the \"Greek god model\" of virtual world governance. This is a model in which virtual world platform owners do not have coherent systematic policies to deal with in world disputes, but rather reach in and dabble as suits their dispositions at the moment. In an e-book entitled \"Our Future in Virtual Worlds\" Ludlow argues that as our lives continue to move online, the Greek god model becomes ever more dangerous. This critique has been extended to social networking platforms more generally.\n\nLudlow founded \"The Alphaville Herald\" on October 23, 2003. It was the unofficial newspaper for the Alphaville server of \"The Sims Online\", where Ludlow used the avatar Urizenus Sklar. Its stories uncovered in-game scams and cyber-prostitution, and highlighted Electronic Arts' indifference to the social problems in their game.\n\nIn a controversy, reported in the \"New York Times\" and elsewhere (including law journals), Ludlow was kicked out of \"The Sims Online\" after some editorials criticized Electronic Arts Corporation for their failures at managing and policing the gamespace. The newspaper subsequently migrated to another virtual world, \"Second Life\", in June 2004.\n\nThe Herald has been written about in \"Wired\" and the \"Columbia Journalism Review\". Ludlow (in the voice of Urizenus Sklar) is currently a contributing editor, while the avatar Pixeleen Mistral, revealed by Ludlow in 2010 to be Internet pioneer Mark P. McCahill, is the newspaper's managing editor.\n\nLudlow and Mark Wallace wrote a book about \"The Herald\" and its exploits called \"The Second Life Herald: the Virtual Tabloid that Witnessed the Dawn of the Metaverse\" (MIT Press, 2007). The book received the American Association of Publishers, Professional/Scholarly Publishing award for \"Best Book in Media and Cultural Studies, 2007\", was named a \"Outstanding Academic Title, 2008\", and \"Library Journal\" honored it as a \"Top Sci-Tech Book, 2007,\" (they ranked it one of top 39 science books of 2007 and top book in category of Computer Science).\n\nMTV.com has described Ludlow as the \"Unwelcome Guest\" in the \"10 most influential video game players of all time\" because of his chronicles about online video games. In particular MTV wrote that EA revoked Ludlow's \"online citizenship\" in \"The Sims Online\", allegedly because the \"offense was Ludlow's publication of a \"TSO\"-centric newspaper that chronicled creative and sometimes troublesome behavior of other gamers in the world, including allegations that under-age players were involved in virtual-sex-related activities. EA claimed Ludlow's newspaper violated the terms of service for playing \"TSO\"\" and that Ludlow later similarly chronicled the game \"Second Life\" with his \"The Second Life Herald\".\n\nLudlow has been a highly prominent, and sometimes controversial, figure in several virtual worlds communities, especially \"The Sims Online\" and \"Second Life\", since the early 2000s. He has been accused by Scott Jennings and Catherine Fitzpatrick of giving griefers \"his blessing\" through his newspaper, \"The Alphaville Herald\".\n\nLudlow resigned from his position at Northwestern in November 2015 after a university disciplinary body found that he sexually assaulted two students. Ludlow denied any wrongdoing and said the relationship was consensual. Fellow Northwestern professor Laura Kipnis defended him, stating that female university students should be responsible for their own decisions about whether to date a professor, and argued that \"you have to feel a little sorry these days for professors married to their former students. They used to be respectable citizens [...] and now they’re abusers of power.\" In 2017 Laura Kipnis published the book \"\", discussing the Ludlow case in detail; one of the students who brought the Title IX complaint against Ludlow has sued Kipnis for defamation based on the description in the book. In March 2018, the district court denied the defendants' motion to dismiss the student's lawsuit.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52856104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52856104", "title": "Ross McKibbin", "text": "Ross McKibbin\n\nRoss Ian McKibbin, FBA (born January 1942) is an Australian academic historian whose career, spent almost entirely at the University of Oxford, has been devoted to studying the social, political and cultural history of modern Britain, especially focusing on Labour politics and class cultures.\n\nRoss Ian McKibbin was born in Sydney, Australia, in January 1942, the son of Arnold Walter McKibbin, a teacher, and his wife, Nance Lilian, daughter of Clarence Spence, a bank manager from Bega. McKibbin's father's family emigrated from Northern Ireland in the 1860s. His paternal grandfather was the secretary to the vice-chancellor of Sydney University and the family were staunchly Protestant. When Arthur McKibbin was demobilised from the RAAF after World War II, he took up teaching at North Sydney Boys' High School until 1951, when the family relocated to Forbes, a rural township in New South Wales; five years later, they moved to Orange, where McKibbin completed his schooling.\n\nIn 1959, he enrolled at Sydney University, around the same time that his father was offered a bureaucratic post in the city's Education Department. At university, he involved himself in the Labour Club, wrote a dissertation on the origins of Australian nationalism and received a university prize for his fourth-year examination results. Influenced by a tutor, Ernest Bramsted, and his own Labour politics, McKibbin became interested in the history of the British Labour Party which, in contrast to its Australian counterpart, then embraced a certain left-wing idealism. Keen to access British archives, he completed his doctorate on the party's early history under the supervision of Pat Thompson at St Antony's College, Oxford, between 1964 to 1967. He returned to Australia to lecture at the University of Sydney between 1968 and 1969; finding, once again, that he needed ready access to British archives, he was appointed a Research Lecturer at Christ Church, Oxford.\n\nIn 1972, McKibbin became a Fellow and Tutor in Modern History at St John's College, Oxford, and remained there for the rest of his career. Between 2006 and 2015, he was an Emeritus Research Fellow there and in 2015 he became Emeritus Fellow. In 1999, he was elected a Fellow of the British Academy, and in 2009, he was elected an honorary Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities. McKibbin's work has focused on working-class life and the politics of the Labour party and the labour movement more generally. In the words of Peter Ghosh, McKibbin's work \"embraces an unprecedented range of the life and activities of the ‘ordinary man’; it combines the most generous human sympathies with a stringent intellectual discipline; and it embodies a radical and novel conceptualization of the recent past\".\n\nIn addition to many reviews for the \"London Review of Books\", and an obituary of his doctoral supervisor for \"The Guardian\", McKibbin's academic works include:\n\n\n\nClare V. J. Griffiths, James J. Nott & William Whyte (eds.) \"Classes, Cultures, and Politics: Essays on British History for Ross McKibbin.\" Oxford University Press, 2011.\n"}
{"id": "53195889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53195889", "title": "Sebkha-El-Coursia", "text": "Sebkha-El-Coursia\n\nSebkha-El-Coursia is a salt pan, locality and archaeological site in Tunisia. It was an ancient Roman Catholic diocese.\n\nDuring antiquity the city was a civitas of the Roman province of Africa Proconsularis called \"Giufi Salaria\".\n\nDuring the Byzantine and Roman Empires, Sebkha-El-Coursia was also the seat of an ancient Christian episcopal see, suffragan to the Archdiocese of Carthage. Only two bishops of Giufi Salaria are known. Procolo a catholic attended the Council of Carthage (411), and Bennato who participated in the anti-monothetalism Council of Carthage (646). \n\nToday Giufi Salaria survives as titular bishopric and the current bishop is Herman Willebrordus Woorts, of Utrecht. \n"}
{"id": "18985156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18985156", "title": "Sock", "text": "Sock\n\nA sock is an item of clothing worn on the feet and often covering the ankle or some part of the calf. Some type of shoe or boot is typically worn over socks. In ancient times, socks were made from leather or matted animal hair. In the late 16th century, machine-knit socks were first produced. Until 1800 both hand knitting and machine knitting were used to produce socks, but after 1800, machine knitting became the predominant method.\n\nOne of the roles of socks is absorbing perspiration. The foot is among the heaviest producers of sweat in the body, as it can produce over of perspiration per day; socks help to absorb this sweat and draw it to areas where air can evaporate the perspiration. In cold environments, socks made from wool insulate the foot and decrease the risk of frostbite. Socks are worn with sport shoes (typically white-coloured socks) and dress shoes (typically dark-coloured socks). In addition to the numerous practical roles played by socks, they are also a fashion item, and they are available in myriad colours and patterns.\nThe modern English word \"sock\" is derived from the Old English word \"socc\", meaning \"light slipper\". This comes from the Latin \"soccus\", a term to describe a \"light, low-heeled shoe\" worn by Roman comic actors, and deriving from the Ancient Greek word \"sykchos\".\n\nSocks have evolved over the centuries from the earliest models, which were made from animal skins gathered up and tied around the ankles. According to the Greek poet Hesiod, in the 8th century BC, the Ancient Greeks wore socks called \"piloi\", which were made from matted animal hair. The Romans also wrapped their feet with leather or woven fabrics. Around the 2nd century AD, the Romans started sewing the fabrics together making fitted socks called \"udones\". By the 5th century AD, socks called \"puttees\" were worn by holy people in Europe to symbolize purity. \n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the length of trousers was extended and the sock became a tight, brightly colored cloth covering the lower part of the leg. Since socks didn’t have an elastic band, garters were placed over the top of the stockings to prevent them from falling down. When breeches became shorter, socks began to get longer (and more expensive). By 1000 AD, socks became a symbol of wealth among the nobility. From the 16th century onwards, an ornamental design on the ankle or side of a sock has been called a clock.\n\nThe invention of a knitting machine in 1589 meant that socks could be knitted six times faster than by hand. Nonetheless, knitting machines and hand knitters worked side by side until 1800.\n\nThe next revolution in sock production was the introduction of nylon in 1938. Until then socks were commonly made from silk, cotton and wool. Nylon was the start of blending two or more yarns in the production of socks, a process that still continues today.\n\nSocks can be created from a wide variety of materials, such as cotton, wool, nylon, acrylic, polyester, olefins, (such as polypropylene), or spandex. To get an increased level of softness other materials that might be used during the process can be silk, bamboo, linen, cashmere, or mohair. The color variety of sock choices can be any color that the designers intend to make the sock upon its creation. Sock 'coloring' can come in a wide range of colors. Sometimes art is also put onto socks to increase their appearance. Colored socks may be a key part of the uniforms for sports, allowing players teams to be distinguished when only their legs are clearly visible.\n\nThe township-level district of Datang in the city of Zhuji in Zhejiang Province, People's Republic of China, has become known as Sock City. The town currently produce 8 billion pairs of socks each year, a third of the world's sock production, effectively creating two pairs of socks for every person on the planet in 2011.\n\nSocks are manufactured in a variety of lengths. Bare or ankle socks extend to the ankle or lower and are often worn casually or for athletic use. Bare socks are designed to create the look of \"bare feet\" when worn with shoes. Knee-high socks are sometimes associated with formal dress or as being part of a uniform, such as in sports (like football and baseball) or as part of a school's dress code or youth group's uniform. Over-the-knee socks or socks that extend higher (thigh-high socks) are today considered female garments. They were widely worn by children, both boys and girls, during the late 19th and early 20th centuries., although the popularity varied widely from country to country. When worn by adult females, knee-high or thigh-high socks can become the object of sexual attraction and fetishism by some men.\nA toe sock encases each toe individually the same way a finger is encased in a glove, while other socks have one compartment for the big toe and one for the rest, like a mitten; most notably Japanese tabi. Both of these allow one to wear flip-flops with the socks.\nLeg warmers, which are not typically socks, may be replaced with socks in cold climates.\n\nA business sock is a term for a colored sock for conservative appearance and casual footwear. The term is often used loosely to indicate a term for a conservative office setting. For instance, business socks, business shirts and business shoes are used for office and job. These socks usually have patterns and are known to be a cause for bleach stains in laundry machines due to their colored manufacturing process and dyed attributes.\n\nCrew socks are short, thick everyday socks usually ribbed at the top of the ankles. They can be used in a way to warm legs. The first familiar practice of crew sock was in 1948. Crew socks are usually unisex.\n\nLow cut sock is a kind of sock that describe in a way to be cut below ankle. Low cut socks are formed to cover the contours of feet. Low cut socks are unisex wearing but women and girls commonly use them. Low cut socks are normally worn with shoes such as boat shoes, Oxfords, moccasins and loafers.\n\nThe Ancient Egyptian style of sock is a blend between modern Western socks and Japanese tabi, both of which it predates. Like tabi, Egyptian socks have one compartment for the big toe and another for the rest, permitting their use with sandals; like Western socks, they fit snugly to the foot and do not use fasteners like tabi.\n\nAlthough generally holding to a pattern of being divided into sizes of small-medium-large, etc., what range of shoe sizes those sock sizes correspond to carries in different markets. Some size standards are coordinated by standard-setting bodies but others have arisen from custom. Sock lengths vary, from ankle-high to thigh level.\n\nMost sports will require some sort of sock, usually a tube sock to protect one's legs from being scraped while participating in sport activities. In basketball, tube socks are worn, and in lacrosse, mid-calf socks are required. In football, knee socks are used. They are mostly to stop grass burns.\n\nThe layer of leather or other material covering the insole of a shoe is also referred to as a sock. When only part of the insole is covered, leaving the forepart visible, this is known as a half-sock.\n\nFootwraps, pieces of cloth that are worn wrapped around the feet, were worn with boots before socks became widely available. They remained in use by armies in Eastern Europe up until the beginning of the 21st century.\n\nFor use in cold environments, thermal socks are thicker. They are commonly worn for skiing, skating, and other winter sports. They not only provide insulation, but greater padding due to their thickness.\n\nDiabetic socks are kind of thermal sock made from a acrylic, cotton, nylon, and elastic. These are made to improve comfort while at the same time keeping feet cool and dry. There is no solid evidence that they are helpful.\n\nA sock is also used as a holiday item during Christmas. Children hang a large ceremonial sock called a Christmas stocking by a nail or hook on Christmas Eve, and then their parents fill it with small presents while the recipients are asleep. According to tradition, Santa Claus brings these presents.\n\nAmong Muslims, socks have initiated a discussion about the intricacies of wudhu, the formal washing carried out before prayer. Some Muslim clerics, mindful of possible hardship among Muslims in inhospitable circumstances, have issued Muslim edicts permitting practicing Muslims to wipe water over their sock or sprinkle their sock. This would allow prayer where there are no seating facilities, or if there is a queue. This is the stated opinion especially of Maliki Sunnis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53315171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53315171", "title": "Stolpersteine in Ústí nad Labem Region", "text": "Stolpersteine in Ústí nad Labem Region\n\nThe Stolpersteine in the Ústecký kraj lists the Stolpersteine in the Ústí nad Labem Region (Czech: Ústecký kraj) in the north-west of Bohemia. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide.\n\nGenerally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: \"Kameny zmizelých\", stones of the disappeareds.\n\nThe Stolpersteine in the Ústecký kraj were collocated by the artist himself on the following dates:\n\nThe Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the \"Česká unie židovské mládeže\" (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47004010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47004010", "title": "Stuart Carroll", "text": "Stuart Carroll\n\nStuart Carroll is professor of history at the University of York. He won the J. Russell Major prize of the American Historical Association in 2011 for the best French history book of the year for his \"Martyrs and Murderers: The Guise Family and the Making of Europe\" (2009).\n\nCarroll did his BA at the University of Bristol and PhD at the University of London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "537568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537568", "title": "Third Indochina War", "text": "Third Indochina War\n\nThe Third Indochina War was a series of interconnected armed conflicts, mainly among the various communist factions over strategic influence in Indochina after peace between the United States and North Vietnam had been concluded in January 1973. The complete American withdrawal instantaneously eliminated the principal and common adversary of all the communist powers. Ever more diverging Chinese and Soviet strategic and political doctrines had increased the Sino-Soviet split of the mid-1950s. The local communist regimes of Cambodia, Vietnam and Laos pledged allegiance with one of these two opposing factions. The ensuing hostilities were fuelled by century-old animosities between Vietnam and Cambodia, and - particularly - Vietnam and China.\n\nIn 1975 first military engagements arose between communist Vietnam and the Cambodian Khmer Rouge regime, which resulted in a more than a decade long Vietnamese occupation of Cambodia. The Vietnamese push to completely destroy the Khmer Rouge unavoidably brought them into open conflict with Thailand.\n\nChina had hardly opposed Vietnam's active role in the suppression of the anti-communist Insurgency in Laos, however it strongly objected to the invasion of Cambodia. Chinese armed forces launched a punitive operation in February 1979 and attacked Vietnam's northern provinces, determined to contain Soviet/Vietnamese influence and prevent territorial gains in the region.\n\nIn order to acquire full control over Cambodia the People's Army of Vietnam needed to dislodge the remaining Khmer Rouge leaders and units, that had retreated to the remote areas along the Thai-Cambodian border. The situation escalated as Thailand's territorial sovereignty was violated on numerous occasions. Heavy fighting with many casualties resulted from direct confrontations between Vietnamese and Thai troops. Thailand increased troop strength, purchased new equipment and built a diplomatic front against Vietnam, that included China. After the Paris Peace Conference in 1989, the NVA withdrew from Cambodian territory. Finally regular troop engagements in the region ended after the conclusion of the 1991 Paris Peace Accords.\n\nAfter Joseph Stalin's death in 1953 Nikita Khrushchev became leader of the Soviet Union. His denouncement of Stalin and his purges, the introduction of more moderate communist policies and foreign policy of peaceful coexistence with the West angered China's leadership. Mao Zedong had been following a strict Stalinistic course, that insisted on the cult of personality as a unifying force of the nation. Disagreements over technical assistance for developing China's nuclear weapons and basic economic policies further alienated the Soviets and the Chinese as opposing forces of communist influence across the globe. As decolonization movements began to pick up speed in the 1960s and many such countries descended into violence, both of the communist powers competed for political control of the various nations or competing factions in ongoing civil war fights.\n\nThe Democratic Republic of Vietnam, that had chosen to ally with the USSR, justified the incursions into neighbouring Laos and Cambodia during the Second Indochinese War with the international nature of communist revolution, where \"Indochina is a single strategic unit, a single battlefield\" and the Vietnam People's Army's pivotal role in bringing this about. However, this internationalism was obstructed by complicated regional historical realities, such as the \"timeless oppositions between the Chinese and the Vietnamese on the one hand and the Vietnamese and the Khmers on the other\". Vietnam interfered into the civil war between the Royal Lao Army and the communist Pathet Lao until the establishment of the Lao People's Democratic Republic and the \"Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation\" signed in July 1977. Permanently stationed troops secured and maintained vital supply routes and strategic staging sites (Ho Chi Minh trail). From 1958 on Northern and Southern Vietnamese combat troops also began to infiltrate the remote jungles of eastern Cambodia where they continued the Ho Chi Minh trail. The Cambodian communist insurgents had joined these sanctuaries during the late 1960s. Although co-operation took place, the Khmer communists did not adopt modern socialist doctrines and eventually allied with China.\n\nAfter the Fall of Saigon and Phnom Penh in April and May 1975 and the subsequent communist takeover in Laos five months later, Indochina was dominated by communist regimes. Armed border clashes between Cambodia and Vietnam soon flared up and escalated as Khmer Rouge forces advanced deep into Vietnamese territory, raided villages and killing hundreds of civilians. Vietnam counter attacked and in December 1978, NVA troops invaded Cambodia, reaching Phnom Penh in January 1979 and arriving at the Thai border in spring 1979.\n\nHowever, as China, the U.S. and the majority of the international community opposed the Vietnamese campaign, the remaining Khmer Rouge managed to permanently settle in the Thai-Cambodian border region. In a United Nations Security Council meeting, seven non-aligned members drafted a resolution for a ceasefire and Vietnamese withdrawal which failed due to opposition from the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia. Thailand tolerated the presence of the Khmer Rouge on its soil as they helped to contain the Vietnamese and Thai domestic guerillas. Over the course of the following decade, the Khmer Rouge received considerable support from Vietnam's enemies and served as a bargaining tool in the Realpolitik of Thailand, China, the ASEAN and the U.S.\n\nKhmer Rouge forces operated from inside Thai territory attacking the pro-Hanoi People's Republic of Kampuchea's government. Similarly Vietnamese forces frequently attacked the Khmer Rouge bases inside Thailand. Eventually Thai and Vietnamese regular troops clashed on several occasions during the following decade.\n\nChina attacked Vietnam in response to Vietnam's occupation of Cambodia, entered northern Vietnam and captured several cities near the border. On March 6, 1979, China declared that their punitive mission had been successful and withdrew from Vietnam. However, both China and Vietnam claimed victory. The fact that Vietnamese forces continued to stay in Cambodia for another decade implies that China's campaign was a strategic failure. On the other hand, the conflict had proven, that China had succeeded in preventing effective Soviet support for its Vietnamese ally.\nAs forces remained mobilized, the Vietnamese Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army engaged in another decade-long series of border disputes and naval clashes that lasted until 1990. These mostly local engagements usually wore out in prolonged stand-offs, as neither side achieved any long-term military gains. By the late 1980s the Vietnamese Communist Party's (VCP) began to adopt its \"Doi Moi\" (renovation) policy and reconsider its China policy in particular. Prolonged hostile relations with China had been recognized as to be detrimental to economic reforms, national security and the regime's survival. A number of political concessions opened the way for the normalization process of 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27917264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27917264", "title": "Théatre du Rêve Expérimental", "text": "Théatre du Rêve Expérimental\n\nThéâtre du Rêve Expérimental (薪传实验剧团) is a Beijing-based performance group. It is dedicated to produce avant-garde performance. Its founder and artistic director is Wang Chong (王翀), an award-winning director and translator. He has studied and worked with directors Lin Zhaohua and Robert Wilson.\n\nSince its founding, Théâtre du Rêve Expérimental has mounted 17 shows and has performed in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, U.S., Canada, U.K., the Netherlands and France. It is one of the most active touring companies from China and the youngest Chinese theatre group to tour internationally.\n\nThe Warfare of Landmine 2.0 won 2013 Festival/Tokyo Award.\n\nThe group does not limit its style to Eastern or Western theatre. Multi-media, performance art, and the harsh reality of Chinese society emerge on the stage altogether, creating a unique experience for the spectators.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9059168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9059168", "title": "Timeline of architectural styles 1750–1900", "text": "Timeline of architectural styles 1750–1900\n"}
{"id": "3742793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3742793", "title": "Time–space compression", "text": "Time–space compression\n\nTime–space compression (also known as space–time compression and time–space distantiation), articulated in 1989 by geographer David Harvey in \"The Condition of Postmodernity\", it refers to anything that impacts time and space. Harvey's idea was rooted in Karl Marx's theory of the \"annihilation of time and space\". A similar idea was proposed by Elmar Alvater in an article in \"PROKLA\" in 1987 translated into English as \"Ecological and Economic Modalities of Time and Space\" and published in \"Capitalism Nature Socialism\", 1(3) in 1989.\n\nTime–space compression often occurs as a result of technological innovations including technology of communication and economics. \n\nAccording to theorists like Paul Virilio, time-space compression is an essential facet of contemporary life: \"Today we are entering a space which is speed-space ... This new other time is that of electronic transmission, of high-tech machines, and therefore, man is present in this sort of time, not via his physical presence, but via programming\" (qtd. in \"Decron\" 71). In \"Vitesse et Politique\", Virilio coins the term dromology to describe \"speed-space.\" Virilio describes velocity as the hidden side of wealth and power, which represents a determining factor concerning societies' structures. Historical eras and political events, out of this perspective, are also speed-ratios. In his view, acceleration destroys space and compresses the time in ways of perceiving reality.\n\nDoreen Massey maintains this idea about time-space compression in her discussion of globalization and its effect on our society. Similar to Virilio, she states that because our world is \"speeding up\" and \"spreading out\", time-space compression is more prevalent than ever as internationalization takes place. Cultures and communities are merged during time-space compression due to rapid growth and change, as \"layers upon layers\" of histories fuse together to shift our ideas of what the identity of a \"place\" should be.\n\nTheorists generally identify two historical periods in which time–space compression occurred; the period from the mid-19th century to the beginnings of the First World War, and the end of the 20th century. In both of these time periods, according to Jon May and Nigel Thrift, \"there occurred a radical restructuring in the nature and experience of both time and space ... both periods saw a significant acceleration in the pace of life concomitant with a dissolution or collapse of traditional spatial co-ordinates\".\n\nFor Moishe Postone, Harvey's treatment of space-time compression and postmodern diversity are as merely reactions to capitalism. Hence Harvey's analysis remains \"extrinsic to the social forms expressed\" by the deep structure concepts of capital, value and the commodity.\n\nFor Postone the postmodern moment is not necessarily just a one-sided effect of the contemporary form of capitalism but can also be seen as having an emancipatory side if it happened to be part of a post-capitalism. And because postmodernism usually neglects its own context of embeddedness it can legitimate capitalism as postmodern, whereas at the level of deep structure it may in fact be more concentrated, with large capitals that, accumulate rather than diverge, and with an expansion of commodification niches with fewer buyers.\n\nPostone asserts one cannot step outside capitalism and declare it a pure evil, or as a one-dimensional badness. For Postone, the emancipatory content of such things as equal distribution or diversity are potentials of capitalism itself in its abundant and diverse productive powers. It misfires however, when a form of life such as postmodernism takes itself for being the whole when in fact it is just another appearance of the same capitalist essence.\n\n\ncategory:postmodern\n"}
