{"id": "58415228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58415228", "title": "1929 Chicago aldermanic elections", "text": "1929 Chicago aldermanic elections\n\nThe 1929 Chicago Aldermanic elections happened on February 26, 1929, to elect the 50 aldermen of the City of Chicago. The elections were non-partisan, and in races without any candidate receiving an absolute majority of votes runoff elections were held on April 2. Held in the middle of the mayor's term, it would be the penultimate such election; four-year terms for aldermen were adopted in 1935, coinciding with the mayoral election that year.\n\nAll told, despite the non-partisan nature of the elections, candidates affiliated with the Republican party won 27 seats and those affiliated with the Democratic party won 23. 11 seats were decided by means of a runoff election, and a Republican candidate won all but one of those elections. Six incumbent aldermen were defeated in the first round, and an additional four fell in the runoffs, all by Republican candidates. Four aldermen, all Democratic, were returned without opposition.\n\nThe main issue of the elections was the influence of Mayor Thompson over the City Government and individual aldermen. Senior US Senator and former Governor Charles Deneen fronted the main slate of anti-Thompson candidates. Many reformers had hoped and even proclaimed that the election would \"wipe...Thompson off the political map.\" The reform-minded \"Chicago Tribune\" and Municipal Voter's League endorsed candidates based on their perceived independence from Thompson.\n\nThe elections were held on a backdrop of violence throughout the city. In particular the race for the so-called \"Bloody Twentieth\" ward had been marked by the murder in April 1928 of African-American reform candidate for committeeman Octavius Granady during the Pineapple Primary. Quite tellingly the \"Daily Chronicle\" in DeKalb reported that \"Another surprise of the election - for the police at least - was that no one was murdered, kidnapped, or slugged,\" although it attributed such lack of violence to the heavy patrol of polling places by police officers that compelled Police Commissioner William Russell to set aside his investigation of the recent Saint Valentine's Day Massacre. It was also subject to some disputes in electoral law, with such sitting aldermen as Sheldon Govier of the 9th ward and Joseph McDonough of the 13th raising accusations of fraudulent petitions against many of their opponents given the 40% increase in the number of candidates from the 1927 elections and some aldermen disputing a filing deadline that sitting aldermen Coyle, Haffa, and Hoellen had missed.\n\nThe \"Daily Chronicle\" asserted that four of the six aldermen defeated in the first round had been Thompson supporters. Nevertheless, the election was generally considered a failure for the reformers. Many of Thompson's closest allies, including his former African-American floor leader Louis Anderson of the 2nd Ward, retained their seats. Particularly devastating was the loss of 20th ward incumbent A.J. Prignano, whom the Municipal Voter's League had extolled as \"the best alderman [the] ward has had in many years,\" to William V. Pacelli, a candidate fronted by the Ellers, who were implicated in Granady's murder. Furthermore, of the nine candidates endorsed by the Tribune and Municipal Voter's League leading up to the runoff elections (not including contests where neither or both candidates were endorsed), only Frank Konkowski of the 31st Ward won his contest. Ultimately, Thompson's rule over the City would continue unabated until the 1931 elections.\n\nChicago mayoral election, 1927\n"}
{"id": "22102994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22102994", "title": "Additional CPF Housing Grant", "text": "Additional CPF Housing Grant\n\nAdditional Housing Grant (abbrev: AHG) is an additional subsidy over and above the regular market subsidy and Central Provident Fund Housing Grant that new and resale HDB (Housing & Development Board) flat buyers in Singapore can enjoy. It offsets the purchase price of a new or resale HDB flat in Singapore, thereby reducing the housing loan a flat buyer needs to take.\n\nThe AHG was first introduced on 3 Mar 2006 to help lower-income citizen families buy their first HDB flat. Under the AHG, households earning below the monthly income ceiling can qualify for an additional subsidy (refer table). The AHG has since undergone two enhancements. The first was in Aug 2007, and the second enhancement was on 6 Feb 2009.\n\nThe latest increase in income ceiling from S$4,000 to S$5,000 increases the coverage of the AHG from 50 to 60 percent of resident households. In addition, the condition of continuous employment preceding the flat application is reduced from two years to one year.\n\nThe enhanced AHG is applicable to the purchase of flats as follows: \nThe AHG will only be given once to each eligible family. As with the current scheme, the enhanced grant is given to Singapore Citizen only (not Singapore Permanent Residence spouse or an undischarged bankrupt), and can only be used as capital payment for the flat purchase. The balance, if any, must be used to reduce the mortgage loan before a housing loan from HDB can be granted.\n\nIn addition to the current eligibility conditions to buy a new flat and the conditions of income ceiling and continuous employment, the family will have also to meet the following eligibility conditions to apply for the AHG:\n\nThe applicant must form a family comprising the applicant and his/her:\n\nThe applicant and the other essential family members listed in the application for purchase of the flat: \n\nThe recipients of the housing grant must not be an undischarged bankrupt.\n\nThe AHG is graduated to allow families with lower income to enjoy a higher grant. The details of the enhanced grant are as follows:\n\nThe enhanced AHG will make owning an HDB home within easier reach, especially for the lower-income. It helps to reduce the housing loan required for the purchase of the flat.\n\nFor instance, a family with a monthly household income of S$1,500 can comfortably own a new two-room HDB flat priced at S$90,000 based on the average selling price. With the help of the maximum AHG quantum of S$40,000, they only have a monthly mortgage instalment of about S$200. This is about 13 percent of the monthly income and can be serviced entirely from monthly CPF contributions.\n\nTo date, the AHG scheme has disbursed about S$140 million to help about 10,000 families buy their first flat. This revision is expected to benefit an additional 2,700 first-timer homebuyers each year, bringing the total benefiting households to about 8,000 per year. The beneficiaries of the AHG have also extended beyond the lower income to the middle-income families. Overall, it will almost double the estimated cost of the AHG scheme to the Singapore Government to about S$150 million per year.\n"}
{"id": "24150012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24150012", "title": "Alberta Health Insurance Act (1935)", "text": "Alberta Health Insurance Act (1935)\n\nThe Alberta Health Insurance Act was an act passed by the Government of Alberta in February 1935. It was the first Canadian health insurance act to provide some public funding for medical services, and as such is considered to be an early step toward the provision of medicare in Canada.\n\nIn 1932, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta prepared a brief for a commission on health care reform that had been established by the Government of Alberta. The brief was presented by Albert Ernest Archer, an early supporter of public health care in Canada. The commission subsequently established a prepaid health insurance program for rural areas, and an employer/employee program for urban centres, with the province paying two-ninths of the total costs.\n\nThe Alberta Health Insurance Act of 1934 was first proposed by the United Farmers of Alberta (UFA). The legislation proposed to provide health care to the every province resident at an annual cost of $14.50 per person (Canadian Dollars). However, the Act was unable to pass before the UFA was defeated out of office by the Social Credit Party. The plan would require health care providers to provide specific services for the insured at no extra cost. These services included \"full-time public health service\", \"complete medical service\" (including major and minor surgery and obstetrics), \"drugs and surgical appliances\" if prescribed, limited \"dental service\", \"private nursing service\" (under special circumstances) and \"hospitalization\" (x-rays, operating room, lab services, etc.). Although this plan was not enacted, later in the 1940s and 50s, a national health care system became gradually more prevalent among provinces. Hospital insurance would provide federal funds to provinces that would implement a universal hospital insurance plan. The full implementation of such programs slowly developed and in 1969 Alberta adopted a universal health insurance program.\n\nCanadian health policies are co-financed by the federal government and provincial/territorial programs. Health care providers are mostly private, however, universal programs are implemented by the provincial government. The federal government's role is not only limited to financing, but it also regulates medical products such as pharmaceuticals, as well as funding medical research. However, the provincial government seem to play a bigger and more direct role as 47% of health care spending in Canada is provided for by them while 22% is provided for by federal transfers. With this large amount of provincial government spending in health care and other areas, the provincial government plays a large role in Canadian governing. Provincial government expenditure seems to be increasing and this may be attributed to the change in age distribution in Canada as this can cause a greater demand for more welfare in education and health care systems.\n\nThe Alberta Health Insurance Plan was revised by the year 2000. Statues of the updated plan included more details and laws specific to payment. It established that \"extra billing\" was not permitted by physicians or dentists; this mean they could not charge or collect money from a patient that was in addition to what the Minister covered. Many argue that over time health care has become more decentralized from national government and more focused onto local governments. Reay and Hinings contend that after 1994 with the establishment of Regional Health Authorities there is a greater amount of power not only provincial governments but also regional governments. By establishing these specialized fields to facilitate, it took a more business-like method. Although Canadian health care is highly prioritized when it comes to government spending, the total costs of health care administration is significantly less than the United States. \"In the United States, health care administration cost $294.3 billion, or $1,059 per capita (Table 1). In Canada, health care administration cost $9.4 billion, or $307 per capita\".\n\nThe United Farmers of Alberta (UFA) government passed the commission's recommendations as the Alberta Health Insurance Act in February 1935. The party subsequently lost the 1935 provincial election, however, and the new government did not follow through with the insurance plan.\n\nIn 1948, the Alberta government passed legislation for a medical insurance program. This led to the establishment of Medical Services (Alberta), which was superseded by Canada's national medicare program in 1969.\n"}
{"id": "9338058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9338058", "title": "Andy Harris (politician)", "text": "Andy Harris (politician)\n\nAndrew Peter Harris (born January 25, 1957) is an American politician and physician who has been the U.S. Representative for since 2011. He is a member of the Republican Party and currently the only Republican member of Maryland's congressional delegation. Harris previously served in the Maryland Senate.\n\nHarris's father was Zoltán Harris, an anesthesiologist who was born in Miskolc, Hungary, in 1911 and emigrated to the United States in 1950; his mother, Irene, was born in Poland. He grew up in Queens, New York, and attended Regis High School in Manhattan.\n\nHarris earned his B.S. in biology (1977) and his M.D. (1980) from The Johns Hopkins University. The University's Bloomberg School of Hygiene and Public Health conferred the M.H.S. in 1995 in Health policy and management and also Health Finance & Management.\n\nHarris served in the Navy Medical Corps and the U.S. Naval Reserve as a lieutenant commander on active duty during Operation Desert Storm and currently serves as a commander. He has worked as an anesthesiologist, as an associate professor of anesthesiology and critical care medicine, and as chief of obstetric anesthesiology at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. Harris also served as commanding officer for the Johns Hopkins Naval Reserve Medical Unit from 1989 to 1992.\n\nHarris was first elected to the Maryland Senate in 1998 for District 9 for Baltimore County. He defeated his predecessor, Minority Leader F. Vernon Boozer, in the 1998 primary election. A major factor in the race was Boozer's role in derailing an attempt to ban partial-birth abortion a year earlier; the bill's sponsor, fellow state senator Larry Haines, supported Harris's primary bid. In the general election he defeated Democratic challenger Anthony O. Blades.\n\nHis district was later redrawn to be District 7, representing Baltimore County and Harford County, succeeding Norman Stone. He defeated Democratic challenger Diane DeCarlo in the general election in 2002, and from 2003 to 2006 served as the minority whip. In 2006 he won re-election, this time defeating Patricia A. Foerster. He was succeeded by J. B. Jennings.\n\nHarris defeated incumbent Republican Wayne Gilchrest and State Senator E.J. Pipkin in the Republican primary for Maryland's 1st congressional district. Harris ran well to the right of Gilchrest, one of the leading moderate Republicans in the House. He explained that he was upset with Gilchrest's decision to support a Democratic bill setting a timetable for troop withdrawal from Iraq and suspected that many of his constituents also felt that way. He was endorsed by the Club for Growth, which raised nearly $250,000 for him, and by former governor Bob Ehrlich, seven of 10 state senators who represent parts of the district, and House Minority Leader Anthony O'Donnell. His general election opponent Frank Kratovil attacked the Club for Growth's policies, and Harris for having its support. Gilchrest endorsed Kratovil for the general election.\n\nThe November election was expected to be very close, even though the 1st is considered to be very Republican on paper. This was partly due to the district's geography. Harris is from the Baltimore suburbs, while Kratovil was from the Eastern Shore, which is home to half the district's population. On election night, Kratovil led Harris by 915 votes. After two rounds of counting absentee ballots, Kratovil's lead grew to 2,000 votes. Forecasting that it would be nearly impossible for Harris to close the gap, most media outlets declared Kratovil the winner on the night of November 7. Harris finally conceded on November 11. While Harris won the Baltimore suburbs handily, it was not enough to overcome his deficit on the Eastern Shore. John McCain won this district by 19 points, his best showing in the state.\n\nHarris ran again in the 1st District in 2010. He defeated Rob Fisher, a conservative businessman, in the primary.\n\nHarris's primary win set up a rematch against Kratovil. Libertarian Richard James Davis and Independent Jack Wilson also ran. In the November 2 general election, the district reverted to form, and Harris defeated Kratovil by 14 percent.\n\nThe National Journal's Cook Political Report named Harris one of the top 10 Republicans most vulnerable to redistricting in 2012, noting that Maryland Democrats could redraw Harris's home in Cockeysville out of the 1st. Instead, Roscoe Bartlett's district was redrawn so as to beat him. Harris was a beneficiary of this remap, as the reconfigured 1st included Republican-leaning portions of Harford and Baltimore counties that had previously been in Bartlett's 6th district, making this already strongly Republican district even more so.\n\nHarris skated to a second term, defeating Democratic challenger Wendy Rosen with 67 percent of the vote. Rosen had withdrawn from the race after being confronted with evidence that she'd voted in both Maryland and Florida in the 2006 and 2008 elections. Rosen had property in Florida, and Maryland law allowed property owners to vote in local elections even if they live elsewhere. However, her Florida voting registration reportedly also gave her access to state and federal elections there, something which was not allowed by Maryland law. By the time she pulled out, however, ballots had already been printed. John LaFerla, who had narrowly lost to Rosen in the primary, was endorsed as Rosen's replacement, but could only be a write-in.\n\nHarris defeated Democrat Bill Tilghman for a third term, taking over 70 percent of the vote—his best showing as a state or federal legislator.\n\nHarris ran for reelection in 2016. In the Republican primary, he faced three challengers and won 78.4 percent of the vote. Former Maryland state delegates member Mike Smigiel came in second place with 10.8 percent of the vote. Smigiel ran because he opposed Harris' strident opposition to marijuana decriminalization in the District of Columbia.\n\nIn the general election, Harris won another term with 229,135 votes (67.8%), defeating Democratic nominee Joe Werner, a \"little-known Harford County attorney and perennial candidate\" who received 94,776 votes (28%). Libertarian candidate Matt Beers received 14,207 votes (4.2%). In February 2016, Harris was the first congressman to endorse candidate Ben Carson for the Republican nomination for president. Carson dropped out two weeks later following a poor performance in the Super Tuesday I March 1, 2016 primaries.\n\nWhile Harris was running for reelection, the Washington Post ran a story accusing him of ethics violations. \"In a letter to the Office of Congressional Ethics, Maryland Democratic Party Chair Kathleen Matthews said Harris, the sole Republican on Maryland’s congressional delegation, may have violated ethics rules requiring members to report the source of spousal income and assets.\n\n“It appears Andy Harris paid his wife thousands of dollars from his campaign, then tried to hide it from government ethics regulators,” Matthews said in a statement.\n\nThe Harris campaign said the omission was a mistake and the congressman amended his filing once he became aware of the error.\"\n\nHarris's prominence as a medical doctor in opposition to government-run health care made him a lightning rod for attacks by supporters of the 2010 health care legislation. At a closed-door employee benefits briefing for new congressmen during the November 2010 freshman orientation, Harris was surprised to learn that the Federal employee health benefit plan would leave the new congressmen and their staffers without coverage until the following pay period, 28 days after inauguration. Concerned about this gap in coverage, he asked whether new government employees could purchase temporary coverage to fill this gap. \"This is the only employer I've ever worked for where you don't get coverage the first day you are employed,\" he said through his spokeswoman, Anna Nix. Through a spokesman, his defeated opponent, Frank Kratovil, seized upon this dialogue, characterizing the question as a \"demand\" for special treatment and for access to the benefits he opposed in the new law. Furthermore, \"Harris then asked if he could purchase insurance from the government to cover the gap,\" added an aide, who was struck by the similarity to Harris's request and the public option he denounced as a gateway to socialized medicine.\n\nOn October 16, 2013, Harris voted against the motion to end the government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling.\n\nHarris has defended Hungarian leader Viktor Orbán, an ally of Vladimir Putin who has pledged to turn his country into an \"illiberal democracy\". Harris decried the State Departments' efforts to support free and independent media in the country.\n\nIn 2014, Harris was the leading congressional critic of marijuana decriminalization in the District of Columbia bill, and led efforts in Congress to block decriminalization from taking effect. Harris's amendment led to a call from D.C. Mayor Vincent Gray to boycott tourism to Rep. Harris's district and the boycott of Maryland's 1st District, as well as an online campaign requesting that D.C. area businesses refuse him service at their establishments. In November 2014, D.C. residents overwhelmingly voted in favor of legalizing recreational cannabis for adults with 68% in favor. Despite this, Harris said he would use \"all resources available to a member of Congress to stop this action\". On December 9, 2014, congressional leaders announced a deal on a spending bill that included language that will prohibit the D.C. referendum from taking effect. Harris said that \"the Constitution gives Congress the ultimate oversight about what happens in the federal district.\" Harris believes that cannabis is a gateway drug and has no proven medicinal use.\n\nThe online publication wrote that one of Harris' campaign contributors had a financial interest in keeping marijuana illegal. Harris' third largest campaign donor is the pharmaceutical corporation Emergent BioSolutions, based in Rockville, Maryland. One of Emergent's products is epsil, \"a fast-acting treatment that reduces the pain associated with oral mucositis,\" which is a common complication of chemotherapy from cancer treatment. ATTN: wrote that according to medical studies, marijuana can reduce the adverse effects of chemotherapy in cancer patients, and substitute for the more dangerous opioids. In states where medical marijuana has been legalized, the number of pharmaceutical pain killers prescribed has dropped significantly.\n\nIn 2016, Harris opposed legislation to rename a North Carolina post office in honor of poet Maya Angelou. Harris said that her support for communism disqualified her for the honor. \"She supported the Communist revolution in Cuba, and my parents escaped a communist country,\" Harris explained.\n\nDuring the 2017 special election to fill the vacated Senate seat of Jeff Sessions, Harris endorsed Roy Moore in his successful bid to defeat incumbent Sen. Luther Strange. Following the news of Moore's sexual abuse scandal, Harris did not withdraw his endorsement, saying that he will continue to support Moore unless the allegations were proven to be true.\n\nHarris does not support net neutrality, characterizing the FCC vote to remove net neutrality as \"eliminating burdensome and unnecessary regulations.\"\n\n\nIn October 2015, Harris was named to serve on the Select Investigative Panel on Planned Parenthood.\n\n\n\nHarris was married for 30 years to Sylvia \"Cookie\" Harris, who died of a heart attack suddenly on August 28, 2014. He and Mrs. Harris have five children. Harris resides in Cockeysville, Maryland, and considered himself a \"citizen-legislator,\" having maintained his medical practice while in the State Senate.\nHe remarried in July 2017 to Nicole Beus. \nAndy Harris has been an active member in the community as a member of the Knights of Columbus, an officer in the Thornleigh Neighborhood Improvement Association (vice-president, 1984–85; president, 1985–86), a member of the Board of Directors of the Sherwood Community Association, 1987–91, and served as Vice President of St. Joseph's School Home-School Association from 1992 to 1994. Also, he has been on the Board of Directors of the Maryland Leadership Council, 1995–98, a member of the North Central Republican Club (treasurer, 1997–98; vice-president, 1998), and finally as a Delegate to the Republican Party National Convention, 2004. Harris has received the Dr. Henry P. and M. Page Laughlin Distinguished Public Officer Award from the Medical and Chirurgical Faculty of Maryland in 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23292369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23292369", "title": "Arabic Toilers' Movement", "text": "Arabic Toilers' Movement\n\nThe Arabic Toilers' Movement () was a political party in Iraq. It was founded in 1962, by a group that broke away from the Arab Socialist Baath Party who had adopted a Marxist-Leninist political line. After November 18, 1964, the Arabic Toilers' Movement began seeking cooperation with other Iraqi political forces as well as Dr. George Habash. The organization began cooperating with the Arab Socialist Union in the same year.\n\nThe organization did not last long, as several of its founders left and joined other political parties.\n"}
{"id": "5751459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5751459", "title": "Arvid Gustavsson, Lord of Vik", "text": "Arvid Gustavsson, Lord of Vik\n\nArvid Gustavsson, Lord of Vik (died c. 1379/1380) was a medieval Swedish magnate and justiciar of Finland. His principal seat was his manor of Vik in Balingsta, Uppland. Through his paternal grandmother Ramborg Israelsdotter And, younger Arvid descended from the And family. His grandfather Arvid Gustavsson had the same name and coat of arms.\n\nYounger Arvid Gustavsson's father was Gustav Arvidsson, knight and member of the Privy Council of Sweden, justiciar of Södermanland, whose seat probably already was Vik. Arvid's mother probably (but not certainly, because some history gives him as son of a second wife of his father, of whose existence and name there are however no contemporary evidence) was Kristina Petersdotter of the \"tre rutor\" family, daughter of Birgitta Jonsdotter, possibly of the Aspenäs family, and certainly widow of Erengisle Näskonungsson, Lord High Constable of Sweden.\n\nThe younger Arvid Gustafsson was member of the Privy Council of Sweden from 1362, and from 1366 lawspeaker of Finland, Swedish province.\n\nHis wife was Helena Magnusdotter, daughter of Birgitta Knutsdotter of the Algotssöner family and Magnus Gislason, PC, Lord of Aspnäs, who also bore spar as his Coat of Arms, and is therefore also dubbed as \"Sparre\" (Sparre of Aspnäs) in genealogies. Magnus Gislason's line and Gustav/Arvid line may well have been of the same origin, but there exists no evidence of that.\n\nHelena and Arvid inherited the manor of Örby when her parents' inheritance was divided between her and her full sister (whose family received Aspnäs). Her half-sister had been the first wife of Charles Ulvsson, Lord of Tofta, thus a brother-in-law of Arvid.\n\nArvid and Helena had an only surviving child, daughter Margareta Arvidsdotter (died on 9 April 1415), who became their heiress. Margareta married sir Ture Bengtsson (of the Bielke, died 20 November 1414), PC, justiciar of Uppland. Their descendants inherited Vik, Örby etc., a veritable bunch of properties in Uppland, which ultimately ended to their descendants the Vasa, and its scion, the king Gustav I.\n\nJusticiar Arvid died either in 1379 or 1380. His father's first name was given to his 7th-generation descendant who became Gustav I of Sweden and because of whom, the name Gustav has since remained in common names of Swedish royal families.\n\n"}
{"id": "2855844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2855844", "title": "Building superintendent", "text": "Building superintendent\n\nA building superintendent or building supervisor (often shortened to super) is a term used in the United States and Canada to refer to a manager responsible for repair and maintenance in a residential building. They are the first point of contact for residents of the building.\n\nThey are expected to take care of minor issues and repairs, such as small leaks or blockages, the heating, and the security. For larger jobs and major repairs, they will organize, call, and supervise the work of the contractors. Building superintendents often get discounts in their rent, free rent, or free rent plus a salary in exchange for their services. The amount of compensation they receive is usually proportional to the size of the building.\n\nAlthough very common in large cities in the United States and Canada, the job title is not often used in the rest of the world. Other common titles for this job include simply \"super\", \"resident manager\", \"apartment manager\", and \"caretaker\".\n\nThe superintendent or resident manager may report to the landlord or a property manager for any problem outside his or her control.\n\n"}
{"id": "44379667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44379667", "title": "Collective leadership", "text": "Collective leadership\n\nCollective leadership is a distribution of power within an organisational structure. It is considered an ideal form of ruling a communist party, both within and outside a socialist state. \n\nCollective leadership in China is generally considered to have begun with Deng Xiaoping in the 1970s, who tried to encourage the Politburo Standing Committee to rule by consensus in order to prevent the authoritarianism of Maoist rule. Jiang Zemin formally established himself as the \"first among equals\". This era of collective leadership has been said to end with Xi Jinping, following the abolition of term limits in 2018 under his tenure.\n\nCurrently, the central authority of the Chinese government is concentrated in the Politburo Standing Committee, which is composed of 7-members of the Communist Party of China and headed by the General Secretary of the Central Committee.\n\nIn Vietnam, when the country was ruled by Lê Duẩn, collective leadership involved powers being distributed from the office of General Secretary of the Communist Party and shared with the Politburo Standing Committee while still retaining one ruler. \n\nNowadays, in Vietnam there is not one paramount leader, and power is shared by the party General Secretary, President and the Prime Minister along with collegial bodies such as the Politburo, Secretariat and the Central Committee.\n\nCollective leadership (, ') or Collectivity of leadership (, '), was considered an ideal form of governance in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR). Its main task was to distribute powers and functions among the Politburo, the Central Committee, and the Council of Ministers to hinder any attempts to create a one-man dominance over the Soviet political system by a Soviet leader, such as that seen under Joseph Stalin's rule. On the national level, the heart of the collective leadership was officially the Central Committee of the Communist Party, but in practice, was the Politburo. Collective leadership is characterized by limiting the powers of the General Secretary and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers as related to other offices by enhancing the powers of collective bodies, such as the Politburo.\n\nLenin was, according to Soviet literature, the perfect example of a leader ruling in favour of the collective. Stalin also embodied this style of ruling, with most major policy decisions involving lengthy discussion and debate in the politburo and/or central commmittee; after his death in 1953, Nikita Khrushchev accused Stalin of one-man dominance, leading to controversy surrounding the period of his rule. At the 20th Party Congress, Stalin's reign was criticized by Khrushchev as a \"personality cult\". As Stalin's successor, Khrushchev supported the ideal of collective leadership but increasingly ruled in an autocratic fashion, his anti-Stalin accusations followed by much the same behaviour which led to accusations of hypocrisy. In 1964, Khrushchev was ousted and replaced by Leonid Brezhnev as First Secretary and by Alexei Kosygin as Premier. Collective leadership was strengthened during the Brezhnev years and the later reigns of Yuri Andropov and Konstantin Chernenko. Mikhail Gorbachev's reforms helped spawn factionalism within the Soviet leadership, and members of Gorbachev's faction openly disagreed with him on key issues. The factions usually disagreed on how little or how much reform was needed to rejuvenate the Soviet system.\n\nGreen and other ecosocialist parties often practice collective leadership, either through male and female co-leaders or through several co-spokespersons. This practice is often justified by the Green movement's emphasis on consensus decision making and gender balance. \n\n"}
{"id": "2578453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2578453", "title": "Colonial charters in the Thirteen Colonies", "text": "Colonial charters in the Thirteen Colonies\n\nA charter is a document that gave colonies the legal rights to exist. \nA charter is a document, bestowing certain rights on a town, city, university or an institution. \nColonial Charters were empowered when the king gave a grant of exclusive powers for the governance of land to proprietors or a settlement company. The charters defined the relationship of the colony to the mother country, free from involvement from the Crown. For the trading companies, charters vested the powers of government in the company in England. The officers would determine the administration, laws, and ordinances for the colony, but only as conforming to the laws of England. Proprietary charters gave governing authority to the proprietor, who determined the form of government, chose the officers, and made laws, subject to the advice and consent of the freemen. All colonial charters guaranteed to the colonists the vague rights and privileges of Englishmen, which would later cause trouble during the revolutionary era. In the second half of the seventeenth century, the Crown looked upon charters as obstacles to colonial control, substituting the royal province for corporations and proprietary governments.\n\nThe Virginia and Massachusetts charters were given to business corporations. Regular meetings of company officers and stockholders were the only governmental institutions required. The Virginia charter, issued in 1606, and revised in 1609 and 1612, was revoked upon bankruptcy of the sponsoring and organizing Virginia Company of London in 1624. The second Colonial Charter was granted to Massachusetts Bay in 1629, settling at Boston and Salem, a decade after the first \"New Englanders\" at Plymouth Colony further south towards Cape Cod. In 1684, the Chancery Court in England voided the charter and changed it to a royal colony. Charles II placed Massachusetts under the authority of the unified Dominion of New England in 1685. After William III and Mary II had ascended to the thrones of England, Scotland and Ireland, in addition to the stewardship of the Dutch Republic, they issued Massachusetts Bay a new liberal charter in 1691.\n\nCharles II granted Connecticut its charter in 1662 with the right of self-government. When James II ascended the throne in 1685, he tried to revoke the Connecticut charter and sent Sir Edmund Andros to receive it for the Crown. Captain Joseph Wadsworth spirited the precious document out a window and stole the charter and hid it in a hollow oak tree, the \"Charter Oak,\" until James was overthrown. Connecticut temporarily lost the right of self-government under the unification of the several colonies into the Dominion of New England in 1687, but it was reinstated in 1689. The last charter by Charles II was issued to Rhode Island in 1663. Connecticut and Rhode Island attained colonial charters as already established colonies that allowed them to elect their own governors.\n\nAs a result of political upheavals, especially after the three English Civil Wars in the 1640s, and the later \"Glorious Revolution\" of 1688 with their Roman Catholic--Protestant/Anglican conflicts which also transformed into struggles between the King and Parliament. As these conflicts traveled across the Atlantic Ocean, most colonies eventually surrendered their charters to the Crown by 1763 and became royal colonies as the King and his Ministers asserted more centralized control of their previously neglected and autonomous Thirteen Colonies. By the late 1600s, the colonial Maryland, had its Proprietary Charter to the Lords Baltimore revoked and had become a royal colony with its Governor of Maryland appointed by the Monarch with the advice of his Ministers and the Colonial Offices and Board of Trade of members from Parliament. By 1776, when the Pennsylvania and its lower Delaware Bay counties remained proprietary colonies under a charter originally granted to William Penn and his heirs. The Province of Connecticut and the Province of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations continued as corporation colonies under charters, and Massachusetts was governed as a royal province while operating under a charter after the unifying of the older \"Massachusetts Bay\" colony at Boston and the \"first landing\" colony, Plymouth Colony at Plymouth, Massachusetts, with its famous \"Mayflower Compact\" from 1620. Further south, the Provinces of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia to the undefined border with Spanish Florida, all had their original charters dismissed with different opinions about the role and powers and taxing authority between the Royal Governors and their increasingly restless and defiant colonial Assemblies. The Royal Authority reasserted itself and becoming governed more directly from London with increasing friction as the 18th Century progressed to its revolutionary climax.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27617649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27617649", "title": "Digital strategy manager", "text": "Digital strategy manager\n\nA digital strategy manager is an executive position. This position is based on a unique set of technological knowledge which directs all departments for digital industry growth. A digital strategy manager collaborates with all marketing, business development, and organizational management teams and uses leadership skills to build strategic partnerships.\n\nThis position focuses specifically on a corporation’s digital brand by leading, building and maintaining their presence in the digital world. Accountable for driving the prioritization of the technology infrastructure for digital advertising continuity across all multi-media platforms. Manages all related IT departments and functions as a conduit between digital presence and all advertising and/or marketing activities. Consults with all internal directors strategizing their specific marketing needs incorporating the digital technology structure.\n\n"}
{"id": "50440369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50440369", "title": "Direct colonial rule", "text": "Direct colonial rule\n\nDirect colonial rule is a form of colonialism that involves the establishment of a centralized foreign authority within a territory, which is run by colonial officials. According to Michael W. Doyle of Harvard University, in a system of direct rule, the native population is excluded from all but the lowest level of the colonial government. Ugandan academic Mahmood Mamdani classifies direct rule as centralized despotism: a system where natives were not considered citizens.\n\nThe opposite of direct colonial rule is indirect rule, which integrates pre-established local elites and native institutions into the administration of the colonial government.\n\n"}
{"id": "4090507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4090507", "title": "Disarm Bush T-Shirts", "text": "Disarm Bush T-Shirts\n\nDisarm Bush T-Shirts is a for-profit political activism campaign created in 2004 in the run-up to the American Presidential election, in which the incumbent George W. Bush ultimately defeated challenger John Kerry. Disarm Bush effectively mobilized opposition to the Republican incumbent in a number of large metropolitan population centers, in which their guerrilla t-shirt vending methods were most successful. Through 2005, the organization had sold no fewer than 25,000 t-shirts with their universally recognizable anti-Bush logo and registered over 5,000 citizens to vote.\n\nFounded by Ysiad Ferreiras in Union Square in lower Manhattan, the group expanded to include hundreds of for-profit activists who spread the group's message at both national political conventions in 2004 and at speeches across the country. The shirts were especially effective in mobilizing political activity on college campuses. Ben Piven became the director of PR, political activism, and national distribution, while Marty Taylor took charge of Disarm Bush's internet campaign. \n\nEventually popularized by the Roots, Yeah Yeah Yeahs, and The Flaming Lips, the Disarm Bush logo became a simple but powerful expression of disapproval of the incumbent's performance in office. The Republican National Convention, which lasted from August 30 to September 2, saw the emergence of hundreds of similar t-shirt campaigns in which vendors attempted to spread their political dissent via the estimated 500,000 marchers who converged upon New York City to protest the presence of Republicans in a largely Democratic Party urban area. The 2004 Republican National Convention protest activity created an unprecedented level of political mobilization and also posed security problems.\nDisarm Bush photos\n"}
{"id": "51131404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51131404", "title": "Dynamic Intelligent Currency Encryption", "text": "Dynamic Intelligent Currency Encryption\n\nDynamic Intelligent Currency Encryption (DICE) is an AI-controlled security technology, which devaluates banknotes and assets remotely that have been stolen or are illegal. The cash security system that is based on identifiable banknotes, was invented and first introduced in 2014 by AI-specialised British-Austrian technology company EDAQS.\nThe system claims that its RFID-equipped banknotes and other securities are registered to a centralized and safe system and can be considered as unforgeable, which contributes to solve cash-related problems and helps in the fight against the black economy, crime and terrorism.\nOne of the main goals of DICE is that the whole banking and retail sector, as well as all entities with regular cash circulation will participate in this passively controlled cash system.\nIn a second note, the DICE procedure is meant to be an alternative to the abolition of cash by offering all benefits of a cashless economy, while driving down the global crime of violently obtaining cash.\nSimilar to the IBNS, registered DICE banknotes that have been neutralized, cannot be brought back into circulation and can be directly linked to a crime related issue.\n\nThe concept relies on the registration of banknotes through connected readers called DICE clouds.\nA fast registration of the banknote through the DICE-cloud device, which does not influence the day-to-day business in terms of time delay, offers a full protection of the registered cash assets for the DICE user.\nDuring the registration-procedure, the DICE user will be informed about the legitimacy of the incoming banknote and warned, whether the banknote is part of a crime, is forged or has been degraded for a certain reason.\nOnce the banknote has been successfully assigned to the user’s account, a robbery but also a destruction of the banknote through other catastrophes, such as a fire or a flood, would result in an executive remote devaluation of the notes. The victim would receive new banknotes.\nDICE is also considered as an effective technology to limit the circulation of black money and combat the black economy. \n\nThe basic process consists of an identifiable banknote, which carries the identification module (Machine Readable Code and microRFID-chip), a blockchain-enabled cloud device, which scans, reads and registers the banknotes as well as a composition of AI-driven automated systems that are based on several sub-systems. \nThe mechanism of the systems is based on a proprietary consortium blockchain that provides a centralized registry of banknotes (CEDIRE hyperledger), a digital dye pack system that deactivates or re-activates illegal and degraded banknotes remotely (RENODE) and in the further course the DICE Automated Security Unit, whose task is to monitor the system’s functionality.\n\nDICE banknotes use a specifically designed microchip that was developed for high security application and is perfectly suited for paper currencies, as the chip will not be damaged by any harsh handling in daily use as well as during the Intaglio process.\nEDAQS claims that the so-called RFIT microchip, which is developed by Australian partner RFIT Limited, is the most secure and robust development in RFID tagging technology to date as well as the smallest On Chip Antenna (OCA) UHF RFID tag in the world. \nWith an overall size of only 0.45mm x 0.45mm x 0.2mm, the patented technology places the antenna directly onto the chip silicon.\nEvery other aspect of the RFIT chip conforms to Electronic Product Code (EPC) Class 1, Gen2 ISO 18000-6C. As both the EPC and Data areas are programmable, the RFIT inlay offers\nindividualized secure electronic tracking. Requiring a specially designed Near Field Antenna (NFA) to activate the passive UHF RFIT tag, the read range is limited up to 3mm, which in itself provides a security feature when compared to standard RFID tags. As an additional level of security, a normal UHF RFID reader is not able to activate and read the tag.\n\nThe DICE banknote system would allow central and national banks to supervise and analyze the entire registered cash circulation.\nWhile this is one of the main reasons that have caused the trend for national banks to favor a cashless economy, it is also a serious issue in terms of privacy. \nEDAQS affirmed that the citizen’s privacy rights are not being touched with their system and that anonymous circulation data would open a wide range of new development models not only for the governments and national banks, but also for economic analyses and stability research.\nThe public response on the introduction of DICE ranged from a tremendous fear about chip-equipped banknotes to a strong support in improving public safety. \nThe Keesing Journal, an opinion leading publication in the document security industry, called DICE-equipped banknotes as the \"banknote of the future\", despite harsh critics from different political parties, including the German and Austrian Pirates Party .\n\nIn another note, the DICE benefits cover and solve almost all cash-related issues that are seen by governments to be a motivation for the progressive abolition of cash.\n\n"}
{"id": "152800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152800", "title": "Economic rationalism", "text": "Economic rationalism\n\nEconomic rationalism is an Australian term often used in the discussion of macroeconomic policy, applicable to the economic policy of many governments around the world, in particular during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nEconomic rationalists tend to favour neoliberal policies: deregulation, a free market economy, privatisation of state-owned industries, lower direct taxation and higher indirect taxation, and a reduction of the size of the welfare state. Near-equivalents include Rogernomics (NZ), Blairism (UK), and the Washington Consensus. To a large extent the term merely means economic liberalism, also called neoliberalism. However, the term was also used to describe advocates of market-oriented reform within the Australian Labor Party, whose position was closer to what has become known as the 'Third Way'.\n\nAs it is a phrase used by Max Weber in \"The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism\" the highest likelihood is the term was drawn from there and its modern denotations can all be accommodated within Weber's usage. Its recent usage arose independently in Australia, and was derived from the phrase \"economically rational\", used as a favourable description of market-oriented economic policies. Its first appearances in print were in the early 1970s, under the Whitlam government, and it was almost invariably used in a favourable sense until the late 1980s.\n\nThe now dominant negative use came into widespread use during the 1990 recession, and was popularised by a best-selling book \"Economic Rationalism in Canberra\" by Michael Pusey.\n\nThe term \"economic rationalism\" is commonly used in criticism of free-market economic policies as amoral or asocial. In this context, it may be summarised as \"the view that commercial activity... represents a sphere of activity in which moral considerations, beyond the rule of business probity dictated by enlightened self-interest, have no role to play\" (Quiggin 1997).\n\nThe well-known statement of Margaret Thatcher, \"There is no such thing as society. There are individuals, and there are families,\" is often quoted in that context, but the interpretation of that statement is disputed.\n\nSupporters of economic rationalism have presented two kinds of responses to criticisms such as those quoted above. Some have denied that such criticisms are accurate and claim that the term refers only to rational policy formulation based on sound economic analysis, and it does not preclude government intervention aimed at correcting market failure, income redistribution etc.\n\nOthers have accepted the accuracy of the description but have argued that the adoption of radical free-market policies is both inevitable and desirable. Another statement by Thatcher, \"there is no alternative\", is frequently cited in that context.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "366681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366681", "title": "Ephrata Cloister", "text": "Ephrata Cloister\n\nThe Ephrata Cloister or Ephrata Community was a religious community, established in 1732 by Johann Conrad Beissel at Ephrata, in what is now Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. The grounds of the community are now owned by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and are administered by the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission.\n\nMarie Kachel Bucher, the last surviving resident of the Ephrata Cloister, died on July 27, 2008, at the age of 98.\n\nThe community was descended from the pietistic Schwarzenau Brethren movement of Alexander Mack of Schwarzenau in Germany. The first schism from the general body occurred in 1728—the Seventh Day Dunkers, whose distinctive principle was that the seventh day was the true Sabbath.\n\nIn 1732, Beissel arrived at the banks of Cocalico Creek in Lancaster County. Around this charismatic leader a semi-monastic community (the Camp of the Solitary) with a convent (the Sister House) and a monastery (the Brother House) was established, called \"Ephrata\". The members of the order were celibate. In addition to celibacy, the members believed in strict interpretation of the Bible, and self-discipline. Members were required to sleep on wooden benches wide, with wooden blocks for pillows. They slept six hours per night, from 9 P.M. to midnight, and from 2 A.M. until 5 A.M., with a two-hour break to \"watch\" for the coming of Christ. They ate one small vegetarian meal a day. The only time the followers of Beissel were permitted to eat meat was during the celebration of communion when lamb was served. The members of the cloister spent much time at work or praying privately. Services every Saturday were led by Beissel, often being several hours long.\n\nDuring the time that this group formed, there was a hint of dissatisfied intellectualism of churches. Many wanted to be away from state established churches. Strict religious lives caused these brothers and sisters to come together to worship God in other ways. Instead of practicing their religion, they applied it by helping others to become more spiritual and celibate.\n\nAmong the sisterhood and brotherhood there included a married order of householders, which were families who supported and engaged in the everyday activities. Other than practicing quiet lives by praying and doing charity work, the Cloisters had a duty to keep up with the tasks of living at Ephrata. Farming and industrial work were the typical workload on a daily basis. Although the Cloisters often practiced their religion by interpreting Biblical works, they also engaged in carpentry and papermaking. Other tasks included gardening, preparing meals, and mending. Not only were the cloisters famous for their writings and hymns on the printing press but they became very busy people especially when it came to chores. They manufactured clothing on a mill and kept their lives busy by creating duties and obligations.\n\nThe Cloisters had a positive outlook on life; they respected their neighbors, land and environment. Education was also important in their society. It was important that every child maintain their education. Children that came from families were also encouraged to be educated in the German school. Educating the young was one of the charity works that the Cloisters accomplished. They also helped the poor by passing around bread to the poor families.\n\nOther believing families settled near the community, accepted Beissel as their spiritual leader and worshipped with them on Sabbath. These families made an integral part to the cloister, which could not be self-sustaining without them. The brothers and sisters of Ephrata are famous for their writing and publishing of hymns, and the composition of tunes in four voices. Beissel served as the community's composer as well as spiritual leader, and devised his own system of composition. The Ephrata hymnal (words only) was printed in 1747.\n\nThe Ephrata Cloister had the second German printing press in the American colonies and also published the largest book in Colonial America. The book, \"Martyrs Mirror\", is a history of the deaths of Christian martyrs from the time of Christ until 1660. Before the publication began at the request of a group of Mennonites from Montgomery County, it had to be translated from the original Holland Dutch into German, which was completed by Peter Miller of the Ephrata Community. Work began in 1748 and was finished about three years later. Many of the books were purchased by the Montgomery County Mennonites who had initiated the process.\n\nThe charismatic Beissel died in 1768, and this contributed to a declining membership. The monastic aspect was gradually abandoned, with the last celibate member dying in 1813. In 1814, the Society was incorporated as the \"German Seventh Day Baptist Church\" (or \"The German Religious Society of Seventh Day Baptists\"). Branches were established in other locations, some still surviving in 2009. In 1941, a Ephrata tract of land with remaining buildings was conveyed to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for use as a state historical site. The Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission led excavations there which, among other things, uncovered the Cloister's use as a Revolutionary War hospital. Of special note, the only glass trumpet of its kind in North America was unearthed by archaeologists in 1998 at the Cloister. The trumpet, which likely came from Germany, was found in excellent condition which led archaeologists to believe it was intentionally buried. The mouthpiece was the only part missing from the trumpet, so it is unknown if it has ever been played.\n\nAt its height, the Ephrata community grew to inhabited by about 80 celibate men and women. The married congregation numbered approximately 200.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9862", "title": "Europe of Democracies and Diversities", "text": "Europe of Democracies and Diversities\n\nEurope of Democracies and Diversities (EDD) was a Eurosceptic political group with seats in the European Parliament between 1999 and 2004. Following the 2004 European elections, the group reformed as Independence/Democracy (IND/DEM).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36385135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36385135", "title": "Evacuation Immediate", "text": "Evacuation Immediate\n\nEvacuation Immediate (SAME code: EVI) is a warning issued through the Emergency Alert System (EAS) in the United States to notify the public of a mandatory evacuation due to a wildfire, approaching hurricane, or an imminent explosion due to a gas leak. It is typically issued by a local or state authority and is relayed by the National Weather Service. The warning can replace a Civil Emergency Message, Fire Warning, or other warnings when required.\n\nWeather radio receivers, EAS Equipment boxes, and TV scrolls will display EVI alerts as Immediate Evacuation, and any text-to-speech voices from the EAS boxes will read the alert as \"Immediate Evacuation\" rather than \"Evacuation Immediate\" .\n\n"}
{"id": "50554017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50554017", "title": "Fair Tax Town", "text": "Fair Tax Town\n\nThe Fair Tax Town (FTT) movement (also called the Powys tax rebellion ) is a movement established by several shop owners in Crickhowell, Powys, Wales. \n\nDuring the establishment of the movement, a documentary was made by the BBC along with it. This documentary, narrated by Heydon Prowse is called \"The Town that went Offshore\" or \"The Town That Took on the Taxman\" and was first shown in January 2016. \n\nThe movie follows the business owners as they decide to establish an untaxed Manx company which designs and owns a brand (\"Crickhowell Fair Tax\"), use the brand in their advertising and pay royalties for using this brand, as big companies do with their own brands. Their Manx company sets up a Dutch subsidiary which receives the royalties and sends them to the Isle of Man, since Britain would tax royalties sent directly to a tax haven, but charges no tax on royalty payments to the Netherlands, and the Netherlands charges no tax on royalties sent to tax havens. Thus their money accumulates tax-free in the Isle of Man, and the movie suggests ways to use it for expenses in Wales, such as borrowing it. The movie also discusses customer relationship managers which tax authorities assign to big businesses to ensure their tax arrangements are valid.\n\nThe movement's aim is to persuade governments to change their tax regulation so that small businesses get the same level of tax as multinationals and other large businesses. To help achieve this, FTT has started to share their expertise on how to make businesses engage in tax avoidance. Since then, many other towns have adopted the scheme.\n\nAfter spending two years developing and publicizing the project, the Crickhowell businesses decided not to proceed. Prowse, the documentarian, said he hoped another group of people would take the idea another step, \"If you want to put your money through a scheme like that, you’ve got to expect that the taxman’s going to contact you and you’re going to have to defend yourself, possibly in court.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "28153604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28153604", "title": "Feminism in culture", "text": "Feminism in culture\n\nFeminism has affected culture in many ways, and has famously been theorised in relation to culture by Angela McRobbie, Laura Mulvey and others. Timothy Laurie and Jessica Kean have argued that \"one of [feminism's] most important innovations has been to seriously examine the ways women receive popular culture, given that so much pop culture is made by and for men.\" This is reflected in a variety of forms, including literature, music, film and other screen cultures.\n\nWomen's writing came to exist as a separate category of scholarly interest relatively recently. In the West, second-wave feminism prompted a general reevaluation of women's historical contributions, and various academic sub-disciplines, such as Women's history (or herstory) and women's writing (including in English) (a list is available), developed in response to the belief that women's lives and contributions have been underrepresented as areas of scholarly interest. Virginia Blain et al. characterize the growth in interest since 1970 in women's writing as \"powerful\". Much of this early period of feminist literary scholarship was given over to the rediscovery and reclamation of texts written by women. Studies such as Dale Spender's \"Mothers of the Novel\" (1986) and Jane Spencer's \"The Rise of the Woman Novelist\" (1986) were ground-breaking in their insistence that women have always been writing. Commensurate with this growth in scholarly interest, various presses began the task of reissuing long-out-of-print texts. Virago Press began to publish its large list of nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century novels in 1975 and became one of the first commercial presses to join in the project of reclamation. In the 1980s, Pandora Press, responsible for publishing Spender's study, issued a companion line of eighteenth-century novels written by women. More recently, Broadview Press has begun to issue eighteenth- and nineteenth-century works, many hitherto out of print, and the University of Kentucky has a series of republications of early women's novels. There has been commensurate growth in the area of biographical dictionaries of women writers due to a perception, according to one editor, that \"most of our women are not represented in the 'standard' reference books in the field\".\n\nIn the 1960s, the genre of science fiction combined its sensationalism with political and technological critiques of society to produce feminist science fiction. With the advent of feminism, questioning women's roles became fair game to this \"subversive, mind expanding genre\". Two early texts are Ursula K. Le Guin's \"The Left Hand of Darkness\" (1969) and Joanna Russ' \"The Female Man\" (1970). They serve to highlight the socially constructed nature of gender roles by creating utopias that do away with gender. Both authors were also pioneers in feminist criticism of science fiction in the 1960s and '70s, in essays collected in \"The Language of the Night\" (Le Guin, 1979) and \"How To Suppress Women's Writing\" (Russ, 1983). Another major work of feminist science fiction has been \"Kindred\" by Octavia Butler.\n\nThe term \"women's cinema\" usually refers to the work of women film directors. It can also designate the work of other women behind the camera such as cinematographers and screenwriters. Although the participation of women film editors, costume designers, and production designers is usually not considered to be decisive enough to justify the term \"women's cinema\", it does have a large influence on the visual impression of any movie.\n\nIn a film from popular culture although not in women's film, an early reference to the \"feminist movement\" is heard from Katharine Hepburn in the 1942 movie \"Woman of the Year\".\n\nWomen's music (or womyn's music or wimmin's music) is the music by women, for women, and about women. The genre emerged as a musical expression of the second-wave feminist movement as well as the labor, civil rights, and peace movements. The movement was started by lesbians such as Cris Williamson, Meg Christian, and Margie Adam, African-American women activists such as Bernice Johnson Reagon and her group Sweet Honey in the Rock, and peace activist Holly Near. Women's music also refers to the wider industry of women's music that goes beyond the performing artists to include studio musicians, producers, sound engineers, technicians, cover artists, distributors, promoters, and festival organizers who are also women.\n\n\"Riot grrrl\" (or \"riot grrl\") is an underground feminist punk movement that started in the 1990s and is often associated with third-wave feminism (it is sometimes seen as its starting point). It was grounded in the DIY philosophy of punk values. Riot grrrls took an anti-corporate stance of self-sufficiency and self-reliance. Riot grrrls' emphasis on universal female identity and separatism often appears more closely allied with second-wave feminism than with the third wave. Riot grrrl bands often address issues such as rape, domestic abuse, sexuality, and female empowerment. Some bands associated with the movement are Bikini Kill, Bratmobile, Excuse 17, Free Kitten, Heavens to Betsy, Huggy Bear, L7, and Team Dresch. In addition to a music scene, riot grrrl is also a subculture; zines, the DIY ethic, art, political action, and activism are part of the movement. Riot grrrls hold meetings, start chapters, and support and organize women in music.\n\nThe riot grrrl movement sprang out of Olympia, Washington, and Washington, D.C., in the early 1990s. It sought to give women the power to control their voices and artistic expressions. Riot grrrls took a growling double or triple r, placing it in the word \"girl\" as a way to take back the derogatory use of the term.\n\nThe riot grrrls' links to social and political issues are where the beginnings of third-wave feminism can be seen. The music and zine writings are strong examples of \"cultural politics in action, with strong women giving voice to important social issues though an empowered, a female oriented community, many people link the emergence of the third-wave feminism to this time\". The movement encouraged and made \"adolescent girls' standpoints central\", allowing them to express themselves fully.\n\nThe feminist sex wars is a term for the acrimonious debates within the feminist movement in the late 1970s through the 1980s around the issues of feminism, sexuality, sexual representation, pornography, sadomasochism, the role of transwomen in the lesbian community, and other sexual issues. The feminist debate on porn pitted anti-pornography feminism against sex-positive feminism, and parts of the feminist movement were deeply divided by these debates.\n\nAnti-pornography feminists, such as Catharine MacKinnon, Andrea Dworkin, Robin Morgan, and Dorchen Leidholdt, put pornography at the center of a feminist explanation of women's oppression.\n\nSome feminists, such as Diana Russell, Andrea Dworkin, Catharine MacKinnon, Susan Brownmiller, Dorchen Leidholdt, Ariel Levy, Robin Morgan, and Page Mellish, argue that pornography is degrading of women and complicit in violence against women both in its production (whereby, they charge, abuse and exploitation of women performing in pornography is rampant) and in its consumption (whereby, they charge, pornography eroticizes the domination, humiliation, and coercion of women and reinforces sexual and cultural attitudes that are complicit in rape and sexual harassment).\n\nBeginning in the late 1970s, anti-pornography radical feminists formed organizations such as Women Against Pornography and Feminists Fighting Pornography that provided educational events, including slide-shows, speeches, and guided tours of the sex industry in Times Square, New York City, in order to raise awareness of the content of pornography and the sexual subculture in pornography shops and live sex shows. Andrea Dworkin and Robin Morgan began articulating a vehemently anti-porn stance based in radical feminism beginning in 1974 and anti-porn feminist groups, such as Women Against Violence in Pornography and Media in San Francisco, became highly active in various U.S. cities during the late 1970s.\n\nSex-positive feminism is a movement that was formed in order to address issues of women's sexual pleasure, freedom of expression, sex work, and inclusive gender identities. Ellen Willis' 1981 essay, \"Lust Horizons: Is the Women's Movement Pro-Sex?\" is the origin of the term, \"pro-sex feminism\"; the more commonly used variant, \"sex positive feminism\" arose soon after.\n\nAlthough some sex-positive feminists, such as Betty Dodson, were active in the early 1970s, much of sex-positive feminism largely began in the late 1970s and 1980s as a response to the increasing emphasis in radical feminism on anti-pornography activism.\n\nSex-positive feminists are also strongly opposed to radical feminist calls for legislation against pornography, a strategy they decried as censorship, and something that could, they argued, be used by social conservatives to censor the sexual expression of women, gay people, and other sexual minorities. The initial period of intense debate and acrimony between sex-positive and anti-pornography feminists during the early 1980s is often referred to as the feminist sex wars. Other sex-positive feminists became involved not in opposition to other feminists but in direct response to what they saw as patriarchal control of sexuality.\n\nFeminist views on sex work and prostitution vary. Feminist supporters of sex worker rights and decriminalization argue that women's right to control their own bodies and sexuality includes the right to engage in consensual sexual commerce. They also argue that criminalization and social stigmatization of sex work and sex workers only worsens the existing marginalization and victimization that sex workers are often subjected to. On the other hand, feminist opponents of prostitution argue that prostitution is so tangled with forced prostitution, human trafficking, exploitation, and violence as to be inseparable from these ills in practice. They also argue that prostitution and other forms of sex work are inherently a product of patriarchy and sexism, and that the presence even of consensual sex work is harmful to society and women in particular. While feminists across all positions generally agree that direct criminalization of women in prostitution should be ended, there is little or no consensus on much else on the topics of legal approaches to the sex trade, the status of sex workers, or the nature of sex work itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "36311061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36311061", "title": "Gloria Victis Memorial", "text": "Gloria Victis Memorial\n\nThe Gloria Victis Memorial created in honor of the casualties of universal communism is situated adjacent to the cemetery of the town of Csömör near the North Eastern boundary of Budapest.\n\nThe memorial, being the first on this subject in the world, was consecrated and blessed on 21 October 2006 marking the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. On that day addresses were delivered by László Tőkés, Rainer Eppelmann and others. The chief patron of the celebration was Viktor Orbán.\n\nThe memorial was constructed adjacent to the graves of three Hungarian soldiers who died in 1944. A twin memorial, the work of János Víg is at its center. Placed on the circular stone there are the maps of the four continents shifted with respect to each other, with the affected areas marked with lead castings explaining the extent of the devastation visually. The section of the memorial alluding to ’56 can be construed as a victorious flag-carrier warship, indicating the fact that the Hungarian revolution was the first to succeed in forcing a break in the concrete wall of world-communism. In October 2008 a summary in three languages of the Resolution 1481 (2006) of the Council of Europe entitled \"The Necessity of International Condemnation of the Crimes Committed by Totalitarian Communist Regimes\" was carved on the back of the “world wall”. The two initiators of the aforementioned resolution, Göran Lindblad of Sweden and Latshezar Toshev of Bulgaria were the orators at the ceremony of the handing over of this text. In the years since, the memorial has been enriched by the Holodomor memorial stone donated by the Ukrainian minority in Hungary, by the tablet commemorating the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, as well as the marble tablets honoring the memory of those slaughtered at Katyn and the Romani people (gypsy) and Jewish victims of communism. The memorial was created and is maintained by the Gloria Victis Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "6782803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6782803", "title": "Hearts of Steel", "text": "Hearts of Steel\n\nThe Hearts of Steel, or Steelboys, was an exclusively Protestant movement originating in County Antrim, Ireland due to grievances about the sharp rise of rent and evictions. The protests then spread into neighbouring counties of Armagh, Down, and Londonderry, before being put down by the army.\n\nThe \"Hearts of steel,\" rose in 1769, against unjust and exorbitant rents, chiefly exacted by middlemen—speculators or \"forestallers\"—who took lands from absentee landlords at greatly increased rents, and made their own profit by doubling the rents on the poor tenants..\n\nIn 1770 in Templepatrick, County Antrim a local landlord evicted tenants and replaced them with speculators who could outbid the locals for the land. At some point a local was arrested and charged with maiming cattle belonging to a merchant from Belfast, which spurred the farmers of Templepatrick to take up arms and march on Belfast to demand his release. The protestors surrounded the barracks and threatened to burn the house of Waddell Cunningham, who was one of the new speculators in Templepatrick. The soldiers in the barracks fired upon the protestors killing several and wounding others. The protestors eventually set fire to Cunningham's house and as the fire threatened to spread and destroy the town of Belfast itself, its mayor decided to free the prisoner.\n\nFurther consternation was caused by the sharp increase of rents throughout Ulster. At the same time the leases had expired for Lord Donegall's south County Antrim estate. Whilst he kept his rent at the old prices, he greatly increasing their renewal fee. These coincided with several years of severe harvest failures, which resulted in high bread prices. The result of this was that people were unable to support themselves or their families, being left in the utmost state of deprivation and destitution, with many evicted from their land for failure to pay.\n\nThe Hearts of Steel protests and uprisings quickly spread throughout the county and into counties Armagh, Down, and Londonderry, which were also subject to the Hearts of Oak protest movement which it merged with. One tactic of the protestors was the \"houghing\" of cattle, which was cutting of the leg tendons of cattle, thus laming them. They also forced farmers to sell food at prices they set, and demanded anyone letting out land to do so at the cost of 12 shillings an acre. Landlords were threatened that if they tried to collect the cess from anyone that their houses would be destroyed.\n\nA band of Hearts of Steel, numbering around 800, held a demonstration in Gilford, County Down, on 2 March 1772, consisting of marching through the village and past the castle, home of the local Gilford estate owner, Sir Richard Johnston. On 5 March, the local Presbyterian minister, Rev. Samuel Morrell had informed Johnston that the \"leading deputies\" of the Hearts of Steel were meeting in the townland of The Clare, part of Johnston's estate. They raided the house and arresting the alleged deputies, with one escaping. This escapee raised the alarm and the next day between one and two thousand Steelboys from Gilford and neighbouring Lurgan and Portadown converged on the village at the castle of Johnston.\n\nDespite a plea from Johnston for diplomacy, a half-hour gun battle erupted between the Hearts of Steel and the defenders of the castle resulting in the burning of the gardener's house and the death of Morrell. Johnston failed with attempts to send out a flag of truce and so decided to flee, making a break from the castle and swimming across the River Bann, pursued the whole way. After gathering 150 men Johnston sought to confront the protestors, however by then 4,000 where waiting for him at neighbouring Loughbrickland.\n\nThe aftermath of this battle resulted in Johnston returning to Gilford with a company of soldiers, only to find that his castle and demense had been wrecked, with damage estimated at being £2,200. Despite their victory, the Hearts of Steel would face a heavy army response, with Johnston himself taking it upon himself to hunt down the ringleaders of the trouble. Eventually they were brought to trial in Dublin as due to either sympathy for or fear of the protestors in Ulster meant that convictions were hard to secure. In the end they were found not guilty.\n\nThe disturbances where so widespread in the affected counties, that the Irish government passed legislation to severely punish the \"wicked and disorderly persons\", and by the later half of 1772 sent the army into Ulster to crush them. Men were hanged, whilst many others are said to have drowned trying to flee across the sea to Scotland. The viceroy of Ireland, Lord Townshend, privately blamed the landlords and their actions for the disturbances and so issued a general pardon in November 1772.\n\n"}
{"id": "861523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=861523", "title": "InfraGard", "text": "InfraGard\n\nInfraGard is a non-profit organization serving as a public-private partnership between U.S. businesses and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The organization is an information sharing and analysis effort serving the interests, and combining the knowledge base of, a wide range of private sector and government members. InfraGard is an association of individuals that facilitates information sharing and intelligence between businesses, academic institutions, state and local law enforcement agencies, and other participants dedicated to prevent hostile acts against the United States. InfraGard's mutual nondisclosure agreements among its members (individuals) and the FBI promotes trusted discussions of vulnerabilities and solutions that companies and individuals may be hesitant to place in the public domain and provide access to additional threat information from the FBI.\n\nInfraGard began in the Cleveland, Ohio, Field Office in 1996, and has since expanded to become a national-level program, with InfraGard coordinators in every FBI field office. Originally, it was a local effort to gain support from the information technology industry and academia for the FBI's investigative efforts in the cyber arena, but it has since expanded to a much wider range of activities surrounding the nation's critical infrastructure.\n\nThe program expanded to other FBI Field Offices, and in 1998 the FBI assigned national program responsibility for InfraGard to the former National Infrastructure Protection Center (NIPC) directed by RADM James B. Plehal and to the FBI's Cyber Division in 2003. Since 2003, InfraGard Alliances and the FBI said that they have developed a TRUST-based public-private sector partnership to ensure reliability and integrity of information exchanged about various terrorism, intelligence, criminal, and security matters. It supports FBI priorities in the areas of counterterrorism, foreign counterintelligence, and cybercrime.\n\nInfraGard is focused on protecting the 16 critical infrastructures outlined by Presidential Directive 21: Critical Infrastructure Security & Resilience by sharing threat information, assisting the FBI in finding and prosecuting those who attack critical infrastructure through physical or cyber means, provide training for active shooter scenarios, cyber defense, and any other threats against the nation. The organization is committed to providing the tools and resources needed by those who own and operate the nation's critical infrastructure to protect their enterprises and maintain the services necessary for a safe and prosperous nation.\n\nInfraGard chapters also participate to assure that the critical infrastructure owners and operators—estimated at 85% private sector—are engaged and represented in local and regional planning efforts. Working on all 16 critical infrastructure sectors, the organization provides resources and information not only on prevention, but also on building resilience and response capabilities.\n\nInfraGard chapters around the nation also provide cyber and physical security training sessions that focus on the latest threats as identified by the FBI. Sessions include threat briefings, technical sessions on cyber and physical attack vectors, response training, and other resources to help CISOs and CSOs protect their enterprise. InfraGard approaches threats to critical infrastructure from both a tactical and strategic level, addressing the needs of those on the front lines of security as well as those decision makers tasked with assessing their enterprise's vulnerabilities and allocating resources to protect it.\n\nThe information sharing between the organization and government has been criticized by those protecting civil liberties, concerned the membership would be surrogate eyes and ears for the FBI. The group has also been the subject of hacking attacks intended to embarrass the FBI. Local chapters regularly meet to discuss the latest threats or listen to talks from subject matter experts on security issues, with membership open to U.S. citizens at no cost. As of July, 2012, the organization reported membership at over 54,677 (including FBI).\n\nInfraGard focuses on the development, management and protection of critical infrastructure. InfraGard has a nationwide focus group that reviews threats that could disrupt critical infrastructure nationwide for a month or more named the electromagnetic pulse special interest group (EMP SIG). This is an all-hazards approach that looks at manmade and natural electromagnetic pulse (EMP), cyber attack, coordinated physical attack, pandemics or insider threats and mitigating actions that could minimize such threats. Mitigation strategies include hardening and prevention strategies in addition to the development of local infrastructure that could make local communities more robust and sustainable. (See EMP SIG press release and guidance document. See also the website of the association of universities involved in public policy, the Policy Studies Organization, who produces the technology policy conference called the Dupont Summit in which the InfraGard National EMP SIG brought public and private sector leaders to discuss these emerging threat issues: http://www.ipsonet.org/conferences/the-dupont-summit/dupont-summit-2012/infragard-emp-sig )\n\nPartnerships between government agencies and private organizations has its critics. Concerned about civil liberties, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) warned that there \"is evidence that InfraGard may be closer to a corporate TIPS program, turning private-sector corporations — some of which may be in a position to observe the activities of millions of individual customers — into surrogate eyes and ears for the FBI\". Concluding that \"any program that institutionalizes close, secretive ties between such organizations raises serious questions about the scope of its activities, now and in the future.\" While others describing Infragard state \"the architecture of the Internet—and the many possible methods of attack— requires governments, corporations, and private parties to work together to protect network security and head off threats before they occur.\" Responding to the ACLU criticism, Chairwoman Kathleen Kiernan of the InfraGard National Members Alliance (INMA) denies that InfraGard is anything but beneficial to all Americans stating \"It's not an elitist group in any way, shape or form,\" she says. \"We're out there trying to protect everybody. Any U.S. citizen on the planet is eligible to apply to InfraGard.\"\n\nIn 2011, LulzSec claimed responsibility for attacking chapter websites managed by local members in Connecticut and Atlanta, in order to embarrass the FBI with \"simple hacks\". The group leaked some of InfraGard member e-mails and a database of local users. The group defaced the website posting the following message, \"LET IT FLOW YOU STUPID FBI BATTLESHIPS\", accompanied with a video. LulzSec has posted the following message regarding the attack:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39196511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39196511", "title": "International Peace Belt", "text": "International Peace Belt\n\nThe International Peace Belt is a living symbol of the peaceful unity of all nations.\n\nIn the summer of 2003, Wendy Black Nasta (a Connecticut-based jewelry designer) and her apprentices Katie Rosenblatt and Margaret Sola began working on the belt. They designed and built a sterling silver belt draped with coins and gems representing, to date, 155 countries.\n\nWhen it was completed 115 countries were represented with the ultimate goal of having all 191 countries represented.\n\nThe following countries have coins incorporated into the belt:\n\nAfghanistan, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Belgium, Brazil, Bermuda, Belize, British Caribbean Territories (Eastern Group 1961), Bangladesh, Chile, Columbia, Central Africa, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Costa Rica, Cayman Islands, Dominican Republic, Denmark, Egypt, East Africa, East Caribbean States, Euro (1 cent, 5 cent, 10 cent), Finland, France, Greece, Guatemala, Ghana, Germany, Hong-Kong, Honduras, Israel, Indonesia, India, Ireland, Iraq, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Latvia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Magyar, Malaysia, Malta, Morocco, Netherlands, Poland, Philippines, Peru, Portugal, Pakistan, Sweden, South Korea, Singapore, Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, Thailand, United Arab Emirates, United States, Uruguay, Vatican City, Venezuela, Vietnam, West Africa, Yugoslavia, Zambia\n\nThe following stones are incorporated into the belt:\n\nAmber, Amytrene, Amethyst, Aventurine, Aquamarine, Agate, Abalone shell (from The Siletz Tribe in Oregon), Black onyx, Bone, Bear fetish (Pipestone), Bamboo Coral, Blue shell, Cornelian Agate, Citrene, Coral (Italian), Carved Wood, Bone, Peridot, Iolite, Eilot, Emerald, Fluorite, Goldstone, Garnet, Green Onyx, Green Pearl, Green Tourmaline, Hematite, Hassonite Garnet, Iolite, Jade (carved Buddha from VietNam), Jasper, Jet, kynite, Lapis Lazuli, Lemon Citrene, Labradorite, Mother-of-pearl carved fetishes, Malachite, Moonstone, Peridot, Pearls (white, grey, green, red, brown), Quartz crystal, Rutillated quartz, Rainbow Moonstone, Rubellite, Rose Quartz, Spectralite, Sodolite, Scarab (from Egypt), Sapphire, Soapstone, Smokey Quartz, Tourquoise, Tourmaline, Tiger Eye, Vasuvialite, Watermelon Tourmaline, Yellow onyx\n\nThe International Peace Belt relies on caretakers and volunteers to travel from one destination to the next.\n\nWendy’s cousin Sara Morgues and friend Meghan Uhrich were the belt’s first caretakers. The pair were traveling to India to attend the Golden Jubilee for World Peace honoring the 50th birthday of Amritanadamayi (Aka Ammachi), a saint and guru from India. Sara offered to carry the belt and have it blessed by Ammachi. The belt would up being worn by a person from Ammachi’s ashram and led the peace procession of 150,000 people, thus taking on a life of its own.\n\nWhile in India, there was an interest in raising funds to pay for the extended travel of the belt. It was then that Wendy officially established the non-profit foundation Artists for World Peace to raise money for the ongoing travels and missions of the International Peace Belt.\n\nThe foundation has grown into a registered 501(c)(3) Non Profit organization, raising funds for grass roots organizations in communities around the world through the arts. The Children of Peace program was created to pay for the living and educational expenses of children all over the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "45663791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45663791", "title": "International Union for Cooperation in Solar Research", "text": "International Union for Cooperation in Solar Research\n\nThe International Union for Cooperation in Solar Research was an international organization dedicated to solar research between 1905 and 1913. It is one of the precursor organizations of the International Astronomical Union.\n\nThe Union was the brain-child of George Ellery Hale, who had realized the potential value of an international organization to coordinate scientific research and, by virtue of his extensive travels throughout Europe, had many contacts among eminent astronomers and solar physicists. Hale suggested to the National Academy of Sciences of the US the formation of a committee with the aim of forming such an international organization, and, as the committee's chairman, began contacting various scientific academies. His efforts led to a meeting at the St. Louis Exposition of 1904 and included representatives from 16 national scientific societies, but notably not from the Prussian Academy of Sciences, which had declined the invitation. (Instead, German delegates from the German Physical Society were present.)\n\nThe delegates proceeded to appoint a committee that was to create the Union as a permanent international scientific organization; the new organization had its first constituted meeting at Oxford in England a year later. Further meetings were held in Paris in 1907 and at Mount Wilson in 1910, where the purview of the Union was enlarged to include stellar research, in keeping with Hale's emphasis on the Sun as just one among the many other stars. Shortly after the last meeting in Bonn in 1913, World War I broke out, which effectively put an end to the Union's activities, which would later find continuation after the 1919 founding of the International Astronomical Union.\n"}
{"id": "845597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=845597", "title": "Italian Radicals", "text": "Italian Radicals\n\nThe Italian Radicals () are a political party in Italy, which describes itself as a \"\"liberale\", \"liberista e libertario\"\", where \"liberista\" denotes economic liberalism and \"libertario\" a form of cultural liberalism concerning moral issues.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2017 the party intended to be the Italian section of the Transnational Radical Party (TRP), that is to say the continuation of the Radical Party founded in 1955 by the left-wing of the Italian Liberal Party and re-launched in the 1960s by Marco Pannella. As the Radical Party had become a transnational NGO working mainly at the UN-level, which by statute could not participate in national elections, its Italian members organised themselves into the Pannella List between 1992 and 1999 and the Bonino List until 2001, when they established the RI. In 2017 the TRP broke with the RI.\n\nFounded on 14 July 2001 (with Daniele Capezzone as their first secretary), the RI are a member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party. The party was previously a full member of the Liberal International. According to its constitution, the party \"as such and with its symbol does not take part in elections\".\n\nThe Radical Party was long a left-libertarian movement in Italy, often proposing itself as the most extreme opposition to the Italian political establishment. When Silvio Berlusconi entered the political arena in 1994, the Radicals, who were then organised mostly into the Pannella List and were attracted by Berlusconi's proposed economic liberalism, supported him, albeit critically and without becoming directly involved in his centre-right governments, in the hope of a \"liberal revolution\" as opposed to the conservative and statist political establishment represented by traditional parties.\n\nThe relationship between the Radicals and Berlusconi, whose allies included socially conservative groups at odds with the Radicals' cultural liberalism, soon ended up. In the 1999 European Parliament election, the Bonino List obtained 8.7% of the vote and seven MEPs, including Emma Bonino, Marco Pannella, Marco Cappato and Benedetto Della Vedova. However, the Radicals were not able to convert that electoral success into a more stable political influence, as subsequent elections would show.\n\nShortly after the 1999 election, they deserted Berlusconi's proposal of welcoming them back into the centre-right fold and instead formed the Committee of Radicals for the Liberal Revolution and the United States of Europe, led by Cappato. In the run-up of the 2000 regional elections, the opposite happened: Berlusconi's conservative allies posed a veto on the Radicals, who wanted to re-compose the alliance. Consequently, they ran independent bids in most regions, obtaining elects only in Piedmont and Lombardy.\n\nIn 2001, after a defeat in the general election (only 2.3% of the vote and no seats), they re-organised themselves as Italian Radicals and elected 28-year-old Daniele Capezzone as secretary and Della Vedova, Rita Bernardini and Luca Coscioni as joint presidents.\n\nIn the run-up of the 2005 regional elections, the Radicals understood that their isolation was no longer sustainable and took the unprecedented step of contextually asking to join either the centre-right House of Freedoms or the centre-left The Union, regardless of their respective political platforms. The request was turned down by both coalitions, but the effort opened the way for the party's re-positionment in the Italian party system.\n\nIn November 2005, the Radicals formed an alliance with the Italian Democratic Socialists (SDI), becoming \"de facto\" members of The Union coalition for the 2006 general election. The \"rose in the fist\", the symbol of the Socialist International (which included the SDI) which the Radical Party bought from the French Socialist Party, was chosen for the joint list that was thus named Rose in the Fist (RnP). This decision led those Radicals who were more keen on an alliance with the centre-right to split: this group, led by Della Vedova, launched the Liberal Reformers and joined the House of Freedoms, eventually merging into Berlusconi's Forza Italia.\n\nIn the election, the list won a mere 2.6% of the vote, much less than the combined support for the two parties before the alliance (the Radicals alone got 2.3% in the 2004 European Parliament election). The Radicals lost voters in their strongholds in the North to Forza Italia, while the Socialists lost ground in their southern heartlands to The Olive Tree parties (see electoral results of the RnP). After the election, Bonino was sworn in as Minister of European Affairs and International Trade in the Prodi II Cabinet.\n\nIn November 2006, after a row with Pannella, who was still the party's real leader, Capezzone was forced not to run again for secretary and was replaced by rank-and-file Bernardini. Since then, although not officially leaving, Capezzone became very critical of the government and formed his own political association named Decide!, closer to the centre-right than the centre-left. Later on, Capezzone entered Forza Italia and became the party's spokesman.\n\nIn November 2007, the RnP was disbanded as the SDI merged with minor Socialist parties to form the modern-day Italian Socialist Party. The Radicals were at a new turning-point of their history. In the run-up of the 2007 congress, Pannella declared that the party should \"give absolute priority to economic, liberal and libertarian reforms rather than the civil struggle to Vatican power, prepotency and arrogance\", which had been central in 2006. This did not mean a reconciliation with the centre-right.\n\nIn the 2008 general election, the Radicals stood for re-election in list with the Democratic Party (PD). Under an agreement with PD's leader Walter Veltroni, six deputies and three senators were elected. After the election, Bonino was appointed Vice President of the Senate and the Radicals joined the PD's parliamentary groups. In June, Bernardini, Maria Antonietta Coscioni and Elisabetta Zamparutti (all three elected MPs) were replaced by Antonella Casu, Bruno Mellano and Michele De Lucia as secretary, president and treasurer, respectively. In November, the new leadership was confirmed by the national congress.\n\nIn the 2009 European Parliament election, the Radicals ran separately from the PD under the banner of Bonino-Pannella List. Having obtained 2.4% of the vote, they failed to return any MEPs and were excluded from the assembly for the first time in 30 years. In November, Mario Staderini replaced Casu as secretary.\n\nBonino ran for President of Lazio for the centre-left coalition in the 2010 regional election, but was defeated by Renata Polverini.\n\nIn January 2013, the party announced that it would contest the upcoming general election on a stand-alone electoral list called Amnesty, Justice and Freedom (\"Aministia, Giustizia, e Libertà\"). In the election, the party received 0.2% of the vote, returning no deputies and senators. However, in April and after two months of failed attempts at forming a new government, thanks to her international standing and Pannella's lobbying efforts, Bonino was sworn in as Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Letta Cabinet. The cabinet lasted until 22 February 2014, when it was replaced by the Renzi Cabinet, which did not include Bonino.\n\nIn November 2013, the party elected a new leadership: Bernardini secretary, Laura Arconti president and Valerio Federico treasurer. The party did not take part in the 2014 European Parliament election, partly due to lack of funds.\n\nIn November 2015 during the annual party congress, Riccardo Magi was elected secretary and Cappato president. Pannella, who did not speak at the congress, opposed the change, while Bonino, who was no longer in good terms with the old leader, did not even take part in the congress. However, in the following months Bonino decided to side with Magi and Cappato, who launched \"Radical\" lists for the 2016 municipal elections in Rome and Milan, in a move opposed by the leadership of the TRP, especially Maurizio Turco. The lists obtained 1.2% and 1.9%, respectively, and in both cases they supported the candidates put forward by the PD, either in the first or the second round, opening the way for the party's rapprochement with the centre-left at country-level.\n\nIn May 2016, Pannella, who had long suffered from cancer, died and Italian politicians from across the entire political spectrum paid tribute to him.\n\nIn the event, the party found itself increasingly divided in two factions: on one side Magi, Cappato and Staderini (who were backed by Bonino), on the other Turco, Bernardini and most of the staff of Radio Radicale (who were closer to the late Pannella). The former focused more on Italian politics and elections, while the latter were more interested in the activity of the Transnational Radical Party (TRP) and no longer in playing an active role in elections (as suggested by Pannella).\n\nThe fracture was evident in September 2016 at the congress of the TRP, during which the faction of Turco and Bernardini soundly beat the other wing. At the November 2016 congress, in turn the RI confirmed Magi as secretary, while electing Antonella Soldo as president.\n\nIn February 2017, the TRP severed its ties with the RI (who were accused of boycotting the TRP) and the latter were forced out of the Radical headquarters.\n\nIn November 2017 the RI formed, along with Della Vedova's Forza Europa (FE) and some members of the Civics and Innovators (CI), More Europe (+E), a pro-Europeanist list for the 2018 general election, led by Bonino. +E was part of the centre-left coalition led by Matteo Renzi and the PD. \n\nThe list won 2.6% of the vote in the election, falling short of the 3% threshold, but Bonino was elected to the Senate in a single-seat constituency in Rome, Magi to the Chamber also from Rome and Alessandro Fusacchia from the European constituency of Italians abroad. Contextually, the list obtained 2.1% and one regional councillor in the Lombard regional election and 2.1% and one regional councillor also in the 2018 regional election.\n\nIn July 2018 +E started to organise itself as a full-fledged party. It was decided that a committee, presided by Gianfranco Spadaccia (a long-time Radical), would lead +E until the founding congress, scheduled for January 2019. The newly-formed committee appointed Della Vedova as coordinator. In November, following his election to Parliament, Magi was replaced by Silvja Manzi as secretary; at the same congress Barbara Bonvicini was elected president of the party.\n\nAccording to the party statute, the Italian Radicals are both a \"liberal, liberist and libertarian\" party and a non-ideological, pragmatic and open movement: indeed the RI are the only Italian political movement who consent the double membership. \n\nThe RI claims the legacy of Risorgimento radical-republican figures such as Carlo Cattaneo, Giuseppe Mazzini, and Felice Cavallotti, and 19th-century liberal and socialist intellectuals as Gaetano Salvemini, the brothers Carlo and Nello Rosselli, Benedetto Croce, and party-ideologue Ernesto Rossi.. Internationally, the RI political though is influenced by ideas of Martin Luther King, Mahatma Gandhi, Immanuel Kant and Karl Popper.\n\nOn political action's methods, the RI adopts referendums as direct democratic system of vote (since 1974, the Radical Party and his not-legal successor RI had purposed more than 110 referendums, winned 35 times) and Gandhi-inspired nonviolence, the Satyagraha, also adopting extreme tactics like hunger strike and, occasionally, thirst strike. Particularly, Marco Pannella became near to the nonviolent movement after a long time association with Aldo Capitini, an anti-fascist activist nicknamed \"Italian Gandhi\".\n\nOn fiscal issues, the Radicals are usually liberists and libertarians, supporting non-interventionist and free market policies, but in recent times accepted part of welfare state system, especially on healthcare. The Radicals are historically divided in two wings: the \"Friedmanians\", those who were influenced by Milton Friedman and the Chicago School, and the \"Keynesians\", who support neo-Keynesian or post-Keynesian economics. This factions became less present after the party decline in 2010s, that adopted moderate liberal trends on economy.\n\nOn social issues, RI appear as the most progressive party in Italy. The Radicals fully supports progressive stances like same-sex marriage, abortion, artificial insemination and euthanasia, vocally claiming for a advance healthcare directive (AHD). On healthcare, RI support universal healthcare with possibility to choose between national service of private insurance. Despite left-wing parties, Radicals also claim for the legalization of prostitution and cannabis, meantime enforcing the fight against hard drugs like heroin with harm reduction methods. On immigration, RI support ius soli policy and faster legal integration of regular immigrants, granting them citizenship and right to vote. Radicals also criticize sentiment against clandestine immigrants, rejecting the \"invasion\" theory supported by far-right extremists.\nOn religious affairs, RI follow the historical Radical Party position of anti-clericalism, calling for the abolition of Lateran Treaty of 1929, eight per thousand and secularization of Italian state. Radicals are strongly critics against the Catholic-dominated politics, underlining the ghettoisation of religious minorities like Waldensians and irreligious (including atheists and agnostics).\n\nOn foreign affairs issues, RI always been supporter of European federalism, non-interventionism, Atlanticism and Zionism, while standing for a two-state solution. The movement is a strong supporter of enlargement of the European Union, also toward Turkey, Morocco, Israel and Palestine and is a strong opponent of dictatorial-like states, like China, Syria and Russia. Despite their non-interventionism, Radicals aren't pacifist and support war actions where civil rights are absent and minorities endangered, like Kosovo and Afghanistan wars. RI had supported several cultural and social mobilisations in support of several persecuted ethnic and religious minorities, like Tibetans, Uyghurs, Degar and Chechens.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "615353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615353", "title": "KH-8 Gambit 3", "text": "KH-8 Gambit 3\n\nThe KH-8 (BYEMAN codename Gambit-3) was a long-lived series of reconnaissance satellites of the \"Key Hole\" (KH) series used by the United States from July 1966 to April 1984, and also known as Low Altitude Surveillance Platform. The satellite ejected \"film-bucket\" canisters of photographic film that were retrieved as they descended through the atmosphere by parachute. Ground resolution of the mature satellite system was better than . There were 54 launch attempts of the 3,000 kilogram satellites, all from Vandenberg Air Force Base, on variants of the Titan III rocket. Three launches failed to achieve orbit. The first one was satellite #5 on April 26, 1967 which fell into the Pacific Ocean after the Titan second stage developed low thrust. The second was satellite #35 on May 20, 1972 which suffered an Agena pneumatic regulator failure and reentered the atmosphere. A few months later, pieces of the satellite turned up in England and the US managed to arrange for their hasty return. The third failure was satellite #39 on June 26, 1973 which suffered a stuck Agena fuel valve. The Bell 8096 engine failed to start and the satellite burned up in the atmosphere. The KH-8 was manufactured by Lockheed. The camera system/satellite was manufactured by Eastman Kodak's A&O Division in Rochester, New York.\n\nThe Gambit codename was also used by the satellite's predecessor, the KH-7 Gambit.\n\nGambit 3 satellites were the same width as the Gambit 1 models, but also slightly longer — reaching about 29 feet (9 m) in length. They carried 12,241 feet (3,731 meters) of film and were designed for longer missions of up to 31 days \n\nThe Camera Optics Module of KH-8 consists of four cameras.\n\nThe main camera of KH-8B (introduced in 1971) with a focal length of is a single strip camera, designed to gather high-resolution images of ground targets. In the strip camera the ground image is reflected by a steerable flat mirror to a diameter stationary concave primary mirror. The primary mirror reflects the light through an opening in the flat mirror and through a Ross corrector. At periapsis altitude of 75 nautical miles, the main camera imaged a 6.3 km wide ground swath on a wide moving portion of film through a small slit aperture, resulting in an image scale of 28 meter / millimeter. The Astro-Position Terrain Camera (APTC) contains three cameras: a 75mm focal length terrain frame camera, and two 90mm focal length stellar cameras. The terrain frame camera takes exposures of Earth in direction of the vehicle roll position for attitude determination. The stellar cameras observed in 180 degree opposite directions and took images of star fields.\nThe films used by GAMBIT were provided by Eastman Kodak, and evolved through a series of successively higher definition films, starting with Type 3404 with a resolving power of 50 to 100 line pairs per mm. Subsequent films used were Type 1414 high-definition film, SO-217 high-definition fine-grain film, and a series of films with silver-halide crystals of very uniform size and shape. The size of silver-halide crystals decreased from 1,550 angstrom in film Type SO-315, to 1,200 angstrom in SO-312, and ultimately to 900 angstrom in SO-409. Under optimal conditions GAMBIT would thus have been able to record ground features as small as 0.28 m to 0.56 m (1 ft to 2 ft) using the Eastman Kodak Type 3404 film. Using a film with a resolving power equivalent to the Kodak's Type 3409 film of 320 to 630 line pairs per mm, GAMBIT would have been able to record ground features as small as 5 cm to 10 cm (2\" to 4\") . The initial September 2011 release of \"The Gambit Story\" quotes \"The mature system produced examples of imagery better than four inches ground-resolution distance\". This number was again redacted in a later release. Five to ten centimeters corresponds to the resolution limit imposed by atmospheric turbulence as derived by Fried and, independently, Evvard in the mid-1960s; remarkably, GAMBIT had reached a physical limit on resolution only a few years after the US launched its first reconnaissance satellite. GAMBIT was also able to record objects in orbit. The capability was developed to photograph Soviet spacecraft, but was first used to aid NASA engineers designing repairs for the damaged Skylab space station in 1973.\n\nThe total cost of the 54 flight KH-8 program from FY1964 to FY1985, without non-recurring costs, was US$2.3 billion in respective year dollars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2926577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2926577", "title": "Land terrier", "text": "Land terrier\n\nA land terrier is a record system for an institution's land and property holdings. It differs from a land registry in that it is maintained for the organisation's own needs and may not be publicly accessible.\n\nTypically, it consists of written records related to a map. Modern practice involves the use of Geographic Information Systems.\n\nIn France the term \"terrier\" refers to feudal records associated with the Ancien Régime.\n\n"}
{"id": "22092418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22092418", "title": "Line tree", "text": "Line tree\n\nA Line Tree is a real estate term that refers to an actual tree which sits in the center line between two separate real properties or on the corner of several properties. Older deeds often refer to these trees as actual landmarks in their written descriptions, i.e.: \"a northerly line extending approximately 3000 feet to the old oak...\" As surveys and property deeds are updated, these line trees might remain but are often eliminated from written descriptions, to be replaced with modern metal and stone markers, or even longitudinal and latitudinal positions as determined by global positioning satellite systems.\n\nLine Trees were especially important in historical deeds because at one time it was difficult, if not impossible, to carry or create enough long-lasting man-made markers for legal descriptions of land swaps in the wilderness. Historic court battles and documents are replete with the term. See:\n"}
{"id": "20754972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20754972", "title": "List of proposed state mergers", "text": "List of proposed state mergers\n\nThis is a list of proposed state mergers, including both current and historical proposals originating from sovereign states or organizations. The entities listed below differ from separatist movements in that they would form as a merger or union of two or more existing states, territories, colonies or other regions, becoming either a federation, confederation or other type of unified sovereign state.\n\n"}
{"id": "19489902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19489902", "title": "Littoral rights", "text": "Littoral rights\n\nIn United States law, Littoral rights are rights concerning properties that abut static water like an ocean, bay, delta, sea or lake, rather than a flowing river or stream (riparian). Littoral rights are usually concerned with the use and enjoyment of the shore., but also may include rights to use the water similar to riparian rights. \n\nAn owner whose property abuts tidal waters(i.e. oceanfront) owns the land to the mean low water line or 100 rods below mean high water, whichever is less. The land between low water and high water is reserved for the use of the public by state law and is regulated by the state.\n\n"}
{"id": "58082674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58082674", "title": "Maurice Rollet", "text": "Maurice Rollet\n\nMaurice Rollet (30 January 1933–21 January 2014) was a French poet, activist and medical doctor. He sometimes used the pseudonym \"François Le Cap\".\n\nIn the 1960s he was a far right-wing activist who was involved with \"Jeune Nation\", \"Europe-Action\" and supported the OAS, for which he was imprisoned. In 1968 he was one of the co-founders of the \"Nouvelle Droite\" organization GRECE. According to Rollet the organization was founded at his birthday party in Marseille on 29 January 1968, although this account has been contested.\n\nIn 1973 he co-founded the neopagan scouting organization Europe Jeunesse with Jean-Claude Valla and Jean Mabire. Unlike some \"Nouvelle Droite\" activists who mainly regarded paganism as an intellectual position, Rollet always took the pagan sensibility very seriously. He held contact with the World Congress of Ethnic Religions based in Vilnius.\n\nHis poetic works are marked by his neopaganism. Some of his lyrics have been set to music by the singer Docteur Merlin.\n\nHe appeared as a film actor in \"The Rebel\" in 1980 and \"La Flambeuse\" in 1981 and composed music for \"Pierre and Djemila\" in 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "43288938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43288938", "title": "Medical model of autism", "text": "Medical model of autism\n\nThe medical model of autism encourages continual research into the causes of autism, with the primary goal of finding a way to prevent or cure autism. This is a subset of the medical model of disability in general. The model advocates a variety of goals including increased awareness of autism prevalence, earlier and more accessible diagnosis, elimination of autistic behaviors through therapies such as applied behavior analysis, identification of environmental factors that may cause autism in infancy, and identification of a genetic marker to allow testing for autism in utero.\n\nAdvocates for the medical model believe that autism is a disorder caused by genetic defects or environmental harm, that the value of talents attributed to autism does not outweigh the deficits, and that most autistic people would be better off if they were not autistic. For instance, then-president Liz Feld of Autism Speaks stated that one-third of people with autism also have a seizure disorder, half suffer serious digestive complications, 49 percent wander, and more than 30 percent are nonverbal.\n\nMany organizations subscribe to the medical model, most of which have non-profit status. The autism rights and neurodiversity movements are critics of the medical view.\n\nAutism is defined in the DSM-IV-TR as exhibiting at least six symptoms total, including at least two symptoms of qualitative impairment in social interaction, at least one symptom of qualitative impairment in communication, and at least one symptom of restricted and repetitive behavior. Sample symptoms include lack of social or emotional reciprocity, stereotyped and repetitive use of language or idiosyncratic language, and persistent preoccupation with parts of objects. Onset must be prior to age three years, with delays or abnormal functioning in either social interaction, language as used in social communication, or symbolic or imaginative play. The disturbance must not be better accounted for by Rett syndrome or childhood disintegrative disorder.\n\nThe medical model has been the most popular stance on autism ever since the condition was identified by Leo Kanner and Hans Asperger in 1943. Researchers at the time believed that autism was similar to schizophrenia but with the patients being more self-involved.\n\nIn 1965, the National Society for Autistic Children, later renamed the Autism Society of America, was founded by Bernard Rimland and Ruth C. Sullivan, along with a small group of other parents. The Autism Society does not advocate explicitly to cure autism.\n\nIn 1995, the Autism Research Institute (ARI) began hosting its annual Defeat Autism Now! (DAN!) conference to discuss the latest developments in research. Beginning with the 2011 conference, ARI renamed it the ARI conference and suspended the list of DAN! doctors.\n\nIn 2005, Autism Speaks was founded by Bob Wright and Suzanne Wright, a year after their grandson Christian was diagnosed as autistic. Autism Speaks has since become the most recognized autism-related organization worldwide. Other celebrity endorsements of the medical model have included Ed Asner, Toni Braxton, Jim Carrey, Byron Dafoe, Sarah Gardner, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., Olaf Kölzig, Scott Mellanby, Zack Peter, AJ Rafael, and Mike Rio.\n\nIn 2008, the first World Autism Awareness Day was celebrated after a United Nations General Assembly resolution recognizing the day passed in December 2007.\n\n\n\nThe pro-cure perspective is a view of autism as a disorder characterized by various impairments, mostly in communication and social interaction. Although positive traits such as savant syndrome may be recognized, they are not seen as outweighing the negatives. Pro-cure organizations generally favor the medical model of disability with regards to autism. They believe that the atypical behaviors of autistic individuals are a detriment to those individuals' success, both socially and professional, and should therefore be reduced or eliminated through therapy. Autistic people's life experiences are viewed as sub-standard and a burden to their caretakers.\n\nAutism Speaks co-founder Suzanne Wright published a \"Call for Action\" at the time of the organization's first national policy summit in Washington, D.C., explaining the urgency of what she called the \"autism crisis\". In this essay, she equates children being autistic to being \"missing\" and \"gravely ill\", and details the exhaustive experiences of their parents:\nAwareness campaigns by various organizations draw attention to the prevalence of autism, estimated by the year 2012 as 1 in 68 individuals (1 in 42 males, 1 in 189 females) by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). This figure has risen from the estimated 1 in 150 in the year 2000. The prevalence statistic is used to describe the scope and size of the problem, and the increase over time is used to frame the issue as urgent. Some organizations and individuals even call it the autism \"epidemic\".\nAwareness campaigns educate people not only about the prevalence of autism but also how it is characterized. Almost every autism-related organization has a flyer or a section of their website describing what autism is, in a way that supports the organization's point of view. Descriptions used by the medical model are generally based on the facts and language used in medical journals.\n\nAutism is classified as a disorder in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" and International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems. Attempts have been made to place a figure on the financial cost of autism, addressed to both scholarly and popular audiences.\n\nActivists like Jim Sinclair and Donna Williams and organizations such as Aspies For Freedom and the Autistic Self Advocacy Network, contend that autism is not a disorder, but a normal variant within the neurological diversity of the human genome. Struggles faced by autistic people are attributed to discrimination rather than deficiencies. Proponents of the anti-cure perspective believe that quirks and uniqueness of autistic individuals should be accepted and that efforts to eliminate autism should not be compared, for example, to curing cancer but instead to the antiquated notion of curing left-handedness.\nTherapies that attempt to restrict autistic behaviors, particularly applied behavior analysis (ABA), have been challenged on ethical grounds. Autism rights activists argue that ABA therapy and restriction of stimming \"and other autistic coping mechanisms\" are mentally harmful, that aversion therapy and the use of restraints are physically harmful, and that alternative treatments like chelation are dangerous. Michelle Dawson, a Canadian autism self-advocate, testified in court against government funding of ABA therapy. An autistic person named Jane Meyerding criticized therapy which attempts to remove autistic behaviors because she says that the behaviors that the therapy tries to remove are attempts to communicate.\n\n"}
{"id": "52193419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52193419", "title": "Millennium Peace Prize for Women", "text": "Millennium Peace Prize for Women\n\nIn 2001, as part of International Alert's \"Women Building Peace\" campaign, the United Nations Development Fund for Women awarded a Millennium Peace Prize for Women. The bronze prize was commissioned from American figurative sculptor Tim Holmes, who has created several such international awards. The sculpture, entitled Anima Mundi, depicts a woman whose facial features combine elements of many races, reaching and striding forward, hand on heart.\n\nThe United Nations announced the following winners:\n\nA ceremony honoring the women and distributing the prize sculptures was held on International Women's Day, March 8, 2001 at the United Nations headquarters in New York City. Many of the women recognized shared their powerful stories of reconciliation in the face of violence. Individual awardees included Veneranda Nzambazamariya, recognized for the reconciliation she brought about as president of Pro-femmes Twese Hamwe, a collective of 32 women's organizations in Rwanda. The group was assembled shortly after the April 1994 massacre of Tutsis and sympathetic Hutus that resulted in one million deaths and the creation of more than two million refugees. Flora Brovina, president of the League of Albanian Women of Kosova, was honored for establishing a center that cared for women and children fleeing Kosovo during the Serbian occupation. In April 1999 she was arrested by the Serbian military for gathering food, clothes, and medical supplies for the Kosovo Liberation Army. (She was released in November 2000.) Pakistani human rights activists Asma Jahangir and Hina Jilani, were honored for helping to bring a feminist solution to the bitter conflict between India and Pakistan over Kashmir.\n\nTwo groups also won awards. Ruta Pacifica de las Mujeres, from Colombia, was acknowledged for teaching coexistence strategies to rural and professional women. The group also organizes women's marches, calling for peaceful resolutions to ongoing conflicts. And Leitana Nehan Women's Development Agency won an award for providing humanitarian relief to the women and children victimized by the nine-year war between Bougainville rebels and the Papua New Guinea military. Leitana Nehan also provides training in conflict resolution, promotes HIV/AIDS awareness, and teaches tactics to end violence against women.\n"}
{"id": "54864148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54864148", "title": "New Start (Hungary)", "text": "New Start (Hungary)\n\nNew Start (), also known as UK, is a centre-right, third way political party in Hungary, founded by György Gémesi, mayor of Gödöllő.\n\nThe party was founded in 2017, though Gémesi had made references to the formation of a party earlier. But Gémesi officially only announced the formation of the party on March 15, along with his 12-point platform. \n\nIn July that year, Gémesi announced that he was negotiating cooperation with centrist party Politics Can Be Different. In December 2017, György Gémesi and Bernadett Szél has agreed, that the New Start and the Politics Can Be Different is running together in the 2018 Hungarian parliamentary election. György Gémesi is elected but resigned and Krisztina Hohn replaced him on June, 11. She joined the Politics Can Be Different group at the National Assembly.\n\nIn July 2018, György Gémesi announced that his party will not cooperate with LMP in the future, for next year's European Parliament and municipal elections.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1359407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1359407", "title": "Pacific Tsunami Warning Center", "text": "Pacific Tsunami Warning Center\n\nThe Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) is one of two tsunami warning centers that are operated by NOAA in the United States. Headquartered on Ford Island, HI, the PTWC is part of an international tsunami warning system (TWS) program and serves as the operational center for TWS of the Pacific issuing bulletins and warnings to participating members and other nations in the Pacific Ocean area of responsibility. It is also the regional (local) warning center for the State of Hawaii. The other tsunami warning center is the National Tsunami Warning Center (NTWC) in Palmer, Alaska, serving all coastal regions of Canada and the United States except Hawaii, the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nThe PTWC was established in 1949, following the 1946 Aleutian Island earthquake and a tsunami that resulted in 165 casualties in Hawaii and Alaska.\n\nThe PTWC uses seismic data as its starting point, but then takes into account oceanographic data when calculating possible threats. Tide gauges in the area of the earthquake are checked to establish if a tsunami has formed. The center then forecasts the future of the tsunami, issuing warnings to at-risk areas all around the Pacific basin if needed. \n\nDepending on the seismic data, PTWC will issue the following types of bulletins:\n\nIn 1995, NOAA began developing the Deep-ocean Assessment and Reporting of Tsunamis (DART) system. By 2001, an array of six stations had been deployed in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nBeginning in 2005, as a result of the tsunami caused by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, plans were announced to add 32 more DART buoys to be operational by mid-2007.\n\nThese stations give detailed information about tsunamis while they are still far off shore. Each station consists of a sea-bed bottom pressure recorder (at a depth of 1000–6000 m) which detects the passage of a tsunami and transmits the data to a surface buoy via acoustic modem. The surface buoy then radios the information to the PTWC via the GOES satellite system. The bottom pressure recorder lasts for two years while the surface buoy is replaced every year. The system has considerably improved the forecasting and warning of tsunamis in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nLocal populations in the United States of America receive tsunami information through radio and television receivers connected to the Emergency Alert System, and in some places (such as Hawaii) civil defense sirens and roving loudspeaker broadcasts from police vehicles. The public can subscribe to the RSS feed or email alerts from the PTWC web site, and the UNESCO site. Email and text messages are also available from the USGS Earthquake Notification Service which includes tsunami alerts.\n\n"}
{"id": "31906873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31906873", "title": "Paraguayan expatriate voting referendum, 2011", "text": "Paraguayan expatriate voting referendum, 2011\n\nA referendum on allowing expatriate citizens to vote was held in Paraguay on 9 October 2011. The measure was approved by 78% of voters, although voter turnout was only 12.5%. If approved by the Congress, the measure would give the right to vote to more than half a million Paraguayans living abroad, mostly in Argentina, Spain and the United States. President Fernando Lugo believed it would strengthen Paraguay's democracy.\n"}
{"id": "5795063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5795063", "title": "Philanthrocapitalism", "text": "Philanthrocapitalism\n\nPhilanthrocapitalism is a way of doing philanthropy, which mirrors the way that business is done in the for-profit world. It may involve venture philanthropy that actively invests in social programs to pursue specific philanthropic goal that would yield return on investment over the long term, or in a more passive form whereby \"social investors\" benefit from investing in socially-responsible programs.\n\nThe term was coined by Matthew Bishop and Michael Green in their book \"Philanthrocapitalism: How the Rich Can Save The World\". The book was endorsed by Bill Clinton, who wrote in its foreword that this concept drives the Clinton Foundation. The shift in implementing business models in charity is not a new concept – John Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie sought to apply their business strategies in their philanthropy in the twentieth century. Since then, a significant increase in charity spending by other organizations such as the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, both described as examples of philanthrocapitalism, has been noted.\n\nThese more modern organizations differ from other groups or organizations since their funds come more from the private capital of an individual rather than donors or profit from physical products. The integration of business models in charity foundations has focused on a symbiotic relationship between social responsibility and the local, national, and international markets. Philanthrocapitalism has been compared and contrasted with altruism due to the similar stated goals of the movements’ advocates.\n\nThere are many criticisms of philanthrocapitalism beginning with the limited transparency and accountability involved. There are also concerns that private philanthropy erodes support for governmental spending on public services. The main worry with this practice is that collectively, it can lead to tax revenue problems for the government. Donations are still going towards philanthropy, but some public services may not be able to utilize these funds because they may never receive them. Because of this, there is concern from John Cassidy that the wealth of a few may be able to determine what organizations receive the most funding.\n\nIt was also noticed by Linsey McGoey that many current and past philanthropists amassed their fortunes by predatory business practices which enhanced the very social problems their philanthropy is intended to alleviate. Finally there are concerns of the existence of ulterior motives. These ulterior motives can range from business owners avoiding capital-gains taxes by donating their company's excess stock instead of selling it and estate taxes which would be assessed onto their family to collecting tax credits from the government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8161079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8161079", "title": "Plant Genetic Systems", "text": "Plant Genetic Systems\n\nPlant Genetic Systems (PGS), since 2002 part of Bayer CropScience, is a biotech company located in Ghent, Belgium. The focus of its activities is the genetic engineering of plants. The company is best known for its work in the development of insect-resistant transgenic plants.\n\nIts origin goes back to the work of Marc Van Montagu and Jeff Schell at the University of Ghent who were among the first to assemble a practical system for genetic engineering of plants. They developed a vector system for transferring foreign genes into the plant genome, by using the Ti plasmid of Agrobacterium tumefaciens. They also found a way to make plant cells resistant to the antibiotic kanamycin by transferring a bacterial neomycin phosphotransferase gene into the plant genome. PGS was the first company (in 1985) to develop genetically engineered (tobacco) plants with insect tolerance by expressing genes encoding for insecticidal proteins from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt).\n\nThe company was founded in 1982 by Marc Van Montagu and Jeff Schell who worked at the University of Ghent, Belgium. In 1996 the company was acquired by \"AgrEvo\". In 2000, Aventis CropScience was formed through a merger of AgrEvo and Rhône-Poulenc Agro. In 2002, Bayer CropScience is formed through Bayer's acquisition of the plant biotech branch Aventis CropScience.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52122833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52122833", "title": "Pocket contract", "text": "Pocket contract\n\nA pocket contract is a land-purchase deal that abuses a loophole in the legal restrictions regulating land deals.\n\nThe term is mostly used in Hungary. Until May 2014, Hungarian laws did not allow foreigners to purchase Hungarian land. The term originally referred to land deals that omitted the date of the purchase, and the contract was kept ‘in the pocket’ until the land law is changed. The term is now used in a more general sense, and it refers to any contract that aims to circumvent the land laws.\n\nThe Győr-Moson Sopron County Agricultural Chamber has identified over 16 different types of ‘pocket contract’ over the last decade (some of them have since been excluded due to changes in the Land Tenure Act).\n\nIn February 2014, the Hungarian parliament approved a modified law on pocket contracts, which sought to make action taken by the authorities against the invalid ownership and misuse of farmland in Hungary more effective.\n\nIn May 2014, under an obligation undertaken in its EU accession agreement, Hungary lifted the ban for foreigners on purchasing Hungarian land. However, the country’s new land act ensures the possibility of purchasing land practically only to Hungarian farmers. Therefore, many foreigners that purchased Hungarian land in pocket contracts, tried to sell them to Hungarian customers.\n"}
{"id": "1160233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160233", "title": "Prison reform", "text": "Prison reform\n\nPrison and Asylums Reform is the attempt to improve conditions inside prisons, establish a more effective penal system, or implement alternatives to incarceration.\n\nIn modern times the idea of making living spaces safe and clean have spread from the civilian population to include prisons, on ethical grounds which honor that unsafe and unsanitary prisons violate constitutional (law) prohibitions against cruel and unusual punishment. In recent times prison reform ideas include greater access to legal counsel and family, conjugal visits, proactive security against violence, and implementing house arrest with assistive technology.\n\nPrisons have only been used as the primary punishment for criminal acts in the last few centuries. Far more common earlier were various types of corporal punishment, public humiliation, penal bondage, and banishment for more severe offences, as well as capital punishment.\n\nPrisons contained both felons and debtors – the latter were allowed to bring in wives and children. The jailer made his money by charging the inmates for food and drink and legal services and the whole system was rife with corruption. One reform of the sixteenth century had been the establishment of the \"London Bridewell\" as a house of correction for women and children. This was the only place any medical services were provided.\n\nDuring the eighteenth century, British justice used a wide variety of measures to punish crime, including fines, the pillory and whipping. Transportation to The United States of America was often offered, until 1776, as an alternative to the death penalty, which could be imposed for many offenses including pilfering. When they ran out of prisons in 1776 they used old sailing vessels which came to be called \"hulks\" as places of temporary confinement.\n\nThe most notable reformer was John Howard who, having visited several hundred prisons across England and Europe, beginning when he was high sheriff of Bedfordshire, published \"The State of the Prisons\" in 1777. He was particularly appalled to discover prisoners who had been acquitted but were still confined because they couldn't pay the jailer's fees. He proposed that each prisoner should be in a separate cell with separate sections for women felons, men felons, young offenders and debtors. The prison reform charity, the Howard League for Penal Reform, takes its name from John Howard.\n\nThe Penitentiary Act which passed in 1779 following his agitation introduced solitary confinement, religious instruction and a labor regime and proposed two state penitentiaries, one for men and one for women. These were never built due to disagreements in the committee and pressures from wars with France and jails remained a local responsibility. But other measures passed in the next few years provided magistrates with the powers to implement many of these reforms and eventually in 1815 jail fees were abolished.\n\nQuakers such as Elizabeth Fry continued to publicize the dire state of prisons as did Charles Dickens in his novels \"David Copperfield\" and \"Little Dorrit\" about the Marshalsea. Samuel Romilly managed to repeal the death penalty for theft in 1806, but repealing it for other similar offences brought in a political element that had previously been absent. The Society for the Improvement of Prison Discipline, founded in 1816, supported both the Panopticon for the design of prisons and the use of the treadwheel as a means of hard labor. By 1824, 54 prisons had adopted this means of discipline. Robert Peel's Gaols Act of 1823 attempted to impose uniformity in the country but local prisons remained under the control of magistrates until the Prison Act of 1877.\n\nThe American separate system attracted the attention of some reformers and led to the creation of Millbank Prison in 1816 and Pentonville prison in 1842. By now the end of transportation to Australia and the use of hulks was in sight and Joshua Jebb set an ambitious program of prison building with one large prison opening per year. The main principles were separation and hard labour for serious crimes, using treadwheels and cranks. However, by the 1860s public opinion was calling for harsher measures in reaction to an increase in crime which was perceived to come from the 'flood of criminals' released under the penal servitude system. The reaction from the committee set up under the commissioner of prisons, Colonel Edmund du Cane, was to increase minimum sentences for many offences with deterrent principles of 'hard labour, hard fare, and a hard bed'. In 1877 he encouraged Disraeli's government to remove all prisons from local government and held a firm grip on the prison system till his forced retirement in 1895. He also established a tradition of secrecy which lasted till the 1970s so that even magistrates and investigators were unable to see the insides of prisons. By the 1890s the prison population was over 20,000.\n\nIn 1894-5 Herbert Gladstone's Committee on Prisons showed that criminal propensity peaked from the mid-teens to the mid-twenties. He took the view that central government should break the cycle of offending and imprisonment by establishing a new type of reformatory, that was called \"Borstal\" after the village in Kent which housed the first one. The movement reached its peak after the first world war when Alexander Paterson became commissioner, delegating authority and encouraging personal responsibility in the fashion of the English Public school: cellblocks were designated as 'houses' by name and had a \"housemaster\". Cross-country walks were encouraged, and no one ran away. Prison populations remained at a low level until after the second world war when Paterson died and the movement was unable to update itself.\n\nSome aspects of Borstal found their way into the main prison system, including open prisons and housemasters, renamed \"assistant governors\" and many Borstal-trained prison officers used their experience in the wider service. But in general the prison system in the twentieth century remained in Victorian buildings which steadily became more and more overcrowded with inevitable results.\n\nIn colonial America, punishments were severe. The Massachusetts assembly in 1736 ordered that a thief, on first conviction, be fined or whipped. The second time he was to pay treble damages, sit for an hour upon the gallows platform with a noose around his neck and then be carted to the whipping post for thirty stripes. For the third offense he was to be hanged. But the implementation was haphazard as there was no effective police system and judges wouldn't convict if they believed the punishment was excessive. The local jails mainly held men awaiting trial or punishment and those in debt.\n\nIn the aftermath of independence most states amended their criminal punishment statutes. Pennsylvania eliminated the death penalty for robbery and burglary in 1786, and in 1794 retained it only for first degree murder. Other states followed and in all cases the answer to what alternative penalties should be imposed was incarceration. Pennsylvania turned its old jail at Walnut Street into a state prison. New York built Newgate state prison in Greenwich Village and other states followed. But by 1820 faith in the efficacy of legal reform had declined as statutory changes had no discernible effect on the level of crime and the prisons, where prisoners shared large rooms and booty including alcohol, had become riotous and prone to escapes.\n\nIn response, New York developed the Auburn system in which prisoners were confined in separate cells and prohibited from talking when eating and working together, implementing it at Auburn State Prison and Sing Sing at Ossining. The aim of this was rehabilitative: the reformers talked about the penitentiary serving as a model for the family and the school and almost all the states adopted the plan (though Pennsylvania went even further in separating prisoners). The system's fame spread and visitors to the U.S. to see the prisons included de Tocqueville who wrote Democracy in America as a result of his visit.\n\nHowever, by the 1860s, overcrowding became the rule of the day, partly because of the long sentences given for violent crimes, despite increasing severity inside the prison and often cruel methods of gagging and restraining prisoners. An increasing proportion of prisoners were new immigrants. As a result of a tour of prisons in 18 states, Enoch Wines and Theodore Dwight produced a monumental report describing the flaws in the existing system and proposing remedies. Their critical finding was that not one of the state prisons in the United States was seeking the reformation of its inmates as a primary goal. They set out an agenda for reform which was endorsed by a \"National Congress\" in Cincinnati in 1870. These ideas were put into practice in the Elmira Reformatory in New York in 1876 run by Zebulon Brockway. At the core of the design was an educational program which included general subjects and vocational training for the less capable. Instead of fixed sentences, prisoners who did well could be released early.\n\nBut by the 1890s, Elmira had twice as many inmates as it was designed for and they were not only the first offenders between 16 and 31 for which the program was intended. Although it had a number of imitators in different states, it did little to halt the deterioration of the country's prisons which carried on a dreary life of their own. In the southern states, in which blacks made up more than 75% of the inmates, there was ruthless exploitation in which the states leased prisoners as chain gangs to entrepreneurs who treated them worse than slaves. By the 1920s drug use in prisons was also becoming a problem.\n\nAt the beginning of the twentieth century, psychiatric interpretations of social deviance were gaining a central role in criminology and policy making. By 1926, 67 prisons employed psychiatrists and 45 had psychologists. The language of medicine was applied in an attempt to \"cure\" offenders of their criminality. In fact, little was known about the causes of their behaviour and prescriptions were not much different from the earlier reform methods. A system of probation was introduced, but often used simply as an alternative to suspended sentences, and the probation officers appointed had little training, and their caseloads numbered several hundred making assistance or surveillance practically impossible. At the same time they could revoke the probation status without going through another trial or other proper process.\n\nIn 1913, Thomas Mott Osborne became chairman of a commission for the reform of the New York prison system and introduced a \"Mutual Welfare League\" at Auburn with a committee of 49 prisoners appointed by secret ballot from the 1400 inmates. He also removed the striped dress uniform at Sing Sing and introduced recreation and movies. Progressive reform resulted in the \"Big House\" by the late twenties – prisons averaging 2,500 men with professional management designed to eliminate the abusive forms of corporal punishment and prison labor prevailing at the time.\n\nThe American prison system was shaken by a series of riots in the early 1950s triggered by deficiencies of prison facilities, lack of hygiene or medical care, poor food quality, and guard brutality. In the next decade all these demands were recognized as rights by the courts. In 1954, the \"American Prison Association\" changed its name to the \"American Correctional Association\" and the rehabilitative emphasis was formalized in the 1955 United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners.\n\nSince the 1960s the prison population in the US has risen steadily, even during periods where the crime rate has fallen. This is partly due to profound changes in sentencing practices due to a denunciation of lenient policies in the late sixties and early seventies and assertions that rehabilitative purposes don't work. As a consequence sentencing commissions started to establish minimum as well as maximum sentencing guidelines, which have reduced the discretion of parole authorities and also reduced parole supervision of released prisoners. Another factor that contributed to the increase of incarcerations was the Reagan administration's \"War On Drugs\" in the 1980s. This War increased money spent on lowering the number of illegal drugs in the United States. As a result, drug arrests increased and prisons became increasingly more crowded. By 2010, the United States had more prisoners than any other country and a greater percentage of its population was in prison than in any other country in the world. \"Mass incarceration\" became a serious social and economic problem, as each of the 2.3 million American prisoners costs an average of about $25,000 per year. Recidivism remained high, and useful programs were often cut during the recession of 2009–2010. In 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Brown v. Plata\" upheld the release of thousands of California prisoners due to California's inability to provide constitutionally mandated levels of healthcare.\n\nIn 2015 a bipartisan effort was launched by Koch family foundations, the ACLU, the Center for American Progress, Families Against Mandatory Minimums, the Coalition for Public Safety, and the MacArthur Foundation to more seriously address criminal justice reform in the United States. The Kochs and their partners, are combatting the systemic overcriminalization and overincarceration of citizens from primarily low-income and minority communities. The group of reformers is working to reduce recidivism rates and diminish barriers faced by rehabilitated persons seeking new employment in the work force. In addition they have a goal in ending Asset forfeiture practices since law enforcement often deprives individuals of the majority of their private property.\n\nThe first public prison in Europe was \"Le Stinch\" in Florence, constructed in 1297, copied in several other cities. The more modern use grew from the prison workhouse (known as the Rasphuis) from 1600 in Holland. The house was normally managed by a married couple, the 'father' and 'mother', usually with a work master and discipline master. The inmates, or journeymen, often spent their time on spinning, weaving and fabricating cloths and their output was measured and those who exceeded the minimum received a small sum of money with which they could buy extras from the indoor father.\n\nAn exception to the rule of forced labor were those inmates whose families could not look after them and paid for them to be in the workhouse. From the later 17th century private institutions for the insane, called the \"beterhuis\", developed to meet this need.\n\nIn Hamburg a different pattern occurred with the \"spinhaus\" in 1669, to which only infamous criminals were admitted. This was paid by the public treasury and the pattern spread in eighteenth-century Germany. In France the use of galley servitude was most common until galleys were abolished in 1748. After this the condemned were put to work in naval arsenals doing heavy work. Confinement originated from the \"hôpitaux généraux\" which were mostly asylums, though in Paris they included many convicts, and persisted up till the revolution.\n\nThe use of capital punishment and judicial torture declined during the eighteenth century and imprisonment came to dominate the system, although reform movements started almost immediately. Many countries were committed to the goal as a financially self-sustaining institution and the organization was often subcontracted to entrepreneurs, though this created its own tensions and abuse. By the mid nineteenth century several countries initiated experiments in allowing the prisoners to choose the trades in which they were to be apprenticed. The growing amount of recidivism in the latter half of the nineteenth century led a number of criminologists to argue that \"imprisonment did not, and could not fulfill its original ideal of treatment aimed at reintegrating the offender into the community\". Belgium led the way in introducing the suspended sentence for first-time offenders in 1888, followed by France in 1891 and most other countries in the next few years. Parole had been introduced on an experimental basis in France in the 1830s, with laws for juveniles introduced in 1850, and Portugal began to use it for adult criminals from 1861. The parole system introduced in France in 1885 made use of a strong private patronage network. Parole was approved throughout Europe at the International Prison Congress of 1910. As a result of these reforms the prison populations of many European countries halved in the first half of the twentieth century.\n\nExceptions to this trend included France and Italy between the world wars, when there was a huge increase in the use of imprisonment. The National Socialist state in Germany used it as an important tool to rid itself of its enemies as crime rates rocketed as a consequence of new categories of criminal behavior. Russia, which had only started to reform its penal and judicial system in 1860 by abolishing corporal punishment, continued the use of exile with hard labor as a punishment and this was increased to a new level of brutality under Joseph Stalin, despite early reforms by the Bolsheviks.\n\nPostwar reforms stressed the need for the state to tailor punishment to the individual convicted criminal. In 1965, Sweden enacted a new criminal code emphasizing non-institutional alternatives to punishment including conditional sentences, probation for first-time offenders and the more extensive use of fines. The use of probation caused a dramatic decline in the number women serving long-term sentences: in France the number fell from 5,231 in 1946 to 1,121 in 1980. Probation spread to most European countries though the level of surveillance varies. In the Netherlands, religious and philanthropic groups are responsible for much of the probationary care. The Dutch government invests heavily in correctional personnel, having 3,100 for 4,500 prisoners in 1959.\n\nHowever, despite these reforms, numbers in prison started to grow again after the 1960s even in countries committed to non-custodial policies.\n\nThis is founded on the \"eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth\" incarceration philosophy, which essentially states that if one person harms another, then an equivalent harm should be done to them. One goal here is to prevent vigilantism, gang or clan warfare, and other actions by those who have an unsatisfied need to \"get even\" for a crime against them, their family, or their group. It is, however, difficult to determine how to equate different types of \"harm\". A literal case is where a murderer is punished with the death penalty, the argument being \"justice demands a life for a life\". One criticism of long term prison sentences and other methods for achieving justice is that such \"warehousing\" of criminals is rather expensive, this argument notwithstanding the fact that the multiple incarceration appeals of a death penalty case often exceed the price of the \"warehousing\" of the criminal in question.\nYet another facet of this debate disregards the financial cost for the most part. The argument regarding warehousing rests, in this case, upon the theory that any punishment considered respectful of human rights should not include caging humans for life without chance of release—that even death is morally and ethically a higher road than no-parole prison sentences.\n\nThe criminal is used as a \"threat to themselves and others\". By subjecting prisoners to harsh conditions, authorities hope to convince them to avoid future criminal behavior and to exemplify for others the rewards for avoiding such behavior; that is, the fear of punishment will win over whatever benefit or pleasure the illegal activity might bring. The deterrence model frequently goes far beyond \"an eye for an eye\", exacting a more severe punishment than would seem to be indicated by the crime. Torture has been used in the past as a deterrent, as has the public embarrassment and discomfort of stocks, and, in religious communities, excommunication. Executions, particularly gruesome ones (such as hanging or beheading), often for petty offenses, are further examples of attempts at deterrence. One criticism of the deterrence model is that criminals typically have a rather short-term orientation, and the possibility of long-term consequences is of little importance to them. Also, their quality of life may be so horrific that any treatment within the criminal justice system (which is compatible with human rights law) will only be seen as an improvement over their previous situation.There used to be many European Monks who disagreed with the containment of the mentally ill, and their ethics had a strong influence towards Dix's mission to find a proper way to care for the challenged people.\n\n(\"Reform\" here refers to reform of the individual, not the reform of the penal system.) The goal is to \"repair\" the deficiencies in the individual and return them as productive members of society. Education, work skills, deferred gratification, treating others with respect, and self-discipline are stressed. Younger criminals who have committed fewer and less severe crimes are most likely to be successfully reformed. \"Reform schools\" and \"boot camps\" are set up according to this model. One criticism of this model is that criminals are rewarded with training and other items which would not have been available to them had they not committed a crime. \n\nPrior to its closing in late 1969, Eastern State Penitentiary, then known as State Correctional Institution, Philadelphia, had established a far reaching program of voluntary group therapy with the goal of having all inmates in the prison involved. From 1967 when the plan was initiated, the program appears to have been successful as many inmates did volunteer for group therapy. An interesting aspect was that the groups were to be led by two therapists, one from the psychology or social work department and a second from one of the officers among the prison guard staff.\n\nThe goal here is simply to keep criminals away from potential victims, thus reducing the number of crimes they can commit. The criticism of this model is that others increase the number and severity of crimes they commit to make up for the \"vacuum\" left by the removed criminal. For example, incarcerating a drug dealer will result in an unmet demand for drugs at that locale, and an existing or new drug dealer will then appear, to fill the void. This new drug dealer may have been innocent of any crimes before this opportunity, or may have been guilty of less serious crimes, such as being a look-out for the previous drug dealer.\n\nPrisoners are forced to repay their \"debt\" to society. Unpaid or low pay work is common in many prisons, often to the benefit of the community. In some countries prisons operate as labour camps. Critics say that the repayment model gives government an economic incentive to send more people to prison. In corrupt or authoritarian regimes, such as the former Soviet Union under the control of Joseph Stalin, many citizens are sentenced to forced labour for minor breaches of the law, simply because the government requires the labour camps as a source of income. Community service is increasingly being used as an alternative to prison for petty criminals.\n\nGovernment and prison officials also have the goal of minimizing short-term costs.\n\nSome of the goals of criminal justice are compatible with one another, while others are in conflict. In the history of prison reform, the harsh treatment, torture, and executions used for deterrence first came under fire as a violation of human rights. The salvation goal, and methods, were later attacked as violations of the individual's freedom of religion. This led to further reforms aimed principally at reform/correction of the individual, removal from society, and reduction of immediate costs. The perception that such reforms sometimes denied victims justice then led to further changes.\n\nJohn Howard is now widely regarded as the founding father of prison reform, having travelled extensively visiting prisons across Europe in the 1770s and 1780s. Also, the great social reformer Jonas Hanway promoted \"\"solitude in imprisonment\", with proper profitable labor and a spare diet\". Indeed, this became the popular model in England for many decades.\n\nWithin Britain, prison reform was spearheaded by the Quakers, and in particular, Elizabeth Fry during the Victorian Age. Elizabeth Fry visited prisons and suggested basic human rights for prisoners, such as privacy and teaching prisoners a trade. Fry was particularly concerned with women's rights. Parliament, coming to realize that a significant portion of prisoners had come to commit crimes as a result of mental illness, passed the County Asylums Act (1808). This made it possible for Justice of the Peace in each county to build and run their own pauper asylums.\n\n\"Whereas the practice of confining such lunatics and other insane persons as are chargeable to their respective parishes in Gaols, Houses of Correction, Poor Houses and Houses of Industry, is highly dangerous and inconvenient\"\n\nThere is contemporary research on the use of volunteers by governments to help ensure the fair and humane detention of prisoners. Research suggests that volunteers can be effective to ensure oversight of state functions and ensure accountability, however, they must be given tasks appropriately and well trained.\n\nIn the 1800s, Dorothea Dix toured prisons in the U.S. and all over Europe looking at the conditions of the mentally handicapped. Her ideas led to a mushroom effect of asylums all over the United States in the mid-19th-century. Linda Gilbert established 22 prison libraries of from 1,500 to 2,000 volumes each, in six states.\n\nIn the early 1900s Samuel June Barrows was a leader in prison reform. President Cleveland appointed him International Prison Commissioner for the U.S. in 1895, and in 1900 Barrows became Secretary of the Prison Association of New York and held that position until his death on April 21, 1909. A Unitarian pastor, Barrows used his influence as editor of the Unitarian \"Christian Register\" to speak at meetings of the National Conference of Charities and Correction, the National International Prison Congresses, and the Society for International Law. As the International Prison Commissioner for the U.S., he wrote several of today's most valuable documents of American penological literature, including \"Children's Courts in the United States\" and \"The Criminal Insane in the United States and in Foreign Countries\". As a House representative, Barrows was pivotal in the creation of the International Prison Congress and became its president in 1905. In his final role, as Secretary of the Prison Association of New York, he dissolved the association's debt, began issuing annual reports, drafted and ensured passage of New York's first probation law, assisted in the implementation of a federal Parole Law, and promoted civil service for prison employees. Moreover, Barrows advocated improved prison structures and methods, traveling in 1907 around the world to bring back detailed plans of 36 of the best prisons in 14 different countries. In 1910 the National League of Volunteer Workers, nicknamed the \"Barrows League\" in his memory, formed in New York as a group dedicated to helping released prisoners and petitioning for better prison conditions.\n\nZebulon Brockway in \"Fifty Years of Prison Service\" outlined an ideal prison system: Prisoners should support themselves in prison though industry, in anticipation of supporting themselves outside prison; outside businesses and labor must not interfere; indeterminate sentences were required, making prisoners earn their release with constructive behavior, not just the passage of time; and education and a Christian culture should be imparted. Nevertheless, opposition to prison industries, the prison-industrial complex, and labor increased. Finally, U.S. law prohibited the transport of prison-made goods across state lines. Most prison-made goods today are only for government use—but the state and federal governments are not required to meet their needs from prison industries. Although nearly every prison reformer in history believed prisoners should work usefully, and several prisons in the 1800s were profitable and self-supporting, most American prisoners today do not have productive jobs in prison.\n\nKim Kardashian-West has fought for prison reform, notably visiting the White House to visit President Donald Trump in on May 30th, 2018. \n\nMusician Johnny Cash performed and recorded at many prisons and fought for prison reform.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3261595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3261595", "title": "Ravi Batra", "text": "Ravi Batra\n\nRaveendra Nath \"Ravi\" Batra (born June 27, 1943) is an Indian-American economist, author, and professor at Southern Methodist University. Batra is the author of six bestselling books, two of which appeared on The New York Times Best Seller list, with one (The Great Depression of 1990) reaching #1 in late 1987. His books center on his idea that financial capitalism breeds excessive inequality and political corruption which inevitably succumbs to financial crisis and economic depression.\nIn his works, Batra proposes an equitable distribution system known as Progressive Utilization Theory (PROUT) as a means to not only ensure material welfare but also to secure the ability of all to develop a full personality.\n\nRavi Batra has appeared on CBS, NBC, CNN, ABC, and CNBC and has been profiled in \"The New York Times\",\n\"Time\",\nand \"Newsweek\".\nSince the financial crisis, Batra has been a frequent guest on radio shows\nand featured in numerous publications.\n\nBatra obtained his B.A. degree from Punjab University in 1963 and M.A. degree from Delhi School of Economics in 1965. In 1969 he received his Ph.D. in Economics from Southern Illinois University. He became Assistant Professor of Economics at the University of Western Ontario in 1969. He moved to Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas in 1970 to become Assistant Professor of Economics. In 1972, he became Associate Professor and in 1973 he was appointed full Professor of Economics and Head of Department at the age of 30. Prior to 1978 he published advanced theoretical articles and two books, primarily in the field of trade theory.\n\nBatra's writings should be considered in terms of the philosophy of his mentor, Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar, who has had a profound influence on him.\n\nIn 1963, Batra met his mentor, P.R. Sarkar (1921–1990), and after establishing himself in his chosen field, he decided to branch out by contributing to his mentor's work. In 1978, he published a novel book \"The Downfall of Capitalism and Communism: A New Study of History\", where he turned his gaze from theoretical economics to history. In the book Batra promoted the Social cycle theory of his spiritual mentor, Sarkar, based on an analysis of four distinct classes with different psychological preferences or endowments. At the same time, Batra has theorised that economic inequality affects economic performance and social change. He popularised the concept of the \"share of wealth held by richest 1%\", as an indicator of inequality and an important determinant of depressions.\n\nThe main thesis of the book was that the age of acquisitors, better known as capitalism, was soon to come to an end in the West. This dramatic change was to be followed by the downfall of the age of commanders in the Soviet Union, more commonly known as communism. While his predictions for capitalism to collapse within a few decades due to rampant inequality and speculation have not come true, his prediction for the collapse of communism, due to inner stasis and oppression, arrived in 1990, sooner than expected. The key reason that capitalism, as a self-perpetuating social formation, was seen to be on an unsustainable path, was the relentless drive of acquisitors to acquire ever more capital. Over time, this activity was seen to gain momentum and result in financial booms and busts. A depression would then follow and as it came on top of extreme inequality it would quickly bring social chaos and revolt. As anarchy was not a normal state of affairs, the class of military leaders would step in the breach and reestablish order and thereby usher in a new age of \"commanders\". In this context, Batra reviews a prior such social change, which occurred two millennia ago, when the Roman Republic was transformed into the Roman Empire. At that time slave uprisings were common but were violently suppressed. This period became known as the Servile Wars. At the same time, the military was in ascendancy as the Roman Army continued to expand the empire. The pivotal figure in the development was the military leader, Julius Caesar, who wrested control from the Senate by diluting its membership, but was in turn murdered by the disgruntled Senators. The military class, led by his adopted son Octavian, cemented the new social order. Batra thinks such a scenario in the future will refocus the social motivity, away from acquisition of money to a mastery of technology and physical bravery including the conquest of space, heralding a new age of commanders in the West. These ideas contrast starkly with those of thinkers like Francis Fukuyama who argues in \"The End of History and the Last Man\" that capitalism, as it is based on democracy and freedom, represents the pinnacle of human social development. For Fukuyama, the collapse of Soviet Communism could have been inevitable, but not that of Capitalism.\n\nRavi Batra is the author of six international bestsellers, two of which appeared on \"The New York Times\" list.\n\nIn 1980 he published \"Muslim Civilization and the Crisis in Iran\" where he predicted the fall of the Shah and the rise of a class of intellectuals, or Mullahs, followed by a drawn out war with Iraq. In 1984, he penned what was to become his first bestseller, first under the title \"Regular Cycles of Money, Inflation, Regulation and Depressions\". A central theme of this book was that the mal-distribution of wealth, which Batra found to be the cause of past episodes of financial speculative manias that were followed by a crash and depression. Lester Thurow was so impressed that he wrote a preface stating the ideas were \"novel and brilliant\". This book was subsequently renamed as \"The Great Depression of 1990\". It entered the New York Times Best Seller list in the Non-fiction category in early 1987 and reached #1 later that year.\n\nBatra predicted a full scale depression in the USA in 1990; it did not happen. Batra's reputation rose in Europe on account of his correct prediction for the downfall of communism when he was awarded the Medal of the Italian Senate in 1990. Batra continued to publish bestselling works in Japan with economic malaise lasting until the early 2000s. In the USA, however, his sales began to drop and his booming side-line career as a media commentator on matters economic and financial began to sour. In 1993, Batra received the Ig Nobel Prize in economics.\n\nOn September 9, 2007, Batra predicted\n\nA political revolution will take place in the United States by the end of this decade...by around 2010. And the revolution could go on for four or five years before it is complete. So, from 2010 to 2016 we could see major changes in US economy and society. It will be a peaceful revolution and it will bring an end to the rule of money in society.\n\nIn 1993, Batra published \"The Myth of Free Trade: The Pooring of America\" in which he argued that free trade has enabled the rich to become richer but most people became poorer. Batra predicted that NAFTA would create unemployment in Mexico and lower wages in America. He urged the breakup of large firms, a raise in tariffs, and a drastic cut in defense spending to turn the country around. In his view, domestic monopolies generate inequality and poverty and global trade damages the industrial base and the global environment.\n\nIn 1998, he published \"Stock Market Crashes of 1998 and 1999: The Asian Crisis and Your Future\". The book was revisiting the premise of his earlier bestselling work, arguing nothing had changed, only the palliative cures of economic policy had become more effective at suppressing the symptoms of financial capitalism, but not cure its underlying illness. He therefore predicted increasing stock market volatility. Again in 1999, he published a book \"The Crash of the Millennium: Surviving the Coming Inflationary Depression\", which suggested a plunge in stocks. The drop in high-tech stocks in the Spring of 2000 sent a shiver through the global market place. However, his critics claimed that since the capitalist system remained relatively intact, that he was proven wrong. In 2004, he wrote a new book \"Greenspan's Fraud: How Two Decades of His Policies Have Undermined the Global Economy\" where he critically evaluates the policy prescriptions of Former Federal Reserve Chief Alan Greenspan.\n\nIn 2008 he published his book, \"The New Golden Age: The Coming Revolution against Political Corruption and Economic Chaos\", where he analyzes the present day economic downturn and the forces behind it. After some significant struggle, Batra predicts a \"swift and stunning\" revival of American ideals based on true democratic principles that will quickly spread around the world:\n\nThe United States does not export much, but it does export ideas, which today mainly emit hedonism and materialism. A new standard exalting martial qualities and magnanimity will soon replace the currently dominant American ethos. It will also sound the death knell for tricklism which is creating poverty around the world. America's revolutionary ideas will quickly captivate the globe; they will spread like wildfire and eradicate poverty within a generation. The internet will make sure that the renaissance spreads its fragrance all over the planet. Verily, for the first time in history, there will be a Golden Age.(Pg. 204)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28168498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28168498", "title": "Regulatory competition", "text": "Regulatory competition\n\nRegulatory competition, also called competitive governance or policy competition, is a phenomenon in law, economics and politics concerning the desire of law makers to compete with one another in the kinds of law offered in order to attract businesses or other actors to operate in their jurisdiction. Regulatory competition depends upon the ability of actors such as companies, workers or other kinds of people to move between two or more separate legal systems. Once this is possible, then the temptation arises for the people running those different legal systems to compete to offer better terms than their \"competitors\" to attract investment. Historically, regulatory competition has operated within countries having federal systems of regulation - particularly the United States, but since the mid-20th century and the intensification of economic globalisation, regulatory competition became an important issue internationally.\n\nOne opinion is that regulatory competition in fact creates a \"race to the top\" in standards, due to the ability of different actors to select the most efficient rules by which to be governed. The main fields of law affected by the phenomenon of regulatory competition are corporate law, labour law, tax and environmental law. Another opinion is that regulatory competition between jurisdictions creates a \"race to the bottom\" in standards, due to the decreased ability of any jurisdiction to enforce standards without the cost of driving investment abroad.\n\nThe concept of regulatory competition emerged from the late 19th and early 20th century experience with charter competition among US states to attract corporations to domicile in their jurisdiction. In 1890 New Jersey enacted a liberal corporation charter, which charged low fees for company registration and lower franchise taxes than other states. Delaware attempted to copy the law to attract companies to its own state. This competition ended when Woodrow Wilson as Governor tightened New Jersey's laws again through a series of seven statutes.\n\nIn academic literature the phenomenon of regulatory competition reducing standards overall was argued for by AA Berle and GC Means in \"The Modern Corporation and Private Property\" (1932) while the concept received formal recognition by the US Supreme Court in a decision of Justice Louis Brandeis in the 1933 case \"Ligget Co. v. Lee\" In 1932 Brandeis also coined the term “laboratories of democracy” in \"New State Ice Company v. Liebmann\", noting that the Federal government was capable of ending experiment.\n\nAmerican corporate law scholars have debated on the role of the regulatory competition on corporate law for more than one decade. A Comparative Bibliography\nIn the United States legal academia, corporate law is conventionally said to be the product of a \"race\" among states to attract incorporations by making their corporate laws attractive to those who choose where to incorporate. Given that it has long been possible to incorporate in one state while doing business primarily in other states, US states have rarely been able or willing to use law tied to where a firm is incorporated to regulate or constrain corporations or those who run them. However, U.S. states have long regulated corporations with other laws (e.g., environmental laws, employment laws) that are not tied to where a firm is incorporated, but are based on where a firm does business.\n\nFrom the \"race\" to attract incorporations, Delaware has emerged as the winner, at least among publicly traded corporations. The corporate franchise tax accounts for between 15% and 20% of the state's budget.\n\nIn Europe, regulatory competition has long been prevented by the real seat doctrine prevailing in private international law of many EU and EEA member countries, which essentially required companies to be incorporated in the state where their main office was located. However, in a series of cases between 1999 and 2003 (Centros Ltd. vs. Erhvervs- og Selskabsstyrelsen, Überseering BV v Nordic Construction Company Baumanagement GmbH, Kamer van Koophandel en Fabrieken voor Amsterdam v Inspire Art Ltd.), the European Court of Justice has forced member states to recognize companies chartered in other member states, which is likely to foster regulatory competition in European company law. For instance, in 2008, Germany adopted new regulations on the GmbH (Limited Liability Company), allowing the incorporation of Limited Liability Companies without a minimum capital of EUR 25,000 (though the earnings have to be retained until this threshold is reached).\n\nCountries may, for instance, seek to attract foreign direct investment by enacting a lower minimum wage than other countries, or by making the labor market more flexible.\n\n\nLegal scholars often cite environmental law as a field in which regulatory competition is particularly likely to produce a “race to the bottom” due to the externalities produced by changes in any individual state’s environmental law. Because a state is unlikely to bear all of the costs associated with any environment damage caused by industries in that state, it has an incentive to lower standards below the level that would be desirable if the state were forced to bear all of the costs. One commonly cited example of this effect is clean air laws, as states may be incentivized to lower their standards to attract business, knowing that the effects of the increased pollution will be spread across a wide area, and not simply localized within the state. Furthermore, a reduction in the standards of one state will incentivize other states to similarly lower their standards so as to not lose business.\n\nSometimes higher-level governing bodies institute incentives to competition among lower-level governing bodies, an example being the Race to the Top program, designed by the United States Department of Education to spur reforms in state and local district K-12 education.\n\nThe German Federal Ministry of Education and Research likewise has initiated a program called InnoRegio to reward innovative practices.\n\nThe high degree of politicization of the genetically modified organism issue made it a key battleground for competition for leadership, particularly between the European Commission and the European Council of Ministers. The result has been a protracted battle over agenda setting and issue framing and a cycle of competitive regulatory reinforcement.\n\nThe struggle between insurgents and various Afghanistan states for power, control, popular support and legitimacy in the eyes of the public has been described as competitive governance.\n\nWhile during the Cold War security was provided by centralized institutions such as NATO and the Warsaw Pact, now competing profit-seeking firms provide personal, national, and international security.\n\nArnold Kling notes, \"In democratic government, people take jurisdictions as given, and they elect leaders. In competitive government, people take leaders as given, and they select jurisdictions.\" Competitive governance has thus far not produced an ultra-libertarian government; although Zac Gochenour has pointed out the role of potential international migrants' switching costs in hindering consumer choice from creating greater intergovernmental competition, Bryan Caplan has stated that \"[t]he bigger problem is that almost all existing governments are either non-profits (the democracies), have short time horizons (the unstable dictatorships), or reasonably worry that if they liberalize they're lose power (the stable dictatorships).\" Indeed, it has been argued by Maria Brouwer that most autocracies prefer stagnation to the vagaries inherent to expansion and other forms of innovation, since the exploration of new possibilities could lead to failure, which would undermine autocratic authority. There has been some question as to whether competitive governance can be revived in Australia.\n\nBrennan and Buchanan (1980) argue that the public sector is a 'Leviathan' which is inherently biased towards extracting money from taxpayers, but that competitive government structures can minimize such exploitation. It has also been argued that a decentralized competitive government structure allows for an experimentation of new public policies without doing too much harm if they fail.\n\nAn alternative to market-based or competitive governance is civic-based or partnership governance. Alleged disadvantages of competitive governance, compared to collaborative government, include less potential to harness the power of knowledge sharing, cooperation and collaboration within government.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "324073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324073", "title": "Respect diversity", "text": "Respect diversity\n\nThe prerogative to respect diversity, often said to \"begin with biodiversity\" of non-human life, is basic to some 20th-century studies, such as cultural ecology, Queer studies, and anthropological linguistics.\n\nIn various forms it is promoted by many political movements, most notably feminism, gay rights, green politics , animal rights and the anti-globalization movement. However it means somewhat different things in each of these. To some, diversity means bio-diversity and the existence of several distinct races and cultures. To others, diversity means the mixing and reunification of races and cultures into one, as per the melting pot idea.\n\nPrescriptions to respect (non-biological) diversity are common in:\n\nCriticisms include the opinion that the tenet advocates black power, xenocentrism and misandry (female chauvinism), focused too much on the victim status of people who are not male or Caucasian, belief that the concept threatens sovereignty (or even cultural diversity in itself), and inhibits free speech.\n\nThe Green Party of the United States discusses a respect for diversity as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "3005463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3005463", "title": "Ruskin, British Columbia", "text": "Ruskin, British Columbia\n\nRuskin is a rural, naturally-treed community, about 35 miles (56 kilometres) east of Vancouver on the north shore of the Fraser River. It was named around 1900 after of the English art critic, essayist, and prominent social thinker John Ruskin.\n\nRuskin is one of the historical communities of the municipality of Maple Ridge. In that context Ruskin borders on its west side with the community of Whonnock by the Whonnock Creek and the Whonnock Reserve, and on the east side with the municipality of Mission. The border to the south is the Fraser River and to the north the point where Whonnock Creek crosses the Mission borderline. Ruskin touches the Stave River at the tip of the southwest corner where the Stave River flows into the Fraser River.\n\nThe area generally understood as Ruskin goes beyond those boundaries. Ruskin in a social sense straddles the municipal border of Maple Ridge and Mission. In that close-knit community there was and is no border separating residents from Maple Ridge from those in Mission. Residents who lived and are still living along the western shore of the lower Stave River, even if they live in the municipality of Mission, consider their neighbourhood as Ruskin.\n\nPermanent white settlers only came to the Ruskin area after the inauguration of the transcontinental railroad in 1885. The Whonnock First Nation claimed land along the Fraser River between the Stave River and Whonnock Creek as theirs but this land was not included in the Whonnock Indian Reserve and was released for settlement.\n\nThe entire area on both sides of the Stave River, including Whonnock and Ruskin, was originally referred to as Stave River. Over time the settlers gave distinctive names to the places where they lived in that large area. For Ruskin the opening of a post office made its name official. That happened with the nomination of a postmaster on January 1, 1898.\n\nMembers of the Canadian Co-operative Society, formed in Mission, BC, in 1895, gave the name Ruskin Mills to a sawmill and to the settlement they established at the mouth of the Stave River in present-day Ruskin.\n\nAlthough nothing in the constitution and bylaws of the Society alludes to the formation of an utopian Ruskin socialist colony, some leading members sympathized with and discussed Ruskin's social ideas frequently.\n\nAt first the Canadian Co-operative Society was a success. In 1897 the co-operative counted 54 members, most living close to the mill. There they had built homes and barns and a boarding house. Aside from the sawmill and a logging operation, the members had set up a general store, a smithy, and a shoemaker's shop. They also ran a dairy and a vegetable farm. Not less than thirty students—mostly the members' children—attended the first school in Ruskin in the spring of 1897.\n\nThe year 1898 was the last year of the co-operative in Ruskin. In the traditional way, logs were pulled by horses or oxen to Stave River and floated down to the mill but due to a rainless summer the Stave River dried up and logs could not be moved to the mill. Lacking money and facing potential bankruptcy the Society surrendered its assets to E.H. Heaps & Co. who had supplied the machinery for the mill on credit.\n\nMost members moved away. Only a few members stayed and worked at the mill for a year or so.\n\nHeaps & Co. turned the small Ruskin mill into a progressive operation. They started expanding and upgrading the mill and horse or oxen logging was replaced by steam and railway logging. Heaps built a logging rail line that grew northwest until it reached Dewdney Trunk Road and down a short distance along the east side of Kanaka Creek.\n\nAcross the CPR rail track, on the shore of the Fraser River, was Heaps office building that also accommodated the general store and post office as well living quarters for senior staff and their families.\n\nThe Heaps mill at Ruskin burned down in the winter of 1904/1905 and was rebuilt, only to burn down again in 1910. Plans to rebuild the mill failed when no money could be raised by the company. There were plans and promises for a new and even larger mill but Heaps's Ruskin logging and lumber operations went in receivership after the building boom in Vancouver crashed in 1913.\n\nAs Heaps's operation came to an end, a shingle mill started operations on the Stave River less than half a mile upriver from the ruins of the Heaps mill and just across the municipal border line in Mission. Stoltze Manufacturing Co. was American-owned. Their shingle mill at Stave River started operating in 1912. Because their main market was in the United States and not the depressed local market. Stoltze went from strength to strength right from the start. The company owned tree-limits but could soon count on a continuous supply of cedar when Abernethy-Lougheed won the contract for 8,000 acres of timber at Stave Lake in 1914. In the 1920s Stoltze was the largest shingle mill in British Columbia. Stoltze's success depended heavily on the employment of in particular Japanese workers in the woods and in the mill. The 1930 depression hit the mill hard and it closed during the Second World War.\n\nAfter the First World War, Japanese started farming in Ruskin; mostly growing raspberries and strawberries. In the 1930s there were about thirty registered Japanese landowners in Ruskin. Some seventy-five percent of the Ruskin population was Japanese. Photos of school classes of that time show that not more than a handful of the students of the Ruskin elementary school were of European origin. The Japanese settlers had their own community hall on 280th Street. There were Japanese logging operations in the area and a couple of small Japanese sawmills. That all ended with the expulsion and Japanese-Canadian internment in 1942.\nWith the Japanese began and ended any significant type of agriculture in the community.\n\nThe mills and the businesses of Ruskin were and are all in the south-east corner of Ruskin close to where the Stave River joins the Fraser River, close to the rail tracks and since 1930 present-day Lougheed Highway.\n\nAlready the Canadian Co-operative Society had a general store and later Heaps had one in their building, together with the postoffice. The shop continued to be in that building even after Heaps stopped their Ruskin operation. In 1924, the Cash Grocery store to a new building on the north side of the railway tracks, where it served the community for more than half a century. The building was demolished for the widening of Lougheed Highway. A small shop, mostly combined with a gas station serves the area today.\n\nThe Ruskin railway station, built in 1910, stood here until there were no longer enough passengers to warrant a stop of the scheduled trains. The building was dismantled in 1961.\n\nLumber remained the main industry of Ruskin. With the station also the resident C.P.R agent disappeared, whose services the industry thought to be \"absolutely essential.\"\n\nAfter Heaps took over the operation of former Ruskin Mills the school moved to a location on 96th Avenue at the foot of 284th Street. That is where the school stayed until it was closed in 1998. After that Ruskin students attended the Whonnock Elementary School.\n\nFor their community events the residents of Ruskin assembled in the schoolhouse or occasionally in the Heaps building. When in 1916 the old schoolhouse was replaced by a two-room building, the residents pulled the old structure across the street and made it their community hall. That first building burned down in 1922—the date shown on the front of the hall today—and was replaced by the present structure, opened in 1924. The hall is owned and operated by Ruskin Community Hall Association, incorporated in 1930.\n\nRuskin Dam is in the District of Mission, standing at the narrowest point of what had been the Stave River canyon, was completed in 1930 for purpose of hydroelectric power generation. The dam's reservoir is named Hayward Lake, named after one of the company's engineer, and is about 4.5 miles in length. A small employees' village or camp adjacent to the facility is also referred to informally as Ruskin Dam. Before the project, there had been a hunting and fishing lodge still in use as a private residence, and a couple of small farms.\n\nHigher up on the Stave River is the Stave Dam (actually two dams flanking what is now technically an island), built over Stave Falls, once a natural feature of the Stave River and now the name of the community stretching from the dam west along Dewdney Trunk Road as far as Wilson Street, which is the continuation of what Maple Ridge designates as 287th Street (formerly 34th Avenue). The falls is a dry falls now, below Blind Slough Dam, one of the two dams forming Stave Lake; the Stave Falls Powerhouse is immediately below the main dam, which is the western pair of the two. It is now a museum and visitor centre. \n\nIn 1899, the year when Heaps took over the Ruskin mill, the Stave Lake Power Company was formed and subsequently obtained permission from the province to use the water of the river at the Stave Falls to generate electric power. It took more than a decade to make that a reality. Only in December 1911 did their successor, the Western Canada Power Company, see power starting to flow from the Stave Dam plant.\n\nThe Stave Falls Branch, an electric railway built by the British Columbia Electric Railway Company in 1910, connected the CPR line at Ruskin with the construction site. The traffic generated by the activities around the Stave Falls dam convinced the CPR to approve the building of a rail station at Ruskin that same year – one of the many things by which the residents of Ruskin profited from what happened in their backyard. The railway's track-grade is still extant through the community, and the portion of it along Hayward Lake is now a walking trail; some of its trestles still stand in ruins, partly demolished to keep people from climbing on them. The trail is part of a 10 km circuit around the lake which returns to Ruskin Dam on the east side of the lake, which was built by prisoners from the correctional centres in Mission. The older rail grade, from before the dam was built, can also be discerned below Ruskin Dam, with tracks rising out of the water a mile or so below Stave Falls Dam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19000243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19000243", "title": "Stein Rokkan Prize for Comparative Social Science Research", "text": "Stein Rokkan Prize for Comparative Social Science Research\n\nThe Stein Rokkan Prize for Comparative Social Science Research is an academic honour awarded by the International Science Council (ISC), the University of Bergen and the European Consortium for Political Research (ECPR), in memory of the political scientist and sociologist Stein Rokkan (prior to the 2018 formation of the International Science Council from the merger of the International Social Science Council (ISSC) and the International Council for Science, the prize was awarded by the International Social Science Council). It is awarded to scholars making \"a very substantial and original contribution in comparative social science research\". These contributions can be in the form of book-length, unpublished manuscripts, published books, or collections of works published no more than two years prior to the award year. The prize is awarded annually and is worth $5000.\n\nAccording to a reputation survey conducted in 2013 and 2014, the Stein Rokkan Prize is the second most prestigious international academic award in political science, after the Johan Skytte Prize in Political Science. A reputation survey conducted in 2018 found the Stein Rokkan Prize to be the most prestigious interdisciplinary award in the social sciences (jointly with the Holberg Prize).\n\nSources: ISSC, ECPR and European University Institute\n\n"}
{"id": "216143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216143", "title": "Sustainable agriculture", "text": "Sustainable agriculture\n\nSustainable agriculture is farming in sustainable ways based on an understanding of ecosystem services, the study of relationships between organisms and their environment. \n\nThe phrase 'sustainable agriculture' was reportedly coined by the Australian agricultural scientist Gordon McClymont.\nWes Jackson is credited with the first publication of the expression in his 1980 book \"New Roots for Agriculture\".\nThe term became popular in the late 1980s.\n\nIt has been defined as \"an integrated system of plant and animal production practices having a site-specific application that will last over the long term\", for example to satisfy human food and fiber needs, to enhance environmental quality and the natural resource base upon which the agricultural economy depends, to make the most efficient use of non-renewable and on-farm resources and integrate natural biological cycles and controls, to sustain the economic viability of farm operations, and to enhance the quality of life for farmers and society as a whole.\n\nThere are several key principles associated with sustainability in agriculture:\n\n\nSustainable agriculture can be understood as an ecosystem approach to agriculture. Practices that can cause long-term damage to soil include excessive tilling of the soil (leading to erosion) and irrigation without adequate drainage (leading to salinization). Long-term experiments have provided some of the best data on how various practices affect soil properties essential to sustainability. In the United States a federal agency, USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service, specializes in providing technical and financial assistance for those interested in pursuing natural resource conservation and production agriculture as compatible goals.\n\nThe most important factors for an individual site are sun, air, soil, nutrients, and water. Of the five, water and soil quality and quantity are most amenable to human intervention through time and labor.\n\nAlthough air and sunlight are available everywhere on Earth, crops also depend on soil nutrients and the availability of water. When farmers grow and harvest crops, they remove some of these nutrients from the soil. Without replenishment, land suffers from nutrient depletion and becomes either unusable or suffers from reduced yields. Sustainable agriculture depends on replenishing the soil while minimizing the use or need of non-renewable resources, such as natural gas (used in converting atmospheric nitrogen into synthetic fertilizer), or mineral ores (e.g., phosphate). Possible sources of nitrogen that would, in principle, be available indefinitely, include:\n\n\nThe last option was proposed in the 1970s, but is only gradually becoming feasible. Sustainable options for replacing other nutrient inputs such as phosphorus and potassium are more limited.\n\nMore realistic, and often overlooked, options include long-term crop rotations, returning to natural cycles that annually flood cultivated lands (returning lost nutrients indefinitely) such as the flooding of the Nile, the long-term use of biochar, and use of crop and livestock landraces that are adapted to less than ideal conditions such as pests, drought, or lack of nutrients. Crops that require high levels of soil nutrients can be cultivated in a more sustainable manner with appropriate fertilizer management practices.\n\nIn some areas sufficient rainfall is available for crop growth, but many other areas require irrigation. For irrigation systems to be sustainable, they require proper management (to avoid salinization) and must not use more water from their source than is naturally replenishable. Otherwise, the water source effectively becomes a non-renewable resource. Improvements in water well drilling technology and submersible pumps, combined with the development of drip irrigation and low-pressure pivots, have made it possible to regularly achieve high crop yields in areas where reliance on rainfall alone had previously made successful agriculture unpredictable. However, this progress has come at a price. In many areas, such as the Ogallala Aquifer, the water is being used faster than it can be replenished.\n\nSeveral steps must be taken to develop drought-resistant farming systems even in \"normal\" years with average rainfall. These measures include both policy and management actions:\n\nIndicators for sustainable water resource development are:\n\n\nSoil erosion is fast becoming one of the world's severe problems. It is estimated that \"more than a thousand million tonnes of southern Africa's soil are eroded every year. Experts predict that crop yields will be halved within thirty to fifty years if erosion continues at present rates.\" Soil erosion is occurring worldwide. The phenomenon is being called \"peak soil\" as present large-scale factory farming techniques are jeopardizing humanity's ability to grow food in the present and in the future. Without efforts to improve soil management practices, the availability of arable soil will become increasingly problematic. Intensive agriculture reduces the carbon level in soil, impairing soil structure, crop growth and ecosystem functioning, and accelerating climate change. Soil management techniques include no-till farming, keyline design, windbreaks to reduce wind erosion, incorporating carbon-containing organic matter back into fields, reducing chemical fertilizers, and protecting soil from water run-off.\n\nPhosphate is a primary component in chemical fertilizer. It is the second most important nutrient for plant after nitrogen, and is often a limiting factor. It is important for sustainable agriculture as it can improve soil fertility and crop yields. Phosphorus is involved in all major metabolic processes including photosynthesis, energy transfer, signal transduction, macromolecular biosynthesis, and respiration. It is needed for root ramification and strength and seed formation, and can increase disease resistance.\n\nPhosphorus is found in the soil in both inorganic and organic forms and makes up approximately 0.05% of soil biomass. However, only 0.1% of that phosphorus present can be absorbed by plants. This is due to poor solubility and phosphorus' high reactivity with elements in the soil such as aluminum, calcium, and iron, causing the phosphorus to be fixed. Long-term use of phosphate-containing chemical fertilizers cause eutrophication and deplete soil fertility, so people have looked to other sources.\n\nAn alternative is rock phosphate, a natural source already in some soils. In India, there are almost 260 million tons of rock phosphate. However, rock phosphate is a non-renewable resource and it is being depleted by mining for agricultural use: reserves are expected to be exhausted in 50–100 years; peak phosphorus will occur in about 2030. This is expected to increase food prices as phosphate fertilizer costs increase.\n\nA way to make rock phosphate more effective and last longer is to implement microbial inoculants such as phosphate-solubilizing microorganisms, known as PSMs. A source of these PSMs is compost or the recycling of human and animal waste. Specific PSMs can be added to soil. These solubilize phosphorus already in the soil and use processes like organic acid production and ion exchange reactions to make that phosphorus available for plants. When these PSMs are present, there has been an increase in crop growth, particularly in terms of shoot height, dry biomass, and grain yield.\n\nPhosphorus uptake is even more efficient with the presence of mycorrhizae in the soil. Mycorrhiza is a type of mutualistic symbiotic association between plants and fungi, which are well-equipped to absorb nutrients, including phosphorus, in soil. These fungi can increase nutrient uptake in soil where phosphorus has been fixed by aluminum, calcium, and iron. Mycorrhizae can also release organic acids that solubilize otherwise unavailable phosphorus.\n\nAs the global population increases and demand for food increases, there is pressure on land resources. In land use planning and management, considering the impacts of land use changes on factors such as soil erosion can support long-term agricultural sustainability, as shown by a study of Wadi Ziqlab, a dry area in the Middle East where farmers graze livestock and grow olives, vegetables, and grains.\n\nLooking back over the 20th century shows that for people in poverty, following environmentally sound land practices has not always been a viable option due to many complex and challenging life circumstances. Currently, increased land degradation in developing countries may be connected with rural poverty among smallholder farmers when forced into unsustainable agricultural practices out of necessity. \n\nLand is a finite resource on Earth. And although expansion of agricultural land can decrease biodiversity and contribute to deforestation, the picture is complex; for instance, a study examining the introduction of sheep by Norse settlers (Vikings) to the Faroe Islands of the North Atlantic concluded that, over time, the fine partitioning of land plots contributed more to soil erosion and degradation than grazing itself. \n\nThe Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations estimates that in coming decades, cropland will continue to be lost to industrial and urban development, along with reclamation of wetlands, and conversion of forest to cultivation, resulting in the loss of biodiversity and increased soil erosion. Many tools will be called upon to offset these projections. In Europe, one such tool is a geo-spatial data system called SoilConsWeb which is being developed to inform soil conservation minded decision making within agricultural sectors and other areas of land management.\n\nEnergy is used all the way down the food chain from farm to fork. In industrial agriculture, energy is used in on-farm mechanisation, food processing, storage, and transportation processes. It has therefore been found that energy prices are closely linked to food prices. Oil is also used as an input in agricultural chemicals. The International Energy Agency projects higher prices of non-renewable energy resources as a result of fossil fuel resources being depleted. It may therefore decrease global food security unless action is taken to 'decouple' fossil fuel energy from food production, with a move towards 'energy-smart' agricultural systems including renewable energy.\nThe use of solar powered irrigation in Pakistan has come to be recognized as a leading example of energy use in creating a closed system for water irrigation in agricultural activity.\n\nSocioeconomic aspects of sustainability are also partly understood. Regarding less concentrated farming, the best known analysis is Netting's study on smallholder systems through history.\n\nGiven the finite supply of natural resources at any specific cost and location, agriculture that is inefficient or damaging to needed resources may eventually exhaust the available resources or the ability to afford and acquire them. It may also generate negative externality, such as pollution as well as financial and production costs. There are several studies incorporating these negative externalities in an economic analysis concerning ecosystem services, biodiversity, land degradation and sustainable land management. These include The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity study led by Pavan Sukhdev and the Economics of Land Degradation Initiative which seeks to establish an economic cost benefit analysis on the practice of sustainable land management and sustainable agriculture.\n\nThe way that crops are sold must be accounted for in the sustainability equation. Food sold locally does not require additional energy for transportation (including consumers). Food sold at a remote location, whether at a farmers' market or the supermarket, incurs a different set of energy cost for materials, labour, and transport.\n\nPursuing sustainable agriculture results in many localized benefits. Having the opportunities to sell products directly to consumers, rather than at wholesale or commodity prices, allows farmers to bring in optimal profit.\n\nTriple bottom line frameworks (including social and environmental aspects alongside the financial) show that a sustainable company can be technologically and economically feasible. For this to happen, growth in material consumption and population need to be slowed down and there has to be a drastic increase in the efficiency of material and energy use. To make that transition, long- and short-term goals will need to be balanced enhancing equity and quality of life.\n\nWhat grows where and how it is grown are a matter of choice. Two of the many possible practices of sustainable agriculture are crop rotation and soil amendment, both designed to ensure that crops being cultivated can obtain the necessary nutrients for healthy growth. Soil amendments would include using locally available compost from community recycling centers. These community recycling centers help produce the compost needed by the local organic farms.\n\nUsing community recycling from yard and kitchen waste utilizes a local area's commonly available resources. These resources in the past were thrown away into large waste disposal sites, are now used to produce low cost organic compost for organic farming. Other practices includes growing a diverse number of perennial crops in a single field, each of which would grow in separate season so as not to compete with each other for natural resources. This system would result in increased resistance to diseases and decreased effects of erosion and loss of nutrients in soil. Nitrogen fixation from legumes, for example, used in conjunction with plants that rely on nitrate from soil for growth, helps to allow the land to be reused annually. Legumes will grow for a season and replenish the soil with ammonium and nitrate, and the next season other plants can be seeded and grown in the field in preparation for harvest.\n\nMonoculture, a method of growing only one crop at a time in a given field, is a very widespread practice, but there are questions about its sustainability, especially if the same crop is grown every year. Today it is realized to get around this problem local cities and farms can work together to produce the needed compost for the farmers around them. This combined with growing a mixture of crops (polyculture) sometimes reduces disease or pest problems but polyculture has rarely, if ever, been compared to the more widespread practice of growing different crops in successive years (crop rotation) with the same overall crop diversity. Such methods may also support sustainable weed management in that the development of herbicide-resistant weeds is reduced. Cropping systems that include a variety of crops (polyculture and/or rotation) may also replenish nitrogen (if legumes are included) and may also use resources such as sunlight, water, or nutrients more efficiently (Field Crops Res. 34:239).\n\nReplacing a natural ecosystem with a few specifically chosen plant varieties reduces the genetic diversity found in wildlife and makes the organisms susceptible to widespread disease. The Great Irish Famine (1845–1849) is a well-known example of the dangers of monoculture.\nIn practice, there is no single approach to sustainable agriculture, as the precise goals and methods must be adapted to each individual case. There may be some techniques of farming that are inherently in conflict with the concept of sustainability, but there is widespread misunderstanding on effects of some practices. Today the growth of local farmers' markets offer small farms the ability to sell the products that they have grown back to the cities that they got the recycled compost from. This will help move people away from the slash-and-burn or slash-and-char techniques that are the characteristic feature of shifting cultivation. These are often cited as inherently destructive, yet slash-and-burn cultivation has been practiced in the Amazon for at least 6000 years. Serious deforestation did not begin until the 1970s, largely as the result of Brazilian government programs and policies.\n\nThere are also many ways to practice sustainable animal husbandry. Some of the key tools to grazing management include fencing off the grazing area into smaller areas called paddocks, lowering stock density, and moving the stock between paddocks frequently.\n\nIn light of concerns about food security, human population growth and dwindling land suitable for agriculture, sustainable intensive farming practises are needed to maintain high crop yields, while maintaining soil health and ecosystem services. The capacity for ecosystem services to be strong enough to allow a reduction in use of synthetic, non renewable inputs whilst maintaining or even boosting yields has been the subject of much debate. Recent work in the globally important irrigated rice production system of east Asia has suggested that - in relation to pest management at least - promoting the ecosystem service of biological control using nectar plants can reduce the need for insecticides by 70% whilst delivering a 5% yield advantage compared with standard practice.\n\nSoil steaming can be used as an ecological alternative to chemicals for soil sterilization. Different methods are available to induce steam into the soil in order to kill pests and increase soil health.\n\nSolarizing is based on the same principle, used to increase the temperature of the soil to kill pathogens and pests.\n\nCertain crops act as natural biofumigants, releasing pest suppressing compounds. Mustard, radishes, and other plants in the brassica family are best known for this effect. There exist varieties of mustard shown to be almost as effective as synthetic fumigants at a similar or lesser cost.\n\nA farm that is able to \"produce perpetually\", yet has negative effects on environmental quality elsewhere is not sustainable agriculture. An example of a case in which a global view may be warranted is over-application of synthetic fertilizer or animal manures, which can improve productivity of a farm but can pollute nearby rivers and coastal waters (eutrophication). The other extreme can also be undesirable, as the problem of low crop yields due to exhaustion of nutrients in the soil has been related to rainforest destruction, as in the case of slash and burn farming for livestock feed. In Asia, specific land for sustainable farming is about 12.5 acres which includes land for animal fodder, cereals productions lands for some cash crops and even recycling of related food crops. In some cases even a small unit of aquaculture is also included in this number (AARI-1996). \n\nSustainability affects overall production, which must increase to meet the increasing food and fiber requirements as the world's human population expands to a projected 9.3 billion people by 2050. Increased production may come from creating new farmland, which may ameliorate carbon dioxide emissions if done through reclamation of desert as in Israel and Palestine, or may worsen emissions if done through slash and burn farming, as in Brazil.\n\nAs the Earth is entering the Anthropocene, an epoch characterized by human impacts such as climate change, agriculture and agricultural development are at risk. Agriculture has an enormous environmental footprint, and is simultaneously leading to huge amounts of environmental changes globally and being hugely impacted by these global changes. Additionally, the human population is continuing to grow rapidly at a rate which will require an increase in food production globally. This is complicated by the fact that the Earth is undergoing rising amounts of environmental risks. Sustainable agriculture provides a potential solution to enable agricultural systems to feed a growing population while successfully operating within the changing environmental conditions.\n\nIn 2007, the United Nations reported on \"Organic Agriculture and Food Security\", stating that using organic and sustainable agriculture could be used as a tool to reach global food security without expanding land usage and reducing environmental impacts. Another way to define sustainable agriculture is to give attention to the \"human and environmental aspects,\" because of the turn to a more unsustainable way of farming in U.S. agriculture. During the Great Depression in the United States many farming families were living in subhuman and hungry conditions and treated \"sustainability as a resource-input and food-output equation.\" Though conditions have improved, the farming has not as much done so. There has been evidence provided by developing nations from the early 2000s stating that when people in their communities are not factored into the agricultural process that serious harm is done. Although global food security would most likely not drastically fall, these practices would impact, first hand, local, rural farming communities, making them unable to feed themselves and their families. The social scientist Charles Kellogg has stated that, \"In a final effort, exploited people pass their suffering to the land.\" This turn to more unsustainable farming has seen suffering for many people. For if something is sustainable, it should be that way in all aspects of it, not just the crop yield or soil health. It has been seen in the developing country of Bangladesh, the starving of rural farming communities due to their unsustainable farming methods. Sustainable agriculture mean the ability to permanently and continuously \"feed its constituent populations.\"\n\nThere are a lot of opportunities that can increase farmers’ profits, better communities, and continue sustainable practices. For example, in Uganda Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) were originally illegal, however, under stressful circumstances where Banana Bacterial Wilt (BBW) has the potential to wipe out 90% of yield they decided to explore GMOs as a possible solution . Therefore, as a result of the banana crisis in Uganda caused by the BBW, the government issued the National Biotechnology and Biosafety bill which will allow scientists that are part of the National Banana Research Program to start experimenting with genetically modified organisms. This effort has the potential to help local communities because a significant portion live off the food they grow themselves and it will keep their economy in check because their main sources of produce will remain stable. \n\nIn the past 30 years (1978-2007) in the United States the number of women farm operators has tripled. Today, women operate 14 percent of farms, compared to five percent in 1978. Much of the growth is due to women farming outside the \"male dominated field of conventional agriculture\". In community supported agriculture women represent 40 percent of farm operators, and 21 percent of organic farmers. With the change of laws in land ownership over the past century, women are now allowed all the same freedom of land ownership that men have.\n\nSustainable agriculture has become a topic of interest in the international policy arena, especially with regards to its potential to reduce the risks associated with a changing climate and growing human population.\n\nThe Commission on Sustainable Agriculture and Climate Change, as part of its recommendations for policy makers on achieving food security in the face of climate change, urged that sustainable agriculture must be integrated into national and international policy. The Commission stressed that increasing weather variability and climate shocks will negatively affect agricultural yields, necessitating early action to drive change in agricultural production systems towards increasing resilience. It also called for dramatically increased investments in sustainable agriculture in the next decade, including in national research and development budgets, land rehabilitation, economic incentives, and infrastructure improvement.\n\nMost agricultural professionals agree that there is a \"moral obligation to pursue [the] goal [of] sustainability.\" The major debate comes from what system will provide a path to that goal. Because if an unsustainable method is used on a large scale it will have a massive negative effect on the environment and human population. The best way to create policy for agriculture is to be free of any bias. A good review would be done with \"practical wisdom,\" a virtue identified by Aristotle, distinguishing practical wisdom from scientific knowledge, this coming from Nichomachean Ethics. The science of agriculture is called \"agronomy\", the root of this word relating to scientific law. Although agriculture may not fit well under scientific law, and may not be designed to be treated as an Aristotelian scientific knowledge, but more practical wisdom. Practical wisdom requires recognition of past failures in agriculture to better attain a more sustainable agricultural system.\n\nThe use of available city space (e.g., rooftop gardens, community gardens, garden sharing, and other forms of urban agriculture) for cooperative food production may be able to contribute to sustainability.\nA recent idea (2014) is to create large, urban, technical facilities for Vertical farming. Potential advantages include year-round production, isolation from pests and diseases, controllable resource recycling, and reduced transportation costs.\n\nIncreasing threats of climate change have influenced cities and public offiials are thinking more proactively about the ways they can deliver services and food more efficiently. The environmental cost of transportation could be avoided if people take back their connection to fresh food. This raises questions; however, about the excess environmental costs associated with local farming vs more large scale operations which offer food security around the world.\n\nThere are several key debates involving sustainable agriculture:\n\nThe main debate on how sustainable agriculture might be achieved centers around two different approaches: an ecocentric approach and a technocentric approach. The ecocentric approach emphasizes no- or low-growth levels of human development, and focuses on organic and biodynamic farming techniques with the goal of changing consumption patterns, and resource allocation and usage. The technocentric approach argues that sustainability can be attained through a variety of strategies, from the view that state-led modification of the industrial system like conservation-oriented farming systems should be implemented, to the argument that biotechnology is the best way to meet the increasing demand for food.\n\nThere are different scientific communities that are looking at the topic of sustainable agriculture through two separate lenses: multifunctional agriculture (MFA) and ecosystem services (ES). While both of these frameworks are similar, they look at the function of agriculture in different lights. Those that employ the multifunctional agriculture philosophy focus on farm-centered approaches, and define function as being the outputs of agricultural activity. The central argument of MFA is that agriculture has other functions aside from the production of food and fiber, and therefore agriculture is a multifunctional enterprise. These additional functions include renewable natural resource management and conservation of landscape and biodiversity. On the other hand, ES focuses on service-centered approaches, and defines function as the provision of services to human beings. Specifically, ES posits that individuals and society as a whole receive benefits from ecosystems, which are called ecosystem services. Within the field of sustainable agriculture, the services that ecosystems provide include pollination, soil formation, and nutrient cycling, all of which are necessary functions for the production of food.\n\nSince World War II, dominant models of agriculture in the United States and the entire national food system have been characterized by a focus on monetary profitability at the expense of social and environmental integrity.\n\nIn sustainable agriculture, changes in lower rates of soil and nutrient loss, improved soil structure, and higher levels of beneficial microorganisms are not quick. The changes are not immediately evident to the operate when using sustainable agriculture. In conventional agriculture the benefits are easily visible with no weeds, pests, etc. and the \"process of externalization\" hides the costs to soil and ecosystems around it. A major barrier to sustainable agriculture is the lack of knowledge of its benefits. Many benefits are not visible, so they are often unknown.\n\nEfforts toward more sustainable agriculture are supported in the sustainability community, however, these are often viewed only as incremental steps and not as an end. Some foresee a true sustainable steady state economy that may be very different from today's: greatly reduced energy usage, minimal ecological footprint, fewer consumer packaged goods, local purchasing with short food supply chains, little processed foods, more home and community gardens, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "368897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368897", "title": "Swedish Security Service", "text": "Swedish Security Service\n\nThe Swedish Security Service ( , abbreviated Säpo, until 1989 \" Rikspolisstyrelsens säkerhetsavdelning\" abbreviated RPS/Säk) is a Swedish government agency organised under the Ministry of Justice. It operates like a security agency responsible for counter-espionage, counter-terrorism, the protection of dignitaries and the constitution. The Swedish Security Service is also tasked with investigating crimes against national security and terrorist crimes. Its main mission, however, is to prevent crimes, and not to investigate them. Crime prevention is to a large extent based on information acquired via contacts with the regular police force, other authorities and organisations, foreign intelligence and security services, and with the use of various intelligence gathering activities, including interrogations, telephone tapping, covert listening devices and hidden surveillance cameras. \n\nThe Service was, in its present form, founded in 1989, as part of the National Police Board and became an autonomous police agency on 1 January 2015. National headquarters are located at Bolstomtavägen in south-east Solna since 2014, drawing together personnel from five different locations into a single HQ facility.\n\nThe origins of the Swedish Security Service is often linked to the establishment of a special police bureau (\"Polisbyrån\") during the First World War in 1914, which reported directly to the General Staff, predecessor of the Office for the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. The bureau's main mission was protecting national security (e.g. counter-espionage), and its first chief was Captain Erik af Edholm. Operations shut down after the end of the war in 1918, although some intelligence activities carried on at the Stockholm police, managed by a small group of approximately ten police officers led by Chief Superintendent Eric Hallgren, who later was to become the first chief of the General Security Service (\"Allmänna säkerhetstjänsten\"). Operations were mainly focused on monitoring communists from the start of the war until the early 1930s, when the service also began to focus on Nazis. \n\nIn 1932, operations were transferred to the newly formed State Police (statspolisen). The group of officers working at the State Police did not have the means to monitor phone calls or to intercept and open mail. This, and the general lack of staff and financial resources worried the chief of Sweden's military intelligence, Lieutenant-Colonel Carlos Adlercreutz, who felt the country needed a more powerful security agency if Europe once again ended up in war. Thus, in 1938 the General Security Service was formed, following an initiative by Adlercreutz and Ernst Leche at the Ministry of Justice, among others. The entire organisation and its activities were top-secret. During the Second World War the agency monitored about 25,000 phone calls and intercepted over 200,000 letters every week. In 1946, following a post-war parliamentary evaluation, operations were significantly reduced and once again organised under the State Police, mainly tasked with counter-espionage. In 1965, the Swedish police was nationalized, and all work was organised under the National Police Board in the Department of Security (\"Rikspolisstyrelsens säkerhetsavdelning\", abbreviated RPS/SÄK).\n\nThe period between 1939 and 1945 was marked with extensive foreign intelligence activity in Sweden, resulting in the arrest of numerous spies and enemy agents. Some of the most notorious post-war spies are Fritiof Enbom, Hilding Andersson, Stig Wennerström and Stig Bergling. In all of these cases the spying was done on behalf of the Soviet Union and the spies were convicted to life in prison. \n\nIn the early 1970s, Sweden was rocked by a number of terrorist acts perpetrated by Croatian separatists. Some of the most significant cases were the 1971 Yugoslavian embassy attack in Stockholm and the hijacking of Scandinavian Airlines System Flight 130 a year later. The inception of the first Terrorist Act in 1973 was an immediate policy upshot of this, which among other things gave the police the right to deport people affiliated with terrorist organisations without delay. These incidents also led to internal changes within the Department of Security, which received more resources. On 28 February 1986, Prime Minister Olof Palme was assassinated by an unknown gunman. The Department was not widely criticized, partly because Palme himself had declined protection on the night of the murder. It nevertheless sparked the resignation of the National Police Commissioner Nils Erik Åhmansson and the head of the Department, Sune Sandström, following the revelation of the Ebbe Carlsson affair in 1988. \n\nThe Swedish Security Service was established on 1 October 1989, on the recommendations put forward by a Government committee tasked with evaluating the Department of Security following the assassination of Palme. The new agency was—although still formally a part of the National Police Board—more independent, with its own Director-General and political oversight also increased. Furthermore, the Service took over the formal responsibility for all close protection tasks, which was previously shared with the National Police Board and the Stockholm County Police. On 10 September 2003, Minister for Foreign Affairs Anna Lindh was assassinated by Mijailo Mijailović, who was arrested two weeks later. The Government reviewed its procedures in the wake of the Lindh killing, which led to the doubling of the number of close-protection officers. On 1 January 2015, the police reorganised again into a unified agency, with the Swedish Security Service becoming a fully independent agency.\n\nThe Swedish Security Service's main tasks and responsibilities are:\n\nThe Swedish Security Service became a separate agency 1 January 2015, and is directly organised under the Ministry of Justice. Similar to other government agencies in Sweden, it is essentially autonomous. Under the 1974 Instrument of Government, neither the Government nor individual ministers have the right to influence how an agency decide in a particular case or on the application of legislation. This also applies to the Security Service, which instead is governed by general policy instruments. What sets the Security Service apart from other agencies is that most directives guiding the Service are classified on the grounds of national security, along with the bulk of the reports it produces. The Service is led by a Director-General, Anders Thornberg, who is titled \"Head of the Swedish Security Service\". Operations are led by a Chief Operating Officer, reporting directly the Head of the Security Service. He is in turn assisted by a Deputy Chief Operating Officer and an Office for Operations. The Service is organised into four departments and a secretariat, each led by a Head of Department.\n\n\nThe Service a regional presence and operate from several locations; from its headquarters in Solna and from six regional units with offices in Umeå, Uppsala, Örebro, Norrköping, Gothenburg and Malmö. The Service has approximately 1,100 employees, of which about 10 percent are stationed at the regional offices. The regional units are based on the geographic boundaries of several counties:\n\nList of current and past executive officers:\n\nThe Security Service's role in Cold War counterintelligence is referred to in the second and third novels of the best-selling \"Millennium series\" by Swedish writer Stieg Larsson.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17527552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17527552", "title": "Vice President of Nicaragua", "text": "Vice President of Nicaragua\n\nThe Vice President of the Republic of Nicaragua () is the second highest political position in Nicaragua. According to the current Constitution, the Vice President is elected on the same ticket, and at the same time, as the President.\n\nAs in other countries of Central American Federation, also Nicaragua had \"Head of State\" and \"Deputy Head of State\". Deputy Head of State was first mentioned in the Constitution of 1826. The position had a great influence in important decision-making process of the Head of State. The position of Deputy Chief of State was removed in the Constitution of 1838. In case of vacancy in the presidency, a member of Senate would be elected to fill the vacancy.\n\nThe position of Vice President of the Republic existed legally on four occasions:\n\nGen. Anastasio Ortiz, was the first Vice President appointed by a Constituent Assembly. The Constitutional system of replacement of the President by the Vice President worked in 1923 when President Diego Manuel Chamorro was replaced by Bartolomé Martínez.\n\nA list, albeit incomplete, of the office holders follows. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "929719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=929719", "title": "Willie Soon", "text": "Willie Soon\n\nWei-Hock \"Willie\" Soon (born 1966) is a Malaysian aerospace engineer who is a part-time externally funded researcher at the Solar and Stellar Physics (SSP) Division of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics.\n\nSoon is a climate change denier, disputing the scientific understanding of climate change, and contends that most global warming is caused by solar variation rather than by human activity. He co-wrote a paper whose methodology was widely criticised by the scientific community. Climate scientists such as Gavin Schmidt of the Goddard Institute for Space Studies have refuted Soon's arguments, and the Smithsonian does not support his conclusions. He is nonetheless frequently cited by politicians opposed to climate-change legislation.\n\nSoon co-authored \"The Maunder Minimum and the Variable Sun–Earth Connection\" with Steven H. Yaskell. The book treats historical and proxy records of climate change coinciding with the Maunder Minimum, a period from 1645 to about 1715 when sunspots became exceedingly rare. \n\nFrom 2005 to 2015, Soon had received over $1.2 million from the fossil fuel industry, while failing to disclose that conflict of interest in most of his work.\n\nWillie Soon was born in Kangar, Malaysia, in 1966. He attended Khoon Aik Primary School in Kangar, Perlis, then Sekolah Menengah Syed Sirajudin Secondary School in Jejawi, Perlis, and Sekolah Menengah Dato Sheikh Ahmad Secondary School in Arau, Perlis. To further his education he emigrated to the United States in 1980 and attended the University of Southern California, receiving a B.Sc. in 1985, followed by a M.Sc. in 1987 and then a Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering [with distinction] in 1991. His doctoral thesis was titled \"Non-equilibrium kinetics in high-temperature gases\". He received the IEEE Nuclear and Plasma Sciences Society Graduate Scholastic Award in 1989 and the Rockwell Dennis Hunt Scholastic Award from the University of Southern California in 1991.\n\nAfter completing his Ph.D., Soon took up a post-doctoral research position at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. He has been doing research in astrophysics and earth science there as an externally funded employee since 1991. He has also been an astronomer at the Mount Wilson Observatory a senior scientist at the George C. Marshall Institute think tank, the chief science adviser to the oil industry-funded Science and Public Policy Institute, and an Adjunct Professor of the Faculty of Science and Environmental Studies of the University of Putra, Malaysia. In 2004, the conservative Doctors for Disaster Preparedness awarded Soon the \"Petr Beckmann Award for outstanding contributions to the defense of scientific truth\". In 2014, Soon received the \"Courage in Defense of Science award\" from the conservative, now defunct, George C. Marshall Institute think tank.\n\nIn 2003, Willie Soon was first author on a review paper in the journal \"Climate Research\", with Sallie Baliunas as co-author. This paper concluded that \"the 20th century is probably not the warmest nor a uniquely extreme climatic period of the last millennium.\"\n\nShortly thereafter, 13 scientists published a refutation of the paper. They raised three main objections: (1) Soon and Baliunas used data reflective of changes in moisture, rather than temperature; (2) they failed to distinguish between regional and hemispheric mean temperature anomalies; and (3) they reconstructed past temperatures from proxy evidence not capable of resolving decadal trends. Soon, Baliunas and David Legates published a response to these objections.\n\nAfter disagreement with the publisher and with other members of the editorial board, Hans von Storch, Clare Goodess, and two more members of the journal's ten-member editorial board resigned in protest against what they felt was a failure of the peer review process on the part of the journal. Otto Kinne, managing director of the journal's parent company, eventually stated that \"CR [\"Climate Research\"] should have been more careful and insisted on solid evidence and cautious formulations before publication\" and that \"CR should have requested appropriate revisions of the manuscript prior to publication.\"\n\nSoon and Baliunas have also been criticised because they did not disclose that their research budget was funded in part by the American Petroleum Institute.\n\nIn 2011, it was revealed that Soon received over $1 million from petroleum and coal interests since 2001. Harvard–Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics documents obtained by Greenpeace under the US Freedom of Information Act show that the Charles G. Koch Charitable Foundation gave Soon two grants totaling $175,000 in 2005–06 and again in 2010. Multiple grants from the American Petroleum Institute between 2001 and 2007 totalled $274,000, and grants from Exxon Mobil totalled $335,000 between 2005 and 2010. Other coal and oil industry sources which funded him include the Mobil Foundation, the Texaco Foundation and the Electric Power Research Institute. Soon has stated unequivocally that he has \"never been motivated by financial reward in any of my scientific research\" and \"would have accepted money from Greenpeace if they had offered it to do my research.\"\n\nPutting forward health reasons, in 2011 Soon went from full-time employment by the Smithsonian at the Harvard–Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics to a part-time position. The Center's spokesman said \"Willie's opinions regarding climate change are his personal views not shared within our research organization\". Its former director Irwin Shapiro said no attempt had been made to suppress Soon's views, and there had been no complaints from other scientists there: \"As far as I can tell, no one pays any attention to him.\" Soon has been defended by others agreeing with his views. In 2013, theoretical physicist Freeman Dyson wrote in an email to \"The Boston Globe\": \"The whole point of science is to question accepted dogmas. For that reason, I respect Willie Soon as a good scientist and a courageous citizen.\" Republican Senator Jim Inhofe has cited Soon, and Inhofe's former director of communications Marc Morano said that \"Willie Soon is a hero of the skeptical movement. When you are an early pioneer, you are going to face the scrutiny and attacks.\" Soon has links with conservative groups which promote his writings to influence the public debate on climate change, including The Heartland Institute, and the Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow. In a speech at The Heritage Foundation, he accused the IPCC of being \"a pure bully\" engaged in \"blatant manipulations of fact\", and said \"Stop politicizing science! Just stop!\"\n\nWith William M. Briggs, geography professor David Legates, and journalist and British politician Christopher Monckton, Soon co-authored a paper published by the \"Chinese Science Bulletin\" in 2015. Climatologist Gavin Schmidt described the paper as \"complete trash\". He said that the model used is not new, \"they arbitrarily restrict its parameters and then declare all other models wrong.\"\n\nSoon, as a researcher at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics (CfA), is a part-time employee of the Smithsonian Institution, a government agency covered by the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). Greenpeace worker Kert Davies made a succession of FOIA requests for Soon's correspondence and grant arrangements and in 2014 was given documents disclosing arrangements both Soon and the CfA had with funders. Later in 2014, Davies left Greenpeace to become executive director of a newly founded non-profit, Climate Investigations Center.\n\nThe Smithsonian does not fund Soon, who \"pursues external grants to fund his research.\" This funding had exceeded US$1.5 million since 2001; under standard CfA procedures, more than half of the $1.2 million funding since 2005 had gone towards the Smithsonian's facility operating costs, with the remainder being passed on to Soon as his salary. Other researchers there have a similar arrangement, but nearly all of their funding comes through peer-reviewed award processes from government bodies such as NASA and the National Science Foundation, whereas Soon has received very little federal money. Soon's funding is highly unusual at the Smithsonian in its association with private interests. It included at least $230,000 from the Charles G. Koch Foundation which is associated with the oil industry and $469,560 from the Southern Company which uses coal to generate electricity. Exxon Mobil and the American Petroleum Institute also provided funding, which was later replaced by anonymous donors through the Donors Trust, a donor-advised fund that offers anonymity to clients who do not wish to make their donations public. The latter was identified by a 2013 Drexel University study as the largest single provider of money to political efforts to fight climate-change policy. A 2008 contract agreed to by the CfA required the institute to notify the Southern Company before disclosing that Southern had provided funding, and both the CfA and Willie Soon to provide Southern with advance copies of any publications \"for comment and input\", though the company could not block publications or require changes.\n\nThe \"Chinese Science Bulletin\" has a strict policy requiring disclosure of \"all relationships or interests that could influence or bias the work\", including \"professional interests or personal beliefs that may influence your research\", for example previous receipt of research grants. The Monckton et al. paper published in January 2015 included a statement by the authors, including Soon, that they had no conflict of interest, and Davies wrote to the journal about the undisclosed funding shown by the documents. On 24 January the journal replied that they would \"look into the matter as appropriate\". The story was published by \"The Boston Globe\" on 26 January with a statement by Monckton that allegations of failure to disclose a material conflict of interest were untrue, as the authors had not \"received any funding whatsoever for our research, which was conducted in our own time\". He said that the Heartland Institute had provided funding to make the paper available to the public on the journal's website.\n\nOn February 21, publications including \"The Guardian\" and the \"New York Times\" reported that Soon had failed to disclose conflicts of interest in at least 11 papers since 2008, and alleged that Soon had violated ethical guidelines of at least 8 of those journals publishing his work. Charles R. Alcock, director of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, described the disclosure violations as \"inappropriate behavior\" that they would \"have to handle with Dr. Soon internally\". On the same day, \"Nature\" reported that the CfA had launched an investigation into whether Soon had properly reported the funding arrangements shown in the documents. Alcock said \"We want to get the facts straight. If there is evidence of failure to disclose, yes, we have a problem.\" He said that the contract with Southern preventing disclosure of their funding \"was a mistake\", and in a later email reply to questions said \"We will not permit similar wording in future grant agreements\". The Smithsonian announced that its Inspector General would investigate, and in addition there was to be a full review of the Smithsonian's ethics and disclosure policies about sponsored research, led by former NSF director Rita R. Colwell.\n\nOn March 2, 2015, the Heartland Institute conservative think tank released a statement by Soon, which said he had \"been the target of attacks in the press by various radical environmental and politically motivated groups\". He described this as \"a shameless attempt to silence my scientific research and writings, and to make an example out of me as a warning to any other researcher who may dare question in the slightest their fervently held orthodoxy of anthropogenic global warming.\" Some of the journals that had published Soon's work had begun reviewing the papers in relation to their policies requiring disclosure: Soon said he had \"always complied with what I understood to be disclosure practices in my field generally\". He would be \"happy to comply\" if they required further disclosure, and \"would ask only that other authors—on all sides of the debate—are also required to make similar disclosures.\"\n\nHe also requested that journalists who had reported on his actions similarly examined disclosure by other scientists. An investigation by \"InsideClimate News\" could find no cases where mainstream climatologists had failed to disclose the funding of their research. Unlike Soon, who had approached private funders directly, their funding was almost entirely obtained through open competitive peer-reviewed applications to public bodies. Climate scientist Andrew Dessler said \"People always acknowledge their grants, and that's not really an issue\". Though it was almost certain that a disclosure issue could arise, intentionally or otherwise, no instances were known. The nearest case was raised by Steven Milloy's \"Junk Science\" blog when \"Nature Climate Change\" published a 2012 study by Kerry Emanuel, who was paid a fixed amount by two companies to sit on their board. Although the companies did not fund his research, the journal then added disclosure of these board memberships. The blog raised the same concern about a paper published a year later, but \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" decided this disclosure was not required.\n\nIn April 2015, a Southern Company spokesman said \"Our agreement with the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory expires later this year and there are no plans to renew it\". It still required Soon to produce a study on \"Solar Activity Variation on Multiple Timescales\" by November 2015.\n\n\n"}
