{"id": "1587298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1587298", "title": "1711 in music", "text": "1711 in music\n\nThe year 1711 in music involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33066340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33066340", "title": "Architecture-Studio", "text": "Architecture-Studio\n\nArchitecture-Studio is a French Architecture Practice created in 1973 in Paris. Around its 14 partners, Architecture-Studio brings together an international team of architects, urban planners, interior designers, quantity surveyors and sustainable design specialists of twenty five different nationalities.\n\nThe Seat of the European Parliament in Strasbourg, the Arab World Institute in Paris (together with Jean Nouvel), and the Notre-Dame-de-l'Arche-d'Alliance Church in Paris stand among Architecture-Studio's best known projects. Architecture-Studio has been developing over the years and has established an office in Shanghai, and CA'ASI in Venice, Italy.\n\nArchitecture-Studio defines Architecture as \"an art that is socially committed and engaged in the construction of mankind's living environment\". Architecture-Studio's work is based on group culture, developing a real team work through a collective conception of Architecture; a will to go beyond individual interests in favour of dialogue and debate, thereby transforming all individual knowledge into collective creative potential.\n\nArchitecture-Studio believes that this also involves being open to encounters that can alter the way of thinking or, at least, inflect it (a book, a film, a man, a mistake on a building site…). This approach is a key to the conception process; a process which is not linear but iterative, not static but dynamic, not only intellectual and abstract but organic and concrete.\n\nCarried by this open-minded attitude, Architecture-Studio's team has progressively grown. Martin Robain, the founder, has been joined by:\n\n\n10 rue Lacuée, 12e Arrondissement (main office);\nBuilding 20# TongLeFang, No.555 HaiFang Road, Shanghai (subsidiary) ;\nCampiello Santa Maria Nova, Cannaregio (CA'ASI, exhibition space).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7531996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7531996", "title": "Basilica of Saint Servatius", "text": "Basilica of Saint Servatius\n\nThe Basilica of Saint Servatius is a Roman Catholic church dedicated to Saint Servatius, in the city of Maastricht, the Netherlands. The architecturally hybrid but mainly Romanesque church is situated next to the Gothic church of Saint John, backing onto the town's main square, Vrijthof.\n\nThe present-day church is probably the fourth church that was built on the site of the grave of Saint Servatius, an Armenian missionary who was bishop of Tongeren and died allegedly in 384 in Maastricht. A small memorial chapel on the saint's grave was replaced by a large stone church built by bishop Monulph around 570. This church was replaced by a larger pilgrim church in the late 7th century, which was then replaced by the present-day structure, which was built in several stages over a period of more than 100 years. The nave was built in the first half of the 11th century, the transept in the second half of the century, and the choir and westwork in the 12th century. The Romanesque church was built during a period in which the chapter of Saint Servatius kept close ties to the Holy Roman Emperors, which resulted in a building that has the characteristics of a German imperial church. The dedication of the church in 1039 was attended by the emperor Henry III and twelve bishops. Most of the church's Medieval provosts were sons of the highest ranking German noble families. Several held the office of chancellor of the German Empire; at least eight provosts went on to become archbishops.\n\nThe sculpted \"Bergportaal\", at the south side of the church, was begun around 1180 and can be considered late Romanesque or early Gothic. All the chapels along the side aisles are Gothic (14th and 15th centuries), and so is the vaulted ceiling of the nave and the transept. In 1556 a late Gothic spire was added onto the westwork between the two existing towers. In 1770 the entire westwork was crowned with Baroque helmet spires, designed by the Liège architect Etienne Fayen.\n\nOver the centuries the interior of the church underwent many changes. In the 17th century, the Gothic choir rood screen with sculpted depictions of the life of Servatius was demolished. Fragments from the 14th-century screen were discovered during the 1980s restoration works and are now kept in the church's lapidarium in the East crypt. By the end of the 18th century, the entire church interior had been painted white, the colourful Medieval stained glass windows had been replaced by colourless glass, and the church looked distinctly Baroque.\n\nThe north transept holds some epitaphs, of which the one for Egidius Ruyschen in Renaissance style is probably the most original. Nearby is the impressive tomb of the Count and Countess van den Bergh (Johannes Bossier, 1685), which was transferred from the Dominican church of Maastricht. From the Dominican church were also transferred the ornate confessionals by Daniël van Vlierden (Hasselt, 1700), which are located in various parts of the church.\n\nIn 1797 the chapter was dissolved by the French revolutionaries and the church was used as a horse stable by the troops. The furnishings of the church were sold, stolen or trashed. Likewise, most of the church treasures disappeared during the first years of the French occupation. In 1804 the church was returned to the parish but the building was an empty ruin. It was during the period that followed that most of the damage was done. The 11th-century Chapel of Saint Maternus and the 15th-century \"Koningskapel\" (built by the French kings Charles VII and Louis XI) were considered irreparable and were demolished. For liturgical reasons, it was deemed necessary to lower the elevated choir, for which the underlying 11th-century crypt was demolished. In 1846 the four panels that belonged to the reliquary chest of Saint Servatius (\"Noodkist\") were sold to an antiques dealer and ended up in the Royal Museums of Art and History in Brussels.\n\nBetween 1866 and 1900 the church underwent major restorations during which some of the damage done earlier in the century was reversed. The restoration was led by famous Dutch architect Pierre Cuypers. In 1955 a fire caused Cuypers' Gothic Revival westwork spire to fall through the roof of the church, which made another thorough restoration necessary (1982–1991). During this latter restoration, Cuypers' colourful interior decoration scheme was largely removed. During this most recent restoration, extensive excavations that were carried out in the church and adjacent buildings, revealed a wealth of information about the history of the church and its predecessors.\n\nThrough the ages, the presence of the grave of Saint Servatius in the church crypt and the many relics in the church treasury, have drawn large numbers of pilgrims. Starting in the 14th century (but perhaps earlier) a seven-yearly pilgrimage was organized in cooperation with nearby Aachen Cathedral and Kornelimünster Abbey, attracting tens of thousands of visitors to the region. This so-called \"Heiligdomsvaart\" continued until 1632 when Maastricht became affiliated with the Dutch Republic (Capture of Maastricht). The Heiligdomsvaart was revived in the 19th century and the tradition continues in our days. The next Heiligdomsvaart will take place in July 2018.\n\nToday, the Basilica of Saint Servatius is the main church of the Deanery of Maastricht, which belongs to the Diocese of Roermond. The church continues to be a center of Catholicism in Maastricht (the other main church being the Basilica of Our Lady). The church was made a Basilica Minor by Pope John Paul II during his visit in 1985.\n\nAlthough the present building conveys a rather hybrid image of architectural styles, the church of Saint Servatius is considered to be one of the most important religious buildings in the former Prince-Bishopric of Liège. Both the East choir and the Westwork of the Maastricht church have been influential in the development of Romanesque architecture in the Meuse and Rhine valleys. Several authors have pointed out the significance of the South portal's late Romanesque sculpture for the early development of Gothic sculpture in France.\nBoth the exterior of the East choir and the interior of the westwork of Saint Servatius contain architectural sculpture that is considered amongst the most interesting in the Mosan region. The 34 elaborately carved capitals in the Westwork depict scenes from books well-known to the canons, such as Saint Augustine's \"De Civitate Dei\" and various bestiaries. Recurrent themes are: botanical ornaments, animals, humans fighting with animals, humans entangled in plants, and humans engaged in daily activities. A close relationship has been established by art historians between the Maastricht Westwork capitals and those of the East choir of Our Lady's in Maastricht, the Rolduc crypt, the dwarf gallery of the Doppelkirche Schwarzrheindorf (Bonn), and the Wartburg palace (near Eisenach).\n\nAlso in the Westwork of Saint Servatius is a sculpted Romanesque choir screen, also referred to as the \"double relief\". The lower rectangular part depicts the Virgin and Child in a mandorla held by two angels, the upper part shows Christ handing over the keys of Heaven to Saint Peter and Saint Servatius. The relief closely relates to a choir screen in Saint Peter's in Utrecht. Elsewhere in the church a 12th-century tympanum depicting the \"Majestas Domini\" can be found as part of a former portal. The choir ceiling shows remnants of ceiling paintings, depicting the visions of Zechariah. This may be the only surviving work by a once important group of Maastricht and Cologne based painters, who received high praise from Wolfram von Eschenbach in his Parzival.\n\nThe church's South portal (\"Bergportaal\") contains sculpture that marks the period of transition between late Romanesque and early Gothic sculpture. The sculpted tympanum and the two inner archivolts date from around 1180 and are Romanesque is style, the rest of the portal can be considered Gothic and dates from around 1215.\n\nSince the donation of a silver reliquary in the shape of a Roman triumphal arch by Charlemagne's biographer Einhard in c. 830, the church has acquired many treasures, most of which are now kept in the Treasury. Amongst the highlights are the reliquary shrine and the reliquary bust of Saint Servatius, the key, the cup, the crozier and the pectoral cross of Saint Servatius, a large patriarchal cross, and many other reliquaries and liturgical vessels, as well as an important collection of medieval ivories and textiles.\n\n"}
{"id": "34076639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34076639", "title": "Betongtavlen", "text": "Betongtavlen\n\nBetongtavlen (\"The Concrete Tablet\") is a Norwegian architecture and civil engineering award issued by the National Associations of Norwegian Architects and the Norwegian Concrete Association. The award is issues to a structure \"where concrete is used in an environmentally, esthetically and technically excellent way\". The award was first issued in 1961 for Bakkehaugen Church and has as of 2011 been awarded 53 times. The award is not necessarily awarded every year, and up to four structures have been awarded in a year. Structures awarded prices include office buildings, campus buildings, ski jumps, houses, hotels, bridges, tunnels, dams, oil platforms, industrial facilities, viewpoints and cultural institutions. Prizes are not necessarily awarded immediately after the structure was completed—for instance, Elgeseter Bridge was completed in 1951 but awarded the prize in 2006.\n\nThe following is a list of the awards, including the year it was awarded, the structure, the credited architects and engineering firms or people, the type of structure and the municipality in which it is located.\n"}
{"id": "59019489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59019489", "title": "Candler College and Colegio Buenavista", "text": "Candler College and Colegio Buenavista\n\nCandler College and Colegio Buenavista were educational institutions founded in Havana, Cuba by the United States Southern Methodist Episcopal Church. They were founded on two different dates, Candler College in 1899 and Colegio Buenavista in 1920. They both ceased to exist in 1961 when they were nationalized by the revolutionary government of Fidel Castro. These schools intended to provide a bilingual education in Spanish and English, based on the Christian faith. They offered from the pre-school level until finishing high school to Cuban children and youth, as part of the mission of the church on the island.\n\nAlthough they were administered by different dependencies of the Methodist Church of Florida (United States), these two schools developed all their activities in coordination. Candler College offered elementary education only to boys while Colegio Buenavista provided primary education for girls. Young girls enrolled in Buenavista attended secondary education programs at Candler College; they only received religion and physical education classes at the Buenavista facilities. Some of Candler's boys did the seventh and eighth grades in English at Colegio Buenavista to be able to follow the United States High School curriculum. The younger boys also went to Kindergarten along with the girls. Candler College had a boarding school for boys only. Similarly, Buenavista provided the boarding for young girls and ladies. The two schools had separate lunch services for students who did not live a short distance away from them.\n\nIn order to give its graduates and other students, the opportunity to continue university studies, at Candler College Candler University was organized in 1956, opening the Faculties of Pedagogy, Languages, Philosophy, and Letters, Pharmacy and Commercial Sciences to began in 1957.\n\nThese institutions grew in number of students and in prestige over the years until their educational work was interrupted in 1961 when the Castro regime nationalized all the private educational establishments (religious and lay). During the years in which Candler College and Colegio Buenavista existed, both schools provided a successful service to Cuban youth preparing their students for civic life by providing, in addition to official instruction, an integral formation based on Christian, moral and patriotic values. \n\nThe first Methodist school in Cuba was founded in 1899 by the American missionary Thad E. Leland on Calle Virtudes de La Habana. This was founded when the Bishop of the Methodist Church of Florida, the Rev. Warren Akin Candler, proposed to give a new impetus to the missionary work begun in Cuba in 1883, through educational projects. In 1903 this school was named Candler College in honor of Bishop Candler.\n\nThe Reverend H. B. Bardwell, a missionary in Cuba since 1903, succeeded the reverends E.E Clements and B.F. Gilbert as director of Candler College in 1909. Aware of the need to expand, the Mission Board of the Florida Conference acquired a vast tract of land in La Ceiba, Marianao, where the first building for the new headquarters was built in 1912 of the school, inaugurated in January 1913. For some time, the school in Havana and the new headquarters functioned under the same name until they were organized as independent colleges. The headquarters of Havana was called Central Methodist College and that of Marianao retained the name Candler College. In addition to offering elementary and secondary education, between 1924 and 1946 at Candler College, a theological seminary was held, the School of Pastors, which was under the direction of the Reverend B. F. Gilbert followed by the Reverend E.E, Clements.\n\nThe Reverend Bardwell directed Candler College for forty years, during which the spirit of the college was consolidated. He was replaced in 1949 by the Reverend Carlos Pérez Ramos, who had been assistant director since 1946. Under his direction, the school continued to grow and other buildings and facilities were built to meet new requirements.\n\nColegio Buenavista was founded in 1920 by the Women's Missionary Board of the Methodist Church to provide a Christian education for girls and young women and to respond to the request of the parents of Candler College students who demanded an education for their daughters. quality similar to that of his brothers. This women's school began to operate in a residence surrounded by gardens that acquired the church across the street Miramar, along the side of the Candler. In addition to offering primary education for girls, between 1926 and 1938 in Buenavista worked a Normal School that prepared hundreds of teachers, directed by Dr. Luis Alonso.\n\nUntil 1960, the directors of Colegio Buenavista were American missionaries who had carried out evangelization and social work for the Methodist Church in different parts of the island. Under his direction the school grew at the same pace as Candler College. Miss Belle Markey, the first director, was followed by Miss Junia Jones and then by Miss Ione Clay, who held the position for more than 25 years, until her retirement in 1956, and was replaced by Miss Juanita Kelly, who was succeeded by Miss Lorraine Buck. Four months before the nationalization of the school, the Reverend Humberto Carrazana, pastor of the Methodist Church of Marianao, was named director of Colegio Buenavista.\n\nFor several decades, the schools were considered among the best in Cuba and \"many graduates were accepted in the best universities in the United States without taking admission exams.\" Some banks and other commercial companies often offered vacant positions to students of the school that were close to finishing their studies of Accountant and Secretariat.\n\nCandler College was located in the southeastern corner of the intersection of Miramar (Calle 54) and Gutiérrez (Ave. 43) in La Ceiba, Marianao. Candler's main entrance was down Gutiérrez Street (Ave.43) and gave access to the gardens in the front part of the main building, where the offices were on the ground floor and the bedrooms for the pupils in the second and third floors. Through this entrance, taking to the left, were the Martian Corner and the two-story building where the High School classes were held. At the back of this building, which opened onto Calle Lanuza (Calle 52), an entrance was opened for the students of Candler University. There were three other entrances on Calle Miramar (Ave. 54): one that was used to enter the Chapel, the next allowed the entrance of cars to the esplanade and parking place; this entrance had on the right the two-story building of the School of Commerce, with its well-equipped classrooms and spacious corridors, and to the left was the Library building, which also had two floors. Surrounding the esplanade were the back of the main building with its long corridors, the front of the High School building, the dining room and kitchen with the apartment for the director on the second floor and the three-story building that occupied the School of Baccalaureate, with its laboratories and the Museum of Natural Sciences, in addition to classrooms. Separated by a fence, was the field for sports, the squash court and beyond the ground and the ballpark. The third entrance was the building of the Elementary School, in front of Font Street (Ave. 45). On the opposite side of the street, there was another sports field on the corner of 54th Street and 45th Ave. The Gymnasium, with its modern wooden plank for playing basketball and indoor volleyball and a stage at the back, was It was located in the southwest corner of 56th Street and 45th Ave.\n\nColegio Buenavista was located in front of the entrances on the side of Candler, on the southwestern corner of 54th Street and 43rd Avenue.\nThe main Buenavista building had three entrances on Calle Miramar (Calle 54): the first was a gate to enter the main building, the beautiful mansion that was adapted to the initial needs of the school. On the ground floor were: the materials room, the kitchen, the dining room, and two classrooms. On the facade there were two converging stairs on a large terrace that gave access to the offices, the library, and the hall, from where a corridor led to the infirmary, the bedrooms and bathrooms for the pupils and the director, on the second floor. On the third floor, there were more bedrooms for the older pupils and the missionaries. To the left of this building, there was an entrance for cars, gardens, a garage, and a small room. A hallway to the left led to the classrooms, lined along 54th Street and 45th Ave, which limited the large courtyard with its gardens. This included recreational areas, the platform for cultural activities, the Martian Corner and, on the other side, the tennis and volleyball court. A third entrance to the gardens of Calle Miramar led to a vestibule that separated a small religious meditation room and a classroom and the long corridor that gave access to the other classrooms. There was also an entrance through the back of the patio, on Calle Primelles (Calle 56). Crossing this street, a small door allowed to enter the sports ground for the students of Buenavista. The Auditorium of both schools was built next to this land, located in the south-western corner of 56th Street and 43rd Ave. Diagonal to this, in the northeast corner, with the entrance by Ave. 43, was the building of two stories with a smaller playground for students from pre-school to third grade.\n\nBoth schools in total occupied a vast lot whose area of more than 32,000 square meters was bounded by 45th Ave to the south, 52nd Street to the east, 58th Street to the west and 43rd Ave to the north. This large area was crossed by three streets: Calle 54, Ave. 45 and Calle 56, which separated the buildings of the schools and the sports grounds, the gymnasium, and the auditorium.\n\nCandler College and Buenavista College were grounded in the creed and discipline of the Methodist church. They were opened to prepare students for their future life outside of school on the basis of Christian faith and practice as well as moral, civic and patriotic values. Its purposes were to provide a comprehensive education that would contribute to the personal development of students as individuals and members of society and raise the educational level of the newly founded republic.\n\nAccording to the thought of John Wesley, a good education was considered \"one of the best ways to transform individuals, communities and societies as a whole\" for their betterment and the glory of God. Education was not only the acquisition of academic knowledge but also wisdom and humility, which was founded on the teachings of Christ, in order to grow intellectually, personally and spiritually. The search for truth was encouraged through reason, research and debate, based on freedom of thought and expression. High academic standards were promoted as well as the development of talents through varied activities. As a result, challenges were posed to students, they were inspired and supported to achieve their best through self-discipline and a strong work ethic.\n\nCandler and Buenavista maintained a distinctive approach to education that incorporated Christian ethical values. The Methodist Social Creed emphasizes interest in social welfare and justice as well as the need to combat prejudice and intolerance in whatever form they take by strengthening mutual respect and understanding. So tolerant attitudes and behaviors were reinforced, respectful and non-discriminatory.\n\nIt was hoped that students would learn to differentiate good and evil based on Christian and moral values. Family values based on love and mutual understanding and support were an important part of the formation of students.\n\nHigh ideals of patriotism were present in the education of the students: love their homeland and be loyal to it, respect and honor the national emblems and recognize the merits of the main forgers of the nation, know its history, culture and traditions as well as the achievements of the newly created republic and interested in the needs and problems of its people and their efforts to solve them.\n\nThe civic values of freedom and democracy and the norms of coexistence related to rights and duties had a central place in the task of preparing future citizens as well as inculcating good manners and the appropriate habits required to live in society.\n\nThe strong ties with the Florida Methodist Church Conference, which partially supported both colleges, were evident in the influence of American culture and traditions in schools. The flag of the United States was present in all the parties and ceremonies along with the Cuban flag and the national anthems of the two countries were sung.\n\nThe principle adopted by Candler College as a guide was Consilio et Prudentia (Wisdom and Prudence). The motto of Colegio Buenavista, which appears on his seal, was Esse quam Videri (Ser instead of appearing). The pennants of Candler College bore the distinctive colors of the school, red and black. Those of Buenavista the orange and the black. The hymns of the schools were the following:\n\nLogo Candler College\n\n1 Hail Candler! Emblem for always of nobility and virtue Holy Mother of the soul you teach us the truth and rectitude. As a beacon that the sad sailor in the night will guide you are light that the path of the student with knowledge will illuminate.\n\nChorus: Candler, Candler pay tribute always loyal children the name of the Alma Mater exalted.\n\n2 With affection your children happy today want everyone to sing hymn of your glorious traditions, your great name to celebrate. Your ideals, like treasured jewels, will adorn the homeland. Your grateful precepts children in the soul will keep.\n\nChorus\n\nBuenavista School\n\n1 To the school beloved by all we sing a hymn in praise promising to always be faithful to its emblem that is honor and love. Companions sing the hymn of the beloved school in honor Buenavista you will be our beacon for your name we will know how to succeed.\n\nChorus: Compañeras let's sing the hymn of the beloved school in praise Buenavista! let's say happy! Buenavista! with deep emotion.\n\n2 Buenavista your glorious name expression of your life gives us our breasts will be your bulwark, by your name we will succeed. Buenavista that always loving teaching and affection you give us and the august knowledge you give us to enter the better life. Chorus\n\n3 Compañeras the work we follow and let all of us guide our duty by always promising to be faithful, respecting the voice of their law. Companions we sing the hymn of the beloved school in praise and its echoes resound gloriously like a psalm that reaches God. Chorus\n\nCandler College consisted of four schools, each coordinated by a sub-director:\n\n\nColegio Buenavista offered preschool (Kindergarten and Pre-primary) and primary education in Spanish and English from first to eighth grades. Her students continued secondary education at Candler College.\n\nThe curriculum corresponded to the graduate school model adopted in Cuba at the beginning of the twentieth century, which implies the progressive nature of the teaching-learning process so that the contents of the subjects were sequenced progressively from pre-school to secondary education.\n\nCandler College and Buenavista followed the official programs for the Primary School and the Bachillerato proposed by the Cuban Ministry of Education, which determined in a precise way the contents for the subjects of each grade in the Study Plans, as well as the time required for each one. The teachers selected the textbooks and the materials among those prepared by authors Cubans. Primary Education in Spanish and the Baccalaureate had official recognition, as there were supervisors from the Ministry of Education who periodically visited the primary school classes. The Baccalaureate School was incorporated the Secondary Education Institute of Marianao, so that the students had to present exams of each subject before professors of this institute twice a year to obtain the accreditation of their results, and at the end, the diploma official that would allow them to enter the university. In the School of Commerce the professors prepared the study plans. The textbooks and materials were selected by them among those offered by the publishing houses and were available in the bookstores. The curricula for the High School followed the curriculum of the United States and the texts were brought from there. The schedules, the spaces and the didactic resources were conceived and managed in coordination by the sub-directors and teachers. They were autonomous to conduct the teaching-learning process. Each teacher was free to choose the teaching methods and teaching materials he or she considered most convenient for each subject and was responsible for the evaluation of the students, including the observation of their difficulties and needs in order to improve their performance. Grades or grades were reported monthly to the parents of the students.\n\nReligious education was important in both schools. The Bible classes were part of the curriculum in all grades. The students not only read the history and teachings of Jesus and the apostles in the New Testament, they also learned about the history of the Hebrew people, their leaders, prophets, and other characters; they also learned the Ten Commandments and read the Psalms and Proverbs in the Old Testament. Worshiping God and praying were part of the student's formation. Twice a week the students of Buenavista and the boys of Candler in the Chapel met separately, where the word of God was preached and topics related to spiritual, moral, civic and patriotic values were discussed.\n\nStudents at both schools had opportunities to supplement their academic instruction through a number of sports and various extracurricular activities:\n\nAthletics and sports were always practiced in Candler. In the beginning, the favorite sports were tennis and baseball along with the training field and track. Later, students also practiced softball, basketball, volleyball, and squash instead of tennis. Some students could participate in teams that were specially trained to compete in the intercollegiate championships. They won many trophies in baseball and basketball.\n\nThe girls also played sports at Buenavista: softball, kickball, volleyball and basketball. Teams were trained with the best players to also participate in intercollegiate competitions.\n\nIn Buenavista there was a Music Department that, in addition to the regular music classes included in the curricula, offered piano and solfeggio and music theory lessons. The students could take these classes in their free time or at the end of the school day each day. The annual Recital was a tradition of many years, in which the students who took piano lessons played a piece of classical music. In this one also participated the Rhythmic Band.\n\nIn the decades of 1940 and 1950 there was also a school band that participated in stops or patriotic celebrations and played the National Anthem during the salute to the flag.\n\nIn addition, choirs were specially prepared to participate in festivals and other celebrations.\n\nSince 1958 a choir was organized with students from both schools.\n\nAt different times, some groups of students interested in literature, musical appreciation, theater, oratory, or the publication of a newspaper were organized, guided by a teacher or counselor.\n\nThe excursions were traditional opportunities to visit places near the school or historical or recreational places in different parts of the country.\n\nAt Candler College, there was also a troop of Boy Scouts.\n\nIn addition, festivals, bazaars, theatrical performances, Christmas celebrations and others that were part of the annual planning of school activities were organized.\n\nCandler College and Colegio Buenavista were open to all children and young people without further requirements, who, apart from paying the monthly fee, committed to respecting their standards. Some students were scholarship two for the church and some parents got a reduction in the tuition for their children's education.\n\nThe two schools did not admit exclusively Methodist or Protestant students. The majority of the students were Catholic and there were also some students Jews. Due to the good level in the teaching of the English language, Candler and Buenavista were chosen by many parents of students foreigners who lived in Cuba.\n\nIn the sixty-two years of existence of Candler College and forty-one of Buenavista, many thousands of students left the schools prepared to continue their studies or enter the world of work and become good citizens. They were equipped with solid foundations of religious faith and moral values to cope with life after school.\n\nThe Candler Fraternity was the association of graduates and alumni of Candler College. The former students of Buenavista belonged to the Association of Former Students of Colegio Buenavista.\n\nMany alumni and teachers of Candler and Buenavista left their country in the early 1960s when the revolution that took power in 1959 turned to communism. Others emigrated later. The majority went to live in the United States, concentrating on the largest number in Florida. Some of those who have been in contact have met on different occasions to remember the old times and reaffirm the spirit of the schools that they all share.\n\nThe former students of Candler and Buenavista who remained in Cuba have formed the Candler-Buenavista Fraternity and meet annually since 1999.\n"}
{"id": "1586467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1586467", "title": "Chelsea Arts Club", "text": "Chelsea Arts Club\n\nThe Chelsea Arts Club is a private members club at 143 Old Church Street in Chelsea, London with a membership of over 3,800, including artists, sculptors, architects, writers, designers, actors, musicians, photographers, and filmmakers. The club was established on 21 March 1891 (in Chelsea), as a rival to the older Arts Club in Mayfair, on the instigation of the artist James Abbott McNeill Whistler, who had been a (sometimes controversial) member of the older club.\n\nDuring its primary season from September–June the Chelsea Arts Club serves as a host for many functions, from instrumental and choral performances to visual arts exhibitions, literary talks, and weekend artist lunches.\n\nApplicants for membership need to be sponsored by two current Members.\n\nThe club is located in the former Bolton Lodge, a Grade II listed building on the National Heritage List for England.\n\nThe Chelsea Arts Club was originally located in rooms at no. 181 King's Road. In 1902, the club moved to larger premises at no. 143 Old Church Street. In 1933 the club's premises, which had an acre of garden, were remodeled. The clubhouse includes a snooker room, bedrooms, dining room, former 'ladies bar' turned private party room, and a garden.\n\nFrom 1908 to 1958 the club held a series of public fancy dress balls at the Albert Hall, latterly on New Year's Eve, which raised funds for artists' charities. In 1958 balls were banned from the Albert Hall owing their notoriety for rowdiness, nudity and public homosexuality (illegal before 1967). Subsequently, private functions were held at the club instead, with similarly lavish decorations and themes.\n\nIn 1966 the club was redecorated, a new bar was opened, and membership was opened to women artists.\nAlthough normally a plain white building, the club exterior is occasionally painted to coincide with a themed event. It has been painted by set designer Tony Common. In 2010 it was painted bright colours with images of circus performers, and in 2011 was painted to appear as if it had been bombed in order to coincide with celebrations marking 70 years since the end of The Blitz.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49184394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49184394", "title": "Christ Pantocrator (Sinai)", "text": "Christ Pantocrator (Sinai)\n\nThe Christ Pantocrator of St. Catherine’s Monastery at Sinai is one of the oldest Eastern Roman religious icons, dating from the sixth century AD. It is the earliest known version of the pantocrator style that still survives today, and is regarded by historians and scholars to be one of the most important and recognizable works in the study of Byzantine art as well as Eastern Orthodox Christianity.\n\nFor a time the icon was thought to have been dated from the thirteenth century, since it had been almost completely painted over at that time, but it was concluded in 1962 that it is in fact from the mid-sixth century, although the exact date of production is still unknown. When Saint Catherine’s Monastery was founded by the Byzantine emperor Justinian I, late in his reign, between 548 and 565, it enjoyed imperial patronage and donations from Justinian and his court, with the Christ Pantocrator icon having been one of the many possible imperial gifts. Because of this, it is generally believed to have been produced in the Byzantine capital of Constantinople.\n\nMany agree that the icon represents the dual nature of Christ, illustrating traits of both man and god, perhaps influenced by the aftermath of the ecumenical councils of the previous century at Ephesus and Chalcedon. Christ’s features on the left side are supposed to represent the qualities of his human nature, while the right side represents his divinity. His right hand is shown opening outward, signifying his gift of blessing, while the left hand and arm is clutching a thick Gospel book.\n\nSome scholars have suggested the icon at Sinai could have been a possible representation of the Kamouliana icon of Christ or of the famous icon of Christ of the Chalke Gate, an image which was destroyed twice during the first and second waves of Byzantine Iconoclasmfirst in 726, and again in 814and thus its connection with the Christ Pantocrator is difficult to confirm.\n\nWith a height of 84 cm, width of 45.5 cm, and a thickness of 1.2 cm, the icon was originally taller and wider before its top and sides were cut. Otherwise there is only one spot with major damage, a large portion of Christ’s hair on his left side, including his left ear and shoulder. The original encaustic surface has continually been preserved in excellent condition overall. As with many of the early icons from Sinai, the Christ Pantocrator was created by using this technique, known as encaustic—a medium using hot wax paint—that would rarely continue to be utilized in the Byzantine world after the iconoclastic controversies of the eighth and ninth centuries. In fact, the monastery at Sinai is the only place in the world where a substantial number of these encaustic icons, particularly those dating from as early as the sixth century, have been preserved. During the Period of Byzantine Iconoclasm, the production of Orthodox icons continued at Sinai, whereas they were being destroyed in Constantinople.\n\nThe Muslim Arabs quickly took control of the entire Fertile Crescent south of the Turkish mountains, including Egypt and Sinai, cutting the monastery’s ties with Constantinople in the year 640. Therefore, by the time the era of iconoclasm had been initiated by Emperor Leo III in 726, the Monastery of Saint Catherine had already been protected under Muslim rule for nearly a century and was able to survive the destruction of iconoclasm. Furthermore, the location of the monastery in the rocky desert of Sinai, far away from any major trade or military route, kept the contents within St. Catherine’s safe from raiders as well as conquering armies. Even today the monastery houses more than 2,000 icons, dating from the sixth century to the modern times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54227398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54227398", "title": "Collective work (US)", "text": "Collective work (US)\n\nA collective work in the Copyright law of the United States is a work that contains the works of several authors assembled and published into a collective whole. \nThe owner of the work has the property rights in the collective work, but the authors of the individual works may retain rights in their contributions.\nElectronic reproduction of the whole work is allowed, but electronic reproduction of the individual works on their own, outside the context of the work as a whole, may constitute an infringement of copyright.\n\nThe Copyright Act of 1976, section 101, defines a collective work as \"a work, such as a periodical issue, anthology, or encyclopedia, in which a number of contributions, constituting separate and independent works in themselves, are assembled into a collective whole\". \nIt is protected as long as the \"author\" can show that the selection and organization of the contributions is original, and that these contribution can themselves be protected, as opposed to being mere facts such as statistical data.\nThe act makes a clear distinction between the collective work and the individual contributions, \n\nThe United States Copyright Office says, \nBecause a collective work is a form of compilation, the U.S. Copyright Office will apply the criteria for compilations to determine whether the author’s selection, coordination, and/or arrangement satisfies the originality requirement.\nThus a website will be protected only if the author used creativity or subjective judgement to select and arrange the material.\nOrdinarily, the Office will not examine the preexisting material that appears in a derivative work, a compilation, or a collective work to determine whether that material is protected by copyright or whether it has been used in a lawful manner.\n\nThe first copyright law in the United States, the Copyright Act of 1790, covered maps, charts or books. \nThe printed work was protected for 14 years from registration of its title with the district court, and could be renewed for another 14 years by the author, if still alive.\nIt did not provide for the copyright to be vested initially in an individual or employee who ordered or commissioned a map, chart or book.\nThe work only covered American authors, allowing publishers to flood the market with cheap reprints of British books.\nThe first major revision was the Copyright Act of 1831, which extended the initial term to 28 years with the option to renew for another 14 years, and granted widows and children of deceased authors the right of renewal.\n\nThe Copyright Act of 1909, which became on March 4, 1909, covered books, including composite and cyclopaedic works, directories, gazetteers, and other compilations; periodicals, including newspapers; and other works such as lectures, sermons, musical compositions, works of art and maps.\nCopyright was secured by publication with a notice of copyright.\nThe owner was also required to deposit copies of the work with the copyright office.\nCopyright protection was for 28 years from date of publication, with the option to renew for a further 28 years.\nCopyright could be registered and renewed for a contribution to a periodical or to a cyclopaedic or other composite work.\nSection 6 of the Act specified:\nThe 1909 Act was repealed and superseded by the Copyright Act of 1976, but remains effective for copyrighted works created before the Copyright Act of 1976 went into effect in 1978. \nThe Copyright Act of 1976 created a static seventy-five-year term (dated from the date of publication) for anonymous works, pseudonymous works, and works made for hire. \nThe extension term for works copyrighted before 1978 that had not already entered the public domain was increased from twenty-eight years to forty-seven years, giving a total term of seventy-five years. \nThe Copyright Renewal Act of 1992 amended the 1976 Copyright Act, and affected works copyrighted between January 1, 1964 and December 31, 1977. Renewal registration for these works was made optional, and a second term was automatically secured.\nIn 1998 the Copyright Term Extension Act further extended copyright protection to the duration of the author's life plus seventy years for general copyrights and to ninety-five years from date of publication or 120 years from date of creation, whichever comes first, for works made for hire. \n\nThe 1909 Copyright Act was confused in its discussion of the relationship between copyright in the collective work and that in the individual works.\nUnder the 1909 Act a copyright could only be transferred to another owner in whole, and not in part.\nThus an author could not transfer the rights for their work to be published as part of a collective work without transferring all rights in their work.\n\"Goodis v. United Artists Television, Inc.\", 425 F.2d 397 concerned the rights of the author of the novel \"Dark Passage\", first published as a serial in \"The Saturday Evening Post\".\nThe United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held on 9 March 1970 that the doctrine of indivisibility could not wholly deprive an author of his copyright in a case like this.\n\nThe doctrine of indivisibility was expressly eliminated in the Copyright Act of 1976.\nSection 106 of the Act lists the exclusive rights that the copyright owner has in a copyrighted work, which are the rights of reproduction; preparation of derivative works; distribution; public performance; public display; and digital performance in sound recordings.\nEach of these exclusive rights may be divided to any number of recipients, and each may be limited to a specified time or place.\n\nThe compiler, or author of the collection, owns copyright in the expression he or she contributed, which is primarily the selection and arrangement of the separate contributions, but may include such things as a preface, advertisements, etc., that the collective author created.\nThe contributions remain the property of the authors by default, but the property may be passed to the owner of the collective work by a copyright transfer agreement.\nThey may also obtain ownership of the contributions if they are works made for hire.\nThe Copyright Act of 1976 says a work is considered a \"work made for hire\" as either,\n\nIt there is no contract transferring ownership and the contributions are not work for hire, the owner has the right to reproduce, distribute and revise the collective work, but does not have the rights to the individual contributions.\n\nMultiple copies of works for classroom use may be made subject to conditions that include \"not more than one short poem, article, story, essay, or two excerpts may be copied from the same author, not more than three from the same collective work or periodical volume during one class term.\n\nThe websites of daily or weekly magazines or journal such as \"The New York Times\" or \"Time Magazine\" are collective works and qualify for group registration with the Copyright Office.\nElectronic journals that are published one article at a time are not collective works.\nTo defeat the \"innocent infringer\" rule, a collective work website must contain a copyright notice for the work as a whole. \nIt does not need to have a copyright notice for the individual works.\nAdvertisements are not covered by this notice, and require a separate notice to be protected.\nIf a website contains material from the United States government, which is in the public domain, the copyright notice should indicate to readers which parts of the content are public domain and which are not.\nIf the notice does not do so it will be found invalid, and the innocent infringer defense may be used.\n\n\"Metropolitan Regional Information System, Inc. v. American Home Realty Network, Inc.\" [722 F.3d 591] was a United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit case in which a court held that the copyright owner of a collective work such as an automated database was not required by a pre-suit copyright registration requirement to identify names of creators and titles of individual work. Also, clicking yes to the term of use and uploading a photograph, is sufficient to writing component in assignment of right under .\n\nThe Supreme Court case of \"New York Times Co. v. Tasini\" (2001) concerned free-lance journalists who had been paid for their contributions to paper editions of newspapers and magazines, but their contracts had not covered digital rights for reproduction on CD-ROMs or publication on the Internet.\nWhen the articles were distributed in electronic form a few years later, the court ruled that this did not constitute a revision of the work, because the articles could be accessed individually.\nThe court also discussed how the work was presented and visible to the user on the Lexis online periodical database. \nThe databases \"present articles to users clear of the context provided either by the original periodical editions or by any revision of those editions ... without the graphics, formatting, or other articles with which the article was initially published.\n\nIn \"Faulkner v. National Geographic Enterprises Inc.\" (2005), a Court of Appeal ruled that an electronic version of a newspaper was a revision of the collective work if it reproduced the paper version identically, including advertisements and photographs.\nIn the late 1990s National Geographic had begun publishing \"The Complete National Geographic\", a digital compilation of all the past issues of the magazine. \nIt was then sued over copyright of the magazine as a collective work in \"Greenberg v. National Geographic\" and other cases, and temporarily withdrew the availability of the compilation. \nOn June 30, 2008, the Eleventh Circuit held that National Geographic had the right to publish faithful copies of its print magazine electronically.\nThe ruling noted, \nAn online database that contains copyrightable works may be considered a collective work, where the owner of the database has a \"thin\" copyright over the selection and arrangement of the works in the database. The individual works may be covered by separate copyrights.\n\n"}
{"id": "30221670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30221670", "title": "Concert in the Egg", "text": "Concert in the Egg\n\nConcert in the Egg is a painting formerly considered to be a copy of a lost work by Hieronymus Bosch, and which is currently considered to be based on one of his drawings. Max Jakob Friedländer called it 'an old copy', without specifying another work it was copied from.\n\nThe group of singers form the \"yolk\" of the egg, which symbolizes \"fool\" as in \"yokel\". The eel resembles a form of beer (ale). The scene is reminiscent of the similar \"Ship of Fools\". One of the singers is so intent on his song (pointing towards the book) that he doesn't notice that he is being robbed by the lute player.\n\nModern attribution of the painting (to an as yet anonymous follower of Bosch) was based on an analysis of the music in the open book, which shows notes of the chanson \"Toutes les nuictz\" by Thomas Crecquillon from 1549.\nThe work was bought in 1890 for 400 francs by the Palais des Beaux-Arts de Lille from \"Morhange\", a parisian art dealer. It was featured with the Dutch title \"Zangers en musici in een ei\" in an exhibition in 2008 at the Noordbrabants Museum, 's-Hertogenbosch.\n\nPossible models:\n\n"}
{"id": "53910402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53910402", "title": "Dustards", "text": "Dustards\n\nDustards is the first Ukrainian feature-length documentary film about motorcycle travel to Western Ukraine. The film premiered in November 2016.\nThe story takes place in summer 2015, when four friends and a small film crew go on a journey to explore the Carpathian region.\n\nThe film was produced and launched by the company \"Red Glass Production\" known promotional shots for famous brands and collaborations with artists such as Pianoboy, O.Torvald, LOBODA and others. This is the first film project which engaged a team of \"Red Glass\".\n\n"}
{"id": "689969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=689969", "title": "Election (1999 film)", "text": "Election (1999 film)\n\nElection is a 1999 American black comedy-drama film directed and written by Alexander Payne and adapted by him and Jim Taylor from Tom Perrotta's 1998 novel of the same title. The plot revolves around a high school election and satirizes both suburban high school life and politics. The film stars Matthew Broderick as Jim McAllister, a popular high school social studies teacher in suburban Omaha, Nebraska, and Reese Witherspoon as Tracy Flick, around the time of the school's student body election. When Tracy qualifies to run for class president, McAllister believes she does not deserve the title and tries to stop her from winning.\n\nAlthough a box office bomb, \"Election\" received critical acclaim. The film received an Academy Award nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay, a Golden Globe nomination for Witherspoon in the Best Actress category, and the Independent Spirit Award for Best Film in 1999.\n\nJim McAllister is a beloved high school teacher living in Omaha, Nebraska, whose enthusiastic involvement in school activities masks his frustration with other aspects of his life. Tracy Flick is an overachieving senior whom Jim sees as having a secret vindictive and sexual side. Earlier in the year, Tracy had an affair with another teacher, Jim's best friend Dave Novotny. When the affair was discovered, Dave was fired and divorced by his wife Linda; Tracy walked away with her reputation unscathed.\n\nTracy announces to Jim, who is in charge of organizing the school's student government, that she is running for student body president, telling him they \"will be spending a lot of time together.\" Jim sees this as unbridled ambition and sexual manipulation, and finds it repugnant. With Tracy appearing to have no opposition, Jim decides to teach Tracy a lesson in humility by encouraging Paul Metzler, to enter the race. Paul is a polite and popular football player, sidelined due to a broken leg, leaving him depressed. Jim convinces Paul to declare his candidacy, giving him new purpose. This serves to bring out Tracy's vindictiveness, as she resents Paul's effortless popularity.\n\nPaul's younger sister Tammy is dumped by her lover, Lisa, who says that she is straight and was just \"experimenting\". Lisa becomes Paul's girlfriend and campaign manager. In retaliation, Tammy decides to run for president as well, with a nihilistic platform that student government is a sham.\n\nDuring a school assembly to hear the candidates' final campaign speeches, Tracy draws polite applause while Paul initially receives a warm reception despite giving a lackluster and halting speech, while Tammy delivers a defiant address in which she denounces the election and expresses her intention to dissolve the student government if elected. This rallies the student body to a standing ovation. As a result of her subversive speech, Tammy is suspended.\n\nWhile working on a yearbook project, Tracy notices that one of her posters has come untaped from the wall. Attempting to fix it, she accidentally rips the poster apart. In a fit of frustrated rage, she destroys Paul's campaign posters. The following day when Jim confronts Tracy with his suspicion that she was responsible, Tracy claims innocence and threatens legal action against the school. Tammy falsely confesses to Tracy's crime even though she witnessed Tracy disposing of the posters. Tammy's name is removed from the ballot, she is expelled and her parents enroll her in a private parochial school for girls, much to her delight.\n\nThe day before the election, Jim visits Linda's house to help her with a home repair project, whereupon she initiates a physical relationship by kissing him. Linda asks Jim to rent a motel room for an after-school rendezvous, but never shows up at the motel. When Jim drives over to Linda's house to see what happened, he is stung by a bee on his right eyelid, causing a severe allergic reaction. He returns home to find Linda and his wife talking together. Knowing he has been caught, he spends the night in his car.\n\nThe next morning — Election Day — Jim's eyelid is disfigured from the bee sting, but he must oversee the counting of the election ballots. After the ballots are tabulated, it turns out Tracy has won by a single vote. Tracy's one vote margin of victory came about because Paul, feeling it would be dishonorable to vote for himself, voted for Tracy. During the ballot-counting verification, Jim observes Tracy dancing around gleefully in the hall — one of the student vote counters tipped her off that she won — and he secretly disposes of two of Tracy's ballots, declaring Paul the winner. When a janitor discovers the two discarded ballots in the trash and presents them to the principal, Jim is forced to resign. Jim's wife kicks him out of the house when he tries to apologize for what happened with Linda.\n\nDivorced and humiliated, Jim leaves Nebraska, choosing to fulfill his longtime dream of moving to New York City, where he becomes a tour guide at the American Museum of Natural History and begins dating a new woman. Tracy gets accepted into Georgetown University, while Paul gets into the University of Nebraska. Tammy finds a new girlfriend at her all-girls school. Jim encounters Tracy Flick one last time on a trip to Washington, D.C., during which he happens to see her get into a limousine with a male politician. Disgusted by the thought that Tracy's climb up the ladder of success is the result of her calculating and manipulative nature, Jim impulsively hurls a cup of soda at the limo before making a quick getaway. Jim later speaks to a group of elementary school students at the museum, refusing to respond to the raised hand of an overeager girl who reminds him of Tracy Flick.\n\n\nDirector Alexander Payne had become a fan of the novel by Tom Perrotta on which the film is based; the novel's rights were sold to Payne in January 1997. The novel was inspired by two key events. The first was the 1992 Bush vs. Clinton election campaign, in which Ross Perot entered as a third party candidate (a move echoed by Tammy Metzler). The second was a 1992 incident at Memorial High School in Eau Claire, Wisconsin, in which a pregnant student was elected homecoming queen, but staff announced a different winner and burned the ballots to cover it up.\n\nThe film uses a number of stylized techniques in its storytelling, particularly through the use of freeze frames, flashbacks and voiceovers, which allow sections of the narrative to be delivered from the points of view of the four main characters.\n\n\"Election\" was a box office bomb as it grossed only $14.9 million against a budget of $25 million.\n\nThe film, however, was met with critical acclaim. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a rating of 93%, based on 107 reviews, with an average rating of 7.8/10. The critical consensus reads, \"\"Election\" successfully combines dark humor and intelligent writing in this very witty and enjoyable film.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 83 out of 100, based on 33 reviews, indicating \"universal acclaim\".\n\nRoger Ebert gave the film three and a half stars out of four, praising Witherspoon and Payne, and saying, \"...here is a movie that is not simply about an obnoxious student, but also about an imperfect teacher, a lockstep administration, and a student body that is mostly just marking time until it can go out into the world and occupy valuable space\".\n\n\"Election\" is ranked #61 on Bravo's \"100 Funniest Movies\" and #9 on \"Entertainment Weekly\"'s list of the \"50 Best High School Movies\", while Witherspoon's performance was ranked at #45 on the list of the \"100 Greatest Film Performances of All Time\" by \"Premiere\". According to Payne, it is also President Barack Obama's favorite political film.\n\n"}
{"id": "38770547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38770547", "title": "Five Bathing Women at a Lake", "text": "Five Bathing Women at a Lake\n\nFive Bathing at a Lake (German: Fünf badende am See) is a painting by the Expressionist German painter Ernst Ludwig Kirchner.\n"}
{"id": "44969763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44969763", "title": "Gold Medal (National Eisteddfod of Wales)", "text": "Gold Medal (National Eisteddfod of Wales)\n\nThe Gold Medal (Welsh: \"Medal Aur\") of the National Eisteddfod of Wales is awarded annually in three categories for excellence in Fine Art, Architecture, or Craft and Design.\n\nThe National Eisteddfod of Wales is Wales' most important national cultural event, taking place annually. Its open exhibition of art and craft, \"Y Lle Celf\" (Welsh: 'The Art Space') is one of the highlights of the Welsh arts calendar. Gold medals are awarded in the Visual Arts section for outstanding contributions in different media: a Gold Medal for Fine Art has been awarded since 1951; a medal for Architecture has been offered since 1954 (though withheld and not awarded between 1954 and 1959); and a Gold Medal for Craft and Design has been awarded since 1985.\n\nOther awards are the Tony Goble Award, given to a first time exhibitor, and the Josef Herman Award, chosen by the public (Josef Herman, a Polish emigree, won the Fine Art medal in 1962).\n\nThe Architecture award was endowed by Thomas Alwyn Lloyd and is given in conjunction with the Design Commission for Wales and the Royal Society of Architects in Wales, who advise the Eisteddfod judges.\n\nThe award is given to practitioners working in Wales, and a language rule has been in force since 1950 that any original words in art works must be in the Welsh language. In 2013 there was controversy when a video entirely in English by England-born University of Wales Newport student Josephine Sowden was awarded the Fine Art medal.\n\nIn January 2014 the Wales Millennium Centre (WMC) and Craft in the Bay, Cardiff held an exhibition showcasing the work of previous winners of the Fine Art and the Craft awards.\n\nThe 2014 Open Exhibition exhibited the work of 44 artists, selected from 300 entries.\n\nSource: The National Eisteddfod of Wales\n\nSource: The National Eisteddfod of Wales\n"}
{"id": "31608508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31608508", "title": "Hessisches Staatstheater Wiesbaden", "text": "Hessisches Staatstheater Wiesbaden\n\nThe Hessisches Staatstheater Wiesbaden is the State Theatre of the German state Hesse in its capital Wiesbaden, producing operas, plays, ballets, musicals and concerts on four stages. It is also known as Staatstheater Wiesbaden or \"Theater Wiesbaden\", its orchestra is the Hessisches Staatsorchester. The building was inaugurated in 1894.\n\nThe theatre is the host for the annual festival Internationale Maifestspiele Wiesbaden, established in 1896 after the Bayreuth Festival.\n\nThe building of the theatre was initiated and substantially supported by the German emperor William I who regularly visited the spa in Wiesbaden. A competition was won by a team of architects from Vienna, Ferdinand Fellner and Hermann Helmer. They erected the building from 1892 to 1894 in Baroque Revival style, following models in Prague and Zurich. The inauguration was on 16 October 1894 in the presence of the emperor. The Foyer was built in 1902 by architect Felix Genzmer. It serves three stages.\n\nAfter World War I the theatre was renamed \"Preußisches Staatstheater\" (Prussian State Theatre). Since 1932 the city of Wiesbaden was responsible for the theatre, therefore it was renamed \"Nassauisches Landestheater\" (Theater of the Province Nassau).\nThe building was seriously damaged in World War II by a bomb on 3 February 1945. The front was restored in a simplified way and the ceiling of the hall was decorated with a contemporary painting.\n\nIn 1946 the State of Hesse took over the operation of the theatre. In 1947 it was used again and called \"Großhessisches Staatstheater\" (State Theater of Great Hesse), later \"Hessisches Staatstheater Wiesbaden\".\n\nFrom 1975 to 1978 the auditorium was restored according to the historic model. The technical equipment was modernized. A new tract was built, designed by Hardt-Waltherr Hämer, for rehearsal rooms, workshops and administration.\n\nThe theatre has four stages, three of them in the historic house: \n\nThe staff consist of about 600 people. Annually more than 25 new operas, plays and ballets have been produced.\n\nThe theatre is especially dedicated to a young audience, collaborating with schools for \"Schultheatertage\". A professional ensemble, \"Junges Staatstheater\" (Young State Theater) is dedicated to children's and youth theater.\n\nIn addition to the annual Internationale Maifestspiele in May, since 2004 a biennial festival \"Neue Stücke aus Europa\" (New European Plays) is organized in collaboration with the Staatstheater Mainz, presenting in ten days new plays in the original language with simultaneous translation.\n\n\n\nWiesbaden's first major orchestra was in 1873 the \"Städtisches Cur- und Sinfonieorchester\" (Communal Spa and Symphony Orchestra). Its conductor from 1874 to 1905, Louis Lüstner, established besides entertaining music for the spa audience twelve symphony concerts a year. During this period Johannes Brahms, Clara Schumann, Joseph Joachim, Camille Saint-Saëns and Pablo de Sarasate appeared in concert, among others. Felix Mottl was a regular guest conductor from 1894. The number of players was raised from 56 to 65 in 1905 to 1911. From 1912 Carl Schuricht was the conductor, appointed Generalmusikdirektor (GMD) 1921. Regular guest conductors during his era, which lasted until 1944, included Fritz Busch, Felix Weingartner, Bruno Walter and Richard Strauss.\n\nThe second orchestra \"Staatskapelle\", was founded in 1894, with the new opera house, to play exclusively opera and ballet. Conductors included:\n\n\n\nGuest conductors included Thomas Beecham, Leo Blech and Fritz Busch. Richard Strauss conducted opera almost annually.\n\nAfter the war, a fusion of the two orchestras under the new name \"Hessisches Staatsorchester\" was initiated and finalized by Wolfgang Sawallisch end of the 1950s. Conductors included:\n\n\n\nAlbert Horne, chorus master from the 2014/15 season, has also conducted operas, such as Peter Grimes in 2017.\n\nNotes\n\nOther sources\n\n"}
{"id": "46373273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46373273", "title": "I Hate Myselfie", "text": "I Hate Myselfie\n\nI Hate Myselfie is a memoir released by Shane Dawson released on March 10, 2015. In it, he recounts eighteen of his most embarrassing and inspiring life stories. \n\nHis book is a \"New York Times\" and \"Wall Street Journal\" bestseller according to Simon & Schuster.\n"}
{"id": "24829102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24829102", "title": "Jane Murfin", "text": "Jane Murfin\n\nJane Murfin (October 27, 1884 – August 10, 1955) was an American playwright and screenwriter. The author of several successful plays, she wrote some of them with actress Jane Cowl—most notably \"Smilin' Through\" (1919), a sentimental fantasy that was adapted three times for motion pictures. In Hollywood Murfin became a popular screenwriter whose credits include \"What Price Hollywood?\" (1932), for which she received an Academy Award nomination. In the 1920s she wrote and produced films for her dog Strongheart, the first major canine star.\n\nJane Macklem was born October 27, 1884, in Quincy, Michigan. In 1907 she married attorney James Murfin, and retained his surname when the marriage ended fewer than five years later.\n\nMurfin began her career with the play \"Lilac Time\", which she co-wrote with actress Jane Cowl. The Broadway production opened February 6, 1917, and ran for 176 performances. Later that year the two women began collaborating, often under pseudonym Allan Langdon Martin, on a series of revivals of World War I melodramas. The pair later collaborated on \"Daybreak\", followed by \"Information Please\" (1918) and \"Smilin' Through\" (1919).\n\nIn Hollywood, Murfin became a leading screenwriter, writing many romantic comedies and dramas by herself or in collaboration.\n\nIn 1920, director Laurence Trimble persuaded Murfin to purchase a German Shepherd dog—Strongheart—that became the first major canine film star. Strongheart starred in four films that Trimble directed from Murfin's screenplays: \"The Silent Call\" (1921), \"Brawn of the North\" (1922), \"The Love Master\" (1924) and \"White Fang\" (1925).\n\nMurfin is credited with directing one film, \"Flapper Wives\" (1924), before the dissolution of her partnership with Trimble. Film historian Kevin Brownlow described this partnership as both professional and personal; although some sources describe Trimble and Murfin as a husband-and-wife filmmaking team, no marriage has been substantiated.\n\nMurfin's later screenwriting credits include \"Way Back Home\" (1931), \"Our Betters\" (1933), \"The Little Minister\" (1934), \"Spitfire\" (1934), \"Roberta\" (1935), \"Alice Adams\" (1935), \"The Women\" (1939), \"Pride and Prejudice\" (1940), and \"Dragon Seed\" (1944).\n\nMurfin was married to director and actor Donald Crisp from 1932 until 1944.\n\nShe is buried near Jane Cowl at Valhalla Memorial Park Cemetery.\n\nMurfin was married first to lawyer James Murfin from 1907 to 1912. Her second marriage was to actor Donald Crisp, for whom she would write parts in her scripts.\n\nMurfin and Adela Rogers St. Johns were nominated for the Academy Award for Best Story for \"What Price Hollywood?\" (1932). Frances Marion received the award, for \"The Champ\".\n\nMurfin is credited as a writer; additional production credits are noted.\n\n"}
{"id": "37067939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37067939", "title": "Karnataka Folklore University", "text": "Karnataka Folklore University\n\nKarnataka Folklore University, also known as Karnataka Janapada Vishwavidyalaya, is a public university exclusively dedicated to the study and research of folklore. It was established in 2011 at Haveri district by the Government of Karnataka. Its first vice chancellor is Ambalike Hiriyanna.\n\nThe university is claimed to be world's first university for folklore. It was inaugurated on 16 June 2012 by the Chief Minister of Karnataka Sri B S Yediyurappa. The university is in Gotagodi, Shiggaon, Karnataka, India. It offers degrees M.A. in various fields as well MBA, MPhil and PhD.\n"}
{"id": "50593511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50593511", "title": "Kasbah of Béja", "text": "Kasbah of Béja\n\nThe Kasbah of Béja is a historical citadel in the Tunisian city Béja, the Kasbah was built in the 2nd century BC and still exists till today which makes it one of oldest citadels in the region.\n\nThe Kasbah was built on the top of a hill of 305 meters in northern Béja, and this site was chosen so the castle can overlook the city and its surrounding plains and countryside.\n\nThe first citadel of Béja was built in 2nd century BC by the Carthaginians, at that time Béja was called Vaga and was an important agriculture town so Carthage needed to protect specially from barbarian raids, but after the decline of the Carthaginian power, specially after the third Punic war, the city fell under the influence of the Numidians and their king Jugurtha made the fortress his center of reign. \nIn 109 BC the Romans took power over the castle and then destroyed it. In 14 BC the Romans rebuilt the fort and improved it adding a garrison, walls and 22 towers.\nThe fort was once again razed to the ground this time by Vandals during the vandal invasion of North Africa, and the building only raised again by the Byzantines after their liberation of the city from the Vandal rule, where the Byzantine emperor Justinian I ordered in 533 Count Paulos to reconstruct the castle. \nThe expansion of the fort continued after the Muslim conquest of the Maghreb where the new Muslim rulers of the country gave it the name \"Kasbah\" and made it the official center of their representatives of the northern-region, the expansion continued during the rule of the Aghlabids but in 943 the Kasbah suffered major damage when Béja was sacked by the Kharijite rebels led by Abu Yazid and in 945 the kasbah was restored by the Fatimide Caliph Al-Mansur Billah.\n\nIn the 16th century, during the reign of Ahmed III, the Kasbah was fortified by adding 14 canons to the fort. \nThe Ottomans too gave their part in the expansion of the citadel by establishing a flanking tower that protected the southern parts of the Kasbah and a garrison of the Janissary, and in 1677 the Tunisian monarch Ali I Bey supported the garrison by a battalion of 500 knights from Spahis.\nAfter the French occupation of Tunisia in 1881, the Kasbah become a Gendarmerie barrack, and that from September 21, 1888 till the independence of the country in 1957.\n\nAfter the independence of Tunisia from France, the fortress was turned into a cultural center, but today the Kasbah is in bad conditions. Restorations started in 2005 and directed by the Tunisian National Heritage Institute, but it has stopped for lack of funding.\n\n\"Research of Dr.Zouhair Ben Youssef\"\n\"Abbé Neu, Notice historique sur la ville de Béja\n"}
{"id": "19002397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19002397", "title": "Knowing and the Known", "text": "Knowing and the Known\n\nKnowing and the Known is a 1949 book by John Dewey and Arthur Bentley.\n\nAs well as a Preface, an Introduction and an Index, the book consists of 12 chapters, or papers, as the authors call them in their introduction. Chapters 1 (Vagueness in Logic), 8 (Logic in an Age of Science) and 9 (A Confused \"Semiotic\") were written by Bentley; Chapter 10 (Common Sense and Science) by Dewey, while the remainder were signed jointly.\n\nThe terminology problem in the fields of epistemology and logic is partially due, according to Dewey and Bentley, to inefficient and imprecise use of words and concepts that reflect three historic levels of organization and presentation. In the order of chronological appearance, these are :\n\n\n\nA series of characterizations of Transactions indicate the wide range of considerations involved.\n\n\nIllustration of differences between self-action, interaction, and transaction, as well as the different facets of transactional inquiry are provided by statements of positions that Dewey and Bentley definitely did \"not\" hold and which \"never should be read\" into their work.\n\n\nIn summary, all of human knowledge consists of actions and products of acts in which men and women participate with other human beings, with animals and plants, as well as objects of all types, in any environment. Men and women have, are, and will present their acts of knowing and known in language. Generic people, and specific men and women, are known to be vulnerable to error. Consequently, all knowledge (knowing and known) whether commonsensical or scientific; past, present, or future; is subject to further inquiry, examination, review, and revision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56401260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56401260", "title": "Limes Mauretaniae", "text": "Limes Mauretaniae\n\nThe Limes Mauretaniae was a Roman frontier territory in Africa and a defense line approximately 100 kilometers south of the modern day Algiers.\n\nIt was part of the North-African borderline between the Atlantic coast and the Limes Tripolitanus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23793577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23793577", "title": "Lindo lamp", "text": "Lindo lamp\n\nThe Lindo lamp is a silver Chanukah menorah. It is the oldest known example of a Chanukah menorah made in Britain.\n\nThe lamp was created by London silversmith John Ruslen in 1709. It was commissioned to celebrate the marriage of Elias Lindo and Rachel Lopes Ferreira. The couple were married at London's Bevis Marks Synagogue on February 2, 1708–09.\n\nThe lamp has been on loan to the London Jewish Museum, which has displayed it for 77 years, since the day the museum opened in 1932. The lamp is considered to be among the most important objects in the museum's collection. It is feared that if sufficient funds cannot be raised to purchase the lamp, it will be purchased by a private collector and disappear from public view. If the Museum, which is undergoing a major renovation, manages to raise sufficient funds to purchase the menorah, it will be on view in a new gallery entitled \"Judaism: A Living Faith\", designed to display the museum's \"magnificent\" collection of Jewish ceremonial art. The Museum's collection of ceremonial art has been awarded \"designated\" status by the Museums, Libraries and Archives Council in recognition of its outstanding national importance.\n\nIn 2009 the family that has long loaned the lamp to the Museum announced that it wished to sell the lamp, a price of £300,000 was set should the Museum wish to purchase the lamp. The National Heritage Memorial Fund (NHMF) agreed to contribute £145,000. The Art Fund offered to contribute £75,000 and the MLA /V&A Purchase Fund £30,000, if the Museum can raise the remaining £50,000 from private donors.\n\nThe sterling silver menorah is chased with a relief image of the Prophet Elijah fed by ravens, a scene from the Book of Kings (I Kings 17:6). It is common for Jewish ceremonial artistic objects to depict a biblical character bearing the same name as the patron who commissioned an object, in this case Elias (Elijah) Lindo. The subject is not very common in Jewish art, but it was popular in the Baroque period in both Catholic and Protestant lands. A well-known \"Elijah fed by Ravens\" painted in 1620 by Guercino hangs in the National Gallery. A version by Abraham Bloemaert is owned by the Cleveland Museum of Art.\n"}
{"id": "30948079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30948079", "title": "List of Nepenthes literature", "text": "List of Nepenthes literature\n\nThis list of \"Nepenthes\" literature is a listing of major published works dealing with the tropical pitcher plants of the genus \"Nepenthes\". It includes specialised standalone publications and taxonomic monographs released as part of larger works, but excludes regular journal and magazine articles.\n\nUnless otherwise indicated, all information on individual publications is sourced from them directly. Works are listed chronologically by year of first publication.\n\nThis list includes all works published as standalone books or booklets, with the exception of children's literature, which is listed separately below.\n\nThis list includes major monographs that were \"not\" released as standalone publications. In the case of journal articles and papers, the parent publication is indicated in brackets.\n\nOnly the primary prosaic language is listed for each publication, although many of the earlier monographs also include substantial portions of Latin text in the form of taxon descriptions. Some of the taxa formally described in these monographs are not considered taxonomically valid today. \n\n"}
{"id": "4953869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4953869", "title": "List of Puddle Lane books", "text": "List of Puddle Lane books\n\nThe \"Puddle Lane\" children's books were published by Ladybird Books during the second half of the 1980s. The stories were based on a TV program of the same name (see Puddle Lane). Sheila K McCullagh, who wrote the stories for the TV program, also wrote the books. \n\nFive sets of books were produced, the first set being the easiest to read (Reading Programme Stage 1). Books of each set featured a distinct cover colour. All books are in hardcover format, 7 inches tall and 4.75 inches wide (standard Ladybird format). Here's a list of all 54 books in the series:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAdditionally, two standalone books were produced: \"Christmas in Puddle Lane\" and \"The Big Puddle Lane Story Book\", both written by Sheila McCullagh. They contained several new stories and some songs.\n"}
{"id": "14250014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14250014", "title": "List of fictional literature featuring opera", "text": "List of fictional literature featuring opera\n\nThis is a list of literary fiction which feature opera in the plot. \"Features\" excludes fleeting mentions: for a literary work to be on this list opera must be a significant part of the plot, or, alternatively, provide significant context and backdrop.\n"}
{"id": "781758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=781758", "title": "Little Women (1994 film)", "text": "Little Women (1994 film)\n\nLittle Women is a 1994 American family drama film directed by Gillian Armstrong. The screenplay by Robin Swicord, is based on Louisa May Alcott's 1868 novel of the same name. It is the fifth feature film adaptation of the Alcott classic, following silent versions released in 1917 and 1918, a 1933 George Cukor-directed release and a 1949 adaptation by Mervyn LeRoy, with the story subsequently adapted in 2019 starring Saoirse Ronan. It was released exclusively on December 21, 1994, and was released nationwide four days later on December 25, 1994, by Columbia Pictures. The film is dedicated to murder victim Polly Klaas and literary agent Judy Scott-Fox.\n\nThe film focuses on the March sisters: beautiful Meg, Jo, tender Beth, and romantic Amy, who are growing up in Concord, Massachusetts during and after the American Civil War. With their father away fighting in the war, the girls struggle with major and minor problems under the guidance of their strong-willed mother, affectionately called Marmee. As a means of escaping some of their problems, the sisters revel in performing in romantic plays written by Jo in their attic theater.\n\nLiving next door to the family is wealthy Mr. Laurence, whose grandson Theodore, nicknamed \"Laurie\", moves in with him and becomes a close friend of the March family, particularly Jo. Mr. Laurence becomes a mentor for Beth, whose exquisite piano-playing reminds him of his deceased young daughter, and Meg falls in love with Laurie's tutor John Brooke.\n\nWhen Mr. March is wounded in the war, Jo sells her hair so that Marmee can purchase a train ticket to travel to Mr. March and nurse him back to health. While Marmee is away, Beth continues Marmee's visits to a struggling family in order to provide them food and firewood. During this time she contracts scarlet fever from the family's infant. Awaiting Marmee's return, Meg and Jo, who both previously survived scarlet fever, send Amy away to live in safety with their Aunt March. Fearing that she too may contract the illness, Amy laments to Laurie that she may die without ever being kissed. Laurie promises Amy to kiss her before she dies should she become ill. Prior to Beth's illness, Jo had been Aunt March's companion for several years, and while she was unhappy with her position she tolerated it in the hope her aunt one day would take her to Europe. When Beth's condition worsens, Marmee is summoned home and nurses her to recovery just in time for Christmas. Mr. Laurence gives his daughter's piano to Beth, Meg accepts John Brooke's proposal and Mr. March surprises his family by returning home from the war.\n\nFour years pass; Meg (now twenty) and John marry, and Beth's health is deteriorating steadily. Laurie graduates from college, proposes to Jo (now nineteen) and asks her to go to London with him, but realizing she thinks of him more as an older brother than a lover, she refuses his offer. Jo later deals with the added disappointment that Aunt March has decided to take, the now seventeen year old, Amy with her to Europe instead of Jo, as Amy now works as aunt's companion and Aunt March wishes for Amy to further her training as an artist in Europe. Crushed, Jo departs for New York City to pursue her dream of writing and experiencing life. There she meets Friedrich Bhaer, a German professor who challenges and stimulates her intellectually, introduces her to opera and philosophy, and encourages her to write better stories than the lurid Victorian melodramas she has penned so far.\n\nIn Europe, Amy is reunited with Laurie. She is disappointed to find he has become dissolute and irresponsible, and scolds him for pursuing her merely to become part of the March family. In return, he bitterly rebukes her for courting one of his wealthy college friends in order to marry into money. He leaves Amy a letter asking her to wait for him while he works in London for his grandfather and makes himself worthy of her.\n\nJo is summoned home to see eighteen year old Beth, who finally dies of the lingering effects of scarlet fever (presumably rheumatic heart disease) that have plagued her for the past four years. A saddened Jo retreats to the comfort of the attic and begins to write her life story. Upon its completion, she sends it to Professor Bhaer. Meanwhile, Meg gives birth to fraternal twins Demi and Daisy.\n\nA letter from Amy informs the family that Aunt March is too ill to travel, so Amy must remain in Europe with her. In London, Laurie receives a letter from Jo in which she informs him of Beth's death and mentions Amy is in Vevey, unable to come home. Laurie immediately travels to be at Amy's side. They finally return to the March home as husband and wife, much to Jo's surprise and eventual delight.\n\nAunt March dies and she leaves Jo her house, which she decides to convert into a school. Professor Bhaer arrives with the printed galley proofs of her manuscript, but when he mistakenly believes Jo has married Laurie he departs to catch a train to the West, where he is to become a teacher. Jo runs after him and explains the misunderstanding. When she begs him not to leave, he proposes marriage and she happily accepts.\n\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" awarded the film 3 stars, calling it \"a surprisingly sharp and intelligent telling of Louisa May Alcott's famous story, and not the soft-edged children's movie it might appear.\" He added, \"[It] grew on me. At first, I was grumpy, thinking it was going to be too sweet and devout. Gradually, I saw that Gillian Armstrong [...] was taking it seriously. And then I began to appreciate the ensemble acting, with the five actresses creating the warmth and familiarity of a real family.\"\n\nEdward Guthmann of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" called the film \"meticulously crafted and warmly acted\" and observed it \"is one of the rare Hollywood studio films that invites your attention, slowly and elegantly, rather than propelling your interest with effects and easy manipulation.\"\n\n\"Little Women\" has a strong 91% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 32 reviews with an average rating of 7.5/10 and with the consensus: \"Thanks to a powerhouse lineup of talented actresses, Gillian Armstrong's take on Louisa May Alcott's \"Little Women\" proves that a timeless story can succeed no matter how many times it's told.\"\n\nThe film opened on 1,503 screens in the US and Canada on December 21, 1994. It grossed $5.3 million and ranked #6 at the box office on its opening weekend and eventually earned $50.1 million. Against its budget of $18 million, the film was a success.\n\nThe film was nominated for three Academy Awards, including Best Actress for Winona Ryder, Best Costume Design for Colleen Atwood (who was nominated for the BAFTA Award in the same category), and Best Original Score for composer Thomas Newman, who won the BMI Film Music Award.\n\nWinona Ryder was named Best Actress by the Kansas City Film Critics Circle Awards. Kirsten Dunst won the Young Artist Award, and the Boston Society of Film Critics honored her for her performance in both \"Little Women\" and \"Interview with the Vampire\".\n\nRobin Swicord was nominated for the Writers Guild of America Award for Best Adapted Screenplay but lost to Eric Roth for \"Forrest Gump\".\n\nThe film had its initial North America video release on VHS on June 20, 1995, followed by its initial digital release on DVD on April 25, 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "46407540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46407540", "title": "Lydia Ainsworth", "text": "Lydia Ainsworth\n\nLydia Ainsworth is a composer, producer and singer based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On September 30, 2014 she released her debut album \"Right From Real\" on Arbutus Records.\n\nOriginally from Toronto, Ainsworth was born to a singer-songwriter father and a set designer mother. She began learning cello at age 10 and attended the Etobicoke School of the Arts as a teenager. She completed a Bachelor's degree in music composition at McGill University and was named an Emerging Artist by the Canada Council for the Arts in 2008. She moved to New York City to complete a Master's degree in music composition on a grant at New York University. She began composing student films while at McGill University, and in 2011 she composed the score for the film \"The Woods\" directed by Matthew Lessner. She began recording her first album, \"Right from Real\", in her New York apartment after a period of self-imposed isolation, but completed the album in Toronto. The album was released by Montreal-based independent label Arbutus Records and in 2015 was a nominee for the Juno Award for the Electronic Album of the Year. In 2016, she was named by CBC Music as one of \"6 Canadian female producers you need to know.\" Ainsworth announced her second album, \"Darling of the Afterglow\", on January 10, 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "886613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=886613", "title": "Martha Byrne", "text": "Martha Byrne\n\nMary Martha Byrne (born December 23, 1969) is an American actress, singer and television writer. She played the role of Lily Walsh Snyder on the soap opera \"As the World Turns\" from 1985 to 1989, then again from 1993 to 2008; as well as, from 2000 to 2003, Lily's twin sister, Rose D'Angelo. Byrne has also appeared in other stage, television and movie roles, including the title role in the 1983 film \"Anna to the Infinite Power\". She is currently executive producer of the digital drama series \"Anacostia\", where she has played the role of Alexis Jordan since 2011. Byrne has won three Daytime Emmy Awards for acting.\n\nByrne was born in Ridgewood, New Jersey, the daughter of Terrence Joseph and Mary Adele (née TuMulty) Byrne.\n\nByrne began acting at a young age when she joined the cast of the Broadway musical \"Annie\", where she played the role of July.\n\nShe was a featured actor on a number of prime time episodic television programs, including \"Kate and Allie\", \"Murder, She Wrote\", \"Parker Lewis Can't Lose\", \"Jake and the Fatman\", \"In the Heat of the Night\", and \"Hearts are Wild\". Byrne also appeared in several television movies, with featured roles in \"When the Cradle Falls\" and \"Pink Lightning.\"\n\nByrne's best known film role was as the title character in the 1983 film \"Anna to the Infinite Power\". In 2010 she provided the commentary for the film's DVD release.\n\nByrne is best known for portraying Lily Walsh Snyder on the CBS Daytime soap opera \"As the World Turns\". She started in May 1985 at age 15, taking over from another teenage actress. Byrne soon became part of a \"supercouple\" when then-head writer Douglas Marland paired \"poor little rich girl\" Lily with hard-luck farmhand Holden Snyder, played by Jon Hensley. The show attracted controversy in 1987 when Byrne—months shy of her 18th birthday—and equally underage actor Brian Bloom played out a storyline in which they lost their virginity to each other.\n\nByrne won a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Younger Actress in 1987. She left \"As the World Turns\" in 1989, and returned in April 1993. From 2000 until 2003, Byrne also played a second role, Lily's long-lost twin, Rose D'Angelo. She won another Daytime Emmy in 2001, this time as Outstanding Lead Actress.\n\nByrne left \"As the World Turns\" again in April 2008. The show's executive producer Christopher Goutman stated, \"We made Martha an incredibly generous offer in hopes that she would remain a valuable member of the \"ATWT\" cast. Unfortunately, Martha has decided to leave despite our best efforts to keep her.\" Byrne later asserted that the contract negotiations fell through because the show refused to guarantee her the same number of episodes of work she had previously been guaranteed. She added that a casting call was made for her successor during her contract negotiations, which fueled her drive to leave. Byrne's last airdate on the show was April 22, 2008; her successor, Noelle Beck, appeared in the role of Lily from May 2008 until the series' end in 2010.\n\nByrne was hired as a script writer by Bradley Bell for \"The Bold and the Beautiful\" in early 2009. From June 17 though September 9, 2009, she portrayed Andrea Floyd on the ABC soap opera \"General Hospital\".\n\nByrne began portraying Alexis Jordan (née Joanne Edwards) on the soap opera web series \"Anacostia\" in 2011, winning a 2012 Indie Series Award for Best Guest Appearance (Drama), and a 2015 Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Performer in a New Approaches Drama Series. The entire cast won a 2015 Indie Series Award for Best Ensemble (Drama). Byrne served as a co-executive producer, director and writer for the series from 2012-2016, and was promoted to Executive Producer in the show's 2017 fifth season. As a producer, Byrne was also nominated for the Daytime Emmy for Outstanding New Approaches Drama Series in 2015.\n\nByrne is also a singer. She contributed a Christmas medley to the 1994 RCA release, \"A Soap Opera Christmas.\" She released her self-titled album \"Martha Byrne\" in 1996.\n\nShe has also released a second album, \"Woman Thing Music\". Byrne again was the subject of controversy, as the sponsor of the second album was Philip Morris. The CD could only be purchased in conjunction with the purchase of cigarettes, or at one of the \"Woman Music Thing\" concerts that Philip Morris sponsored. Byrne eventually withdrew endorsement from the music label, as she did not want to be associated with a product that could encourage underage smoking.\n\nIn 2006 Byrne released a third album, \"The Other Side\".\n\nByrne is a ten-time Daytime Emmy Award-nominee as actress and producer, winning Outstanding Younger Actress in 1987, Outstanding Lead Actress in 2001, and Outstanding Performer in a New Approaches Drama Series in 2015.\n\nByrne married Michael McMahon, a former undercover officer in the New York City Police Department, on November 12, 1994. She grew up in Waldwick, New Jersey and lives in nearby Ridgewood.\n\nTheir first child, Michael Terrence McMahon, was born on May 29, 1998. An episode of the TLC series \"A Baby Story\" chronicled her second pregnancy and the birth of her son, Maxwell Vincent McMahon, on September 3, 2002. Their third child and first daughter, Annmarie, was born June 12, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "79317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79317", "title": "Moirai", "text": "Moirai\n\nIn ancient Greek religion and mythology, the Moirai or Moerae (; , \"apportioners\"), often known in English as the Fates (), were the white-robed incarnations of destiny; their Roman equivalent was the Parcae (euphemistically the \"sparing ones\"), there are other equivalents in cultures that descend from the proto-Indo-European culture. Their number became fixed at three: Clotho (spinner), Lachesis (allotter) and Atropos (literally 'unturnable' but metaphorically 'inflexible' or 'inevitable' – i.e. death).\n\nThey controlled the mother thread of life of every mortal from birth to death. They were independent, at the helm of necessity, directed fate, and watched that the fate assigned to every being by eternal laws might take its course without obstruction. The gods and men had to submit to them, although Zeus's relationship with them is a matter of debate: some sources say he can command them (the \"Zeus Moiragetes\"), yet others suggest he was also bound to the Moirai's dictates. \n\nIn the Homeric poems Moira or Aisa, is related with the limit and end of life, and Zeus appears as the guider of destiny. In the \"Theogony\" of Hesiod, the three Moirai are personified, daughters of Nyx and are acting over the gods. Later they are daughters of Zeus and Themis, who was the embodiment of divine order and law. In Plato's \"Republic\" the Three Fates are daughters of Ananke (necessity).\n\nIt seems that Moira is related with Tekmor (proof, ordinance) and with Ananke (destiny, necessity), who were primeval goddesses in mythical cosmogonies. The ancient Greek writers might call this power Moira or Ananke, and even the gods could not alter what was ordained :\n\n\"To the Moirai (Moirae, Fates) the might of Zeus must bow; and by the Immortals' purpose all these things had come to pass, or by the Moirai's ordinance.\"\n\nThe concept of a universal principle of natural order has been compared to similar concepts in other cultures like the Vedic Rta, the Avestan Asha (Arta) and the Egyptian Maat.\n\nIn earliest Greek philosophy, the cosmogony of Anaximander is based on these mythical beliefs. The goddess Dike (justice, divine retribution), keeps the order and sets a limit to any actions.\n\nThe ancient Greek word moira (μοῖρα) means a portion or lot of the whole, and is related to \"meros\", \"part, lot\" and \"moros\", \"fate, doom\", Latin \"meritum\", \"reward\", English \"merit\", derived from the PIE root \"*(s)mer\", \"to allot, assign\".\n\nMoira may mean portion or share in the distribution of booty (ίση μοῖρα \"ísē moîra\" \"equal booty\"), portion in life, lot, destiny, (μοῖραv ἔθηκαν ἀθάνατοι \"moîran éthēken athánatoi\" \"the immortals fixed the destiny\") death (μοῖρα θανάτοιο \"moîra thanátoio\" \"destiny of death\"), portion of the distributed land., The word is also used for something which is meet and right (κατὰ μοῖραν, \"katà moîran\", \"according to fate, in order, rightly\")\n\nIt seems that originally the word moira did not indicate destiny but included \"ascertainment\" or \"proof\", a non-abstract certainty. The word daemon, which was an agent related to unexpected events, came to be similar to the word moira. This agent or cause against human control might be also called tyche (chance, fate): \"You mistress moira, and tyche, and my daemon \"\n\nThe word \"nomos\", \"law\", may have meant originally a portion or lot, as in the verb \"nemein\", \"to distribute\", and thus \"natural lot\" came to mean \"natural law\". The word \"dike\", \"justice\", conveyed the notion that someone should stay within his own specified boundaries, respecting the ones of his neighbour. If someone broke his boundaries, thus getting more than his ordained part, then he would be punished by law. By extension, \"moira\" was one's portion or part in destiny which consisted of good and bad moments as was predetermined by the \"Moirai\" (Fates), and it was impossible for anyone to get more than his ordained part. In modern Greek the word came to mean \"destiny\" (μοίρα or ειμαρμένη).\n\nKismet, the predetermined course of events in the Muslim traditions, seems to have a similar etymology and function: Arabic \"qismat\" \"lot\" \"qasama\", \"to divide, allot\" developed to mean Fate or destiny. As a loanword, qesmat 'fate' appears in Persian, whence in Urdu language, and eventually in English Kismet.\n\nWhen they were three, the Moirai were:\n\nIn the \"Republic\" of Plato, the three Moirai sing in unison with the music of the Seirenes. Lachesis sings the things that were, Clotho the things that are, and Atropos the things that are to be. Pindar in his Hymn to the Fates, holds them in high honour. He calls them to send their sisters Hours, Eunomia (Lawfulness), Dike (Right), and Eirene (Peace), to stop the internal civil strife:\n\nIn ancient times caves were used for burial purposes in eastern Mediterranean, along with underground shrines or temples. The priests and the priestesses had considerable influence upon the world of the living. Births are recorded in such shrines, and the Greek legend of conception and birth in the tomb – as in the story of Danae- is based on the ancient belief that the dead know the future. Such caves were the caves of Ida and Dikte mountains in Crete, where myth situates the birth of Zeus and other gods, and the cave of Eileithyia near Knossos. The relative Minoan goddesses were named Diktynna (later identified with Artemis), who was a mountain nymph of hunting, and Eileithyia who was the goddess of childbirth.\n\nIt seems that in Pre-Greek religion Aisa was a daemon. In Mycenean religion Aisa or Moira was originally a living power related with the limit and end of life. At the moment of birth she spins the destiny, because birth ordains death. Later Aisa is not alone, but she is accompanied by the \"Spinners\", who are the personifications of Fate. The act of spinning is also associated with the gods, who at birth and at marriage do not spin the thread of life, but individual events like destruction, return or good fortune. Everything which has been spun must be winded on the spindle, and this was considered a cloth, like a net or loop which captured man.\n\nInvisible bonds and knots could be controlled from a loom, and twining was a magic art used by the magicians to harm a person, and control his individual fate. Similar ideas appear in Norse mythology, and in Greek folklore. The appearance of the gods and the Moirai may be related to the fairy tale motif, which is common in many Indo-European sagas and also in Greek folklore. The fairies appear beside the cradle of the newborn child and bring gifts to him.\n\nTemple attendants may be considered representations of the Moirai, who belonged to the underworld, but secretly guided the lives of those in the upperworld. Their power could be sustained by witchcraft and oracles. In Greek mythology the Moirai at birth are accompanied by Eileithyia. At the birth of Hercules they use together a magic art, to free the newborn from any \"bonds\" and \"knots\".\n\nMuch of the Mycenean religion survived into classical Greece, but it is not known to what extent Greek religious belief is Mycenean, nor how much is a product of the Greek Dark Ages or later. M.Finley detected only few authentic Mycenean beliefs in the 8th-century Homeric world. The religion which later the Greeks considered Hellenic embodies a paradox. Though the world is dominated by a divine power bestowed in different ways on men, nothing but \"darkness\" lay ahead. Life was frail and unsubstantial, and man was like \"a shadow in a dream\".\n\nIn the Homeric poems the words \"moira\", \"aisa\", \"moros\" mean \"portion, part\". Originally they did not indicate a power which led destiny, and must be considered to include the \"ascertainment\" or \"proof\". By extension \"Moira\" is the portion in glory, happiness, mishappenings, death (μοίρα θανάτοιο: destiny of death) which are unexpected events. The unexpected events were usually attributed to daemons, who appeared in special occurrences. In that regard \"Moira\" was later considered an agent, like the daemon of Pre-Greek religion.\n\nPeople believed that their portion in destiny was something similar with their portion in booty, which was distributed according to their descent, and traditional rules. It was possible to get more than their ordained portion (moira), but they had to face severe consequences because their action was \"over moira\" (υπέρ μοίραν:over the portion). It may be considered that they \"broke the order\". The most certain order in human lives is that every human should die, and this was determined by \"Aisa\" or \"Moira\" at the moment of birth. The Myceneans believed that what comes should come (fatalism), and this was considered rightly offered (according to fate: in order). If someone died in battle, he would exist like a shadow in the gloomy space of the underworld.\n\nThe kingdom of \"Moira\" is the kingdom of the limit and the end. In a passage in \"Iliad\", Apollo tries three times to stop Patroclus in front of the walls of Troy, warning him that it is \"over his portion\" to sack the city. Aisa (moira) seems to set a limit on the most vigorous men's actions.\n\nMoira is a power acting in parallel with the gods, and even they could not change the destiny which was predetermined. In the Iliad, Zeus knows that his dearest Sarpedon will be killed by Patroclus, but he cannot save him. In the famous scene of Kerostasia, Zeus the chief-deity of the Myceneans appears as the guider of destiny. Using a pair of scales he decides that Hector must die, according to his \"aisa\" (destiny). His decision seems to be independent from his will, and is not related with any \"moral purpose\". His attitude is explained by Achilleus to Priam, in a parable of two jars at the door of Zeus, one of which contains good things, and the other evil. Zeus gives a mixture to some men, to others only evil and such are driven by hunger over the earth. This was the old \"heroic outlook\".\n\nThe personification of \"Moira\" appears in the newer parts of the epos. In \"Odyssey\", she is accompanied by the \"Spinners\", the personifications of Fate, who do not have separate names. Moira seems to spin the predetermined course of events. Agamemnon claims that \nhe is not responsible for his arrogance. He took the prize of Achilleus, because Zeus and Moira predetermined his decision. In the last section of \"Iliad\", \"Moira\" is the \"mighty fate\" (μοίρα κραταιά:moira krataia) who leads destiny and the course of events. Thetis the mother of Achilleus warns him that he will not live long because mighty fate stands hard by him, therefore he must give to Priam the corpse of Hector. At Hector’s birth mighty fate predetermined that his corpse would be devoured by dogs after his death, and Hecabe is crying desperately asking for revenge.\n\nThe three Moirai are daughters of the primeval goddess Nyx (Night), and sisters of Keres (black Fates), Thanatos (Death) and Nemesis (retribution). Later they are daughters of Zeus and the Titaness Themis (the \"Institutor\"), who was the embodiment of divine order and law. and sisters of Eunomia (lawfulness, order), Dike (Justice), and Eirene (Peace)\n\nHesiod introduces a moral purpose which is absent in the Homeric poems. The Moirai represent a power to which even the gods have to conform. They give men at birth both evil and good moments, and they punish not only men but also gods for their sins.\n\nIn the cosmogony of Alcman (7th century BC), first came Thetis (Disposer, Creation), and then simultaneously Poros (path) and Tekmor (end post, ordinance).\nPoros is related with the beginning of all things, and Tekmor is related with the end of all things.\n\nLater in the Orphic cosmogony, first came Thesis (Disposer), whose ineffable nature is unexpressed. Ananke (necessity) is the primeval goddess of inevitability who is entwined with the time-god Chronos, at the very beginning of time. They represented the cosmic forces of Fate and Time, and they were called sometimes to control the fates of the gods. The three Moirai are daughters of Ananke.\n\nThe Moirai were supposed to appear three nights after a child's birth to determine the course of its life, as in the story of Meleager and the firebrand taken from the hearth and preserved by his mother to extend his life. Bruce Karl Braswell from readings in the lexicon of Hesychius, associates the appearance of the Moirai at the family \"hearth\" on the \"seventh\" day with the ancient Greek custom of waiting seven days after birth to decide whether to accept the infant into the Gens and to give it a name, cemented with a ritual at the hearth. At Sparta the temple to the Moirai stood near the communal hearth of the \"polis\", as Pausanias observed.\n\nAs goddesses of birth who even prophesied the fate of the newly born, Eileithyia, the ancient Minoan goddess of childbirth and divine midwifery, was their companion. Pausanias mentions an ancient role of Eileythia as \"the clever spinner\", relating her with destiny too. Their appearance indicate the Greek desire for health which was connected with the Greek cult of the body that was essentially a religious activity.\n\nThe Moirai assigned to the terrible chthonic goddesses Erinyes who inflicted the punishment for evil deeds their proper functions, and with them directed fate according to necessity. As goddesses of death they appeared together with the daemons of death Keres and the infernal Erinyes.\nIn earlier times they were represented as only a few—perhaps only one—individual goddess. Homer's \"Iliad\" (xxiv.209) speaks generally of the Moira, who spins the thread of life for men at their birth; she is \"Moira Krataia\" \"powerful Moira\" (xvi.334) or there are several Moirai (xxiv.49). In the \"Odyssey\" (vii.197) there is a reference to the \"Klôthes\", or Spinners. At Delphi, only the Fates of Birth and Death were revered. In Athens, Aphrodite, who had an earlier, pre-Olympic existence, was called \"Aphrodite Urania\" the \"eldest of the Fates\" according to Pausanias (x.24.4).\n\nSome Greek mythographers went so far as to claim that the Moirai were the daughters of Zeus—paired with Themis (\"Fundament\"), as Hesiod had it in one passage. In the older myths they are daughters of primeval beings like Nyx (\"Night\") in Theogony, or Ananke (\"Necessity\") in Orphic cosmogony. Whether or not providing a father even for the Moirai was a symptom of how far Greek mythographers were willing to go, in order to modify the old myths to suit the patrilineal Olympic order, the claim of a paternity was certainly not acceptable to Aeschylus, Herodotus, or Plato.\n\nDespite their forbidding reputation, the Moirai could be placated as goddesses. Brides in Athens offered them locks of hair, and women swore by them. They may have originated as birth goddesses and only later acquired their reputation as the agents of destiny.\n\nAccording to the mythographer Apollodorus, in the Gigantomachy, the war between the Giants and Olympians, the Moirai killed the Giants Agrios and Thoon with their bronze clubs.\n\nIn the Homeric poems Moira, who is almost always one, is acting independently from the gods. Only Zeus, the chief sky-deity of the Myceneans is close to Moira, and in a passage he is the being of this power. Using a weighing scale (balance) Zeus weighs Hector's \"lot of death\" (Ker) against the one of Achilleus. Hector's lot weighs down, and he dies according to Fate. Zeus appears as the guider of destiny, who gives everyone the right portion.\n\nIn a Mycenean vase, Zeus holds a weighing scale (balance) in front of two warriors, indicating that he is measuring their destiny before the battle. The belief (fatalism) was that if they die in battle, they must die, and this was rightly offered (according to fate).\n\nIn \"Theogony\", the three \"Moirai\" are daughters of the primeval goddess, Nyx (\"Night\"), representing a power acting over the gods. Later they are daughters of Zeus who gives them the greatest honour, and Themis, the ancient goddess of law and divine order.\nEven the gods feared the Moirai or Fates, which according to Herodotus a god could not escape. The Pythian priestess at Delphi once admitted, that Zeus was also subject to their power, though no classic writing clarifies as to what exact extent the lives of immortals were affected by the whims of the Fates. It is to be expected that the relationship of Zeus and the Moirai was not immutable over the centuries. In either case in antiquity we can see a feeling towards a notion of an order to which even the gods have to conform. Simonides names this power Ananke (necessity) (the mother of the \"Moirai\" in Orphic cosmogony) and says that even the gods don't fight against it. Aeschylus combines Fate and necessity in a scheme, and claims that even Zeus cannot alter which is ordained.\n\nA supposed epithet \"Zeus Moiragetes\", meaning \"Zeus Leader of the Moirai\" was inferred by Pausanias from an inscription he saw in the 2nd century AD at Olympia: \"As you go to the starting-point for the chariot-race there is an altar with an inscription \"to the Bringer of Fate.\" This is plainly a surname of Zeus, who knows the affairs of men, all that the Fates give them, and all that is not destined for them.\" At the Temple of Zeus at Megara, Pausanias inferred from the relief sculptures he saw \"Above the head of Zeus are the Horai and Moirai, and all may see that he is the only god obeyed by Moira.\" Pausanias' inferred assertion is unsupported in cult practice, though he noted a sanctuary of the Moirai there at Olympia (v.15.4), and also at Corinth (ii.4.7) and Sparta (iii.11.8), and adjoining the sanctuary of Themis outside a city gate of Thebes.\n\nThe fates had at least three known temples, in Ancient Corinth, Sparta and Thebes. At least the temple of Corinth contained statues of them: \nThe temple in Thebes was explicitly imageless: \nThe temple in Sparta was situated next to the grave of Orestes.\n\nAside from actual temples, there was also altars to the Moirai. Among them was notably the altar in Olympia near the altar of Zeus Moiragetes, a connection to Zeus which was also repeated in the images of the Moirai in the temple of Despoine in Arkadia as well as in Delphi, where they were depicted with Zeus Moiragetes (Guide of Fate) as well as with Apollon Moiragetes (Guide of Fate).\nOn Korkyra, the shrine of Apollo which was legendary founded by Medea was also a place on which offerings where made to the Moirai and the nymphs. \nThe worship of the Moirai are described by Pausanias for their altar near Sicyon: \n\nIn Roman mythology the three Moirai are the Parcae or Fata, plural of \"fatum\" meaning prophetic declaration, oracle, or destiny. The English words fate (native wyrd) and fairy (magic, enchantment), are both derived from \"fata\", \"fatum\" .\n\nIn Norse mythology the Norns are female beings who rule the destiny of gods and men, twining the thread of life. They set up the laws and decided on the lives of the children of men. Their names were Urðr, related with Wyrd, weird (fate), Verðandi, and Skuld, and it has often been inferred that they ruled over the past, present and future respectively, based on the sequence and partly the etymology of the names, of which the first two (literally 'Fate' and 'Becoming') are derived from the past and present stems of the verb \"verða\", \"to be\", respectively, and the name of the third one means 'Debt' or 'Guilt', originally 'That which must happen'.\n\nIn younger legendary sagas, the Norns appear to have been synonymous with witches (Völvas), and they arrive at the birth of the hero to shape his destiny. It seems that originally all of them were Disir, ghosts or deities associated with destruction and destiny. The notion that they were three may be due to a late influence from Greek and Roman mythology. The same applies to their (disputed) association with the past, present and future.\n\nThe Valkyries (choosers of the slain), were originally daemons of death. They were female figures who decided who will die in battle, and brought their chosen to the afterlife hall of the slain. They were also related with spinning, and one of them was named Skuld (debt, guilt). They may be related to Keres, the daemons of death in Greek mythology, who accompanied the dead to the entrance of Hades. In the scene of Kerostasie Keres are the \"lots of death\", and in some cases Ker (destruction) has the same meaning, with Moira interpreted as \"destiny of death\" (\"moira thanatoio\" :μοίρα θανάτοιο) .\n\nThe Celtic Matres and Matrones, female deities almost entirely in a group of three, have been proposed as connected to the Norns and the Valkyries.\nIn Anglo-Saxon culture Wyrd (Weird) is a concept corresponding to fate or personal destiny (literally: what befalls one). Its Norse cognate is Urðr, and both names are deriven from the PIE root \"wert\", \"to turn, wind\", related with \"spindle, distaff\". In Old English literature Wyrd goes ever as she shall, and remains wholly inevitable.\n\nIn Shakespeare's \"Macbeth\", the Weird sisters (or Three Witches), are prophetesses, who are deeply entrenched in both worlds of reality and supernatural. Their creation was influenced by British folklore, witchcraft, and the legends of the Norns and the Moirai. Hecate, the chthonic Greek goddess associated with magic, witchcraft, necromancy, and three-way crossroads, appears as the master of the \"Three witches\". In Ancient Greek religion, Hecate as goddess of childbirth is identified with Artemis, who was the leader (ηγεμόνη: \"hegemone\" ) of the nymphs.\n\nIn Lithuanian mythology Laima is the personification of destiny, and her most important duty was to prophecy how the life of a newborn will take place. She may be related to the Hindu goddess Laksmi, who was the personification of wealth and prosperity, and associated with good fortune. In Latvian mythology, Laima and her sisters were a trinity of fate deities.\n\nThe Moirai were usually described as cold, remorseless and unfeeling, and depicted as old crones or hags. The independent \"spinster\" has always inspired fear rather than matrimony: \"this sinister connotation we inherit from the spinning goddess,\" write Ruck and Staples (Ruck and Staples 1994:). See weaving (mythology).\n\nThe notion of a universal principle of natural order has been compared to similar ideas in other cultures, such as aša, (Asha) in Avestan religion, Rta in Vedic religion, and Maat in Ancient Egyptian religion.\n\nIn the Avestan religion and Zoroastrianism, aša, is commonly summarized in accord with its contextual implications of \"truth\", \"right(eousness)\", \"order\". Aša and its Vedic equivalent, Rta, are both derived from a PIE root meaning \"properly joined, right, true\". The word is the proper name of the divinity Asha, the personification of \"Truth\" and \"Righteousness\". \"Aša\" corresponds to an objective, material reality which embraces all of existence. This cosmic force is imbued also with morality, as verbal Truth, and Righteousness, action conforming with the moral order. In the literature of the Mandeans, an angelic being has the responsibility of weighing the souls of the deceased to determine their worthiness, using a set of scales.\n\nIn the Vedic religion, Rta is an ontological principle of natural order which regulates and coordinates the operation of the universe. The term is now interpreted abstractly as \"cosmic order\", or simply as \"truth\", although it was never abstract at the time. It seems that this idea originally arose in the Indo-Aryan period, from a con-sideration (so denoted to indicate the original meaning of communing with the star beings) of the qualities of nature which either remain constant or which occur on a regular basis.\n\nThe individuals fulfill their true natures when they follow the path set for them by the ordinances of \"Rta\", acting according to the Dharma, which is related to social and moral spheres. The god of the waters Varuna was probably originally conceived as the personalized aspect of the otherwise impersonal \"Ṛta\". The gods are never portrayed as having command over \"Ṛta\", but instead they remain subject to it like all created beings.\n\nIn Egyptian religion, maat was the ancient Egyptian concept of truth, balance, order, law, morality, and justice. The word is the proper name of the divinity Maat, who was the goddess of harmony, justice, and truth represented as a young woman. It was considered that she set the order of the universe from chaos at the moment of creation. Maat was the norm and basic values that formed the backdrop for the application of justice that had to be carried out in the spirit of truth and fairness.\n\nIn Egyptian mythology, Maat dealt with the weighing of souls that took place in the underworld. Her feather was the measure that determined whether the souls (considered to reside in the heart) of the departed would reach the paradise of afterlife successfully. In the famous scene of the Egyptian \"Book of the Dead\", Anubis, using a scale, weighs the sins of a man's heart against the feather of truth, which represents maat. If man's heart weighs down, then he is devoured by a monster.\n\nThe asteroids (97) Klotho, (120) Lachesis, and (273) Atropos are named for the Three Fates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28723624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28723624", "title": "Month of Photography Asia", "text": "Month of Photography Asia\n\nMonth of Photography Asia (also known as MOPA and MOPAsia) was an international festival of photography in Singapore from 2002 to 2011.\n\nThe festival promoted photography both as an art form and as a creative industry. Each year, Month of Photography Asia was curated along a specific theme and presented works by international and Singaporean photographers in relation to this.\n\nThe festival's main line-up of exhibitions was complemented by both public programmes, which included round tables, master classes, talks, portfolio reviews, screenings, tours and workshops.\n\nThe festival was first established in 2002 as the Month of Photography in Singapore, on a joint initiative by the Alliance Française de Singapour and the National Arts Council. It was inaugurated in the presence of Jean-Luc Monterosso, director of the European House of Photography, MEP). Phish Communications managed the 2003, 2004 and 2006 editions of the festival. In 2007, the festival took the name of Month of Photography Asia (MOPA or MOPAsia).\n\nFrom 2004 onwards, a curatorial theme provided the backbone of each edition of the festival:\n\nIn 2006, the festival started a series of group shows titled \"Out of Focus\" dedicated to emerging Singaporean or Singapore-based photographers who had not yet had a solo show. The first of these was curated by Tay Kay Chin. Objectifs: Centre for Photography and Filmmaking curated in 2007 to 2009.\n\nIn 2008, the festival initiated an artist residency programme in partnership with Lasalle College of the Arts, with the support of the French embassy. was the first photographer in residence in 2008, followed by Françoise Huguier in 2009.\n\nIn 2009, the festival added \"InsideOut\", a project that aimed to allow the audience to see Singapore through the eyes of migrant workers to foster mutual understanding. First launched in 2006 together with the M1 Singapore Fringe Festival, the project was revived in the 2009 edition of MOPAsia as \"InsideOut II\" and continued in 2010 as \"InsideOut III\".\n\nIn 2010, the festival included the newly created \"ICON de Martell Cordon Bleu\" photography award. Established by Martell Cordon Bleu together with the Month of Photography Asia, this juried prize was aimed at recognizing the most outstanding photographer in Singapore who had shown originality of vision, presented thought-provoking ideas, explored new concepts and demonstrated a commitment to his/her photography.\n\nIn 2010 the jury included Martin Parr and Agnès de Gouvion Saint-Cyr. Sherman Ong was the winner, awarded a cash prize of $30,000 and publication of a book of their work.\n\nIn 2011 the winner was Sean Lee.\n\n\n\nThe festival collaborated closely with the European House of Photography (Maison Européenne de la Photographie) in its first year, and subsequently developed partnerships with photo agencies Magnum Photos and Rapho, as well as with the Henri Cartier-Bresson Foundation and the National Foundation for Contemporary Art (Fonds national d'art contemporain (FNAC)) in Paris, and the George Eastman House in Rochester, New York.\n\nIt worked locally with the National Arts Council (Singapore) (NAC), the Singapore Arts Festival, the Lasalle College of the Arts, Objectifs: Centre for Photography and Filmmaking, Migrant Voices, as well as the Cathay Organisation (with its Cathay Gallery).\n\nIt partnered with high commissions and embassies, the United States of America Embassy, the British High Commission and the French Embassy in Singapore.\n"}
{"id": "31760214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31760214", "title": "Mother Savage", "text": "Mother Savage\n\n\"Mother Savage\" (original title: \"La Mère Sauvage\") is a short story by the French realist writer Guy de Maupassant. It was first published on 3 March 1884.\n\nTwo men are out hunting in the French countryside, the narrator and Serval. The latter tells the story of the Savage family: the father was killed by police with a gunshot to the head. Serval goes on to tell the story of Old Mother Savage and her son, who volunteered at age 33 to fight in the war. Mother Savage, isolated far from the village and \"known to have money\" is assigned to quarter four young Prussian soldiers. The men do chores around the house as if it were their own. Mother Savage continually asks the young men about the French 23rd Regiment of the Line, where her son is on the front, but the young Prussians know nothing.\n\nLater, the postman gives Mother Savage a letter from one of her son's comrades-in-arms which informs her of her son's death. The Prussians bring home a live rabbit for a meal, which Mother Savage has difficulty killing. As she finishes the preparation of the meal, she asks the young men for their names and home addresses. Mother Savage does not partake in the meal, and as they finish dinner, she insists on providing the young soldiers with hay to make their stay in the loft more comfortable. After the soldiers fall asleep, Mother Savage removes the ladder from the loft and starts a fire in the fireplace, which does not rage out of control until she stokes the fire with more hay. Mother Savage stands outside with her son's rifle to make sure the Prussians cannot escape. She hears their \"clamor of human screams\" and stands guard. Then when she is sure the Prussians are dead, she throws the rifle into the fire, and one loud shot goes off.\n\nThe other villagers and soldiers rush to her home, and a German officer interrogates Mother Savage. She informs him that the soldiers were in the fire and that she started the fire. She hands the officer the list of names and addresses she had gathered and is immediately pushed against her home and shot \"almost in two\", with the letter informing her of her son's death bloody in her hand.\n\nThe story is written from the perspective of the narrator, who retells the Mother Savage story as told by his friend Serval. Influenced by Gustave Flaubert, Guy de Maupassant writes in the realist style which focuses on objective reality and \"shows\" instead of \"tells\".\n\nThe story is set during the winter of 1871 midway through the Franco-Prussian War in a quaint village in the French countryside. Snow covers the fields, and the forest lurks ominously, void of life. The countryside is dotted with small cottages emitting smoke from chimneys.\n"}
{"id": "34201364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34201364", "title": "National Ethiopian Art Theatre, Inc.", "text": "National Ethiopian Art Theatre, Inc.\n\nNational Ethiopian Art Theatre, Inc., was an American thespian company devoted to training, showcasing, and employing black American actors during the Harlem Renaissance. The company was founded by Mrs. Anne Wolter on March 17, 1924, in New York City. The Ethiopian Art Theatre School was its educational arm.\n\nCorps of instructors\n"}
{"id": "34707013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34707013", "title": "Oleg Cassini, Inc.", "text": "Oleg Cassini, Inc.\n\nOleg Cassini, Inc. is an American fashion house founded by American fashion designer Oleg Cassini. The company is based in Oyster Bay Cove, New York, and was established in 1951.\n"}
{"id": "2973567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2973567", "title": "Omayra Sánchez", "text": "Omayra Sánchez\n\nOmayra Sánchez Garzón (August 28, 1972 – November 16, 1985) was a 13-year-old Colombian girl killed in Armero, Tolima, by the 1985 eruption of the Nevado del Ruiz volcano. Volcanic debris mixed with ice to form massive lahars (volcanically induced mudflows, landslides, and debris flows) that rushed into the river valleys below the mountain, killing nearly 23,000 people and destroying Armero and 13 other villages.\n\nAfter a lahar demolished her home, Sánchez was pinned beneath the debris of her house, where she remained trapped in water for three days. Her plight was documented as she descended from calmness into agony. Her courage and dignity touched journalists and relief workers, who put great efforts into comforting her. After 60 hours of struggling, she died, likely as a result of either gangrene or hypothermia. Her death highlighted the failure of officials to respond correctly to the threat of the volcano, contrasted with the efforts of volunteer rescue workers to reach and treat trapped victims, despite inadequate supplies and equipment.\n\nA photograph of Sánchez taken by the photojournalist Frank Fournier shortly before she died was published in news outlets around the world. It was later designated the World Press Photo of the Year for 1985. Sánchez has remained a lasting figure in popular culture, remembered through music, literature, and commemorative articles.\n\nOn November 13, 1985, the Nevado del Ruiz volcano erupted. At 9:09 pm of that night, pyroclastic flows exploding from the crater melted the mountain's icecap, forming lahars (volcanic mudflows and debris flows) which cascaded into river valleys below. One lahar, consisting of three pulses, did most of the damage. Traveling at per second, the first pulse enveloped most of the town of Armero, killing up to 20,000 people; the two later pulses weakened buildings. Another lahar killed 1,800 people in nearby Chinchiná. In total 23,000 people were killed and 13 villages in addition to Armero were destroyed.\n\nLoss of life was exacerbated by the authorities' failure to take costly preventive measures in the absence of clear signs of imminent danger. There had been no substantial eruption of the volcano since 1845, which contributed to complacency; locals called the volcano the \"Sleeping Lion\".\n\nIn September 1985, as earthquakes and phreatic eruptions rocked the area around the volcano, officials began planning for evacuation. A hazard map was prepared in October; it highlighted the danger from falling ash and rock near Murillo, Santa Isabel, and Líbano, as well as the threat of lahars in Mariquita, Guayabal, Chinchiná, and Armero. The map was poorly distributed to those at highest risk: many survivors had never heard of it, though several major newspapers had featured it. Henry Villegas of the Colombian Institute of Mining and Geology stated that the maps clearly demonstrated Armero would be affected by the lahars, but had \"met with strong opposition from economic interests.\" He said that the short time between the map's preparation and the eruption hindered timely distribution.\n\nThe Colombian Congress criticised scientific and civil defense agencies for scaremongering, and the government and army were preoccupied with the guerrilla campaign in Bogotá, the national capital, which was then at its height.\n\nThe death toll was increased by the lack of early warnings, unwise land use, as villages were built in the likely path of lahars, and the lack of preparedness in communities near the volcano. Colombia's worst natural disaster, the Armero tragedy (as it came to be known) was the second-deadliest volcanic disaster of the 20th century (surpassed only by the 1902 eruption of Mount Pelée). It was the fourth-deadliest eruption recorded since 1500 AD. Its lahars were the deadliest in volcanic history.\n\nOmayra Sánchez lived in the neighborhood of Santander with her parents Álvaro Enrique, a rice and sorghum collector, and María Aleida, along with her brother Álvaro Enrique and aunt María Adela Garzón. Prior to the eruption, her mother had traveled to Bogotá on business. The night of the disaster, Omayra and her family were awake, worrying about the ashfall from the eruption, when they heard the sound of an approaching lahar. After it hit, Omayra became trapped under her home's concrete and other debris and could not free herself. When rescue teams tried to help her, they realized that her legs were trapped under her house's roof. Sources differ as to the degree to which Sánchez was trapped. Zeiderman (2009) said she was \"trapped up to her neck\", while Barragán (1987) said that she was trapped up to her waist.\n\nFor the first few hours after the mudflow hit, she was covered by concrete but got her hand through a crack in the debris. After a rescuer noticed her hand protruding from a pile of debris, he and others cleared tiles and wood over the course of a day. Once the girl was freed from the waist up, her rescuers attempted to pull her out, but found the task impossible without breaking her legs in the process. Each time a person pulled her, the water pooled around her, rising so that it seemed she would drown if they let her go, so rescue workers placed a tire around her body to keep her afloat. Divers discovered that Sánchez's legs were caught under a door made of bricks, with her aunt's arms clutched tightly around her legs and feet.\n\nDespite her predicament, Sánchez remained relatively positive: she sang to Germán Santa María Barragán, a journalist who was working as a volunteer, asked for sweet food, drank soda, and agreed to be interviewed. At times, she was scared, and prayed or cried. On the third night, Sánchez began hallucinating, saying that she did not want to be late for school, and mentioned a maths exam. Near the end of her life, Sánchez's eyes reddened, her face swelled, and her hands whitened. At one point she asked the people to leave her so they could rest. Hours later the workers returned with a pump and tried to save her, but her legs were bent under the concrete as if she was kneeling, and it was impossible to free her without severing her legs. Lacking the surgical equipment to save her from the effects of an amputation, the doctors present agreed that it would be more humane to let her die. In all, Sánchez suffered for nearly three nights (roughly 60 hours) before she died at approximately 10:05 A.M. on November 16 from exposure, most likely from gangrene or hypothermia.\n\nHer brother survived the lahars; her father and aunt died. Her mother expressed her feelings about Omayra's death: \"It is horrible, but we have to think about the living ... I will live for my son, who only lost a finger.\"\n\nAs the public became aware of Sánchez's situation through the media, her death became a symbol of the failure of officials to properly assist victims who could have been saved. Controversy broke out after descriptions of the shortages were released in newspapers, disproving what officials had previously indicated: that they had used the best of their supplies. Volunteer relief workers said that there was such a lack of resources that supplies as basic as shovels, cutting tools, and stretchers ran out. The rescue process was impeded by large crowds and disorganization. An unnamed police officer said that the government should have depended on human resources to alleviate the problems and that the system of rescue was disorganized. Colombia's Minister of Defense, Miguel Uribe, said he \"understood criticism of the rescue effort\", but said that Colombia was \"an undeveloped country\" that did not \"have that kind of equipment.\"\n\nFrank Fournier, a French reporter who landed in Bogotá on November 15, took a photograph of Sánchez in her final days, titled \"The Agony of Omayra Sánchez\". When he reached Armero at dawn on the 16th, a farmer directed him to Sánchez, who by then had been trapped for nearly three days and was near-deserted. Fournier later described the town as \"very haunting,\" with \"eerie silence\" punctuated by screaming. He said that he took the photograph feeling that he could only \"report properly on the courage and the suffering and the dignity of the little girl\" in his attempt to publicize the disaster's need for relief efforts, feeling otherwise \"powerless\".\n\nAt the time, there was international awareness of the disaster. Sánchez was one of the victims at the center of the associated controversy over responsibility for the destructive aftermath. The image captured international attention. According to an unnamed BBC reporter, \"Many were appalled at witnessing so intimately what transpired to be the last few hours of Omayra's life.\" After the photo was published in \"Paris Match,\" many accused Fournier of being \"a vulture.\" He responded, \n\"I felt the story was important for me to report and I was happier that there was some reaction; it would have been worse if people had not cared about it. ... I believe the photo helped raise money from around the world in aid and helped highlight the irresponsibility and lack of courage of the country's leaders.\" The picture later won the World Press Photo of the Year for 1985.\n\nThe Armero catastrophe came shortly after the M-19 guerrilla group's raid and subsequent Palace of Justice siege on November 6, worsening an already chaotic situation. After Sánchez's death, blame for it and for the Armero tragedy fell on the Colombian government for its inaction and general indifference to warning signs prior to the volcano's eruption.\n\nThe Nevado del Ruiz volcano is still active, according to the Volcano Watch Center in Colombia. Melting only 10 percent of the ice would produce mudflows with a volume of up to —similar to the mudflow that destroyed Armero in 1985. Such lahars can travel up to along river valleys in a few hours. Estimates show that up to 500,000 people living in the Combeima, Chinchiná, Coello-Toche, and Guali valleys are at risk, and 100,000 of these are considered to be at high risk. The city of Armero no longer exists. The site was commemorated as a memorial with Christian crosses and a small monument to Sánchez.\n\nIn the years following the eruption, Sánchez has been repeatedly commemorated, especially in newspapers like \"El Tiempo\". Many victims of the disaster were commemorated, but Sánchez in particular has attracted lasting attention in popular poetry, novels, and music.\n\nFor example, a punk rock band formed in Chile in 2008 named themselves Omayra Sánchez; they express their \"discontent that they feel with the negligence on the part of the people who in this day and age run the world\". \"Adiós, Omayra: La catástrofe de Armero\" (1988), written by Eduardo Santa as a response to the eruption, depicts the girl's last days of life in detail and cites her in its introduction as an eternal symbol of the catastrophe. In \"No Morirás\" (1994), Germán Santa María Barragán writes that of all the horrors he saw at Armero, nothing was more painful than seeing the face of Omayra Sánchez under the ruins of her house. Isabel Allende's short story, \"And of Clay Are We Created\" (\"De barro estamos hechos\"), is told from the perspective of a reporter who tries to help a girl trapped under the fireplace of her ruined home. Allende later wrote, \"Her [Sánchez's] big black eyes, filled with resignation and wisdom, still pursue me in my dreams. Writing the story failed to exorcise her ghost.\"\n\nTo try to prevent repetition of such a disaster, the government of Colombia created the \"Oficina Nacional para la Atención de Desastres\" (National Office for Disaster Preparedness), now known as the \"Dirección de Prevención y Atención de Desastres\" (Directorate for Disaster Prevention and Preparedness). All Colombian cities were directed to plan for natural disasters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101713", "title": "Pantomime", "text": "Pantomime\n\nPantomime (; informally panto) is a type of musical comedy stage production designed for family entertainment. It was developed in England and is still performed throughout the United Kingdom and (to a lesser extent) in other English-speaking countries, especially during the Christmas and New Year season. Modern pantomime includes songs, gags, slapstick comedy and dancing. It employs gender-crossing actors and combines topical humour with a story more or less based on a well-known fairy tale, fable or folk tale. It is a participatory form of theatre, in which the audience is expected to sing along with certain parts of the music and shout out phrases to the performers.\n\nPantomime has a long theatrical history in Western culture dating back to classical theatre. It developed partly from the 16th century commedia dell'arte tradition of Italy and other European and British stage traditions, such as 17th-century masques and music hall. An important part of the pantomime, until the late 19th century, was the harlequinade.\n\nOutside Britain, the word \"pantomime\" is often understood to mean miming, rather than the theatrical form discussed here.\n\nThe word pantomime was adopted from the Latin word \"pantomimus\", which in turn derives from the Greek word \"παντόμιμος\" (\"pantomimos\"), consisting of \"παντο-\" (\"panto-\") meaning \"all\", and \"μῖμος\" (\"mimos\"), meaning a dancer who acted all the roles or all the story. The Roman pantomime drew upon the Greek tragedy and other Greek genres from its inception, although the art was instituted in Rome and little is known of it in pre-Roman Greece. The English word came to be applied to the performance itself. According to a lost oration by Aelius Aristides, the pantomime was known for its erotic content and the effeminacy of its dancing; Aristides's work was responded to by Libanius, in his oration \"On Behalf of the Dancers\", written probably around 361 AD.\n\nRoman pantomime was a production, usually based upon myth or legend, for a solo male dancer—clad in a long silk tunic and a short mantle (\"pallium\") that was often used as a \"prop\"—accompanied by a sung \"libretto\" (called the \"fabula saltica\" or \"dance-story\") rendered by a singer or chorus (though Lucian states that originally the pantomime himself was the singer). Music was supplied by flute and the pulse of an iron-shod shoe called a scabellum. Performances might be in a private household, with minimal personnel, or else lavish theatrical productions involving a large orchestra and chorus and sometimes an ancillary actor. The dancer danced all the roles, relying on masks, stock poses and gestures and a hand-language (cheironomy) so complex and expressive that the pantomime's hands were commonly compared to an eloquent mouth. Pantomime differed from mime by its more artistic nature and relative lack of farce and coarse humour, though these were not absent from some productions.\n\nRoman pantomime was immensely popular from the end of the first century BC until the end of the sixth century AD, a form of entertainment that spread throughout the empire where, because of its wordless nature, it did more than any other art to foster knowledge of the myths and Roman legends that formed its subject-matter – tales such as those of the love of Venus and Mars and of Dido and Aeneas – while in Italy its chief exponents were celebrities, often the protegés of influential citizens, whose followers wore badges proclaiming their allegiance and engaged in street-fights with rival groups, while its accompanying songs became widely known. Yet, because of the limits imposed upon Roman citizens' dance, the populism of its song-texts and other factors, the art was as much despised as adored, and its practitioners were usually slaves or freedmen.\n\nBecause of the low status and the disappearance of its \"libretti\", the Roman pantomime received little modern scholarly attention until the late 20th century, despite its great influence upon Roman culture as perceived in Roman art, in statues of famous dancers, graffiti, objects and literature. After the renaissance of classical culture, Roman pantomime was a decisive influence upon modern European concert dance, helping to transform ballet from a mere entertainment, a display of technical virtuosity, into the dramatic ballet d'action. It became an antecedent which, through writers and ballet-masters of the 17th and 18th centuries such as Claude-François Ménestrier (1631–1705), John Weaver (1673–1760), Jean-Georges Noverre (1727–1810) and Gasparo Angiolini (1731–1803), earned it respectability and attested to the capability of dance to render complex stories and express human emotion.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the Mummers Play was a traditional English folk play, based loosely on the Saint George and the Dragon legend, usually performed during Christmas gatherings, which contained the origin of many of the archetypal elements of the pantomime, such as stage fights, coarse humour and fantastic creatures, gender role reversal, and good defeating evil. Precursors of pantomime also included the masque, which grew in pomp and spectacle from the 15th to the 17th centuries.\n\nThe development of English pantomime was also strongly influenced by the continental \"commedia dell'arte\", a form of popular theatre that arose in Italy in the Early Modern Period. This was a \"comedy of professional artists\" travelling from province to province in Italy and then France, who improvised and told comic stories that held lessons for the crowd, changing the main character depending on where they were performing. Each \"scenario\" used some of the same stock characters. These included the \"innamorati\" (young lovers); the \"vecchi\" (old men) such as Pantalone; and \"zanni\" (servants) such as Arlecchino, Colombina, Scaramouche and Pierrot. Italian masque performances in the 17th century sometimes included the Harlequin character.\n\nIn the 17th century, adaptations of the commedia characters became familiar in English entertainments. From these, the standard English harlequinade developed, depicting the eloping lovers Harlequin and Columbine, pursued by the girl's father Pantaloon and his comic servants Clown and Pierrot. In English versions, by the 18th century, Harlequin became the central figure and romantic lead. The basic plot of the harlequinade remained essentially the same for more than 150 years, except that a bumbling policeman was added to the chase.\n\nIn the first two decades of the 18th century, two rival London theatres, Lincoln's Inn Fields Theatre and the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane (the patent theatres) presented productions that began seriously with classical stories that contained elements of opera and ballet and ended with a comic \"night scene\". \"Tavern Bilkers\", by John Weaver, the dancing master at Drury Lane, is cited as the first pantomime produced on the English stage. This production was not a success, and Weaver waited until 1716 to produce his next pantomimes, including \"The Loves of Mars and Venus – a new Entertainment in Dancing after the manner of the Antient Pantomimes\". The same year he produced a pantomime on the subject of \"Perseus and Andromeda\". After this, pantomime was regular feature at Drury Lane. In 1717 at Lincoln's Inn, actor and manager John Rich introduced Harlequin into the theatres' pantomimes under the name of \"Lun\" (for \"lunatic\"). He gained great popularity for his pantomimes, especially beginning with his 1724 production of \"The Necromancer; or, History of Dr. Faustus\".\n\nThese early pantomimes were silent, or \"dumb show\", performances consisting of only dancing and gestures. Spoken drama was allowed in London only in the two (later three) patent theatres until Parliament changed this restriction in 1843. A large number of French performers played in London following the suppression of unlicensed theatres in Paris. Although this constraint was only temporary, English pantomimes remained primarily visual for some decades before dialogue was introduced. An 18th-century author wrote of David Garrick: \"He formed a kind of harlequinade, very different from that which is seen at the Opéra-Comique in Paris, where harlequin and all the characters speak.\" The majority of these early pantomimes were re-tellings of a story from ancient Greek or Roman literature, with a break between the two acts during which the harlequinade's zany comic business was performed. The theatre historian David Mayer explains the use of the \"batte\" or slapstick and the transformation scene that led to the harlequinade:\n\nPantomime gradually became more topical and comic, often involving spectacular and elaborate theatrical effects as far as possible. Colley Cibber, David Garrick and others competed with Rich and produced their own pantomimes, and pantomime continued to grow in popularity.\n\nBy the early 1800s, the pantomime's classical stories were often supplanted by stories adapted from European fairy tales, fables, folk tales, classic English literature or nursery rhymes. Also, the harlequinade grew in importance until it often was the longest and most important part of the entertainment. Pantomimes usually had dual titles that gave an often humorous idea of both the pantomime story and the harlequinade. \"Harlequin and ________\", or \"Harlequin _______; or, the ________\". In the second case, harlequin was used as an adjective, followed by words that described the pantomime \"opening\", for example: \"Harlequin Cock Robin and Jenny Wren; or, Fortunatus and the Water of Life, the Three Bears, the Three Gifts, the Three Wishes, and the Little Man who Woo'd the Little Maid\". Harlequin was the first word (or the first word after the \"or\") because Harlequin was initially the most important character. The titles continued to include the word Harlequin even after the first decade of the 1800s, when Joseph Grimaldi came to dominate London pantomime and made the character, Clown, a colourful agent of chaos, as important in the entertainment as Harlequin. At the same time, Harlequin began to be portrayed in a more romantic and stylised way.\n\nGrimaldi's performances elevated the role by \"acute observation upon the foibles and absurdities of society, and his happy talent of holding them up to ridicule. He is the finest practical satyrist that ever existed. ... He was so extravagantly natural, that the most saturnine looker-on acknowledged his sway; and neither the wise, the proud, or the fair, the young nor the old, were ashamed to laugh till tears coursed down their cheeks at Joe and his comicalities.\" Grimaldi's performances were important in expanding the importance of the harlequinade until it dominated the pantomime entertainment.\n\nBy the 1800s, therefore, children went to the theatre around the Christmas and New Year holiday (and often at Easter or other times) primarily to witness the craziness of the harlequinade chase scene. It was the most exciting part of the \"panto\", because it was fast-paced and included spectacular scenic magic as well as slapstick comedy, dancing and acrobatics. The presence of slapstick in this part of the show evolved from the characters found in Italian commedia dell'arte. The plot of the harlequinade was relatively simple; the star-crossed lovers, Harlequin and Columbine, run away from Columbine's foolish father, Pantaloon, who is being slowed down in his pursuit of them by his servant, Clown, and by a bumbling policeman. After the time of Grimaldi, Clown became the principal schemer trying to thwart the lovers, and Pantaloon was merely his assistant.\n\nThe opening \"fairy story\" was often blended with a story about a love triangle: a \"cross-grained\" old father who owns a business and whose pretty daughter is pursued by two suitors. The one she loves is poor but worthy, while the father prefers the other, a wealthy fop. Another character is a servant in the father's establishment. Just as the daughter is to be forcibly wed to the fop, or just as she was about to elope with her lover, the good fairy arrives. This was followed by what was often the most spectacular part of the production, the magical transformation scene. In early pantomimes, Harlequin possessed magical powers that he used to help himself and his love interest escape. He would tap his wooden sword (a derivative of the Commedia dell'arte slapstick or \"batte\") on the floor or scenery to make a grand transition of the world around him take place. The scene would switch from being inside some house or castle to, generally speaking, the streets of the town with storefronts as the backdrop. The transformation sequence was presided over by a Fairy Queen or Fairy Godmother character. The good fairy magically transformed the leads from the opening fairy story into their new identities as the harlequinade characters. Following is an example of the speech that the fairy would give during this transformation:\n\n<poem>Lovers stand forth. With you we shall begin.\nYou will be fair Columbineyou Harlequin.\nKing Jamie there, the bonnie Scottish loon,\nWill be a famous cheild for Pantaloon.\nThough Guy Fawkes now is saved from rocks and axe,\nI think he should pay the powder-tax.\nHis guyish plots blown upnay, do not frown;\nYou've always been a guynow be a Clown.</poem>\nThis passage is from a pantomime adaptation of the Guy Fawkes story. The fairy creates the characters of the harlequinade in the most typical fashion of simply telling the characters what they will change into. The principal male and female characters from the beginning plotline, often both played by young women, became the lovers Columbine and Harlequin, the mother or father of Columbine became Pantaloon, and the servant or other comic character became Clown. They would transition into the new characters as the scenery around them changed and would proceed in the \"zany fun\" section of the performance. From the time of Grimaldi, Clown would see the transformed setting and cry: \"Here We Are Again!\" The harlequinade began with various chase scenes, in which Harlequin and Columbine manage to escape from the clutches of Clown and Pantaloon, despite the acrobatic leaps of the former through windows, atop ladders, often because of well-meaning but misguided actions of the policeman. Eventually, there was a \"dark scene\", such as a cave or forest, in which the lovers were caught, and Harlequin's magic wand was seized from his grasp by Clown, who would flourish it in triumph. The good fairy would then reappear, and once the father agreed to the marriage of the young lovers, she would transport the whole company to a grand final scene.\n\nDespite its visible decline by 1836, the pantomime still fought to stay alive. After 1843, when theatres other than the original patent theatres were permitted to perform spoken dialogue, the importance of the silent harlequinade began to decrease, while the importance of the fairy-tale part of the pantomime increased. Two writers who helped to elevate the importance and popularity of the fairy-tale portion of the pantomime were James Planché and Henry James Byron. They emphasized puns and humorous word play, a tradition that continues in pantomime today. As manager of Drury Lane in the 1870s, Augustus Harris wrote a series of extraordinarily popular pantomimes, focusing on the spectacle of the productions, that pushed this transition by emphasizing comic business in the pantomime opening and grand processionals. By the end of the 19th century, the harlequinade had become merely a brief epilogue to the pantomime, dwindling into a brief display of dancing and acrobatics. It lingered for a few decades longer but finally disappeared, although a few of its comic elements had been incorporated into the pantomime stories. The last harlequinade was played at the Lyceum Theatre in 1939.\n\nTraditionally performed at Christmas and afterwards, with family audiences, British pantomime continues as a popular form of theatre, incorporating song, dance, buffoonery, slapstick, cross-dressing, in-jokes, topical references, audience participation, and mild sexual innuendo.\n\nPantomime story lines and scripts usually make no direct reference to Christmas, and are almost always based on traditional children's stories, particularly the fairy tales of Charles Perrault, Joseph Jacobs, Hans Christian Andersen and the Grimm Brothers. Some of the most popular pantomime stories include \"Cinderella\", \"Aladdin\", \"Dick Whittington and His Cat\" and \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\", as well as \"Jack and the Beanstalk\", \"Peter Pan\", \"Puss in Boots\" and \"Sleeping Beauty\". Other traditional stories include \"Mother Goose\", \"Beauty and the Beast\", \"Robinson Crusoe\", \"The Wizard of Oz\", \"Babes in the Wood\" (combined with elements of \"Robin Hood\"), \"Little Red Riding Hood\", \"Goldilocks and the Three Bears\", \"Sinbad\", \"St. George and the Dragon\", \"Bluebeard\", \"The Little Mermaid\" and \"Thumbelina\". Prior to about 1870, many other stories were made into pantomimes.\n\nWhile the familiarity of the audience with the original children's story is generally assumed, plot lines are almost always adapted for comic or satirical effect, and characters and situations from other stories are often interpolated into the plot. For instance \"panto\" versions of \"Aladdin\" may include elements from \"Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves\" or other \"Arabian Nights\" tales; while \"Jack and the Beanstalk\" might include references to nursery rhymes and other children's stories involving characters called \"Jack\", such as \"Jack and Jill\". Certain familiar scenes tend to recur, regardless of plot relevance, and highly unlikely resolution of the plot is common. Straight retellings of the original stories are rare.\n\nThe form has a number of conventions, some of which have changed or weakened a little over the years, and by no means all of which are obligatory. Some of these conventions were once common to other genres of popular theatre such as melodrama.\n\nAnother contemporary pantomime tradition is the celebrity guest star, a practice that dates back to the late 19th century, when Augustus Harris, proprietor of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, hired well-known variety artists for his pantomimes.\n\nMany modern pantomimes use popular artists to promote the pantomime, and the play is often adapted to allow the star to showcase their well-known act, even when such a spot has little relation to the plot. As critic Michael Billington has explained, if the star enters into the spirit of the entertainment, he or she can add to its overall effect, while if it becomes a \"showcase for a star\" who \"stands outside the action\", the celebrity's presence can detract, notwithstanding the marketing advantage that the star brings to the piece. Billington said that Ian McKellen in a 2004 \"Aladdin\" \"lets down his hair and lifts up his skirt to reveal a nifty pair of legs and an appetite for \"double entendre\": when told by decorators that 'your front porch could do with a good lick', McKellen adopts a suitable look of mock-outrage. ... At least we can tell our grandchildren that we saw McKellen's Twankey and it was huge.\"\n\nThe main roles within pantomime are usually as follows:\n\nPantomime is performed in the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Bermuda, Australasia, Canada, Zimbabwe, Jamaica, South Africa, India, Gibraltar, and Malta, mostly during the Christmas and New Year season.\n\nMany theatres in cities and towns throughout the United Kingdom and Ireland continue to have an annual professional pantomime. Pantomime is also very popular with amateur dramatics societies throughout the UK and Ireland, and the pantomime season (roughly speaking, late November to February) will see pantomime productions in many village halls and similar venues across the country.\n\nPantomimes in Australia at Christmas were once very popular, but the genre has declined greatly since the middle of the 20th century. Several later professional productions did not recover their costs.\n\nChristmas pantomimes are performed yearly at the Hudson Village Theatre in Quebec. Since 1996, Ross Petty Productions has staged pantomimes at Toronto's Elgin Theatre each Christmas season. Pantomimes imported from England were produced at the Royal Alexandra Theatre in the 1980s. The White Rock Players Club in White Rock, BC have presented an annual pantomime in the Christmas season since 1954. The Royal Canadian Theatre Company produces pantomimes in British Columbia, written by Ellie King.\n\nPantomime was imported for a British expatriate audience and later adapted by Maltese producers for Maltese audiences. While in many former territories of the British empire, pantomime declined in popularity after independence, as it was seen as a symbol of colonial rule, studies have shown that this genre remains strong in Malta.\n\nThe National Pantomime of Jamaica was started in 1941 by educators Henry Fowler and Greta Fowler, pioneers of the Little Theatre Movement in Jamaica. Among the first players was Louise Bennett-Coverley. Other notable players have included Oliver Samuels, Charles Hyatt, Willard White, Rita Marley and Dawn Penn. The annual pantomime opens on Boxing Day at the Little Theatre in Kingston and is strongly influenced by aspects of Jamaican culture, folklore and history.\n\nPantomime has seldom been performed in the United States, although a few productions have been mounted in recent years. As a consequence, Americans commonly understand the word \"pantomime\" to refer to the art of mime as it was practised, for example, by Marcel Marceau and Nola Rae. However, certain shows that came from the pantomime traditions, especially \"Peter Pan\", are performed quite often, and a few American theatre companies produce traditional British-style pantomime as well as American adaptations of the form.\n\nAccording to Professor Russell A. Peck of the University of Rochester, the earliest pantomime productions in the US were \"Cinderella\" pantomime productions in New York in March 1808, New York again in August 1808, Philadelphia in 1824, and Baltimore in 1839. A production at Olympic Theatre in New York of \"Humpty Dumpty\" ran for at least 943 performances between 1868 and 1873, (one source says 1,200 performances), becoming the longest-running pantomime in history.\n\nIn 1993 there was a production of \"Cinderella\" at the UCLA Freud Theatre, starring Zsa Zsa Gabor. Stages Repertory Theatre in Houston, Texas, has been performing original pantomime-style musicals during the Christmas holidays since 2008. Lythgoe Family Productions has produced pantomimes each winter since 2010 in California.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12149529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12149529", "title": "Press support", "text": "Press support\n\nPress support is a government subsidy available for newspapers in some countries. The support can either be direct, in terms of money to the newspaper, or indirect, such as lowered or eliminated sales tax. The justification for press support is typically to maintain some level of diversity in the media market.\n\nPress support is a Norwegian state subsidy available for newspapers. The subsidy is twofold; the first part is a direct subsidy of the second- largest, by circulation, newspapers in each city. The other subsidy is that newspaper are subject to no sales tax (as are books).\nThe direct subsidy is managed by the Norwegian Media Authority, and was NOK 303 million in 2006, paid to 138 newspapers. It was introduced in 1965, because of the fear of a massive newspaper death like Sweden and Denmark had seen, mainly the second largest newspapers in each city. Also, at the time, most newspapers were not political neutral, with many papers being controlled by either conservative forces, the labour movement or political parties. Support is given to all newspapers that are do not have the largest circulation in the city of publishing. There are limitations on the newspapers who can receive support, including that the support will cease if they pay a dividend to their owners. Other support is given to media research, follow-up studies, sami newspapers, immigrant publications and distribution support for Finnmark.\n\nThe press support has been partially successful, with a number of second-largest newspapers surviving, like \"Bergensavisen\" (Bergen), \"Rogalands Avis\" (Stavanger) and \"Dagsavisen\" (Oslo). Other secondary newspapers have been closed, like \"Trondheims-Pressen\". The largest receivers are often national newspapers, targeting special (often political) sectors, like \"Klassekampen\" (Socialist), \"Nationen\" (Agrarian) and \"Vårt Land\" (Christian). Most of the large, business and tabloid newspapers, like Dagbladet or Dagens Næringsliv, do not receive support, since they pay dividend to their owners.\n\nBy far the greatest level of support to newspapers arises out of their exemption from sales tax and exceeds NOK 1 billion. This exemption was instituted to foster a variety of perspectives from newspapers; to stimulate public debate and consciousness, democracy, freedom of speech and to enable the media to act as society's watch-dog.\n"}
{"id": "22419340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22419340", "title": "Prix de Rome (Belgium)", "text": "Prix de Rome (Belgium)\n\nThe Belgian Prix de Rome () is an award for young artists, created in 1832, following the example of the original French Prix de Rome. The Royal Academy of Fine Arts Antwerp organised the prize until 1920, when the national government took over. The first prize is also sometimes called the Grand Prix de Rome. There were distinct categories for painting, sculpture, architecture and music. \n\nThe Prix de Rome was a scholarship for arts students. It was created in 1663 in France under the reign of Louis XIV. It was an annual burse for promising artists (painters, sculptors, and architects) who proved their talents by completing a very difficult elimination contest. The prize, organised by the Royal Academy of Painting and Sculpture (\"Académie royale de peinture et de sculpture\"), was open to their students. The award winner would win a stay at the Palazzo Mancini in Rome at the expense of the King of France. The stay could be extended if the director of the institution deemed it desirable.\n\nExpanded after 140 years into five categories, the contest started in 1663 as three categories — painting, sculpting, and architecture; in 1803, music was added; in 1804, engraving was added. The winner of the \"First Grand Prize\" (called the \"agréé\") would be sent to The Academy of France in Rome founded by Jean-Baptiste Colbert in 1666. In 1807, Louis Napoleon created the Dutch version of the Prix de Rome. After the creation of Belgium as an independent state in 1830, the Belgian government started their own version of the Prix de Rome in 1832. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "12077353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12077353", "title": "Rita Boley Bolaffio", "text": "Rita Boley Bolaffio\n\nRita Boley Bolaffio (Trieste, Italy, 7 June 1898 - New York City, United States, 20 May 1995) was an artist who was instrumental in reintroducing collage and decoupage into the United States. She created powerful artwork that underscored the importance of grace and imagination.\n\nRita was born Margherita Luzzatto to Angelo Luzzatto and Olga Senigaglia in Trieste, Italy.\n\nHer family moved to Vienna, where she passed World War I. She studied art under Josef Hoffmann at the Kunstgewerbeschule and did textile designs for the renowned Wiener Werkstaette under the name Grete Luzzatto. She also studied violin under the famous violinist František Ondříček.\n\nIn 1919 she married Oscar Bolaffio, an architect and engineer, and cousin of painter Vittorio Bolaffio. They moved to Milan in 1928, where Rita became one of the first horsewomen in Italy, riding sidesaddle, and won the \"Premio Ciglione della Malpensa\" (the Ciglione della Malpensa Prize) in 1936.\n\nIn 1939, the Fascist anti-Jewish policies forced the family to flee to America. She began a career as an artist, specializing in imaginative collages that were displayed in the windows of most major department stores in America, including Lord & Taylor, Saks Fifth Avenue, Bergdorf Goodman, Neiman Marcus, Carson Pirie Scott, and many more, as well as many private commissions. She regularly contributed covers for such magazines as Harper's Bazaar, Vogue, Town & Country, Good Housekeeping, and Woman's Day.\n\nShe had many awards and one-woman exhibitions at museums and galleries (e.g. James Pendleton Gallery in New York City, J.L. Hudson Gallery, Detroit, Guild Hall Museum, East Hampton, N.Y. and the Columbia Museum of Art in South Carolina). Her work was showcased in the New York Times, as well as European reference works on modern art.\n\nShe received the Premio di Sorrento 1965 for her poem \"Nell'afa\".\n\n"}
{"id": "37285663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37285663", "title": "Rønne Theater", "text": "Rønne Theater\n\nRønne Theater, also Bornholms Teater, is a theatre in Rønne, Bornholm, Denmark. It is located on the corner of Teaterstræde (Theater Alley) and Østergade (East Street) in a half-timbered yellow and brown painted house with a red tiled roof. The building, dating from 1783, was expanded into a theatre in 1823, making it Denmark's oldest provincial theatre still in active use. Rønne Theater is a venue for amateur plays and opera as well as cabaret performances. It became a listed building in 1938.\n\nIn early 2001, extensive restoration work was carried out by the Aarhus firm, Exners Tegnestue. With new seating and a new foyer, the Baroque style auditorium now accommodates an audience of 302. The theatre's performances attract some 25,000 people each year.\n\nThe theatre's history goes back to 1818 when three young Bornholmers thought it would be a good idea to develop the carnaval masquerades of the times into an actual theatre performance. As a result, on Carnaval Monday, 2 February 1818, a few scenes from Ludvig Holberg's \"Jean de France\" were staged in Madam Wolffsen's Hall in Rønne's Silkegade. People were so enthusiastic that on 4 April, the drama group \"Ei Blot til Lyst\" was founded. After raising 4,444 Rigsdaler, the company built the theatre in Teaterstræde. The first performance was Kotzebue's \"De onde Luner\" staged on 29 November 1823. Despite the various repairs and renovations the theatre building has undergone, the stage itself has survived unaltered until today.\n\nBornholms Teatre (Bornholm's Theatre), as it is now known, is a regional theatre which strives to offer a variety of rich, high-quality performances drawing on local culture while benefitting from the collaboration of the island's associations and artists. It also stages performances by theatrical companies on tour. A major annual attraction is the Bornholmer Revue. In collaboration with Bornholms Dramaskole, the theatre provides a venue for local children to be introduced to the art of drama. The Bornholm Regional Municipality provides financial support for the theatre. The theater has become a summer performance venue.\n\n"}
{"id": "26561639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26561639", "title": "Standard Model (Exhibition)", "text": "Standard Model (Exhibition)\n\nStandard Model is the title of an exhibition held between 1 October and 25 October 2009 at the Nordin Gallery, Stockholm. The exhibition was made in collaboration between Swedish artist Karl Tuikkanen and London based Australian artist David Brazier and represents the first physical manifestation of their artistic partnership exploring ideas of communication and collaboration mediated through the internet.\n\nCentral to the artists’ process has been mining the public information resource Wikipedia, allowing for the logic of the network to develop the content of the exhibition. Beginning with the Wikipedia page for ‘standard model’ the artists used the system of selecting and sending Wikipedia links between Stockholm and London to quickly take them to destinations far removed from their points of departure.\n\nReminiscent of surrealist strategies of “stream of consciousness” and “Exquisite Corpse” Tuikkanen and Brazier relinquish authorial control, choosing instead to hand it over to the web based dialogue and the content of internet links. In doing so, coherence and rationality is discarded for a logic which follows loose associations, without hierarchy or proof of authenticity.\n\nEach artist began with the Wikipedia page for ‘standard model’. From there the artist would select a link and send it to the other artist who would repeat the process until the final information page was six times removed from the original Wikipedia page for ‘standard model’. The information that emerged through this process provided the content for works made and exhibited. This process was repeated 12 times.\n\nThe chain of links for each work is shown below.\n\nStandard Model,\nGlobal symmetry,\nCulture of the United Kingdom,\nGreat fire of London,\nBubonic Plague,\nUnit 731,\nNorth Korean human experimentation\n\nStandard Model,\nFundamental Interaction,\nBig Bang Theory,\nNatural Philosophy,\nBook of Optics,\nOckham’s Razor,\nGod of the Gaps\n\nStandard Model,\nMomentum,\nRoman Numerals,\nDionysius Exiguus,\nHerod the Great,\nScabies,\nParasitism\n\nStandard Model,\nCERN,\nThe 39 Clues,\nKGB,\nJulius and Ethel Rosenberg,\nAnti Americanism,\nFormaldehyde\n\nStandard Model,\nAntimatter,\nPositron emission tomography,\nAlzheimer disease,\nHerpes Simplex,\nAloe vera,\nHybrid\n\nStandard Model,\nMatter,\nDark Energy,\nHubble Space Telescope,\nKonstantin Tsiolkovsky,\nScience Fiction,\nThe Man in the High Castle\n\nStandard Model,\nNobel Prize in Physics,\nX-ray,\nStrategic Defense Initiative,\nDisinformation,\nMossad,\nOperation Wrath of God\n\nStandard Model,\nPenguin diagram,\n1991,\nIraq disarmament crisis,\nNiger uranium documents,\nPlame affair,\nOperation Merlin\n\nStandard Model,\nUnsolved problems in physics,\nMultiple universes,\nFine-tuned universe,\nCreationism,\nFree will,\nLaplace demon\n\nStandard Model,\nTheory of everything,\nStephen Hawking,\nNerdcore hiphop,\nNerdapalooza,\nPixelh8,\nColossus computer\n\nStandard Model,\nPeer review,\nThomas Kuhn,\nInternational Relations,\nPower transition theory,\nAsian Century\n\nStandard Model,\nSheldon Glashow,\nJew,\nZionism,\nBar Kokhba revolt,\nDead Sea scrolls,\nCopper Scroll\n\nA two volume Wikipedia Book has been created. It includes the Standard Model (Exhibition) article and the seventy three other articles that informed the exhibition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21952054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21952054", "title": "The Bob Hope Theatre", "text": "The Bob Hope Theatre\n\nThe Bob Hope Theatre is a community theatre in Eltham in the Royal Borough of Greenwich, England. The theatre is owned and run by the members of Eltham Little Theatre Company. The theatre's own repertory members present approximately 11 shows each year, including a pantomime every January, and an annual musical. A variety of other companies also perform at the theatre throughout the year – about 15 additional productions.\n\nEltham Little Theatre (ELT) Company was formed on 12 November 1943, to promote drama, music and allied arts in Eltham and its immediate vicinity. During the early years, it was without a permanent home but early in 1946, ELT was able to arrange an annual lease on Eltham Parish Hall (the current theatre). Eltham Parish Hall (built in 1910) was unavailable earlier as it was being used as a military furniture store for the duration of the Second World War.\n\nDuring the period from 1948 to 1950 there were some 600 individual members and 25 affiliated societies, and a production was staged every other weekend throughout the season.\n\nThroughout this time, the theatre’s management aimed eventually to purchase the building. Members were continually engaged in fund-raising activities to that end. By 1957, however, it became apparent that the asking price was beyond reach, and a sub-committee memorandum was submitted to the Borough Council with a recommendation that the building be acquired as an artistic centre for Eltham. While rejecting the recommendation, the council awarded the theatre a grant in aid, towards running expenses, in the sum of £150. This grant, increased to keep step with inflation, continued until the 1980s.\n\nThe Bob Hope Theatre is a member of the Little Theatre Guild of Great Britain.\n\nDuring the late 1970s, several commercial concerns expressed an interest in the building for such purposes as a video recording studio, a sports centre and a multi-entertainment complex. None of these came to fruition for one reason or another. However, in 1979, the owner of the theatre wanted to sell the land and so would not renew the lease and without funds to find another base, members were widely resigned to the closure of both the building and the company.\n\nBy chance, Bob Hope, who was born in Craigton Road, Eltham, was in the UK to promote the Bob Hope British Classic Golf Tournament when he heard about the plight of the theatre.\n\nHope resolved to do what he could to help, and raised £58,000 through the 1980 and 1981 golf tournaments.\n\nHope was assisted by celebrity friends in fund-raising for the theatre. While negotiations for the purchase of the building continued, Dickie Henderson (vice-chairman of the Bob Hope British Golf Classic) gave a benefit performance of his one-man show at the theatre to raise funds towards refurbishment. This was a tremendous evening of entertainment, enhanced by\nthe presence in the audience of several star personalities, including Max Wall.\n\nIn November 1982, the purchase of the freehold was completed and Eltham Little Theatre was renamed The Bob Hope Theatre.\n\nIn September 1982, Hope became co-honorary president of Eltham Little Theatre Company along with former President of the United States Gerald Ford, who was heavily involved with the Bob Hope Classic Golf Tournament.\n\nIn August 1991, Hope donated £28,000 from the benefit performance he staged at the London Palladium to raise money directly for the theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "27422182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27422182", "title": "The Course in Positive Philosophy", "text": "The Course in Positive Philosophy\n\nThe Course in Positive Philosophy (\"Cours de Philosophie Positive\") was a series of texts written by the French philosopher of science and founding sociologist, Auguste Comte, between 1830 and 1842. Within the work he unveiled the epistemological perspective of positivism. The works were translated into English by Harriet Martineau and condensed to form \"The Positive Philosophy of Auguste Comte\" (1853).\n\nThe first three volumes of the \"Course\" dealt chiefly with the physical sciences already in existence (mathematics, astronomy, physics, chemistry, biology), whereas the latter two emphasised the inevitable coming of social science. It is in observing the circular dependence of theory and observation in science, and classifying the sciences in this way, that Comte may be regarded as the first philosopher of science in the modern sense of the term. For him, the physical sciences had necessarily to arrive first, before humanity could adequately channel its efforts into the most challenging and complex \"queen science\" of human society itself. His \"A General View of Positivism\" (published in English in 1865) would therefore set out to define, in more detail, the empirical goals of sociology.\n"}
{"id": "26077836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26077836", "title": "The Daylight and Building Component Award", "text": "The Daylight and Building Component Award\n\nThe Daylight and Building Component Award is presented annually to an individual, or group of individuals, who have contributed significantly to the technical, social, artistic or design-related understanding of daylight. Previous awardees include architects, scientists, artists and building professionals, and the award carries with it a prize of 100,000 Euro. The award was established in 1980 and is given by the VELUX Foundation.\n\nUpon its establishment in 1980, the Daylight and Building Component Award was given to Danish citizens who had made a significant contribution to the understanding and practical use of daylight. In the early years, this meant that many of the recipients were architects or artists, many of whom had worked with daylight in an architectural or design context. Jørn Utzon, one of the most famous Danish Architects of the 20th century, was among the group awarded the first year. \nThrough the next twenty-five years, the award was given intermittently, often to larger groups of individuals. In 2006, the award was given to the father-son team of architects Povl Wilhelm Wohlert and Claus Ditlev Wohlert. \n\nIn 2008, was converted to an annual award with four categories:\n\nThe monetary prize was also doubled in 2008 to 100,000 Euro, making it one of the largest of its kind within the architecture and building communities worldwide. \n\nIn 2010, the award was given to American architect James Carpenter, whose recent projects include the design of 7 World Trade Center, the first building to be reconstructed at the site since Sept. 11, 2001.\n\nThe award is given around the first of March each year at a ceremony in Hørsholm, Denmark.\n\nList of architecture prizes\n"}
{"id": "45221872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45221872", "title": "The Peasants Returning From The Fields", "text": "The Peasants Returning From The Fields\n\nThe Peasants' Return From The Fields is a c.1640 painting by Peter Paul Rubens. It arrived in Florence in 1765 and is now in the Galleria Palatina in Florence.\n\nIt has long been a pendant to \"Odysseus on the island of the Phaecians\". \n\n"}
{"id": "51987651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51987651", "title": "Treasure Museum of the Basilica of Saint Francis in Assisi", "text": "Treasure Museum of the Basilica of Saint Francis in Assisi\n\nThe Treasure museum of the basilica of Saint Francis contains a collection of sacred art that is on display in two halls found on the northern side of the Cloister of Pope Sixtus IV which is part of the \"Sacro Convento\" in Assisi, Italy. The entrance is found on the second level of the renaissance cloister behind the apse of the Basilica of Saint Francis, which houses the remains of St. Francis of Assisi. Since 1986 the Museum has also displayed a collection of works donated to the Conventual Franciscan Friars by the Secular Franciscan and American art critic, Frederick Mason Perkins, who died in Assisi in October 1955.\n\nThe Museum is part of the \"Associazione Musei Ecclesiastici Italiani\" (AMEI) and the network \"Museale Ecclesiastica Umbra\" (MEU).\n\nIn 1930, three years after the return of the Basilica and the Sacred Convent to the friars, the first exposition of the Treasure was put on display in the hall of Pope Pius XI at the western end of complex. The exhibition was designed to honor the works of the original patrimony which survived not only the ravages of time, but especially the plundering by Napoleon's troops (in 1798 nearly 390 kilograms of vestments in silver and other valuables were stolen). These works also survived the suppression of religious orders in 1866 during Italy's unification, when in any case the room in which the Treasure was kept, at the bottom of the bell tower, was already in a dilapidated state.\n\nFrom documents found in the archives, especially from the old sacristy inventories (the first of which was taken in 1338), we can learn something about the evolution of the collection. But other sources also testify to the Treasure's development: the first biographies of St. Francis attest, for example, that in 1230 on occasion of the translation of Francis's body to the new church dedicated to him, Pope Gregory IX sent as a gift \"a gold cross studded with precious stones in which is set a relic of the wood of the true cross. And with it decorative objects, liturgical objects and other objects to be used for serving at the altar, and extremely precious and magnificent sacred vestments.\"\n\nAs many other gifts amassed during these early decades, their necessary care created various difficulties and also caused the followers of St. Francis (known as \"il Poverello\"), to have some misgivings. So in 1253, to resolve these conflicts, Pope Innocent IV intervened with this bull \"Dignum Extimamus\" recognizing that the friars were permitted use of these gifts but were not their owners, just as was the case for the entire sanctuary complex as directed by the Apostolic See. At the same time, he forbid the removal of any of these objects from the Basilica. This was reaffirmed by Pope Clement X in 1703.\n\nIt's essential that the Treasure's exposition be considered within the context of the monumental complex, made up by the Basilica and the Sacred Convent, that constitutes the original location for which the Treasure was formed and for which some works were in fact specifically made. The rooms in which the Museum is found today were part of the original construction of 1228, made at the bidding of Pope Gregory IX to the community of friars. This area would certainly have been used even if for short stays by the Pope who had put the entire complex under his immediate jurisdiction.\n\nIn 1756 this area, sitting directly over the old dormitory (now known as the Sala Romanica), underwent heavy reconstruction in the Neo-gothic style, which is why it is today known as the Gothic Hall. It is precisely in this room that from 1977 the Treasure has been on view, while in the adjoining room, towards the so-called Papal Hall (the first site of the Museum), is the Sala Rossa, or Red Hall, in which since 1986 the F. M. Perkins Collection has been on display.\n\nThe current arrangement of the works dates from the year 2000 when the Museum was reopened after extensive repairs were made to the structural damage caused by the earthquake of September 1997.\n\nDespite the impoverishment suffered during the course of its history, the Museum still contains works that can be admired for their great beauty and notable historical and artistic interest, allowing us only to imagine how much grander the collection was up until the end of the 18th century, when it remained in large portion intact.\n\nThe collection contains for the most part works of the so-called minor arts, although it does contain some sculpture and paintings. Among that which has survived from the very start of the collection, we find clear testimony of the Treasure's international character in works of French origin (like the illuminated manuscripts from Paris from the middle of the 13th century; gold and silver metalwork, among which is the magnificent reliquary of the Seamless Garment as well as the reliquary of the thorn from the Crown of Thorns in classic Parigian gothic style from the second half of the 12th century; and also an elegant Madonna and Child in ivory, also in the purest French gothic of the 14th century), of Flemish origin (the tapestry of Pope Sixtus IV and a few ivory carvings), and of Germanic origin (the clock donated in 1701 by the Austrian Emperor Leopold I to Fr. Vincenzo Coronelli, and a few precious metal works from Salzburg).\n\nGold and silver metalwork predominates: the reliquaries come in various forms and styles, and are from various places and times. Some are distinguished by their uniqueness, for example those of Saint Andrew (13th century) and Saint Ursula (14th century), decorated with gilded and engraved glass. Among the altar vessels are a number of chalices, from different epochs, of which the most celebrated is surely that of gold-plated silver and enamels made by Guccio di Mannaia and gift of Pope Nicholas IV, the first Franciscan pope, who reigned from 1288-1292.\n\nAlso on display are: two rare Sicilian silk dossals from the beginning of the 13th century, works of Venetian glass (a crystal cross with miniatures from the early 14th century), and a number of painted works among which is the processional cross, painted on both sides, by the Master of the Blue Crucifix (late 13th century), and two altar panels by Tiberio di Assisi and Lo Spagna, both working at the end of the 15th and beginning of the 16th centuries. Among the textiles deserving special mention is the Florentine altar-frontal which was based on a drawing by Antonio del Pollaiolo and donated to the Basilica by Pope Sixtus IV in (perhaps?) 1478 on the occasion of the 250th anniversary of the canonization of Saint Francis.\n\nIn the second half of the 20th century, the Perkins Collection, made up of 56 paintings and a sculpture spanning the 14th to the 16th century, was donated to the Museum. The collection contains, to name only a few items, a portrait of \"Saint Francis\" by Beato Angelico, a \"Madonna and Child \"by Garofalo, two panel paintings by Giovanni di Paolo and three by Pietro Lorenzetti, a \"Saint Sebastian\" by dell’Ortolano and a \"Saint Christopher \"by Sassetta.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17116371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17116371", "title": "Underground art", "text": "Underground art\n\nUnderground art, is any form of art that operates outside of conventional norms in the art world, part of underground culture. This can include essentially any genre of art that is not popular in the art world, including visionary art and street art. Underground art can include art created both legally and illegally, organized or unauthorized, and can essentially exist in any form.\n\nVisionary Art is often considered a form of underground art because of it popularity outside conventional art channels. Rather than being displayed in galleries and museums, most visionary art is displayed online, at music festivals, or other forms of gatherings such as Burning Man and Rainbow Gatherings.\n\nStreet Art, also is often considered a form of underground art because of its unconventional settings. Again, rather than galleries and museums, street art exists in outdoors spaces, utilizing stickers, Lock On sculptures, installations, stencils, and/or spray paint as its medium.\n\nGraffiti, a form of street art, typically refers to illegal forms of street art. Public response to graffiti is not always favorable and is often negative. Others say that unauthorized art comes from a desire to spread beauty and make cityscapes more interesting by painting over blank or barren walls.\nA controversial point is whether or not these types of art should be taught in a formal setting. Guerrilla art falls under that umbrella of thought. It is understood, that these acts mostly happen on public property.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "370768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=370768", "title": "Variation of the field", "text": "Variation of the field\n\nIn heraldry, variations of the field are any of a number of ways that a field (or a charge) may be covered with a pattern, rather than a flat tincture or a simple division of the field.\n\nVariations of the field of present a particular problem concerning consistent spelling of adjectival endings in English blazons. Because heraldry developed at a time when English clerks wrote in Anglo-Norman French, many terms in English heraldry are of French origin, as is the practice of placing most adjectives after nouns rather than before. A problem arises as to acceptable spellings of French words used in English blazons, especially in the case of adjectival endings, determined in normal French usage by gender and number. It is considered by some heraldic authorities as pedantry to adopt strictly correct linguistic usage for English blazons:\nCussans (1898) adopted the convention of spelling all French adjectives in the masculine singular, without regard to the gender and number of the nouns they qualify; however, as Cussans admits, the commoner convention is to spell all French adjectives in the feminine singular form, for example: \"a chief undée\" and \"a saltire undée\", even though the French nouns \"chef\" and \"sautoir\" are in fact masculine.\n\nThe diminutives of the ordinaries are frequently employed to vary the field.\n\nAny of these patterns may be counterchanged by the addition of a division line; for example, \"barry argent and azure, counterchanged per fess\" or \"checquy Or and gules, counterchanged per chevron\".\n\nWhen the field is patterned with an even number of horizontal (fesswise) stripes, this is described as \"barry\" e.g. of six or eight, usually of a colour and metal specified, e.g. \"barry of six argent and gules\" (this implies that the chiefmost piece is argent). More rarely, a barry field can be of two colours or two metals. (The arms of the Kingdom of Hawai'i show a very unusual example of barry of three different tinctures, and there are even more exceptional examples of barry of a single tincture, as in the arms of Kempten on the Zurich roll. The arms of Eyfelsberg zum Wehr provide a perhaps unique example of barry of four different tinctures that do not repeat. With ten or more pieces, the field is described as \"barruly\".\nA field \"having the appearance of\" a number of narrow piles throughout issuing from the dexter of sinister flanks is \"barry pily\".\n\nWhen the field is patterned with an even number of vertical stripes (pallets), the field is described as \"paly\". \n\nWhen the field is patterned with a series of diagonal stripes (bendlets), running from top-left to bottom-right, the field is described as \"bendy\". In the opposite fashion (top-right to bottom-left) it is \"bendy sinister\"; (of \"skarpes,\" the diminutive in England of the bend sinister) of chevronels, \"chevronny\". (An unusual example of bendy in which a metal alternates with two colours is in the arms of Dr. Murray Lee Eiland Jr.)\n\nIn modern practice the number of pieces is nearly always even. \nA shield of thirteen vertical stripes, alternating argent and gules, would not be \"paly of thirteen, argent and gules\", but \"argent, six pallets gules\". (This is the lower portion of the shield on the Great Seal of the United States of America. The incorrect blazon is usually used anyway, to preserve the reference to the thirteen original colonies, and this form is occasionally imitated allusively.)\nOne unusual design is described in part as \"bendy of three\" though, as each third is again divided, the effect is of a six-part division.\n\nIf no number of pieces is specified, it may be left up to the heraldic artist (but is still an even number).\n\nAn instance of a \"fess... paly Sable, Argent, [Bleu] Celeste and Or\" occurs in the arms of the 158th Quartermaster Battalion of the United States Army, although this is atypical terminology and it could be argued that the fess should be blazoned as \"per pale, in dexter per pale Sable and Argent, and in sinister per pale Bleu Celeste and Or\".\n\nIn the of the Count of Schwarzburg, the quarters are divided by a cross bendy of three tinctures.\n\nWhen the shield is divided by lines both palewise and bendwise, with the pieces coloured alternately like a chess board, this is \"paly-bendy\"; if the diagonal lines are reversed, \"paly-bendy sinister\"; if horizontal rather than vertical lines are used, \"barry-bendy\"; and mutatis mutandis, \"barry-bendy sinister\".\n\nA field which seems to be composed of a number of triangular pieces is \"barry bendy and bendy sinister\".\n\nWhen divided by palewise and fesswise lines into a chequered pattern, the field is \"chequy\". The coat of arms of Croatia \"Chequy gules and argent\" is well known. The arms of \"Bleichröder, banker to Bismarck,\" show chequy \"fimbriated\" (the \"chequers\" being divided by thin lines). The arms of the 85th Air Division (Defense) of the United States Air Force show \"a checky grid\" on part of the field, though this is to be distinguished from \"chequy\". The number of chequers is generally indeterminate, though the fess in the arms of Robert Stewart, Lord of Lorn, they are blazoned as being \"of four tracts\" (in four horizontal rows); and in arms of Toledo, fifteen chequers are specified. The number of vertical rows can also be specified. When a bend or bend sinister, or one of their diminutives, is chequy, the chequers follow the direction of the bend unless otherwise specified. James Parker cites the French term \"equipolle\" to mean chequy of nine, though mentions that this is identical to a \"cross quarter-pierced\" (strangely, this is blazoned as \"a Latin square chequy of nine\" in the arms of the Statistical Society of Canada). He also gives the arms of Prospect as an unusual example of chequy, \"Chequy in perspective argent and sable\"; this must be distinguished from cubes as a charge. Chequy is not \"fanciable\"; that is, the lines of chequy cannot be modified by lines of partition.\n\nWhen the shield is divided by both bendwise and bendwise-sinister lines, creating a field of lozenges (again coloured like a chessboard), the result is \"lozengy\". (But generally lozengy is depicted with the lozenges narrower in width than would be \"bendy bendy-sinister\", which at least in theory would be a different field.) A field lozengy must be distinguished from an ordinary such as a bend which is blazoned of one tincture and called \"lozengy\"; this means that the ordinary is entirely composed of lozenges, touching at their obtuse corners. Such arrangement is better blazoned as \"lozenges bendwise\". (The Royal arms of Bavaria have occasionally been blazoned as \"lozengy fesswise\"; that is, with the narrower axis of the component lozenges vertically rather than horizontally oriented. Similarly, Landkreis Erding adopted arms with a chief \"bendy lozengy\", and the arms of the Crofts of Dalton-in-Furness, Lancashire, England are \"Bendy lozengy argent and sable.\") In \"paly bendy\" the bendwise lines are supposed to be less acute than in plain lozengy.)\n\nPart of the field of the arms of the 544th Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Group of the United States Air Force is \"lozengy in perspective\".\n\nA field \"fusilly\" can be very difficult to distinguish from a field lozengy (in early days no clear distinction was made between lozenges and fusils); the fusil is supposed to be proportionately narrower than the lozenge, and the bendwise and bendwise-sinister lines are therefore more steeply sloped.\n\nA field \"masculy\" is composed entirely of mascles; that is, lozenges pierced with a lozenge shape – this creates a solid fretwork surface and is to be distinguished from a field \"fretty\".\n\nAn extremely rare, possibly unique example of a field \"rustré\" - counterchanged rustres - occurs in Canadian heraldry in the arms of R.C. Purdy Chocolates Ltd.\n\nA shield that is divided quarterly and per saltire, forming eight triangular pieces, is \"gyronny\". This is technically a field covered with \"gyrons\", a rare charge in the form of a wedge, shown individually in the well-known arms of Mortimer. Possibly the best known example is in the arms of the ancient Scottish family of Campbell: \"Gyronny of eight or and sable\", borne most notably by the Duke of Argyll, Chief of the Clan Campbell. The first tincture in the blazon is that of the triangle in dexter chief. (There are apparently very rare examples in which gyronny is of more than two tinctures such as the arms of Origo of Milan: \"Gyronny, sable, argent, vert, sable, argent, vert, sable, vert\".) Gyronny can also have a different number of pieces than eight; for example, Sir William Stokker, Lord Mayor of London, had a field gyronny of six; there may be gyronny of ten or twelve, and the arms of Clackson provide an example of \"gyronny of sixteen\".(There cannot be gyronny of four, as that would be either per saltire or quarterly, or three, as that would be tierced in pairle or tierced in pairle reversed.) While the gyrons of gyronny almost invariably meet in the fess point (the exact centre of the shield) the arms of the University of Zululand are an unusual example of gyronny meeting in the nombril point (a point on the shield midway between the fess point and the base point). Gyronny can be modified by (most of) the lines of partition (there would be exceptions such as dancetty and angled).\n\nThe canting arms of Maugiron show \"Gyronny of six\", clearly deemed \"mal-gironné\" (\"badly gyronny\").\n\nAny of the division lines composing the variations of the field above may be blazoned with most of the different line shapes; e.g. \"paly nebuly of six, Or and sable.\" One very common use of this is \"barry wavy azure and argent\"; this is often used to represent either water or a body of water in general, or the sea in particular, though there are other if less commonly used methods of representing the sea, including in a more naturalistic manner.\n\nWhen the field (or a charge) is described as semé or semy of a sub-ordinary or other charge, it is depicted as being scattered (literally \"seeded\") with many copies of that charge. Semé is regarded as part of the field and thus within the opening section of the blazon describing the field before the first comma. Thus: \"Azure semy-de-lis or\" not \"Azure, semy-de-lis or\". A charge on top would be blazoned: \"Azure semy-de-lis or, a bend argent\".\n\nTo avoid confusion with a simple use of a large number of the same charge (e.g. \"Azure, fifteen fleurs-de-lis Or\"), the charges semé are ideally depicted cut off at the edge of the field, though in olden depictions this is often not the case. An example of this can be found in the modern Coat of arms of Denmark, which now features three lions among nine hearts, but the ancient arms depicted three leopards on a \"semy\" of hearts, the number of which varied and was not fixed at nine until 1819. There are also some exceptions to this, as in the case of some bordures blazoned \"semé\", which are usually depicted with a discrete number (often eight) of the charge. Thus for example the arms of Jesus College, Cambridge, which despite a blazon of \"seme\" are invariably depicted with either eight or ten \"crowns Golde\" on its bordure. A large number (usually eight) of any one charge arranged as if upon an invisible bordure is said to be \"in orle\", an orle being a diminutive band within the bordure.\n\nMost small charges can be depicted as semé, e.g. \"semé of roses,\" \"semé of estoiles,\" and so forth. In English heraldry, several types of small charges have special terms to refer to their state as semé:\n\n\nWhen a field semé is of a metal, the charges strewn on it must be of a tincture (colour), and vice versa, so as not to offend the rule of tincture.\n\nIn Cornish heraldry the arms granted to the Hockin family are \"Per fesse wavy gules and azure, in chief a lion passant gardant or beneath the feet a musket lying fesswise proper the base semy of fleurs-de-lis confusedly dispersed of the third,\" alluding to an incident in which the Cornish soldier Thomas Hockin caused the French to scatter.\n\nThe 1995-2002 arms of Rogaška Slatina, Slovenia show \"Vert, semee of disks or decreasing in size from base to chief\".\n\nThe heraldic furs of the ermine family appear to be semé of the \"ermine dots,\" but they are not counted as such; but fields semy of ermine spots are, as in the coat of Wrexham County Borough Council.\n\nA field or ordinary \"masoned\" shows a pattern like that of a brick or ashlar stone wall. This can be \"proper\" or of a named tincture. The tincture relates to the mortar between the stones or bricks, the latter being argent: a wall of red bricks with white mortar is thus blazoned: \"gules masoned argent\".\n\nThe town of Viļāni, Latvia, has part of its field honeycombed. Another example of this is in the arms of Fusagasugá, Cundinamarca, Colombia.\n\nThe arms of the Special Troops Battalion of the 2nd Brigade, 1st Cavalry Division of the United States Army has the unique field \"Per pale Sable and Gules with stylized folds Sanguine\", the sinister half of the field symbolizing a warrior's cape.\n\nA field \"pappellony\" (French: \"Papillon\", \"butterfly\") shows a pattern like the wings of a butterfly, though this is categorised as a fur. The number of rows of pappellony are sometimes defined, such as seven in the arms of the Aleberici Family of Bologna. The arms of the French Barons de Châteaubriant (ancient) were: \"Gules papellony or.\" The Italian term \"squamoso\" and the French \"écaillé\", meaning 'scaly', are similar.\n\nUsed in some South-African coats, this means patterned like the markings of a bull or cow. There is at least one example that is more elaborately blazoned.\n\nA field \"tapissé of wheat\" is entirely covered (literally \"carpeted\") by an interlocking stylised pattern looking like a wheat field.\n\nIn English heraldry, diapering (covering areas of flat colour with a tracery design when depicting arms) is not considered a variation of the field; it is not specified in blazon, being a decision of the individual artist. A coat depicted with diapering is considered the same as a coat drawn from the same blazon but depicted without diapering.\n\nIn French heraldry, diapering is sometimes explicitly blazoned.\n\nA field \"fretty\" is composed of bendlets and bendlets-sinister or \"scarps\", interleaved over one another to give the impression of a trellis. Although almost invariably the bendlets and scarpes are of the same tincture, there is an example in which they are of two different metals. (It is rare for the number of pieces of the fretty to be specified, though this is sometimes done in French blazon.) (The bendlets and bendlets sinister are very rarely other than straight, as in the arms of David Robert Wooten, in which they are raguly.) Objects can be placed in the position of the bendlets and bendlets sinister and described as \"fretty of,\" as in the arms of the Muine Bheag Town Commissioners: \"Party per fess or fretty of blackthorn branches leaves proper and ermine, a fess wavy azure\".\n\"Square fretty\" is similarly composed of barrulets and pallets.\n\n\"Trellisé\" appears in the arms of Luc-Normand Tellier, where it consists of \"bendlets, bendlets sinister and barrulets\" interlaced.\n[These are not, strictly speaking, variations of the field, since they are depicted as being on the field rather than in it.]\n\n"}
{"id": "930382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=930382", "title": "Velma Dinkley", "text": "Velma Dinkley\n\nVelma Dinkley is a fictional character in the \"Scooby-Doo\" franchise. She is usually seen wearing a baggy orange turtleneck, short pleated skirt (or in later episodes an A-line skirt, or sometimes shorts), knee socks, Mary Janes, and most prominently, a pair of square glasses, which she frequently loses. She is seen as the brains of the group.\n\nThroughout her various incarnations, Velma is usually portrayed as a highly intelligent young woman with highly specific interests in science (which in the \"Scooby and Scrappy Doo\" series leads her to pursue a career as a NASA research scientist) or merely being very well read on obscure fields, such as Viking writing (as in the third Scooby-Doo series \"The New Scooby-Doo Mysteries\"). In \"Scooby-Doo! Abracadabra-Doo\", Velma is described by her younger sister Madelyn as being \"born with a mystery book in her hand\". Consequently, Velma is usually the one to figure out the mystery, sometimes with the help of Fred and Daphne. Velma Dinkley was inspired by the brainy tomboy Zelda Gilroy, as played by Sheila James, from the late 1950s/early 1960s American sitcom \"The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis\".\n\nA running gag in \"Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!\" and \"The New Scooby-Doo Movies\" is Velma's severe nearsightedness and her trouble with keeping her glasses on her face (often resulting in them falling off while she is being chased by the villain). Another running gag is that despite the fact that she is the smallest of the Scooby-Doo gang she can actually carry away the whole gang in her arms from a villain.\n\nWhen Scooby-Doo is too afraid to volunteer to help with a mission, Velma often offers him a dog treat called a \"Scooby Snack\" as a bribe. She also occasionally displays a strong, take-charge personality when needed, sharply ordering Shaggy to \"march!\" in an early episode, and she is not above physically attacking a villain when provoked, as when she kicked The Creeper in the knee for snatching her glasses right off her face. Her catchphrases are: \"Jinkies!\" and \"My glasses! I can't see without my glasses!\" (when she accidentally loses her glasses).\n\nLike all of the Scooby-Doo kids, later ret-conned as Mystery Incorporated members, Velma has differing personal backgrounds and histories depending on which series one is referring to.\n\nIn the original flagship \"Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!\" series, Velma attended the same high school as the rest of the gang (as stated in the inaugural episode \"What a Night for a Knight\"). However, by \"The New Scooby-Doo Movies\", Velma is said to have graduated from a different high school than her friends (as stated in the episode \"Spirited Spooked Sports Show\").\n\nIn the film \"Scooby-Doo! Curse of the Lake Monster\", it is revealed that her middle name is Daisy.\n\nRelatives of Velma shown during the series' run include:\n\n\nVelma has been voiced by several actresses. From 1969 to 1973, Nicole Jaffe voiced Velma; from 1976 to 1979, Pat Stevens voiced the character. From 1979 to 1980, Marla Frumkin provided her voice. Velma did not speak in the \"Scooby-Doo and Scrappy-Doo\" final episode, \"The Ransom of Scooby Chief\". After the character's absence from 1980 to 1983 series, Marla Frumkin reprised the role of Velma as a guest star in \"The New Scooby-Doo Mysteries\". Velma was absent again until \"A Pup Named Scooby-Doo\" when Christina Lange voiced the role. B.J. Ward voiced Velma in a Johnny Bravo crossover episode. From the animated movie, \"Scooby-Doo on Zombie Island\" on, B.J. Ward reprised her role in all movies through \"Scooby-Doo and the Cyber Chase\", as well as an episode of the Adult Swim animated series, \"Harvey Birdman, Attorney at Law\". Nicole Jaffe returned temporarily to voice Velma in the direct-to-video movies \"Scooby-Doo! and the Legend of the Vampire\" and \"Scooby-Doo! and the Monster of Mexico\".\n\nFrom 2002 until 2015, Velma was voiced by Mindy Cohn of \"The Facts of Life\" fame. In \"\", Velma is voiced by Stephanie D'Abruzzo. On July 8, 2015, it was announced that Kate Micucci would take over the role of Velma in the upcoming series \"Be Cool, Scooby-Doo!\". \n\nIn the 2002 and 2004 live-action movies, Velma is played by Linda Cardellini, who then voiced her for the \"\" video game and \"Robot Chicken\". Lauren Kennedy portrayed young Velma in a flashback sequence in \"\". Velma is portrayed by Hayley Kiyoko in the 2009 live-action movie \"Scooby-Doo! The Mystery Begins\" and its 2010 sequel \"Scooby-Doo! Curse of the Lake Monster\". Sarah Gilman portrayed the young Velma in the 2018 direct-to-video film \"Daphne & Velma\".\n\nAlthough the \"Scooby-Doo\" series and direct-to-video films depict her as heterosexual, the character has a fan base among lesbian viewers due to an interpretation that she is a depiction of a smart, self-possessed lesbian.\n"}
{"id": "48817316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48817316", "title": "Yusuf-Zulekha", "text": "Yusuf-Zulekha\n\nYusuf-Zulekha () is a 15th-century Bengali romantic story in verse written by Shah Muhammad Sagir, which is considered one of the greatest literary works of medieval \"golden era\" of Bengali literature; when Sagir was a court-poet of Sultan Ghiyasuddin Azam Shah of Gaura. Sagir wrote the story on requested ny the Sultan. \n"}
{"id": "20037735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20037735", "title": "Zone de Sensibilité Picturale Immatérielle", "text": "Zone de Sensibilité Picturale Immatérielle\n\nZone de Sensibilité Picturale Immatérielle (Zone of immaterial pictorial sensibility) is an artist's book and performance by the French artist Yves Klein. The work involved the sale of documentation of ownership of empty space (the Immaterial Zone), taking the form of a cheque, in exchange for gold; if the buyer wished, the piece could then be completed in an elaborate ritual in which the buyer would burn the cheque, and Klein would throw half of the gold into the Seine. The ritual would be performed in the presence of an art critic or distinguished dealer, an art museum director and at least two witnesses.\n\nBetween the creation of the piece in 1959 and his death on June 6, 1962, eight \"Zones\" were sold, of which at least three involved the elaborate ritual.\n\n\"Klein's receipts verify the existence of an invisible work of art, which prove that a formal sale has taken place. As Klein establishes in his 'Ritual Rules', each buyer has two possibilities; If he pays the amount of gold agreed upon in exchange for a receipt, Klein keeps all of the gold, and the buyer does not really acquire the \"authentic immaterial value\" of the work. The second possibility is to buy an immaterial zone for gold and then to burn the receipt. Through this act, a perfect, definitive immaterialization is achieved, as well as the absolute inclusion of the buyer in the immaterial... Klein presents capitalist trading strategies and illuminates his ideas about the indefinable, incalculable value of art.\"\n\nThe piece is often seen as an early example of conceptual art.\n\nWhilst on a trip to Cascia, Klein had designed an aeromagnetic sculpture, partially as a response to Jean Cocteau's assertion when visiting his exhibition \"La forêt d’éponges\", June 1959, that it would be even greater if the sponges hovered without supports. Klein's new sculptural idea was to hollow out a sponge, fill it with a hydrogen or helium balloon and a piece of metal, and then place it above a concealed electromagnet to regulate the height at which it would hover. Whilst this idea was never implemented, Klein applied for- and received- a patent on June 30, 1959, and then wrote enthusiastically about this new idea to his dealer Iris Clert, asking her in particular not to mention the invention to her friend, the artist Takis, who had also been experimenting with air sculptures. This led to a serious argument with Clert, who tended to side with Takis, as well as re-opening a previous feud with Jean Tinguely.\n\n\"Their disagreement was so strong that Klein had removed all of his art from Clert's gallery in August 1959 and had told her assistant to inform any interested buyers that his paintings were all invisible and that if a buyer wanted one, it would suffice to write a check. He further specified that the check had to be very visible.\"\n\nClert then told this anecdote to a number of visitors to her gallery, one of whom, Peppino Palazzoli, an Italian gallerist, expressed an interest in buying an invisible artwork from Klein; in an attempt to repair the friendship, Clert informed Klein of the sale. She also recommended that Klein design a 'proper receipt'. Palazzoli became the official owner of the first \"Zone\" on November 18 that year, having bought the work for 20 grams of gold, valued at $466.20 as of November 1, 2008 The reunion with Clert was to prove short-lived, however. By the end of 1959, he would sever his affiliation with her gallery, and the \"Zones of Immaterial Pictorial Sensibility\" would be their last collaboration. His next exhibition, the notorious \"Anthropométries de l'epoque bleue\", March 1960, (featuring models covered in blue paint pressing themselves on to canvases in front of an invited audience of notables) would be held in the considerably more upmarket Galerie Internationale d'Art Contemporain, on the Rive Droite.\n\nThe book took the form of a parody of a banker's chequebook. Klein printed eight books of these receipts of which five survive- apart from the first book (which contained 31 unnumbered checks for an unspecified amount of gold), each book contains 10 numbered receipts for a set value of gold; series one cheques cost 20 grams of gold, series four cost 160 grams. The value of the seventh book's cheques was listed in the \"Antagonismes\" Exhibition, Paris 1960, at 1,280 grams. \n\nAny gold that wasn't thrown into the Seine ended up in Klein's concurrent series of Monogolds; large scale works made of gold leaf. He had first come across the material's use in art whilst working in a framing workshop, Robert Savage's, in London 1949-50; he was also to encounter it used in golden Buddhas and screens whilst visiting Japan. Curiously, these encounters led Klein to associate the precious metal with immateriality;\n\n\"And the gold, it was something! These leaves that literally fluttered with the least current of air on the flat cushion that one held in one hand, while the other hand caught them in the wind with a knife... What a material!\nThe illumination of matter in its deep physical quality, I came to embrace it during that year at the 'Savage' frame shop.\" Klein\nThe use of ritual in Klein's work is a theme running through his work, from his exhibition \"Le Vide\" (The Void) 1958, in which he exhibited invisible works at Clert's gallery flanked by Republican Guards, to his elaborately planned wedding ceremony in 1962 and his votive offering to Saint Rita of Cascia (see ). Klein was fascinated by Catholicism & Buddhism, as well as being an enthusiastic member of the archaic group the Knights of the Order of Saint Sebastian.\nThe obsession with the void, or nothingness, also runs throughout his work, with \"Le Vide\" (The Void) being the most famous example; for his second major exhibition at Iris Clert's, he emptied the entire gallery, painted it white (using his patented medium) and then persuaded the French government to send Republican Guards to stand outside as sentries, at the end of a hallway painted ultramarine, covered with blue curtains to ensure there would be no way of anticipating the gallery's contents. Anyone who didn't have an invitation was charged 1,500 frs. entrance fee. It was estimated that between 2,500 and 3,000 people turned up for the opening, and Clert decided to prolong the exhibition for an extra week to accommodate the 'several hundred' visitors each day.\n\n“Having rejected nothingness, I discovered the void. The meaning of the immaterial pictorial zones, extracted from the depth of the void which by that time was of a very material order. Finding it unacceptable to sell these immaterial zones for money, I insisted in exchange for the highest quality of the immaterial, the highest quality of material payment – a bar of pure gold. Incredible as it may seem, I have actually sold a number of these pictorial immaterial states . . . Painting no longer appeared to me to be functionally related to the gaze, since during the blue monochrome period of 1957 I became aware of what I called the pictorial sensibility. This pictorial sensibility exists beyond our being and yet belongs in our sphere. We hold no right of possession over life itself. It is only by the intermediary of our taking possession of sensibility that we are able to purchase life. Sensibility enables us to pursue life to the level of its base material manifestations, in the exchange and barter that are the universe of space, the immense totality of nature.” Yves Klein, from the \"Chelsea Hotel Manifesto\", 1961\nThe French press delighted in calling the event 'a scandal' (\"Klein Sells Wind!\"), but others were more impressed;\nVarious members of the group present to watch Michael Blankfort's ritual transaction, for instance, on February 10, 1962, concurred that the event was 'extremely awe-inspiring', ending with the noonday chimes ringing out from churches all around Paris. Blankfort, a Hollywood writer, wrote later of having \"no other experience in art equal to the depth of feeling of [the sale ceremony]. It evoked in me a shock of self-recognition and an explosion of awareness of time and space.\"\n\nIt has been suggested that the work is a response to Walter Benjamin's essay \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\", in which he wrote “The unique value of the ‘authentic’ work of art has its basis in ritual, the location of its original use value.” If so, the \"Zones\" directly refute Benjamin's central argument, that modern mass production can finally \"emancipate the work of art from its parasitical dependence on ritual\".\n\n\"Believe me, one is not robbed when one buys such paintings; it is I who am always robbed because I accept money.\" Yves Klein\n\n"}
