{"id": "24456791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24456791", "title": "1970 British Cohort Study", "text": "1970 British Cohort Study\n\nThe 1970 British Cohort Study (BCS70) is a continuing, multi-disciplinary longitudinal survey monitoring the development of babies born in the UK during the week of 5–11 April 1970.\n\nSince the start of the BCS70, eight full sets of data have been collected in 1970, 1975, 1980, 1986, 1996, 1999/2000, 2004/2005 and 2012. The following survey was planned for 2016/2017.\n\nThe first wave in 1970, called the British Births Survey, was conducted by the National Birthday Trust Fund together with the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists in order to collect information to compare with those of the National Child Development Study (NCDS). The following two sweeps in 1975 and 1980, when the study was known as the Child Health and Education Study (CHES), were carried out by the Department of Child Health at Bristol University. The 1986 survey was conducted by the International Centre for Child Studies and called Youthscan which was then taken over for the following surveys by the Social Statistics Research Unit (SSRU), now known as the Centre for Longitudinal Studies (CLS). By 2016 there were 770 papers and books published about the 1970 British Cohort Study.\n\nThe scope of the BCS70 has been broadened in the course of the different surveys. While the focus was on medical aspects at birth, factors such as physical, educational, social and economic development were subsequently taken into account.\n\nMembers of the 1970 birth cohort study created a Facebook page for themselves.\n\nThe primary method of data collection consists of face-to-face interviews (with the parents), self-completion questionnaires and psychological and educational measurements. The sample size included 17,287 babies in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland born in 1970.\n\nThe findings from the BCS70 have generated over 770 publications, a list of which can be found here. One key publication which also includes data of other British Cohort Studies is Elsa Ferri, John Bynner and Michael Wadsworth (eds.)(2003) Changing Britain, Changing Lives: three generations at the turn of the century \n\nThe data and additional study information are available on the website of the Economic and Social Data Service (ESDS). Users will have to register in order to access the download section.\n\n"}
{"id": "29787515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29787515", "title": "2010 housing loan scam in India", "text": "2010 housing loan scam in India\n\nThe 2010 fake housing loan in India was uncovered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in India. CBI arrested eight top-ranking officials of public sector banks and financial institutions, including the LIC Housing Finance CEO Ramchandran Nair, in connection with the scam.\n\nCBI alleged that the officers of various public sector banks and financial institutions received bribes from a private financial services company, which acted as a mediator for corporate loans and other facilities from financial institutions. The bank officials sanctioned large-scale corporate loans to realty developers, overriding mandatory conditions for such approvals along with other irregularities.\n\nThe Central Bureau of investigation arrested number of high official from the several financial institutes in India in connection with the housing scam in November 24, 2010. Smith (2010) stated that findings are shocking where the head officers of several banks and financial institutes are involved in corporate corruption. \nPrecisely, the banks and financial officials were from the public sectors including LIC, Bank of India, Central Bank of India and Punjab National Bank. However, ) stated that since the matter was related to the erosion of funds from the LIC housing and Finance Limited, event was named as the LIC housing and Finance Scandal. \nLamont (2010) cited that the officers from the high rank including the secretary of LIC Investment, general managers, directors and deputy managers of banks were involved in taking out the funds from LIC in appropriate and unethical way.\nSmith (2010) said that these officials were acting as the middleman to provide the funds to the main parties and in return they were having hefty amount of funds from the real investors, insurers and other consumers. \nSmith (2010) regarded this as the distortion of the corporate governance system where the business ethics were neglected to sustain the core business activities of the public sector banking firm. \nMeanwhile, Economic Times stated that the officials were charged with the exploiting of funds, looting, corrupting corporate loan process and manipulating and overriding with the regulations of the LIC Housing and Finance Limited in regard to the approvals and other rules and regulations. \nNonetheless, The loans provided through this manner were estimated to be worth of 85 Billion Dollars, comes as the biggest scandal in the Housing Finance in Asia \nHowever, the stock price took a sharp dip soon after the event. Apparently, LICHF had a good run till September 2010 when it reached Rs.299 and the growth rate undoubtedly, received the appreciation by the investors and other shareholders. The stock recorded no significant changes thereafter but the appearance of corporate scandal shook the stock price chart and the price dip to Rupees 150 by the end of year 2010. \nAt present the stock price is stands at around rupees 190 and gaining its momentum over a period of time but however, Lamont (2010) felt that the combination of factors that happened in the last quarter of FY10 were accountable for the sharp decline in the LIC Housing and Finance Share price. \nReuters stated that LIC Housing and Finance is looking forward to raise the capital to the tune of Rupees 25000 Crores in 2011-12 through debt. Eventually, the technical experts believed that company is developing its core competencies and capabilities and undoubtedly, investors would revive the stock price and current Market changes and company’s development will be seen through the price momentum.\nHowever, experts believed that the Housing and Finance Scandals by the top officials in LIC and other banking institutes will always stand to harm the future potential of such companies but however, the future and the endless opportunities lies in the hand of ultimate investors.\nEventually, Online newspaper, Rediff quoted as saying that most of the brokers are taking up the stock of LICHF after the scam as related to the current project being performed by the company. Namely, IIFL, Aditya Birla, IL&FS are impressed by the current progress by the company and building up the stock ay higher rate.\nHowever, Reuters stated that the Financial Budget introduced by the Indian Planning Commission had slightly adverse effects on the stock of banking, insurance, mortgages and other related sector in the industries. However, the company has been quoted as saying that they would include the margin between 2.8 and 3% in relation to the rising interest rates and their effects on the share price.\nHowever, In response the scam, the Reserve Bank of India and other regulatory and financial bodies attempted to reform the housing finance sector by making several supervision and security measures in this regard. \nEventually, the corporate scam destroyed the interest and confidence of investors and thus, the monetary and regulatory authorities must execute their task in relation to safeguarding the interests of investors.\nApparently, Smith (2010) stated that the Central Bureau of Investigation exposed the stock price dip to 18% of the prevailing market rate after the scam and other banks who were involved saw a decline between 5 and 15% during the time. Hence, it was anticipated that investors believed in the core values and company’s relation with the investors and the stock changes occur in the short span of time however, the stock is futuristic for the long term.\n\nCBI's Economic Offences Wing (EOW) raided offices of the public sector banks and LIC Housing Finance in six cities (Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Jaipur, Kolkata and Jalandhar), to recover incriminating documents.\n\nAccording to CBI, the companies to which the loans in question were given include:\n\nThe CBI EOW also suspected that the companies may have inflated their assets value and balance sheets in order to make themselves eligible for the loans.\n\nAccording to CBI, an employee of the financial services firm had expressed his willingness to turn witness in the case.\n\nMost firms, including BGR Energy and Oberoi Realty denied any role in the scam.\n\nThe scam was discovered shortly after the 2010 Commonwealth Games corruption controversy and the Adarsh Housing Society Mumbai scam. The investors were rattled as news of the arrests broke in Mumbai. The share of the LIC Housing Finance, Central Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, Bank of India as well as other banking and real-estate stock declined.\n\nThe Union finance ministry initially claimed that the case was a bribery incident, and not a large-scale scam. The CBI officials had indicated that the size of the scandal could be worth over Rs 1,000 crore, but the finance ministry officials claimed that the magnitude of the scandal was too insignificant to affect the Indian financial sector.\n\nThe income-tax (IT) department decided to investigate the books of those involved in the scam, after receiving primary reports from CBI.\nHowever, many political analysts believe innocent bankers were implicated in this falsely created scam to defuse attention of the common man against the much larger and serious scams done by the ruling Indian government, notably of corrupt politicians like CWG minister Suresh Kalmadi and ex-telecom minister A Raja.\n\n"}
{"id": "2185939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2185939", "title": "7 July 2005 London bombings", "text": "7 July 2005 London bombings\n\nThe 7 July 2005 London bombings, often referred to as 7/7, were a series of coordinated terrorist suicide attacks in London, United Kingdom, which targeted commuters travelling on the city's public transport system during the morning rush hour.\n\nFour radical Islamic terrorists separately detonated three homemade bombs in quick succession aboard London Underground trains across the city and, later, a fourth on a double-decker bus in Tavistock Square. The train bombings occurred on the Circle line near and at Edgware Road, and on the Piccadilly line near .\n\nFifty-two people of 18 different nationalities, all of whom were UK residents, were killed, and more than 700 were injured, in the attacks, making it Britain's deadliest terrorist incident since the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 near Lockerbie, Scotland, as well as the country's first Islamist suicide attack.\n\nThe explosions were caused by triacetone triperoxide-based IEDs packed into backpacks. The bombings were followed two weeks later by a series of attempted attacks that failed to cause injury or damage. The 7 July attacks occurred the day after London had won its bid to host the 2012 Olympic Games.\n\nAt 8:49 am, three bombs were detonated on board London Underground trains within 50 seconds of each other:\n\n\nIt was originally thought that there had been six, rather than three, explosions on the Underground network. The bus bombing brought the reported total to seven; this was clarified later in the day. The erroneous reporting can be attributed to the fact that the blasts occurred on trains that were between stations, causing wounded passengers to emerge from both stations, giving the impression that there was an incident at each. Police also revised the timings of the tube blasts: initial reports had indicated that they occurred during a period of almost half an hour. This was due to initial confusion at London Underground (LU), where the explosions were originally believed to have been caused by power surges. An early report, made in the minutes after the explosions, involved a person under a train, while another described a derailment (both of which did occur, but only as a result of the explosions). A code amber alert was declared by LU at 09:19, and LU began to cease the network's operations, ordering trains to continue only to the next station and suspending all services.\n\nThe effects of the bombs are understood to have varied due to the differing characteristics of the tunnels in which they occurred:\n\nAlmost one hour after the attacks on the London Underground, a fourth bomb was detonated on the top deck of a number 30 double-decker bus, a Dennis Trident 2 (fleet number 17758, registration LX03 BUF, two years in service at the time) operated by Stagecoach London and travelling its route from Marble Arch to Hackney Wick.\n\nEarlier, the bus had passed through the King's Cross area as it travelled from Hackney Wick to Marble Arch. At its final destination, the bus turned around and started the return route to Hackney Wick. It left Marble Arch at 9 am and arrived at Euston bus station at 9:35 am, where crowds of people had been evacuated from the tube and were boarding buses.\nThe explosion at 9:47 am in Tavistock Square ripped off the roof and destroyed the rear portion of the bus. The blast took place near BMA House, the headquarters of the British Medical Association, on Upper Woburn Place. A number of doctors and medical staff in or near that building were able to provide immediate emergency assistance.\n\nWitnesses reported seeing \"half a bus flying through the air\". BBC Radio 5 Live and \"The Sun\" later reported that two injured bus passengers said that they saw a man exploding in the bus.\n\nThe location of the bomb inside the bus meant the front of the vehicle remained mostly intact. Most of the passengers at the front of the top deck survived, as did those near the front of the lower deck, including the driver, but those at the rear of the bus suffered more serious injuries. The extent of the damage caused to the victims' bodies resulted in a lengthy delay in announcing the death toll from the bombing while the police determined how many bodies were present and whether the bomber was one of them. Several passers-by were also injured by the explosion and surrounding buildings were damaged by debris.\n\nThe bombed bus was subsequently covered with tarpaulin and removed by low-loader for forensic examination at a secure Ministry of Defence site. The vehicle was ultimately returned to Stagecoach and scrapped thereafter on 15 October 2009. A replacement bus, a new Alexander Dennis Enviro400 (fleet number 18500, which has been changed since to 19000, registration LX55 HGC), was named \"Spirit of London\". In October 2012, the \"Spirit of London\" bus was set alight in an arson attack. It was repaired and refurbished at a cost of £60,000 and re-entered service in April 2013. Two 14-year-old girls were charged for the attack.\n\nThe 52 victims were of diverse backgrounds; among them were several foreign-born British nationals and foreign exchange students. The majority of the victims lived in or near London. Because of train delays before the attacks and subsequent transport problems caused by them, several victims died aboard trains and buses they would not normally have taken. Their ages ranged from 20 to 60 years old, with an average age of 34.\n\nAll of the victims were UK residents; 32 of them were British. One victim each came from Afghanistan, France, Ghana, Grenada, India, Iran, Israel, Italy, Kenya, Mauritius, New Zealand, Nigeria, Romania, Sri Lanka, and Turkey. Three victims were Polish nationals, while one victim held dual Australian-Vietnamese citizenship and one held dual American-Vietnamese citizenship.\n\nSeven of the victims were killed at Aldgate, six at Edgware Road, 26 at King's Cross and 13 at Tavistock Square.\n\nThe four suicide bombers were later identified and named as:\n\nThree of the bombers were British-born sons of Pakistani immigrants; Lindsay was a convert born in Jamaica.\n\nCharles Clarke, Home Secretary when the attacks occurred, described the bombers as \"cleanskins\", a term describing them as previously unknown to authorities until they carried out their attacks. On the day of the attacks, all four had travelled to Luton, Bedfordshire, by car, then to London by train. They were recorded on CCTV arriving at King's Cross station at about 08:30 am.\n\nOn 12 July 2005, the BBC reported that the Metropolitan Police Service's anti-terrorism chief Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke said that property belonging to one of the bombers had been found at both the Aldgate and Edgware Road blasts.\n\nTwo of the bombers made videotapes describing their reasons for becoming what they called \"soldiers\". In a videotape broadcast by Al Jazeera on 1 September 2005, Mohammad Sidique Khan, described his motivation. The tape had been edited and mentioned al-Qaeda members Osama Bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahiri and Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, describing them as \"today's heroes\". Khan's tape said:\nThe tape continued:\nOn 6 July 2006, a videotaped statement by Shehzad Tanweer was broadcast by Al-Jazeera. In the video, which may have been edited to include remarks by al-Zawahiri, Tanweer said:\nTanweer argued that the non-Muslims of Britain deserve such attacks because they voted for a government which \"continues to oppress our mothers, children, brothers and sisters in Palestine, Afghanistan, Iraq and Chechnya.\"\n\nInitial reports suggested that a power surge on the Underground power grid had caused explosions in power circuits. This was later ruled out by power suppliers National Grid. Commentators suggested that the explanation had been made because of bomb damage to power lines along the tracks; the rapid series of power failures caused by the explosions (or power being ended by means of switches at the locations to permit evacuation) looked similar, from the point of view of a control room operator, to a cascading series of circuit breaker operations that would result from a major power surge. A couple of hours after the bombings, Home Secretary Charles Clarke confirmed the incidents were terrorist attacks.\n\nAlthough there were security alerts at many locations throughout the United Kingdom, no other terrorist incidents occurred outside central London. Suspicious packages were destroyed in controlled explosions in Edinburgh, Brighton, Coventry, Southampton, Portsmouth, Darlington and Nottingham. Security across the country was increased to the highest alert level.\n\n\"The Times\" reported on 17 July 2005 that police sniper units were following as many as a dozen al-Qaeda suspects in Britain. The covert armed teams were ordered to shoot to kill if surveillance suggested that a terror suspect was carrying a bomb and he refused to surrender if challenged. A member of the Metropolitan Police's Specialist Firearms Command said: \"These units are trained to deal with any eventuality. Since the London bombs they have been deployed to look at certain people.\"\n\nVodafone reported that its mobile telephone network reached capacity at about 10 am on the day of the bombings, and it was forced to initiate emergency procedures to prioritise emergency calls (ACCOLC, the 'access overload control'). Other mobile phone networks also reported failures. The BBC speculated that the telephone system was shut down by security services to prevent the possibility of mobile phones being used to trigger bombs. Although this option was considered, it became clear later that the intermittent unavailability of both mobile and landline telephone systems was due only to excessive usage. ACCOLC was activated only in a radius around Aldgate Tube Station because key emergency personnel did not have ACCOLC-enabled mobile phones. The communications failures during the emergency sparked discussions to improve London's emergency communications system.\nFor most of the day, central London's public transport system was largely out of service following the complete closure of the Underground, the closure of the Zone 1 bus network, and the evacuation of incident sites such as Russell Square. Bus services restarted at 4 pm on 7 July, and most mainline railway stations resumed service soon afterward. River vessels were pressed into service to provide a free alternative to overcrowded trains and buses. Local lifeboats were required to act as safety boats, including the Sheerness lifeboat from the Isle of Sheppey in Kent. Thousands of people chose to walk home or to the nearest Zone 2 bus or railway station. Most of the Underground, apart from the stations affected by the bombs, resumed service the next morning, though some commuters chose to stay at home. Affected stretches were also closed for police investigations.\n\nMuch of the King's Cross railway station was also closed, with the ticket hall and waiting area being used as a makeshift hospital to treat casualties. Although the station reopened later during the day, only suburban rail services were able to use it, with Great North Eastern Railway trains terminating at Peterborough (the service was fully restored on 9 July). King's Cross St Pancras tube station remained available only to Metropolitan line services to facilitate the ongoing recovery and investigation for a week, though Victoria line services were restored on 15 July and the Northern line on 18 July. All the damaged trains were basically removed in stages. St. Pancras station, located next to King's Cross, was shut on the afternoon of the attacks, with all Midland Mainline trains terminating at Leicester, causing disruption to services to Sheffield, Nottingham and Derby.\nOn 25 July, the Hammersmith & City line was reopened from Baker Street to Barking after the affected train was cleared at Aldgate, together with the stretch from Moorgate to Aldgate of the Metropolitan Line. The Hammersmith to Paddington part of the Hammersmith & City line was a shuttle service after the bombings. On 29 July, the District line was reopened from High Street Kensington to Edgware Road, after the affected train was cleared.\n\nOn 2 August the Hammersmith & City line resumed normal service; the Circle line was still suspended, though all Circle line stations are also served by other lines. The Piccadilly line service resumed on 4 August after the affected train was cleared on 16 July, and enhanced maintenance work was done. On 4 August, the Circle line was reopened again.\n\nThere were limited reactions to the attack in the world economy as measured by financial market and exchange rate activity. The value of the British pound decreased 0.89 cents to a 19-month low against the US dollar. The FTSE 100 Index fell by about 200 points during the two hours after the first attack. This was its greatest decrease since the invasion of Iraq, and it triggered the London Stock Exchange's 'Special Measures', restricting panic selling and aimed at ensuring market stability. By the time the market closed it had recovered to only 71.3 points (1.36%) down on the previous day's three-year closing high. Markets in France, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain also closed about 1% down on the day.\n\nUS market indexes increased slightly, partly because the dollar index increased sharply against the pound and the euro. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 31.61 to 10,302.29. The NASDAQ Composite Index increased 7.01 to 2075.66. The S&P 500 increased 2.93 points to 1197.87 after decreasing as much as 1%. Every benchmark value gained 0.3%.\n\nThe market values increased again on 8 July as it became clear that the damage caused by the bombings was not as great as thought initially. By end of trading the market had recovered fully to above its level at start of trading on 7 July. Insurers in the UK tend to reinsure their terrorist liabilities in excess of the first £75,000,000 with Pool Re, a mutual insurer established by the government with major insurers. Pool Re has substantial reserves and newspaper reports indicated that claims would easily be funded.\n\nOn 9 July, the Bank of England, HM Treasury and the Financial Services Authority revealed that they had instigated contingency plans immediately after the attacks to ensure that the UK financial markets could keep trading. This involved the activation of a \"secret chatroom\" on the British government's Financial Sector Continuity website, which allowed the institutions to communicate with the country's banks and market dealers.\n\nContinuous news coverage of the attacks was broadcast throughout 7 July, by both BBC One and ITV1, uninterrupted until 7 p.m. Sky News did not broadcast any advertisements for 24 hours. ITN confirmed later that its coverage on ITV1 was its longest uninterrupted on-air broadcast of its 50-year history. Television coverage was notable for the use of mobile telephone footage sent in by members of the public and live pictures from traffic CCTV cameras.\n\nThe BBC Online website recorded an all-time bandwidth peak of 11 Gb/s at midday on 7 July. BBC News received some 1 billion total accesses throughout the course of the day (including all images, text and HTML), serving some 5.5 terabytes of data. At peak times during the day there were 40,000-page requests per second for the BBC News website. The previous day's announcement of the 2012 Summer Olympics being awarded to London resulted in up to 5 Gb/s. The previous all time maximum for the website followed the announcement of the Michael Jackson verdict, which used 7.2 Gb/s.\n\nOn 12 July it was reported that the British National Party released leaflets showing images of the 'No. 30 bus' after it was destroyed. The slogan, \"Maybe now it's time to start listening to the BNP\" was printed beside the photo. Home Secretary Charles Clarke described it as an attempt by the BNP to \"cynically exploit the current tragic events in London to further their spread of hatred\".\n\nSome media outside the UK complained that successive British governments had been unduly tolerant towards radical Islamist militants, so long as they were involved in activities outside the UK. Britain's alleged reluctance to extradite or prosecute terrorist suspects resulted in London being dubbed \"Londonistan\" by the columnist Melanie Phillips.\n\nEven before the identity of the bombers became known, former Metropolitan Police commissioner Lord Stevens said he believed they were almost certainly born or based in Britain, and would not \"fit the caricature al-Qaeda fanatic from some backward village in Algeria or Afghanistan\". The attacks would have required extensive preparation and prior reconnaissance efforts, and a familiarity with bomb-making and the London transport network as well as access to significant amounts of bomb-making equipment and chemicals.\n\nSome newspaper editorials in Iran blamed the bombing on British or American authorities seeking to further justify the War on Terror, and claimed that the plan that included the bombings also involved increasing harassment of Muslims in Europe.\n\nOn 13 August 2005, quoting police and MI5 sources, \"The Independent\" reported that the bombers acted independently of an al-Qaeda terror mastermind some place abroad.\n\nOn 1 September it was reported that al-Qaeda officially claimed responsibility for the attacks in a videotape broadcast by the Arab television network Al Jazeera. However, an official inquiry by the British government reported that the tape claiming responsibility had been edited after the attacks, and that the bombers did not have direct assistance from al-Qaeda. Zabi uk-Taifi, an al-Qaeda commander arrested in Pakistan in January 2009, may have had connections to the bombings, according to Pakistani intelligence sources. More recently, documents found by German authorities on a terrorist suspect arrested in Berlin in May 2011 have suggested that Rashid Rauf, a British al Qaeda operative, played a key role in planning the attacks.\n\nA second claim of responsibility was posted on the Internet by another al-Qaeda-linked group, Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades. The group had, however, previously falsely claimed responsibility for events that were the result of technical problems, such as the 2003 London blackout and the US Northeast blackout of 2003.\n\nA survey of 500 British Muslims undertaken by Channel 4 News in 2007 found that 24% believed the four bombers blamed for the attacks did not perform them.\n\nThere have been various conspiracy theories proposed about the bombings, including the suggestion that the bombers were 'patsies', based on claims about timings of the trains and the train from Luton, supposed explosions underneath the carriages, and allegations of the faking of the one time-stamped and dated photograph of the bombers at Luton station. Claims made by one theorist in the Internet video \"7/7 Ripple Effect\" were examined by the BBC documentary series \"The Conspiracy Files\", in an episode titled \"7/7\" first broadcast on 30 June 2009, which debunked many of the video's claims.\n\nOn the day of the bombings Peter Power of Visor Consultants gave interviews on BBC Radio 5 Live and ITV saying that he was working on a crisis management simulation drill, in the City of London, \"based on simultaneous bombs going off precisely at the railway stations where it happened this morning\", when he heard that an attack was going on in real life. He described this as a coincidence. He also gave an interview to the \"Manchester Evening News\" where he spoke of \"an exercise involving mock broadcasts when it happened for real\". After a few days he dismissed it as a \"spooky coincidence\" on Canadian TV.\n\nInitially, there was much confused information from police sources as to the origin, method, and even timings of the explosions. Forensic examiners had thought initially that military-grade plastic explosives were used, and, as the blasts were thought to have been simultaneous, that synchronised timed detonators were employed. This hypothesis changed as more information became available. Home-made organic peroxide-based devices were used, according to a May 2006 report from the British government's Intelligence and Security Committee. The explosive was triacetone triperoxide.\n\n56 people, including the four suicide bombers, were killed by the attacks and about 700 were injured, of whom about 100 were hospitalised for at least one night. The incident was the deadliest single act of terrorism in the United Kingdom since the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, which crashed on Lockerbie and killed 270 people, and the deadliest bombing in London since the Second World War.\n\nPolice examined about 2,500 items of CCTV footage and forensic evidence from the scenes of the attacks. The bombs were probably placed on the floors of the trains and bus. Investigators identified four men who they alleged had been the suicide bombers. This made the bombings the first ever suicide attack in the British Isles.\n\nVincent Cannistraro, former head of the Central Intelligence Agency's anti-terrorism centre, told \"The Guardian\" that \"two unexploded bombs\" were recovered as well as \"mechanical timing devices\"; this claim was explicitly rejected by London's Metropolitan Police Service.\n\nWest Yorkshire Police raided six properties in the Leeds area on 12 July: two houses in Beeston, two in Thornhill, one in Holbeck and one in Alexandra Grove in Hyde Park, Leeds. One man was arrested. Officers also raided a residential property on Northern Road in the Buckinghamshire town of Aylesbury on 13 July.\n\nThe police service say a significant amount of explosive material was found in the Leeds raids and a controlled explosion was carried out at one of the properties. Explosives were also found in the vehicle associated with one of the bombers, Shehzad Tanweer, at Luton railway station and subjected to controlled explosion.\n\nThere was speculation about a possible association between the bombers and another alleged Islamist cell in Luton which was ended during August 2004. The Luton group was uncovered after Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan was arrested in Lahore, Pakistan. His laptop computer was said to contain plans for tube attacks in London, as well as attacks on financial buildings in New York City and Washington, D.C. The group was subject to surveillance but on 2 August 2004 \"The New York Times\" published Khan's name, citing Pakistani sources. The news leak forced police in Britain and Canada to make arrests before their investigations were complete. The US government later said they had given the name to some journalists as \"background information\", for which Tom Ridge, the United States Secretary of Homeland Security, apologised.\n\nWhen the Luton cell was ended, one of the London bombers, Mohammad Sidique Khan (no known relation), was scrutinised briefly by MI5 who determined that he was not a likely threat and he was not surveilled.\n\nOn 22 March 2007, three men were arrested in connection with the bombings. Two were arrested at 1 pm at Manchester Airport, attempting to board a flight bound for Pakistan that afternoon. They were apprehended by undercover officers who had been following the men as part of a surveillance operation. They had not intended to arrest the men that day, but believed they could not risk letting the suspects leave the country. A third man was arrested in the Beeston area of Leeds at an address on the street where one of the suicide bombers had lived before the attacks.\n\nOn 9 May 2007 police made four further arrests, three in Yorkshire and one in Selly Oak, Birmingham. The widow of the presumed ringleader Mohammed Sidique Khan, was among those arrested for \"commissioning, preparing or instigating acts of terrorism\".\n\nThree of those arrested, including Khan's widow, were released on 15 May. The fourth, Khalid Khaliq, an unemployed single father of three, was charged on 17 July 2007 with possessing an al-Qaeda training manual, but the charge was not related to the 2005 London attacks. Conviction for possession of a document containing information likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism carried a maximum ten-year jail sentence.\n\nAbdullah el-Faisal was deported to Jamaica, his country of origin, from Britain on 25 May 2006 after reaching the parole date in his prison sentence. He was found guilty of three charges of soliciting the murder of Jews, Americans and Hindus and two charges of using threatening words to incite racial hatred in 2003 and, despite an appeal, was sentenced to seven years imprisonment. In 2006 John Reid alleged to MPs that el-Faisal had influenced Jamaican-born Briton Germaine Lindsay into participating in the 7/7 bombings.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported on 3 May 2007 that police had investigated Mohammad Sidique Khan twice during 2005. The newspaper said it \"learned that on 27 January 2005, police took a statement from the manager of a garage in Leeds which had loaned Khan a courtesy car while his vehicle was being repaired.\" It also said that \"on the afternoon of 3 February an officer from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorism branch carried out inquiries with the company which had insured a car in which Khan was seen driving almost a year earlier\". Nothing about these inquiries appeared in the report by Parliament's intelligence and security committee after it investigated the 7 July attacks. Scotland Yard described the 2005 inquiries as \"routine\", while security sources said they were related to the fertiliser bomb plot.\n\nWhile no warnings before 7 July bombings have been documented officially or acknowledged, the following are sometimes quoted as indications either of the events to come or of some foreknowledge.\n\n\"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that radical imam Anwar al-Awlaki had inspired the bombers. The bombers transcribed lectures of al-Awlaki while plotting the bombings. His materials were found in the possession of accused accomplices of the suicide bombers. Al-Awlaki was killed by a US drone attack in 2011.\n\nIn 2006, the government refused to hold a public inquiry, stating that \"it would be a ludicrous diversion\". Prime Minister Tony Blair said an independent inquiry would \"undermine support\" for MI5, while the leader of the opposition, David Cameron, said only a full inquiry would \"get to the truth\". In reaction to revelations about the extent of security service investigations into the bombers prior to the attack, the Shadow Home Secretary, David Davis, said: \"It is becoming more and more clear that the story presented to the public and Parliament is at odds with the facts.\" \n\nThe decision to not hold an independent public inquest was later reversed and in October 2010 an independent coroner's inquest of the bombings began. Lady Justice Hallett was appointed to hear the inquest, which would consider how each victim died and whether MI5, if it had worked better, could have prevented the attack, and also the emergency service response.\n\nAfter seven months of evidence and deliberation, the verdict of the inquiry was released and read in the Houses of Parliament on 9 May 2011. It determined that the 52 victims had been unlawfully killed; their deaths could not have been prevented, and they would probably have died \"whatever time the emergency services reached and rescued them\". Hallett concluded that MI5 had not made every possible improvement since the attacks but that it was not \"right or fair\" to say more attention should have been paid to ringleader Mohammad Sidique Khan prior to 7 July. She also decided that there should be no public inquiry.\n\nThe report provided nine recommendations to various bodies:\n\nIt was reported in July 2011 that relatives of some of the victims of the bombings may have had their telephones accessed by the \"News of the World\" in the aftermath of the attacks. The revelations added to an existing controversy over phone hacking by the tabloid newspaper.\n\nThe fathers of two victims, one in the Edgware Road blast and another at Russell Square, told the BBC that police officers investigating the alleged hacking had warned them that their contact details were found on a target list, while a former firefighter who helped injured passengers escape from Edgware Road also said he had been contacted by police who were looking into the hacking allegations. A number of survivors from the bombed trains also revealed that police had warned them their phones may have been accessed and their messages intercepted, and in some cases officers advised them to change security codes and PINs.\n\nSince the bombings, the United Kingdom and other nations have honoured the victims in several ways. Most of these memorials have included moments of silence, candlelit vigils, and the laying of flowers at the attack sites. Foreign leaders have also remembered the dead by ordering their flags to be flown at half-mast, signing books of condolences at embassies of the UK, and issuing messages of support and condolences to the British people.\n\nThe government ordered the Union Flag to be flown at half-mast on 8 July. The following day, the Bishop of London led prayers for the victims during a service paying tribute to the role of women during the Second World War. A vigil, called by the Stop the War Coalition, Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament and Muslim Association of Britain, was held from 5 pm, at Friends Meeting House on Euston Road.\n\nA two-minute silence was held on 14 July 2005 throughout Europe. Thousands attended a vigil at 6 pm on Trafalgar Square. After an initial silence there was a series of speakers for two hours. A memorial service was held at St Paul's Cathedral on 1 November 2005. To mark the first anniversary of the attack, a two-minute silence was observed at midday across the country.\n\nA permanent memorial was unveiled in 2009 by Prince Charles in Hyde Park to mark the fourth anniversary of the bombings. On the eve of the ninth anniversary of the attacks in 2014 the memorial was defaced with messages including \"Blair lied, thousands died\". The graffiti was removed within hours.\n\nDuring the opening ceremony of the 2012 Olympic Games in London a minute's silence was held to commemorate those killed in the attacks.\n\nA memorial service was held in St. Paul's Cathedral on 7 July 2015, to mark the 10th anniversary of the bombings. This was broadcast on BBC One.\n\nUS President George W. Bush visited the British embassy the day after the bombings, upon his return from the G8 summit in Scotland, and signed a book of condolence. In Washington, D.C., the US Army band played \"God Save the Queen\" (the British national anthem, the melody of which is also used in an American patriotic hymn, \"My Country, 'Tis of Thee\"), a suggestion that US Army veteran John Miska made to Vice Chief of Staff General Cody, outside the British embassy in the city. A similar tribute had been made by the Queen in the days following the September 11 attacks in 2001 where the Star Spangled Banner played at Buckingham Palace's Changing the Guard. On 12 July, a Detroit Symphony Orchestra brass ensemble played the British national anthem during the pre-game festivities of the Major League Baseball All-Star Game at Comerica Park in Detroit.\n\nFlags were ordered to fly at half-mast across Australia, New Zealand and Canada. The Union Flag was raised to half-mast alongside the Flag of Australia on Sydney Harbour Bridge as a show of \"sympathy between nations\".\n\nMoments of silence were observed in the European Parliament, the Polish parliament and by the Irish parliament on 14 July. The British national anthem was played at the changing of the royal guard at Plaza de Oriente in Madrid in memorial to the victims of the attacks. The ceremony was attended by the British ambassador to Spain and members of the Spanish Royal Family. After the 2004 Madrid train bombings, the UK had hosted a similar ceremony at Buckingham Palace.\n\nMohammed Rehman and Sana Ahmed Khan were sentenced to life imprisonment on 29 December 2015 for preparing an act of terrorism, planning to coincide with the tenth anniversary of the 7/7 attacks. They had 10 kg of urea nitrate. Rehman called himself the 'silent bomber' and asked his Twitter followers to choose between the Westfield Shopping Centre or the London Underground for the planned suicide bomb.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52884364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52884364", "title": "Architectural League Emerging Voices", "text": "Architectural League Emerging Voices\n\nEmerging Voices is an invited, annual competition organized by the Architectural League of New York for North American firms and individuals with distinct design voices and significant bodies of realized work. \n"}
{"id": "300447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300447", "title": "Art name", "text": "Art name\n\nA pseudonym or pen name, also known by its native names hao (in China) (), gō (in Japan) and ho (in Korea), is a professional name used by East Asian artists. The word and the concept originated in China, then became popular in other East Asian countries (especially in Japan, Korea, Vietnam and the former Kingdom of Ryukyu).\n\nIn some cases, artists adopted different pseudonyms at different stages of their career, usually to mark significant changes in their life. Extreme practitioners of this tendency were Tang Yin of the Ming dynasty, who had more than ten \"hao\" and Hokusai of Japan, who in the period 1798 to 1806 alone used no fewer than six.\n\nIn Chinese culture, the \"hào\" (Traditional 號; Simplified 号) originally refers to any name a person gives oneself, as opposed to a birth name (which is given by the parents or other elders). The use of this name as a nom de plume or artistic name, however, appears to have begun only during the Six Dynasties period, with Tao Yuanming and Ge Hong among the first literati to have given themselves \"hào\". \n\nArt names came into vogue during the Tang dynasty, during which time they could either be coined by the person themself, or given to them as a name by others. Most \"hào\" can be placed within a few categories: \n\n\nBy the Song Dynasty, the majority of literati called each other by their art names, which in turn often changed; this situation continued up to the 20th century.\n\nIn early modern Japan, a woodblock print artist's first \"gō\" was usually given to them by the head of the school (a group of artists and apprentices, with a senior as master of the school) in which they initially studied; this \"gō\" usually included one of the characters of the master's \"gō\". For example, one of Hokusai's earliest pseudonyms was Shunrō; his master Katsukawa Shunshō having granted him the character 'shun' from his own name.\n\nOne can often trace the relationship among artists with this, especially in later years, when it seems to have been fairly (although not uniformly) systematic (particularly in the Utagawa school) that the first character of the pupil's \"gō\" was the last of the master's \"gō\".\n\nThus, an artist named Toyoharu had a student named Toyohiro, who, in turn, had as a pupil the famous landscape artist Hiroshige.\n\nAnother figure who studied under Toyoharu was the principal head of the Utagawa school, Toyokuni. Toyokuni had pupils named Kunisada and Kuniyoshi. Kuniyoshi, in turn, had as a student Yoshitoshi, whose pupils included Toshikata.\n\nIn some schools, in particular the main Utagawa school, the \"gō\" of the most senior member was adopted when the master died and the chief pupil assumed his position. Perhaps as a sign of respect, artists might take the \"gō\" of a previous artist. This makes attribution difficult. The censors' seal helps determine a particular print's date. Style also is significant. For example, Kunisada, once he changed his \"gō\" to Toyokuni, initiated the practice of signing prints with a signature in the elongated oval \"toshidama\" ('New Year's Jewel') seal of the Utagawa school, an unusual cartouche with the zig-zag in the upper right-hand corner. His successors continued this practice.\n\nIn modern scholarship on the subject, a Roman numeral identifies an artist in the sequence of artists using a \"gō\". Thus, Kunisada I is also known as Toyokuni III, since he was the third artist to use that \"gō\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2372772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2372772", "title": "Battle of Miani", "text": "Battle of Miani\n\nThe Battle of Miani (or Battle of Meeanee) was a battle between forces of the Bombay Army of the British East India company, under Charles Napier and the Baluch army of Talpur Amirs of Sindh, led by Mir Nasir Khan Talpur. The Battle took place on 17 February 1843 at Miani, Sindh, in what is now Pakistan. This battle eventually led to the capture of parts of Sindh region, first territorial possession by British East India company in what is the modern-day country of Pakistan.\n\nAccording to Nadeem Wagan (a Sindh writer), the primary causes of the battle were the British East India company's desire to expand their possession in south Asia and the British General Charles Napier's ambitions. The General had held previous position as Governor of the Greek island of Kefalonia with very limited scope for glory. The Talpur kingdom of Sindh was inefficiently and loosely governed by the Amirs and a relatively easy target as opposed to the Sikh kingdom of the Punjab. Napier moved his army aggressively from the East India Company's Bombay presidency area and entered the Sindh border. Negotiations ensued between the Talpur Amir in Hyderabad and Napier. An agreement was reached after the Amir gave significant concessions. Napier then started to move his army back towards Bombay and the Amir disbanded his army that had been mobilised. However, Napier was firmly determined in conquering Sindh and Hyderabad. Whilst moving towards Bombay and giving the impression of keeping the agreement that had been reached, he suddenly turned back towards Hyderabad on the pretext of hostile intentions by the Amir and marched with great speed towards the capital.\nIn the book Janat ul Sindh, Rahimdad Khan Molai Shedai has written that, \"On 16 February 1843 Sir Charles Napier came to Matiari from Hala.He was commanding 2800 soldiers with 12 canonns.On the other side Balouch army was consisted of 2200 soldiers with 15 cannons.Army of Sindh began to gather at the bank of Phuleli near Miani but there was no sufficient arrangements for providing ammunition to the army. English army was consisted of soldiers belonging to Bombay,Pune and Madras.Charles Napier was commander and his subordinates were captain John Jackab, captain Hutt, major Jackson, lieutenant Weddington, Major Penny Father, lieutenant Mac Merdo (Aide de camp of Napier), Major Wylie, Captain Tucker,Lieutinant Colonel Patel, Major Stori, captain Thomas, Major Machozison (Secretary of Napier), Capt. Wemus, Capt. Cookson,lieutenant Marston,Capt. Garrett were his subordinates. The Talpur army was composed of Shahdadani, Chakrani, and Khanani Talpurs. Bijrani and Muhammadani Talpurs did not join. Mir Naseer had sent message to Malak Ibrahim Khan,the Sardar of Kalmati tribe to attack upon English army with the help of Nomri and Jokhiya tribes.The Kalmati Sardar left with band of 400 warriors but Jam Khan,Sardar of Jokhiya and Nomri tribes did not join him hence Ibrahim Khan went back to home. Mankani tribe also did not join. However Balochi tribes Nizamani, Bagrani, Mari, Jamali, Chang, Gopang, Jatoi, Qarai, Rind, Lashari, Bhurgri, and Chuulgri joined the army. In addition to Balouch tribes Khokhar, Khatiyan, Soomra, Khaskhali, and many others gathered under the banner of Sindh. Sadaat of Sindh also joined the army with fervor of Jihad. Mir Jan Muhammad Khanani was commander of army. His subordinates were Mir Ghulam Shah Shahwani, Syed Abdullah, Ibrahim Khan, Nawab Ahmed Khan Lighari, Ghulam Muhammad Lighari, Bakhtiyar Khan, Bahawal Khan Rind, Moro Khan Chang and Syed Fateh Muhammad Shah Lakiyari, who were warlords. Mir Ghulam Shah was Vice Commander. Hosh Muhammad Qambrani negro, Mashedi Irani and Mr Hawel were in charge of Talpur artillery. The army of Meers' was seven times larger than English army but their weapons were imperfect as compare to the weapons of the rivals. English army was well trained but Talpur army was untrained and lacking discipline. The cannons of Meers' were three feet long and diameter of their muzzles was three inches. Their guns were breech-loaders of old times. English soldiers, including local soldiers, were active and clever because of discipline having support of medical staff for providing first aid. Their army was supported by traveling band for providing ammunition and for digging tranches. Both armies were at the distance of 100 yards from each other. Mir Naseer Khan was wearing armor. Mir Rustam Khan, Mir Hussain Ali Khan and Mir Shahdad Khan were at his right and left sides. Both banks of Phuleli canal were covered by dense bushes which could be used for defense of the army. By that time Phuleli canal was dry and very wide. The chief of Chandia tribe was at some distance with 10000 warriors waiting and alert for the help of English army.On 17 February 1843 at early morning battle started\".\n\nThe Baluch were forced to quickly re-mobilise their army but could not do so effectively as the army was mostly raised on a voluntary basis in times of war and most of the Baluch had returned home. Nevertheless, an army of around 8,000 - mostly cavalry - was raised and assembled at the battle ground of Miani. Disastrously for the Talpur Amirs another 8,000 troops under Mir Sher Muhammad Talpur (later known as \"Sher-e-Sindh\" or \"Lion of Sindh\") failed to reach the battle ground in time. Napier had already successfully isolated the Amir of Khairpur (thereafter known as the great traitor by the Sindhi) by bribery and title. Thus the Baluchi army assembled at Miani represented approximately a third of the potential military strength in Sindh. Although the East India Company later gave its troops numbered in the battle as around 2,800, contemporary Talpur records indicated the armies were approximately equal in numbers (around 8–10 thousand each) with the British having around 2,500 European officers and soldiers and the balance being Indian sepoys.\n\nThe difference in military technology and tactics was enormous. The East India Company's army was led by professionally trained British officers and troops and the Indian Sepoys were also well trained and disciplined. They were armed with smoothbore percussion or flintlock Brown Bess muskets, which were accurate to 50–100 yards, and supported by modern artillery. In contrast, the Baluchi army consisted mostly of cavalry armed with muskets, spears and swords and some old artillery pieces acquired from Persia. The tactic was the favoured cavalry charge. Contemporary records indicate that the Baluchi army's morale was very high with the battle slogan being \"we will die but not give up Sindh\". Indeed, the Baluchis died in thousands, in 4–5 hours of carnage, the Baluchi horsemen charged in wave after wave and was mostly cut down long before they could reach British lines by rifle and artillery fire. When they did eventually reach British lines and, according to Napier himself in his book on the battle (\"Conquest of Sindh\"), he had to ride amongst his officers and troops to stop them from falling back in disarray in the face of the ferocity of the Baluch who had reached the British lines. Of the Baluch army of 8,000 at Miani, around 6 thousand Baluch were killed. Reliable sources put the British casualties as 256 as kept by the East India company's paymasters while according to the Baluch, the Company's army suffered 3,000 dead (although Napier gives a much lower casualty figure as he does for his total force). In famous book on history of Sindh 'Jannat ul Sindh' Molai Shedai writes that.\"At the time of start of war at early morning at first one band of English army moved a head into the battle feild so that the hidden part of Talpur army might come out of the bushes\".\"At beginning Mir Jan Muhammad fought with stretegy and Charles Napier was sure of defeat. English cavalry bands attacked from right and left sides and Mir Jan Muhammad was martyred and Mir Ghulam Shah took over the command.John Jackab leading 1000 cavalry attacked through the bed of Phuleli canal and at once moved back with deception and Talpur army thought it retreat and their lines stood broken and they followed the cavalry and reached across the banks of Phuleli where English artillery was staged at hidden place and English army opened the artillery upon them continuously for three hours .One cannonball hit against the ammunition of Talpur army which was completely destroyed.After noon time one band of Ligharis was retreated then Thorha then Bahawal Khan ran from battlefield who was followed by Nawab Ahmed Lighari who also snatched the flag from Soomar before leaving the battlefield. Mir Naseer and Shahdad wanted to fight till last breath but their army was fleeing from battlefield .About 4000 were among them who left away without any order.One cannonball fall nearby and Suleman, personal servant of the Meer was martyred.It appeared that army of Meers was under siege. Chang, Gopang, Mari and Nizamani were still fighting in battlefield. English army took control of the artillery of Meers due to support of one of in charge of the artillery who was Mr Hawel.At one moment Charles Napier came under attack but was saved by Lieuftenant Marston.At last moments Mir Hussain Ali Khan also ran away from battlefield. Looking to the situation Mir Naseer Khan also left the battlefield along with 1200 cavalry and came at the Fort of Hyderabad.During 3 hours face to face battle only 27 soldiers of English Army were died and became injured. From officers Major Tezdil, Major Jackson, Captain Maddy, Captain Tieve, Captain Cookson, Lieuftenant Wood were died and Lieutenant Penny Father, Major Welly, Captain Tucker, Captain Convey, Lieuftenant Harding and Feri became injured. About 20 British officers died and 4 officers from infantry were amongst them. About 5000 from Talpurs'army died. Mir Jan Muhammad Khan,Talha khan Nizamani, Ghulam Hussain khan Nizamani, Abdullah Khan, Ali Bungash,Gohar Khan Hajizai, Naseer Khan Chang,Mir Ghulam Shah,Mir Mubarak Khan Bihrani and others were among them. During 3 hours battle only one Irish soldier could stab bayonet at the chest of one Balouch soldier who was also killed by the other with sword as dead bodies of the both were found together. Captain Postins in his book 'Personal observation of Sindh' while mentioning about battle of Miani wrote that' People of Sindh fought against the English army like persons who may fight for something which is more dearer to them than their lives'.\n\nLater, on March 24, 1843, Mir Sher Muhammad Khan Talpur, reached Hyderabad with his private army of around 8,000 and tried to liberate Sindh from the occupation of the British East India Company forces. He sent Napier a message giving the General 48 hours to vacate the Hyderabad Fort. Napier who was firmly entrenched in Hyderabad Fort and had recently been reinforced from Bombay replied by firing his artillery from the Fort walls. Mir Sher Muhammad Khan Talpur was subsequently defeated in the Battle of Dubba and thereafter he went to Punjab to seek help from Maharaja Ranjeet Singh, the Sikh ruler of the Punjab. The Maharaja extended hospitality but declined to become involved. Sher Muhammad Khan then went to the Khan of Kalat to seek assistance, but the Khanate of Kalat had already suffered a defeat by the British in 1838 and was in no position to help. Eventually after 10 years, Mir Sher Muhammad returned to Sindh and surrendered to the British and the East India Company gave him amnesty.\n\nThe amirs of Hyderabad suffered great loss, their fort was plundered, and amirs themselves were exiled to Andaman Islands – never to see Sindh again. Napier's post-conquest occupation of Sindh was absolute. Fifteen years later when the Indian Mutiny or 'War of Independence' in 1857 broke out, no shots were fired in Sindh. His manipulations of the history of his interactions with the Talpur dynasty and the history of the battle were likewise absolute and designed to glorify his position. However, debates that took place in the British Parliament for the post-conquest show the degree of concern that existed in UK on the action he had taken in Sindh.\n\nThe battle honours of \"Meeanee\" and \"Hyderabad\" are shared by the 22nd (Cheshire) Regiment and a number of Indian regiments, whereas that of \"Scinde\" is borne by the Cheshire Regiment alone.\n\nFive thousand Sindhis were killed or wounded while fighting the British. The fallen Amirs of Sindh consisted of Mir Nasir Khan Talpur, his nephews Mir Shadad Khan Talpur, Mir Hussein Ali Khan Talpur, Mir Sher Muhammad Talpur, the Subedar of Hyderabad, Mir Rustam Khan Talpur, Nasir Talpur, Wali Mohammad Khan Talpur of Khairpur. Others such as Mir Ali Murad Khan Talpur was taken aboard the sloop and exiled to Burma.\n\nA British journal said of the captive Sindhi Amirs: \"The Amirs as being the prisoners of the state are maintained in strict seclution; they are described as Broken-Hearted and Miserable men, maintaining much of the dignity of fallen greatness, and without any querulous or angry complainngs at this unalleviable source of sorrow, refusing to be comforted\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38942815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38942815", "title": "Bedspace apartment", "text": "Bedspace apartment\n\nA bedspace apartment (), also called cage home (), coffin cubicle, or coffin home, is a type of residence that is only large enough for one bunk bed surrounded by a metal cage. In 2007, there were approximately 53,200 people living in cage homes. This type of residence originated in Hong Kong, and primarily exists in older urban districts such as Sham Shui Po, Mong Kok, To Kwa Wan, and Tai Kok Tsui. \n\nGenerally, the residents are low-income people, including the elderly, drug addicts, and some low-skilled or unskilled labourers. Reports from the Legislative Council of Hong Kong found that the people who lived in cage homes were those who did not qualify for social welfare, or subsidised rent or electricity. Most of the residents are male. Safety and other living conditions in bedspace apartments homes are often poor.\n\nWhile often called cage homes, they are categorised as \"bedspace apartments\" by the Hong Kong Government. According to the Bedspace Apartment Ordinance, the term \"bedspace apartment\" refers to a house that contains 12 or more people who rent bedspaces individually. It is legal to run these bedspace apartments, but landlords must first apply for a special license.\n\nBedspace apartments started to appear more commonly during the 1950s and 60s. During the Chinese Civil War, a large number of Chinese mainlanders migrated to Hong Kong, and this, along with a surge in birth rates due to the prospering economy, caused the population to dramatically increase from 2,015,300 in 1951 to 3,129,648 in 1961. In an attempt to cope with the housing demand, the Hong Kong Government started to build several public housing estates. However, the government could not handle the extra burden brought by the Chinese migrant workers, and there were no housing or labour protection policies in place at that time. Cage homes thus became popular among migrant workers, as the rental fee was low.\n\nToday, people still live in cage homes because the Hong Kong government has instituted a single-person scoring system for public housing applications and lowered public housing quotas. In addition, according to the Hong Kong Basic Law, new immigrants must wait 7 years to become Hong Kong permanent residents. As such, poor immigrants are often forced to live in bedspace apartments until they receive a Hong Kong ID card.\n\nCage hotels, a form of single room occupancy, were common in Chicago at the turn of the 20th century; an estimated 40,000 to 60,000 people lived in them during the winter. \n\nA 1958 survey by Christopher Jencks found that homeless men preferred cage hotels over shelters for reasons of privacy and security.\n\nA similar preference for cage hotels over shelters was reported in turn of the century New York City, where single working men ranked their housing preference in the following order: \n\n\"Regulatory efforts to combat low-cost 'cage hotels,' ... [has been] a driver of the expansion of the homeless population in US cities\", according to Jencks.\n\nBedspace apartments are usually located inside old buildings in urban areas. In the apartment flats, the whole living space is divided into multiple sections. Each section has two to three layers of beds, which are subdivided with metal cages. With no doors, residents have to keep all of their personal belongings inside the confined space. Each bedspace is very narrow, so an adult can barely lie down, stand, or sit straight. Since residents do not have room for any extra personal belongings inside the cage home, such a bedspace is deemed to be a place for sleeping only. Cage homes are dim, cramped, and hot. The temperature can reach 34 degrees Celsius (93 degrees Fahrenheit). Residents share the toilets and kitchen, which are notoriously smelly, dirty, and very simple.\n\nCage homes also lack privacy because the cages are so close to each other. Even though some modern cage homes have partitions to separate different sections, these typically consist of only a thin piece of wood or paper board.\n\nCage homes generally have poor safety, due to their location within old buildings and inadequate fire protection.\n\nIn 1998, the government set up the Bedspace Apartment Ordinance (Section 18: Precautions for Safety and Sanitation) to regulate fire safety standards and requirements. Nevertheless, licensed cage homes are still located in worn-out buildings which lack smoke detectors, automatic sprinkler systems and fire alarm systems. Worse still, many residents share only one electrical outlet. Electric shocks and leakage frequently occur since the government does not conduct regular inspections to ensure that the various safety measures are up to standard.\n\nIn addition, the Bedspace Apartment Ordinance does not regulate unlicensed cage home apartments or other similar residences that do not fulfill the requirements of being a \"bedspace apartment.\" Thus, these unlicensed cage home apartments do not have sufficient safety equipment.\n\nBecause residents rarely clean the open areas, cage homes are often found to have flies, mosquitoes, mice, and cockroaches. As such, the filthy environment becomes a breeding ground for bacteria, viruses, and diseases. Metal cages are typically made of iron, which rusts easily.\n\nSince cage homes are often located within older urban districts, they are usually extremely small. Such space is only suitable for people to take a rest, thus preventing any additional recreational activities. It is observed that an average of 6 to 12 people typically share a cage home apartment. Under the confined and crowded space, cage homes often have poor ventilation systems. Residents are highly susceptible to respiratory illness. In addition, residents (especially the elderly and disabled) find it difficult to evacuate the building in an emergency.\n\nPeople who live in cage homes are often victims of destitution. The effect of living in such dilapidated, isolated, and cramped quarters can lead to a higher incidence of mental illness. Some elderly people have described their lives in cage homes as \"waiting for death.\"\n\nAccording to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights proposed by the United Nations, cage homes violate the right to housing.\n\nMany of Hong Kong's citizens and social organisations have urged the government to construct more public housing estates to replace cage homes for low-income people. The government insists that cage homes should not be eradicated, as there is such a large demand for small apartments in the community.\n\nThe 1992 film \"Cageman\", directed by Jacob Cheung, demonstrates the harsh living conditions in cage homes and sheds light on the difficulties faced by residents.\n\nThe \"Daily Mail\" described the cage home as the \"dark side\" of the otherwise wealthy Hong Kong.\n\nCNN has also reported and commented on the living environment of cage homes. It described cage homes as the \"size of a shoe box,\" and reported that it was difficult for the rest of the world to believe that such a large number of people are living in such poor accommodations in a so-called wealthy city.\n\nThe Hong Kong Legislative Council published a report about the problem of cage homes in 2008. The report offered some solutions to the problems of cage homes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1283671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1283671", "title": "Blobject", "text": "Blobject\n\nA blobject is a design product, often a household object, distinguished by smooth flowing curves, bright colors, and an absence of sharp edges. The word is generally held to be a portmanteau, a contraction of \"blob\" and \"object.\"\n\nThe origin of the term is disputed, but it is often attributed to either the designer-author Steven Skov Holt or the designer Karim Rashid. Author and design journalist Phil Patton attributed the word to Holt in 1993 in Esquire magazine. Holt has defined a blobject as, most often, a colorful, mass-produced, plastic-based, emotionally engaging consumer product with a curvilinear, flowing shape. This fluid and curvaceous form is the blobject's most distinctive feature. Rashid, the contemporary designer who wrote the book \"I want to Change the World,\" was an early leader in creating blobjects and has become one of the most celebrated designers of his generation.\n\nBlobjects can also be found in most areas of contemporary visual culture. \nCommon materials used in fabricating blobjects are plastic (especially polycarbonate, polypropylene, or polyethylene), metal, and rubber, with the aim being to give a more organic and animate feel. \n\nThe blobject trend has largely been driven by advances in computer-aided design, information visualization, rapid prototyping, materials, and injection molding. These technologies have given designers the chance to use new shapes and to explore transparency and translucency without significant extra production costs.\n\nMore recently, in 2004, author Bruce Sterling used the word in the title of his keynote speech at Siggraph. In his speech titled, \"When Blobjects Rule the Earth\", Sterling speculated on the future of graphic simulation when practical differences no longer exist between computer generated models and physically manufactured objects.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46529006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46529006", "title": "Circassians in Iran", "text": "Circassians in Iran\n\nThe Circassians in Iran (East Circassian and West Circassian: Адыгэхэр Къажэрей, \"Adyghexer Kŭazhéreĭ\"; ) are an ethnic minority in Iran. Circassians in Iran differ somewhat from other Circassians in diaspora in that most in the former stem from the Safavid and Qajar era, although a number migrated as muhajirs in the late 19th century as well. The Circassians in Iran were very influential during periods in the last few centuries. The vast majority of them have assimilated to Persian language, and no sizeable number speaks their native Circassian languages anymore. Once a very large minority in Iran, nowadays due to being heavily assimilated over the course of time and the lack of censuses based on ethnicity, population estimates vary significantly. They are, after the Georgians, the largest Caucasus-derived group in the nation.\n\nIn Persian, the word \"Cherkes\" () is sometimes applied generally to Caucasian peoples living beyond Derbent in Dagestan, which was the northernmost principal city of Iran prior to its ceding to Russia in the first half of the 19th century following the Treaty of Gulistan.\n\nCircassians in Iran have a long history. To a certain good extent, they shared the same role as their brethren who lived in neighbouring Ottoman Turkey; many were importees, deportees, slaves, but also made up many of the notable noble families in the empire, while many others were kingmakers, military commanders, soldiers, craftsmen, peasants, while they also composed many of the kings' wives and women in the harem. Under the various kings of the Safavid and Qajar dynasty, many Circassians would eventually happen to live in Iran.\n\nThe first Circassian presence in Iran dates to the early Safavid era, during which Shaykh Junayd raided various regions of Circassia and carried of prisoners back. From the time of king (\"shah\") Tahmasp I (r. 1524-1576), the Circassians started to play an important role in Iranian society, and began to appear as a large ethnic group in the successive empires based in Iran.\n\nIn order to make a counterbalance to the tribal, ethnic, and favoured interests the Qizilbash gave which make a system imbalanced, Tahmasp I had already been making the first steps of creating a new layer in Iranian society. The kings before Tahmasp and he himself often found themselves incapable of ruling effectively due to the extremely strong influence the Qizilbash expressed in all spheres of the empire. The Qizilbash had formed the backbone of the Safaviyya from the earliest days, and they had always provided substantial military as well, on which the Safavids relied for a long period of time. In order to break this system, a counterbalance was needed, and a new layer in society was the medium through which this could be reached. This new layer in society, was called the \"third force\", as they were a new ethnic class, or \"force\", alongside the Turkomans and Persians. This new layer, initiated by Tahmasp I, would be composed of many hundreds of thousands of Christian and pagan Caucasian, mostly ethnically Circassian and Georgian, deportees, importees, slaves, and migrants. This new society layer was to be eventually fully accomplished and implemented by king Abbas I (r. 1588-1629). Out of this new layer, a new military force was established as well; a force that would directly contest the hegemony of the Qizilbash everywhere in the empire, replace them from all their positions, thereby firmly securing the kings' grip over the kingdom. These \"gholams\", or \"military slaves\", were part of this newly created layer in society. The \"gholam\" slave system, although initiated by Tahmasp I, was perfectioned and fully implemented by king Abbas I, and its rank and file were drawn from these massive amounts of ethnic Circassians, Georgians, Armenians and other peoples of the Caucasus, such as Lezgins. Eventually, these large amounts of Circassians and other Caucasians, only loyal to the shah, replaced the Qizilbash and vied through the system with them for political hegemony and supremacy, and were to be victorious, although sometimes they would vy against each other as well.\n\nCircassians made up a good bulk of these elite armies (the so-called \"gholams\"), and played therefore a pivotal role. This elite [slave system] army was similar to the Janissaries of neighbouring Ottoman Turkey, in its implementation and formation. The ones in the armies received, after advanced education, conversion to Islam, and upbringing by Muslim families, the best military training and equipment, and were the strongest force and class of the empire. Other large amounts of Circassians were, like the Georgians, employed and deployed in all other possible aspects and positions that the empires offered, such as the harem, civil administration, military administration, peasantry, and craftry, amongst others, while other large numbers were initially settled in various regions in mainland Iran, including Gilan, Mazandaran, and Fars.\n\nAccording to Thomas Herbert, who was in Safavid Iran in the first half of the 17th century, Aspas was inhabited by some 40,000 transplanted Christian Circassians and Georgians. By the time of king Suleiman I's reign (r. 1666–1694), an estimated 20,000 Circassians, Dagestanis, and Georgians were living in the Safavid capital of Isfahan alone.\n\nMany of the shahs, princes, and princesses descended from noble Circassian lines. Many of the Safavid nobility at the court were Circassian. In fact, the Safavids their heavily mixed ancestry includes several Circassian lines. King Abbas II (r. 1642-1666) and Shah Suleiman I (r. 1666-1694) are just some of the examples amongst the highest nobility that were born by Circassian mothers.\n\nFollowing the mass expulsion of the native Circassians of the Northwest Caucasus in 1864 mainly towards the Ottoman Empire, some also fled to neighboring Qajar Iran, which bordered the Ottoman Empire and Imperial Russia. In Iran, the government followed an assimilation policy, starting the gradual absorption of the Caucasian refugees into the population. Some of these deportees from after 1864 rose to various high ranks such as in the Persian Cossack Brigade, where every member of the army was either Circassian or any other type of ethnos from the Caucasus.\n\nDespite heavy assimilation over the centuries, Circassian settlements have lasted into the 20th century. However, the Circassian languages once also widely used by the large Circassian minority, no sizable number of Circassians in Iran speak the language anymore. After the Georgians, the Circassians are the second largest Caucasus derived group in Iran, comprising significant numbers.\n\nNotable Iranians of either partial or full Circassian descent include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49769385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49769385", "title": "Dickey Amendment", "text": "Dickey Amendment\n\nIn United States politics, the Dickey Amendment is a provision first inserted as a rider into the 1996 federal government omnibus spending bill which mandated that \"none of the funds made available for injury prevention and control at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) may be used to advocate or promote gun control.\" In the same spending bill, Congress earmarked $2.6 million from the CDC's budget, the exact amount that had previously been allocated to the agency for firearms research the previous year, for traumatic brain injury-related research.\n\nThe amendment was lobbied for by the NRA. The amendment is named after its author Jay Dickey, a Republican member of the United States House of Representatives from Arkansas. Many commentators have described this amendment as a \"ban\" on gun violence research by the CDC.\n\nThe amendment was introduced after lobbying by the National Rifle Association in response to their perceived bias in a 1993 study by Arthur Kellermann that found that guns in the home were associated with an increased risk of homicide in the home, as well as other CDC funded studies and efforts. Mark L. Rosenberg, the former director of the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, has described this amendment as \"a shot fired across the bow\" at CDC researchers who wanted to research gun violence. In a 2012 op-ed, Dickey and Rosenberg argued that the CDC should be able to research gun violence, and Dickey has since said that he regrets his role in stopping the CDC from researching gun violence, saying he simply didn't want to \"let any of those dollars go to gun control advocacy.\" \n\nIn response to this amendment being adopted, the American Psychological Association adopted a resolution condemning it. In December 2015, multiple medical organizations, including Doctors for America, the American College of Preventive Medicine, and the American Academy of Pediatrics, called on Congress to repeal the amendment. That same month, the American Association for the Advancement of Science also called for an end to this amendment.\n\nIn 2013, President Barack Obama directed the CDC to research gun violence. The CDC responded by funding a research project in 2013 and conducting their own study in 2015. That month, a spokeswoman for the agency, Courtney Lenard, told the \"Washington Post\" that \"It is possible for us to conduct firearm-related research within the context of our efforts to address youth violence, domestic violence, sexual violence, and suicide. But our resources are very limited.\" \n\nIn October 2015, 110 members of Congress, all of whom were Democrats, signed a letter calling on Congress to reject the amendment. \n\nIn December 2015, despite Nancy Pelosi's efforts to have the Dickey amendment removed from the spending bill for the following year, Congress passed this bill with the amendment still in it.\n\nOn March 21, 2018, Congressional negotiators reached a deal on an Omnibus continuing resolution. The 1.3 trillion dollar spending agreement also includes language that codified Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar interpretation of the Dickey Rider in testimony on February 18, 2018, before the US House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee. While the amendment itself remains, the language in a report accompanying the Omnibus spending bill clarifies that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention can conduct research into gun violence, but cannot use government appropriated funds to do so. It was signed into law by U.S. President Donald J. Trump on March 23, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1222646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1222646", "title": "Economy of North America", "text": "Economy of North America\n\nThe economy of North America comprises more than 579 million people (8% of the world population) in its 23 sovereign states and 15 dependent territories. It is marked by a sharp division between the predominantly English speaking countries of Canada and the United States, which are among the wealthiest and most developed nations in the world, and countries of Central America and the Caribbean in the former Latin America that are less developed. Mexico and Caribbean nations of the Commonwealth of Nations are between the economic extremes of the development of North America.\n\nMexico lies in between these two extremes as a newly industrialized country (NIC), and is a part of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), being one of the only two Latin American members of this organisation (together with Chile). The United States is by far the largest economy in North America and the largest national economy in the world.\n\nThe US, Canada and Mexico have significant and multifaceted economic systems. In 2011, the US has an estimated per capita gross domestic product (PPP) of $47,200, and is the most technologically developed economy in North America. The United States' services sector comprises 76.7% of the country's GDP (estimated in 2010), industry comprises 22.2% and agriculture comprises 1.2%.\n\nCanada's economic trends are similar to that of the United States, with significant growth in the sectors of services, mining and manufacturing. Canada's GDP (PPP) was estimated at $39,400 in 2010. Canada's services sector comprises 78% of the country's GDP (estimated in 2010), industry comprises 20% and agriculture comprises 2%.\n\nMexico has a GDP (PPP) of $15,312, and per capita income is estimated at approximately one-third of the United States'. The country has both modern and outdated industrial and agricultural facilities and operations, and is modernizing in sectors such as energy production, telecommunications and airports.\n\nThe Great Depression began in North America in October 1929. The start is often dated to the stock market collapse of Black Tuesday although this was not the cause of the Great Depression. Canada and the United States experienced especially large declines, with the gross domestic product falling 37% from 1929 to 1933 in the United States, and 43% in Canada over the same period. The economy reached its lowest point in 1933, however recovery was slow. The outbreak of World War II in 1939 created demand for war materials that brought about the end of the depression.\n\nThe Great Depression spurred increased government intervention in the economy in North America. The United States introduced unemployment insurance, a minimum wage and standardised working hours under the New Deal. Canada introduced similar measures. Mexico nationalised some key industries during the Great Depression, with the railroads nationalised by 1937 and the oil industry nationalised in 1938.\n\nThe large scale enlistment of men into armed forces during World War II women entered the workforce en masse, filling many jobs in manufacturing and technical areas that had previously been closed to women. This led to the \"We can do it!\" campaign. The economic output in North America increased substantially, with unemployment practically eliminated in the United States. Rationing severely reduced the availability of consumer goods, with the increase in industrial production coming from the demand for war materials. During the peak of World War II activity, nearly 40 per cent of US GDP was devoted to war production.\n\nThe Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement of 1989 and the subsequent expansion to the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) triggered a dramatic increase in trade between these three countries, with Mexican trade with the United States and Canada increasing threefold. Over 85% of Canadian exports in 2006 went to the United States.\n\nWith various climate zones, agricultural products vary from country to country. Job sectors are also different, with industrialized countries having more service workers, and developing countries relling on agriculture.\n\nThe Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) is a group of Pacific Rim countries which meet with the purpose of improving economic and political ties. APEC's stated goals are aimed at free and open trade and investments by cutting tariffs between zero and five percent in the Asia-Pacific area for industrialised economies by 2010 and for developing economies by 2020.\n\nThe organisation has members from four continents, those from North America are Canada, Mexico and the United States.\n\nThe Caribbean Community (CARICOM) was created \"To provide dynamic leadership and service, in partnership with Community institutions and Groups, toward the attainment of a viable, internationally competitive and sustainable Community, with improved quality of life for all\". It's secretariat is based in Georgetown, Guyana, South America.\n\n- On January 1, 2006 six members: (Barbados, Belize, Guyana, Jamaica, Suriname and Trinidad and Tobago) unofficially ushered in the Caribbean (CARICOM) Single Market and Economy (CSME).\n\n- At the official signing of the protocol on January 30, 2006 in Jamaica, A further six members: (Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines) announced their intention to join by the second quarter of 2006. Montserrat, a British Oversees territory is awaiting approval by the United Kingdom. Haiti and the Bahamas have no immediate plans to join.\n\nThe Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) is an agreement between the United States and the Central American countries of Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The treaty is aimed at promoting free trade between its members. Canada and Mexico are negotiating membership.\n\nThe North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) is an agreement between Canada, Mexico and the United States to eliminate tariffs on goods traded between themselves.\n\nAlthough currently only a trade agreement, with no supranational bodies or laws as in the European Union, there have been various proposals to move towards a customs union or a North American currency union. It is unknown whether this may eventually develop into a North American Union similar to that of Europe.\n\nBelow is a list of the currencies of North America, with exchange rates between each currency and both the \"euro\" and \"US dollars\" . This list may vary as it is not current.\n\n\"Table correct as of 12 April 2008\"\n\nAgriculture is very important in Central American and Caribbean nations. In western Canada, in the provinces of Saskatchewan, Alberta, British Columbia and Manitoba, wheat and other various main agricultural products are grown. The U.S. also has many states with significant agriculture production, mainly in the central continental U.S. Mexico produces many tropical fruits and vegetables as well as edible animals.\n\nNorth America has developed and its manufacturing sector has grown. In the beginning the European nations were the large manufacturing powers. At the start of the 1950s, the United States was a top manufacturing power, with Canada and Mexico also making significant progress.\n\nIn Canada, the US and the Caribbean, service-based employment is a significant percentage of overall employment. Many people work in stores and other retail locations. In Canada more than 70% work in the services sector, with a similar percentage in the United States.\n\nThe United States leads North America in investment and banking. Canada, Mexico and most recently, February 2011, El Salvador is growing in this sector. And smaller economic powers such as Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica, and Panama are also growing slowly in this sector.\n\nTourism is extremely important for the Caribbean economies, as they contain many beaches and have warm climates. Skiing in Canada and the US is also important. Tourism of national parks and natural landmarks, such as Mount Rushmore and the Grand Canyon in the United States, and Niagara Falls and Moraine lake in Canada, contribute to the economy in these regions.\n\n\nStatistics:\n"}
{"id": "1950512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1950512", "title": "Embedded journalism", "text": "Embedded journalism\n\nEmbedded journalism refers to news reporters being attached to military units involved in armed conflicts. While the term could be applied to many historical interactions between journalists and military personnel, it first came to be used in the media coverage of the 2003 invasion of Iraq. The United States military responded to pressure from the country's news media who were disappointed by the level of access granted during the 1991 Gulf War and the 2001 U.S. invasion of Afghanistan.\n\nThe practice has been criticized as being part of a propaganda campaign whereby embedded journalists accompanied the invading forces as cheerleaders and flacks.\n\nAt the start of the war in March 2003, as many as 775 reporters and photographers were traveling as embedded journalists. These reporters signed contracts with the military promising not to report information that could compromise unit position, future missions, classified weapons, and information they might find. Joint training for war correspondents started in November 2002 in advance of start of the war. When asked why the military decided to embed journalists with the troops, Lt. Col. Rick Long of the U.S. Marine Corps replied, \"Frankly, our job is to win the war. Part of that is information warfare. So we are going to attempt to dominate the information environment.\"\n\nThe first journalist to run afoul of U.S. military rules in Iraq was freelancer Philip Smucker, travelling on assignment for the\" Christian Science Monitor \"with the 1st Marine Division. Smucker was not officially embedded, but all reporters in the theater of war were deemed subject to Pentagon oversight. On March 26, 2003, during an interview with CNN, Smucker disclosed the location of a Marine unit, as he'd also done during an interview with NPR. He was thereafter expelled.\n\nJust four days later, Fox News Channel correspondent Geraldo Rivera similarly broadcast details from Iraq of the position and plans of U.S. troops. \"Let me draw a few lines here for you,\" he said, making on-camera marks in the sand. \"First, I want to make some emphasis here that these hash marks here, this is us. We own that territory. It's 40%, maybe even a little more than that.\" At another point, complained a CENTCOM spokesman, Rivera \"actually revealed the time of an attack prior to its occurrence.\" Although Rivera—like Philip Smucker—was not officially embedded, he was swiftly escorted back to Kuwait. A week later, Rivera apologized. \"I'm sorry that it happened,\" he said on Fox News Channel, \"and I assure you that it was inadvertent. Nobody was hurt by what I said. No mission was compromised.\" However, a network review, he admitted, \"showed that I did indeed break one of the rules related to embedment.\"\n\nIn December 2005 the U.S. Coalition Forces Land Component Command in Kuwait pulled the credentials of two embedded journalists on a two-week assignment for the Virginian-Pilot newspaper in Norfolk, Virginia, claiming they violated a prohibition against photographing damaged vehicles.\n\nThe ethics of embedded journalism are considered controversial. The practice has been criticized as being part of a propaganda campaign and an effort to keep reporters away from civilian populations and sympathetic to invading forces; for example by the documentary films \"\" and \"The War You Don't See\".\n\nEmbed critics objected that the level of military oversight was too strict and that embedded journalists would make reports that were too sympathetic to the American side of the war, leading to use of the alternate term \"inbedded journalist\" or \"inbeds\". \"Those correspondents who drive around in tanks and armored personnel carriers,\" said journalist Gay Talese in an interview, \"who are spoon-fed what the military gives them and they become mascots for the military, these journalists. I wouldn't have journalists embedded if I had any power!... There are stories you can do that aren't done. I've said that many times.\"\n\nOn June 14, 2014, \"The New York Times\" published an opinion piece critical of embedded journalism during both the U.S. military occupation of Iraq and the war in Afghanistan. It was written by PVT Chelsea Manning, the former U.S. Army intelligence analyst known for leaking the largest set of classified documents in American history. At no point during her 2009–10 deployment in Iraq, Manning wrote, were there more than a dozen American journalists covering military operations—in a country of 31 million people and 117,000 U.S. troops. Manning charged that vetting of reporters by military public affairs officials was used \"to screen out those judged likely to produce critical coverage,\" and that once embedded, journalists tended \"to avoid controversial reporting that could raise red flags\" out of fear having their access terminated. \"A result,\" wrote Manning, \"is that the American public's access to the facts is gutted, which leaves them with no way to evaluate the conduct of American officials.\" Manning noted, \"This program of limiting press access was challenged in court in 2013 by a freelance reporter, Wayne Anderson, who claimed to have followed his agreement but to have been terminated after publishing adverse reports about the conflict in Afghanistan. The ruling on his case upheld the military's position that there was no constitutionally protected right to be an embedded journalist.\"\n\nGina Cavallaro, a reporter for the \"Army Times, \"said, \"They’re [the journalists] relying more on the military to get them where they want to go, and as a result, the military is getting smarter about getting its own story told.\" But, she added, \"I don't necessarily consider that a bad thing.\"\n\nDuring both the Iraq War and War in Afghanistan, improvised explosive devices (IEDs) were used extensively against U.S.-led Coalition forces, and accounted for the majority of Coalition casualties. Journalists travelling with ground forces were at the same risk. On January 29, 2006, while embedded with the U.S. Army's 4th Infantry Division, ABC's \"World News Tonight\" co-anchor Bob Woodruff and cameraman Doug Vogt were, together with an Iraqi soldier, seriously injured when their convoy was ambushed near Taji, Iraq, and an IED detonated beneath them. At the time of the attack, Woodruff and Vogt were exposed, standing in the back hatch of their Iraqi mechanized vehicle taping a video log of the patrol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19943389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19943389", "title": "Gautam Radhakrishna Desiraju", "text": "Gautam Radhakrishna Desiraju\n\nGautam Radhakrishna Desiraju is an Indian chemist who has contributed substantially to the themes of crystal engineering and weak hydrogen bonding. He has authored books on these subjects. He has co-authored a textbook in crystal engineering (2011). He is one of the most highly cited Indian scientists and has been recognised by awards such as the Alexander von Humboldt Forschungspreis, the ISA Medal for Science 2018 of the University of Bologna and the TWAS Prize in Chemistry. He served as President of the International Union of Crystallography for the triennium 2011–2014.\n\nGautam Desiraju was born 21 August 1952 in Madras, India. He had his schooling in Cathedral and John Connon Boys School in Bombay and obtained his B.Sc. (1972) from St. Xavier's College, Bombay. He obtained his Ph.D. (1976) from University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign where he worked under the supervision of David Y. Curtin and Iain C. Paul. He worked between 1976 and 1978 in the Research Laboratories of Eastman Kodak Company in Rochester, NY. From 1978 to 1979 he was a research fellow in the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. He joined the University of Hyderabad in 1979 as a lecturer and was promoted as reader in 1984 and professor in 1990. He spent a year (1988–1989) in the CR&D department of DuPont in Wilmington as a visiting scientist. After 30 years in the University of Hyderabad, he joined the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore in 2009. He is a member of the editorial advisory boards of Angewandte Chemie, Journal of the American Chemical Society and Chemical Communications. He is a past president of the International Union of Crystallography during 2011-2014. He was the chair of the first Gordon Research Conference in Crystal Engineering, which was held in 2010. He is a recipient of an honorary doctorate degree of the Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Argentina and of the Rayalaseema University, Kurnool. He organized in August 2017, with a Local Organizing Committee, the 24th Congress and General Assembly of the International Union of Crystallography in Hyderabad. He was awarded the Acharya P. C. Ray Medal of the University of Calcutta for 2015, in January 2018, for innovation in science and technology.\n\nDesiraju's contribution to the subject of crystal engineering has focus on the concept of the supramolecular synthon, which is a small sub-structural unit that is an adequate enough representation of the entire crystal structure of a molecular solid. The major problem in crystal engineering is that the prediction of a crystal structure from a molecular structure is very difficult and not easily derivable from functional groups. Identification of supramolecular synthons simplifies this otherwise intractable problem. The supramolecular synthon concept is now widely used by crystal engineers in the design of molecular crystals and pharmaceutical co-crystals, which are important from scientific and commercial viewpoints. Crystal engineering is effectively like supramolecular synthesis in the solid state, and there is a direct analogy between the supramolecular synthon of Desiraju and the molecular synthon that was proposed for organic synthesis by E. J. Corey.\n\nDesiraju's second area of contribution focuses on weakly activated groups like the C-H group can act as donors of hydrogen bonds in molecular and biomolecular systems. These weak hydrogen bonds had been discussed sporadically since the 1930s, but it was only after the 1980s that the idea of a weakly activated group forming hydrogen bonds gained acceptance in the chemical community. Desiraju was among the few structural chemists who argued in those early days that the C-H...O and other weak interactions have a hydrogen bond character.\n\nDesiraju has authored around 425 publications. In addition to the three books on crystal engineering and hydrogen bonding, he has edited three multi-author books on these topics in structural chemistry. He has guided the PhD work of nearly 40 students over the past 38 years.\n\nDesiraju has authored several commentaries on science, the evolution of chemistry as a subject, emergence and complexity, and research habits and practices in various cultures. He has also written articles about the state of science education and research in India, and about the current status of chemistry research in India, where he has identified problems and suggested solutions in situations that are, in part, expected in a country that is rooted in the traditional but yet aspires for the contemporary.\n\nHis two authored books on crystal engineering and the weak hydrogen bond have around 3000 and 5000 cites each. His 1995 review in Angewandte Chemie has been cited more than 3400 times. Five of his 425 publications have been cited 1000 or more times, 24 over 200, and 55 over 100. He has an h-index of 78 Web of Science and this makes him one of the most highly cited scientists in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "6845279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6845279", "title": "Generationism", "text": "Generationism\n\nGenerationism is the belief that a specific generation has inherent traits that make it inferior or superior to another generation. The term is usually applied to claims of superiority in the expressed values, valuations, lifestyles and general beliefs of one generation compared to those of another, where objectively verifiable criteria substantiating the claim of superiority in themselves are lacking. \n\nGenerationism is most commonly used as an accusation against the belief that the contemporary generation in itself is inherently superior to previous generations, for example through the common practice of pejoratively referring to ancient cultures as \"primitive\" – not to be confused with the positive label of primitivism – although an older generation's opposition to the values and lifestyles of a younger generation may also popularly be referred to as generationist.\n\nGenerationism as a recurring sociological phenomenon has been studied in detail by the Swedish philosophers Alexander Bard and Jan Söderqvist in their work \"The Global Empire\" (published in Swedish in 2003). Bard and Söderqvist regard generationism as a close but far less frequently analyzed relative of racism which they propose should be studied in more detail to strengthen the general argumentation for relativism and pragmatism in contemporary philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "22327131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22327131", "title": "Gruban v Booth", "text": "Gruban v Booth\n\nGruban v Booth was a 1917 fraud case in England that generated significant publicity because the defendant, Frederick Handel Booth, was a Member of Parliament. Gruban was a German-born businessman who ran several factories that made tools for manufacturing munitions for the First World War. In an effort to find money to expand his business he contacted a businessman and Member of Parliament named Frederick Handel Booth, who agreed to provide the necessary money. After stealing money Booth tricked Gruban into handing over the company and then had him interned under war-time regulations to prevent the story coming out.\n\nGruban successfully appealed against his internment, and as soon as he was freed brought Booth to court. The case was so popular that the involved barristers found it physically difficult to get into the court each day due to the size of the crowds gathered outside. Although the barristers on both sides were noted for their skill the case went almost entirely one way, with the jury taking only ten minutes to find Booth guilty. This was one of the first noted cases of Patrick Hastings, and his victory in it led to him applying to become a King's Counsel.\n\nJohn Gruban was a German-born businessman, originally named Johann Wilhelm Gruban, who had come to England in 1893 to work for an engineering company, Haigh and Company. By 1913 he had turned the business from an almost bankrupt company to a successful manufacturer of machine tools, and at the outbreak of the First World War it was one of the first companies to produce machine tools used to make munitions. This made Gruban a major player in a now-large market, and he attempted to raise £5,000 to expand his business. On independent advice he contacted Frederick Handel Booth, a noted Liberal Member of Parliament who was chairman of the Yorkshire Iron and Coal Company and had led the government inquiry into the Marconi scandal. When Gruban contacted Booth, Booth told him that he could do \"more for [your] company than any man in England\", claiming that David Lloyd George (at the time Minister of Munitions) and many other important government officials were close friends. With £3,500 borrowed from his brother-in-law, Booth immediately invested in Gruban's company.\n\nThe sinking of the \"RMS Lusitania\" in 1915 created a wave of anti-German sentiment, and Gruban worried that he would find it difficult to find government work because of his nationality and thick German accent. He again contacted Booth, who again claimed to be friends with David Lloyd George and his secretary, Christopher Addison, and said that if Gruban put Booth on the Board of Directors he could \"do with the Ministry of Munitions what I like\". Gruban immediately made Booth the chairman of his company, and over 3 months took £400 on expenses. He then claimed that this was not enough money for the work he did, and he should get a secret payment of 10% of the value of a contract known as the \"Birmingham Contract\". The contract was worth £6,000, and Booth wrote a memo saying that he should have £580 or £600. Gruban refused, and Booth threw the note in the wastepaper basket. From that point onwards Booth worked as hard as he could to undermine Gruban's position, while outwardly appearing to be his friend.\n\nOver the next few months a series of complaints came from the Ministry of Munitions about Gruban's work and his German origins, ending in a written statement by David Lloyd George's private secretary that it was \"undesirable that any person of recent German nationality or association should at the present time be connected in an important capacity with any company or firm engaged in the production of munitions of war\". Booth showed this to Gruban and told him that the only way to save the company and prevent Gruban being interned was for him to transfer the ownership of the company to Booth. Gruban did this, and Booth immediately \"came out in his true colours\", treating Gruban with contempt and refusing to help support his wife and family now that Gruban had no income. Eventually Booth wrote to the Ministry of Munitions saying that Gruban had \"taken leave of his senses\", and the Ministry had Gruban interned.\n\nGruban appealed against the internment order, and was called before a court consisting of Mr Justice Younger and Mr Justice Sankey. After reviewing the facts of the case and the stories of Gruban and Booth the judges ordered the immediate release of Gruban, and recommended that he seek legal advice to see if he could regain control of his company. After he was released Gruban found a solicitor, W.J. Synott, who gave the case to Patrick Hastings.\n\nHastings felt that their best chances lay in interviewing Christopher Addison about his contact with Booth; as Addison was a government minister he could be relied on to tell the truth. The case of \"Gruban v Booth\" opened on 7 May 1917 at the King's Bench Division of the High Court of Justice in front of Mr Justice Coleridge. Patrick Hastings and Hubert Wallington represented Gruban, while Booth was represented by Rigby Swift KC and Douglas Hogg. The trial attracted such public interest that on the final day the barristers found it physically difficult to get through the crowds surrounding the Law Courts.\n\nAs counsel for the prosecution, Hastings was the first barrister to speak. In his opening speech to the jury he criticised Booth for loving money rather than his country, saying that one of the things which the English prided themselves on was fair play, and \"no matter how loudly the defendant raises the cry of patriotism, I feel sure that your sense of fair play, gentlemen, will ensure a verdict that the defendant is unfit to sit in the House of Commons, as he has been guilty of fraud\". Hastings then called Gruban to the witness stand, and asked him to tell the jury what had happened. Gruban described how Booth had claimed to have influence over David Lloyd George. Gruban was then cross-examined by Rigby Swift.\n\nBooth was then called to the witness stand, and initially claimed that Gruban had claimed to be \"a very powerful man\" and that it had been a case of Gruban using his power to help Booth, not the other way around. He was still in the witness box when the court day ended, and the next morning it was announced that Christopher Addison had come to the court. The judge allowed Addison to give his testimony before they continued with Booth, and during a cross-examination by Hastings Addison stated that he had not been advising Booth in any way, and that \"to say that Gruban's only chance of escape from internment was to hand over his shares to Mr Booth was a lie\".\n\nThe final witness was Handel Booth himself. Booth stated that he would never have asked for a ten-percent commission on the Birmingham contract, and that he had never claimed he could influence government ministers. Hastings showed the jury that both of these statements were lies, first by showing the piece of paper Booth had scribbled the \"Birmingham contract\" memo on and then by showing a telegram from Booth to Gruban in which Booth claimed that he \"[had] already spoken to a Cabinet Minister and high official\".\n\nIn his summing up Mr Justice Coleridge was \"on the whole unfavourable to Booth\". He also pointed out that the German nationality of Gruban might prejudice the jury, and asked them to \"be sure that you permit no prejudice on their hand to disturb the balance of the scales of justice\". The jury decided the case in only ten minutes, finding Booth guilty and awarding Gruban £4,750.\n\n"}
{"id": "12162356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12162356", "title": "Hadjarai peoples", "text": "Hadjarai peoples\n\nThe Hadjarai are a group of peoples comprising 6.7% of the population of Chad, or more than 150,000 people. The name is an Arabic exonym, literally meaning \"[those] of the stones\" (i.e. of the mountains). It is used collectively to describe several distinct ethnic groups living in the hilly Guéra Region.\n\nThe fifteen Hadjarai ethnic groups include the Dajus, Kengas, Junkun, Dangaleats, Mogoums, Sokoros, Sabas, Barains, Bidios, Yalnas, Bolgos, Koffas and Djongors. Most of these are small farmers. Over 90% of Hadjarai women have undergone female genital cutting.\n\nWhile the Hadjarai groups speak diverse languages, they share many cultural traits, the most prevalent of which is a common belief in \"margais\", i.e., invisible spirits that control the natural elements. This belief has survived the rapid conversion of most Hadjarai to Islam during the colonial period, despite attempts by the French colonial authorities to avoid Islamization through the promotion of Christian missions.\n\nThough never united in the past, the Hadjarai people share a strong spirit of independence, forged in pre-colonial Chad by their repeated clashes with slave-raiding \"razzias\" in their territory, and supported in particular by the Ouaddai Kingdom. This tradition of independence has led to frequent clashes with the central government after Chad gained independence in 1960, at first largely because of attempts to force them to move from the hills to the plains. They were among the staunchest supporters of the rebels during the Chadian Civil War. \n\nAlthough the Hadjarai played a crucial role in bringing to power Hissène Habré in 1982, they grew alienated from him after the death of their spokesman Idriss Miskine. They suffered heavily in 1987, after Habré launched a campaign of terror against them in response to the formation of the MOSANAT rebel movement, and members of the group were arrested and even killed \"en masse\". 840 of those arrested appear to have been immediately killed. \n\nThe Hadjarai became important supporters of Idriss Déby's rebellion against the President and contributed to Habré's downfall in 1990. A crisis among Déby and the Hadjarai leadership flared in 1991 after an alleged coup attempt. Countless Hadjarai were incarcerated as fighting spread to the Hadjarai territory, despite efforts by Déby to reassure the local population of Guéra.\n"}
{"id": "18208794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18208794", "title": "Henry Lee Adams Jr.", "text": "Henry Lee Adams Jr.\n\nHenry Lee Adams Jr. (born 1945) is a Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida.\n\nAdams was born in Jacksonville, Florida and graduated from Matthew Gilbert High School in Jacksonville in 1962. He received his Bachelor of Science degree in political science from Florida A&M University in 1966 and his Juris Doctor from Howard University School of Law in 1969.\n\nAdams was awarded Reginald Heber Smith Fellow in April 1969. He completed a Consumer Rights and Poverty Law training program at Haverford College and was assigned to the Duval County Legal Aid Association, a legal aid society in Duval County, Florida, from 1969 to 1970. He was an assistant public defender of the Fourth Judicial Circuit of Florida (Duval, Clay, and Nassau counties) from November 1970 to 1972. In January 1972, he entered private practice in Jacksonville, first with the firm of Sheppard, Fletcher, Hand & Adams and then in 1976 with Marshall and Adams. In October 1979, Florida governor Bob Graham appointed Adams a judge of the Fourth Judicial Circuit.\n\nAdams remained a judge on that court until 1993, when President Bill Clinton nominated him to the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida on October 29, 1993, to the seat vacated by Susan H. Black. Confirmed by the Senate on November 20, 1993, and received commission four days later. Adams was assigned to the Tampa Division of the court from December 1993 until April 2000, when he was reassigned to the Jacksonville Division. Adams assumed senior status on April 8, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "25768745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25768745", "title": "Hindi-to-Punjabi Machine Translation System", "text": "Hindi-to-Punjabi Machine Translation System\n\nHindi to Punjabi machine translation system, developed at Punjabi University, Patiala by Gurpreet Singh Lehal and Dr. Vishal Goyal, is aimed to translate Hindi text into Punjabi text. It is based on the direct approach. It includes Preprocessing (Text Normalization, Replacing Collocations, Replacing Proper Nouns), Translation Engine (Identifying Surnames, Identifying Titles, Lexicon Lookup, word-sense disambiguation, Inflection Analysis, Transliteration) and Post processing module. This system has been available online\n\n"}
{"id": "11984730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11984730", "title": "Index of human sexuality articles", "text": "Index of human sexuality articles\n\nHuman sexuality covers a broad range of topics, including the physiological, psychological, social, cultural, political, philosophical, ethical, moral, theological, legal and spiritual or religious aspects of sex and human sexual behavior.\n\nArticles pertaining to human sexuality include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42426577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42426577", "title": "Institutional complementarity", "text": "Institutional complementarity\n\nInstitutional complementarity refers to situations of interdependence among institutions. This concept is frequently used to explain the degree of institutional diversity that can be observed across and within socio-economic systems, and its consequences on economic performance. In particular, the concept of institutional complementarity has been used to illustrate why institutions are resistant to change and why introducing new institutions into a system often leads to unintended, sometimes suboptimal, consequences.\n\nApproaches, based on the concept of institutional complementarities, have found applications across a wide range of institutional spheres, going from firm governance and industrial relations to varieties of capitalism and political reforms. Formal models have also been developed to study the nature and consequences of institutional complementarity. After a brief description of the canonical formal representation of institutional complementarity, the most relevant domains of applications will be discussed.\n\nThe concept of institutional complementarity has deep roots in the social sciences. Whereas the sociological approach of the interdependence of different institutions has left the actions of the individuals largely outside the analysis, the modern approach, developed mainly by economists, has been based on the analysis of the constraints facing the actions of the individuals acting in different domains of choice. This approach has found applications across a wide range of institutional spheres, going from firm governance and industrial relations to varieties of capitalism and political reforms. Formal models have also been developed to study the nature and consequences of institutional complementarity.\n\nThe canonical model of institutional complementarity is due to Masahiko Aoki and relies on the theory of supermodular games developed by Paul Milgrom and John Roberts. The basic structure of the model takes the following form.\n\nLet us consider a setting with two institutional domains, and , and two sets of agents, and that do not directly interact with each other. Nevertheless, an institution implemented in one domain parametrically affects the consequences of the actions taken in the other domain. For instance, can be associated with the type of ownership structure prevailing in a given country and with the structure of labour rights. For simplicity we assume that the technological and natural environment is constant.\n\nSuppose that the agents in domain can choose a rule from two alternative options: and ; similarly, agents in domain can choose a rule from either or . For simplicity, let us assume that all agents in each domain have an identical payoff function or defined on binary choice sets of their own, either or , with another sets as the set of parameters. We say that an (endogenous) “rule” is institutionalized in a domain when it is implemented as an equilibrium choice of agents in the relevant domains.\n\nSuppose that the following conditions hold:\n\nfor all and . The latter are the so-called supermodular (complementarity) conditions. The first condition implies that the “incremental” benefit for the agents in from choosing rather than increases as their institutional environment in is rather than . The second condition implies that the incremental benefit for agents in from choosing rather than increases if their institutional environment in is rather than . Note that these conditions are concerned with the property of incremental payoffs with respect to a change in a parameter value. They do not exclude the possibility that the level of payoff of one rule is strictly higher than that of the other for the agents of one or both domain(s) regardless of the choice of rule in the other domain. In such a case the preferred rule(s) will be implemented autonomously in the relevant domain, while the agents in the other domain will choose the rule that maximizes their payoffs in response to their institutional environment. Then the equilibrium of the system comprising and – and thus the institutional arrangement across them – is uniquely determined by preference (technology).\n\nHowever, there can also be cases in which neither rule dominates the other in either domain in the sense described above. If so, the agents in both domains need to take into account which rule is institutionalized in the other domain. Under the supermodularity condition there can then be two pure Nash equilibria (institutional arrangements) for the system comprising and , namely and . When such multiple equilibria exist, we say that and , as well as and , are “institutional complements”.\n\nIf institutional complementarity exists, each institutional arrangement characterizes as a self-sustaining equilibrium where no agent has an inventive to deviate. It terms of welfare, it may be the case that possible overall institutional arrangements are not mutually Pareto comparable, or that one of them could be even Pareto suboptimal to the other. In these cases history is the main force determining which type of institutional arrangements is likely to emerge, with the consequence that suboptimal outcomes are possible.\n\nSuppose for instance that is a Pareto-superior institutional arrangement in which and . However, for some historical reason is chosen in domain and becomes an institutional environment for domain . Faced with this institutional environment agents in domain will correspondingly react by choosing reason . Thus the Pareto-suboptimal institutional arrangement will result. This is an instance of coordination failure in the presence of indivisibility.\n\nObviously, there can also be cases where but . This is an instance where the two viable institutional arrangements cannot be Pareto ranked. Agents exhibit conflicting interests in the two equilibria and the emergence of one institutional arrangement as opposed to the other may depend on the distribution of decisional power. If for some reasons agents choosing in domain A have the power to select and enforce their preferred rule, arrangement is the most likely outcome. Alternatively, agents choosing in domain B will force the society to adopt .\n\nUgo Pagano and Robert Rowthorn present one of the earliest analytical contribution to institutional complementarity. In their models the technological choices take as parameters property rights arrangements whereas the latter are made on the basis of given technologies. The complementarities of technologies and property rights create two different sets of organizational equilibria. For instance, strong rights of the capital owners and a technology with a high intensity of specific and difficult to monitor capital are likely be institutional complements and define one possible organizational equilibrium. However, also strong workers' rights and a technology characterized by a high intensity of highly specific labor can be institutional complements and define an alternative organizational equilibrium. The organizational equilibria approach integrate the approach of Oliver Williamson, which have pointed out the influence of technology on rights and safeguards, and the views of the Radical Economists, who have stressed the opposite direction of causation. The complementarities existing in the different organizational equilibria integrate both directions of causation in a single analytical framework. A similar approach has been used to explain organizational diversity in knowledge-intensive industries, such as software.\n\nInstitutional complementarities characterize also the relations between intellectual property and human capital investments. Firms owning much intellectual property enjoy a protection for their investments in human capital, which in turn favor the acquisition of additional intellectual property. By contrast other firms may find themselves in a vicious circle where the lack of intellectual property inhibits the incentive to invest in human capital and low levels of human capital investments involve that little or no intellectual property is ever acquired.\n\nLess formal approaches to institutional complementarities have also been adopted. In their seminal contribution Peter A. Hall and David Soskice develop a broad theoretical framework to study the institutional complementarities that characterize different Varieties of Capitalism. Having a specific focus on the institutions of the political economy the authors develop an actor-centered approach for understanding the institutional similarities and differences among the developed economies. The varieties of capitalism approach has inspired a large number of application to the political economy field. To give some examples, Robert Franzese and Martin Höpner investigate the implications for industrial relations; Margarita Estevez-Abe, Torben Iversen and David Soskice use the approach to analyze social protection; Orfeo Fioretos considers political relationships, international negotiations and national interests; Peter A. Hall and Daniel W. Gingerich study the relationship among labor relations, corporate governance and rates of growth; Bruno Amable analyzes the implications of institutional complementarity for social systems of innovation and production.\n\nIn addition to institutional variety, the notion of institutional complementarity has also motivated studies on institutional change. In these works institutional complementarity is often presented as a conservative factor, which increases the stability of the institutional equilibrium. In presence of institutional complementarity change requires the simultaneous variation of different institutional domains, which in turn demands high coordination among the actors involved. Sometime, institutions themselves can act as resources for new courses of action that (incrementally) favor change.\n\nAlongside contributions on the distinct models of capitalism, the concept institutional complementarity has found application also in other domain of analysis. Masahiko Aoki, for instance, studies the role of institutional complementarity in contingent governance models of teams. Mathias Siems and Simon Deakin rely on an institutional complementarity approach to investigate differences in the business laws governing in various countries. Francesca Gagliardi argue in favor of an institutional complementarity relationship between local banking institutions and cooperative firms in Italy. Andrea Bonaccorsi and Grid Thoma, finally, uses the idea of institutional complementarity to investigate inventive performance in nano science and technology.\n"}
{"id": "37336566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37336566", "title": "Iranun language", "text": "Iranun language\n\nThe Iranun language also Iranon, Illanun is an Austronesian language belonging to the Danao languages spoken in the provinces of Maguindanao and other part of Lanao del Sur and Lanao del Norte and Cotabato in southern Philippines and the Malaysian state of Sabah. It is the second most spoken language in Maguindanao after the Maguindanao language.\n\nIranun is spoken in the following areas (\"Ethnologue\").\n\n"}
{"id": "20898040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20898040", "title": "Italian colonists in Albania", "text": "Italian colonists in Albania\n\nThe Italian colonists in Albania were Italians who, between the two world wars, moved to Albania to colonize the Balkan country for the Kingdom of Italy.\n\nThe presence of Italians in Albania started during the Roman Empire and the Middle Ages.\n\nAlbania had held strategic importance for Italy since the Renaissance, when the Republic of Venice controlled some areas of the Albanian coast (called Albania Veneta). In addition, southern Italy contained Albanian-speaking communities (Arbëreshë people), who had taken refuge there from the Ottoman invasion of Albania during the Skanderbeg era, and who were favorable to a possible union of Albania and Italy.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, Italian naval strategists eyed the port of Vlorë (Valona in Italian) and the island of Sazan (Saseno) at the entrance to the Bay of Vlorë. The port would give Italy control of the entrance to the Adriatic Sea. Also, Albania could provide Italy with a beachhead in the Balkans. Before World War I Italy and Austria-Hungary had been instrumental in the creation of an independent Albanian state. At the outbreak of war in 1915, Italy seized the chance to occupy the southern half of Albania, to prevent the Austro-Hungarians from capturing. That success did not last long, as post-war domestic problems, defeat in the Vlora War, and pressure from US President Woodrow Wilson, forced Italy to pull out in 1920. But Italy retained the island of Saseno, in front of Valona, that was annexed to the Province of Zara in Italian Dalmatia.\nWhen Benito Mussolini took power in Italy, he turned with renewed interest to Albania. Italy began penetrating Albania's economy in 1925, when Albania agreed to allow it to exploit its mineral resources. That was followed by the First Treaty of Tirana in 1926 and the Second Treaty of Tirana in 1927, whereby Italy and Albania entered into a defensive alliance. Italian loans subsidized the Albanian government and economy, and Italian military instructors trained the Albanian army. Italian colonial settlement was encouraged and the first 300 Italian colonists settled in Albania.\n\nDespite this strong Italian influence, King Zog of Albania refused to give in completely to Italian pressure. In 1931, he openly stood up to the Italians by refusing to renew the 1926 Treaty of Tirana.\n\nFascist Italy increased pressure on Albania in the 1930s, and on April 7, 1939 invaded Albania, five months before the start of the Second World War. The Albanian armed resistance proved ineffective and, after a short defense, Italy occupied the country. On 9 April 1939 Albanian King Zog fled to Greece, and Albania ceased to exist as an independent country. The Balkan country became a component of the Italian Empire and was turned into an Italian puppet state. Albania was designed for eventual colonization and Italianization.\n\nThe throne was claimed by King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy, who was the official ruler of Albania until his abdication on 25 July 1943. The country was led by Italian governors and an Albanian civil government.\n\nFrom April 1939, Albanian foreign affairs, customs, as well as natural resources came under direct control of Italy. All petroleum resources in Albania went through Agip, Italy's state petroleum company.\n\nThe puppet Albanian Fascist Party became the ruling party of the country and the local Fascists, like prime minister Shefqet Verlaci, allowed Italian citizens to settle in Albania and to own land so that they could gradually transform it into Italian soil. Verlaci (who had distant Italian roots) approved the possible administrative union of Albania and Italy, because he wanted Italian support for the union of Kosovo, Southern Epirus (Chameria), and other Albanian irredentist areas with the state of Albania, creating a Greater Albania. Indeed, this unification was partially realised after the Axis defeat of Yugoslavia and Greece in spring 1941 and the expansion of Albania into Macedonia, Kosovo, Novi Pazaar and Montenegro.\n\nItalian citizens began to settle in Albania as colonists and to own land so that they could gradually transform it into Italian soil.\n\nThe Italian colonists and the Italian \"assimilation\" were more or less welcomed in spring 1939, and were greeted by most Albanians when Albania was enlarged two years later. But in November 1941 they started to face contrary manifestations and the resistance of some Albanians, organized mainly by the Communist Party of Enver Hoxha.\n\nThe process of colonization began in 1926 with 300 colonists.The first Italians to colonise Albania were fishing families from Apulia, who moved to the island of Sazan opposite Vlora in 1918. The island was officially part of Italy from the end of World War I to 1947.\n\nIn 1926, the Italian government, in agreement with Albanian authorities, sent 300 Italian colonists to Kamez, near Tirana, to promote agricultural development.\n\nMost of the Italians were farmers from Arberesh communities in southern Italy. They were initially successful, and created the company \"Ente industria agraria albanese\" with an agricultural school, but the regime of King Zog expelled them in 1931, fearing excessive Italian influence in Albanian society and politics.\n\nAfter the occupation of Albania in April 1939, Mussolini sent nearly 11,000 Italian colonists to Albania. Most of them were from the Veneto region and Sicily. They settled primarily in the areas of Durazzo, Valona, Scutari, Porto Palermo, Elbasani and Santi Quaranta. They were the first settlers of a huge group of Italians to be moved to Albania.\n\nIn addition to these colonists, 22,000 Italian casual laborers went to Albania in April 1940 to construct roads, railways and infrastructure.\n\nMost of the 1939 colonists were men enrolled in the so-called Albanian Militia. This organization was an Albanian fascist paramilitary group, part of the Blackshirts. Later even Albanians were recruited in the group. It was headquartered in Tirana and consisted of four legions in Tirana, Korçë, Vlorë and Shkodër. The Albanian Militia was disbanded in 1943 following the fall of Italy in World War II.\n\nNo Italian colonists remain in Albania. The few who remained under the communist regime of Enver Hoxha escaped (with their descendants) to Italy in 1992, and actually are represented by the association \"ANCIFRA\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32080996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32080996", "title": "Japanese people in Egypt", "text": "Japanese people in Egypt\n\nThere is a small community of Japanese people in Egypt, mainly of expatriates from Japan. According to Japan's Ministry of Foreign affairs, there are about 1,051 Japanese residents in Egypt as of 2009.\n\nJapanese Rail engineers and experts, who were dispatched by Japan International Cooperation Agency, have been coming to Cairo to provide technical guidance on inspection and repair work at Cairo Metro and Japanese firms \"Kinki Sharyo Co.\" and the \"Toshiba Corporation\" have been contracted to produce the majority of the rolling stock for the project. There is also a team of Japanese archaeologists working in Egypt for over 40 years. One of their major projects was radar scanning inside and outside the Great Pyramid and they have also conducted important work at Dashur and Abusir.\n\nFollowing the 2011 Egyptian Revolution, many Japanese nationals in Egypt left the country. About 470 Japanese nationals fled the growing unrest in Cairo on three Japanese government-charted airplanes arranged by the Japanese Foreign Ministry's emergency task force in February 2011. The Japanese government is also scrambling to check the safety of all Japanese nationals living in Egypt in the wake of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak’s resignation\n\nJapanese schools in Egypt:\n\nThe Egypt-Japan University of Science and Technology is located in Alexandria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15830", "title": "John Lee Hooker", "text": "John Lee Hooker\n\nJohn Lee Hooker (August 22, 1912 or 1917 – June 21, 2001) was an American blues singer, songwriter, and guitarist. The son of a sharecropper, he rose to prominence performing an electric guitar-style adaptation of Delta blues. Hooker often incorporated other elements, including talking blues and early North Mississippi Hill country blues. He developed his own driving-rhythm boogie style, distinct from the 1930s–1940s piano-derived boogie-woogie.\n\nSome of his best known songs include \"Boogie Chillen'\" (1948), \"Crawling King Snake\" (1949), \"Dimples\" (1956), \"Boom Boom\" (1962), and \"One Bourbon, One Scotch, One Beer\" (1966). Several of his later albums, including \"The Healer\" (1989), \"Mr. Lucky\" (1991), \"Chill Out\" (1995), and \"Don't Look Back\" (1997), were album chart successes in the U.S. and U.K. \"The Healer\" (for the song \"I'm In The Mood\") and \"Chill Out\" (for the album) both earned him Grammy wins as well as \"Don't Look Back\", which went on to earn him a double-Grammy win for Best Traditional Blues Recording and Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals (with Van Morrison).\n\nHooker's date of birth is a subject of debate; the years 1912, 1915, 1917, 1920, and 1923 have been suggested. Most sources give 1917, though at times Hooker stated he was born in 1920. Information in the 1920 and 1930 censuses indicates that he was born in 1912. In 2017, a series of events took place to celebrate the purported centenary of his birth.\n\nIt is believed that he was born in Tutwiler, Mississippi, in Tallahatchie County, although some sources say his birthplace was near Clarksdale, in Coahoma County. He was the youngest of the 11 children of William Hooker (born 1871, died after 1923), a sharecropper and Baptist preacher, and Minnie Ramsey (born c. 1880, date of death unknown). In the 1920 federal census, William and Minnie were recorded as being 48 and 39 years old, respectively, which implies that Minnie was born about 1880, not 1875. She was said to have been a \"decade or so younger\" than her husband (\"Boogie Man\", p. 23), which gives additional credibility to this census record as evidence of Hooker's origins.\n\nThe Hooker children were home-schooled. They were permitted to listen only to religious songs; the spirituals sung in church were their earliest exposure to music. In 1921, their parents separated. The next year, their mother married William Moore, a blues singer, who provided John Lee with an introduction to the guitar (and whom he would later credit for his distinctive playing style).\n\nMoore was his first significant blues influence. He was a local blues guitarist who, in Shreveport, Louisiana, learned to play a droning, one-chord blues that was strikingly different from the Delta blues of the time.\n\nAnother influence was Tony Hollins, who dated Hooker's sister Alice, helped teach Hooker to play, and gave him his first guitar. For the rest of his life, Hooker regarded Hollins as a formative influence on his style of playing and his career as a musician. Among the songs that Hollins reputedly taught Hooker were versions of \"Crawlin' King Snake\" and \"Catfish Blues\".\n\nAt the age of 14, Hooker ran away from home, reportedly never seeing his mother or stepfather again. In the mid-1930s, he lived in Memphis, Tennessee, where he performed on Beale Street, at the New Daisy Theatre and occasionally at house parties.\n\nHe worked in factories in various cities during World War II, eventually getting a job with the Ford Motor Company in Detroit in 1943. He frequented the blues clubs and bars on Hastings Street, the heart of the black entertainment district, on Detroit's east side. In a city noted for its pianists, guitar players were scarce. Hooker's popularity grew quickly as he performed in Detroit clubs, and, seeking an instrument louder than his acoustic guitar, he bought his first electric guitar.\n\nHooker's recording career began in 1948, when Modern Records, based in Los Angeles, released a demo he had recorded for Bernie Besman in Detroit. The single, \"Boogie Chillen'\", became a hit and the best-selling race record of 1949. Despite being illiterate, Hooker was a prolific lyricist. In addition to adapting traditional blues lyrics, he composed original songs. In the 1950s, like many black musicians, Hooker earned little from record sales, and so he often recorded variations of his songs for different studios for an up-front fee. To evade his recording contract, he used various pseudonyms, including John Lee Booker (for Chess Records and Chance Records in 1951–1952), Johnny Lee (for De Luxe Records in 1953–1954), John Lee, John Lee Cooker, Texas Slim, Delta John, Birmingham Sam and his Magic Guitar, Johnny Williams, and the Boogie Man.\n\nHis early solo songs were recorded by Bernie Besman. Hooker rarely played with a standard beat, but instead he changed tempo to fit the needs of the song. This often made it difficult to use backing musicians, who were not accustomed to Hooker's musical vagaries. As a result, Besman recorded Hooker playing guitar, singing and stomping on a wooden pallet in time with the music.\n\nFor much of this period he recorded and toured with Eddie Kirkland. In Hooker's later sessions for Vee-Jay Records in Chicago, studio musicians accompanied him on most of his recordings, including Eddie Taylor, who could handle his musical idiosyncrasies. \"Boom Boom\" and \"Dimples\", two popular songs by Hooker, were originally released by Vee-Jay.\n\nBeginning in 1962, Hooker gained greater exposure when he toured Europe in the annual American Folk Blues Festival. His \"Dimples\" became a successful single on the UK Singles Charts in 1964, eight years after its first US release. Hooker began to perform and record with rock musicians. One of his earliest collaborations was with British blues rock band the Groundhogs. In 1970, he recorded the joint album \"Hooker 'n Heat\", with the American blues and boogie rock group Canned Heat, whose repertoire included adaptations of Hooker songs. It became the first of Hooker's albums to reach the \"Billboard\" charts, peaking at number 78 on the Billboard 200. Other collaboration albums soon followed, including \"Endless Boogie\" (1971) and \"Never Get Out of These Blues Alive\" (1972), which included Steve Miller, Elvin Bishop, Van Morrison, and others.\n\nHooker appeared in the 1980 film \"The Blues Brothers\". He performed \"Boom Boom\" in the role of a street musician. In 1989, he recorded the album \"The Healer\" with Carlos Santana, Bonnie Raitt, and others. The 1990s saw additional collaboration albums: \"Mr. Lucky\" (1991), \"Chill Out\" (1995), and \"Don't Look Back\" (1997) with Morrison, Santana, Los Lobos, and additional guest musicians. His re-recording of \"Boom Boom\" (the title track for his 1992 album) with guitarist Jimmie Vaughan became Hooker's highest charting single (number 16) in the UK. \"Come See About Me\", a 2004 DVD, includes performances filmed between 1960 and 1994 and interviews with several of the musicians.\n\nHooker died in his sleep on June 21, 2001, in Los Altos, California. He is interred at the Chapel of the Chimes in Oakland, California. He was survived by eight children, 19 grandchildren, and numerous great-grandchildren.\n\nAmong his many awards, Hooker was inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 1980, and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1991. He was awarded the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award in 2000 and has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.\n\nTwo of his songs, \"Boogie Chillen\" and \"Boom Boom\", are included in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's list of the \"500 Songs That Shaped Rock and Roll\". \"Boogie Chillen\" is also included in the Recording Industry Association of America's list of the \"Songs of the Century\".\n\nIn 2007, John Lee Hooker was voted into the Michigan Rock and Roll Legends Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54483424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54483424", "title": "Karen F. Parker", "text": "Karen F. Parker\n\nKaren Faye Parker is an American sociologist and criminologist known for her research on urban violence. She is a professor of sociology and criminology at the University of Delaware, where she has worked since 2007. She has also been a research associate at the University of Michigan's National Poverty Center since 2007, and was formerly a professor at the University of Florida before joining the faculty of the University of Delaware.\n\n"}
{"id": "27441371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27441371", "title": "Khokhar Khanzada", "text": "Khokhar Khanzada\n\nThe Khokhar Khanzada are a Muslim Rajput community found mainly in the Fatehpur district of Uttar Pradesh in India. They have no connection with the Ranghar Khokhar of Moradabad district in western Uttar Pradesh, another community of Muslim Khokhars settled in Uttar Pradesh. The Khokhar are a well known tribe, found mainly in the Punjab region of Pakistan and India. They claim to be Rajput The Khokhar Khanzada are a sub-community within the larger Khanzada community of eastern Uttar Pradesh.\n\nThe Khokhar Pathan claim descent from Malik Babur, who said to have come from kabool & Iran He was sent to Fatehpur by the Khalji authorities in Delhi to suppress the Bhars, a tribe that controlled most of eastern Uttar Pradesh. The Malik successfully defeated the Bhars, and the grateful Alauddin Khalji, the Sultan of Delhi granted several villages as a jagir (estate) in Fatehpur district, the main one being Kot, shivpuri, manmai. In addition to the settlement at Kot, they are also found in the villages of Arhaiya, Urha, Shahnagar, Rahmatpur, Shivpuri, Kulli, Ghazipur and Parvezpur. Other than the jagirdar families, the majority of the Fatehpur Khokhar are small to medium-sized farmers. With the abolishment of zamindari system of feudal ownership by the Indian government in 1949, this has had a strong impact on the large landowning families, as much of their land has been redistributed. A further change has been that many Khokhar Khanzada have also emigrated to Pakistan, and are now found mainly in Karachi.\n\nThey are Sunni Muslims, and have customs similar to other Khanzada communities in the region. The community is largely endogamous, although there are cases of intermarriage with the Gautam Khanzada, a neighbouring Muslim Rajput population. But most marriages are with a close kin, with the community practicing both parallel cousin and cross cousin marriages. The community speak Urdu, as well as the Awadhi dialect.\n\nThe town of Sambhal in Moradabad District is also home to several families of Khokhars, who have said to have emigrated from Gujrat in what is now Pakistani Punjab during the reign of the Mughal Emperor Babar. As most Rajput converts to Islam were in common parlance referred to as Ranghar, these Khokhars were also referred to as the Khokhar. The Emperor Babar himself is said to have granted the Khokhars jagir for the town of the Sambhal. They played a particularly important role in Rohilkhand politics during the period of Rohilla rule. The Khokhar were the effective rulers of the town of Sambhal and the adjoining countryside until the establishment of British rule after the Rohilla War of 1774. Although the Khokhars lost independent power, they remained one of the larger landowners in the district till 1949, when the newly independent India carried out substantive land reform, and broke up the large estates. The Khokhars remain a substantial element in the population of Sambhal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1175121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1175121", "title": "Law collective", "text": "Law collective\n\nA law collective is a non-hierarchical organization which provides legal aid to a community or communities in need. Such work ranges from traditional criminal defense, to advocacy on behalf of immigrants, to legal support at large and small protests, to \"Know Your Rights\" and other law-related workshops.\n\nThere were many law collectives in the 1970s. These collectives ran as worker-run, cooperative law firms. They often had revolutionary politics, and supported explicitly revolutionary groups and individuals. Lawyer and non-lawyer employees were paid the same wages, and had equal decision-making power. At some law collectives, workers supporting families were paid more. A handful of law collectives organized along those lines still exist - for example, the People's Law Office in Chicago, Illinois and the Portland Law Collective in Portland, Oregon.\n\nSuch law collectives' activities may have been covertly disrupted by government officials in order to diminish their effectiveness. For example, the Bar Sinister law collective in Los Angeles was allegedly burgled by the FBI in 1971.\n\nSince the 1999 Seattle WTO protests, there has been a small movement of activist law collectives. These groups are usually non-lawyer centered, run along anarchist principles (even if they do not explicitly identify as anarchist), and work as part of the movement for social justice. These law collectives are made up mostly or entirely of non-lawyers. They are located in cities including Philadelphia; Washington, DC; New York; Madison; Portland; Oakland; and Montreal, Quebec, Ottawa, Ontario, and Toronto, Ontario in Canada. Also, since June 2009, the Minnesota Law Collective has been open in St. Paul, Minnesota.\n\nThis new generation of law collective works to assist people in providing their own legal support. They give \"trainer trainings\" so people can give \"Know Your Rights\" and other workshops to their communities; teach people to provide legal support for their affinity groups or for specific protests; and to explain the law in general and law collective work in particular.\n\nLaw collectives have been central in the defense of activists from criminal prosecution in such protests including the Seattle WTO protests in November 1999; the \"A16\" World Bank and International Monetary Fund protests in 2000; the Republican and Democratic convention protests, also in 2000; the Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA) protests in 2001 and 2004; protests by the Ontario Coalition Against Poverty; in protests around the US against the war in Iraq in 2003; in New York, Oakland, and Chicago during the Occupy movement in 2011; and in after unarmed black men were killed by police officers in Ferguson and Baltimore in 2014 and 2015.\n"}
{"id": "33974062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33974062", "title": "Leon Keer", "text": "Leon Keer\n\nLeon Keer (born 1980, Utrecht, Netherlands) is a Dutch pop-surrealist artist. \nHe has created work on canvas and (\"3D\") artwork on the streets across the world. Leon Keer is a leading artist in anamorphic street art. His art has been showcased in Europe, the United States, Russia, Mexico, the United Arab Emirates, Australia, New Zealand, and several Asian countries. In addition to using optical illusion, he often presents his art by adding new technologies, such as augmented reality and video mapping. The art is temporary, but the images are shared all over the world via social media.\n\nLeon generally paints contemporary themes which involves environmental concerns and raises questions about the livability in this world.\n\nLeon Keer designs and creates 2-D, 3-D and 4-D street art in the Netherlands and abroad. The 3-D Lego terracotta army is one of those creations. It was painted at the 2011 international Sarasota Chalk Festival.\n\nAt 2010 festival in Sarasota he made a surreal street painting with Little red riding hood and Alice in Wonderland together, fighting against evil as main characters in the image.\n\nThe anamorphic painting Piggy Bank was a Japanese debut for Leon Keer in 2013 and a 3d street art debut for Fukuoka.\n\nExperimenting with Augmented Reality combined with anamorphic art \n\nMalta Gummy bears - artist Leon Keer created 3D art for Malta street art festival \n\nKeer is often confused with Ego Leonard, the anonymous guerilla artist.\n\n"}
{"id": "36614964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36614964", "title": "List of cases of law enforcement brutality in Pakistan", "text": "List of cases of law enforcement brutality in Pakistan\n\nThis is a list of notable cases of law enforcement brutality (), including police brutality in Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "426894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426894", "title": "List of national and state libraries", "text": "List of national and state libraries\n\nA national library is established by the government of a nation to serve as the pre-eminent repository of information for that country. Unlike public libraries, they rarely allow citizens to borrow books. Often, they include numerous rare, valuable, or significant works; such as the Gutenberg Bible. National libraries are usually notable for their size, compared to that of other libraries in the same country. Some national libraries may be thematic or specialized in some specific domains, beside or in replacement of the 'main' national library.\n\nSome national entities which are not independent but who wish to preserve their particular culture, have established a national library with all the attributes of such institutions, such as legal deposit.\n\nMany national libraries cooperate within the National Libraries Section of the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) to discuss their common tasks, define and promote common standards and carry out projects helping them to fulfil their duties. National libraries of Europe participate in The European Library. This is a service of The Conference of European National Librarians (CENL).\n\nThe list below is organized alphabetically by country, according to the list of sovereign states, including, at its end an 'other states' section for non-sovereign states. A \"♦\" indicates a national library of a constituent country or dependent state. It is listed under the sovereign state which governs that entity. Sovereign states are listed even when they have no national library or when the existence and name of a national library could not yet be ascertained. Other states, constituent countries and dependent states are listed only if they have a national library.\n\nA state library is established by a state to serve as the preeminent repository of information for that region.\n\n\n\n\nThe member states of the Swiss Confederation are the 26 cantons of Switzerland. The (German \"Kantonsbibliothek\", French \"Bibliothèque cantonale\", Italian \"Biblioteca cantonale\", Romansh \"Biblioteca chantunala\") are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10588973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10588973", "title": "List of youth empowerment organizations", "text": "List of youth empowerment organizations\n\n\"This is a list of organizations that promote, advocate, or otherwise affiliate with youth empowerment. This is an incomplete list which can or may never satisfy any objective standard for completeness.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6981212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6981212", "title": "Lungga language", "text": "Lungga language\n\nLungga (also spelled Luga, Luqa) is a Malayo-Polynesian language spoken in the Solomon Islands.\n"}
{"id": "7964812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7964812", "title": "Marakkalage", "text": "Marakkalage\n\nMarakkala is the modern colloquial term for Muslims, although Marakkalage is another uniquely Karava ancestral name and is also used by several traditional Karava families of Sri Lanka todate. Variant forms are : \"Maha Marakkalage, Arasa Marakkalage, Andra Marakkalage, Antinna Marakkalage, Kodi Marakkalage, Loku Marakkalage, Manna Marakkalage, Sandra Marakkalage\" and Marakkala Malimige\n\nThe name Marakkalage derives from the type of craft Marakkar (Marakkalam in Tamil means Wooden Ship) used in trade and warfare by the rulers of the Kuru Mandala coast (the region of the Kurus) and Sri Lanka. This may be an allusion to the Muslim Arabic traders who were the prominent shipmen of pre and early Colonial Sri Lanka. They were also used in their naval battles against the Portuguese, Dutch, British and other Europeans in the 16th, 17th and 18th century. The ancestors of the families bearing these names may have been Muslim traders, or the owners or commanders of such vessals.\n\nGallappathige and Manavige (Maha Navi), Malimage (deriving from Malimar/Malimam) meaning ship's captain was also bestowed as an honor.\n\nThe Karavas claim to be the traditional martial and naval community of Sri Lanka and the preservation of that naval tradition in such mediaeval names is of interest.\n\nA stamp issued by India shows the Marakkar war-paroe, a boat that could carry 30-40 men and could be sailed or rowed in the sea as well as through lagoons and narrow waters. These crafts and the more ancient Maha Oru were also used in their naval battles against the Portuguese in the 16th century to attack Portuguese ships. The last of the traditional Sinhala sailing ships were known as Maha Oru and Yatra Oru.\n\n\nQueyroz Fr. The Temporal and Spiritual Conquest of Ceylaö,\n\n"}
{"id": "51264954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51264954", "title": "Miss Earth 2016", "text": "Miss Earth 2016\n\nMiss Earth 2016, the 16th Miss Earth pageant, was held on 29 October 2016 at the Mall of Asia Arena, Pasay City, Metro Manila, Philippines. 83 delegates from different countries and territories competed for this year's prestigious and coveted beauty title with the theme \"Empowered to make a Change\".\n\nAngelia Ong, Miss Earth 2015 of the Philippines, crowned her successor Katherine Espín of Ecuador as Miss Earth 2016, getting Ecuador's second Miss Earth crown after its victory in 2011.\n\nThis year's edition also features the newly polished and modified crown created by Florida-based jeweler, \"Ramona Haar\". The crown's original design from the 2009 edition of the pageant to enhance the crown's general appearance and to have an intimate fit to the head of the winner. The confirmation was announced by Miss Earth Organization through their official Facebook account on 30 June 2016.\n\nNotes <br>\n\n\nThe distinguished panel of judges during the pageant finals are:\n\nOn 30 August 2016, Miss Earth announced through their official Facebook page that the 2016 edition of the pageant took place on October 29 at the Mall of Asia Arena – an indoor arena located at the Bay City in Pasay City, Metro Manila. This is the 14th time for the Philippines and 11th time for Metro Manila to host the pageant. This year's edition also marks 1st time for MOA Arena to stage the pageant finals.\n\n\n\"To sort this table by delegate, total medal count, or any other column, click on the icon next to the column title.\"\n\nA special mini-pageant was held on October 8 at Hannah's Beach Resort and Convention Center, Pagudpud, Ilocos Norte. Ten selected candidates competed in evening gown competition, swimsuit competition and question and answer portion. Here are the results:\n\nA special fashion show was held on October 17 at Barcelona Ruins Park, Barcelona, Sorsogon. 27 selected candidates (Group 1) competed in long gowns made by a Filipino designer. Here are the results:\n\nThe following are the 83 delegates who competed for the coveted Miss Earth crown:\n\n\n\nLast competed in 2012:\n\nLast competed in 2013:\n\nLast competed in 2014:\n\n\n\n\n\nMiss Earth 2016 delegates who previously competed or will be competing at other international beauty pageants:\n\n"}
{"id": "33803920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33803920", "title": "Money services business", "text": "Money services business\n\nA money services business (MSB) is a legal term used by financial regulators to describe businesses that transmit or convert money. The definition was created to encompass more than just banks which normally provide these services to include non-bank financial institutions.\n\nAn MSB has specific meanings in different jurisdictions, but generally includes any business that transmits money or representatives of money, provides foreign currency exchange such as Bureaux de change, or cashes cheques or other money related instruments. It is often used in the context of Anti Money Laundering (AML) legislation and rules.\n\n"}
{"id": "36727038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36727038", "title": "Nigerian braille", "text": "Nigerian braille\n\nSeveral braille alphabets are used in Nigeria. For English, Unified English Braille has been adopted. Three other languages have been written in braille: Hausa, Igbo, and Yoruba. All three alphabets are based on English readings, with the addition of letters particular to these languages. Punctuation is as in English Braille.\n\nThe letters of these languages beyond the basic Latin alphabet are as follows:\n\nHausa includes\n\nfrom English \"q, sh, st, ed\" (international second \"d\"), and three derived letters:\n\nHausa is presumably written in braille in Niger as well, since \"Ethnologue\" 17 reports that Zarma is written in braille in that country. However, this need not mean it uses the same alphabet as Nigerian Hausa.\n\nIgbo Braille has\n\nfrom English \"q, ch, gh, sh,\" and six other letters with common international/African values:\n\nYoruba Braille also has\n\n(from English \"q, sh\"), and three derived letters:\n\nThe vowel assignments follow international conventions.\n\n"}
{"id": "5802060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5802060", "title": "Ontario Telephone Service Commission", "text": "Ontario Telephone Service Commission\n\nThe Ontario Telephone Service Commission (OTSC) was a quasi-judicial regulatory agency which regulated independent telephone companies (that is, those other than Bell Canada) in Ontario, Canada. It reported to the provincial legislature through the minister of transportation and communications.\n\nIt served as the regulator for the independent companies until April 26, 1994, when a decision by the Supreme Court of Canada in the case Téléphone Guevremont Inc. v. Quebec (Régie des télécommunications), [1994] 1 S.C.R. 878\ntransferred Canada's provincially regulated telephone companies to federal jurisdiction, meaning that they would be regulated by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission.\n\n\nGrindlay, Thomas. \"A History of the Independent Telephone Industry in Ontario\". 1975. \n"}
{"id": "3421321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3421321", "title": "Positive disintegration", "text": "Positive disintegration\n\nThe theory of positive disintegration (TPD) by Kazimierz Dąbrowski is a theory of personality development. Unlike mainstream psychology, Dąbrowski's theoretical framework views psychological tension and anxiety as necessary for growth. These \"disintegrative\" processes are therefore seen as \"positive\", whereas people who fail to go through positive disintegration may remain for their entire lives in a state of \"primary integration\", lacking true individuality. Advancing into disintegration and into the higher levels of development is predicated on having developmental potential, including overexcitabilities, above-average reactions to stimuli.\n\nUnlike some other theories of development such as Erikson's stages of psychosocial development, it is not assumed that even a majority of people progress through all levels. TPD is not a theory of stages, and levels do not correlate with age.\n\nKazimierz Dąbrowski (1902–1980), a Polish psychiatrist and psychologist, developed the Theory of Positive Disintegration which culminated in his 1964 publication of the book by the same name, \"Positive Disintegration\". He was heavily influenced by his Catholic upbringing which taught personal sacrifice and perpetual torment. His experience as a victim of medical torture for several months as a member of the Polish resistance, being only one of the 36 surviving psychiatrists in Poland out of the 400 practicing at the beginning of the war, informed his world view. He pursued a lifelong obsession with self-mutilation resulting in his semi-autobiographical 1937 work, \"Psychological Basis of Self Mutilation.\" He believed that the key to the treatment of mental illness was intense personal suffering and hence marked the self-infliction of suffering as essential to personal development. \n\nDąbrowski's theory of personality development emphasised several major features including:\n\n\nDąbrowski observed that most people live their lives in a state of \"primary or primitive integration\" largely guided by biological impulses (\"first factor\") and/or by uncritical endorsement and adherence to social convention (\"second factor\"). He called this initial integration Level I. Dąbrowski observed that at this level there is no true individual expression of the autonomous human self. Individual expression at Level I is influenced and constrained by the first two factors.\n\nThe first factor channels energy and talents toward accomplishing self-serving goals that reflect the lower instincts and biological ego—its primary focus is on survival and self-advancement. Often talents are used in antisocial or asocial ways. For example, at the lowest edge of Level I many criminals display this type of selfish behavior. They advance their own goals at the expense of others.\n\nThe second factor, the social environment (milieu) and peer pressure, constrains individual expression and creativity by encouraging a group view of life and discouraging unique thought and expression. The second factor externalizes values and morals, thereby externalizing conscience. Social forces shape expectations. Behavior and one's talents and creativity are funneled into forms that follow and support the existing social milieu. \"My mom says we should always be aware of what our lawn looks like because we want other people to think well of us when they drive by.\" Because conscience is derived from an external social context, so long as society holds ethical standards, people influenced by the second factor will behave ethically. However, if a society becomes corrupt, people strongly influenced by second factor will not dissent. Socialization without individual examination leads to a rote and robotic existence (the \"robopath\" described by Ludwig von Bertalanffy). Individual reactions are not unique, they are based upon social contexts (\"I cry at funerals and laugh at weddings—everyone does\"). According to Dąbrowski, people primarily motivated by second factor represent a significant majority of the general population.\n\nDąbrowski felt that our society was largely influenced by these lower two factors and could be characterized as operating at Level I. For example, our emphasis on corporate success (\"a dog eat dog mentality\") means that many CEOs operate on the basis of first factor—they will quickly sacrifice another to enhance their own advancement. As well, our educational, political, corporate, and media systems are self-promoting and discourage real examination or individual autonomy—the second factor. Alternatively, social justifications are often used: \"of course I break the speed limit, everyone does.\" Or a soldier may explain that he or she was simply \"following orders\". Thus, this external value system absolves the individual of any individual responsibility.\n\nDąbrowski also described a group of people who display a different course: an individualized developmental pathway. These people break away from an automatic, rote, socialized view of life (which Dąbrowski called negative adjustment) and move into and through a series of personal disintegrations. Dąbrowski saw these disintegrations as a key element in the overall developmental process. Crises challenge our status quo and cause us to review our self, ideas, values, thoughts, ideals, etc. If development continues, one goes on to develop an individualized, conscious and critically evaluated hierarchical value structure (called positive adjustment). This hierarchy of values acts as a benchmark by which all things are now seen, and the higher values in our internal hierarchy come to direct our behavior (no longer based on external social mores). These higher, individual values characterize an eventual second integration reflecting individual autonomy and for Dąbrowski, mark the arrival of true human personality. At this level, each person develops his or her own vision of how life ought to be and lives it. This higher level is associated with strong individual approaches to problem solving and creativity. One's talents and creativity are applied in the service of these higher individual values and visions of how life could be—how the world ought to be. The person expresses his or her \"new\" autonomous personality energetically through action, art, social change and so on.\n\nAdvanced development is often seen in people who exhibit strong developmental potential (\"DP\"). Developmental potential represents a constellation of genetic features, expressed and mediated through environmental interaction. Many factors are incorporated in developmental potential but three major aspects are highlighted: overexcitability (OE), specific abilities and talents, and a strong drive toward autonomous growth, a feature Dąbrowski called the \"third factor\".\n\nThe most evident aspect of developmental potential is overexcitability (OE), a heightened physiological experience of stimuli resulting from increased neuronal sensitivities. The greater the OE, the more intense are the day-to-day experiences of life. Dąbrowski outlined five forms of OE: psychomotor, sensual, imaginational, intellectual, and emotional. These overexcitabilities, especially the latter three, often cause a person to experience daily life more intensely and to feel the extremes of the joys and sorrows of life profoundly. Dąbrowski studied human exemplars and found that heightened overexcitability was a key part of their developmental and life experience. These people are steered and driven by their value \"rudder\", their sense of emotional OE. Combined with imaginational and intellectual OE, these people have a powerful perception of the world.\n\nAlthough based in the nervous system, overexcitabilities come to be expressed psychologically through the development of structures that reflect the emerging autonomous self. The most important of these conceptualizations are dynamisms: biological or mental forces that control behavior and its development. Instincts, drives and intellectual processes combined with emotions are dynamisms. With advanced development, dynamisms increasingly reflect movement toward autonomy.\n\nThe second arm of developmental potential, specific abilities and talents, tends to serve the person's developmental level. As outlined, people at lower levels use talents to support egocentric goals or to climb the social and corporate ladders. At higher levels, specific talents and abilities become an important force as they are channeled by the person's value hierarchy into expressing and achieving the person's vision of his or her ideal personality and his or her view of how the world ought to be.\n\nThe third aspect of developmental potential (DP), which is simply referred to as 'the third factor', is a drive toward individual growth and autonomy. The third factor is critical as it applies one's talents and creativity toward autonomous expression, and second, it provides motivation to strive for more and to try to imagine and achieve goals currently beyond one's grasp. Dąbrowski was clear to differentiate third factor from free will. He felt that free will did not go far enough in capturing the motivating aspects that he attributed to third factor. For example, an individual can exercise free will and show little motivation to grow or change as an individual. Third factor specifically describes a motivation—a motivation to become one's self. This motivation is often so strong that in some situations we can observe that one needs to develop oneself and that in so doing, it places one at great peril. This feeling of \"I've gotta be me\" especially when it is \"at any cost\" and especially when it is expressed as a strong motivator for self-growth is beyond the usual conceptualization ascribed to free will.\n\nA person whose DP is high enough \"will generally\" undergo disintegration, despite any external social or family efforts to prevent it. A person whose DP is low will \"generally not\" undergo disintegration (or positive personality growth) even in a conducive environment.\n\nThe notion that some people have an innate potential for development that is determined by a higher sensitivity or overexcitability (analogous to the first aspect of DP) and by a related tendency to develop individual differences and autonomy from the group (analogous to the third aspect of DP) was independently developed by Elaine Aron (see Highly sensitive person) (although it should be noted that Aron's approach is substantially different from Dąbrowski's).\n\nDąbrowski called OE \"a tragic gift\" to reflect that the road of the person with strong OE is not a smooth or easy one. Potentials to experience great highs are also potentials to experience great lows. Similarly, potentials to express great creativity hold the likelihood of experiencing a great deal of personal conflict and stress. This stress both drives development and is a result of developmental conflicts, both intrapsychic and social. Suicide is a significant risk in the acute phases of this stress. The isolation often experienced by these people heightens the risk of self-harm.\n\nDąbrowski advocated autopsychotherapy, educating the person about OEs and the disintegrative process to give him or her a context within which to understand intense feelings and needs. Dąbrowski suggested giving people support in their efforts to develop and find their own self-expression. Children and adults with high DP have to find and walk their own path, often at the expense of fitting in with their social peers and even with their families. At the core of autopsychotherapy is the awareness that no one can show anyone else the \"right\" path. Everyone has to find their own path for themselves. As Joseph Campbell described the knights on the Grail Quest: If a path exists in the forest, don't follow it, for though it took someone else to the Grail, it will not take you there, because it is not your path.\n\nThe first and fifth levels are characterized by psychological integration, harmony, and little inner conflict. There is little internal conflict at Level I because just about every behavior is justified—it is either good for the individual and is therefore \"right\", or the individual's society endorses it and it is therefore \"right\". In either case, with a high level of confidence the individual acts as he or she perceives anyone else would, and does what anyone is \"supposed to do\". At Level V there is no internal conflict because what a person does is always in accord with their own internal sense of values. Of course, there is often external conflict at both Levels I and V.\n\nLevels II, III and IV describe various degrees and types of dis-integration and literal disease.\n\nDąbrowski was very clear that the levels he presents \"represent a heuristic device\". In the process of development the structures of two or even three contiguous levels may exist side by side, although it must be understood that they exist in conflict. The conflict is resolved when one of the structures is eliminated, or at least comes under complete control of another structure.\n\nAs outlined above, the first level is called primitive or primary integration. People at this level are often influenced primarily by either prominent first factor (heredity/impulse) and/or second factor (social environment) forces. The majority of people at Level I are integrated at the environmental or social level (Dąbrowski called them average people); however, many also exhibit shades of both impulse and socialization. Dąbrowski distinguished the two subgroups of Level I by degree: \"the state of primary integration is a state contrary to mental health. A fairly high degree of primary integration is present in the average person; a very high degree of primary integration is present in the psychopath\". Marked by selfishness and egocentrism (both reticent and explicit), those at level one development generally seek self-fulfillment above all, justifying their pursuits through a sort of \"it's all about me\" thinking; or, more simply put, they adhere strongly to the phrase \"the end justifies the means\", sometimes disregarding the severity of the \"means\". Many people who are considered \"leaders\" often fall into this category.\n\nA vast majority of people either do not break down their primitive integration at all, or after a relatively short period of disintegration, usually experienced at the time of adolescence and early youth, end in a reintegration at the former level or in partial integration of some of the functions at slightly higher levels, without a transformation of the whole mental structure.\n\nThe prominent feature of this level is an initial, brief and often intense crisis or series of crises. Crises are spontaneous and occur on only one level. These crises involve alternatives that may appear to be different but ultimately are on the same level.\n\nUnilevel disintegration occurs during developmental crises such as puberty or menopause, in periods of difficulty in handling some stressful external event, or under psychological and psychopathological conditions such as nervousness and psychoneurosis. Unilevel disintegration consists of processes on a single structural and emotional level; there is a prevalence of automatic dynamisms with only slight self-consciousness and self-control.\n\nConflicts on the same level (horizontal) produce ambitendencies and ambivalences: the person is equally attracted by different but equivalent choices on the same level (ambitendencies) and is not able to decide what to do because he or she has no real preference between the choices (ambivalences). If developmental forces are strong enough, ultimately, the person is thrust into an existential crisis: one's social rationales no longer account for one's experiences and there are no alternative explanations. During this phase, existential despair is the predominant emotion. The resolution of this phase begins as individually chosen values begin to replace social mores that have been ingrained by rote and are integrated into a new hierarchy of personal values. These new values often conflict with the person's previous social values. Many of the status quo explanations for the \"way things are,\" learned through education and from the social order, collapse under conscious, individual scrutiny. This causes more conflicts focused on the person's analysis of his or her own reactions to the world at large and of the behavior of self and others. Common behaviors and the ethics of the prevailing social order come to be seen as inadequate, wrong or hypocritical. Positive maladjustment prevails. For Dąbrowski, these crises represent a strong potential for development toward personal growth and mental health. Using a positive definition, mental health reflects more than social conformity: it involves a careful, personal examination of the world and of one's values, leading to the development of an individual personality.\n\nLevel II is a transitional period. Dąbrowski said you either fall back (reintegration on a lower level), end negatively, in suicide or psychosis or move ahead to Level III.\n\nThe transition from Level II to Level III involves a fundamental shift that requires a phenomenal amount of energy. This period is the crossroads of development: from here one must either progress or regress. The struggle between Dąbrowski's three factors reflects this transitional crisis: \"Do I follow my instincts (first factor), my teachings (second factor) or my heart (third factor)?\" The developmental answer is to transform one's lower instincts (automatic reactions like anger) into positive motivation, to resist rote and social answers, and to listen to one's inner sense of what one ought to do.\n\nLevel III describes a new type of conflict: a vertical conflict between two alternatives that are not simply different, but that exist on different levels. One is genuinely higher and the other is lower in comparison. These vertical conflicts initially arise from involuntary perceptions of higher versus lower choices in life. \"You just look at something, maybe for the 1000th time (to use the words of G. K. Chesterton), and it strikes you—you see this one thing differently and once you do, it changes things. You can no longer \"go back and see it the way you did before\".\" Dąbrowski called this vertical dimension multilevelness. Multilevelness is a gradual realization of the \"possibility of the higher\" (a phrase Dąbrowski used frequently) and of the subsequent contrasts between the higher and the lower in life. These vertical comparisons often illustrate the lower, actual behavior of a person in contrast to higher, imagined ideals and alternative idealized choices. Dąbrowski believed that the authentic individual would choose the higher path as the clear and obvious one to follow (erasing the ambivalences and ambitendencies of unilevel conflicts). If the person's actual behavior subsequently falls short of the ideal, internal disharmony and a drive to review and reconstruct one's life often follow. Multilevelness thus represents a new and powerful type of conflict, a conflict that is developmental in Dąbrowski's approach.\n\nThese vertical conflicts are critical in leading to autonomy and advanced personality growth. If the person is to achieve higher levels, the shift to multilevelness must occur. If a person does not have the developmental potential to move into a multilevel view, then he or she will fall back from the crises of Level II to reintegrate at Level I. In the shift to multilevelness, the horizontal (unilevel), stimulus-response model of life is replaced by a vertical and hierarchical analysis. This vertical view becomes anchored by one's emerging individual value structure, and all events are seen in relation to personal ideals. These personal value ideals become the personality ideal: how the person wants to live his or her life. As events in life are seen in relation to this multilevel, vertical view, it becomes impossible to support positions that favor the lower course when higher goals can be identified (or imagined).\n\nIn Level IV the person takes full control of his or her development. The involuntary spontaneous development of Level III is replaced by a deliberate, conscious and self-directed review of life from the multilevel perspective. This level marks the real emergence of the third factor, described by Dąbrowski as an autonomous factor \"of conscious choice (valuation) by which one affirms or rejects certain qualities in oneself and in one's environment\". The person consciously reviews his or her existing belief system and tries to replace lower, automatic views and reactions with carefully thought out, examined and chosen ideals. These new values will increasingly be reflected in the person's behavior. Behavior becomes less reactive, less automatic and more deliberate as behavioral choices fall under the influence of the person's higher, chosen ideals.\n\nSocial mores are reviewed and re-accepted by a conscious internalization when the individual feels it is appropriate. Likewise, when the person feels it is proper, a social value is reviewed and may be rejected to be replaced by a self perceived higher alternative value. One's social orientation comes to reflect a deep responsibility based on both intellectual and emotional factors. At the highest levels, \"individuals of this kind feel responsible for the realization of justice and for the protection of others against harm and injustice. Their feelings of responsibility extend almost to everything.\" This perspective results from seeing life in relation to one's hierarchy of values (the multilevel view) and the subsequent appreciation of the potential of how life could be, and ought to be, lived. One's disagreements with the (lower level) world are expressed compassionately in doing what one can to help achieve the \"ought\".\n\nGiven their genuine (authentic) prosocial outlook, people achieving higher development also raise the level of their society. Prosocial here is not just support of the existing social order. If the social order is lower and you are adjusted to it, then you also reflect the lower (negative adjustment in Dąbrowski's terms, a Level I feature). Here, prosocial is a genuine cultivation of social interactions based on higher values. These positions often conflict with the status quo of a lower society (positive maladjustment). In other words, to be maladjusted to a low-level society is a positive feature.\n\nThe fifth level displays an integrated and harmonious character, but one vastly different from that at the first level. At this highest level, one's behavior is guided by conscious, carefully weighed decisions based on an individualized and chosen hierarchy of personal values. Behavior conforms to this inner standard of how life ought to be lived, and thus little inner conflict arises.\n\nLevel V is often marked by creative expression. Especially at Level V, problem solving and art represent the highest and noblest features of human life. Art captures the innermost emotional states and is based on a deep empathy and understanding of the subject. Often, human suffering and sacrifice are the subjects of these works. Truly visionary works, works that are unique and novel, are created by people expressing a vision unrestrained by convention. Advances in society, through politics, philosophy and religion, are therefore commonly associated with strong individual creativity or accomplishments.\n\nThe theory of positive disintegration has an extremely broad scope and has implications for many areas. One central application applies to psychological and psychiatric diagnosis and treatment. Dąbrowski advocated a comprehensive, multidimensional diagnosis of the person's situation, including symptoms and developmental potentials.\n\nIf the disintegration appears to fit into a developmental context, then the person is educated in the theory and encouraged to take a developmental view of his or her situation and experiences. Rather than being eliminated, symptoms are reframed to yield insight and understanding into life and the person's unique situation.\n\nDąbrowski illustrated his theory through autobiographies of and biographies about those who have experienced positive disintegration. The gifted child, the suicidal teen or the troubled artist is often experiencing the features of TPD, and if they accept and understand the meaning of their intense feelings and crises, they can move ahead, not fall apart. The completion of an extensive autobiography to help the individual gain perspective on his or her past and present is an important component in the autopsychotherapy process. In this process, the therapist plays a very small role and acts more as an initial stimulus than an ongoing therapist. Dąbrowski asked clients to read his books and to see how his ideas might relate to their lives.\n\nFor Dąbrowski, the goal of therapy is to eliminate the therapist by providing a context within which a person can understand and help oneself, an approach to therapy that he called autopsychotherapy. The client is encouraged to embark on a journey of self-discovery with an emphasis on looking for the contrast between what is higher versus what is lower within his or her personality and value structure. The person is encouraged to further explore his or her value structure especially as it relates to the rationale and justification of positions. Discrepancies between values and behavior are highlighted. The approach is called autopsychotherapy to emphasize the important role that the individual must play in his or her own therapy process and in the larger process of personality development. The individual must come to see that he or she is in charge of determining or creating his or her own unique personality ideal and value structure. This includes a critical review of social mores and values that have been learned.\n\nDąbrowski was very concerned about what he called one-sided development, in which people display significant advanced development in only one aspect of life, usually intellectual. He believed that it is crucial to balance one's development.\n\nDąbrowski also encouraged people to see their reactions (overexcitabilities) and their phenomenological view of the world in the context of their developmental potential. The experience of, and reaction to, crises are a very important aspect of this approach and people are encouraged to experience personal crises with a positive and developmental view.\n\nDąbrowski reminds clients that without internal disease there is little stimulus for change or growth. Rather than trying to rapidly ameliorate symptoms, this approach encourages individuals to fully experience their feelings and to try to maintain a positive and developmental orientation to what they may perceive as strong depression or anxiety. Of course, this is a unique approach in today's world of seeking immediate and total relief of any unpleasant psychological experience (although it can be compared to Aron's to some extent).\n\nAnother primary focus is on education, in particular, over the past 25 years, on the experience of creative and gifted\nstudents. Dąbrowski hypothesized that these students will disproportionately show strong overexcitability and therefore will be prone to the disintegrative process.\n\nIn an appendix to Dąbrowski (1967), results of investigations done in 1962 with Polish youth are reported. Specifically, \"a group of gifted children and young people aged 8 to 23\" were examined (p. 251). Of the 80 youth studied, 30 were \"intellectually gifted\" and 50 were from \"drama, ballet, and plastic art schools\" (p. 251). Dąbrowski found that every one of the children displayed overexcitability, \"which constituted the foundation for the emergence of neurotic and psychoneurotic sets. Moreover it turned out that these children also showed sets of nervousness, neurosis, and psychoneurosis of various kinds and intensities, from light vegetative symptoms, or anxiety symptoms, to distinctly and highly intensive psychasthenic or hysterical sets\" (p. 253). Dąbrowski asked why these children should display such \"states of nervousness or psychoneurosis\" and suggested that it was due to the presence of OE (p. 255). \"Probably the cause is more than average sensitivity which not only permits one to achieve outstanding results in learning and work, but at the same time increases the number of points sensitive to all experiences that may accelerate anomalous reactions revealing themselves in psychoneurotic sets\" (p. 255).\n\nThe association between OE and giftedness appears to be borne out in the research (Lysy and Piechowski 1983; Piechowski 1986; Piechowski and Miller 1995). It appears that at the least OE is a marker of potential for giftedness/creativity. Dąbrowski's basic message is that the gifted will disproportionately display this process of positive disintegration and personality growth.\n\nThe theory is based on numerous key ideas:\n\n\nPeople have often equated Maslow's concept of self-actualization with Dąbrowski's level of secondary integration. There are some major differences between these two ideas. Fundamentally, Maslow described self-actualization as a process where the self is accepted \"as is\", so both higher and lower aspects of the self are actualized. Dąbrowski introduces the notion that although the lower aspects may initially be intrinsic to the self, as human beings we are able to become aware of their lower nature. We are able to develop self-awareness into how we feel about these low levels—if we feel badly about behaving in these lower ways, then we are able to cognitively and volitionally decide to inhibit and eliminate these behaviors. In this way, the higher aspects of the self are actualized while the lower aspects are inhibited and, for Dąbrowski, this is what is unique about humans and sets us apart from other animals— No other animal is able to differentiate their lower instincts and therefore can not inhibit their animalistic impulses. Dąbrowski has gone beyond Maslow's idea of self-actualization and it is not appropriate to equate the two authors on this point.\n\nBoth Dąbrowski and his work have faced many obstacles. Personally, he was severely affected by both World Wars. His work went against the grain as a humanistic theory promoting personal growth in the political atmosphere of Poland in the 1950s and 1960s. Another problem has been language. Dąbrowski wrote in Polish and translated his works into French and Spanish. English was the last language he learned and likely the most difficult in terms of capturing the subtleties of his ideas. In spite of these problems, Dąbrowski persevered with his studies of human development, developed his theory and practiced psychiatry all his life.\n\nDąbrowski died in 1980 and his students went on to explore careers of their own. Many of these students continue to study and speak on the theory, most advancing a deeply personal understanding of what the theory means to them.\n\nSince 1980, there has been a small but consistent demand for Dąbrowski's works. This demand has largely evolved in the United States where Michael Piechowski applied his vision of the theory to gifted education. Many in education and in gifted education have looked to Dąbrowski's theory to help provide a context for their students. Although a small part of the overall theory, this aspect has generated a number of Master's and Ph.D. theses and introduced the theory to a large audience.\n\nThe reader interested in Dąbrowski has faced a serious scarcity of resources, especially of Dąbrowski's English works. His books are long out of print and rare, and his papers are held by a few people but not circulated. There are also many Polish works by Dąbrowski (about 20 books) on the theory, on psychotherapy, on education and on philosophy that have not been translated into English.\n\nOne severe hurdle to the investigation and study of the theory of positive disintegration is the fact that no suitable psychological test exists that measures any Dąbrowskian constructs well. The most widely known instrument, the Overexcitability Questionnaire—Two, has poor psychometric properties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10612829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10612829", "title": "Public anthropology", "text": "Public anthropology\n\nPublic anthropology, according to Robert Borofsky, a professor at Hawaii Pacific University, \"demonstrates the ability of anthropology and anthropologists to effectively address problems beyond the discipline - illuminating larger social issues of our times as well as encouraging broad, public conversations about them with the explicit goal of fostering social change\" (Borofsky 2004).\n\nMerrill Singer has criticized the concept of public anthropology on the grounds that it ignores applied anthropology. He writes: \"given that many applied anthropologists already do the kinds of things that are now being described as PA, it is hard to understand why a new label is needed, except as a device for distancing public anthropologists from applied anthropologists\" (Singer 2000: 6). Similarly, Barbara Rylko-Bauer writes: \"one has to ask what is the purpose of these emerging labels that consciously distinguish themselves from applied/practicing anthropology? While they may serve the personal interests of those who develop them, it is hard to see how they serve the broader interests of the discipline\" (Rylko-Bauer 2000: 6). Eric Haanstad responds to Singer's claim by arguing that public anthropology does not necessarily entail the exclusion of applied anthropology (Haanstad 2001a). Alan Jeffery Fields defends the concept of public anthropology by claiming it is \"a useful trope for one important reason: it calls attention to the fact that there is a division between public and academic perceptions\" (Fields 2001a).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "550451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=550451", "title": "Regional power", "text": "Regional power\n\nIn international relations since the late 20th century, a regional power is a term used for a state that has power within a geographic region. States which wield unrivalled power and influence within a region of the world possess regional hegemony.\n\nRegional powers shape the polarity of a regional area. Typically, regional powers have capabilities which are important in the region but do not have capabilities at a global scale. Slightly contrasting definitions differ as to what makes a regional power. The European Consortium for Political Research defines a regional power as: \n\"A state belonging to a geographically defined region, dominating this region in economic and military terms, able to exercise hegemonic influence in the region and considerable influence on the world scale, willing to make use of power resources and recognized or even accepted as the regional leader by its neighbours\".\n\nThe German Institute of Global and Area Studies states that a regional power must:\n\n\nBelow are states that have been described as regional powers by international relations and political science academics, analysts, or other experts. These states to some extent meet the criteria to have regional power status, as described above. Different experts have differing views on exactly which states are regional powers. States are arranged by their region, and in alphabetic order.\n\nPrimary, or major, regional powers (also known as \"pivotal powers\") are placed in the major regions as identified by analysts. Secondary, or minor, regional powers are listed within their subregions. Major regional powers are indicated in bold and minor regional powers in normal font.\n\n\nThe United States is the primary geopolitical force in the Western Hemisphere. Canada, despite being a middle power, is not a regional power because it is militarily secured by U.S. hegemony and financially comfortable by its dependence on the robust U.S. economy.\n\nIn the past, Spain and Portugal were the dominant powers in the region but following decolonization in the first half of the 19th century, the major powers became Mexico, Brazil, and Argentina.\n\nHistorically, China was the dominant power in East Asia. But, at the beginning of the early 20th century, the Empire of Japan became an important player in World War I as one of the Allied powers. With economic turmoil, Japan's expulsion from the League of Nations, and its interest in expansion on the mainland, Japan became a major player in World War II as one of the Axis powers. China became a key player in World War II as one of the Allied powers.\n\nSince the late 20th century, regional alliances, economic progress, and contrasting military power have changed the strategic and regional power balance in Asia. In recent years, a re-balancing of military and economic power among countries such as China and India has resulted in significant changes in the geopolitics of Asia. China and Japan have also gained greater influence over regions outside Asia. With close economic and military ties with the United States, South Korea and Japan are seen as major regional powers \"containing\" the communist regimes of China and North Korea.\n\n\n\nFrance, Germany, Italy and United Kingdom are regarded as the Big Four of Europe. Historically, dominant powers in this region created large colonial empires worldwide (such as the British, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, German and Dutch empires). Most of the continent is now integrated as a consequence of the enlargement of the European Union.\n\nTranscontinental countries like Russia are able to exert regional influence in large areas of the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "5046901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5046901", "title": "Rufaa people", "text": "Rufaa people\n\nRufaa is an ethnic group in Sudan. They speak Sudanese Arabic. The population of this group is at several 100,000. Most persons in this minority are Muslims.\n"}
{"id": "43086667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43086667", "title": "Serbenda", "text": "Serbenda\n\nSerbenda (/\"Srbenda\"; plural: Serbendas, Serbian: Србенде/\"Srbende\") is a term for a Serb who is thoroughly and uncompromisingly devoted to all things Serbian. Generally considered a term of endearment by Serbs, it can sometimes contain negative connotations, referring to nationalist aggression and heightened tribalism.\n\nSerbian writer and scholar Jovan Skerlić in 1925 described the \"Serbenda\" as being an \"autochthonous, raw Serb, without a trace of anything foreign\".\n\nUniversity of Alberta professor of Cultural Anthropology Marko Živković says the term \"carries the connotations of rusticity, simplicity, and traditional patriarchal values-the opposite of high culture polish and cosmopolitan sophistication\".\n\nThe word \"Srbenda\" (anglicized \"Serbenda\") is an augmentative of \"Srbin\" (\"a Serb\").\n\n"}
{"id": "51369378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51369378", "title": "Solomon Islands Sign Language", "text": "Solomon Islands Sign Language\n\nSolomon Islands Sign Language is the local deaf sign language of the Solomon Islands. There are significant between the sign of the main islands of Guadalcanal and Malaita, and presumably elsewhere. The capital Honiara, where deaf people from all nine provinces have gathered, has the most developed Deaf community, and there is a nearby Deaf village at Aruliho. SISL is all domains of life, with admixture of Signed English and AUSLAN signs.\n\nThere is a relatively high incidence of deafness in the Solomon Islands due to poverty-related diseases such malaria, meningitis, rubella, and otitis media. Attitude towards SISL is very positive, and the community worries that AUSLAN, which is taught at school, does not reflect their cultural and language needs. This has been confirmed by a pilot linguistic investigation.\n"}
{"id": "33827299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33827299", "title": "Songora", "text": "Songora\n\nThe Songora or Shongora (\"pl.\" Basongora, \"sing.\" Musongora) also known as \"Bacwezi\", \"Chwezi\", \"Huma\" or \"Bahuma\") are a traditionally a pastoralist people of the Great Lakes region of Central Africa located in Western Uganda and Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. They have distinctive customs and speak 'Rusongora' an African language that is originates from Proto-Kordofanian and is similar to Runyankole and Rutoro. The Basongora population has reported as numbering 25,000 in 2015 in Uganda. Some Basongora also live in Eastern Congo.\n\nThe colonial and neo-colonial governments in Central Africa instituted programs to encourage the Basongora to abandon their traditional lifestyle, and most of the territory traditionally owned by the Songora community has been appropriated for use as national parks or has been settled and occupied by other communities, notably the Batoro and Bakonzo. Also Songora territory has been partitioned into several districts and is distributed across Uganda and Congo.\n\nThe traditional lifestyle of the Basongora is notable for its adaptation to dry savana and scrublands, as well as mountainous terrain.\n\nThe Basongora are a mixed Nilotic/Bantu group in East and Central Africa, traditionally residing in the foothills and plains at the floor of the western arm of the Great Rift Valley and the hills around the base of the Rwenzori Mountain Range. The Songora traditional economy was largely based on cattle-rearing, as well as salt-manufacture and trade in iron. The political organization of the Songora was a form confederacy of several states united by a parliament called Muhabuzi, and a constitutional monarchy led by a trimviate that consisted of an empress dowager (Omu'Gabe'kati), a female ruler (Omu'Go), and a male ruler (Omu'Kama). The confederacy emerged from a single Songora state that dates back to the 12th century consisted of several provinces including Kisaka-Makara, Kitagwenda, Bugaya, Bunyaruguru and Kiyanja .\n\nAccording to their own oral history, the Basongora emerged from the ancient empires of the Batembuzi constituted by the dynasties of the Kushites, Axumites, the Shenzi [Zenj], and the Chwezi. The traditional homeland of the Basongora is the region centred in the foothills and plains that surround the Rutshuru and Rwenzori mountain ranges.\n\nSome of the most notable Songora monarchs include Kyomya Bwachali who died around 1850, and was the maternal grandfather of King Ntare V of Nkore kingdom. The last precolonial King of Busongora was King Kasigano. He was deposed in 1907 by the British, austensiby for his having sought to ally himself with the Belgians in the Congo . Busongora was then partitioned and divided between the Congo and Uganda Protectorate, and the portions that fell within Uganda were further sub-divided into several districts, all of which were then annexed to the kingdoms of Toro and Nkore . The Kingdom of Rwenzururu formed in the later part of the 20th century on the territory of Busongora . \n\nBetween 1924 and 1933 there was an outbreak of the rinderpest that decimated the cattle populations of the Basongora especially in Kishaka-Makara chiefdom, forcing them to disperse to other areas of Uganda and the eastern Congo. Basongora believe the outbreak began as a result of a virulent drugs vaccination program started by the colonial government. The biggest group that fled to the Congo did not return to the area until 1964 due to the strife caused by the Mulele rebellion there.\n\nIn 1925, Parc Nationale des Virunga was created by the Belgian colonial authorities encompassing areas of the chiefdom of Kiyanja (of the Bamooli clan), Kakunda (now called Kyavinyonge), Rwemango, Makara, Kashansha and Bugaya among others and pressure to protect the adjoining ecosystem in Uganda led to the establishment of game reserves around Lake George (Known as Rweishamba by Basongora)and Lake Edward (locally known as Rweru) between 1906 and 1950. Several name changes followed and Kazinga National Park was gazetted in 1952 and in 1954 it was renamed Queen Elizabeth National Park by the colonial administration. This left only limited land for the pastoral Basongora. In 1940s the colonial government introduced cotton growing in Busongora. By coincidence, the best soil and suitable climate for cotton growing was in the Bwengo area and other plains of the Busongora County in Kasese. Although some remained in the park – albeit illegally, thousands of others moved across the border with their herds into the Virunga National Park in the Congo.\n\nBetween the 1940 and 1950s,the cotton growing enterprise lured particularly the Bakonjo from the highlands to the lowlands . By 1962, the Rwenzururu Freedom Movement had also displaced some Bakonjo from the mountains, forcing them to settle in parts of Busongora that had not been gazetted as protected areas .In 1962 Basongora started returning to their original areas only to find that the Toro Development Company (TDC) that wound up in 1970, had leased some of their land, and was running projects such as the Mubuku Irrigation Scheme.\n\nWhen the cotton industry plummeted in the 1970s, the general Ugandan public lost interest in cotton, thus giving the Basongora pastoralists a chance to resettle in vast plains of Nyakatonzi. When the NRM government introduced the decentralization policy,it was hijacked by the extremist fringe of the Bakonjo and was seen as an opportunity to displace and subjugate the Basongora . This coincided with peak cotton production between 1987 and 1989 and it is in the same period that Basongora were displaced from their ancestral lands of Bukangara and Rweihingo .\n\nOn 12 May 2012 Basongora revived their ancient kingdom that had been dismembered and abolished during the colonial occupation one hundred years prior. On 1 July 2012, the Songora installed Bwebale Ivan Rutakirwa Rwigi IV as the king of \"BuSongora Kingdom\", and claimed twenty sub-counties of Uganda as their territory. The sub-counties include: Muhokya, Bugoye, Nyakatonzi, Katwe, Karusandara, Mubuku, Ibuga, Hamukungu, Kasenyi, Busunga, and Katunguru, among others . The kingdom also claimed their ancestral areas of Shema, Bunyaruguru and Kitagwenda in Uganda, as well as Virunga National Park in the Congo, as part of the kingdom .\n\nKing Rwigi IV died on 28 April 2015. \n\nNB: The dates are approximate for most of the early rulers.\n\n1 Kogyere I Rusija-Miryango [Empress] [1090-1120] \n\n2 Kogyere II [Empress] [1120-1130] \n\n3 Kyomya I kya Isiimbwa [1130-1140]\n\n4 Mugarra I [1140-1150]\n\n5 Ndahura I kya Rubumbi [1150-1160]\n\n6 Mulindwa [1160-1170]\n\n7 Wamara Bbala Bwigunda [1170-1200] \n\n8 Kyomya II Rurema [1200-1210]\n\n9 Kagoro [1210-1220] \n\n10 Kakara-ka-Shagama [1220-1250] \n\n11 Njunaki Kamaranga [Empress] [1250-1280] \n\n12 Shagama-rwa-Njunaki [1280-1300]\n\n13 Wahaiguru Rukuba-Ntondo [1300-1310]\n\n14 Kateboha [1310-1330] \n\n15 Nyakahuma [Queen Regnant] [1330-1375] \n\n16 Kirobozi [1375-1400]\n\n17 Mugarra II wa Kirobozi [1400-1420]\n\n18 Buyonga bwa Kirobozi [1420-1430] \n\n19 Kyomya III [1430-1460] \n\n20 Nkome [1460-1485] \n\n21 Ihiingo [1485-1500] \n\n22 Goro [1500-1525]\n\n23 Kasheshe [1525-1550] \n\n24 Kazoba [1550-1575]\n\n25 Nyabongo I [1575-1600] \n\n26 Makora [1600-1625]\n\n27 Nyabongo II Kikundi Nyakwirigita [1625-1655]\n\n28 Mugonga Rutegwankondo [1655-1685]\n\n29 Kitami kya Nyawera [Queen Regnant] [1685-1725] \n\n30 Rwigi I Wakoli [1725-1730]\n\n31 Buremu I Rushoita [1730-1740] \n\n32 Kantunguru [Queen Regnant] [1740-1750]\n\n33 Kyokoora [1750-1775] \n\n34 Mairanga ga Kyokoora [1775-1800] \n\n35 Kyomya IV Bwachali bwa Mairanga [1825-1850] \n\n36 Kikamba [1850-1860] \n\n37 Rwigi II Kyeramaino Rweshakaramyambi [1860-1880]\n\n38 Bulemu II Kigwamabere [1880-1886] \n\n39 Kogyere III Ikamiro [Queen Regnant] [1886-1889] \n\n40 Rwigi III Mugasa Kakintule [1889-1891]\n\n41 Rutairuka [1891] \n\n42 Njugangya Katurumba [1891]\n\n43 Kuriafire [1891-1894] \n\n44 Kaihura [1894-1901] \n\n45 Kasigano [1901-1907] \n\n46 Rwigi IV Bwebale Rutakirwa [2012-2015]\n\nOther notable figures in ancient Songora history include at least two empresses; Nyakahuma, and Kitami rwa Nyawera. The Queen Kiboga of Nkore was a Songora. She was also mother to Nkore's King Ntare V, and sister to King Kaihura of the Songora. Princess Kantunguru of Nkore was also a Songora and has a town named after her in western Uganda. Many of the rulers of states of Rwanda, Mpororo, Bunyoro, Toro and Nkore chose their wives from among the Songora. Other notable Songora kings in the pre-colonial era include: Kyomya III father of the founder of Bunyoro - Rukidi Mpuga; Bulemu I Rushoita, Rwigi II Kyeramaino Rweshakaramyambi, Nyabongo Kikundi Nyakwirigita, Ihiingo, Goro, Nyabongo I, Kasheshe (for whom the municipality/city of Kasese is named), Rutairuka, Makora, and Kaihura.\n\nDuring the post colonial era, beginning in the early 1960s, the Songora didn't formally have rulers recognized by the central governments in Uganda and Congo/Zaire. However, there are several notable Songora personalities in various fields that have played a key role in maintaining the presence of the community. Among them are Timothy Bazarrabusa (RIP) an educationalist who served as Uganda's first High Commissioner to London, Amon Bazira (RIP), who served as Director of Intelligence, as Chair of the Security & Defence Parliamentary Committee, and as State Minister of Lands, Waters and Mineral resources in Uganda from 1981-85. Gen. James Kazini (RIP) was commander of the Uganda people's defense force, Lt Col Jet Mwebaze (RIP) a commander within the UPDF. Other notable Basongora include the Noble Sirasi Kisankara (RIP), The Prophet Yombo Yowasi [RIP], the Rwabukurukuru family, Wilson Isingoma, Boaz Kafuda, Prof. Mbabi-Katana, Enoch Rukidi, Kosia Mpazi, the Rwamashonje family,the Rubuubi family,the Rwakashamba family, Yefesi Saiba, and Ananais Mulumba.\n\nSongora society is strongly pastoral. Cattle motifs form an important part of the language. Cattle have an important place in the imagination, poetry and art of the community. The disciplines required in the management of cattle have a great import impact on the diet, health and appearance of the Songora. Age determines seniority in social relations, and men and women are considered equal. The Songora are generally monogamous. Traditionally the Songora were monotheistic.\n\nThe Songora reacted to a tetanus epidermic in the 1880s by requiring everyone in the community to remove the four front lower teeth, as a means to force-feed medication to victims of the disease. When the epidermic ended, many Songora continued with the teeth removal even though it was no longer necessary in the era of syringes and other means of treatment.\n\nIn recent decades the traditional Songora territory has yielded interesting artefacts that are of great value to general human history. The Ishango Bone is one of the items that was found in Songora territory. While the Eastern Arm of the Great Rift Valley located in Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania has yielded the greatest amount of ancient human fossils, the northern portion of the Western Arm of the Rift Valley - home of the Songora - remains largely unexplored, although it appears to contain important fossils. The lack of exploration has been caused by the high level of war and civil conflict in the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "3940964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3940964", "title": "Time of the Gypsies", "text": "Time of the Gypsies\n\nTime of the Gypsies (, \"Dom za vešanje\", literally \"Home for Hanging\") is a 1988 Yugoslav coming-of-age fantasy crime drama film by Serbian director Emir Kusturica. Filmed in Romani and Serbo-Croatian, \"Time of the Gypsies\" tells the story of a young Romani man with magical powers who is tricked into engaging in petty crime. It is widely considered to be one of Kusturica's best films. The film was recorded in Sarajevo, Skopje and Milan, by the Forum Sarajevo. The film was selected as the Yugoslav entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 62nd Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee.\n\nThe film revolves around Perhan, a Romani teenager with telekinetic powers and his passage from boy to man that starts in a little village in Yugoslavia and ends in the criminal underworld of Milan. The film deals with magic realism.\n\nThe film's soundtrack was composed by Goran Bregović.\n\nPerhan lives with his devoted grandmother Khaditza, his lame sister Danira and his dissolute uncle Merdzan. He wants to marry a girl named Azra, but her mother won't allow it, as Perhan is the illegitimate son of a Slovenian soldier who had an affair with Perhan's late mother. Ahmed, the \"Gypsy sheik,\" comes to the village with his brothers. Merdzan loses his clothes playing cards with Ahmed's brothers, and comes home desperate for money so that he can repay. It is raining and not finding any money, he accuses the grandmother of hiding the money from him and lifts the frame of the house up (using a rope and a truck), so that it is suspended in mid-air as the rain comes down on Perhan, his grandmother and Danira. Very soon after, Khaditza is summoned to use her powers to save Ahmed's sick son, Roberto, which Khaditza does. For repayment, she proposes a deal with Ahmed - to pay for Danira's leg to be healed at a hospital in Ljubljana. Perhan goes with Danira, promising his grandmother not to leave her, but Ahmed asks where will he stay and convinces him to go to Milan. At first Perhan wants to make money honestly, but after being dragged through the mud, Perhan begins stealing and squirreling money away in a shack.\n\nAfter being double-crossed by his brother Sadam, Ahmed appoints Perhan boss of the operation. Now relatively rich, Perhan goes home, where he is enraged to find Azra is pregnant. Perhan refuses to believe that the baby is his. They marry with the condition that she sell the baby. Perhan is also disappointed to find that the house Ahmed promised to build him is not being built at all, and that Danira was not operated on, but forced to be a beggar as part of Ahmed's money operation. On their wedding night, Azra tells him the child is theirs, and was conceived when they made love on the Feast of St George. Still wearing her wedding dress, Azra dies after giving birth to a boy while levitating mid-air. Because Ahmed leaves with the baby, which we discover later is also named Perhan, he is raised by Ahmed's crew.\n\nAfter four years of searching, Perhan reunites with Danira in Rome, who leads him to Perhan Jr., whom Perhan now accepts as his child. Perhan drops the children off at the train station, promising to meet up with them after buying an accordion for his son and a present (sponges) for grandmother. The boy tells him he is mad at him because he will not return, and he will not get an accordion. Perhan assures him he will, \"Cross my gypsy heart,\" but immediately runs out of the station to settle the score with Ahmed, who is about to be married. Perhan arrives at the wedding and kills Ahmed with a fork, using his telekinetic powers. He also kills Ahmed's brothers, but he is in turn killed by Ahmed's new wife. At the funeral, the grandmother passes out drinks to everyone and Perhan Jr. goes outside the house, peers through the window at his dead father, breaks the glass and steals the golden coins put on his father's eyes. Merdzan notices, and follows him out in the rain, as the child runs away hidden under a cardboard box. Merdzan is about to catch him up and pick up the board, but seems to have second thoughts, stops, and starts running in another direction.\n\n\nAt the 1989 Cannes Film Festival, Emir Kusturica won the Best Director Award and the film was also nominated for a Palme d'Or (Golden Palm). At the 26th Guldbagge Awards in Sweden, it won the award for Best Foreign Film. In addition, \"Time of the Gypsies\" was nominated for Best Foreign Film at the 1990 César Awards in France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31092329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31092329", "title": "Tokhi", "text": "Tokhi\n\n\"Tokhi\" (Pashto: توخی) is a Ghilji Pashtun tribe found throughout southern, eastern, southeastern and northeastern Afghanistan. Historically they have mostly lived in what is now Zabul Province and Kandahar in Afghanistan.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2888901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2888901", "title": "Vlachs of Serbia", "text": "Vlachs of Serbia\n\nThe Vlachs (endonym: \"Rumînji\" or \"Rumâni\", / \"Vlasi\") are an ethnic minority in eastern Serbia, culturally and linguistically related to Romanians. They mostly live in the Timočka Krajina region (roughly corresponding to the districts of Bor and Zaječar), but also in Braničevo and Pomoravlje districts. A small Vlach population also exists in Smederevo and Velika Plana (Podunavlje District), and in the municipalities of Aleksinac and Kruševac (Rasina District). \n\nVlach is an exonym for the eastern Romance speaking community in the Balkans, which resulted from the occupation and colonisation of the region during the Roman Empire. Northeastern Serbia is home to several Vlach/Romanian communities who speak dialects similar to ones in parts of western Romania: in Banat, Transylvania, and Oltenia (Lesser Wallachia). These are the Ungureni (\"Ungurjani\", Унгурјани), Munteni (\"Munćani\", Мунћани) and Bufeni (\"Bufani\", Буфани). Today, about three quarters of the Vlach population speak the Ungurean subdialect which is similar to the Romanian spoken in Banat. In the 19th century other groups of Romanians originating in Oltenia (Lesser Wallachia) also settled south of the Danube. These are the Țărani (\"Carani\", Царани), who form some 25% of the modern population and speak a variety of Oltenian dialect. From the 15th through the 18th centuries large numbers of Serbs also migrated across the Danube, but in the opposite direction, to both Banat and Țara Româneasca. Significant migration ended by the establishment of the kingdoms of Serbia and Romania in the second half of the 19th century. The Vlachs of northeastern Serbia share close linguistic and cultural ties with the Vlachs in the region of Vidin in Bulgaria as well as the Romanians of Banat and Oltenia (Lesser Wallachia). Some authors consider that the majority of Vlachs/Romanians in Timočka Krajina are descendants of Romanians that migrated from Hungary in the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nThe language spoken by the Vlachs consists of two distinct Romanian subdialects spoken in regions neighboring Romania: one major group of Vlachs speaks the dialect spoken in Mehedinți County in western Oltenia, while the other major group speaks a dialect similar to the one spoken in the neighboring region of Banat.\n\nThe Romanian language is not in use in local administration, not even in localities where members of the minority represent more than 15% of the population, where it would be allowed according to Serbian law.\n\nThe Romanian Orthodox Church in Malajnica, built in 2004, is the first Romanian church in eastern Serbia in 170 years. Before its construction, Romanians in Timoč were not allowed to hear liturgical services in their native language. Most Vlachs of Eastern Serbia are Orthodox Christians who had belonged to the Serbian Orthodox Church since the 19th century. This changed on 24 March 2009, when Serbia recognized the authority of the Romanian Orthodox Church in Valea Timocului and the confessional rights of the Vlachs.\n\nThe 2006 Serbian law on religious organizations did not recognize the Romanian Orthodox Church as a traditional church, as it had received permission from the Serbian Church to operate only within Vojvodina, but not in Timočka Krajina. At Malajnica, a Vlach priest belonging to the Romanian Orthodox Church encountered deliberately-raised administrative barriers when he attempted to build a church. Other Romanian Orthodox churches are planned or under construction in Jasikovo, Ćuprija, Bigrenica and Samarinovac. Additionally, a Romanian Orthodox monastery is under construction in Malajnica. The Romanian Orthodox churches in Eastern Central Serbia are subordinated to the \"Protopresbyteriat Dacia Ripensis\" with its seat in Negotin. The protopresbyteriat is subordinated to the Romanian Orthodox diocese Dacia Felix with its seat in Vršac.\n\nThe relative isolation of the Vlachs has permitted the survival of various pre-Christian religious customs and beliefs that are frowned upon by the Orthodox Church. Vlach magic rituals are well known across modern Serbia. The Vlachs celebrate the ospăț (\"hospitium\", in Latin), called in Serbian \"praznik\" or \"slava\". The customs of the Vlachs are very similar to those from Southern Romania (Walachia).\n\nThe Vlach community is divided into several groups, each speaking their own dialectal variant:\n\n\nIn the 2002 census 40,054 people in Serbia declared themselves ethnic Vlachs, and 54,818 people declared themselves speakers of the Vlach language. The Vlachs of Serbia are recognized as a minority, like the Romanians of Serbia, who number 34,576 according to the 2002 census. On the census, the Vlachs declared themselves either as Serbs, Vlachs or Romanians. Therefore, the \"real\" number of people of Vlach origin could be much greater than the number of recorded Vlachs, both due to mixed marriages with Serbs and also Serbian national feeling among some Vlachs.\n\nIn the 2011 census 35,330 people in Serbia declared themselves ethnic Vlachs, and 43,095 people declared themselves speakers of the Vlach language. The Vlachs of Serbia are recognized as a minority. Therefore, the number of people of Vlach origin could be bigger than the number of recorded Vlachs, both due to mixed marriages with Serbs and also Serbian national feeling among some Vlachs.\n\nThe following numbers from census data suggest the possible number of Vlachs:\n\nThe Vlach (Romanian) population of Central Serbia is concentrated mostly in the region bordered by the Morava River (west), Danube River (north) and Timok River (south-east). See also: List of settlements in Serbia inhabited by Vlachs.\n\nAccording to some Romanian and Western European organizations, around 250,000 speakers of Romanian live in eastern Serbia.\n\nThe community is known as \"Vlasi\" (\"Vlachs\") in Serbian, while their endonym is \"Rumînji\", virtually the same as the Romanian endonym . The Vlach community is highly assimilated into Serbian society, bilingual in the Serbian and Vlach languages, and adhering to the Eastern Orthodo Church.\n\nDespite their recognition as a separate ethnic group by the Serbian government, Vlachs are cognate to Romanians in the cultural and linguistic sense. Some Romanians, as well as international linguists and anthropologists, consider Serbia's Vlachs to be a subgroup of Romanians. Additionally, the Movement of Romanians-Vlachs in Serbia, which represents some Vlachs, has called for the recognition of the Vlachs as a Romanian national minority, giving them rights similar to those of the Romanians of Vojvodina. However, the results of the last census showed that most Vlachs of Eastern Serbia opted for the Serbian exonym \"vlasi\" (= Vlachs) rather than \"rumuni\" (= Romanians). As a result of serbianization, most Vlachs declared themselves to be \"Serbs\" on censusus taken by Communist Yugoslavia, but the number of those who preferred to declare themselves as Vlachs or Romanians significantly increased from 1991 (16,539 declared \"vlasi\" and 42 declared \"rumuni\") to 2001 (39,953 declared \"vlasi\" and 4,157 declared \"rumuni\").\n\nRomania has given modest financial support to the Vlachs in Serbia for the preservation of their culture and language, since at present the Vlachs' language is not recognized officially in any localities where they form a majority, there is no education in their mother tongue, and there is no Vlach media or education funded by the Serbian state. There are also no church services in Vlach. Until very recently in the regions populated by Vlachs the official policy of the Serbian Orthodox church opposed the giving of non-Serbian baptismal names.\n\nOn the other hand, some Vlachs consider themselves to be simply Serbs that speak the \"Vlach language\".\n\nVlach is commonly used as a historical umbrella term for all Latin peoples in Southeastern Europe (Romanians proper or Daco-Romanians, Aromanians, Megleno-Romanians, Istro-Romanians). After the foundation of the Romanian state in the 19th century, Romanians living in the Romanian Old Kingdom and in Austria-Hungary were only seldom called \"Vlachs\" by foreigners, the use of the exonym \"Romanians\" was encouraged even by officials, and the Romanian population ceased to use the exonym \"Vlach\" for their own designation. Only in the Serbian and Bulgarian Kingdom, where the officials did not encourage the population to use the modern exonym \"Romanian\", was the old designation \"Vlach\" retained, but the term \"Romanian\" was used in statistical reports (but only up to the Interwar period, when the designation \"Romanian\" was changed into \"Vlach\"). For this reason, the Romanians of Vojvodina (hence those who lived in Austria-Hungary) today prefer to use the modern exonym \"Romanian\", while those of Central Serbia still use the ancient exonym \"Vlach\". However, both groups use the endonym \"Romanians\", calling their language \"Romanian\" (\"română\" or \"rumână\").\n\nIn some notes of the government of Serbia, officials recognise that \"certainly members of this population have similar characteristics with Romanians, and the language and folklore ride to their Romanian origin\". The representatives of the Vlach minority sustain their Romanian origin.\n\nThe ethnonym is \"Rumâni\" and the community \"Rumâni din Sârbie\", translated into English as \"Romanians from Serbia\". They are also known in Romanian as \"Valahii din Serbia\" or \"Românii din Timoc\". Although ethnographically and linguistically related to the Romanians, within the Vlach community there are divergences on whether or not they belong to the Romanian nation and whether or not their minority should be amalgamated with the Romanian minority in Vojvodina.\n\nIn a Romanian-Yugoslav agreement of November 4, 2002, the Yugoslav authorities agreed to recognize the Romanian identity of the Vlach population in Central Serbia, but the agreement was not implemented. In April 2005, 23 deputies from the Council of Europe, representatives from Hungary, Georgia, Lithuania, Romania, Moldova, Estonia, Armenia, Azerbaïdjan, Denmark and Bulgaria protested against Serbia's treatment of this population.\n\nThe Senate of Romania postponed the ratification of Serbia`s candidature for membership in the European Union until the legal status and minority right of the Romanian (Vlach) population in Serbia is clarified.\n\nPredrag Balašević, president of the Vlach party of Serbia, accused the government of assimilation by using the national Vlach organization against the interests of this minority in Serbia.\n\nSince 2010, the Vlach National Council of Serbia has been led by members of leading Serbian parties (Democrat Party and Socialist Party), most of whom are ethnic Serbs having no relation to the Vlach/Romanian minority. Radiša Dragojević, the current president of Vlach National Council of Serbia, who is not a Vlach, but an ethnic Serb, stated that no one has the right to ask the Vlach minority in Serbia to identify themselves as Romanian or veto anything. \nAs a response to mister Dragojević`s statement, the cultural organizations \"Ariadnae Filum\", \"Društvo za kulturu Vlaha - Rumuna Srbije\", \"Društvo Rumuna - Vlaha „Trajan“\", \"Društvo za kulturu, jezik i religiju Vlaha - Rumuna Pomoravlja\", \"Udruženje za tradiciju i kulturu Vlaha „Dunav“\", \"Centar za ruralni razvoj - Vlaška kulturna inicijativa Srbija\" and the Vlach Party of Serbia protested and stated that it was false.\n\nAccording to a 2012 agreement between Romania and Serbia, members of the Vlach community that choose to declare as Romanians will have access to education, media and religion in the Romanian language.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10850895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10850895", "title": "West Mallee", "text": "West Mallee\n\nWest Mallee is a statistical subdivision defined under the Australian Standard Geographical Classification, and therefore used by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. It is one of three subdivisions of the Mallee statistical division of the Australian state of Victoria. It consists of three statistical local areas: Buloke (S) - North, Buloke (S) - South and Mildura (RC) - Pt B.\n"}
{"id": "8790583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8790583", "title": "Youth On Board", "text": "Youth On Board\n\nSince 1994, Youth on Board (YOB) has been a leader in the field of youth organizing and youth-adult partnerships in the Boston area and beyond. YOB is a youth-led, adult supported program where young people of color have the space and tools to recognize and utilize the power they hold to dismantle political and economic structures that reinforce inequity. YOB believes in the power of young people to transform their communities by recognizing that when young people are fully engaged—when their voices are heard, their opinions matter, and their unique perspective is respected—they commit themselves to making their schools, their communities, and their own lives better. \nYOB has worked in more than 5 countries, 27 states, and over 100 schools and isa project of YouthBuild USA.\n\nYOB was founded by Karen Young after working as a national student organizer with COOL. In 1993 Karen met Jenny Sazama and received initial funding from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. Jenny was brought in as YOB's associate director and later became co-director with Karen. Jenny became the director of Youth on Board when Karen moved on to do other projects in 2010. . In 2010 Rachel Gunther became YOB's Associate Director. \n\nYOB is widely known for the contributions to Project 540, a national student engagement program for 100,000 students in more than 100 high schools across the country. With funding from several sources, including W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Boston Public Schools, and others, Youth on Board has published numerous important materials. Most notable is \"15 Points to Successfully Involving Youth in Decision-Making.\" Other publications by YOB include \"Your Guide to Youth Board Involvement and the Law\", and many others. \n\nIn 2014 YOB was one of eight organizations selected by the Susan Crown Exchange to be part of their innovative research and documentation project on social emotional learning called Preparing Youth to Thrive. \n\nBoston Student Advisory Council (BSAC) \n\nThe Boston Student Advisory Council (BSAC) is a group of student leader from Boston public schools who work on issues that affect young people both inside and outside of school. BSAC is made up entirely of low-income students of color who as key stakeholders are at the center of the decisions that affect them the most. Through a partnership with the Boston Public School district (BPS), YOB co-administers this citywide body of student leaders that represents most high schools in the district. \nYOB and BSAC work directly with young people as they develop an understanding of the ways economic and political power is distributed in our society. They learn how to change structures that reinforce inequity. YOB and BSAC students have led organizing efforts, forged relationships with district and city-leaders, created and changed school policies, lobbied for increased student representation on the School Committee and other decision-making bodies, and advanced the voice and status of young people throughout Boston. Projects often operate on multiple levels, addressing district-level systems change, as well as systems change on the state level, while developing workable models of student-led campaign development and movement-building for replication across the country. Most critically, all of BSAC’s projects and campaigns are developed by young people themselves.\nConsulting and Technical Assistance\nYouth on Board provides trainings and technical assistance on various areas, including youth/adult partnership, youth leadership development, adultism, and establishing a student advisory council. \nSupport the Youth Voice in Decision-Making Movement\nYOB supports youth voice in decision-making on a local and national level through speaking engagements, coalitions, consultations, writing articles, participating in research studies, and writing and selling publications. They are regularly called upon by foundations, think tanks, Federal and State DOE, media outlets, and researchers. We have written countless articles in publications such as YouthToday and Advancing Social Justice in the United States. \n\nTake Campaigns to Scale\nUsing BSAC as an \"incubator\" of programing, Youth on Board takes highly successful campaigns to scale. To date we have done this with:\n \n"}
