{"id": "2242706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2242706", "title": "Abba Jofir", "text": "Abba Jofir\n\nMoti Abba Jobir Abba Dula is a member of the Oromo people who was King of the Gibe Kingdom of Jimma (reigned 1932). He was the grandson of Abba Jifar II. He aligned himself and the Oromo people and served fascist Italian occupation of Ethiopia. \n\nWhen Abba Jifar II grew senile in his later years, Abba Jobir attempted to seize the throne of the Kingdom of Jimma. However, Emperor Haile Selassie responded quickly and sent military forces against Abba Jobir. They brought him back to Addis Ababa, where he was imprisoned.\n\nFollowing the Italian invasion, Abba Jobir was made Governor over part of the Italian East Africa province of Galla-Sidamo. He proved useful to the occupiers, helping with Italian propaganda broadcasts to the Arabic-speaking world. In return, they allowed him a bodyguard of ten armed men, a privilege given to few Ethiopian potentates during the occupation. Following the Italian defeat in 1942, Abba Jobir was imprisoned again, and later given amnesty.\n"}
{"id": "1009067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1009067", "title": "Adam (murder victim)", "text": "Adam (murder victim)\n\n\"Adam\" was the name police gave to an unidentified young boy whose torso was discovered in the River Thames, in London, United Kingdom on 21 September 2001. Investigators believe the boy was likely from southwestern Nigeria and that several days before his murder, he was trafficked to the United Kingdom for a muti ritual sacrifice. To date, nobody has been charged with Adam's murder and his true identity remains unknown.\n\nOn 21 September 2001, the torso of a young boy was discovered in the River Thames, near Tower Bridge in central London. Dubbed \"Adam\" by police officers, the unidentified remains belonged to a black male, around four to seven years old, who had been wearing orange girls' shorts.\n\nThe post-mortem showed that Adam had been poisoned, his throat had been slit to drain the blood from his body and his head and limbs had been expertly removed. Further forensic testing examined his stomach contents and trace minerals in his bones to establish that Adam had only been in the United Kingdom for a few days before he was murdered and that he likely came from a region of southwestern Nigeria near Benin City known as the birthplace of voodoo. This evidence led investigators to suspect that Adam was trafficked to Britain specifically for a muti killing, a ritual sacrifice performed by a witchdoctor that uses a child's body parts to make medicinal potions called \"muti\".\n\nUnable to find a match for Adam in databases of missing children in Britain and Europe, investigators made requests to the public for assistance. However, the story initially only received moderate publicity due its proximity to the September 11 terrorist attacks in the United States. In the UK, coverage and interest in the case increased over the next year and rewards were offered for information leading to the killers' conviction or to Adam's identification, but the story had not yet received much publicity in Nigeria. \n\nWhen the investigation had reached an impasse in 2002, London officials flew to Johannesburg, South Africa, where Nelson Mandela, Nobel Prize winner and former president of South Africa, made a public appeal requesting any information that might be relevant to help the police in London identify Adam. Mandela's appeal was broadcast all over Africa and translated into tribal languages, including Yoruba, the local language in the region that investigators linked to Adam.\n\nIn 2003, London Metropolitan police travelled to South Africa to consult detectives and muti experts from the Occult unit of the SAPS. The experts suggested that the orange shorts meant Adam was related to his killers. In Muti rituals, the colour red is the colour of resurrection: accordingly at least one of Adam's killers was related to him and was trying to apologise to his soul, praying that he might rise again. \n\nThe police subsequently travelled to Nigeria and launched a campaign to track Adam's parents. Despite visiting elementary schools and looking at reported missing children in the region, there was no success.\n\nOn 29 March 2011, it was reported that the torso belonged to that of a 6-year-old named Ikpomwosa, after a television crew managed to track down a woman who used to care for him in Germany, due to his parents being deported back to Nigeria. Joyce Osiagede, a mother of two, had told ITV London Tonight that she handed the 6-year-old to a man—reportedly named Bawa—who proceeded to take the child to London. Detectives have said that this is a \"major breakthrough\".\n\nIn February 2013, the BBC was contacted by Osiagede, who declared that she was prepared to tell them everything she knew about the boy. Osiagede revealed that the Adam's real name was in fact Patrick Erhabor and not Ikpomwosa. She also identified Bawa as Kingsley Ojo and said that she had wrongly identified a photograph that had been circulating in the press as Patrick when it was in fact of a friend's living son. However, police doubts about her mental state meant that these claims are doubted by detectives, and indeed Adam has never been formally identified. \n\nMetropolitan police believe the publicity surrounding the case has acted as a deterrent for further ritual crimes in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn July 2002, a Nigerian woman arrived in the United Kingdom from Germany, claiming to have fled from a Yoruba cult that practiced ritual murders. She claimed that they attempted to kill her son, and that she knew Adam was murdered in London by his parents. However, police searching her flat found orange shorts with the same clothing label as those found on Adam. In December 2002, she was deported back to Nigeria.\n\nSurveillance of the woman's associates brought the police to another Nigerian, a man named Kingsley Ojo. Searches of Ojo's house found a series of ritual items, but none of the DNA on the items matched Adam's DNA. In July 2004, Ojo was charged with child trafficking offences, and jailed for four years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20167085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20167085", "title": "Albert Aeschmann", "text": "Albert Aeschmann\n\nAlbert Aeschmann (born August 20, 1900, date of death unknown) was a Swiss weightlifter who competed in the 1924 Summer Olympics, in the 1928 Summer Olympics, and in the 1936 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn 1924 he finished fifth in the middleweight class.\n\nFour years later he finished fourth in the lightweight class at the 1928 Games.\n\nAt the 1936 Olympics he finished 13th in the middleweight class.\n\n"}
{"id": "18665128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18665128", "title": "Alfred Puffer", "text": "Alfred Puffer\n\nAlfred F. Puffer (1840 \"-\" July 1, 1875) was Deputy Collector of Customs at the United States Customs House in New York City. He was appointed to this office by Chester A. Arthur on October 1, 1873. He was an entry clerk. During the American Civil War Puffer served on the staff of General Benjamin F. Butler. He was a native of Massachusetts.\n\nPuffer died suddenly of apoplexy at his 24th Street, Manhattan, New York residence, in 1875. He left his office at the Customs House on the afternoon of June 30 and returned to his home. Feeling a warm sensation he unwisely resolved to take a bath. His wife summoned friends for assistance when he failed to respond to a knock on the bathroom door. They found him unconscious on the floor and a physician was quickly summoned. Puffer died the following morning at 9 a.m. He was survived by his wife and two children. His son Fred Puffer became a champion hurdler in the 1890s.\n"}
{"id": "51864202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51864202", "title": "Ambrose Bellot", "text": "Ambrose Bellot\n\nAmbrose Bellot (c. 1561 – 1637), of Downton in Devon was a Member of Parliament for East Looe in Cornwall in 1597.\n\nHe was the third son of Francis Bellott of Corsham, Wiltshire and of Bochym, Cornwall, by his wife Anne Mohun, a daughter of Reginald Mohun (1507/8-1567) of Hall, in the parish of Lanteglos-by-Fowey, and of Boconnoc, both in Cornwall, MP, an Esquire of the Body to Queen Elizabeth I. The Mohun family controlled one of the parliamentary seats of the pocket borough of East Looe in Cornwall, and Ambrose was in due course nominated by the Mohuns to that seat in 1597.\n\nBellot married twice:\n\nHe died intestate in 1637.\n"}
{"id": "911842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=911842", "title": "Annoyance", "text": "Annoyance\n\nAnnoyance is an unpleasant mental state that is characterized by such effects as irritation and distraction from one's conscious thinking. It can lead to emotions such as frustration and anger. The property of being easily annoyed is called irritability.\n\nVarious reasons exist for why one finds particular stimuli annoying. Measurement of annoyance is highly subjective. As an attempt at measurement, psychological studies on annoyance often rely on their subjects' own ratings of levels of annoyance on a scale. Any kind of stimuli can cause annoyance, such as getting poked in the side or listening to a song repeatedly. Many stimuli that one is at first neutral to, or even finds pleasant, can turn into annoyances from repeated continued exposure. One can often encounter this phenomenon with such media as popular music, memes, commercials, and advertising jingles, which by their very nature are continually repeated over a period of weeks or months.\n\nA study published in the \"International Journal of Conflict Management\" found that one's response to an annoyance, at least when the perceived cause is another person, escalate to more extreme levels as they go unresolved. It also found that one was more likely to blame the party who was causing the annoyance in the study, rather than one's self, for the annoyance as it escalated.\n\nPsychological warfare can involve creating annoyances to distract and wear down the resistance of the target. For example, in 1993, the United States' Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) played music \"specifically selected for its irritation ability\" on loudspeakers outside the Branch Davidian church in Waco, Texas in an attempt to bring about the surrender of David Koresh and his followers.\n\nIn the sense of \"nuisance\", the noun \"annoyance\" is found in the English \"Jury of Annoyance\" appointed by an act of 1754 to report upon obstructions in the highways.\n\n"}
{"id": "7213466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7213466", "title": "Arthur Black (humorist)", "text": "Arthur Black (humorist)\n\nArthur Raymond Black (30 August 1943 – 21 February 2018) was a Canadian humorist and radio personality best known as the longtime host, from 1983 to 2002, of \"Basic Black\" on CBC Radio One which had a weekly audience of more than 600,000 listeners. He also wrote a series of 19 humorous books and for 40 years wrote a weekly humour column which began in 1976 in a local Thunder Bay newspaper called \"Lakehead Living\" and at its peak was syndicated to more than 50 newspapers in Canada and internationally.\n\nBlack's father, also named Arthur, ran a stockyard in Toronto with his three brothers until his death in 1960. A year after his father's death, the younger Black moved to the rural community of Fergus, Ontario, where he had relatives, in order to finish high school and then returned to Toronto to study journalism at the Ryerson Institute of Technology.\n\nHe travelled in Europe for four years, earning some money on freelancing jobs such as writing for a tourist guide.\n\nReturning to Canada, he worked variously as a door-to-door encyclopedia salesman, oil tanker deckhand, cow wrangler at the Ontario Public Stock Yards, sheet metal apprentice, and plumber's assistant.\n\nHis broadcasting career started with CBC Radio in Toronto when he was hired in 1972 to contribute livestock reports to \"Radio Noon\". In 1974, he moved to CBC Radio station. CBQ in Thunder Bay to host that station's version of \"Radio Noon\" He was also a contributor to the regional weekend program \"Fresh Air\" for several years until \"Basic Black\" began as a national variety program, initially originating from Thunder Bay before relocating to Toronto a few years into its run, and finally to Vancouver in 1995 until it concluded its run.\n\nFor television, he wrote and hosted \"Weird Homes\" and \"Weird Wheels\" for a total of five years on the Life Network in the late 1990s.\n\nBlack is the author of 19 books and a three-time winner of the Stephen Leacock Memorial Medal for Humour as well as winning a National Magazine Award for Humour, and an ACTRA Award for Best Opinion/Commentary, a Cadogan Award for Best Weekly Newspaper Column, and the Ohio State Award for Best Children's Series.\n\nBlack moved to Salt Spring Island, British Columbia in 1995. After ending \"Basic Black\" in 2002, he could still be heard for about a decade, twice a week, on CBC Victoria's local \"All Points West\" program with a segment called \"Planet Salt Spring\". In retirement, Black volunteered as a driver for Meals on Wheels, raised money for local causes and developed a hobby carving walking sticks.\n\nIn 2017, he became involved in local politics campaigning for a \"no\" vote in a referendum on incorporating Salt Spring Island as a municipality saying \"We've got something special here. Don't try to change Salt Spring. Let Salt Spring try to change you.\" His position prevailed.\n\nBlack was diagnosed with Stage IV terminal pancreatic cancer on 2 January 2018 and blogged in the last weeks of his life about what he called his \"final journey\". In excruciating pain when the cancer became much more aggressive,\nBlack chose to die with medical assistance at Lady Minto Hospital on Salt Spring Island on 21 February 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23423534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23423534", "title": "Australian Artificial Intelligence Institute", "text": "Australian Artificial Intelligence Institute\n\nIn Australia, the Australian Artificial Intelligence Institute (Australian AI Institute, AAII, or AI) was a government-funded research and development laboratory for investigating and commercializing Artificial Intelligence, specifically Intelligent Software Agents.\n\nThe AAII was started in 1988 as an initiative by the Hawke government and closed in 1999. It was backed by support from the Computer Power Group, SRI International and the Victorian State Government. The director of the group was Michael Georgeff who came from SRI, contributing his experience with the PRS and vision in the domain of Intelligent agents. It was located in the Melbourne suburb of Carlton before moving to more spacious premises in the city centre of Melbourne, Victoria. At its peak it had more than 40 staff and took up two floors of an office building on the corner of Latrobe and Russell Streets.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the AAII spun out Agentis International (Agentis Business Solutions) to address the commercialization of the developed technology. Another company, Agent Oriented Software (AOS) was formed by a number of ex-AAII staff to pursue agent technology developing JACK Intelligent Agents. After the AAII shutdown, those staff that remained and the intellectual property were transferred to Agentis International.\n\nThis section summarizes a selection of the software and commercial projects that came out of the AAII: \n\n\nOver the course of its existence, the AAII released more than 75 of public technical notes . This section lists an available selection of these notes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46396565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46396565", "title": "Ben Adams (baseball)", "text": "Ben Adams (baseball)\n\nBen Adams was a baseball player in the Negro Leagues. From 1953 to 1963, he played for a number of teams, including the Kansas City Monarchs. and Fox Jeweler's City.\n\nAdams was from Norfolk, Virginia. He first played for the Indianapolis Clowns in 1953. He retired in 1969, ending his career with 11 years with the Monarchs.\n"}
{"id": "53052351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53052351", "title": "Bo's Place", "text": "Bo's Place\n\nBo's Place, established in 1990, is a nonprofit organization based in Houston, Texas. It offers free support programs for children, ages 3 to 18, and their families who have experienced the death of a child or an adult in their immediate family, as well as programs for grieving adults. Services include grief support groups offered in English and Spanish, community outreach programs, education and training, and an information and referral line staffed by mental health professionals. The referral line assists individuals that have experienced a death as well as family, friends, co-workers or other concerned individuals who want guidance to support the bereaved. Bo's Place serves over 1,200 children and adults each year and families stay an average of 14 to 16 months.\n\nBo’s Place is funded by donations. Approximately 40% of Bo’s Place revenue comes from special events such as its Annual Hearts of Hope Luncheon, with the remainder sourced from foundations, corporations, faith-based organizations, individuals and other organizations. Bo’s Place is not a United Way organization and does not receive government funding.\n\nThe initial Bo’s Place model was based on The Dougy Center in Portland, Oregon, a support program described as the first of its kind in the United States. Bo's Place offers age appropriate evening groups for children ages 5 to 18. Groups are facilitated by trained volunteers under the supervision of licensed mental health professionals. Children are given a safe environment to share with others to assist the healing process. Learning and sharing activities are designed to assist children in understanding and expressing the complex feelings that are part of the grieving process.\n\nIn early 1990, Karen Kraft Pennebaker, LCSW, a Houston social worker, met with representatives from The Compassionate Friends, The Houston Chapter of the Center for Attitudinal Healing, the New Age Hospice (now The Houston Hospice, and Dr. Irvin Kraft, co-founder of the Houston Group Psychotherapy Society to discuss starting a free telephone referral network to provide contact information for free grief services to individuals and families grieving a death loss. Cissy Lowe Dickson, the Regional Coordinator of Compassionate Friends, expressed interest in joining Karen. The result was The Grief Center of Texas (TGCOT), incorporated in May 1990 as a 501(c)3 non-profit corporation. Karen, Cissy and Ron Downey, a funeral director for Forest Park Lawndale Funeral Home of Houston were the original board members. The initial goal was to refer to any group or institution offering free grief services, establish an Annual Networking Luncheon, and educate the public about the importance of grieving the death of a loved one.\n\nAt the second TGCOT Annual Networking Luncheon, Houston area grief services providers recommended organizing a national conference on grief. This led to the \"1993 National Conference on Grief: From Ending to Beginning\" which was held in Houston on March 26–27, 1993. Guest speakers included Elisabeth Kübler-Ross. Dr. Charles A Corr.., Dr. Kenneth L Doka, Dr. Elizabeth Harper Neeld, Margaret Rose Caddy, RN, founder of the Houston Hospice, Dr. Baruch Brody, Dr. Stephen Pierrel, founder of Mental Health Services Services of the Houston Fire Department, and Melody Beattie. Over six hundred professionals and lay persons attended.\nIn the fall of 1993, TGCOT elected to use the Conference proceeds to create a program for grieving children and their families. Karen Pennebaker discovered the Dougy Center in Portland, Oregon whose innovative, established model had been duplicated across the country. Cissy Dickson retired and Karen began the search for a house.\n\nIn January 1994, Interfaith Ministries for Greater Houston (IM)'s Executive Director, David Leslie, offered the Family Connection House at 5501 Austin. Karen invited Larry Neuhaus, a Houston investor, Board Member of Houston's Episcopal High School and co-founder of Camp For All to help investigate the opportunity. IM offered a two-year lease for $1 per year.\n\nIn July 1994, work began to clean, paint, repair, renovate and furnish the house. A number of community organizations assisted the effort, including The Harris County Youth and Family Services Division, St. Luke's United Methodist Church, First Presbyterian Church of Houston, Congregation Emanu El, First United Methodist Church of Pasadena, and Episcopal High School. Several area businesses donated carpet, paint and building materials.\n\nIn February 1995, the first volunteers were ready to train and a new name was needed for the program. The Board felt the name should reflect the spirit of the program and hope for healing, and recommended naming the center in honor of Laurence \"Bo\" Bosworth Neuhaus, son of Larry and Lindy Neuhaus, who died of liver cancer in 1985 at age 12. On the tenth anniversary of his death, Bo’s Place was born. Karen Pennebaker resigned from the Board to become the first volunteer Executive Director and the first support groups were launched.\n\nBy 1998, the center was staffed and had developed 62 volunteer facilitators plus volunteers to run the Information and Referral Line. The Junior League of Houston helped fund a library dedicated to grief resource material for children, families, professionals and students. Bo’s Place became a core training site for Baylor College of Medicine medical students through the Longitudinal Ambulatory Clinical Experience (LACE) program. In 1999, Bo’s Place won The American Group Psychotherapy Association’s Aaron Stein Memorial Award For Innovative and Creative Use of Groups. In 2002, Bo's Place added a Little Friends group, a program which included traumatized children and their families, satellite groups in Ft. Bend County and Memorial, and daytime adult groups for mothers, fathers and young widows.\n\nKaren Pennebaker retired from Bo's Place in February 2000 to resume her private practice.\n\nIn 2002, a $4.6 million capital campaign was kicked off to build a permanent residence, a family home style facility which opened in 2005. In November 2006, Bo’s Place held its first Camp Healing Hearts at Camp for All, an annual retreat for Bo’s Place families to participate in activities designed to support the ongoing grief journeys of each family. Bo’s Place launched a Spanish Outreach Initiative and offered its first offsite Houston metro area Spanish-language support groups in 2011. The goal of the initiative was to increase access to and enhance grief support services available to bereaved Hispanic/Latino families in the Houston area. In 2013, Bo’s Place launched an offsite group in Katy/West Houston.\n\nBo’s Place created a traveling photo exhibit entitled \"Life and Death...Let’s Talk About It\" in partnership with local photographer, Karen Sachar, in 2013. The exhibit was designed to raise awareness of the needs of the bereaved in the Houston community and how residents can play a role in providing support for these children, families and adults. The exhibit had its opening at the Houston Williams Tower during Children’s Grief Awareness Month and travels to venues throughout the Greater Houston area.\n\nBo’s Place is a member of the National Alliance for Grieving Children, and Bo’s Place staff regularly present at the Annual NAGC Symposium.\n\nIn 2008, Bo’s Place began to study participants’ progress on their grief journeys and their perception of the support they received from Bo’s Place. The results were described in a paper entitled \"A Traumatic Death Support Group Program: Applying an Integrated Conceptual Framework\" published in the Journal Death Studies in 2012.\n\nBo’s Place launched the National Archive of Grief Support Studies (NAGSS) in February 2009. The NAGSS database provides bibliographical information and summaries of recent articles relevant to grief and bereavement service providers. It was established to help grief support service providers facilitate discussion, understanding, and incorporation of research based ideas into their programming for the bereaved.\n\nIn 2014, Bo’s Place began partnering with The University of Texas Health Sciences Trauma and Grief Center for Youth to help locally validate two assessment tools for screening and referral purposes. As a result, in 2015 three additional special programs were added to its annual program offerings: Retiro Sanando Corazones, a weekend camp offered for Spanish-speaking families; Camp for All 2U, a summer program that brings a camp experience to the Bo’s Place home campus; and an additional Camp Healing Hearts to be offered the weekend before Thanksgiving for both English and Spanish-speaking families.\n\nThe Bo's Place annual Hearts of Hope luncheon has honored a number of distinguished Houston area leaders. Held each Spring, highlights include awarding \"The Robin Bush Award for Outstanding Contributions to the Lives of Children\", named in memory of the daughter of George H. W. and Barbara Bush. Past recipients of the Robin Bush Award include Virginia Holt McFarland; Susan Baker and Klinka Lollar; Missy and Allen McInnes; Nancy Gordon; Susan and Dr. Dick Stasney; Dr. John P. McGovern; Emily and Holcombe Crosswell; Lindy and Larry Neuhaus; Sue Trammell Whitfield; Elizabeth and Peter Wareing; Susan Light Lawhon and Carolyn Chappell Light; Muffin Clark; Patty and Craig Biggio; Mark A. Wallace; June Stobaugh; Bruce D. Perry; Dorothy Ables, Flo McGee, Ron Hall and Cheryl Strayed\n\nBo's place hosts regular events and charity shows in the Houston area and is regularly featured in local news\n\nThe American Group Psychotherapy Association Aaron Stein Memorial Award For Innovative and Creative Use of Group, presented to Bo's Place of Houston at The 56th AGPA Annual Conference, February 27, 1999\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30123212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30123212", "title": "Capital punishment in Guatemala", "text": "Capital punishment in Guatemala\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Guatemala, and is carried out by lethal injection and, to a lesser extent, the firing squad. It is only in military codes of justice, and was abolished for civilian offences in October 2017.\n\nAs of April 2017, five executions had been carried out since 1983; all were broadcast live on television. The last executions took place on June 29, 2000, when kidnappers and murderers Amilcar Cetino Perez and Tomas Cerrate Hernandez were executed by lethal injection on live television.\n\nFrom 2005-2012, the sentences of all 54 inmates condemned to death were commuted to life in prison. There are currently no inmates on death row in Guatemala.\n\nGuatemala voted in favor of the UN Moratorium on the Death Penalty in 2007, 2010, 2012, 2014, and 2016. The country abstained from voting in 2008.\n\nIn 2017, Guatemala abolished the death penalty for civil crimes. Currently, the death penalty can only be applied in times of war.\n\nThe current President of Guatemala, Jimmy Morales, supports the death penalty.<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "11535726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11535726", "title": "Choe Deok-geun", "text": "Choe Deok-geun\n\nChoe Deok-geun (also spelled Choi Duck-keun or Choi Duk-gun; born 1951 or 1952; died 1 October 1996 in Vladivostok, Primorsky Krai, Russia) was a South Korean consular official for the Russian Far East who was assassinated by poison in October 1996.\n\nThough the official cause of Choe's death was listed as bludgeoning, he had two pencil-sized holes on his torso which suggested injection of a foreign substance into his body. When his corpse was discovered, he still had $1,200 cash in his pocket. It emerged soon after that he had poison in his bloodstream of the same type as that carried by a North Korean submarine which had infiltrated South Korean waters and landed near Gangneung, Gangwon the previous month; North Korea had threatened to retaliate for the killings of their special forces agents by the South Korean army. North Korea denied all involvement and accused the South of fabricating evidence in order to frame the North. Some news reports at the time suggested that the North Koreans had hired a Russian Mafia hitman to actually carry out the murder.\n\nAs a result of his death, South Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade allegedly instructed their personnel to refrain from contacting with or providing assistance to North Koreans in Russia, even refugees, for fear that they too could be murdered. Some analysts believe that the North Korean government chose to delay announcing their 24 August arrest and detention of American citizen Evan Hunziker until around the time of Choe's murder in an attempt to divert attention.\n"}
{"id": "5422532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5422532", "title": "Chrisom", "text": "Chrisom\n\nAnciently, a chrisom, or \"chrisom-cloth,\" was the face-cloth, or piece of linen laid over a child's head when he or she was baptised or christened. Originally, the purpose of the chrisom-cloth was to keep the \"chrism\", a consecrated oil, from accidentally rubbing off. With time, the word's meaning changed, to that of a white mantle thrown over the whole infant at the time of baptism. The term has come to refer to a child who died within a month after its baptism—so called for the chrisom cloth that was used as a shroud for it. Additionally, in London's Bills of Mortality, the term chrisom was used to refer to infants who died within a month after being born. \n\n"}
{"id": "44628427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44628427", "title": "Cloud robotics", "text": "Cloud robotics\n\nCloud robotics is a field of robotics that attempts to invoke cloud technologies such as cloud computing, cloud storage, and other Internet technologies centred on the benefits of converged infrastructure and shared services for robotics. When connected to the cloud, robots can benefit from the powerful computation, storage, and communication resources of modern data center in the cloud, which can process and share information from various robots or agent (other machines, smart objects, humans, etc.). Humans can also delegate tasks to robots remotely through networks. Cloud computing technologies enable robot systems to be endowed with powerful capability whilst reducing costs through cloud technologies. Thus, it is possible to build lightweight, low cost, smarter robots have intelligent \"brain\" in the cloud. The \"brain\" consists of data center, knowledge base, task planners, deep learning, information processing, environment models, communication support, etc.\n\nA cloud for robots potentially has at least six significant components:\n\n\n\nRoboEarth was funded by the European Union's Seventh Framework Programme for research, technological development projects, specifically to explore the field of cloud robotics. The goal of RoboEarth is to allow robotic systems to benefit from the experience of other robots, paving the way for rapid advances in machine cognition and behaviour, and ultimately, for more subtle and sophisticated human-machine interaction. RoboEarth offers a Cloud Robotics infrastructure. RoboEarth’s World-Wide-Web style database stores knowledge generated by humans – and robots – in a machine-readable format. Data stored in the RoboEarth knowledge base include software components, maps for navigation (e.g., object locations, world models), task knowledge (e.g., action recipes, manipulation strategies), and object recognition models (e.g., images, object models). The RoboEarth Cloud Engine includes support for mobile robots, autonomous vehicles, and drones, which require lots of computation for navigation.\n\nRapyuta is an open source cloud robotics framework based on RoboEarth Engine developed by the robotics researcher at ETHZ. Within the framework, each robot connected to Rapyuta can have a secured computing environment (rectangular boxes) giving them the ability to move their heavy computation into the cloud. In addition, the computing environments are tightly interconnected with each other and have a high bandwidth connection to the RoboEarth knowledge repository.\n\nKnowRob is an extensional project of RoboEarth. It is a knowledge processing system that combines knowledge representation and reasoning methods with techniques for acquiring knowledge and for grounding the knowledge in a physical system and can serve as a common semantic framework for integrating information from different sources.\n\nRoboBrain is a large-scale computational system that learns from publicly available Internet resources, computer simulations, and real-life robot trials. It accumulates everything robotics into a comprehensive and interconnected knowledge base. Applications include prototyping for robotics research, household robots, and self-driving cars. The goal is as direct as the project's name—to create a centralised, always-online brain for robots to tap into. The project is dominated by Stanford University and Cornel University. And the project is supported by the National Science Foundation, the Office of Naval Research, the Army Research Office, Google, Microsoft, Qualcomm, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and the National Robotics Initiative, whose goal is to advance robotics to help make the United States more competitive in the world economy.\n\nMyRobots is a service for connecting robots and intelligent devices to the Internet. It can be regarded as a social network for robots and smart objects (i.e. Facebook for robots). With socialising, collaborating and sharing, robots can benefit from those interactions too by sharing their sensor information giving insight on their perspective of their current state.\n\nCOALAS is funded by the INTERREG IVA France (Channel) – England European cross-border co-operation programme. The project aims to develop new technologies for handicapped people through social and technological innovation and through the users' social and psychological integrity. Objectives is to produce a cognitive ambient assistive living system with Healthcare cluster in cloud with domestic service robots like humanoid, intelligent wheelchair which connect with the cloud.\n\nROS (Robot Operating System) provides an eco-system to support cloud robotics. ROS is a flexible and distributed framework for robot software development. It is a collection of tools, libraries, and conventions that aim to simplify the task of creating complex and robust robot behaviour across a wide variety of robotic platforms. A library for ROS that is a pure Java implementation, called rosjava, allows Android applications to be developed for robots. Since Android has a booming market and billion users, it would be significant in the field of Cloud Robotics.\n\nC2RO (C2RO Cloud Robotics) is a platform that processes real-time applications such as collision avoidance and object recognition in the cloud. Previously, high latency times prevented these applications from being processed in the cloud thus requiring on-system computational hardware (e.g. Graphics Processing Unit or GPU). C2RO published a peer-reviewed paper at IEEE PIMRC17 showing its platform could make autonomous navigation and other AI services available on robots- even those with limited computational hardware (e.g. a Raspberry Pi)- from the cloud. C2RO eventually claimed to be the first platform to demonstrate cloud-based SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping) at RoboBusiness in September 2017.\n\nNoos is a cloud robotics service, providing centralised intelligence to robots that are connected to it. The service went live in December 2017. By using the Noos-API, developers could access services for computer vision, deep learning, and SLAM. Noos was developed and maintained by Ortelio Ltd.\n\nThough robots can benefit from various advantages of cloud computing, cloud is not the solution to all of robotics.\n\n\nThe research and development of cloud robotics has following potential issues and challenges:\n\n\nEnvironmental security - The concentration of computing resources and users in a cloud computing environment also represents a concentration of security threats. Because of their size and significance, cloud environments are often targeted by virtual machines and bot malware, brute force attacks, and other attacks.\n\nData privacy and security - Hosting confidential data with cloud service providers involves the transfer of a considerable amount of an organisation's control over data security to the provider. For example, every cloud contains a huge information from the clients include personal data. If a household robot is hacked, users could have risk of their personal privacy and security, like house layout, life snapshot, home-view, etc. It may be accessed and leaked to the world around by criminals. Another problems is once a robot is hacked and controlled by someone else, which may put the user in danger.\n\nEthical problems - Some ethics of robotics, especially for cloud based robotics must be considered. Since a robot is connected via networks, it has risk to be accessed by other people. If a robot is out of control and carries out illegal activities, who should be responsible for it.\n\nThe term \"Cloud Robotics\" first appeared in the public lexicon as part of a talk given by James Kuffner in 2010 at the IEEE/RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robotics entitled \"Cloud-enabled Robots\".\n\nSince then, \"Cloud Robotics\" has become a general term encompassing the concepts of information sharing, distributed intelligence, and fleet learning that is possible via networked robots and modern cloud computing.\n\nFrom the early days of robot development, it was common to have computation done on a computer that was separated from the actual robot mechanism, but connected by wires for power and control. As wireless communication technology developed, new forms of experimental \"remote brain\" robots were developed controlled by small, onboard compute resources for robot control and safety, that were wirelessly connected to a more powerful remote computer for heavy processing.\nThe term \"cloud computing\" was popularized with the launch of Amazon EC2 in 2006. It marked the availability of high-capacity networks, low-cost computers and storage devices as well as the widespread adoption of hardware virtualization and service-oriented architecture.\nIn an correspondence with Popular Science in July 2006, Kuffner wrote that after a robot was programmed or successfully learned to perform a task it could share its model and relevant data with all other cloud-connected robots:\n\nSome publications and events related to Cloud Robotics (in chronological order):\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6760", "title": "Cryonics", "text": "Cryonics\n\nCryonics (from Greek κρύος \"kryos\" meaning 'cold') is the low-temperature preservation (usually at −196 °C) of a human corpse, with the hope that resuscitation and restoration to life and full health may be possible in the future. Cryopreservation of humans is not reversible with present technology; cryonicists hope that medical advances will someday allow cryopreserved bodies to be revived.\n\nCryonics is regarded with skepticism within the mainstream scientific community and is not part of normal medical practice. It is not known if it will ever be possible to revive a cryopreserved human cadaver. Cryonics depends on beliefs that the frozen body has not experienced information-theoretic death. Such views are at the speculative edge of science.\n\nCryonics procedures can only begin after clinical death, and cryonics \"patients\" are legally dead. Cryonics procedures ideally begin within minutes of death, and use cryoprotectants to prevent ice formation during cryopreservation. The first corpse to be cryopreserved was that of Dr. James Bedford in 1967. As of 2014, about 250 bodies were cryopreserved in the United States, and 1,500 people had made arrangements for cryopreservation after their legal death.\n\nCryonic proponents go further than the mainstream consensus in asserting that the brain does not have to be continuously active to survive or retain memory. Cryonics controversially asserts that a human survives even within an inactive brain that has been badly damaged, provided that original encoding of memory and personality can, in theory, be adequately inferred and reconstituted from structure that remains. Cryonicists argue that as long as brain structure remains intact, there is no fundamental barrier, given our current understanding of physical law, to recovering its information content. Cryonicists argue that true \"death\" should be defined as irreversible loss of brain information critical to personal identity, rather than inability to resuscitate using current technology. The cryonics argument that death does not occur as long as brain structure remains intact and theoretically repairable has received some mainstream medical discussion in the context of the ethical concept of brain death and organ donation.\n\nCryonics uses temperatures below −130 °C, called cryopreservation, in an attempt to preserve enough brain information to permit future revival of the cryopreserved person. Cryopreservation may be accomplished by freezing, freezing with cryoprotectant to reduce ice damage, or by vitrification to avoid ice damage. Even using the best methods, cryopreservation of whole bodies or brains is very damaging and irreversible with current technology.\n\nCryonics requires future technology to repair or regenerate tissue that is diseased, damaged, or missing. Brain repairs in particular will require analysis at the molecular level. This far-future technology is usually assumed to be nanomedicine based on molecular nanotechnology. Biological repair methods or mind uploading have also been proposed.\n\nCosts can include payment for medical personnel to be on call for death, vitrification, transportation in dry ice to a preservation facility, and payment into a trust fund intended to cover indefinite storage in liquid nitrogen and future revival costs. As of 2011, U.S. cryopreservation costs can range from $28,000 to $200,000, and are often financed via life insurance. KrioRus, which stores bodies communally in large dewars, charges $12,000 to $36,000 for the procedure. Some patients opt to have only their brain cryopreserved, rather than their whole body.\n\nAs of 2014, about 250 people have been cryogenically preserved in the U.S., and around 1,500 more have signed up to be preserved. As of 2016, four facilities exist in the world to retain cryopreserved bodies: three in the U.S. and one in Russia.\n\nLong-term preservation of biological tissue can be achieved by cooling to temperatures below −130 °C. Immersion in liquid nitrogen at a temperature of −196 °C (77 kelvins and −320.8 °F) is often used for convenience. Low temperature preservation of tissue is called cryopreservation. Contrary to popular belief, water that freezes during cryopreservation is usually water outside cells, not water inside cells. Cells don't burst during freezing, but instead become dehydrated and compressed between ice crystals that surround them. Intracellular ice formation only occurs if the rate of freezing is faster than the rate of osmotic loss of water to the extracellular space.\n\nWithout cryoprotectants, cell shrinkage and high salt concentrations during freezing usually prevent frozen cells from functioning again after thawing. In tissues and organs, ice crystals can also disrupt connections between cells that are necessary for organs to function. The difficulties of recovering large animals and their individual organs from a frozen state have been long known. Attempts to recover frozen mammals by simply rewarming them were abandoned by 1957. At present, only cells, tissues, and some small organs can be reversibly cryopreserved.\n\nWhen used at high concentrations, cryoprotectants can stop ice formation completely. Cooling and solidification without crystal formation is called vitrification. The first cryoprotectant solutions able to vitrify at very slow cooling rates while still being compatible with whole organ survival were developed in the late 1990s by cryobiologists Gregory Fahy and Brian Wowk for the purpose of banking transplantable organs. This has allowed animal brains to be vitrified, warmed back up, and examined for ice damage using light and electron microscopy. No ice crystal damage was found; remaining cellular damage was due to dehydration and toxicity of the cryoprotectant solutions. Large vitrified organs tend to develop fractures during cooling, a problem worsened by the large tissue masses and very low temperatures of cryonics.\n\nThe use of vitrification rather than freezing for cryonics was anticipated in 1986, when K. Eric Drexler proposed a technique called \"fixation and vitrification\", anticipating reversal by molecular nanotechnology. In 2016, Robert L. McIntyre and Gregory Fahy at the cryobiology research company 21st Century Medicine, Inc. won the Small Animal Brain Preservation Prize of the Brain Preservation Foundation by demonstrating to the satisfaction of neuroscientist judges that a particular implementation of fixation and vitrification called \"aldehyde-stabilized cryopreservation\" could preserve a rabbit brain in \"near perfect\" condition at −135 °C, with the cell membranes, synapses, and intracellular structures intact in electron micrographs. Brain Preservation Foundation President, Ken Hayworth, said, \"This result directly answers a main skeptical and scientific criticism against cryonics—that it does not provably preserve the delicate synaptic circuitry of the brain.” However the price paid for perfect preservation as seen by microscopy was tying up all protein molecules with chemical crosslinks, completely eliminating biological viability. Actual cryonics organizations use vitrification without a chemical fixation step, sacrificing some structural preservation quality for less damage at the molecular level. Some scientists, like Joao Pedro Magalhaes, have questioned whether using a deadly chemical for fixation eliminates the possibility of biological revival, making chemical fixation unsuitable for cryonics.\n\nWhile preservation of both structure and function has been possible for brain slices using vitrification, this goal remains elusive for whole brains. In absence of a revived brain, or brain simulation from somehow scanning a preserved brain, the adequacy of present vitrification technology (with or without fixation) for preserving the anatomical and molecular basis of long-term memory as required by cryonics is still unproven.\n\nOutside the cryonics community, many scientists have a blanket skepticism toward existing preservation methods. Cryobiologist Dayong Gao states that \"we simply don't know if (subjects have) been damaged to the point where they've 'died' during vitrification because the subjects are now inside liquid nitrogen canisters.\" Biochemist Ken Storey argues (based on experience with organ transplants), that \"even if you only wanted to preserve the brain, it has dozens of different areas, which would need to be cryopreserved using different protocols.\"\n\nThose who believe that revival may someday be possible generally look toward advanced bioengineering, molecular nanotechnology, or nanomedicine as key technologies. Revival would require repairing damage from lack of oxygen, cryoprotectant toxicity, thermal stress (fracturing), freezing in tissues that do not successfully vitrify, and reversing the cause of death. In many cases extensive tissue regeneration would be necessary.\n\nAccording to Cryonics Institute president Ben Best, cryonics revival may be similar to a last in, first out process. People cryopreserved in the future, with better technology, may require less advanced technology to be revived because they will have been cryopreserved with better technology that caused less damage to tissue. In this view, preservation methods would get progressively better until eventually they are demonstrably reversible, after which medicine would begin to reach back and revive people cryopreserved by more primitive methods.\n\nHistorically, a person had little control regarding how their body was treated after death as religion had jurisdiction over the disposal of the body. However, secular courts began to exercise jurisdiction over the body and use discretion in carrying out of the wishes of the deceased person. Most countries legally treat preserved individuals as deceased persons because of laws that forbid vitrifying someone who is medically alive. In France, cryonics is not considered a legal mode of body disposal; only burial, cremation, and formal donation to science are allowed. However, bodies may legally be shipped to other countries for cryonic freezing. As of 2015, the Canadian province of British Columbia prohibits the sale of arrangements for body preservation based on cryonics. In Russia, cryonics falls outside both the medical industry and the funeral services industry, making it easier in Russia than in the U.S. to get hospitals and morgues to release cryonics candidates.\n\nIn London in 2016, the English High Court ruled in favor of a mother's right to seek cryopreservation of her terminally ill 14-year-old daughter, as the girl wanted, contrary to the father's wishes. The decision was made on the basis that the case represented a conventional dispute over the disposal of the girl's body, although the judge urged ministers to seek \"proper regulation\" for the future of cryonic preservation following concerns raised by the hospital about the competence and professionalism of the team that conducted the preservation procedures. In Alcor Life Extension Foundation v. Richardson, the Iowa Court of Appeals ordered for the disinterment of Richardson, who was buried against his wishes for cryopreservation.\n\nWriting in \"Bioethics\", David Shaw examines the ethical status of cryonics. The arguments against it include changing the concept of death, the expense of preservation and revival, lack of scientific advancement to permit revival, temptation to use premature euthanasia, and failure due to catastrophe. Arguments in favor of cryonics include the potential benefit to society, the prospect of immortality, and the benefits associated with avoiding death. Shaw explores the expense and the potential payoff, and applies an adapted version of Pascal's Wager to the question.\n\nCryopreservation was applied to human cells beginning in 1954 with frozen sperm, which was thawed and used to inseminate three women. Eight years later, the freezing of humans was first scientifically proposed by Michigan professor Robert Ettinger. In April 1966, the first human body was frozen with some thought of future reanimation, though it had been embalmed for two months. The body was placed in liquid nitrogen, and stored at just above freezing. The middle-aged woman from Los Angeles, whose name is unknown, was soon thawed out and buried by relatives.\n\nThe first body to be truly cryopreserved was James Bedford's a few hours after his cancer-caused death in 1967. He is the only cryonics patient frozen before 1974 still preserved today. Cryonics gained a poor reputation in the U.S. in the late 1970s after the Cryonics Society of California ran out of money to maintain cryopreservation of existing patients. Robert Nelson, a former TV repairman with no scientific background (who had processed Bedford's freezing before turning the body over to relatives), was sued for allowing nine bodies to decompose.\n\nIn 2018, a Y-Combinator startup called Nectome was recognized for developing a method of preserving brains with chemicals rather than by freezing. The method is fatal, performed as euthanasia under general anethesia, but the hope is that future technology would allow the brain to be physically scanned into a computer simulation, neuron by neuron.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", cryonicists are predominantly nonreligious white males, outnumbering women by about three to one. According to \"The Guardian\", as of 2008, while most cryonicists used to be young, male and \"geeky\" recent demographics have shifted slightly towards whole families.\n\nIn 2015 Du Hong, a 61-year-old female writer of children's literature, became the first known Chinese national to be cryopreserved.\n\nSome scientists have expressed skepticism about cryonics in media sources, however the number of peer-reviewed papers on cryonics is limited because its speculative aspects place it outside of the focus of most academic fields. While most neuroscientists agree that all the subtleties of a human mind are contained in its anatomical structure, few neuroscientists will comment directly upon the topic of cryonics due to its speculative nature. Individuals who intend to be frozen are often \"looked at as a bunch of kooks\", despite many of them being scientists and doctors.\n\nAccording to cryonicist Aschwin de Wolf and others, cryonics can often produce intense hostility from spouses who are not cryonicists. James Hughes, the executive director of the pro-life-extension Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, chooses not to personally sign up for cryonics, calling it a worthy experiment but stating laconically that \"I value my relationship with my wife.\"\n\nCryobiologist Dayong Gao states that \"People can always have hope that things will change in the future, but there is no scientific foundation supporting cryonics at this time.\" Alcor disagrees, stating that \"There are no known credible technical arguments that lead one to conclude that cryonics, carried out under good conditions today, would not work.\" As well, while it is universally agreed that \"personal identity\" is uninterrupted when brain activity temporarily ceases during incidents of accidental drowning (where people have been restored to normal functioning after being completely submerged in cold water for up to 66 minutes), some people express concern that a centuries-long cryopreservation might interrupt their conception of personal identity, such that the revived person would \"not be you\".\n\nMany people assert there would be no point in being revived in the far future if their friends and families are dead.\n\nSuspended animation is a popular subject in science fiction and fantasy settings, appearing in comic books, films, literature, and television. A survey in Germany found that about half of the respondents were familiar with cryonics, and about half of those familiar with cryonics had learned of the subject from films or television. Some commonly known examples of cryonics being used in popular culture include \"Demolition Man (film)\", \"Vanilla Sky\", \"Fallout 4\", \"Futurama\", \"Passengers\" and \"Nip/Tuck\".\nAmong the cryopreserved are L. Stephen Coles (in 2014), Hal Finney (in 2014), and Ted Williams.\n\nThe urban legend suggesting Walt Disney was cryopreserved is false; he was cremated and interred at Forest Lawn Memorial Park Cemetery. Robert A. Heinlein, who wrote enthusiastically of the concept in \"The Door into Summer\" (serialized in 1956), was cremated and had his ashes distributed over the Pacific Ocean. Timothy Leary was a long-time cryonics advocate and signed up with a major cryonics provider, but he changed his mind shortly before his death, and was not cryopreserved.\n"}
{"id": "55792964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55792964", "title": "Danford Thomas", "text": "Danford Thomas\n\nGeorge Danford Phillips Thomas (1846 – 5 August 1910) was the coroner for Central Middlesex in London who estimated that he conducted around 40,000 inquests during his career. He was appointed to hear the enquiry into the human remains found in the basement of Dr. Crippen's home but he died before the enquiry could be completed.\n\nDanford Thomas was born in London in 1846, the son of the reverend Richard James Francis Thomas (died 1873), curate of Hammersmith and headmaster and chaplain of Bancroft's Hospital, Mile End Road, and from 1855 vicar of Yeovil. Danford received his general education at Bath and afterwards entered as a student at St Mary's Hospital, and became member of the Royal College of Surgeons in 1871. Some five years later he earned his MD at Brussels, taking honours in medical jurisprudence. He also studied at the Inner Temple, and was admitted to the bar.\n\nHe observed the Franco-Prussian War (1870–71) as an officer of the British National Society for Aid to the Sick and Wounded in War, a predecessor of the British Red Cross, and his name was mentioned in various reports on the war operations by French authorities, leading to the award of the French Order of Merit in acknowledgement of his services.\n\nHe married Sarah De Horne Vaizey in Dorchester in 1872. Their son, Richard, also became a coroner.\n\nThomas began general practice in Paddington, and was soon after appointed the first Medical Officer of Health for the district of Willesden. In the 1870s he became deputy coroner to Dr. Hardwicke, and later coroner for Central Middlesex. On Hardwicke's death in 1881, Thomas was elected to Hardwicke's post after a closely contested competition. His work as a coroner thus extended over a period of upwards of thirty years, and was spent in what, in respect of urban coronerships' districts, must be one of the largest in point of both area and population. It included as many as fifteen parliamentary divisions. He estimated that he had held around 40,000 inquiries during his career.\n\nThe \"British Medical Journal\" said that his \"success as a coroner was greatly aided by his medical training, his legal knowledge, his wide acquaintance with mankind, his clear, logically working brain, and a fund of sympathy for suffering of all kinds ... on two occasions he went so far as to take into his house professional acquaintances suffering from mental illness, and thus temporarily stranded in London, and treated them as his guests until their recovery.\"\n\nThomas was a volunteer soldier with the British Army and founded a bearer company in north London, the predecessors of the army's modern field ambulance units. He reached the rank of Brigade Surgeon-Lieutenant-Colonel of the North London Volunteer Rifle Brigade.\n\nHe was active in the Unionist Party in Paddington and the promotion of the Primrose League in that district. He was the unsuccessful candidate at Islington in the 1885 parliamentary election when he was opposed by an elder brother of Joseph Chamberlain.\n\nThomas died on 5 August 1910 while on a short visit to St Leonards. He went there on the adjournment of the Crippen trial, on which he was engaged, when he was already ill. Five years earlier he had experienced an attack of paralysis but had made a practically complete recovery. In their obituary of Thomas, the \"British Medical Journal\" attributed his death to an attempt by the London County Council to have Thomas removed from his position on the grounds of ill-health. The council had first attempted to persuade him to resign and then, finding they had no legal power to force the matter, had appealed unsuccessfully to the Lord Chancellor to ask Thomas to give up his position.\n\nThe \"British Medical Journal\" described the attempted removal as \"ill advised\", arguing that it was the cause of Thomas's final illness: \"Though he had won a complete victory, and had nothing to fear in the future, he seems to have been specially anxious to justify to the full the confidence reposed in him by the Lord Chancellor, and in consequence had practically declined since early this year [1910] to take any advantage of his right to employ a deputy when not feeling well. He had already held since the beginning of the year upwards of 600 inquests, and this great labour, coupled with the extra strain thrown upon him by the peculiar circumstances of the Crippen inquiry, was no doubt the immediate cause of the attack of diabetic coma from which he died.\"\n\nThomas was a strong advocate of cremation, and the reformed burial movement in general. He frequently dissuaded those who appeared before him in court from indulging in expensive funerals, and had given instructions that when the time came for his own interment his remains should be either cremated or otherwise disposed of in the simplest fashion available. It was in accordance with this wish that his funeral took place at Hastings instead of from his own house, and that the earth-to-earth or Haden system of interment was adopted.\n\nHe was survived by his wife and son. He left an estate of £3,308 and his executors were his son Richard and his deputy Walter Schröder.\n\nAmong the notable inquests held by Thomas were:\n"}
{"id": "5969894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5969894", "title": "David B. Barkley", "text": "David B. Barkley\n\nDavid Bennes Barkley, also known as David B. Barkeley Cantu (March 31, 1899 – November 9, 1918), was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for his heroic actions during World War I in France. After successfully completing a scouting mission behind enemy lines he drowned while swimming back across the Meuse River.\n\nBarkley was born in Laredo, Webb County, Texas to Joseph S. Barkley and the former Antonia Cantu. Joseph was a career Soldier, and the couple married in Starr County, TX while Joseph was stationed at Ft Ringgold, TX. Deployed to Puerto Rico shortly after David's birth, the family remained in Texas. David grew up with his Mexican-American mother and younger sister while his father remained in the Army. David first enlisted in the Texas National Guard, entering the U.S. Army in April 1917, shortly after the U.S. entered World War I. He enlisted under his legal name, though some claim he used his Anglo father's name only to avoid being segregated into a non-combat unit. Segregated units, however, only applied to African Americans in the Army at this time, so the validity of this claim is difficult to support. \n\nArriving in France with the 155th Infantry in August 1918, he was later assigned to Company A, 356th Infantry, 89th Division. Only days before the Armistice, he volunteered for a mission with Sergeant M. Waldo Hatler to swim across the Meuse River near Pouilly-sur-Meuse to get behind German lines and gather information about troop strength and deployments. They were able to gather the needed information; however, returning across the river, Barkley was \"seized with cramps and drowned\". (This is the exact wording from his citation, duplicated below.) Sergeant Hatler survived to bring the information back to their unit.\n\nBarkley was awarded the Medal of Honor for his actions, one of three Texans to be awarded the Medal of Honor during World War I. Additionally, France awarded him the \"Croix de Guerre\", and Italy the \"Croce al Merito di Guerra\".\n\nPrivate Barkley lay in state at the Alamo, the second person to ever receive this honor. He was then buried at the San Antonio National Cemetery.\n\nRank and organization: Private, U.S. Army, Company A, 356th Infantry, 89th Division. Place and date: Near Pouilly, France, November 9, 1918. Entered service at: San Antonio, Tex. Birth: Laredo, Tex. G.O. No.: 20, W.D., 1919.\nCitation\n\nBarkley has received notable posthumous recognition. In 1921, an elementary school in San Antonio, Texas, was named in his honor. On January 10, 1941, a U.S. Army installation, Camp Barkeley, was also named in his honor. A clerical error resulted in the discrepancy in spelling. His mother attended the dedication ceremony and met with surviving members of his unit, and her photo appeared in several Texas newspapers.\n\nA memorial honoring the forty-one Hispanic soldiers who have received the Congressional Medal of Honor was built in Laredo in 2002 and named for Barkley. The David B. Barkley Plaza has a bronze statue of David B. Barkley and an American flag measuring 100 ft by 50 ft and is 308 ft tall making it the tallest flagpole in the United States. The memorial is located at .\n\nThe restored chapel at Laredo Community College is also named in Barkley's honor. Memorial Day and Veterans Day services are held there each year.\n\nDavid Bennes Barkley's awards and decorations include the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28562025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28562025", "title": "Death of Gareth Williams", "text": "Death of Gareth Williams\n\nGareth Wyn Williams (26 September 1978 – ) was a Welsh mathematician and employee of GCHQ seconded to the Secret Intelligence Service (SIS or MI6) who was found dead in suspicious circumstances at a Security Service safe house flat in Pimlico, London, on 23 August 2010. The inquest found that his death was \"unnatural and likely to have been criminally mediated.\" A subsequent Metropolitan Police re-investigation concluded that Williams's death was \"probably an accident\". It is also suspected that he should be numbered amongst those who have been killed by Russian assassins on British soil. Two senior British police sources have said some of Williams's work was focused on Russia – and one confirmed reports that he had been helping the NSA trace international money-laundering routes that are used by organised crime groups including Moscow-based mafia cells.\nOriginally from Anglesey, Wales, Williams, who spoke Welsh as a first language, began studying mathematics part-time at Bangor University, while still at Ysgol Uwchradd Bodedern, and graduated with a first-class degree at age 17. After gaining a PhD at the University of Manchester, he dropped out from a subsequent post-graduate course at St Catharine's College, Cambridge, and took up employment with GCHQ in Cheltenham in 2001, renting a room for a decade in Prestbury, Gloucestershire. Reportedly an intensely private man and a keen cyclist, Williams was due to return to Cheltenham at the beginning of September 2010 after his annual leave.\n\nPolice visited Williams's home during the afternoon of Monday 23 August 2010, as a \"welfare check\" after colleagues noted he had been out of contact for several days. His decomposing naked remains were found in a red The North Face bag, padlocked from the outside, in the bath of the main bedroom's en-suite bathroom. The police had gained entry into his top floor flat in Alderney Street, Pimlico at around 16:40. His family believe that crucial DNA was interfered with and that fingerprints left at the scene were wiped off as part of a cover-up. No fingerprints, palm-prints, footprints or traces of Williams's DNA were found on the rim of the bath, the bag zip or the bag padlock. A key to the padlock was inside the bag, underneath his body.\n\nWilliams was buried at Ynys Wen cemetery in Valley, Anglesey, on 26 September 2010, following a private funeral service at Bethel Chapel in Holyhead attended by his family, friends, former colleagues in the intelligence services, and also by the head of SIS, Sir John Sawers.\n\nWilliams's date of death was estimated to have been in the early hours of 16 August, one week before he was found.\n\nVincent Williams from the Metropolitan Police informed the Westminster Coroner's Court that experts were agreed that it was impossible for Gareth Williams to have locked himself in. \n\nSoon after the investigation started, the heads of the Secret Intelligence Service and Metropolitan Police met to discuss how the police would handle the investigation in light of the top secret nature of Williams's work, and who would lead the investigation. Williams had recently qualified for operational deployment, and had worked with U.S. National Security Agency and FBI agents. The U.S. State Department asked that no details of Williams's work should emerge at the inquest. The Foreign Secretary, William Hague, signed a public-interest immunity certificate authorising the withholding from the inquest of details of Williams's work and U.S. joint operations.\n\nAfter launching an investigation, the coroner Dr Fiona Wilcox said that there were no injuries on his body and no signs that he had been involved in a struggle; his body was also free of alcohol and common recreational drugs. The Metropolitan Police considered his death \"suspicious and unexplained\". The FBI also conducted their own investigation into the case.\n\nIn December 2010, police released further details, stating that Williams had visited a number of bondage websites although at the later inquest it was stated these visits were \"sporadic and isolated\" and accounted for only a small proportion of the time he spent online. It was also noted at the inquest that he never visited any website devoted to claustrophilia – a sexual interest in being confined in small spaces.\n\nAn expert brought in to examine the bag in which Williams's body was found concluded that Williams could not have locked it. A police spokesperson stated that: \"If he was alive, he got into it voluntarily or, if not, he was unconscious and placed in the bag.\"\n\nThe heating in Williams's apartment was found to be turned on. It has been suggested an elevated temperature inside the apartment would have sped up the decomposition of Williams's body.\n\nSubsequently, the police released an E-FIT photo of two people they were seeking, who were seen to enter the communal entrance of his home in June or July 2010.\n\nThe lawyer for the family, Anthony O'Toole, at the Coroner's inquest in March 2012, said that a second person was either present when Williams died, or someone broke in afterwards and stole items. There is no forensic evidence to support this view. No sign of forced entry could be found, but it was also noted that the door and locks had been removed by the time police experts had become involved.\n\nDNA found on Williams's hand turned out to be contamination from one of the forensic scientists and the police determined that a Mediterranean couple they had been seeking had nothing to do with the inquiry. LGC, the forensic company, apologised that the error had inflicted such pain on the family, caused by the incorrect data entry of a numerical code.\n\nEvidence at the inquest showed that it would have been virtually impossible for Williams to have locked himself in the bag. Two experts were unable to lock themselves in a similar bag despite making 400 attempts to do so, although one stated there was a small chance Williams had managed the feat. Pathologist Dr Richard Shepherd stated it was more likely that Williams was alive when he got into the bag, due to the difficulty of arranging a corpse in the position William's body was found in. Another pathologist stated that Williams would have been overcome by hypercapnia, elevated carbon dioxide levels, after only two or three minutes in the bag.\n\nWilliams's family said they believed that a secret service agency was involved in his death.\n\nDr Fiona Wilcox, the Coroner, said that she would \"follow the evidence\" wherever it led.\n\nEvidence given by Williams's former landlady in Cheltenham showed how one night he had awoken her and her husband, screaming for help. Apparently he had managed to tie himself to his bed, and required assistance in releasing himself. The testimony was that Williams had claimed at the time that he had done it just to see if he could free himself and that he promised not to try this again. Nothing further had been said about the incident since between Williams and his landlady.\n\nEvidence was given of £20,000 worth of women's clothing being found in the flat.\nThe journalist Duncan Campbell reported that the inquest evidence indicated Williams was one of a team of intelligence officers sent to penetrate US and UK hacking networks. He had attended the 2010 Black Hat Briefings and DEF CON conferences. He had started with SIS in London in spring 2009, and after taking a number of training courses started on \"active operational work\". A few months before his death, he asked to return to GCHQ as he disliked the \"rat race, flash car competitions and post-work drinking culture\" at SIS and as a keen cyclist and walker wanted to go back to the countryside, and was due to return in September.\n\nThe coroner found in a narrative verdict that Williams's death was \"unnatural and likely to have been criminally mediated\". The coroner was \"satisfied that on the balance of probabilities that Gareth was killed unlawfully\". There was insufficient evidence to give a verdict of unlawful killing. The coroner concluded that another party placed the bag containing Williams into the bath, and on the balance of probabilities locked the bag. No fingerprints were found around the bath. The coroner was critical of SIS for failing to report Williams missing for seven days, which caused extra anguish and suffering for his family, and led to the loss of forensic evidence.\n\nThe coroner rejected suicide, interest in bondage or cross-dressing, or \"auto-erotic activity\" being involved in Williams's death. She said his visits to bondage websites only occurred intermittently and were not of a frequency to indicate an active interest. The coroner condemned leaks about cross-dressing as a possible attempt at media manipulation.\n\nThe coroner was highly critical of the Metropolitan Police's Counter Terrorism Command (SO15), who failed to tell the senior investigating officer before the inquest began of the existence of nine memory sticks and other property in Williams's SIS office. SO15 failed to take formal statements when interviewing SIS officers. The coroner said the possible involvement of SIS staff in the death was a legitimate line of inquiry for the police.\n\nThe finding by Westminster coroner Dr Fiona Wilcox prompted a reinvestigation by the Metropolitan Police lasting a further 12 months which officers said had been allowed unprecedented access to serving MI6 staff following strong criticism at the inquest of the spying agency's actions following the death of Mr Williams.\n\nMetropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner Martin Hewitt announced that despite a re-examination of all evidence and the investigation of new leads no definitive answers had been obtained as to the cause of Williams's death and the \"most probable scenario\" was that he had died alone in his flat in Pimlico, central London, as the result of accidentally locking himself inside the bag.\n\nIn September and October 2015, Boris Karpichkov, a former KGB agent who defected from Russia and who now lives in Britain, stated during interviews that \"sources in Russia\" have claimed that the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service, also known as the SVR, was responsible for Williams's murder. According to Karpichkov, the SVR tried and failed to blackmail Williams into becoming a double agent.\n\nIn response to the SVR's attempts, Williams apparently claimed that he knew \"the identity of a Russian spy inside the GCHQ.\" Karpichkov claimed that Williams's threat meant that \"the SVR then had no alternative but to exterminate him in order to protect their agent inside GCHQ.\" Regarding the cause of death, Karpichkov claimed that the SVR killed Williams \"by an untraceable poison introduced in his ear.\"\n"}
{"id": "8966034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8966034", "title": "Der Löwe", "text": "Der Löwe\n\nDer Löwe (1944–1973) was a successful stallion who had a great impact on the breeding of Warmbloods and is thought by some to be one of the most important post-war stallions to stand at stud.\n\n\nDer Löwe includes in his pedigree Dark Ronald, son of Bay Ronald, both of whom are well known for their profound influence on the breeding of warmbloods. Dark Ronald was successful on the track and in the breeding shed in Britain, before being shipped to the German state stud of Graditz. In Germany, Dark Ronald went on to become one of the most prolific stallions ever imported, producing sons such as Prunus, Herold, and Wallenstein.\n\nDer Löwe's sire, Wahnfried, was the winner of the German St. Leger. Wahnfried's pedigree includes 1903 English Triple Crown winner Rock Sand, who was also grand-sire to Man o' War. Great-grandsire Tracery won the St. Leger and sired many excellent racehorses in Britain.\n\nPedigree for Der Löwe<br>\n1944 Dark Bay \n\nDer Löwe was used as a racehorse for the first years of his life, and was a successful stakes winner, most notably winning the Grosser Preis von Baden in 1948. He was then sent to the Hanoverian stud at Grossenworden at the age of 7, to begin his breeding career. Der Löwe stood at Grossenworden from 1951 to 1961, before standing at Luhmühlen from 1962 to 1968, Otterstedt from 1969 to 1971, Sottrum in 1972, and Bargstedt in 1973. His breeding career spanned 20 years, during which time he produced 6 state stallions, 158 registered mares, as well as 314 competition horses who earned winning of DM750,000.\n\nIn his career, Der Löwe produced many international-caliber sport horses, known for their expressive movement (although they were usually quite sensitive to sound). Show jumpers included Der Lord and Loriot, both ridden by Hartwig Steenken. In eventing, Löwenstern was very successful with Nils Haagensen. He also sired dressage horses such as Karin Schlüter's Liostro, Erika Scharzkopf's Löwenherz, Carola Lampe's Lanthan, Holger& Inge Schmezers' Lady Lou, Hans-Jürgen Armbrust's Leopardin, Marjolyn Greeve's Lucky Boy, John Winnett's and Leopardi.\n\nPerhaps most known were Lugano I and Lugano II, full-brothers sired by Der Lowe. Lugano I sired good dressage horses, as well as superb show jumpers. Lugano II produced the stallion Lombard, making him grand-sire to Lanthan and Leubus.\n\nAlthough 10 of his grandsons or great-grandsons stood at the Celle Stud in the 1980s, his influence has been slowly decreasing. He has had a more lasting impact on the breeding of Belgian jumpers, through his grandson Lugano van la Roche. Additionally, he is one of only a handful of Hanoverian stallions licensed by the Holstein Verband for breeding.\n\nDer Löwe died at the age of 29. His skeleton is displayed at the Verden horse museum.\n"}
{"id": "38045209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38045209", "title": "Despeciation", "text": "Despeciation\n\nDespeciation is the loss of a unique species of animal due to its combining with another previously distinct species. It is the opposite of Speciation and is much more rare. It is similar to extinction in that there is a loss of a unique species but without the associated loss of a biological lineage.\n\nFor example, Taylor et al.'s genetic analysis of three-spined sticklebacks across six lakes in southwestern British Columbia found two distinct species in 1977 and 1988 but only one combined species in data from 1997, 2000, and 2002. They concluded that external factors had imperiled the living conditions of the two species, thus eliminating the evolutionary specializations that had kept them unique.\n"}
{"id": "30196040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30196040", "title": "Do You Believe (Julie-Anne Dineen song)", "text": "Do You Believe (Julie-Anne Dineen song)\n\n\"Do You Believe\" is a charity single by Julie-Anne Dineen that was released in March 2009 reaching number 1 on the Irish Singles Chart staying top for 1 week. The song was written by Philip Scanlon. The proceeds of the single went to the Symptomatic Breast Cancer unit at the Mid-Western Regional Hospital in Ireland, where Dineen had just finished treatment for breast cancer. She has just completed a tour of Limerick schools where she performed her chart topping song and spreading a cancer aware message. She followed her chart success with a Top 3 hit in Ireland, a cover of \"River Deep – Mountain High\" released in October 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1514277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1514277", "title": "Effective fitness", "text": "Effective fitness\n\nIn natural evolution and artificial evolution (e.g. artificial life and evolutionary computation) the fitness (or performance or objective measure) of a schema is rescaled to give its effective fitness which takes into account crossover and mutation. That is effective fitness can be thought of as the fitness that the schema would need to have in order to increase or decrease as a fraction of the population as it actually does with crossover and mutation present but as if they were not.\n\n"}
{"id": "37568089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37568089", "title": "Eleuteroschisis", "text": "Eleuteroschisis\n\nEleuteroschisis is asexual reproduction in dinoflagellates in which the parent organism completely sheds its theca (i.e. undergoes ecdysis) either before or immediately following cell division. Neither daughter cell inherits part of the parent theca. \nIn terms of asexual division of motile cells, desmoschisis is generally the case in gonyaulacaleans whereas eleutheroschisis is generally the case in peridinialeans. \n"}
{"id": "43597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43597", "title": "Exciton", "text": "Exciton\n\nAn exciton is a bound state of an electron and an electron hole which are attracted to each other by the electrostatic Coulomb force. It is an electrically neutral quasiparticle that exists in insulators, semiconductors and in some liquids. The exciton is regarded as an elementary excitation of condensed matter that can transport energy without transporting net electric charge.\n\nAn exciton can form when a photon is absorbed by a semiconductor. This excites an electron from the valence band into the conduction band. In turn, this leaves behind a positively charged electron hole (an abstraction for the location from which an electron was moved). The electron in the conduction band is then effectively attracted to this localized hole by the repulsive Coulomb forces from large numbers of electrons surrounding the hole and excited electron. This attraction provides a stabilizing energy balance. Consequently, the exciton has slightly less energy than the unbound electron and hole. The wavefunction of the bound state is said to be \"hydrogenic\", an exotic atom state akin to that of a hydrogen atom. However, the binding energy is much smaller and the particle's size much larger than a hydrogen atom. This is because of both the screening of the Coulomb force by other electrons in the semiconductor (i.e., its dielectric constant), and the small effective masses of the excited electron and hole. The recombination of the electron and hole, i.e. the decay of the exciton, is limited by resonance stabilization due to the overlap of the electron and hole wave functions, resulting in an extended lifetime for the exciton.\n\nThe electron and hole may have either parallel or anti-parallel spins. The spins are coupled by the exchange interaction, giving rise to exciton fine structure. In periodic lattices, the properties of an exciton show momentum (k-vector) dependence.\n\nThe concept of excitons was first proposed by Yakov Frenkel in 1931, when he described the excitation of atoms in a lattice of insulators. He proposed that this excited state would be able to travel in a particle-like fashion through the lattice without the net transfer of charge.\n\nExcitons may be treated in two limiting cases, depending on the properties of the material in question.\n\nIn materials with a relatively small dielectric constant, the Coulomb interaction between an electron and a hole may be strong and the excitons thus tend to be small, of the same order as the size of the unit cell. Molecular excitons may even be entirely located on the same molecule, as in fullerenes. This \"Frenkel exciton\", named after Yakov Frenkel, has a typical binding energy on the order of 0.1 to 1 eV. Frenkel excitons are typically found in alkali halide crystals and in organic molecular crystals composed of aromatic molecules, such as anthracene and tetracene.\n\nIn semiconductors, the dielectric constant is generally large. Consequently, electric field screening tends to reduce the Coulomb interaction between electrons and holes. The result is a \"Wannier exciton\", which has a radius larger than the lattice spacing. Small effective mass of electrons that is typical of semiconductors also favors large exciton radii. As a result, the effect of the lattice potential can be incorporated into the effective masses of the electron and hole. Likewise, because of the lower masses and the screened Coulomb interaction, the binding energy is usually much less than that of a hydrogen atom, typically on the order of . This type of exciton was named for Gregory Wannier and Nevill Francis Mott. Wannier-Mott excitons are typically found in semiconductor crystals with small energy gaps and high dielectric constants, but have also been identified in liquids, such as liquid xenon. They are also known as \"large excitons\".\n\nIn single-wall carbon nanotubes, excitons have both Wannier-Mott and Frenkel character. This is due to the nature of the Coulomb interaction between electrons and holes in one-dimension. The dielectric function of the nanotube itself is large enough to allow for the spatial extent of the wave function to extend over a few to several nanometers along the tube axis, while poor screening in the vacuum or dielectric environment outside of the nanotube allows for large (0.4 to ) binding energies.\n\nOften there is more than one band to choose from for the electron and the hole leading to different types of excitons in the same material. Even high-lying bands can be effective as femtosecond two-photon experiments have shown. At cryogenic temperatures, many higher excitonic levels can be observed approaching the edge of the band, forming a series of spectral absorption lines that are in principle similar to hydrogen spectral series.\n\nAn intermediate case between Frenkel and Wannier excitons, \"charge-transfer excitons\" (sometimes called simply \"CT excitons\") occur when the electron and the hole occupy adjacent molecules. They occur primarily in ionic crystals. Unlike Frenkel and Wannier excitons they display a static electric dipole moment.\n\nAt surfaces it is possible for so called \"image states\" to occur, where the hole is inside the solid and the electron is in the vacuum. These electron-hole pairs can only move along the surface.\n\nAlternatively, an exciton may be an excited state of an atom, ion, or molecule, the excitation wandering from one cell of the lattice to another.\n\nWhen a molecule absorbs a quantum of energy that corresponds to a transition from one molecular orbital to another molecular orbital, the resulting electronic excited state is also properly described as an exciton. An electron is said to be found in the lowest unoccupied orbital and an electron hole in the highest occupied molecular orbital, and since they are found within the same molecular orbital manifold, the electron-hole state is said to be bound. Molecular excitons typically have characteristic lifetimes on the order of nanoseconds, after which the ground electronic state is restored and the molecule undergoes photon or phonon emission. Molecular excitons have several interesting properties, one of which is energy transfer (see Förster resonance energy transfer) whereby if a molecular exciton has proper energetic matching to a second molecule's spectral absorbance, then an exciton may transfer (\"hop\") from one molecule to another. The process is strongly dependent on intermolecular distance between the species in solution, and so the process has found application in sensing and \"molecular rulers\".\n\nThe hallmark of molecular excitons in organic molecular crystals are doublets and/or triplets of exciton absorption bands strongly polarized along crystallographic axes. In these crystals an elementary cell includes several molecules sitting in symmetrically identical positions, which results in the level degeneracy that is lifted by intermolecular interaction. As a result, absorption bands are polarized along the symmetry axes of the crystal. Such multiplets were discovered by Antonina Prikhot'ko and their genesis was proposed by Alexander Davydov. It is known as 'Davydov splitting'.\n\nExcitons are lowest excited states of the electronic subsystem of pure crystals. Impurities can bind excitons, and when the bound state is shallow, the oscillator strength for producing bound excitons is so high that impurity absorption can compete with intrinsic exciton absorption even at rather low impurity concentrations. This phenomenon is generic and applicable both to the large radius (Wannier-Mott) excitons and molecular (Frenkel) excitons. Hence, excitons bound to impurities and defects possess giant oscillator strength.\n\nIn crystals excitons interact with phonons, the lattice vibrations. If this coupling is weak as in typical semiconductors such as GaAs or Si, excitons are scattered by phonons. However, when the coupling is strong, excitons can be self-trapped. Self-trapping results in dressing excitons with a dense cloud of virtual phonons which strongly suppresses the ability of excitons to move across the crystal. In simpler terms, this means a local deformation of the crystal lattice around the exciton. Self-trapping can be achieved only if the energy of this deformation can compete with the width of the exciton band. Hence, it should be of atomic scale, of about an electron volt.\n\nSelf-trapping of excitons is similar to forming strong-coupling polarons but with three essential differences. First, self-trapped exciton states are always of a small radius, of the order of lattice constant, due to their electric neutrality. Second, there exists a self-trapping barrier separating free and self-trapped states, hence, free excitons are metastable. Third, this barrier enables coexistence of free and self-trapped states of excitons. This means that spectral lines of free excitons and wide bands of self-trapped excitons can be seen simultaneously in absorption and luminescence spectra. While the self-trapped states are of lattice-spacing scale, the barrier has typically much larger scale. Indeed, its spatial scale is about formula_1 where formula_2 is effective mass of the exciton, formula_3 is the exciton-phonon coupling constant, and formula_4 is the characteristic frequency of optical phonons. Excitons are self-trapped when formula_2 and formula_3 are large, and then the spatial size of the barrier is large compared with the lattice spacing. Transforming a free exciton state into a self-trapped one proceeds as a collective tunneling of coupled exciton-lattice system (an instanton). Because formula_7 is large, tunneling can be described by a continuum theory. The height of the barrier formula_8. Because both formula_2 and formula_3 appear in the denominator of formula_11, the barriers are basically low. Therefore, free excitons can be seen in crystals with strong exciton-phonon coupling only in pure samples and at low temperatures. Coexistence of free and self-trapped excitons was observed in rare-gas solids, alkali-halides, and in molecular crystal of pyrene.\n\nExcitons are the main mechanism for light emission in semiconductors at low temperature (when the characteristic thermal energy \"kT\" is less than the exciton binding energy), replacing the free electron-hole recombination at higher temperatures.\n\nThe existence of exciton states may be inferred from the absorption of light associated with their excitation. Typically, excitons are observed just below the band gap.\n\nWhen excitons interact with photons a so-called polariton (also exciton-polaritons) is formed. These excitons are sometimes referred to as \"dressed excitons\".\n\nProvided the interaction is attractive, an exciton can bind with other excitons to form a biexciton, analogous to a dihydrogen molecule. If a large density of excitons is created in a material, they can interact with one another to form an electron-hole liquid, a state observed in k-space indirect semiconductors.\n\nAdditionally, excitons are integer-spin particles obeying Bose statistics in the low-density limit. In some systems, where the interactions are repulsive, a Bose–Einstein condensed state, called excitonium, is predicted to be the ground state. Some evidence of excitonium has existed since the 1970s, but has often been difficult to discern from a Peierls phase. Exciton condensates have allegedly been seen in a double quantum well systems. In 2017 Kogar et al. found \"compelling evidence\" for observed excitons condensing in the three-dimensional semimetal 1T-TiSe2\n\nNormally, excitons in a semiconductor have a very short lifetime due to the close proximity of the electron and hole. However, by placing the electron and hole in spatially separated quantum wells with an insulating barrier layer in between so called 'spatially indirect' excitons can be created. In contrast to ordinary (spatially direct), these spatially indirect excitons can have large spatial separation between the electron and hole, and thus possess a much longer lifetime. This is often used to cool excitons to very low temperatures in order to study Bose–Einstein condensation (or rather its two-dimensional analog).\n\n"}
{"id": "55266183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55266183", "title": "Funeral coin", "text": "Funeral coin\n\nThe term funeral coin is used for coins issued on the occasion of the death of a prominent person, mostly a ruling prince or a coin-lord. The obverse of such a coin usually depicts the portrait of the deceased; the reverse may show the coat of arms and important biographic data.\n\nThe first issues regarded as funeral coins were struck in Germany in the late 12th century upon the death of Albert the Bear († 1170) and Archbishop Wichmann († 1192) of Magdeburg. Around the middle of the 16th century, funeral coins were issued in some states of the Holy Roman Empire. Their minting was frequent until the end of the eighteenth century, especially in the Electorate of Saxony and the Electorate of Brunswick-Lüneburg; in Prussia, on the other hand, there were only a few funeral coins, so in 1713 on the occasion of the death of King Frederick I and 1786 after the death of Frederick the Great.\n\nUsually, funeral coins are commemorative coins of precious metals with high nominal values, but there are also funeral coins as currency money. Frequently the coins are designated according to their type with (German) terms like \"Sterbet(h)aler\", \"Sterbegulden\", \"Sterbedukaten\" or \"Sterbegroschen\".\n"}
{"id": "52624969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52624969", "title": "Japanese submarine I-175", "text": "Japanese submarine I-175\n\nThe Japanese submarine \"I-175 (I-75\", until 20 May 1942) was a \"Kaidai\" type of cruiser submarine of the KD6B sub-class, built for the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) during the mid-1930s.\n\nThe submarines of the KD6B sub-class were essentially repeats of the preceding KD6A sub-class. They displaced surfaced and submerged. The submarines were long, had a beam of and a draft of . The boats had a diving depth of \n\nFor surface running, the boats were powered by two diesel engines, each driving one propeller shaft. When submerged each propeller was driven by a electric motor. They could reach on the surface and underwater. On the surface, the KD3Bs had a range of at ; submerged, they had a range of at .\n\nThe boats were armed with six internal torpedo tubes, four in the bow and two in the stern. They carried a total of 14 torpedoes. They were also armed with one deck gun for combat on the surface and two anti-aircraft machineguns.\n\n\"I-175\" participated in the Attack on Pearl Harbor and sank the 3,252-ton American merchant \"Manini\" on 17 December 1941, 180 miles south of Hawaii. In July 1942 she operated off the eastern coast of Australia and sank the French merchant vessel \"Cagou\", the Australian trawler \"Dureenbee\" and damaged the Australian merchant vessels \"Allara\" and \"Murada\". \"I-175\" was depth charged by HMAS \"Cairns\" on 26 July 1942 and evaded destruction.\n\nOn 12 August, the submarine was damaged by aircraft from USS \"Enterprise\" and needed repairs at Rabaul. \"I-175\" was damaged in a collision with the oiler \"Nisshin Maru\" on 20 November 1942 at Truk and run aground to prevent from sinking. The submarine required repairs at Yokosuka.\n\n\"I-175\" is best known for sinking Escort carrier USS \"Liscome Bay\" on 24 November 1943, killing 54 officers and 648 enlisted men.\n\n\"I-175\" was herself sunk 2 months later on 4 February 1944, during the Battle of Kwajalein, when she was attacked by destroyers USS \"Charrette\" and \"Fair\". \"Fair\" fired several grenades from her Hedgehog anti-submarine mortar at the Japanese submarine and sank her with the entire crew at position ().\n\n"}
{"id": "8008162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8008162", "title": "John C. England", "text": "John C. England\n\nEnsign John Charles England (December 11, 1920 – December 7, 1941) was an officer in the United States Navy.\n\nJohn Charles England was born in Harris, Missouri, on December 11, 1920. His family then moved to Alhambra, California. He attended Alhambra High School, as did his sister Lennie England (Bemiss). He was president of his graduating class in 1938, acted in the senior play, was a member of the Light and Shadow drama club and Senior Hi-Y. He was voted Yell King of his senior class according to his sister Lennie. He later attended Pasadena City College, Pasadena, California graduating in 1940. He was a Yell King on the Pep Commission, a member of the Players Guild, where he was in the cast of their annual fall presentation of, \"Bachelor Born.\" He was also a member of Delta Psi Omega, a national honorary dramatics fraternity performing in their annual spring production, \"Outward Bound.\" J.C. graduated in spring, 1940.\n\nHe enlisted in the United States Naval Reserve as an Apprentice Seaman at Los Angeles on September 6, 1940. After active duty training on board from November 25, to December 21, 1940 he attended Naval Reserve Midshipman's School, New York, N.Y. and was appointed Midshipman, USNR, March 6, 1941. He completed his training on June 5 and was commissioned Ensign, USNR, June 6, 1941.\n\nHe was next assigned duty under instruction at the Naval Radio School, Norton Heights, Connecticut, reporting June 20, 1941. Upon detachment from school, he reported on September 3, 1941 to at Pearl Harbor.\n\nDuring this period he had also married and in early December he was eagerly awaiting the arrival of his wife and three-week-old daughter (Victoria Louise England) who were due to arrive in a few days. He had never seen his daughter.\n\nOn the morning of December 7, 1941, just four days from his 21st birthday John C. England volunteered to work in the ship's radio room for a friend so that he might have more time with his family when they arrived. That morning the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor and USS \"Oklahoma\" was one of their first targets. \"Oklahoma\" was moored at Battleship Row 7, outboard alongside . USS \"Oklahoma\" took 3 torpedo hits almost immediately after the first Japanese bombs fell. As she began to capsize, 2 more torpedoes struck home, and her men were strafed as they abandoned ship. Within 20 minutes after the attack began, she had swung over until halted by her masts touching bottom, her starboard side above water, and a part of her keel clear.\n\nEngland survived the attack and was able to venture into the ship three consecutive times, each time leading a shipmate to safety, but died during a fourth attempt. \n\nHis unidentified remains were buried at the National Cemetery in Hawaii. 75 years later his remains were identified and he was reburied in Colorado Springs next to his parents.\n\nTwo ships have been named for him. In 1943, was named to honor John Charles England. His mother Thelma cracked the ceremonial bottle of champagne on \"England\" 's bow in San Francisco Harbor on September 26, 1943. Lennie England served as maid of honor and kept the ribbon wrapped bottle until her death in 1995. The second ship to bear the name, was launched in 1962.\n\nAlhambra High School continues to award the John C. England award to their most outstanding senior each year. \n\nBEQ 836 at NSTC Great Lakes is also named in honor of England.\n"}
{"id": "23429510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23429510", "title": "List of expressions related to death", "text": "List of expressions related to death\n\nThis is a list of words and phrases related to death in alphabetical order. While some of them are slang, others euphemize the unpleasantness of the subject, or are used in formal contexts. Some of the phrases may carry the meaning of 'kill', or simply contain words related to death. Most of them are idioms.\n\n"}
{"id": "41709780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41709780", "title": "Margot Abad", "text": "Margot Abad\n\nMargot Abad was an Argentine film actress during the . She performed with Luis Sandrini, Santiago Gómez Cou, Olinda Bozán, Vicente Rubino, Lolita Torres, and Héctor Quintanilla.\n\n"}
{"id": "280996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280996", "title": "Martin of Aragon", "text": "Martin of Aragon\n\nMartin the Humane (29 July 1356 – 31 May 1410), also called the Elder and the Ecclesiastic, was King of Aragon, Valencia, Sardinia and Corsica and Count of Barcelona from 1396 and King of Sicily from 1409 (as Martin II). He failed to secure the accession of his illegitimate grandson, Frederic, Count of Luna, and with him the rule of the House of Barcelona came to an end.\n\nMartin was born in 1356, in either Girona or Perpignan. He was the second son of King Peter IV of Aragon and Eleanor of Sicily (Leonora), princess of the Sicilian branch of the House of Aragon.\n\nAs a cadet prince of the Aragonese royal family, Martin was given the Duchy of Montblanch (modern Montblanc). In Barcelona on 13 June 1373, Martin married María López de Luna (d. Villarreal, 20 December 1406), the daughter and heiress of Lope, Lord and 1st Count of Luna and Lord of Segorbe and his wife Brianda de Got, who was born in Provence and was related to Pope Clement V.\n\nIn 1380 his father appointed him lord and regent of the island of Sicily, then known also as Trinacria, since its queen Maria of Sicily, who was also Martin's cousin, was underage (Maria's father, Frederick III the Simple, died in 1377). As a son of Eleanor of Sicily, Martin was himself an heir to the island, should Maria's family die out.\n\nIn 1396, Martin succeeded his elder brother John I, who had died sonless, on the throne of Aragon. However, Sicilian nobles were causing unrest and so Martin was kept in Sicily. Meanwhile, Martin's wife, María López de Luna, claimed the throne on his behalf of and acted as his representative until he arrived in 1397. Still, the delay opened the way for more problems and quarrels to surface in Aragon. His right to the throne was contested, first by Count Matthew of Foix on behalf of his wife Joanna, elder daughter of John I. However, Martin succeeded in quashing an invasion by troops of the count. After the death of the childless Joanna, John I's younger daughter Yolande of Aragon, who had married the Angevin King Louis II of Naples, continued the claim, as did her sons.\n\nMartin launched crusades against the Moors in North Africa in 1398 and 1399.\n\nAragon had been trying to subjugate Sardinia since the reign of James II, and gradually the Aragonese had conquered most of the island. However, in the 1380s, during the reign of Martin's father Peter IV, the remaining independent principality of Arborea became a fortress of rebellion and the Aragonese were rapidly driven back by Eleanor of Arborea, so that practically the whole of Sardinia was lost. King Martin sent his son Martin the Younger, by then king of Sicily through his marriage to Queen Maria, to reconquer Sardinia. The son won the Battle of Sanluri (San Luis, San Luigi) in 1409, drove away the Genoese allies of the Sardinians, and subjugated a vast number of Sardinian nobles. This soon caused Arborea's total loss of independence. Soon after the battle, however, Martin the Younger died suddenly, due to malaria. Martin of Aragon then succeeded his son as King of Sicily, taking the title of Martin II.\n\nOverall, the Kingdom of Aragon enjoyed external peace during Martin's reign and he worked to quell internal strife caused by nobles, factions and bandits. He supported the Avignon line of Popes and Pope Benedict XIII, who was Aragonese, held the seat throughout Martin's reign. Martin's military intervention rescued the imprisoned Benedict in 1403 from the clutches of his rivals and the Pope settled in Valencia's countryside.\n\nMartin had four legitimate children by Queen Maria: Martin the Younger (b. 1374/1376), James (b. 1378), John (b. 1380), and Margaret (b. 1384/1388). The three younger children all died early, and so after Martin the Younger's death, King Martin appointed his cousin James II, Count of Urgell, the closest legitimate agnate of the House of Barcelona, as Governor-General of all the kingdoms of Aragon, a position that belonged traditionally to the heir presumptive. Martin still married secondly on 17 September 1409 to his cousin Margaret of Prades, daughter of Peter of Aragon, Baron of Entenza, but the short marriage was childless.\n\nMartin died, in the monastery of Valldonzella, outside the city walls of Barcelona on the 31st of May, 1410. While the reason remains unclear, it is supposed that either plague (present in the area at the time), uremic coma (the king suffered from severe obesity that affected his health) or the possibility of having been poisoned, only supported by Renaissance chronicler Valla. The story of the king's death associated with laughter (following a joke told by Borra the jester while Martin was suffering from indigestion) although lacking in historical evidence, has been recorded. Despite the demands to have an heir declared, the physical incapacity of the king prevented him from giving a clear name, and to the question of giving permission to give to the throne to the person who would be most legitimate for it he gave a terse \"Hoc\" (Yes).\n\nAll of Martin's legitimate descendants, born of his marriage with Queen Maria, were already dead, and his second marriage did not produce any children. Only an illegitimate grandson, Frederick, Count of Luna, a natural son of Martin the Younger, and an illegitimate daughter - ineligible for succession due to the rules established during the times of James I the Conqueror - continued the direct line of inheritance. The king, despite his desire and some effort, was unable to obtain sufficient confirmation of Frederick as his successor prior to his death. As a result, Martin's death led to a two-year interregnum, during which at least five contenders for the throne came forward, including Frederick of Luna and James II of Urgell. Succession of the Crown of Aragon was determined by the Compromise of Caspe on 28 June 1412, in which Martin's nephew Ferdinand, infante of Castile was chosen as the next king, establishing the House of Trastámara.\n"}
{"id": "41116218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41116218", "title": "Microbial biogeography", "text": "Microbial biogeography\n\nMicrobial biogeography is a subset of biogeography, a field that concerns the distribution of organisms across space and time. Although biogeography traditionally focused on plants and larger animals, recent studies have broadened this field to include distribution patterns of microorganisms. This extension of biogeography to smaller scales—known as \"microbial biogeography\"—is enabled by ongoing advances in genetic technologies.\n\nThe aim of microbial biogeography is to reveal where microorganisms live, at what abundance, and why. Microbial biogeography can therefore provide insight into the underlying mechanisms that generate and hinder biodiversity. Microbial biogeography also enables predictions of where certain organisms can survive and how they respond to changing environments, making it applicable to several other fields such as climate change research.\n\nSchewiakoff (1893) theorized about the cosmopolitan habitat of free-living protozoans. In 1934, Lourens Baas Becking, based on his own research in California's salt lakes, as well as work by others on salt lakes worldwide, concluded that \"everything is everywhere, but the environment selects\". Baas Becking attributed the first half of this hypothesis to his colleague Martinus Beijerinck (1913).\n\nBaas Becking hypothesis of cosmopolitan microbial distribution would later be challenged by other works.\n\nThe biogeography of macro-organisms (i.e., plants and animals that can be seen with the naked eye) has been studied since the eighteenth century. For macro-organisms, biogeographical patterns (i.e., which organism assemblages appear in specific places and times) appear to arise from both past and current environments. For example, polar bears live in the Arctic but not the Antarctic, while the reverse is true for penguins; although both polar bears and penguins have adapted to cold climates over many generations (the result of past environments), the distance and warmer climates between the north and south poles prevent these species from spreading to the opposite hemisphere (the result of current environments). This demonstrates the biogeographical pattern known as \"isolation with geographic distance\" by which the limited ability of a species to physically disperse across space (rather than any selective genetic reasons) restricts the geographical range over which it can be found.\n\nThe biogeography of microorganisms (i.e., organisms that cannot be seen with the naked eye, such as fungi and bacteria) is an emerging field enabled by ongoing advancements in genetic technologies, in particular cheaper DNA sequencing with higher throughput that now allows analysis of global datasets on microbial biology at the molecular level. When scientists began studying microbial biogeography, they anticipated a lack of biogeographic patterns due to the high dispersibility and large population sizes of microbes, which were expected to ultimately render geographical distance irrelevant. Indeed, in microbial ecology the oft-repeated saying by Lourens Baas Becking that “everything is everywhere, but the environment selects” has come to mean that as long as the environment is ecologically appropriate, geological barriers are irrelevant. However, recent studies show clear evidence for biogeographical patterns in microbial life, which challenge this common interpretation: the existence of microbial biogeographic patterns disputes the idea that “everything is everywhere” while also supporting the idea that environmental selection includes geography as well as historical events that can leave lasting signatures on microbial communities.\n\nMicrobial biogeographic patterns are often similar to those of macro-organisms. Microbes generally follow well-known patterns such as the distance decay relationship, the abundance-range relationship, and Rapoport's rule. This is surprising given the many disparities between microorganisms and macro-organisms, in particular their size (micrometers vs. meters), time between generations (minutes vs. years), and dispersibility (global vs. local). However, important differences between the biogeographical patterns of microorganism and macro-organism do exist, and likely result from differences in their underlying biogeographic processes (e.g., drift, dispersal, selection, and mutation). For example, dispersal is an important biogeographical process for both microbes and larger organisms, but small microbes can disperse across much greater ranges and at much greater speeds by traveling through the atmosphere (for larger animals dispersal is much more constrained due to their size). As a result, many microbial species can be found in both northern and southern hemispheres, while larger animals are typically found only at one pole rather than both.\n\nLarger organisms tend to exhibit latitudinal gradients in species diversity, with larger biodiversity existing in the tropics and decreasing toward more temperate polar regions. In contrast, a study on indoor fungal communities found microbial biodiversity to be significantly higher in temperate zones than in the tropics. The same study found that drastically different buildings exhibited the same indoor fungal composition in any given location, where similarity increased with proximity. Thus despite human efforts to control indoor climates, outside environments appear to be the strongest determinant of indoor fungal composition.\n\nCertain microbial populations exist in opposite hemispheres and at complementary latitudes. These ‘bipolar’ (or ‘antitropical’) distributions are much rarer in macro-organisms; although macro-organisms exhibit latitude gradients, ‘isolation by geographic distance’ prevents bipolar distributions (e.g., polar bears are not found at both poles). In contrast, a study on marine surface bacteria showed not only a latitude gradient, but also complementarity distributions with similar populations at both poles, suggesting no \"isolation by geographic distance\". This is likely due to differences in the underlying biogeographic process, dispersal, as microbes tend to disperse at high rates and far distances by traveling through the atmosphere.\n\nMicrobial diversity can exhibit striking seasonal patterns at a single geographical location. This is largely due to dormancy, a microbial feature not seen in larger animals that allows microbial community composition to fluctuate in relative abundance of persistent species (rather than actual species present). This is known as the \"seed-bank hypothesis\" and has implications for our understanding of ecological resilience and thresholds to change.\n\nPanspermia suggests that life can be distributed throughout outer space via comets, asteroids, and meteoroids. Panspermia assumes that life can survive the harsh space environment, which features vacuum conditions, intense radiation, extreme temperatures, and a dearth of available nutrients. Many microorganisms are able to evade such stressors by forming spores or entering a state of low-metabolic dormancy. Studies in microbial biogeography have even shown that the ability of microbes to enter and successfully emerge from dormancy when their respective environmental conditions are favorable contributes to the high levels of microbial biodiversity observed in almost all ecosystems. Thus microbial biogeography can be applied to panspermia as it predicts that microbes are able to protect themselves from the harsh space environment, know to emerge when conditions are safe, and also take advantage of their dormancy capability to enhance biodiversity wherever they may land.\n\nDirected panspermia is the deliberate transport of microorganisms to colonize another planet. If aiming to colonize an Earth-like environment, microbial biogeography can inform decisions on the biological payload of such a mission. In particular, microbes exhibit latitudinal ranges according to Rapoport's rule, which states that organisms living at lower latitudes (near the equator) are found within smaller latitude ranges than those living at higher latitudes (near the poles). Thus the ideal biological payload would include widespread, higher-latitude microorganisms that can tolerate of a wider range of climates. This is not necessarily the obvious choice, as these widespread organisms are also rare in microbial communities and tend to be weaker competitors when faced with endemic organisms. Still, they can survive in a range of climates and thus would be ideal for inhabiting otherwise lifeless Earth-like planets with uncertain environmental conditions. Extremophiles, although tough enough to withstand the space environment, may not be ideal for directed panspermia as any given extremophile species requires a very specific climate to survive. However, if the target was closer to Earth, such as a planet or moon in our Solar System, it may be possible to select a specific extremophile species for the well-defined target environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "7843316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7843316", "title": "Mike Abrams", "text": "Mike Abrams\n\n\"Big\" Mike Abrams (died 1898) was a New York criminal and a longtime figure in the underworld of New York's Chinatown. \n\nA criminal for hire on the streets of New York's Chinatown, Mike Abrams was one of many employed by the Tongs and others for assault and murder for hire among other criminal activities. He also operated opium dens on Pell Street as well as on Coney Island and, during his later years, took in protection money from similar establishments. \n\nHowever, despite his business activities, he had a violent and dangerous reputation among the residents of Chinatown particularly the decapitations of three men in front of dozens of witnesses on Pell Street.\n\nAlthough feared by many Tong hatchetmen, Abrams was attacked by a drunken Hip Sing hatchetman Sassy Sam who chased the unarmed Abrams with a ceremonial sword down Pell Street. Despite the murder and decapitation of Hip Sing chief Ling Tchen, Abrams lost a considerable amount of respect from the Tongs after the embarrassing incident and soon began plotting against him.\n\nLess than a month after Ling Tchen's murder, police found the body of Abrams whose room had been filled with gas while he was asleep. A further investigation found the door and windows of his room had been blocked off and a thin hose from a gas jet in the hall had been stuffed into the keyhole.\n\nAlthough credited in the underworld for Abram's murder, the Hip Sing Association never claimed responsibility (possibly fearing retribution from Abrams associates elsewhere in New York).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29153907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29153907", "title": "Plantoid", "text": "Plantoid\n\nA plantoid is a robot or synthetic organism designed to look, act and grow like a plant. The concept was first scientifically published in 2010 (although models of comparable systems controlled by neural networks date back to 2003) and has so far remained largely theoretical. A prototype for the European Space Agency is now in development.\n\nA plantoid incorporates an inherently distributed architecture consisting of autonomous and specialized modules. Modules can be modeled on plant parts such as the root cap and communicate to form a simple swarm intelligence. This kind of system may display great robustness and resilience. It is conjectured to be capable of energy harvesting and management, collective environmental awareness and many other functions.\n\nIn science fiction, while human-like robots (androids) are fairly frequent and animal-like biomorphic robots turn up occasionally, plantoids are quite rare. Exceptions occur in the novel \"Hearts, Hands and Voices\" (1992, US: \"The Broken Land\") by Ian McDonald and the TV series \"Jikuu Senshi Spielban\".\n\nIn 2016 an autonomous plantoid was deployed to accept bitcoin donations and use them to pay artists to replicate it. It is a distributed autonomous organization (DAO). The plantoid was created by Primavera De Filippi, the founder of Okhaos, an art collective behind the effort, who is also a faculty associate at the Berkman-Klein Center at Harvard University and a researcher at the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique. Self-executing software (a \"smart contract\") on the blockchain automates the transactions. Donors vote to determine which artist (or group of artists) build the next version. The plantoid contracts with the artists and pays them as part of the contract. Earlier plantoid versions and their creators receive a portion of the donations from their descendants, creating a \"multi-level marketing\" incentive for each generation to have as many descendants as possible. The creators presume that more aesthetically attractive versions will attract more donations, creating an incentive for the artists to produce ever-more pleasing designs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1764200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1764200", "title": "Red meat", "text": "Red meat\n\nIn gastronomy, red meat is commonly red when raw and a dark color after it is cooked, in contrast to white meat, which is pale in color before and after cooking.\n\nIn culinary terms, only flesh from mammals or fowl (not fish) is classified as red or white. In nutritional science, on the other hand, red meat is defined as any meat that has more of the protein myoglobin than \"white meat\", defined as non-dark meat from chicken (excluding the leg or thigh) or fish. Some meat, such as pork, is classified as red meat under the nutritional definition, and white meat under the common or gastronomic definition.\n\nAccording to the USDA, all meats obtained from mammals (regardless of cut or age) are red meats because they contain more myoglobin than fish or white meat (but not necessarily dark meat) from chicken.\nUnder the culinary definition, the meat from adult or 'gamey' mammals (for example, beef, horse meat, mutton, venison, boar, hare) is red meat, while that from young mammals (rabbit, veal, lamb) is white. Most poultry is white, but duck and goose are red. Most cuts of pork are red, others are white. Game is sometimes put in a separate category altogether. (French: \"viandes noires\" — \"dark meats\".) Some meats (lamb, pork) are classified differently by different writers.\n\nSome cuts of pork are considered white under the culinary definition, but all pork is red in nutritional studies. The National Pork Board has positioned it as \"Pork. The Other White Meat\", profiting from the ambiguity to suggest that pork has the nutritional properties of white meat, which is considered more healthful.\n\nRed meat contains large amounts of iron, creatine, minerals such as zinc and phosphorus, and B-vitamins: (niacin, vitamin B, thiamin and riboflavin). Red meat is a source of lipoic acid.\n\nRed meat contains small amounts of vitamin D. The liver contains much higher quantities than other parts of the animal.\n\nIn 2011, the USDA launched MyPlate, which did not distinguish between kinds of meat, but did recommend eating at least 8 oz (227 grams) of fish each week. In 2011, the Harvard School of Public Health launched the Healthy Eating Plate in part because of the perceived inadequacies of the USDA's recommendations. The Healthy Eating Plate encourages consumers to avoid processed meat and limit red meat consumption to twice a week because of links to heart disease, diabetes, and colon cancer. To replace these meats it recommends consuming fish, poultry, beans or nuts.\n\nRed meat is not a uniform product; its health effects can vary based on fat content, processing and preparation. Processed red meat is linked to higher mortality, mainly due to cardiovascular diseases and cancer. There is some evidence that the consumption of unprocessed red meat may have negative health effects in humans.\n\nHealth concerns have been raised about the consumption of meat increasing the risk of cancer. In particular, red meat and processed meat were found to be associated with higher risk of cancers of the lung, esophagus, liver, and colon, among others — although also a reduced risk for some minor type of cancers.\n\nThe International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) is the specialized cancer agency of the World Health Organization (WHO). IARC classified processed meat (e.g., bacon, ham, hot dogs, sausages) as, \"\"carcinogenic to humans\" (Group 1), based on \"sufficient evidence\" in humans that the consumption of processed meat causes colorectal cancer.\" IARC also classified red meat as \"\"probably carcinogenic to humans\" (Group 2A), based on \"limited evidence\" that the consumption of red meat causes cancer in humans and \"strong\" mechanistic evidence supporting a carcinogenic effect.\" Subsequent studies have shown that taxing processed meat products could save lives, particularly in the West where meat intensive diets are the norm. If the amount of taxation was linked to the level of harm they caused, some processed meats, such as bacon and sausages, would nearly double in price.\n\nAnother study found an increase risk of pancreatic cancer for red meat and pork. That study noted that, \"findings suggest that intakes of red meat and processed meat are positively associated with pancreatic cancer risk and thus are potential target factors for disease prevention. [...] Future analyses of meat and pancreatic cancer risk should focus on meat preparation methods and related carcinogens.\"\n\nThat study also suggests that fat and saturated fat are not likely contributors to pancreatic cancer. Animal fat, particularly from ruminants, tends to have a higher percentage of saturated fat vs. monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fat when compared to vegetable fats, with the exception of some tropical plant fats; consumption of which has been correlated with various health problems. The saturated fat found in meat has been associated with significantly raised risks of colon cancer, although evidence suggests that risks of prostate cancer are unrelated to animal fat consumption.\n\nOther research does not support significant links between meat consumption and various cancers. Key et al. found that \"There were no significant differences between vegetarians and nonvegetarians in mortality from cerebrovascular disease, stomach cancer, colorectal cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer or all other causes combined.\" Truswell reviewed numerous studies, concluding that the relationship of colorectal cancer with meat consumption appeared weaker than the \"probable\" status it had been given by the World Cancer Research Foundation in 1997. A study by Chao et al. (2005) found an apparent association of colorectal cancer with red meat consumption after adjustment for age and energy intake. However, after further adjustment for body mass index, cigarette smoking and other covariates, no association with red meat consumption was found. Alex' ander conducted a meta-analysis which found no association of colorectal cancer with consumption of animal fat or protein. Based on European data (EPIC-Oxford study), Key et al. found that incidence of colorectal cancer was somewhat lower among meat eaters than among vegetarians. However, they concluded that 'the study is not large enough to exclude small or moderate differences for specific causes of death, and more research on this topic is required'. A study within the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC) found that association between esophageal cancer risk and total and processed meat intake was not statistically significant.\n\nThe consensus on the role of red meat consumption to increased risk of cardiovascular diseases has changed in recent years. Studies that differentiate between processed and fresh red meat have failed to find a link between unprocessed red meat consumption and heart disease. A meta-analysis published in 2010 involving around one million people who ate meat found that only processed meat had an adverse risk in relation to coronary heart disease (CHD).< The review suggested that the \"differences in salt and preservatives, rather than fats, might explain the higher risk of heart disease and diabetes seen with processed meats, but not with unprocessed red meats.\" Some mechanisms that have been suggested for why red meat consumption might be risk factor for cardiovascular disease include: its impact on serum cholesterol, that red meat contains arachidonic acid, heme iron, homocysteine, and its high saturated fat content.\n\nSeveral studies have found a correlation between unprocessed red meat and the occurrence of CHD and certain types of stroke and have controlled for various confounding risk factors. A study of 84,000 women, over a period of 26 years, finds that those with the highest intake of unprocessed red meat, have a 13% increased risk of CHD. Likewise a Harvard study published in 2012, studying mortality as a result of processed and unprocessed red meat consumption finds that one serving of either type of meat a day results in an increased risk of mortality of 13%, while this ratio is indicative of cancer and cardiovascular (CVD) disease, the study indicates that of the 23,926 deaths investigated during the course of the study, 5910 of them were related to CVD and there was no statistical significance between the risk of unprocessed and processed red meats factors in the occurrence of CVD. The disparity between metadata studies definitely need to be addressed, because while one points toward unprocessed red meat being insignificant in certain health risks, there are still correlations to be found in focused large cohort studies.\n\nUnprocessed red meat intake is tentatively associated with an increased risk of type II diabetes, but the link is weaker and less certain than the link between processed red meat and diabetes. Other findings have suggested that the association may be due to saturated fat, trans fat and dietary cholesterol, rather than red meat per se. One study estimated that “substitutions of one serving of nuts, low-fat dairy, and whole grains per day for one serving of red meat per day were associated with a 16–35% lower risk of type 2 diabetes”.\n\nA 2012 meta-analysis found an increased risk of gastric cancer with higher consumption of red or processed meat. Red meat itself contains certain factors that, under certain conditions, produce carcinogens like N-nitroso compounds (NOCs).\n\nIn 2015 the International Agency for Research on Cancer concluded that red meat is probably (Group 2A) carcinogenic to humans, and reported that for each additional 100g (up to a maximum of approximately 140g) of red meat consumed per day, the risk of colorectal cancer increased by 17%; there also appeared to be increased risk of pancreatic cancer and prostate cancer but the association was not as clear. Put in perspective, in the UK, 56 out of 1000 people who eat the lowest amount of red meat will develop colorectal cancer (5.6%) while 66 out of 1000 high-red meat eaters will develop colorectal cancer (6.6%) (1.17 x 5.6 = 6.6).\n\nA 2016 literature review reported that for 100g or more per day of red meat consumed, the risk increased 11% for each of stroke and for breast cancer, 15% for cardiovascular mortality, 17% for colorectal cancer, and 19% for advanced prostate cancer.\n\nMost processed meat contains at least some red meat. To enhance flavor or improve preservation meat is treated by salting, curing, fermentation, smoking, or other processes to create processed meat. Nitrates and nitrites found in processed meat (e.g. bacon, ham, salami, pepperoni, hot dogs, and some sausages) can be converted by the human body into nitrosamines that can be carcinogenic, causing mutation in the colorectal cell line, thereby causing tumorigenesis and eventually leading to cancer. In its Press Release 240 (16 Oct. 2015) the International Agency for Research on Cancer, based on a review of 800 studies over 20 years, concluded that processed meat is definitely carcinogenic (Group 1) and found that for each additional 50g of processed meat consumed per day, the risk of colorectal cancer increased by 18% (up to a maximum of approximately 140g); it also found that there appeared to be an increase in gastric cancer but this was not as clear.\n\nA 2016 literature review found that for the each additional 50g per day of processed meat (e.g., bacon, ham, hot dogs, sausages) consumed, the risk increased 4% for total prostate cancer, 8% for cancer mortality, 9% for breast cancer, 18% for colorectal cancer, 19% for pancreatic cancer, 13% for stroke, 24% for cardiovascular mortality and 32% for diabetes.\n\nCooking any meat at a high temperature or smoking meat produces carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon compounds (PAHs) and heterocyclic amines (HCAs). The subgroups of heterocyclic amines compounds are amino-dimethylimidazo-quinoxaline (MelQx), amino-dimethylimidazo-quinoxaline (DiMelQx), and amino-methyl-phenylimidazo-pyridine (PhIP), which are mostly formed when meat is cooked at high temperatures. Benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) is another compound found in meat cooked at extremely high temperatures. Likely because of these factors, marinating fresh lean red meat, and thoroughly cooking it at a low temperature will reduce the production of carcinogenic compounds and thereby lower the risk of colorectal cancer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "442556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=442556", "title": "Remipedia", "text": "Remipedia\n\nRemipedia is a class of blind crustaceans found in coastal aquifers which contain saline groundwater, with populations identified in almost every ocean basin so far explored, including in Australia, the Caribbean Sea, and the Atlantic Ocean. The first described remipede was the fossil \"Tesnusocaris goldichi\" (Lower Pennsylvanian), but, since 1979, at least seventeen living species have been identified in subtropical regions around the world.\n\nGenetic studies have implied that remipedes are the arthropods most closely related to insects, so much so that they and insects may be considered a sister group to all other crustacea.\n\nRemipedes are long and comprise a head and an elongate trunk of up to thirty-two similar body segments. They lack eyes and pigmentation. The swimming appendages are lateral on each segment, and the animals swim on their backs. They are generally slow-moving. They are the only known venomous crustaceans, and have fangs connected to secretory glands, which inject a combination of digestive enzymes and venom into their prey. They have a generally primitive body plan in crustacean terms, and have been thought to be a basal, ancestral crustacean group. However, Fanenbruck \"et al.\" showed that at least one species, \"Godzilliognomus frondosus\", has a highly organized and well-differentiated brain, with a particularly large olfactory area which is a common feature for species that live in dark environments.\n\nThe class Remipedia was erected in 1981 by Jill Yager, in describing \"Speleonectes lucayensis\" from the Bahamas. The name \"Remipedia\" is from the Latin \"\", meaning \"oar-footed\". Remipedia is grouped together with Cephalocarida to form the clade Xenocarida. Besides Cephalocarida, the closest relatives of remipedes are probably the Hexapoda (insects and allies), supporting the Pancrustacea hypothesis and the paraphyly of Crustacea.\n\nTwenty eight extant species are recognised as of early 2016, divided among eight families and twelve genera. All are placed in the order Nectiopoda; the second order, Enantiopoda, comprises the fossil species \"Tesnusocaris goldichi\" and \"Cryptocaris hootchi\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33882670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33882670", "title": "Sea bamboo", "text": "Sea bamboo\n\nSea bamboo is a common name for several organisms and may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "36188781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36188781", "title": "Si (concept)", "text": "Si (concept)\n\nSi 思 is a concept in Chinese philosophy that is usually translated as \"reflection\" or \"concentration.\" It refers to a species of attentive, non-rational thought that is directed at a specific subject.\n"}
{"id": "56182345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56182345", "title": "Sloth Sanctuary of Costa Rica", "text": "Sloth Sanctuary of Costa Rica\n\nThe Sloth Sanctuary of Costa Rica () is a privately owned animal rescue center located near the city of Cahuita. The Sanctuary is dedicated to the rescue, rehabilitation, research, and release of injured or orphaned sloths. Tours of the Sanctuary are offered to the public.\n\nAfter the 1991 Limon earthquake ended their birding tourism business, Judy Avey-Arroyo and her husband Luis Arroyo built a hotel on their property. In 1992, three girls brought the Arroyos an orphaned baby three-toed sloth. At the time, very little was known about sloth biology. By observing what the wild sloths on their property ate, the couple were able to hand-rear the sloth, named Buttercup, who still currently lives in the Sanctuary. In 1997, the Sanctuary was officially recognized as a rescue center, becoming Costa Rica's first sloth-only facility.\n\nThe lives of the Sanctuary's sloth residents were documented in the 2013 Animal Planet television series, \"Meet the Sloths\". In 2016, two former employees accused the Sanctuary of animal mistreatment, which Avey-Arroyo denied.\n"}
{"id": "625404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=625404", "title": "Stroke", "text": "Stroke\n\nA stroke is a medical condition in which poor blood flow to the brain results in cell death. There are two main types of stroke: ischemic, due to lack of blood flow, and hemorrhagic, due to bleeding. They result in part of the brain not functioning properly. Signs and symptoms of a stroke may include an inability to move or feel on one side of the body, problems understanding or speaking, dizziness, or loss of vision to one side. Signs and symptoms often appear soon after the stroke has occurred. If symptoms last less than one or two hours it is known as a transient ischemic attack (TIA) or mini-stroke. A hemorrhagic stroke may also be associated with a severe headache. The symptoms of a stroke can be permanent. Long-term complications may include pneumonia or loss of bladder control.\nThe main risk factor for stroke is high blood pressure. Other risk factors include tobacco smoking, obesity, high blood cholesterol, diabetes mellitus, a previous TIA, and atrial fibrillation. An ischemic stroke is typically caused by blockage of a blood vessel, though there are also less common causes. A hemorrhagic stroke is caused by either bleeding directly into the brain or into the space between the brain's membranes. Bleeding may occur due to a ruptured brain aneurysm. Diagnosis is typically based on a physical exam and supported by medical imaging such as a CT scan or MRI scan. A CT scan can rule out bleeding, but may not necessarily rule out ischemia, which early on typically does not show up on a CT scan. Other tests such as an electrocardiogram (ECG) and blood tests are done to determine risk factors and rule out other possible causes. Low blood sugar may cause similar symptoms.\nPrevention includes decreasing risk factors, as well as possibly aspirin, statins, surgery to open up the arteries to the brain in those with problematic narrowing, and warfarin in those with atrial fibrillation. A stroke or TIA often requires emergency care. An ischemic stroke, if detected within three to four and half hours, may be treatable with a medication that can break down the clot. Aspirin should be used. Some hemorrhagic strokes benefit from surgery. Treatment to try to recover lost function is called stroke rehabilitation and ideally takes place in a stroke unit; however, these are not available in much of the world.\nIn 2013 approximately 6.9 million people had an ischemic stroke and 3.4 million people had a hemorrhagic stroke. In 2015 there were about 42.4 million people who had previously had a stroke and were still alive. Between 1990 and 2010 the number of strokes which occurred each year decreased by approximately 10% in the developed world and increased by 10% in the developing world. In 2015, stroke was the second most frequent cause of death after coronary artery disease, accounting for 6.3 million deaths (11% of the total). About 3.0 million deaths resulted from ischemic stroke while 3.3 million deaths resulted from hemorrhagic stroke. About half of people who have had a stroke live less than one year. Overall, two thirds of strokes occurred in those over 65 years old.\n\nStrokes can be classified into two major categories: ischemic and hemorrhagic. Ischemic strokes are caused by interruption of the blood supply to the brain, while hemorrhagic strokes result from the rupture of a blood vessel or an abnormal vascular structure. About 87% of strokes are ischemic, the rest being hemorrhagic. Bleeding can develop inside areas of ischemia, a condition known as \"hemorrhagic transformation.\" It is unknown how many hemorrhagic strokes actually start as ischemic strokes.\n\nIn the 1970s the World Health Organization defined stroke as a \"neurological deficit of cerebrovascular cause that persists beyond 24 hours or is interrupted by death within 24 hours\", although the word \"stroke\" is centuries old. This definition was supposed to reflect the reversibility of tissue damage and was devised for the purpose, with the time frame of 24 hours being chosen arbitrarily. The 24-hour limit divides stroke from transient ischemic attack, which is a related syndrome of stroke symptoms that resolve completely within 24 hours. With the availability of treatments which can reduce stroke severity when given early, many now prefer alternative terminology, such as brain attack and acute ischemic cerebrovascular syndrome (modeled after heart attack and acute coronary syndrome, respectively), to reflect the urgency of stroke symptoms and the need to act swiftly.\n\nIn an ischemic stroke, blood supply to part of the brain is decreased, leading to dysfunction of the brain tissue in that area. There are four reasons why this might happen:\n\n\nA stroke without an obvious explanation is termed cryptogenic (of unknown origin); this constitutes 30-40% of all ischemic strokes.\n\nThere are various classification systems for acute ischemic stroke. The Oxford Community Stroke Project classification (OCSP, also known as the Bamford or Oxford classification) relies primarily on the initial symptoms; based on the extent of the symptoms, the stroke episode is classified as total anterior circulation infarct (TACI), partial anterior circulation infarct (PACI), lacunar infarct (LACI) or posterior circulation infarct (POCI). These four entities predict the extent of the stroke, the area of the brain that is affected, the underlying cause, and the prognosis. The TOAST (Trial of Org 10172 in Acute Stroke Treatment) classification is based on clinical symptoms as well as results of further investigations; on this basis, a stroke is classified as being due to (1) thrombosis or embolism due to atherosclerosis of a large artery, (2) an embolism originating in the heart, (3) complete blockage of a small blood vessel, (4) other determined cause, (5) undetermined cause (two possible causes, no cause identified, or incomplete investigation). Users of stimulants, such as cocaine and methamphetamine are at a high risk for ischemic strokes.\n\nThere are two main types of hemorrhagic stroke:\nThe above two main types of hemorrhagic stroke are also two different forms of intracranial hemorrhage, which is the accumulation of blood anywhere within the cranial vault; but the other forms of intracranial hemorrhage, such as epidural hematoma (bleeding between the skull and the dura mater, which is the thick \"outermost\" layer of the meninges that surround the brain) and subdural hematoma (bleeding in the subdural space), are not considered \"hemorrhagic strokes\".\n\nHemorrhagic strokes may occur on the background of alterations to the blood vessels in the brain, such as cerebral amyloid angiopathy, cerebral arteriovenous malformation and an intracranial aneurysm, which can cause intraparenchymal or subarachnoid hemorrhage.\n\nIn addition to neurological impairment, hemorrhagic strokes usually cause specific symptoms (for instance, subarachnoid hemorrhage classically causes a severe headache known as a thunderclap headache) or reveal evidence of a previous head injury.\n\nStroke symptoms typically start suddenly, over seconds to minutes, and in most cases do not progress further. The symptoms depend on the area of the brain affected. The more extensive the area of the brain affected, the more functions that are likely to be lost. Some forms of stroke can cause additional symptoms. For example, in intracranial hemorrhage, the affected area may compress other structures. Most forms of stroke are not associated with a headache, apart from subarachnoid hemorrhage and cerebral venous thrombosis and occasionally intracerebral hemorrhage.\n\nVarious systems have been proposed to increase recognition of stroke. Different findings are able to predict the presence or absence of stroke to different degrees. Sudden-onset face weakness, arm drift (i.e., if a person, when asked to raise both arms, involuntarily lets one arm drift downward) and abnormal speech are the findings most likely to lead to the correct identification of a case of stroke increasing the likelihood by 5.5 when at least one of these is present). Similarly, when all three of these are absent, the likelihood of stroke is decreased (– likelihood ratio of 0.39). While these findings are not perfect for diagnosing stroke, the fact that they can be evaluated relatively rapidly and easily make them very valuable in the acute setting.\n\nA mnemonic to remember the warning signs of stroke is FAST (facial droop, arm weakness, speech difficulty, and time to call emergency services), as advocated by the Department of Health (United Kingdom) and the Stroke Association, the American Stroke Association, the National Stroke Association (US), the Los Angeles Prehospital Stroke Screen (LAPSS) and the Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale (CPSS). Use of these scales is recommended by professional guidelines.\n\nFor people referred to the emergency room, early recognition of stroke is deemed important as this can expedite diagnostic tests and treatments. A scoring system called ROSIER (recognition of stroke in the emergency room) is recommended for this purpose; it is based on features from the medical history and physical examination.\n\nIf the area of the brain affected includes one of the three prominent central nervous system pathways—the spinothalamic tract, corticospinal tract, and the dorsal column–medial lemniscus pathway, symptoms may include:\n\n\nIn most cases, the symptoms affect only one side of the body (unilateral). Depending on the part of the brain affected, the defect in the brain is \"usually\" on the opposite side of the body. However, since these pathways also travel in the spinal cord and any lesion there can also produce these symptoms, the presence of any one of these symptoms does not necessarily indicate a stroke. In addition to the above CNS pathways, the \"brainstem\" gives rise to most of the twelve cranial nerves. A brainstem stroke affecting the brainstem and brain, therefore, can produce symptoms relating to deficits in these cranial nerves:\n\nIf the \"cerebral cortex\" is involved, the CNS pathways can again be affected, but also can produce the following symptoms:\n\nIf the \"cerebellum\" is involved, ataxia might be present and this includes:\n\nLoss of consciousness, headache, and vomiting usually occur more often in hemorrhagic stroke than in thrombosis because of the increased intracranial pressure from the leaking blood compressing the brain.\n\nIf symptoms are maximal at onset, the cause is more likely to be a subarachnoid hemorrhage or an embolic stroke.\n\nIn thrombotic stroke, a thrombus (blood clot) usually forms around atherosclerotic plaques. Since blockage of the artery is gradual, onset of symptomatic thrombotic strokes is slower than that of a hemorrhagic stroke. A thrombus itself (even if it does not completely block the blood vessel) can lead to an embolic stroke (see below) if the thrombus breaks off and travels in the bloodstream, at which point it is called an embolus. Two types of thrombosis can cause stroke:\n\nSickle-cell anemia, which can cause blood cells to clump up and block blood vessels, can also lead to stroke. A stroke is the second leading cause of death in people under 20 with sickle-cell anemia. Air pollution may also increase stroke risk.\n\nAn embolic stroke refers to an arterial embolism (a blockage of an artery) by an embolus, a traveling particle or debris in the arterial bloodstream originating from elsewhere. An embolus is most frequently a thrombus, but it can also be a number of other substances including fat (e.g., from bone marrow in a broken bone), air, cancer cells or clumps of bacteria (usually from infectious endocarditis).\n\nBecause an embolus arises from elsewhere, local therapy solves the problem only temporarily. Thus, the source of the embolus must be identified. Because the embolic blockage is sudden in onset, symptoms usually are maximal at the start. Also, symptoms may be transient as the embolus is partially resorbed and moves to a different location or dissipates altogether.\n\nEmboli most commonly arise from the heart (especially in atrial fibrillation) but may originate from elsewhere in the arterial tree. In paradoxical embolism, a deep vein thrombosis embolizes through an atrial or ventricular septal defect in the heart into the brain.\n\nCauses of stroke related to the heart can be distinguished between high and low-risk:\n\nAmong those who have a complete blockage of one of the carotid arteries, the risk of stroke on that side is about one percent per year.\n\nA special form of embolic stroke is the embolic stroke of undetermined source (ESUS). This subset of cryptogenetic stroke is defined as a non-lacunar brain infarct without proximal arterial stenosis or cardioembolic sources. About one out of six ischemic strokes could be classified as ESUS.\n\nCerebral hypoperfusion is the reduction of blood flow to all parts of the brain. The reduction could be to a particular part of the brain depending on the cause. It is most commonly due to heart failure from cardiac arrest or arrhythmias, or from reduced cardiac output as a result of myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, pericardial effusion, or bleeding. Hypoxemia (low blood oxygen content) may precipitate the hypoperfusion. Because the reduction in blood flow is global, all parts of the brain may be affected, especially vulnerable \"watershed\" areas - border zone regions supplied by the major cerebral arteries. A watershed stroke refers to the condition when the blood supply to these areas is compromised. Blood flow to these areas does not necessarily stop, but instead it may lessen to the point where brain damage can occur.\n\nCerebral venous sinus thrombosis leads to stroke due to locally increased venous pressure, which exceeds the pressure generated by the arteries. Infarcts are more likely to undergo hemorrhagic transformation (leaking of blood into the damaged area) than other types of ischemic stroke.\n\nIt generally occurs in small arteries or arterioles and is commonly due to hypertension, intracranial vascular malformations (including cavernous angiomas or arteriovenous malformations), cerebral amyloid angiopathy, or infarcts into which secondary hemorrhage has occurred. Other potential causes are trauma, bleeding disorders, amyloid angiopathy, illicit drug use (e.g., amphetamines or cocaine). The hematoma enlarges until pressure from surrounding tissue limits its growth, or until it decompresses by emptying into the ventricular system, CSF or the pial surface. A third of intracerebral bleed is into the brain's ventricles. ICH has a mortality rate of 44 percent after 30 days, higher than ischemic stroke or subarachnoid hemorrhage (which technically may also be classified as a type of stroke).\n\nOther causes may include spasm of an artery. This may occur due to cocaine.\n\nA silent stroke is a stroke that does not have any outward symptoms, and the patients are typically unaware they have had a stroke. Despite not causing identifiable symptoms, a silent stroke still damages the brain, and places the patient at increased risk for both transient ischemic attack and major stroke in the future. Conversely, those who have had a major stroke are also at risk of having silent strokes. In a broad study in 1998, more than 11 million people were estimated to have experienced a stroke in the United States. Approximately 770,000 of these strokes were symptomatic and 11 million were first-ever silent MRI infarcts or hemorrhages. Silent strokes typically cause lesions which are detected via the use of neuroimaging such as MRI. Silent strokes are estimated to occur at five times the rate of symptomatic strokes. The risk of silent stroke increases with age, but may also affect younger adults and children, especially those with acute anemia.\n\nIschemic stroke occurs because of a loss of blood supply to part of the brain, initiating the ischemic cascade. Brain tissue ceases to function if deprived of oxygen for more than 60 to 90 seconds, and after approximately three hours will suffer irreversible injury possibly leading to the death of the tissue, i.e., infarction. (This is why fibrinolytics such as alteplase are given only until three hours since the onset of the stroke.) Atherosclerosis may disrupt the blood supply by narrowing the lumen of blood vessels leading to a reduction of blood flow, by causing the formation of blood clots within the vessel, or by releasing showers of small emboli through the disintegration of atherosclerotic plaques. Embolic infarction occurs when emboli formed elsewhere in the circulatory system, typically in the heart as a consequence of atrial fibrillation, or in the carotid arteries, break off, enter the cerebral circulation, then lodge in and block brain blood vessels. Since blood vessels in the brain are now blocked, the brain becomes low in energy, and thus it resorts to using anaerobic metabolism within the region of brain tissue affected by ischemia. Anaerobic metabolism produces less adenosine triphosphate (ATP) but releases a by-product called lactic acid. Lactic acid is an irritant which could potentially destroy cells since it is an acid and disrupts the normal acid-base balance in the brain. The ischemia area is referred to as the \"ischemic penumbra\".\n\nAs oxygen or glucose becomes depleted in ischemic brain tissue, the production of high energy phosphate compounds such as adenosine triphosphate (ATP) fails, leading to failure of energy-dependent processes (such as ion pumping) necessary for tissue cell survival. This sets off a series of interrelated events that result in cellular injury and death. A major cause of neuronal injury is the release of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate. The concentration of glutamate outside the cells of the nervous system is normally kept low by so-called uptake carriers, which are powered by the concentration gradients of ions (mainly Na) across the cell membrane. However, stroke cuts off the supply of oxygen and glucose which powers the ion pumps maintaining these gradients. As a result, the transmembrane ion gradients run down, and glutamate transporters reverse their direction, releasing glutamate into the extracellular space. Glutamate acts on receptors in nerve cells (especially NMDA receptors), producing an influx of calcium which activates enzymes that digest the cells' proteins, lipids, and nuclear material. Calcium influx can also lead to the failure of mitochondria, which can lead further toward energy depletion and may trigger cell death due to programmed cell death.\n\nIschemia also induces production of oxygen free radicals and other reactive oxygen species. These react with and damage a number of cellular and extracellular elements. Damage to the blood vessel lining or endothelium is particularly important. In fact, many antioxidant neuroprotectants such as uric acid and NXY-059 work at the level of the endothelium and not in the brain \"per se\". Free radicals also directly initiate elements of the programmed cell death cascade by means of redox signaling.\n\nThese processes are the same for any type of ischemic tissue and are referred to collectively as the \"ischemic cascade\". However, brain tissue is especially vulnerable to ischemia since it has little respiratory reserve and is completely dependent on aerobic metabolism, unlike most other organs.\n\nIn addition to damaging effects on brain cells, ischemia and infarction can result in loss of structural integrity of brain tissue and blood vessels, partly through the release of matrix metalloproteases, which are zinc- and calcium-dependent enzymes that break down collagen, hyaluronic acid, and other elements of connective tissue. Other proteases also contribute to this process. The loss of vascular structural integrity results in a breakdown of the protective blood brain barrier that contributes to cerebral edema, which can cause secondary progression of the brain injury.\n\nHemorrhagic strokes are classified based on their underlying pathology. Some causes of hemorrhagic stroke are hypertensive hemorrhage, ruptured aneurysm, ruptured AV fistula, transformation of prior ischemic infarction, and drug induced bleeding. They result in tissue injury by causing compression of tissue from an expanding hematoma or hematomas. In addition, the pressure may lead to a loss of blood supply to affected tissue with resulting infarction, and the blood released by brain hemorrhage appears to have direct toxic effects on brain tissue and vasculature. Inflammation contributes to the secondary brain injury after hemorrhage.\n\nStroke is diagnosed through several techniques: a neurological examination (such as the NIHSS), CT scans (most often without contrast enhancements) or MRI scans, Doppler ultrasound, and arteriography. The diagnosis of stroke itself is clinical, with assistance from the imaging techniques. Imaging techniques also assist in determining the subtypes and cause of stroke. There is yet no commonly used blood test for the stroke diagnosis itself, though blood tests may be of help in finding out the likely cause of stroke.\n\nA physical examination, including taking a medical history of the symptoms and a neurological status, helps giving an evaluation of the location and severity of a stroke. It can give a standard score on e.g., the NIH stroke scale.\n\nFor diagnosing ischemic (blockage) stroke in the emergency setting:\n\nFor diagnosing hemorrhagic stroke in the emergency setting:\n\nFor detecting chronic hemorrhages, MRI scan is more sensitive.\n\nFor the assessment of stable stroke, nuclear medicine scans SPECT and PET/CT may be helpful. SPECT documents cerebral blood flow and PET with FDG isotope the metabolic activity of the neurons.\n\nCT scans may not detect an ischemic stroke, especially if it is small, of recent onset, or in the brainstem or cerebellum areas. A CT scan is more to \"rule out\" certain stroke mimics and detect bleeding.\n\nWhen a stroke has been diagnosed, various other studies may be performed to determine the underlying cause. With the current treatment and diagnosis options available, it is of particular importance to determine whether there is a peripheral source of emboli. Test selection may vary since the cause of stroke varies with age, comorbidity and the clinical presentation. The following are commonly used techniques:\n\nFor hemorrhagic strokes, a CT or MRI scan with intravascular contrast may be able to identify abnormalities in the brain arteries (such as aneurysms) or other sources of bleeding, and structural MRI if this shows no cause. If this too does not identify an underlying reason for the bleeding, invasive cerebral angiography could be performed but this requires access to the bloodstream with an intravascular catheter and can cause further strokes as well as complications at the insertion site and this investigation is therefore reserved for specific situations. If there are symptoms suggesting that the hemorrhage might have occurred as a result of venous thrombosis, CT or MRI venography can be used to examine the cerebral veins.\n\nAmong people with ischemic strokes, misdiagnosed occurs 2 to 26% of the time. A \"stroke chameleon\" (SC) is stroke which is diagnosed as something else.\n\nPeople not having a stroke may also be misdiagnosed as a stroke. Giving thrombolytics (clot-busting) in such cases causes intracerebral bleeding 1 to 2% of the time, which is less than that of people with strokes. This unnecessary treatment adds to health care costs. Even so, the AHA/ASA guidelines state that starting intravenous tPA in possible mimics is preferred to delaying treatment for additional testing.\n\nWomen, African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, Asian and Pacific Islanders are more often misdiagnosed for a condition other than stroke when in fact having a stroke. In addition, adults under 44 years-of-age are seven times more likely to have a stroke missed than are adults over 75 years-of-age. This is especially the case for younger people with posterior circulation infarcts. Some medical centers have used hyperacute MRI in experimental studies for persons initially thought to have a low likelihood of stroke. And in some of these persons, strokes have been found which were then treated with thrombolytic medication.\n\nGiven the disease burden of strokes, prevention is an important public health concern. Primary prevention is less effective than secondary prevention (as judged by the number needed to treat to prevent one stroke per year). Recent guidelines detail the evidence for primary prevention in stroke. In those who are otherwise healthy, aspirin does not appear beneficial and thus is not recommended. In people who have had a myocardial infarction or those with a high cardiovascular risk, it provides some protection against a first stroke. In those who have previously had a stroke, treatment with medications such as aspirin, clopidogrel, and dipyridamole may be beneficial. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends against screening for carotid artery stenosis in those without symptoms.\n\nThe most important modifiable risk factors for stroke are high blood pressure and atrial fibrillation although the size of the effect is small with 833 people have to be treated for 1 year to prevent one stroke. Other modifiable risk factors include high blood cholesterol levels, diabetes mellitus, cigarette smoking (active and passive), heavy alcohol use, drug use, lack of physical activity, obesity, processed red meat consumption, and unhealthy diet. Smoking just one cigarette per day increases the risk more than 30%. Alcohol use could predispose to ischemic stroke, and intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage via multiple mechanisms (for example via hypertension, atrial fibrillation, rebound thrombocytosis and platelet aggregation and clotting disturbances). Drugs, most commonly amphetamines and cocaine, can induce stroke through damage to the blood vessels in the brain and acute hypertension. Migraine with aura doubles a person's risk for ischemic stroke. Untreated, celiac disease regardless of the presence of symptoms can be an underlying cause of stroke, both in children and adults.\n\nHigh levels of physical activity reduce the risk of stroke by about 26%. There is a lack of high quality studies looking at promotional efforts to improve lifestyle factors. Nonetheless, given the large body of circumstantial evidence, best medical management for stroke includes advice on diet, exercise, smoking and alcohol use. Medication is the most common method of stroke prevention; carotid endarterectomy can be a useful surgical method of preventing stroke.\n\nHigh blood pressure accounts for 35–50% of stroke risk. Blood pressure reduction of 10 mmHg systolic or 5 mmHg diastolic reduces the risk of stroke by ~40%. Lowering blood pressure has been conclusively shown to prevent both ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes. It is equally important in secondary prevention. Even patients older than 80 years and those with isolated systolic hypertension benefit from antihypertensive therapy. The available evidence does not show large differences in stroke prevention between antihypertensive drugs —therefore, other factors such as protection against other forms of cardiovascular disease and cost should be considered. The routine use of beta-blockers following a stroke or TIA has not been shown to result in benefits.\n\nHigh cholesterol levels have been inconsistently associated with (ischemic) stroke. Statins have been shown to reduce the risk of stroke by about 15%. Since earlier meta-analyses of other lipid-lowering drugs did not show a decreased risk, statins might exert their effect through mechanisms other than their lipid-lowering effects.\n\nDiabetes mellitus increases the risk of stroke by 2 to 3 times. While intensive blood sugar control has been shown to reduce small blood vessel complications such as kidney damage and damage to the retina of the eye it has not been shown to reduce large blood vessel complications such as stroke.\n\nOral anticoagulants such as warfarin have been the mainstay of stroke prevention for over 50 years. However, several studies have shown that aspirin and other antiplatelets are highly effective in secondary prevention after a stroke or transient ischemic attack. Low doses of aspirin (for example 75–150 mg) are as effective as high doses but have fewer side effects; the lowest effective dose remains unknown. Thienopyridines (clopidogrel, ticlopidine) might be slightly more effective than aspirin and have a decreased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding, but are more expensive. Clopidogrel has less side effects than ticlopidine. Dipyridamole can be added to aspirin therapy to provide a small additional benefit, even though headache is a common side effect. Low-dose aspirin is also effective for stroke prevention after having a myocardial infarction.\n\nThose with atrial fibrillation have a 5% a year risk of stroke, and this risk is higher in those with valvular atrial fibrillation. Depending on the stroke risk, anticoagulation with medications such as warfarin or aspirin is useful for prevention. Except in people with atrial fibrillation, oral anticoagulants are not advised for stroke prevention —any benefit is offset by bleeding risk.\n\nIn primary prevention however, antiplatelet drugs did not reduce the risk of ischemic stroke but increased the risk of major bleeding. Further studies are needed to investigate a possible protective effect of aspirin against ischemic stroke in women.\n\nCarotid endarterectomy or carotid angioplasty can be used to remove atherosclerotic narrowing of the carotid artery. There is evidence supporting this procedure in selected cases. Endarterectomy for a significant stenosis has been shown to be useful in preventing further strokes in those who have already had one. Carotid artery stenting has not been shown to be equally useful. People are selected for surgery based on age, gender, degree of stenosis, time since symptoms and the person's preferences. Surgery is most efficient when not delayed too long —the risk of recurrent stroke in a patient who has a 50% or greater stenosis is up to 20% after 5 years, but endarterectomy reduces this risk to around 5%. The number of procedures needed to cure one patient was 5 for early surgery (within two weeks after the initial stroke), but 125 if delayed longer than 12 weeks.\n\nScreening for carotid artery narrowing has not been shown to be a useful test in the general population. Studies of surgical intervention for carotid artery stenosis without symptoms have shown only a small decrease in the risk of stroke. To be beneficial, the complication rate of the surgery should be kept below 4%. Even then, for 100 surgeries, 5 patients will benefit by avoiding stroke, 3 will develop stroke despite surgery, 3 will develop stroke or die due to the surgery itself, and 89 will remain stroke-free but would also have done so without intervention.\n\nNutrition, specifically the Mediterranean-style diet, has the potential for decreasing the risk of having a stroke by more than half. It does not appear that lowering levels of homocysteine with folic acid affects the risk of stroke.\n\nA number of specific recommendations have been made for women including taking aspirin after the 11th week of pregnancy if there is a history of previous chronic high blood pressure and taking blood pressure medications during pregnancy if the blood pressure is greater than 150 mmHg systolic or greater than 100 mmHg diastolic. In those who have previously had preeclampsia other risk factors should be treated more aggressively.\n\nKeeping blood pressure below 140/90 mmHg is recommended. Anticoagulation can prevent recurrent ischemic strokes. Among people with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, anticoagulation can reduce stroke by 60% while antiplatelet agents can reduce stroke by 20%. However, a recent meta-analysis suggests harm from anticoagulation started early after an embolic stroke. Stroke prevention treatment for atrial fibrillation is determined according to the CHA2DS2–VASc score. The most widely used anticoagulant to prevent thromboembolic stroke in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation is the oral agent warfarin while a number of newer agents including dabigatran are alternatives which do not require prothrombin time monitoring.\n\nAnticoagulants, when used following stroke, should not be stopped for dental procedures.\n\nIf studies show carotid artery stenosis, and the person has a degree of residual function on the affected side, carotid endarterectomy (surgical removal of the stenosis) may decrease the risk of recurrence if performed rapidly after stroke.\n\nAspirin reduces the overall risk of recurrence by 13% with greater benefit early on. Definitive therapy within the first few hours is aimed at removing the blockage by breaking the clot down (thrombolysis), or by removing it mechanically (thrombectomy). The philosophical premise underlying the importance of rapid stroke intervention was summed up as \"Time is Brain!\" in the early 1990s. Years later, that same idea, that rapid cerebral blood flow restoration results in fewer brain cells dying, has been proved and quantified.\n\nTight blood sugar control in the first few hours does not improve outcomes and may cause harm. High blood pressure is also not typically lowered as this has not been found to be helpful. Cerebrolysin, a mix of pig brain tissue used to treat acute ischemic stroke in many Asian and European countries, does not improve outcomes and may increase the risk of severe adverse events.\n\nThrombolysis, such as with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA), in acute ischemic stroke, when given within three hours of symptom onset results in an overall benefit of 10% with respect to living without disability. It does not, however, improve chances of survival. Benefit is greater the earlier it is used. Between three and four and a half hours the effects are less clear. A 2014 review found a 5% increase in the number of people living without disability at three to six months; however, there was a 2% increased risk of death in the short term. After four and a half hours thrombolysis worsens outcomes. These benefits or lack of benefits occurred regardless of the age of the person treated. There is no reliable way to determine who will have an intracranial bleed post-treatment versus who will not.\n\nIts use is endorsed by the American Heart Association and the American Academy of Neurology as the recommended treatment for acute stroke within three hours of onset of symptoms as long as there are no other contraindications (such as abnormal lab values, high blood pressure, or recent surgery). This position for tPA is based upon the findings of two studies by one group of investigators which showed that tPA improves the chances for a good neurological outcome. When administered within the first three hours thrombolysis improves functional outcome without affecting mortality. 6.4% of people with large strokes developed substantial brain bleeding as a complication from being given tPA thus part of the reason for increased short term mortality. Additionally, the American Academy of Emergency Medicine states that objective evidence regarding the efficacy, safety, and applicability of tPA for acute ischemic stroke is insufficient to warrant its classification as standard of care. Intra-arterial fibrinolysis, where a catheter is passed up an artery into the brain and the medication is injected at the site of thrombosis, has been found to improve outcomes in people with acute ischemic stroke.\n\nSurgical removal of the blood clot causing the ischemic stroke may improve outcomes if done within 7 hours of the start of symptoms in those with an anterior circulation large artery clot. It however does not change the risk of death. Significant complications occur in about 7%. Intravenous thrombolysis is generally used in eligible people even if they are being considered for mechanical thrombectomy. Certain cases may benefit from thrombectomy up to 24 hours after the onset of symptoms.\n\nStrokes affecting large portions of the brain can cause significant brain swelling with secondary brain injury in surrounding tissue. This phenomenon is mainly encountered in strokes affecting brain tissue dependent upon the middle cerebral artery for blood supply and is also called \"malignant cerebral infarction\" because it carries a dismal prognosis. Relief of the pressure may be attempted with medication, but some require hemicraniectomy, the temporary surgical removal of the skull on one side of the head. This decreases the risk of death, although some more people survive with disability who would otherwise have died.\n\nPeople with intracerebral hemorrhage require supportive care, including blood pressure control if required. People are monitored for changes in the level of consciousness, and their blood sugar and oxygenation are kept at optimum levels. Anticoagulants and antithrombotics can make bleeding worse and are generally discontinued (and reversed if possible). A proportion may benefit from neurosurgical intervention to remove the blood and treat the underlying cause, but this depends on the location and the size of the hemorrhage as well as patient-related factors, and ongoing research is being conducted into the question as to which people with intracerebral hemorrhage may benefit.\n\nIn subarachnoid hemorrhage, early treatment for underlying cerebral aneurysms may reduce the risk of further hemorrhages. Depending on the site of the aneurysm this may be by surgery that involves opening the skull or endovascularly (through the blood vessels).\n\nIdeally, people who have had a stroke are admitted to a \"stroke unit\", a ward or dedicated area in a hospital staffed by nurses and therapists with experience in stroke treatment. It has been shown that people admitted to a stroke unit have a higher chance of surviving than those admitted elsewhere in hospital, even if they are being cared for by doctors without experience in stroke.\n\nStroke rehabilitation is the process by which those with disabling strokes undergo treatment to help them return to normal life as much as possible by regaining and relearning the skills of everyday living. It also aims to help the survivor understand and adapt to difficulties, prevent secondary complications and educate family members to play a supporting role.\n\nA rehabilitation team is usually multidisciplinary as it involves staff with different skills working together to help the patient. These include physicians trained in rehabilitation medicine, clinical pharmacists, nursing staff, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, speech and language therapists, and orthotists. Some teams may also include psychologists and social workers, since at least one-third of affected people manifests post stroke depression. Validated instruments such as the Barthel scale may be used to assess the likelihood of a stroke patient being able to manage at home with or without support subsequent to discharge from a hospital.\n\nGood nursing care is fundamental in maintaining skin care, feeding, hydration, positioning, and monitoring vital signs such as temperature, pulse, and blood pressure. Stroke rehabilitation begins almost immediately.\n\nFor most people with stroke, physical therapy (PT), occupational therapy (OT) and speech-language pathology (SLP) are the cornerstones of the rehabilitation process. Often, assistive technology such as wheelchairs, walkers and canes may be beneficial. Many mobility problems can be improved by the use of ankle foot orthoses. PT and OT have overlapping areas of expertise; however, PT focuses on joint range of motion and strength by performing exercises and relearning functional tasks such as bed mobility, transferring, walking and other gross motor functions. Physiotherapists can also work with patients to improve awareness and use of the hemiplegic side. Rehabilitation involves working on the ability to produce strong movements or the ability to perform tasks using normal patterns. Emphasis is often concentrated on functional tasks and patient’s goals. One example physiotherapists employ to promote motor learning involves constraint-induced movement therapy. Through continuous practice the patient relearns to use and adapt the hemiplegic limb during functional activities to create lasting permanent changes. OT is involved in training to help relearn everyday activities known as the activities of daily living (ADLs) such as eating, drinking, dressing, bathing, cooking, reading and writing, and toileting. Speech and language therapy is appropriate for people with the speech production disorders: dysarthria and apraxia of speech, aphasia, cognitive-communication impairments, and problems with swallowing.\n\nPatients may have particular problems, such as dysphagia, which can cause swallowed material to pass into the lungs and cause aspiration pneumonia. The condition may improve with time, but in the interim, a nasogastric tube may be inserted, enabling liquid food to be given directly into the stomach. If swallowing is still deemed unsafe, then a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube is passed and this can remain indefinitely.\n\nTreatment of spasticity related to stroke often involves early mobilizations, commonly performed by a physiotherapist, combined with elongation of spastic muscles and sustained stretching through various positionings. Gaining initial improvement in range of motion is often achieved through rhythmic rotational patterns associated with the affected limb. After full range has been achieved by the therapist, the limb should be positioned in the lengthened positions to prevent against further contractures, skin breakdown, and disuse of the limb with the use of splints or other tools to stabilize the joint. Cold in the form of ice wraps or ice packs have been proven to briefly reduce spasticity by temporarily dampening neural firing rates. Electrical stimulation to the antagonist muscles or vibrations has also been used with some success.\n\nStroke rehabilitation should be started as quickly as possible and can last anywhere from a few days to over a year. Most return of function is seen in the first few months, and then improvement falls off with the \"window\" considered officially by U.S. state rehabilitation units and others to be closed after six months, with little chance of further improvement. However, patients have been known to continue to improve for years, regaining and strengthening abilities like writing, walking, running, and talking. Daily rehabilitation exercises should continue to be part of the stroke patient's routine. Complete recovery is unusual but not impossible and most patients will improve to some extent: proper diet and exercise are known to help the brain to recover.\n\nSome current and future therapy methods include the use of virtual reality and video games for rehabilitation. These forms of rehabilitation offer potential for motivating patients to perform specific therapy tasks that many other forms do not. Many clinics and hospitals are adopting the use of these off-the-shelf devices for exercise, social interaction, and rehabilitation because they are affordable, accessible and can be used within the clinic and home. Mirror therapy is associated with improved motor function of the upper extremity in patients with stroke. Other non-invasive rehabilitation methods used to augment physical therapy of motor function in stroke patients include transcranial magnetic stimulation and transcranial direct-current stimulation. and robotic therapies.\n\nA stroke can also reduce people's general fitness. Reduced fitness can reduce capacity for rehabilitation as well as general health. Physical exercises as part of a rehabilitation program following a stroke appear safe. Cardiorespiratory fitness training that involves walking in rehabilitation can improve speed, tolerance and independence during walking, and may improve balance. There are inadequate long-term data about the effects of exercise and training on death, dependence and disability after a stroke. The future areas of research may concentrate on the optimal exercise prescription and long term health benefits of exercise. The effect of physical training on cognition also may be studied further.\n\nThe ability to walk independently in their community, indoors or outdoors, is important following stroke. Although no negative effects have been reported, it is unclear if outcomes can improve with these walking programs when compared to usual treatment.\n\nA stroke can affect the ability to live independently and with quality. Self-management programs are a special training that educates stroke survivors about stroke and its consequences, helps them acquire skills to cope with their challenges, and helps them set and meet their own goals during their recovery process. These programs are tailored to the target audience, and led by someone trained and expert in stroke and its consequences (most commonly professionals, but also stroke survivors and peers). A 2016 review reported that these programs improve the quality of life after stroke, without negative effects. People with stroke felt more empowered, happy and satisfied with life after participating in this training.\n\nDisability affects 75% of stroke survivors enough to decrease their employability.\nStroke can affect people physically, mentally, emotionally, or a combination of the three. The results of stroke vary widely depending on size and location of the lesion. Dysfunctions correspond to areas in the brain that have been damaged.\n\nSome of the physical disabilities that can result from stroke include muscle weakness, numbness, pressure sores, pneumonia, incontinence, apraxia (inability to perform learned movements), difficulties carrying out daily activities, appetite loss, speech loss, vision loss and pain. If the stroke is severe enough, or in a certain location such as parts of the brainstem, coma or death can result.\n\nEmotional problems following a stroke can be due to direct damage to emotional centers in the brain or from frustration and difficulty adapting to new limitations. Post-stroke emotional difficulties include anxiety, panic attacks, flat affect (failure to express emotions), mania, apathy and psychosis. Other difficulties may include a decreased ability to communicate emotions through facial expression, body language and voice.\n\nDisruption in self-identity, relationships with others, and emotional well-being can lead to social consequences after stroke due to the lack of ability to communicate. Many people who experience communication impairments after a stroke find it more difficult to cope with the social issues rather than physical impairments. Broader aspects of care must address the emotional impact speech impairment has on those who experience difficulties with speech after a stroke. Those who experience a stroke are at risk of paralysis which could result in a self disturbed body image which may also lead to other social issues.\n\n30 to 50% of stroke survivors suffer post-stroke depression, which is characterized by lethargy, irritability, sleep disturbances, lowered self-esteem and withdrawal.\nDepression can reduce motivation and worsen outcome, but can be treated with social and family support, psychotherapy and, in severe cases, antidepressants. Psychotherapy sessions may have a small effect on improving mood and preventing depression after a stroke, however psychotherapy does not appear to be effective at treating depression after a stroke. Antidepressant medications may be useful for treating depression after a stroke.\n\nEmotional lability, another consequence of stroke, causes the person to switch quickly between emotional highs and lows and to express emotions inappropriately, for instance with an excess of laughing or crying with little or no provocation. While these expressions of emotion usually correspond to the person's actual emotions, a more severe form of emotional lability causes the affected person to laugh and cry pathologically, without regard to context or emotion. Some people show the opposite of what they feel, for example crying when they are happy. Emotional lability occurs in about 20% of those who have had a stroke. Those with a right hemisphere stroke are more likely to have an empathy problems which can make communication harder.\n\nCognitive deficits resulting from stroke include perceptual disorders, aphasia, dementia, and problems with attention and memory. A stroke sufferer may be unaware of his or her own disabilities, a condition called anosognosia. In a condition called hemispatial neglect, the affected person is unable to attend to anything on the side of space opposite to the damaged hemisphere.\n\nCognitive and psychological outcome after a stroke can be affected by the age at which the stroke happened, pre-stroke baseline intellectual functioning, psychiatric history and whether there is pre-existing brain pathology.\n\nUp to 10% of people following a stroke develop seizures, most commonly in the week subsequent to the event; the severity of the stroke increases the likelihood of a seizure.\n\nStroke was the second most frequent cause of death worldwide in 2011, accounting for 6.2 million deaths (~11% of the total). Approximately 17 million people had a stroke in 2010 and 33 million people have previously had a stroke and were still alive. Between 1990 and 2010 the number of strokes decreased by approximately 10% in the developed world and increased by 10% in the developing world. Overall, two-thirds of strokes occurred in those over 65 years old. South Asians are at particularly high risk of stroke, accounting for 40% of global stroke deaths.\n\nIt is ranked after heart disease and before cancer. In the United States stroke is a leading cause of disability, and recently declined from the third leading to the fourth leading cause of death. Geographic disparities in stroke incidence have been observed, including the existence of a \"stroke belt\" in the southeastern United States, but causes of these disparities have not been explained.\n\nThe risk of stroke increases exponentially from 30 years of age, and the cause varies by age. Advanced age is one of the most significant stroke risk factors. 95% of strokes occur in people age 45 and older, and two-thirds of strokes occur in those over the age of 65. A person's risk of dying if he or she does have a stroke also increases with age. However, stroke can occur at any age, including in childhood.\n\nFamily members may have a genetic tendency for stroke or share a lifestyle that contributes to stroke. Higher levels of Von Willebrand factor are more common amongst people who have had ischemic stroke for the first time. The results of this study found that the only significant genetic factor was the person's blood type. Having had a stroke in the past greatly increases one's risk of future strokes.\n\nMen are 25% more likely to suffer strokes than women, yet 60% of deaths from stroke occur in women. Since women live longer, they are older on average when they have their strokes and thus more often killed. Some risk factors for stroke apply only to women. Primary among these are pregnancy, childbirth, menopause, and the treatment thereof (HRT).\n\nEpisodes of stroke and familial stroke have been reported from the 2nd millennium BC onward in ancient Mesopotamia and Persia. Hippocrates (460 to 370 BC) was first to describe the phenomenon of sudden paralysis that is often associated with ischemia. Apoplexy, from the Greek word meaning \"struck down with violence\", first appeared in Hippocratic writings to describe this phenomenon.\nThe word \"stroke\" was used as a synonym for apoplectic seizure as early as 1599, and is a fairly literal translation of the Greek term.\n\nIn 1658, in his \"Apoplexia\", Johann Jacob Wepfer (1620–1695) identified the cause of hemorrhagic stroke when he suggested that people who had died of apoplexy had bleeding in their brains.\nWepfer also identified the main arteries supplying the brain, the vertebral and carotid arteries, and identified the cause of a type of ischemic stroke known as a cerebral infarction when he suggested that apoplexy might be caused by a blockage to those vessels. Rudolf Virchow first described the mechanism of thromboembolism as a major factor.\n\nThe term \"cerebrovascular accident\" was introduced in 1927, reflecting a \"growing awareness and acceptance of vascular theories and (...) recognition of the consequences of a sudden disruption in the vascular supply of the brain\". Its use is now discouraged by a number of neurology textbooks, reasoning that the connotation of fortuitousness carried by the word \"accident\" insufficiently highlights the modifiability of the underlying risk factors. \"Cerebrovascular insult\" may be used interchangeably.\n\nThe term \"brain attack\" was introduced for use to underline the acute nature of stroke according to the American Stroke Association, who since 1990 have used the term, and is used colloquially to refer to both ischemic as well as hemorrhagic stroke.\n\nAngioplasty and stenting have begun to be looked at as possible viable options in treatment of acute ischemic stroke. Intra-cranial stenting in symptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis, the rate of technical success (reduction to stenosis of <50%) ranged from 90-98%, and the rate of major peri-procedural complications ranged from 4-10%. The rates of restenosis and stroke following the treatment were also favorable. This data suggests that a randomized controlled trial is needed to more completely evaluate the possible therapeutic advantage of this preventative measure.\n\nNeuroprotective agents including antioxidants which combat reactive oxygen species, or inhibit programmed cell death, or inhibit excitatory neurotransmitters have been shown experimentally to reduce tissue injury caused by ischemia. Until recently, human clinical trials with neuroprotective agents have failed, with the probable exception of deep barbiturate-induced coma. Disufenton sodium, the disulfonyl derivative of the radical-scavenging phenylbutylnitrone, was reported to be neuroprotective. This agent is thought to work at the level of the blood vessel lining. However the favourable results evidenced from one large-scale trial were not reproduced in a second trial. So that the benefit of disufenton sodium is questionable.\n\nHyperbaric oxygen therapy has been studied as a possible protective measure, but as of 2014, while the benefits of this have not been ruled out, further research is said to be needed. Modulating microglial activation and polarization might mitigate hemorrhagic stroke injury and improve brain repair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "238346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238346", "title": "Tarring and feathering", "text": "Tarring and feathering\n\nTarring and feathering is a form of public torture and humiliation used to enforce unofficial justice or revenge. It was used in feudal Europe and its colonies in the early modern period, as well as the early American frontier, mostly as a type of mob vengeance. Awareness of tarring and feathering in popular culture remains.\n\nThe victim would be stripped naked, or stripped to the waist. Hot tar was then either poured or painted onto the person while they were immobilized. Then the victim either had feathers thrown on them or was rolled around on a pile of feathers so that they stuck to the tar.\n\nThe image of the tarred-and-feathered outlaw remains a metaphor for severe public criticism.\n\nThe earliest mention of the punishment appears in orders that Richard I of England issued to his navy on starting for the Holy Land in 1189. \"Concerning the lawes and ordinances appointed by King Richard for his navie the forme thereof was this ... item, a thiefe or felon that hath stolen, being lawfully convicted, shal have his head shorne, and boyling pitch poured upon his head, and feathers or downe strawed upon the same whereby he may be knowen, and so at the first landing-place they shall come to, there to be cast up\" (transcript of original statute in \"Hakluyt's Voyages\", ii. 21).\n\nA later instance of this penalty appears in \"Notes and Queries\" (series 4, vol. v), which quotes James Howell writing in Madrid in 1623 of the \"boisterous Bishop of Halberstadt ... having taken a place where there were two monasteries of nuns and friars, he caused divers feather beds to be ripped, and all the feathers thrown into a great hall, whither the nuns and friars were thrust naked with their bodies oiled and pitched and to tumble among these feathers, which makes them here (Madrid) presage him an ill-death.\" (The Bishop was apparently Christian the Younger of Brunswick.)\n\nIn 1696, a London bailiff attempted to serve process on a debtor who had taken refuge within the precincts of the Savoy. The bailiff was tarred and feathered and taken in a wheelbarrow to the Strand, where he was tied to a maypole that stood by what is now Somerset House as an improvised pillory.\n\nIn 1766, Captain William Smith was tarred, feathered, and dumped into the harbor of Norfolk, Virginia by a mob that included the town's mayor. A vessel picked him out of the water just as his strength was giving out. He survived and was later quoted as saying that they \"dawbed my body and face all over with tar and afterwards threw feathers on me.\" Smith was suspected of informing on smugglers to the British customs agents, as was the case with most other tar-and-feathers victims in the following decade.\n\nThe practice appeared in Salem, Massachusetts in 1767, when mobs attacked low-level employees of the customs service with tar and feathers. In October 1769, a mob in Boston attacked a customs service sailor the same way, and a few similar attacks followed through 1774. The tarring and feathering of customs worker John Malcolm received particular attention in 1774. Such acts associated the punishment with the Patriot side of the American Revolution. An exception occurred in March 1775 when a British regiment inflicted the same treatment on Thomas Ditson, a Billerica, Massachusetts man who attempted to buy a musket from one of the regiment's soldiers. There is no known case of a person dying from being tarred and feathered in this period. During the Whiskey Rebellion, local farmers inflicted the punishment on federal tax agents.\n\nBeginning on September 11, 1791, western Pennsylvania farmers rebelled against the federal government's taxation on western Pennsylvania whiskey distillers during the Whiskey Rebellion. Their first victim was reportedly a recently appointed tax collector named Robert Johnson. He was tarred and feathered by a disguised gang in Washington County. Other officials who attempted to serve court warrants on Johnson's attackers were whipped, tarred, and feathered. Because of these and other violent attacks, the tax went uncollected in 1791 and early 1792. The attackers modeled their actions on the protests of the American Revolution.\n\nJoseph Smith, founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, was dragged from his home during the night of March 24, 1832 by a group of men who stripped and beat him before tarring and feathering him. His wife and infant child were knocked from their bed by the attackers and were forced from the home and threatened. (The infant died several days later from exposure.) Smith was left for dead, but limped back to the home of friends. They spent much of the night scraping the tar from his body, leaving his skin raw and bloody. The following day, Smith spoke at a church devotional meeting and was reported to have been covered with raw wounds and still weak from the attack.\n\nIn 1851, a Know-Nothing mob in Ellsworth, Maine tarred and feathered Swiss-born Jesuit priest Father John Bapst in the midst of a local controversy over religious education in grammar schools. Bapst fled Ellsworth to settle in nearby Bangor, Maine, where there was a large Irish-Catholic community, and a local high school there is named for him.\nTarring and feathering was not restricted to men. The November 27, 1906 Ada, Oklahoma \"Evening News\" reports that a vigilance committee consisting of four young married women from East Sandy, Pennsylvania corrected the alleged evil conduct of their neighbor Mrs. Hattie Lowry in whitecap style. One of the women was a sister-in-law of the victim. The women appeared at Mrs. Lowry's home in open day and announced that she had not heeded the spokeswoman and leader. Two women held Mrs. Lowry to the floor while the other two smeared her face with stove polish until it was completely covered. They then poured thick molasses upon her head and emptied the contents of a feather pillow over the molasses. The women then marched the victim to a railroad camp, tied by the wrists, where two hundred workmen stopped work to watch the spectacle. After parading Mrs. Lowry through the camp, the women tied her to a large box where she remained until a man released her. Three of the women involved were arrested, pleaded guilty and each paid a $10.00 fine.\n\nA group of black-robed Knights of Liberty (a faction of the KKK) tarred and feathered seventeen members of the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) in Oklahoma in 1917, during an incident known as the Tulsa Outrage.\n\nIn the 1920s, vigilantes were opposed to IWW organizers at California's harbor of San Pedro. They kidnapped at least one organizer, subjected him to tarring and feathering, and left him in a remote location.\n\nThe Wednesday, May 28, 1930 edition of the \"Miami Daily News-Record\" contains on its front page the arrests of five brothers (Isaac, Newton, Henry, Gordon and Charles Starns) from Louisiana accused of tarring and feathering Dr. S. L. Newsome, who was a prominent dentist. This was in retaliation for the dentist having an affair with one of the brother's wives.\n\nThere were several examples of tarring and feathering of African-Americans in the lead-up to World War I in Vicksburg, Mississippi. According to William Harris, this was a relatively rare form of mob punishment to Republican African-Americans in the post-bellum U.S. South, as its goal was typically pain and humiliation rather than death.\n\nDuring World War I, anti-German sentiment was widespread and many German-Americans were attacked. For example, in August 1918 a German-American farmer, John Meints of Luverne, Minnesota (pictured above), was captured by a group of men, taken to the nearby South Dakota border and tarred and feathered – for allegedly not supporting war bonds. Meints sued his assailants and lost, but on appeal to a federal court he won, and in 1922 settled out of court for $6,000. In March 1922, a German-born Catholic priest in Slaton, Texas, Joseph M. Keller, who had been harassed by local residents during World War I due to his ethnicity, was accused of breaking the seal of confession and tarred and feathered. Thereafter Keller served a Catholic parish in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.\n\nSimilar tactics were also used by the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) during the early years of The Troubles. Many of the victims were women accused of sexual relationships with policemen or British soldiers. \nIn August 2007, loyalist groups in Northern Ireland were linked to the tarring and feathering of an individual accused of drug-dealing.\n\n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "30809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30809", "title": "The Thing (1982 film)", "text": "The Thing (1982 film)\n\nThe Thing is a 1982 American science fiction horror film directed by John Carpenter and written by Bill Lancaster. Based on the 1938 John W. Campbell Jr. novella \"Who Goes There?\", it tells the story of a group of American researchers in Antarctica who encounter the eponymous \"Thing\", a parasitic extraterrestrial life-form that assimilates and then imitates other organisms. The group is overcome by paranoia and conflict as they learn that they can no longer trust each other and that any one of them could be the Thing. The film stars Kurt Russell as the team's helicopter pilot, R.J. MacReady, and features A. Wilford Brimley, T. K. Carter, David Clennon, Keith David, Richard Dysart, Charles Hallahan, Peter Maloney, Richard Masur, Donald Moffat, Joel Polis, and Thomas Waites in supporting roles.\n\nProduction began in the mid-1970s as a faithful adaptation of the novella, following 1951's popular \"The Thing from Another World\". \"The Thing\" went through several directors and writers, each with different ideas on how to approach the story. Filming lasted roughly 12 weeks, beginning in August 1981, and took place on refrigerated sets in Los Angeles as well as in Juneau, Alaska, and Stewart, British Columbia. Of the film's $15 million budget, $1.5 million was spent on Rob Bottin's creature effects, a mixture of chemicals, food products, rubber, and mechanical parts turned by his large team into an alien capable of taking on any form.\n\n\"The Thing\" was released in 1982 to very negative reviews. It was described as \"instant junk\", \"a wretched excess\", and proposed as the most hated film of all time. Reviews both praised the special effects achievements and criticized their visual repulsiveness, while others focused on poor characterization. The film earned $19.6 million during its theatrical run. Many reasons have been cited for its failure to impress audiences: competition from films such as \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\", which offered an optimistic take on alien visitation; a summer that had been filled with successful science fiction and fantasy films; and an audience, living through a recession, diametrically opposed to \"The Thing\"s nihilistic tone.\n\nThe film found an audience when released on home video and television. In the years since, it has been reappraised as one of the best science fiction or horror films ever made, and has gained a cult following. Filmmakers have noted its influence on their work, and it has been referred to in other media such as television and video games. \"The Thing\" has spawned a variety of merchandise, including a 1982 novelization, haunted houses, board games, and sequels in comic books, a video game of the same name, and a 2011 prequel film of the same name.\n\nIn Antarctica, a Norwegian helicopter pursues a sled dog to an American research station. The Americans witness the Norwegian passenger accidentally blow up the helicopter and himself. The Norwegian pilot fires a rifle and shouts at the Americans, but they cannot understand him and he is shot dead in self-defense by station commander Garry. The American helicopter pilot, R.J. MacReady, and Dr. Copper leave to investigate the Norwegian base. Among the charred ruins and frozen corpses, they find the burned remains of a malformed humanoid which they recover to the American station. Their biologist, Blair, performs autopsies on the remains and finds a normal set of human organs.\n\nClark kennels the sled dog, and it soon metamorphoses and absorbs the station dogs. This disturbance alerts the team and Childs uses a flamethrower to incinerate the creature. Blair autopsies the new creature and learns that it can perfectly imitate other organisms. Recovered Norwegian data leads the Americans to a large excavation site containing a partially buried alien spacecraft, and a smaller, human-sized dig site. Norris estimates that the alien ship has been buried for at least 100,000 years. Blair grows paranoid that the creature could assimilate all life on Earth in a matter of years. The station implements controls to reduce the risk of assimilation.\n\nThe \"dead\", malformed humanoid creature assimilates an isolated Bennings, but Windows interrupts the process and MacReady burns the Bennings-Thing. Blair sabotages all the vehicles, kills the remaining sled dogs, and destroys the radio to prevent escape. The team imprison him in a tool shed. Copper suggests a test to compare each member's blood against uncontaminated blood held in storage, but after learning that the blood stores have been destroyed, the men lose faith in Garry, and MacReady takes command.\n\nMacReady, Windows and Nauls find Fuchs's burnt corpse and surmise he committed suicide to avoid assimilation. Windows returns to base while MacReady and Nauls investigate MacReady's shack. On their return, Nauls abandons MacReady in a snowstorm, believing he has been assimilated after finding his torn clothes in the shack. The team debate whether to allow MacReady inside, but he breaks in and holds the group at bay with dynamite. During the encounter, Norris appears to suffer a heart attack.\n\nAs Copper attempts to defibrillate Norris, his chest transforms into a large mouth and bites off Copper's arms. MacReady incinerates the Norris-Thing, but its head separates from the body and attempts to escape before also being burnt. MacReady is forced to kill Clark in self-defense when the latter lunges at him from behind with a knife. He hypothesizes that the Norris-Thing's head demonstrated that every part of the Thing is an individual life form with its own survival instinct. He sequentially tests blood samples with a heated piece of wire. Everyone passes the test except Palmer, whose blood jumps from the heat. Palmer transforms and infects Windows, forcing MacReady to burn them both.\n\nChilds is left on guard while the others go to test Blair. They find that Blair has escaped, and has been using vehicle components to assemble a small spacecraft. On their return, Childs is missing and the power generator is destroyed. MacReady speculates that the Thing intends to return to hibernation until a rescue team arrives. MacReady, Garry, and Nauls decide to detonate the entire station to destroy the Thing. As they set explosives, Blair kills Garry and Nauls disappears. Blair transforms into an enormous creature and destroys the detonator. MacReady triggers the explosives using a stick of dynamite, destroying the base.\n\nMacReady sits nearby as the station burns. Childs returns, saying he became lost in the storm while pursuing Blair. Exhausted and slowly freezing to death, they acknowledge the futility of their distrust and MacReady passes Childs a bottle.\n\nDevelopment of the film began in the mid-1970s when producers David Foster and Lawrence Turman suggested an adaptation of the 1938 John W. Campbell novella \"Who Goes There?\" to Universal Pictures. It had been loosely adapted once before in Howard Hawks's and Christian Nyby's 1951 film \"The Thing from Another World\", but Foster and Turman wanted to develop a project that stuck more closely to the source material. Screenwriters Hal Barwood and Matthew Robbins held the rights to make an adaptation, but passed on the opportunity to make a new film, so Universal obtained the rights from them. In 1976, Wilbur Stark had purchased the remake rights to 23 RKO Pictures films, including \"The Thing from Another World\", from three Wall Street financiers who did not know what to do with them, in exchange for a return when the films were produced. Universal in turn acquired the rights to remake the film from Stark, resulting in him being given an executive producer credit on all print advertisements, posters, television commercials, and studio press material.\n\nJohn Carpenter was first approached about the project in 1976 by co-producer and friend Stuart Cohen, but Carpenter was mainly an independent film director, so Universal chose \"The Texas Chain Saw Massacre\" (1974) director Tobe Hooper as they already had him under contract. The producers were ultimately unhappy with Hooper and his writing partner Kim Henkel's concept. After several more failed pitches by different writers, and attempts to bring on other directors, such as John Landis, the project was put on hold. Even so, the success of Ridley Scott's 1979 science fiction horror film \"Alien\" helped revitalize the project, at which point Carpenter became loosely attached following his success with his influential slasher film \"Halloween\" (1978).\n\nCarpenter was reluctant to join the project as he thought Hawks's adaptation would be difficult to surpass, although he considered the film's monster to be unnotable. Cohen suggested that he read the original novella. Carpenter found the \"creepiness\" of the imitations conducted by the creature, and the questions it raised, interesting. Carpenter drew parallels between the novella and Agatha Christie's mystery novel \"And Then There Were None\" (1939), and noted that the story of \"Who Goes There?\" was \"timely\" for him, meaning he could make it \"true to [his] day\" as Hawks had in his time. Carpenter, a fan of Hawks's adaptation, paid homage to it in \"Halloween\", and he watched \"The Thing from Another World\" several times for inspiration before filming began. Carpenter and cinematographer Dean Cundey first worked together on \"Halloween\", and \"The Thing\" was their first big-budget project for a major film studio.\n\nAfter securing the writer and crew, the film was stalled again when Carpenter nearly quit, believing that a passion project of his, \"El Diablo\" (1990), was on the verge of being made by EMI Films. The producers discussed various replacements including Walter Hill, Sam Peckinpah and Michael Ritchie, but the development of \"El Diablo\" was not as imminent as Carpenter believed, and he remained with \"The Thing\".\n\nUniversal initially set a budget of $10 million, with a modest $200,000 for \"creature effects,\" which at the time was more than the studio had ever allocated to a monster film. Filming was scheduled to be completed within 98 days. Universal's production studios estimated that it would require at least $17 million before marketing and other costs, as the plan involved more set construction, including external sets and a large set piece for the original scripted death of Bennings, which was estimated to cost $1.5 million alone. As storyboarding and designs were finalized, the crew estimated they would need at least $750,000 for creature effects, a figure Universal executives agreed to after seeing the number of workers employed under Rob Bottin, the special make-up effects designer. Associate producer Larry Franco was responsible for making the budget work for the film; he cut the filming schedule by a third, eliminated the exterior sets for on-site shooting, and removed Bennings's more extravagant death scene. Cohen suggested reusing the destroyed American camp as the ruined Norwegian camp, saving a further $250,000. When filming began in August, \"The Thing\" had a budget of $11.4 million, and indirect costs brought it to $14 million. The effects budget eventually ran over by $1.5 million, forcing the elimination of some scenes, including Nauls's confrontation of a creature dubbed the \"box Thing\". By the end of production, Carpenter had to make a personal appeal to executive Ned Tanen for $100,000 to complete a simplified version of the Blair-Thing. The final cost was $12.4 million, and overhead costs brought it to $15 million.\n\nSeveral writers developed drafts for \"The Thing\" before Carpenter became involved, including \"Logan's Run\" (1967) writer William F. Nolan, novelist David Wiltse, and Hooper and Henkel, whose draft was set at least partially underwater, and which Cohen described as a \"Moby-Dick\"-like story in which \"The Captain\" did battle with a large, non-shapeshifting creature. As Carpenter said in a 2014 interview, \"they were just trying to make it work\". The writers left before Carpenter joined the project. He said the scripts were \"awful,\" as they changed the story into something it was not, and ignored the chameleon-like aspect of the Thing. Carpenter did not want to write the project himself, after recently completing work on \"Escape from New York\" (1981), and having struggled to complete a screenplay for \"The Philadelphia Experiment\" (1984). He was wary of taking on writing duties, preferring to let someone else do it. Once Carpenter was confirmed as the director, several writers were asked to script \"The Thing\", including Richard Matheson, Nigel Kneale, and Deric Washburn.\n\nBill Lancaster initially met with Turman, Foster and Cohen in 1977, but he was given the impression that they wanted to closely replicate \"The Thing from Another World\", and he did not want to remake the film. In August 1979, Lancaster was contacted again. By this time he had read the original \"Who Goes There?\" novella, and Carpenter had become involved in the project. Lancaster was hired to write the script after describing his vision for the film, and his intention to stick closely to the original story, to Carpenter, who was a fan of Lancaster's work on \"The Bad News Bears\" (1976). Lancaster conceived several key scenes in the film, including the Norris-Thing biting Dr. Copper, and the use of blood tests to identify the Thing, which Carpenter cited as the reason he wanted to work on the film. Lancaster said he found some difficulty in translating \"Who Goes There?\" to film, as it features very little action. He also made some significant changes to the story, such as reducing the number of characters from 37 to 12. Lancaster said that 37 was excessive and would be difficult for audiences to follow, leaving little screen time for characterization. He also opted to alter the story's structure, choosing to open his in the middle of the action, instead of using a flashback as in the novella. Several characters were modernized for contemporary audiences; MacReady, originally a meteorologist, became a tough loner described in the script as \"35. Helicopter pilot. Likes chess. Hates the cold. The pay is good.\" Lancaster aimed to create an ensemble piece where one person emerged as the hero, instead of having a Doc Savage-type hero from the start.\n\nLancaster wrote approximately 30 to 40 pages, but eventually struggled writing the film's second act and it took him several months to complete the script. After it was finished, Lancaster and Carpenter spent a weekend in Northern California refining the script, each having different takes on how a character should sound, and comparing their ideas for scenes. Lancaster's script opted to keep the creature largely concealed throughout the film, and it was Bottin who convinced Carpenter to make it more visible to have a greater impact on the audience. Lancaster's original ending had both MacReady and Childs turn into the Thing. In the spring, the characters are rescued by helicopter, greeting their saviors with \"Hey, which way to a hot meal?\" Carpenter thought this ending was too shallow. In total, Lancaster completed four drafts of the screenplay. The novella concludes with the humans clearly victorious, but concerned that birds they see flying toward the mainland may have been infected by the Thing. Carpenter opted to end the film with the survivors slowly freezing to death to save humanity from infection, believing this to be the ultimate heroic act. Lancaster wrote this ending, which eschews a \"The Twilight Zone\"-style twist or the destruction of the monster, as he wanted to instead have an ambiguous moment between the pair, of trust and mistrust, fear and relief.\n\nKurt Russell was involved in the production before being cast, helping Carpenter develop his ideas. Russell was the last actor to be cast, in June 1981, by which point second unit filming was starting in Juneau, Alaska. Carpenter had worked with Russell twice before, but wanted to keep his options open. Discussions with the studio involved using actors Christopher Walken, Jeff Bridges, or Nick Nolte, who were either unavailable or declined, and Sam Shepard, who showed interest but was never pursued. Tom Atkins and Jack Thompson were strong early and late contenders for the role of MacReady, but the decision was made to go with Russell. In part, Carpenter cited the practicality of choosing someone he had found reliable before, and who would not balk at the difficult filming conditions. It took Russell about a year to grow his hair and beard out for the role. At various points, the producers met with Brian Dennehy, Kris Kristofferson, John Heard, Ed Harris, Tom Berenger, Jack Thompson, Scott Glenn, Fred Ward, Peter Coyote, Tom Atkins, and Tim McIntyre. Some passed on the idea of starring in a monster film, while Dennehy became the choice to play Copper. Each actor was to be paid $50,000, but after the more-established Russell was cast, his salary increased to $400,000.\n\nGeoffrey Holder, Carl Weathers, and Bernie Casey were considered for the role of Childs, and Carpenter also looked at Isaac Hayes, having worked with him on \"Escape from New York\". Ernie Hudson was the front-runner and was almost cast until they met with Keith David. \"The Thing\" was David's first film, and coming from a theater background, he had to learn on set how to hold himself back and not show every emotion his character was feeling, with guidance from Richard Masur and Donald Moffat in particular. Masur and David discussed their characters in rehearsals and decided that they would not like each other. For Blair, the team chose the then-unknown Wilford Brimley, as they wanted an everyman whose absence would not be questioned by the audience until the appropriate time. The intent with the character was to have him become infected early on off-screen, so that his status would be unknown to the audience, concealing his intentions. Carpenter wanted to cast Donald Pleasence, but it was decided that he was too recognizable to accommodate the role. T. K. Carter was cast as Nauls, but comedian Franklyn Ajaye also came in to read for the role. Instead, he delivered a lengthy speech about the character being a stereotype, after which the meeting ended.\nBottin lobbied hard to play Palmer, but it was deemed impossible for him to do so alongside his existing duties. As the character has some comedic moments, Universal brought in comedians Jay Leno, Garry Shandling, and Charles Fleischer, among others, but opted to go with actor David Clennon, who was better suited to play the dramatic elements. Clennon had read for the Bennings character, but he preferred the option of playing Palmer's \"blue-collar stoner\" to a \"white collar science man\". Powers Boothe, Lee Van Cleef, Jerry Orbach, and Kevin Conway were considered for the role of Garry, and Richard Mulligan was also considered when the production experimented with the idea of making the character closer to MacReady in age. Masur also read for Garry, but he asked to play Clark instead, as he liked the character's dialogue and was also a fan of dogs. Masur worked daily with the wolfdog Jed and his handler, Clint Rowe, during rehearsals, as Rowe was familiarizing Jed with the sounds and smells of people. This helped Masur's and Jed's performance on-screen, as the dog would stand next to him without looking for its handler. Masur described his character as one uninterested in people, but who loves working with dogs. He went to a survivalist store and bought a flip knife for his character, and used it in a confrontation with David's character. Masur turned down a role in \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" to play Clark. William Daniels and Dennehy were both interested in playing Dr. Copper, and it was a last-second decision by Carpenter to go with Richard Dysart.\n\nIn early drafts, Windows was called Sanchez, and later Sanders. The name Windows came when the actor for the role, Thomas Waites, was in a costume fitting and tried on a large pair of dark glasses, which the character wears in the film. Norbert Weisser portrays one of the Norwegians, and Jed appears uncredited as the Dog-Thing. The only female presence in the film is the voice of MacReady's chess computer, voiced by Carpenter's then-wife Adrienne Barbeau. Russell described the all-male story as interesting, since the men had no one to posture for without women. Foster, Franco, and Lancaster, along with other members of the crew, make a cameo appearance in a recovered photograph of the Norwegian team. Camera operator Ray Stella stood in for the shots where needles were used to take blood, telling Carpenter that he could do it all day. Franco also played the Norwegian wielding a rifle and hanging out of the helicopter during the opening sequence. Anita Dann served as casting director.\n\n\"The Thing\" was storyboarded extensively by Mike Ploog and Mentor Huebner before filming began. Their work was so detailed that many of the film's shots replicate the image layout completely. Cundey pushed for the use of anamorphic format aspect ratio, believing that it allowed for placing several actors in an environment, and making use of the scenic vistas available, while still creating a sense of confinement within the image. It also enabled the use of negative space around the actors to imply something may be lurking just off-screen.\nPrincipal photography began on August 24, 1981, in Juneau, Alaska. Filming lasted approximately 12 weeks. Carpenter insisted on two weeks of rehearsals before filming as he wanted to see how scenes would play out. This was unusual at the time because of the expense involved. Filming then moved to the Universal lot, where the outside heat was over . The internal sets were climate-controlled to to facilitate their work. The team considered building the sets inside an existing refrigerated structure, but were unable to find one large enough. Instead they collected as many portable air conditioners as they could, closed off the stage, and used humidifiers and misters to add moisture to the air. After watching a roughly assembled cut of filming to date, Carpenter was unhappy that the film seemed to feature too many scenes of men standing around talking. He rewrote some already completed scenes to take place outdoors to be shot on location when principal photography moved to Stewart, British Columbia.\n\nCarpenter was determined to use authentic locations instead of studio sets, and his successes on \"Halloween\" and \"The Fog\" (1980) gave him the credibility to take on the much bigger-budget production of \"The Thing\". A film scout located an area just outside Stewart, along the Canadian coast, which offered the project both ease of access and scenic value during the day. On December 2, 1981, roughly 100 American and Canadian crew members moved to the area to begin filming. During the journey there, the crew bus slid in the snow toward the unprotected edge of the road, nearly sending it down a embankment. Some of the crew stayed in the small mining town during filming, while others lived on residential barges on the Portland Canal. They would make the drive up a small, winding road to the filming location in Alaska where the exterior outpost sets were built.\n\nThe sets had been built in Alaska during the summer, atop a rocky area overlooking a glacier, in preparation for snow to fall and cover them. They were used for both interior and exterior filming, meaning they could not be heated above freezing inside to ensure there was always snow on the roof. Outside, the temperature was so low that the camera lenses would freeze and break. The crew had to leave the cameras in the freezing temperatures, as keeping them inside in the warmth resulted in foggy lenses that took hours to clear. Filming, greatly dependent on the weather, took three weeks to complete, with heavy snow making it impossible to film on some days. It took eight hours to rig the explosives necessary to destroy the set in the film's finale.\n\nKeith David broke his hand in a car accident the day before he was to begin shooting. David attended filming the next day, but when Carpenter and Franco saw his swollen hand, they sent him to the hospital where it was punctured with two pins. He returned wearing a surgical glove beneath a black glove that was painted to resemble his complexion. His left hand is not seen for the first half of the film. Carpenter filmed the Norwegian camp scenes after the end scenes, using the damaged American base as a stand-in for the charred Norwegian camp. The explosive destruction of the base required the camera assistants to stand inside the set with the explosives, which were activated remotely. The assistants then had to run to a safe distance while seven cameras captured the base's destruction. Filmed when the heavy use of special effects was rare, the actors had to adapt to having Carpenter describe to them what their characters were looking at, as the effects would not be added until post-production. There were some puppets used to create the impression of what was happening in the scene, but in other cases the cast would be looking at a wall or an object marked with an \"X\".\n\nArt director John J. Lloyd oversaw the design and construction of all the sets, as there were no existing locations used in the film. Cundey suggested that the sets should have ceilings and pipes seen on camera to make the spaces seem more claustrophobic.\n\nSeveral scenes in the script were omitted from the film, sometimes because there was too much dialogue that slowed the pace and undermined the suspense. Carpenter blamed some of the issues on his directorial method, noting that several scenes appeared to be repeating events or information. Another scene featuring a snowmobile chase pursuing dogs was removed from the shooting script as it would have been too expensive to film. One scene present in the film, but not the script, features a monologue by MacReady. Carpenter added this partly to establish what was happening in the story, and because he wanted to highlight Russell's heroic character after taking over the camp. Carpenter said that Lancaster's experience writing ensemble pieces did not emphasize single characters. Since \"Halloween,\" several horror films had replicated many of the scare elements of that film, something Carpenter wanted to move away from for \"The Thing.\" He removed scenes from Lancaster's script that had been filmed, such as a body suddenly falling into view at the Norwegian camp, which he felt were too clichéd. Approximately three minutes of scenes were filmed from Lancaster's script that elaborated on the characters' backgrounds.\n\nA scene with MacReady absentmindedly inflating a blow-up doll while watching the Norwegian tapes was filmed but was not in the finished film. The doll would later appear as a jump scare with Nauls. Other scenes featured expanded or alternate deaths for various characters. In the finished film, Fuchs's charred bones are discovered, revealing he has died off -screen, but an alternate take sees his corpse impaled on a wall with a shovel. Nauls was scripted to appear in the finale as a partly assimilated mass of tentacles, but in the film he simply disappears. Carpenter struggled with a method of conveying to the audience what assimilation by the creature actually meant. Lancaster's original set piece of Bennings's death had him pulled beneath a sheet of ice by the Thing, before resurfacing in different areas in various stages of assimilation. The scene called for a set to be built on one of Universal's largest stages, with sophisticated hydraulics, dogs, and flamethrowers, but it was deemed too costly to produce. A scene was filmed with Bennings being murdered by an unknown assailant, but it was felt that assimilation, leading to his death, was not explained enough. Short on time, and with no interior sets remaining, a small set was built, Maloney was covered with K-Y Jelly, orange dye, and rubber tentacles. Monster gloves for a different creature were repurposed to demonstrate partial assimilation.\n\nCarpenter filmed multiple endings for \"The Thing\", including a \"happier\" ending because editor Todd Ramsay thought that the bleak, nihilistic conclusion would not test well with audiences. In the alternate take, MacReady is rescued and given a blood test that proves he is not infected. Carpenter said that stylistically this ending would have been \"cheesy\". Editor Verna Fields was tasked with reworking the ending to add clarity and resolution. It was finally decided to create an entirely new scene, which omitted the suspicion of Childs being infected by removing him completely, leaving MacReady alone. This new ending tested only slightly better with audiences than the original, and the production team agreed to the studio's request to use it. It was set to go to print for theaters when the producers, Carpenter, and executive Helena Hacker decided that the film was better left with ambiguity instead of nothing at all. Carpenter gave his approval to restore the ambiguous ending, but a scream was inserted over the outpost explosion to posit the monster's death. Universal executive Sidney Sheinberg disliked the ending's nihilism and, according to Carpenter, said, \"Think about how the audience will react if we see the [Thing] die with a giant orchestra playing\". Carpenter later noted that both the original ending and the ending without Childs tested poorly with audiences, which he interpreted as the film simply not being heroic enough.\n\nEnnio Morricone composed the film's score, as Carpenter wanted \"The Thing\" to have a European musical approach. Carpenter flew to Rome to speak with Morricone to convince him to take the job. By the time Morricone flew to Los Angeles to record the score, he had already developed a tape filled with an array of synthesizer music because he was unsure what type of score Carpenter wanted. Morricone wrote complete separate orchestral and synthesizer scores and a combined score, which he knew was Carpenter's preference. Carpenter picked a piece, closely resembling his own scores, that became the main theme used throughout the film. He also played the score from \"Escape from New York\" for Morricone as an example. Morricone made several more attempts, bringing the score closer to Carpenter's own style of music. In total, Morricone produced a score of approximately one hour that remained largely unused, but was later released as part of the film's soundtrack. Carpenter and his longtime collaborator Alan Howarth separately developed some synth-styled pieces used in the film. In 2012, Morricone recalled:\n\nI've asked [Carpenter], as he was preparing some electronic music with an assistant to edit on the film, \"Why did you call me, if you want to do it on your own?\" He surprised me, he said – \"I got married to your music. This is why I've called you.\" ... Then when he showed me the film, later when I wrote the music, we didn't exchange ideas. He ran away, nearly ashamed of showing it to me. I wrote the music on my own without his advice. Naturally, as I had become quite clever since 1982, I've written several scores relating to my life. And I had written one, which was electronic music. And [Carpenter] took the electronic score.\n\nCarpenter said:\n\n[Morricone] did all the orchestrations and recorded for me 20 minutes of music I could use wherever I wished but without seeing any footage. I cut his music into the film and realized that there were places, mostly scenes of tension, in which his music would not work... I secretly ran off and recorded in a couple of days a few pieces to use. My pieces were very simple electronic pieces – it was almost tones. It was not really music at all but just background sounds, something today you might even consider as sound effects.\n\n\"The Thing\"s special effects were largely designed by Bottin, who had previously worked with Carpenter on \"The Fog\" (1980). When Bottin joined the project in mid-1981, pre-production was in progress, but no design had been settled on for the alien. Artist Dale Kuipers had created some preliminary paintings of the creature's look, but he left the project after being hospitalized following a traffic accident before he could develop them further with Bottin. Carpenter conceived the Thing as a single creature, but Bottin suggested that it should be constantly changing and able to look like anything. Carpenter initially considered Bottin's description of his ideas as \"too weird\", and had him work with Ploog to sketch them instead. As part of the Thing's design, it was agreed anyone assimilated by it would be a perfect imitation and would not know they were the Thing. The actors spent hours during rehearsals discussing whether they would know they were the Thing when taken over. Clennon said that it did not matter, because everyone acted, looked and smelled exactly the same before being taken over. At its peak, Bottin had a 35-person crew of artists and technicians, and he found it difficult to work with so many people. To help manage the team, he hired Erik Jensen, a special effects line producer who he had worked with on \"The Howling\" (1981), to be in charge of the special make-up effects unit. Bottin's crew also included mechanical aspect supervisor Dave Kelsey, make-up aspect coordinator Ken Diaz, moldmaker Gunnar Ferdinansen, and Bottin's longtime friend Margaret Beserra, who managed painting and hair work.\nIn designing the Thing's different forms, Bottin explained that the creature had been all over the galaxy. This allowed it to call on different attributes as necessary, such as stomachs that transform into giant mouths and spider legs sprouting from heads. Bottin said the pressure he experienced caused him to dream about working on designs, some of which he would take note of after waking. One abandoned idea included a series of dead baby monsters, which was deemed \"too gross\". Bottin admitted he had no idea how his designs would be implemented practically, but Carpenter did not reject them. Carpenter said, \"what I didn't want to end up with in this movie was a guy in a suit ... I grew up as a kid watching science-fiction monster movies, and it was always a guy in a suit.\" According to Cundey, Bottin was very sensitive about his designs, and worried about the film showing too many of them. At one point, as a preemptive move against any censorship, Bottin suggested making the creature's violent transformations and the appearance of the internal organs more fantastical using colors. The decision was made to tone down the color of the blood and viscera, although much of the filming had been completed by that point. The creature effects used a variety of materials including mayonnaise, creamed corn, microwaved bubble gum, and K-Y Jelly.\n\nDuring filming, then-21-year-old Bottin was hospitalized for exhaustion, double pneumonia, and a bleeding ulcer, caused by his extensive workload. Bottin himself explained he would \"hoard the work\", opting to be directly involved in many of the complicated tasks. His dedication to the project saw him spend over a year living on the Universal lot. Bottin said he did not take a day off during that time, and slept on the sets or in locker rooms. To take some pressure off his crew, Bottin enlisted the aid of special effects creator Stan Winston to complete some of the designs, primarily the Dog-Thing. With insufficient time to create a sophisticated mechanical creature, Winston opted to create a hand puppet. A cast was made of makeup artists Lance Anderson's arm and head, around which the Dog-Thing was sculpted in oil-based clay. The final foam-latex puppet, worn by Anderson, featured radio-controlled eyes and cable-controlled legs, and was operated from below a raised set on which the kennel was built. Slime from the puppet would leak onto Anderson during the two days it took to film the scene, and he had to wear a helmet to protect himself from the explosive squibs simulating gunfire. Anderson pulled the tentacles into the Dog-Thing and reverse motion was used to create the effect of them slithering from its body. Winston refused to be credited for his work, insisting that Bottin deserved sole credit; Winston was given a \"thank you\" in the credits instead.\nIn the \"chest chomp\" scene, Dr. Copper attempts to revive Norris with a defibrillator. Revealing himself as the Thing, Norris-Thing's chest transforms into a large mouth that severs Copper's arms. Bottin accomplished this scene by recruiting a double amputee and fitting him with prosthetic arms filled with wax bones, rubber veins and Jell-O. The arms were then placed into the practical stomach mouth where the mechanical jaws clamped down on them, at which point the actor pulled away, severing the false arms. The effect of the Norris-Thing's head detaching from the body to save itself took many months of testing before Bottin was satisfied enough to film it. The scene involved a fire effect, but the crew were unaware that fumes from the rubber foam chemicals inside the puppet were flammable. The fire ignited the fumes, creating a large fireball that engulfed the puppet. It suffered only minimal damage after the fire had been put out, and the crew successfully filmed the scene. Stop-motion expert Randall William Cook developed a sequence for the end of the film where MacReady is confronted by the gigantic Blair-Thing. Cook created a miniature model of the set and filmed wide-angle shots of the monster in stop motion, but Carpenter was not convinced by the effect and used only a few seconds of it. It took 50 people to operate the actual Blair-Thing puppet.\n\nThe production intended to use a camera centrifuge—a rotating drum with a fixed camera platform—for the Palmer-Thing scene, allowing him to seem to run straight up the wall and across the ceiling. Again, the cost was too high and the idea abandoned for a stuntman falling into frame onto a floor made to look like the outpost's ceiling. Stuntman Anthony Cecere stood in for the Palmer-Thing after MacReady sets it on fire and it crashes through the outpost wall.\n\nCundey worked with Bottin to determine the appropriate lighting for each creature. He wanted to show off Bottin's work because of its detailing, but he was conscious that showing too much would reveal its artificial nature, breaking the illusion. Each encounter with the creature was planned for areas where they could justify using a series of small lights to highlight the particular creature-model's surface and textures. Cundey would illuminate the area behind the creature to detail its overall shape. He worked with Panasonic and a few other companies to develop a camera capable of automatically adjusting light exposure at different film speeds. He wanted to try filming the creature at fast and slow speeds thinking this would create a more interesting visual effect, but they were unable to accomplish this at the time. For the rest of the set, Cundey created a contrast by lighting the interiors with warmer lights hung overhead in conical shades so that they could still control the lighting and have darkened areas on set. The outside was constantly bathed in a cold, blue light that Cundey had discovered being used on airport runways. The reflective surface of the snow and the blue light helped create the impression of coldness. The team also made use of the flamethrowers and magenta-hued flares used by the actors to create dynamic lighting.\n\nThe team originally wanted to shoot the film in black and white, but Universal was reluctant as it could affect their ability to sell the television rights for the film. Instead, Cundey suggested muting the colors as much as possible. The inside of the sets was painted in neutral colors such as gray, and many of the props were also painted gray, while the costumes were a mix of somber browns, blues, and grays. They relied on the lighting to add color. Albert Whitlock provided matte-painted backdrops, including the scene in which the Americans discover the giant alien spaceship buried in the ice. A scene where MacReady walks up to a hole in the ice where the alien had been buried was filmed at Universal, while the surrounding area including the alien spaceship, helicopter, and snow were all painted.\n\nCarpenter's friend John Wash, who developed the opening computer simulation for \"Escape from New York\", designed the computer program showing how the Thing assimilates other organisms. Model maker Susan Turner built the alien ship approaching Earth in the pre-credits sequence, which featured 144 strobing lights. Drew Struzan designed the film's poster. He completed it in 24 hours, based only on a briefing, knowing little about the film.\n\nThe lack of information about the film's special effects drew the attention of film exhibitors in early 1982. They wanted reassurance that \"The Thing\" was a first-rate production capable of attracting audiences. Cohen and Foster, with a specially employed editor and Universal's archive of music, put together a 20-minute showreel emphasizing action and suspense. They used available footage, including alternate and extended scenes not in the finished film, but avoided revealing the special effects as much as possible. The reaction from the exclusively male exhibitors was generally positive, and Universal executive Robert Rehme told Cohen that the studio was counting on \"The Thing\"s success, as they expected \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" to appeal only to children. While finalizing the film, Universal sent Carpenter a demographic study showing that the audience appeal of horror films had declined by 70% over the previous six months. Carpenter considered this a suggestion that he lower his expectations of the film's performance. After one market research screening, Carpenter queried the audience on their thoughts, and one audience member asked, \"Well what happened in the very end? Which one was the Thing...?\" When Carpenter responded that it was up to their imagination, the audience member responded, \"Oh, God. I hate that.\"\n\nAfter returning from a screening of \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\", the audience's silence at a \"The Thing\" trailer caused Foster to remark, \"We're dead\". The response to public pre-screenings of \"The Thing\" resulted in the studio changing the somber, black-and-white advertising approved by the producers to a color image of a person with a glowing face. The tagline was also changed from \"Man is the warmest place to hide\"—written by Stephen Frankfort, who wrote the \"Alien\" tagline, \"In space, no one can hear you scream\"—to \"The ultimate in alien terror\", trying to capitalize on \"Alien\"s audience. Carpenter attempted to make a last-minute change of the film's title to \"Who Goes There?\", to no avail. The week before its release, Carpenter promoted the film with clips on \"Late Night with David Letterman\". In 1981, horror magazine \"Fangoria\" held a contest encouraging readers to submit drawings of what the Thing would look like. Winners were rewarded with a trip to Universal Studios. On its opening day, a special screening was held at the Hollywood Pacific Theatre, presided over by Elvira, Mistress of the Dark, with free admission for those in costume as monsters.\n\n\"The Thing\" was released in the United States on June 25, 1982. During its opening weekend, the film earned $3.1 million from 840 theaters—an average of $3,699 per theater—finishing as the number eight film of the weekend behind supernatural horror \"Poltergeist\" ($4.1 million), which was in its fourth weekend of release, and ahead of action film \"Megaforce\" ($2.3 million). It dropped out of the top 10 grossing films after three weeks. It ended its run earning a total of $19.6 million against its $15 million budget, making it only the 42nd highest-grossing film of 1982. It was not a box office failure, nor was it a hit.\n\nSince its release, cultural historians and critics have attempted to understand what led to \"The Thing\"s initial failure to connect with audiences. In a 1999 interview, Carpenter said audiences rejected \"The Thing\" for its nihilistic, depressing viewpoint at a time when the United States was in the midst of a recession. When it opened, it was competing against the critically and commercially successful \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" ($619 million), a more family-friendly film released two weeks earlier that offered a more optimistic take on alien visitation. Carpenter described it as the complete opposite of his film. \"The Thing\" opened on the same day as the science fiction film \"Blade Runner\", which debuted as the number two film that weekend with a take of $6.1 million and went on to earn $33.8 million. It was also regarded as a critical and commercial failure at the time. Others blamed an oversaturation of science fiction and fantasy films released that year, including \"Conan the Barbarian\" ($130 million), \"Poltergeist\" ($121.7 million), \"The Road Warrior\" ($34.5 million), \"\" ($97 million), and \"Tron\" ($33 million). Some analysts blamed Universal's poor marketing, which did not compete with the deluge of promotion for prominent films released that summer.\n\nAnother factor was the R rating it was given, restricting the audience to those over the age of 17 unless accompanied by an adult. \"Poltergeist\" received a PG rating, allowing families and younger children to view it.\n\nThe film received negative reviews on its release, and hostility for its cynical, anti-authoritarian tone and graphic special effects. \"Cinefantastique\" printed an issue with \"The Thing\" on its cover asking, \"Is this the most hated movie of all time?\" Some reviewers were dismissive of the film, calling it the \"quintessential moron movie of the 80's\", \"instant junk\", and a \"wretched excess\". \"Starlog\"s Alan Spencer called it a \"cold and sterile\" horror movie attempting to cash in on the genre audience, against the \"optimism of \"E.T.\", the reassuring return of \"Star Trek II\", the technical perfection of \"Tron\", and the sheer integrity of \"Blade Runner\"\".\n\nThe plot was criticized as \"boring\", and undermined by the special effects. The \"Los Angeles Times\"s Linda Gross said that \"The Thing\" was \"bereft, despairing, and nihilistic\", and lacking in feeling, meaning the characters' deaths did not matter. Spencer said it featured sloppy continuity, lacked pacing, and was devoid of warmth or humanity. David Ansen of \"Newsweek\" felt the film confused the use of effects with creating suspense, and that it lacked drama by \"sacrificing everything at the altar of gore\". The \"Chicago Reader\"s Dave Kehr considered the dialogue to be banal and interchangeable, making the characters seem and sound alike. \"The Washington Post\"s Gary Arnold said it was a witty touch to open with the Thing having already overcome the Norwegian base, defeating the type of traps seen in the 1951 version, while \"New York\"s David Denby lamented that the Thing's threat is only shown externally, without focusing on what it is like for someone who thinks they have been taken over. Roger Ebert considered the film to be scary, but offering nothing original beyond the special effects, while \"The New York Times\"s Vincent Canby said it was entertaining only if the viewer needed to see spider-legged heads and dog autopsies.\n\nReviews of the actors' performances were generally positive, while criticizing the depictions of the characters they portrayed. Ebert said they lacked characterization, offering basic stereotypes that existed just to be killed, and Spencer called the characters bland even though the actors do the best they can with the material. \"Time\"s Richard Schickel singled Russell out as the \"stalwart\" hero, where other characters were not as strongly or wittily characterized, and \"Variety\" said that Russell's heroic status was undercut by the \"suicidal\" attitude adopted toward the film's finale. Other reviews criticized implausibilities such as characters wandering off alone. Kehr did not like that the men did not band together against the Thing, and several reviews noted a lack of camaraderie and romance, which Arnold said reduced any interest beyond the special effects.\n\nThe film's special effects were simultaneously lauded and lambasted for being technically brilliant but visually repulsive and excessive. Reviews called Bottin's work \"genius\", noting the designs were novel, unforgettable, \"colorfully horrific\", and called him a \"master of the macabre\". Arnold said that the \"chest chomp\" scene demonstrated \"appalling creativity\" and the subsequent severed head scene was \"madly macabre\", comparing them to \"Alien\"s chest burster and severed head scenes. \"Variety\" called it \"the most vividly gruesome horror film to ever stalk the screens\". Conversely, Denby called them more disgusting than frightening, and lamented that the trend of horror films to open the human body more and more bordered on obscenity, Spencer said that Bottin's care and pride in his craft was shown in the effects, but both they and Schickel found them to be overwhelming and \"squandered\" without strong characters and story Even so, Canby said that the effects were too \"phony looking to be disgusting\". Canby and Arnold said the creature's lack of a single, discernible shape was to its detriment, and hiding it inside humans made it hard to follow. Arnold said that the 1951 version was less versatile, but easier to keep in focus.\n\nGross and Spencer praised the film's technical achievements, particularly Cundey's \"frostbitten\" cinematography, the sound, editing, and Morricone's score. Spencer was critical of Carpenter's direction, saying it was his \"futile\" attempt to give the audience what he thinks they want and that Carpenter was not meant to direct science fiction, but was instead suited to direct \"traffic accidents, train wrecks, and public floggings\". Ansen said that \"atrocity for atrocity's sake\" was ill-becoming of Carpenter.\n\n\"The Thing\" was often compared to similar films, particularly \"Alien\", \"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\" (1978), and \"The Thing from Another World\". Ebert and Denby said that \"The Thing\" seemed derivative compared to those films, which had portrayed the story in a better way. \"Variety\" called it inferior to the 1951 version. Arnold considered \"The Thing\" as the end result of \"Alien\" raising the requirement for horrific spectacle.\n\n\"The Thing from Another World\" actor Kenneth Tobey and director Christian Nyby also criticized the film. Nyby said, \"If you want blood, go to the slaughterhouse ... All in all, it’s a terrific commercial for J&B Scotch\". Tobey singled out the visual effects, saying they \"were so explicit that they actually destroyed how you were supposed to feel about the characters ... They became almost a movie in themselves, and were a little too horrifying.\" In his book \"Science Fiction\" (1984), Phil Hardy described the film as a \"surprising failure\" and called it \"Carpenter's most unsatisfying film to date\". The review noted that the narrative \"seems little more than an excuse for the various set-pieces of special effects and Russell's hero is no more than a cypher compared to Tobey's rounded character in Howard Hawks' \"The Thing\"\". Clennon said that introductory scenes for the characters, omitted from the film, made it hard for audiences to connect with them, robbing it of some of the broader appeal of \"Alien\".\n\n\"The Thing\" received nominations from the Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films for Best Horror Film and Best Special Effects, but lost to \"Poltergeist\" and \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\", respectively. The film was nominated in the Razzie Awards for Worst Musical Score.\n\nThe impact on Carpenter was immediate—he lost the job of directing the 1984 science fiction horror film \"Firestarter\" because of \"The Thing\"s poor performance. His previous success had gained him a multiple-film contract at Universal, but the studio opted to buy him out of it instead. He continued making films afterward but lost confidence, and did not openly talk about \"The Thing\"s failure until a 1985 interview with \"Starlog\", where he said, \"I was called 'a pornographer of violence' ... I had no idea it would be received that way ... \"The Thing\" was just too strong for that time. I knew it was going to be strong, but I didn't think it would be too strong ... I didn't take the public's taste into consideration.\" Shortly after its release, Wilbur Stark sued Universal for $43 million for \"slander, breach of contract, fraud and deceit\", alleging he incurred a financial loss by Universal failing to credit him properly in its marketing and by showing his name during the end credits, a less prestigious position. Stark also said that he \"contributed greatly to the [screenplay]\". David Foster responded that Stark was not involved with the film's production in any way, and received proper credit in all materials. Stark later sued for a further $15 million over Foster's comments. The outcome of the lawsuits is unknown.\n\nWhile \"The Thing\" was not initially successful, it was able to find new audiences and appreciation on home video, and later on television. Sidney Sheinberg edited a version of the film for network television broadcast, which added narration and a different ending, where the Thing imitates a dog and escapes the ruined camp. Carpenter disowned this version, and theorized that Sheinberg had been mad at him for not taking his creative ideas on board for the theatrical cut.\n\n\"The Thing\" was released on DVD in 1998 and featured additional content, such as \"The Thing: Terror Takes Shape\"—a detailed documentary on the production, deleted and alternate scenes, and commentary by Carpenter and Russell. An HD DVD version followed in 2006 containing the same features, and a Blu-ray version in 2008 featuring just the Carpenter and Russell commentary, and some behind-the-scenes videos available via picture-in-picture during the film. A 2016 Blu-ray release featured a 2K resolution restoration of the film, overseen by Dean Cundey. As well as including previous features such as the commentary and \"Terror Takes Shape\", it added interviews with the cast and crew, and segments that focus on the music, writing, editing, Ploog's artwork, an interview with Alan Dean Foster, who wrote the film's novelization, and the television broadcast version of \"The Thing\" that runs 15 minutes shorter than the theatrical cut. A 4K resolution restoration was released in 2017 on Blu-ray, initially as a United Kingdom exclusive with a limited run of 8,000 units. The restoration was created using the original film negative, and was overseen by Carpenter and Cundey.\n\nMCA released the soundtrack for \"The Thing\" in 1982. Varèse Sarabande re-released it in 1991 on compact disc and Compact Cassette. These versions eventually ceased being manufactured. In 2011, Howarth and Larry Hopkins restored Morricone's score using updated digital techniques, and arranged each track in the order it appears in the film. The album also includes tracks composed by Carpenter and Howarth for the film. A remastered version of the score was released on vinyl on February 23, 2017; a deluxe edition included an exclusive interview with Carpenter.\n\nThe central theme of \"The Thing\" concerns paranoia and mistrust. Fundamentally, the film is about the erosion of trust in a small community, instigated by different forms of paranoia caused by the possibility of someone not being who they say they are, or that your best friend may be your enemy. It represents the distrust that humans always have for somebody else and the fear of betrayal by those we know and, ultimately, our bodies. The theme remains timely because the subject of paranoia adapts to the age. \"The Thing\" focuses on being unable to trust one's peers, but this can be interpreted as distrust of entire institutions.\n\nDeveloped in an era of cold-war tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union, the film refers to the threat of nuclear annihilation by mutually assured destruction. \"Diabolique\"s Daniel Clarkson Fisher notes that MacReady destroys the chess computer after being checkmated, and similarly vows to destroy the Thing, even at the expense of the team. The Cold War-style isolationism hurts the group, while a lack of trust destroys it. Screen Rants Michael Edward Taylor draws allusions between \"The Thing\" and the accusatory Red Scares and McCarthyism, as the film conveys an anti-communist fear of infection of civilized areas that will lead to assimilation and imitation. \"Slant Magazine\"s John Lingsan said the men display a level of post-Vietnam War (1955-1975) \"fatigued counterculturalism\"—the rejection of conventional social norms, each defined by their own eccentricities.\n\nLancaster's script eschews female characters because he believed that a female character was a love interest who inevitably gets in the way. \"The Atlantic\"s Noah Berlatsky said that unlike typical horror genre films, females are excluded, allowing the Thing to be identified as a fear of not being a man, or being homosexual. Indeed, several assimilations involve penetration, tentacles, and in Norris's case, opened up at the stomach to birth his own replica. The slasher genre favors female stars as they are perceived as weaker and therefore more empathetic, providing a cathartic release when they defeat the villain, but in \"The Thing\" the men are not meant to survive. \"Vice\"s Patrick Marlborough considered \"The Thing\" to be a critical take on masculinity. Identifying the Thing requires intimacy, confession, and empathy to out the creature, but masculinity prevents this as an option. Trapped by pride and stunted emotional growth, the men are unable to confront the truth out of fear of embarrassment or exposure. Berlatsky noted that MacReady avoids emotional attachments and is the most paranoid, allowing him to be the hero. This detachment works against him in the finale, which leaves MacReady locked in a futile mistrust with Childs, each not really knowing the other.\n\nNerdist's Kyle Anderson and \"Strange Horizons\"s Orrin Grey analyzed \"The Thing\" as an example of author H. P. Lovecraft's cosmic horror, the notion that ancient, inhuman beings exist that do not care about humanity in any way. This also includes the fear of losing one's humanity, and being consumed, figuratively or literally, by these ancient eldritch behemoths. The Thing is a being beyond our understanding and possesses the ability to destroy all life on Earth quickly. Just as Lovecraft left his creatures undescribed, the Thing can be seen, but its shape is mostly indescribable, beyond the realm of human knowledge. Grey said that MacReady represents a more traditional Hollywood film protagonist, but Blair represents the Lovecraftian protagonist, who succumbs to his fear of the creature, is driven insane by the implications of its nature, and eventually becomes what he fears.\n\nThe Thing never speaks or gives a motive for its actions, and ruthlessly pursues its goal. Grey describes the creature as fear of the loss of self. It attacks, consumes and imitates an individual perfectly with memories and behaviors. The original is subsumed by an alien copy that is virtually impossible to identify. \"Den of Geek!\"s Mark Harrison and Ryan Lambie said that the essence of humanity is free will, which is stripped away by the Thing, possibly without the individual being aware that they have been taken over. In a 1982 interview, when given the option to describe \"The Thing\" as \"pro-science\" like \"Who Goes There?\" or \"anti-science\" like \"The Thing from Another World\", Carpenter chose \"pro-human\", stating, \"It's better to be a human being than an imitation, or let ourselves be taken over by this creature who's not necessarily evil, but whose nature it is to simply imitate, like a chameleon.\" Further allusions have been drawn between the blood-test scene and the epidemic of HIV at the time, which could only be identified by a blood test.\n\nIn the years following its release, critics and fans have reevaluated \"The Thing\" as a milestone of the horror genre. A prescient review by Peter Nicholls in 1992, called \"The Thing\" \"a black, memorable film [that] may yet be seen as a classic\". It has been called one of, if not the best film directed by Carpenter. John Kenneth Muir called it \"Carpenter's most accomplished and underrated directorial effort,\" and critic Matt Zoller Seitz said it \"is one of the greatest and most elegantly constructed B-movies ever made\".\n\nTrace Thurman described it as one of the best films ever, and in 2008, \"Empire\" magazine selected it as one of The 500 Greatest Movies of All Time, calling it \"a peerless masterpiece of relentless suspense, retina-wrecking visual excess and outright, nihilistic terror\". It is now considered to be one of the greatest horror films ever made, and a classic of the genre. Several publications have called it one of the best films of 1982, including Filmsite.org, Film.com, and \"Entertainment Weekly\". Muir called it \"the best science fiction-horror film of 1982, an incredibly competitive year, and perhaps even the best genre motion picture of the decade\". \"Complex\" named it the ninth-best of the decade, calling it the \"greatest genre remake of all time\". Numerous publications have ranked it as one of the best science fiction films, including number four by IGN (2016); number 12 by \"Thrillist\" (2018); number 17 by \"GamesRadar+\" (2018); number 31 by \"Paste\" (2018); number 32 by \"Esquire\" (2015) and \"Popular Mechanics\" (2017); and number 76 by Rotten Tomatoes (2017) based on its average review score.\n\nSimilarly, \"The Thing\" has appeared on several lists of the top horror films, including number one by \"The Boston Globe\"; number two by Bloody Disgusting (2018); number four by \"Empire\" (2016); and number six by \"Time Out\" (2016). \"Empire\" listed its poster as the 43rd best film poster ever. In 2016, the British Film Institute named it one of 10 great films about aliens visiting Earth. It was voted the ninth best horror film of all time in a \"Rolling Stone\" readers poll, and is considered one of the best examples of body horror. Contemporary review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes offers an 83% approval rating from 59 critics—an average rating of 7.4/10, which provides the consensus, \"Grimmer and more terrifying than the 1950s take, John Carpenter's \"The Thing\" is a tense sci-fi thriller rife with compelling tension and some remarkable make-up effects.\" The film also has a score of 57 out of 100 on Metacritic based on 13 critical reviews, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nIn a 2011 interview, Carpenter remarked that it was close to, if not, his favorite film from his own filmography. He lamented that it took a long time for \"The Thing\" to find a wider audience, saying, \"If \"The Thing\" had been a hit, my career would have been different. I wouldn't have had to make the choices that I made. But I needed a job. I'm not saying I hate the movies I did. I loved making \"Christine\" (1983) and \"Starman\" (1984) and \"Big Trouble In Little China\" (1986), all those films. But my career would have been different.\"\n\nThe film has had a significant impact on popular culture, and by 1998, \"The Thing\" was already considered a cult classic. It has been referred to in a variety of media, from television (including \"Stranger Things\", \"The X-Files\", and \"Futurama\") to video games (\"Resident Evil 4\" and \"Tomb Raider III\") and films (\"The Faculty\" (1998), \"Slither\" (2006), \"The Mist\" (2007)). It is listed in the film reference book \"1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die\", which says \"one of the most influential horror movies of the 1980s, much imitated but rarely bettered... It is one of the first films to unflinchingly show the rupture and warp of flesh and bone into grotesque tableaus of surreal beauty, forever raising the bar of cinematic horror.\"\nSeveral filmmakers have spoken of their appreciation for \"The Thing\" or cited its influence on their own work, including Guillermo del Toro, James DeMonaco, J. J. Abrams, Neill Blomkamp, David Robert Mitchell, Rob Hardy, Steven S. DeKnight, and Quentin Tarantino. In 2011, \"The New York Times\" asked prominent horror filmmakers what film they had found the scariest. Two, John Sayles and Edgar Wright, cited \"The Thing\". The 2015 Tarantino film \"The Hateful Eight\" takes numerous cues from \"The Thing\", from featuring Russell in a starring role, to replicating themes of paranoia and mistrust between characters restricted to a single location, and even duplicating certain angles and layouts used by Carpenter and Cundey. Pieces of Morricone's unused score for \"The Thing\" were repurposed for \"The Hateful Eight\". Tarantino also cited \"The Thing\" as an inspiration for his 1992 film \"Reservoir Dogs\".\n\nThe film is screened annually in February to mark the beginning of winter at the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station. In January 2010, \"Clarkesworld Magazine\" published \"The Things\", a short story by Peter Watts told from the Thing's point of view; it is unable to understand why humans are hostile toward it. The story received a 2011 Hugo Award nomination. In 2017, a 400-page art book was released featuring art inspired by \"The Thing\", with contributions from 350 artists, a foreword by director Eli Roth, and an afterword by Carpenter. An excursion of fans to the filming location in Alaska is currently scheduled to take place in 2022, to celebrate the film's 40th anniversary.\n\nThe 2007 Halloween Horror Nights event at Universal Studios in Orlando, Florida, featured \"The Thing: Assimilation\", a haunted attraction based on the film. The attraction included MacReady and Childs, both held in stasis, the Blair-Thing and the outpost kennel.\n\nA novelization of the film was published by Alan Dean Foster in 1982. It is based on an earlier draft of the script and features some differences from the finished film. A scene in which MacReady, Bennings, and Childs chase infected dogs out into the snow is included, and Nauls's disappearance is explained: Cornered by the Blair-Thing, he chooses suicide over assimilation.\n\nIn 2000, McFarlane Toys released two \"Movie Maniacs\" figures: the Blair-Thing and the Norris-Thing, including its spider-legged, disembodied head. SOTA Toys released a set featuring a MacReady figure and the Dog-Thing based on the film's kennel scene, and a bust of the Norris-Thing's spider-head. In 2017, Mondo and the Project Raygun division of USAopoly released \"The Thing: Infection at Outpost 31\", a board game. Players take on the role of characters from the film or the Thing, each aiming to defeat the other through subterfuge and sabotage.\n\nDark Horse Comics published four comic book sequels starring MacReady, beginning in December 1991 with the two-part \"The Thing from Another World\" by Chuck Pfarrer, which is set 24 hours after the film. Pfarrer was reported to have pitched his comic tale to Universal as a sequel in the early 1990s. This was followed by the four-part \"The Thing from Another World: Climate of Fear\" in July 1992, the four-part \"The Thing from Another World: Eternal Vows\" in December 1993, and \"The Thing from Another World: Questionable Research\".\n\nIn 1999, Carpenter said that no serious discussions had taken place for a sequel, but he would be interested in basing one on Pfarrer's adaptation, calling the story a worthy sequel. A 2002 video game of the same name was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 2, and Xbox to generally favorable reviews. The game's plot follows a team of U.S. soldiers investigating the aftermath of the film's events.\n\nIn 2005, the Syfy channel planned a four-hour miniseries sequel produced by Frank Darabont and written by David Leslie Johnson. The story follows a Russian team who recover the corpses of MacReady and Childs, and remnants of the Thing. The story moves forward 23 years, where the Thing escapes in New Mexico, and follows the attempts at containment. The project never proceeded, and Universal opted to continue with a feature film sequel. A prequel film, \"The Thing\", was released in October 2011 to a $27.4 million worldwide box office gross and mixed reviews. The story follows the events after the Norwegian team discovers the Thing.\n\nAlthough released years apart, and unrelated in terms of plot, characters, crew, or even production studios, Carpenter considers \"The Thing\" to be the first installment in his \"Apocalypse Trilogy\", a series of films based around cosmic horror, entities unknown to man, that are threats to both human life and the sense of self. \"The Thing\" was followed by \"Prince of Darkness\" in 1987, and \"In the Mouth of Madness\" in 1995. All three films are heavily influenced by Carpenter's appreciation for the works of H. P. Lovecraft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37293456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37293456", "title": "Thomas III d'Autremencourt", "text": "Thomas III d'Autremencourt\n\nThomas III d'Autremencourt or de Stromoncourt (died 15 March 1311) was the fourth Lord of Salona (modern Amfissa) in Central Greece, and the last of his family. He ruled his domain from 1294 until his death in the Battle of the Cephissus against the Catalan Company in 1311. At the same time, he also held the position of marshal of the Principality of Achaea. After his death, his widow and domain passed to Roger Deslaur, who in the aftermath of Cephissus was for a brief time (1311–1312) selected as the leader of the Catalan Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "45018261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45018261", "title": "Transhumanist politics", "text": "Transhumanist politics\n\nTranshumanist politics constitutes a group of political ideologies that generally express the belief in improving human individuals through science and technology.\nThe term \"transhumanism\" with its present meaning was popularised by Julian Huxley's 1957 essay of that name.\n\nNatasha Vita-More was elected as a Councilperson for the 28th Senatorial District of Los Angeles in 1992. She ran with the Green Party, but on a personal platform of \"transhumanism\". She quit after a year, saying her party was \"too neurotically geared toward environmentalism\".\n\nJames Hughes identifies the \"neoliberal\" Extropy Institute, founded by philosopher Max More and developed in the 1990s, as the first organized advocates for transhumanism. And he identifies the late-1990s formation of the World Transhumanist Association (WTA), a European organization which later was renamed to Humanity+ (H+), as partly a reaction to the free market perspective of the \"Extropians\". Per Hughes, \"[t]he WTA included both social democrats and neoliberals around a liberal democratic definition of transhumanism, codified in the Transhumanist Declaration.\" Hughes has also detailed the political currents in transhumanism, particularly the shift around 2009 from socialist transhumanism to libertarian and anarcho-capitalist transhumanism. He claims that the left was pushed out of the World Transhumanist Association Board of Directors, and that libertarians and Singularitarians have secured a hegemony in the transhumanism community with help from Peter Thiel, but Hughes remains optimistic about a techno-progressive future.\n\nIn 2012, the Longevity Party, a movement described as \"100% transhumanist\" by cofounder Maria Konovalenko, began to organize in Russia for building a balloted political party. Another Russian programme, the 2045 Initiative was founded in 2012 by billionaire Dmitry Itskov with its own \"Evolution 2045\" political party advocating life extension and android avatars.\n\nWriting for \"H+ Magazine\" in July 2014, futurist Peter Rothman called Gabriel Rothblatt \"very possibly the first openly transhumanist political candidate in the United States\" when he ran as a candidate for the United States Congress.\n\nIn October 2014, Zoltan Istvan announced that he would be running in the 2016 United States presidential election under the banner of the \"Transhumanist Party.\" By May 2018, the Party had nearly 880 members, and chairmanship had been given to Gennady Stolyarov II. Other groups using the name \"Transhumanist Party\" exist in the United Kingdom and Germany.\n\nAccording to a 2006 study by the European Parliament, transhumanism is the political expression of the ideology that technology should be used to enhance human abilities.\n\nAccording to Amon Twyman of the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies (IEET), political philosophies which support transhumanism include social futurism, techno-progressivism, techno-libertarianism, and anarcho-transhumanism. Twyman considers such philosophies to collectively constitute political transhumanism.\n\nTechno-progressives also known as Democratic transhumanists, support equal access to human enhancement technologies in order to promote social equality and prevent technologies from furthering the divide among socioeconomic classes. However, libertarian transhumanist Ronald Bailey is critical of the democratic transhumanism described by James Hughes. Jeffrey Bishop wrote that the disagreements among transhumanists regarding individual and community rights is \"precisely the tension that philosophical liberalism historically tried to negotiate,\" but that disagreeing entirely with a posthuman future is a disagreement with the right to choose what humanity will become. Woody Evans has supported placing posthuman rights in a continuum with animal rights and human rights.\n\nRiccardo Campa wrote that transhumanism can be coupled with many different political, philosophical, and religious views, and that this diversity can be an asset so long as transhumanists do not give priority to existing affiliations over membership with organized transhumanism.\n\nSome transhumanists question the use of politicizing transhumanism. Truman Chen of the \"Stanford Political Journal\" considers many transhumanist ideals to be anti-political.\n\nDemocratic transhumanism, a term coined by James Hughes in 2002, refers to the stance of transhumanists (advocates for the development and use of human enhancement technologies) who espouse liberal, social, and/or radical democratic political views.\n\nAccording to Hughes, the ideology \"stems from the assertion that human beings will generally be happier when they take rational control of the natural and social forces that control their lives.\"\nThe ethical foundation of democratic transhumanism rests upon rule utilitarianism and non-anthropocentric personhood theory. Democratic transhumanist support equal access to human enhancement technologies in order to promote social equality and to prevent technologies from furthering the divide among the socioeconomic classes.\nWhile raising objections both to right-wing and left-wing bioconservatism, and libertarian transhumanism, Hughes aims to encourage democratic transhumanists and their potential progressive allies to unite as a new social movement and influence biopolitical public policy.\n\nAn attempt to expand the middle ground between technorealism and techno-utopianism, democratic transhumanism can be seen as a radical form of techno-progressivism. Appearing several times in Hughes' work, the term \"radical\" (from Latin \"rādīx, rādīc-\", root) is used as an adjective meaning \"of or pertaining to the root\" or \"going to the root\". His central thesis is that emerging technologies and radical democracy can help citizens overcome some of the \"root causes\" of inequalities of power.\n\nAccording to Hughes, the terms techno-progressivism and democratic transhumanism both refer to the same set of Enlightenment values and principles; however, the term technoprogressive has replaced the use of the word democratic transhumanism.\n\nHughes has identified 15 \"left futurist\" or \"left techno-utopian\" trends and projects that could be incorporated into democratic transhumanism:\n\nThese are notable individuals who have identified themselves, or have been identified by Hughes, as advocates of democratic transhumanism:\n\nScience journalist Ronald Bailey wrote a review of \"Citizen Cyborg\" in his online column for \"Reason\" magazine in which he offered a critique of democratic transhumanism and a defense of libertarian transhumanism.\n\nCritical theorist Dale Carrico defended democratic transhumanism from Bailey's criticism. However, he would later criticize democratic transhumanism himself on technoprogressive grounds.\n\nLibertarian transhumanism is a political ideology synthesizing libertarianism and transhumanism.\nSelf-identified libertarian transhumanists, such as Ronald Bailey of \"Reason\" magazine and Glenn Reynolds of Instapundit, are advocates of the asserted \"right to human enhancement\" who argue that the free market is the best guarantor of this right, claiming that it produces greater prosperity and personal freedom than other economic systems.\n\nLibertarian transhumanists believe that the principle of self-ownership is the most fundamental idea from which both libertarianism and transhumanism stem. They are rational egoists and ethical egoists who embrace the prospect of using emerging technologies to enhance human capacities, which they believe stems from the self-interested application of reason and will in the context of the individual freedom to achieve a posthuman state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity. They extend this rational and ethical egoism to advocate a form of \"biolibertarianism\".\n\nAs strong civil libertarians, libertarian transhumanists hold that any attempt to limit or suppress the asserted right to human enhancement is a violation of civil rights and civil liberties. However, as strong economic libertarians, they also reject proposed public policies of government-regulated and -insured human enhancement technologies, which are advocated by democratic transhumanists, because they fear that any state intervention will steer or limit their choices.\n\nExtropianism, the earliest current of transhumanist thought defined in 1988 by philosopher Max More, initially included an anarcho-capitalist interpretation of the concept of \"spontaneous order\" in its principles, which states that a free market economy achieves a more efficient allocation of societal resources than any planned or mixed economy could achieve. In 2000, while revising the principles of Extropy, More seemed to be abandoning libertarianism in favor of modern liberalism and anticipatory democracy. However, many Extropians remained libertarian transhumanists.\n\nCritiques of the techno-utopianism of libertarian transhumanists from progressive cultural critics include Richard Barbrook and Andy Cameron's 1995 essay \"The Californian Ideology\"; Mark Dery's 1996 book \"Escape Velocity: Cyberculture at the End of the Century\"; and Paulina Borsook's 2000 book \"Cyberselfish: A Critical Romp Through the Terribly Libertarian Culture of High-Tech\".\n\nBarbrook argues that libertarian transhumanists are proponents of the Californian Ideology who embrace the goal of reactionary modernism: economic growth without social mobility. According to Barbrook, libertarian transhumanists are unwittingly appropriating the theoretical legacy of Stalinist communism by substituting, among other concepts, the \"vanguard party\" with the \"digerati\", and the \"new Soviet man\" with the \"posthuman\". Dery coined the dismissive phrase \"body-loathing\" to describe the attitude of libertarian transhumanists and those in the cyberculture who want to escape from their \"meat puppet\" through mind uploading into cyberspace. Borsook asserts that libertarian transhumanists indulge in a subculture of selfishness, elitism, and escapism.\n\nSociologist James Hughes is the most militant critic of libertarian transhumanism. While articulating \"democratic transhumanism\" as a sociopolitical program in his 2004 book \"Citizen Cyborg\", Hughes sought to convince libertarian transhumanists to embrace social democracy by arguing that:\n\nKlaus-Gerd Giesen, a German political scientist specializing in the philosophy of technology, wrote a critique of the libertarianism he imputes to all transhumanists. While pointing out that the works of Austrian School economist Friedrich Hayek figure in practically all of the recommended reading lists of Extropians, he argues that transhumanists, convinced of the sole virtues of the free market, advocate an unabashed inegalitarianism and merciless meritocracy which can be reduced in reality to a biological fetish. He is especially critical of their promotion of a science-fictional liberal eugenics, virulently opposed to any political regulation of human genetics, where the consumerist model presides over their ideology. Giesen concludes that the despair of finding social and political solutions to today's sociopolitical problems incites transhumanists to reduce everything to the hereditary gene, as a fantasy of omnipotence to be found within the individual, even if it means transforming the subject (human) to a new draft (posthuman).\n\n"}
{"id": "54405874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54405874", "title": "Urasoe Chōri", "text": "Urasoe Chōri\n\n, also known by and his Chinese style name , was a bureaucrat of Ryukyu Kingdom.\n\nUrasoe Chōri was a son of Urasoe Chōshi, and was also an younger brother of Kunigami Chōchi. He was elected as a member of \"Sanshikan\" in 1636.\n\nA Spanish ship docked at Ishigaki Island in 1624. Juan de los Angeles Rueda, who was a missionary of O.P., preached to local people. Though Christianity was banned by Japan at that time, Rueda was sheltered by a local officer Ishigaki Eishō (). It was exposed in 1634, both Ishigaki and Rueda were exiled and later executed. This incident was known by Yaeyama Kirishitan Incident (). After this incident, Ryukyu started to investigate religious beliefs of its people, and forced Christians to convert (\"Shūmon-aratame\" ). Urasoe Chōri went to Satsuma to report the result of \"Shūmon-aratame\", but on the way home, his ship was caught in a storm and disappeared in the sea. His position was vacant until 1641.\n\n"}
{"id": "667597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=667597", "title": "Vision for Space Exploration", "text": "Vision for Space Exploration\n\nThe Vision for Space Exploration (VSE) was a plan for space exploration announced on January 14, 2004 by President George W. Bush. It was conceived as a response to the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster, the state of human spaceflight at NASA, and as a way to regain public enthusiasm for space exploration. It was replaced by the space policy of the Barack Obama administration in June 2010.\n\nThe Vision for Space Exploration sought to implement a sustained and affordable human and robotic program to explore the solar system and beyond; extend human presence across the solar system, starting with a human return to the Moon by the year 2020, in preparation for human exploration of Mars and other destinations; develop the innovative technologies, knowledge, and infrastructures both to explore and to support decisions about the destinations for human exploration; and to promote international and commercial participation in exploration to further U.S. scientific, security, and economic interests.\n\nIn pursuit of these goals, the Vision called for the space program to complete the International Space Station by 2010; retire the Space Shuttle by 2010; develop a new Crew Exploration Vehicle (later renamed Orion) by 2008, and conduct its first human spaceflight mission by 2014; explore the Moon with robotic spacecraft missions by 2008 and crewed missions by 2020, and use lunar exploration to develop and test new approaches and technologies useful for supporting sustained exploration of Mars and beyond; explore Mars and other destinations with robotic and crewed missions; pursue commercial transportation to support the International Space Station and missions beyond low Earth orbit.\n\nOutlining some of the advantages, U.S. President George W. Bush addressed the following:\n\nOne of the stated goals for the Constellation program is to gain significant experience in operating away from Earth's environment, as the White House contended, to embody a \"sustainable course of long-term exploration.\" The Ares boosters are a cost-effective approach — entailing the Ares V's enormous, unprecedented cargo-carrying capacity — transporting future space exploration resources to the Moon's weaker gravity field. While simultaneously serving as a proving ground for a wide range of space operations and processes, the Moon may serve as a cost-effective construction, launching and fueling site for future space exploration missions. For example, future Ares V missions could cost-effectively deliver raw materials for future spacecraft and missions to a Moon-based space dock positioned as a counterweight to a Moon-based space elevator.\n\nNASA has also outlined plans for manned missions to the far side of the Moon. All of the Apollo missions have landed on the near side. Unique products may be producible in the nearly limitless extreme vacuum of the lunar surface, and the Moon's remoteness is the ultimate isolation for biologically hazardous experiments. The Moon would become a proving ground also toward the development of In-Situ Resource Utilization, or \"living off the land\" (i.e., self-sufficiency) for permanent human outposts.\n\nIn a position paper issued by the National Space Society (NSS), a return to the Moon should be considered a high space program priority, to begin development of the knowledge and identification of the industries unique to the Moon. The NSS believes that the Moon may be a repository of the history and possible future of our planet, and that the six Apollo landings only scratched the surface of that 'treasure'. According to NSS, the Moon's far side, permanently shielded from the noisy Earth, is an ideal site for future radio astronomy (for example, signals in the 1-10 MHz range cannot be detected on Earth because of ionosphere interference.)\n\nWhen the Vision was announced in January 2004, the U.S. Congress and the scientific community gave it a mix of positive and negative reviews. For example, Rep. Dave Weldon (R-Fla.) said, \"I think this is the best thing that has happened to the space program in decades.\" Though physicist and outspoken manned spaceflight opponent Robert L. Park stated that robotic spacecraft \"are doing so well it's going to be hard to justify sending a human,\" the vision announced by the President states that \"robotic missions will serve as trailblazers — the advanced guard to the unknown.\" Others, such as the Mars Society, have argued that it makes more sense to avoid going back to the Moon and instead focus on going to Mars first.\n\nThroughout much of 2004, it was unclear whether the U.S. Congress would be willing to approve and fund the Vision for Space Exploration. However, in November 2004, Congress passed a spending bill which gave NASA the $16.2 billion that President Bush had sought to kick-start the Vision. According to then-NASA chief Sean O'Keefe, that spending bill \"was as strong an endorsement of the space exploration vision, as any of us could have imagined.\" In 2005, Congress passed S.1281, the NASA Authorization Act of 2005, which explicitly endorses the Vision.\n\nFormer NASA Administrator Michael Griffin is a big supporter of the Vision, but modified it somewhat, saying that he wants to reduce the four-year gap between the retirement of the Space Shuttle and the first manned mission of the Crew Exploration Vehicle.\n\nNASA's \"Lunar Architecture\" forms a key part of its Global Exploration Strategy, also known as the Vision for Space Exploration. The first part of the Lunar Architecture is the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, which launched in June 2009 on board an Atlas V. The preliminary design review was completed in February 2006 and the critical design review was completed in November 2006. An important function of the orbiter will be to look for further evidence that the increased concentrations of hydrogen discovered at the moon's poles is in the form of lunar ice. After this the lunar flights will make use of the new Ares I and Ares V rockets.\n\nIn December 2003, Buzz Aldrin voiced criticism for NASA's vision and objectives, stating that the goal of sending astronauts back to the moon was \"more like reaching for past glory than striving for new triumphs\".\n\nIn February 2009, the Aerospace Technology Working Group released an in-depth report asserting that the Vision had several fundamental problems with regard to politics, financing, and general space policy issues and that the initiative should be rectified or replaced.\n\nAnother concern noted is that funding for VSE could instead be harnessed to advance science and technology, such as in aeronautics, commercial spacecraft and launch vehicle technology, environmental monitoring, and biomedical sciences. However, VSE itself is poised to propel a host of beneficial Moon science activities, including lunar telescopes, selenological studies and solar energy beams.\n\nWith or without VSE, human spaceflight will be made sustainable. However, without VSE, more funds could be directed toward reducing human spaceflight costs sufficiently for the betterment of low Earth orbit research, business, and tourism. Alternatively, VSE could afford advances in other scientific research (astronomy, selenology), in-situ lunar business industries, and lunar-space tourism.\n\nThe VSE budget required termination the Space Shuttle by 2010 and of any US role in the International Space Station by 2017. This would have required, even in the most optimistic plans, in a period of years without human spaceflight capability from the US. Termination of the Space Shuttle program, without any planned alternatives, in 2011 ended virtually all US capability for reusable launch vehicles. This severely limited any future of low earth orbit or deep space exploration. Ultimately, the lack of proper funding caused the VSE to fall short of its original goals, leaving many projects behind schedule as President George W. Bush's term in office ended.\n\n\"The damage done to America and the rest of the world by unsustainable deficits is real, and any lack of zeal in facing this problem would be a mistake. In that context, this would be a good time for Congress to look again at Bush's plans for NASA to re-establish a human presence in deep space. The outgoing Republican Congress gave its Republican president too much benefit of the doubt on this undertaking. The new Congress must, at the very least, articulate more convincing reasons than have yet been heard for such a colossal expenditure.\"\n\n\"A large portion of the scientific community\" concurs that NASA is not \"expanding our scientific understanding of the universe\" in \"the most effective or cost-efficient way.\" Proponents for VSE argue that a permanent settlement on the moon would drastically reduce costs for further space exploration missions. President George W. Bush voiced this sentiment when the vision was first announced (see quote above), and the United States Senate has re-entered testimony by Space Frontier Foundation founder Rick Tumlinson offered previously to the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation advocating this particular perspective. The reason that the National Space Society regards a return to the Moon as a high space program priority is to begin development of the knowledge and identification of the industries unique to the Moon, because \"such industries can provide economic leverage and support for NASA activities, saving the government millions.\"\n\nAs Tumlinson additionally notes, the goal is to \"open space ... to human settlement ... to create ways to harvest the resources ... not only saving this precious planet, but also ... assuring our survival.\" Regarding \"the Moon, NASA should support early exploration now...\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58018348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58018348", "title": "Wale Aboderin", "text": "Wale Aboderin\n\nGbadebowale Aboderin (1958 – 30 May 2018) was a Nigerian journalist, businessman and sports administrator, who was until his death the chairman of Punch Nigeria Limited, a publishing house founded by his father. Described by Vanguard as a pillar of journalism, he schooled at Government College, Ibadan, before undergoing aviation training at Burnside-Ott Flying School. In sports, he was chairman, Lagos State Basketball Association and vice-president of Nigeria Basketball Supporters Club. Aboderin died after a heart surgery in Lagos. President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, Governor of Lagos, Akinwunmi Ambode were among those that commiserated with his family.\n\nIn 1997, he established Nigeria's first private female basketball club, Dolphins.\n"}
{"id": "48425993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48425993", "title": "William Black (actor)", "text": "William Black (actor)\n\nWilliam Black was an American Broadway theatre and silent film actor. He appeared on Broadway in 10 productions from 1899 to 1931, and in 39 films between 1916 and 1941. He also appeared under the names Bill Black, William Wallace Black, William W. Black, and W. W. Black.\n\nBlack was born in Irvington, New York in 1871. He appeared in his first Broadway production, a revival of an opera by Jacques Offenbach called \"La Belle Hélène\", in 1899. He went on to appear in eight other productions through 1910, including three mountings of \"His Honor the Mayor\", a musical comedy in 1906 and 1907, and a production of \"Little Nemo\", in which he received star billing. His final stage appearance on Broadway was 21 years later, in 1931 in a farce called \"Company's Coming\" which ran for only 8 performances.\n\n\nAt the time that Black was initially appearing on Broadway, the American film industry was centered in the New York metropolitan area. Black's first film appearance was in 1916, in a film called \"Vanity\". He worked consistently, generally playing small parts, through 1919 and into the early 1920s, when the pace of his appearances slowed down. Whether or not this was the result of the industry's switch to sound is not clear. By the mid-20s, his film appearances were few, with two films in 1924, two in 1926, and then two in 1930. His next film appearance was in 1935, followed by two uncredited appearances in 1938 and 1941, when he was in \"Hello, Sucker\" in a bit part.\n\n"}
{"id": "52546790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52546790", "title": "William Buchanan (footballer)", "text": "William Buchanan (footballer)\n\nWilliam Duncan Buchanan was a Scottish amateur football right half who made over 90 appearances in the Scottish League for Queen's Park. He represented Scotland at amateur level.\n"}
{"id": "29499892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29499892", "title": "William Hancock (ophthalmologist)", "text": "William Hancock (ophthalmologist)\n\nWilliam Ilbert Hancock F.R.C.S. (10 April 1873 – 26 January 1910) was an English ophthalmologist who worked as an assistant surgeon at the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital. He was also a sportsman who represented England in tennis.\n\nWilliam Ilbert Hancock was born in Wiveliscombe, Somerset as one of ten boys and three girls to William Hancock and Mary Sweet Escott. Along with his brothers, he was a strong football and cricket player during his youth. He was educated at Dulwich College, and joined Guy's Hospital as a student in 1891. While at Guy's, Hancock took an active part in the establishment's sporting clubs, playing as part of the tennis team throughout his time there, and captaining the team in 1892. He also captained the rugby football team in 1893 and 1894, and was one of the hospital's prominent cricketers.\n\nIn 1896 he qualified as a surgeon, gaining the dual qualifications M.R.C.S and L.R.C.P.. He became a fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons two years later in 1898. He specialised in ophthalmic work, and worked at for a time at the Royal Westminster Ophthalmic Hospital. At the time of his death, he was Assistant Surgeon for the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital, Moorfields and Ophthalmic Surgeon for the East London Hospital for Children, and Bolingbroke Hospital. He had earlier served as Senior Assistant Surgeon and Pathologist for the Central London Ophthalmic Hospital. His obituary in the \"British Medical Journal\" describes Hancock as genial and loyal, and predicted that \"had he lived, would doubtless have taken a very prominent place in the profession.\"\n\nHancock played one first-class cricket match for Somerset in 1892. He also represented his county at tennis, and in his \"British Medical Journal\" obituary it is claimed that he would have gained international honours in rugby had it not been for a knee injury.\n\nHis brother Philip Froude Hancock made ten international appearances in international rugby for England and Britain, and another, Frank Hancock captained Wales in the same sport. Of the ten brothers, seven, including William, played rugby union for Somerset. His nephew, Frank Hancock's son Ralph, played cricket for Somerset in nine matches between 1907 and 1914.\n\nHancock married Margaret Hay Sweet Escott in 1899 and the couple had four children. He suffered from abdominal pain for 18 months, which in December 1909 became worse and he was forced to rest in bed for four weeks. Initially the symptoms appeared to have faded, but the acute pain returned, and Hancock required an operation for appendicitis. The operation was successful, and Hancock was making a good recovery until four days later. He died of pulmonary embolism and thrombosis the following day.\n"}
