{"id": "26710562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26710562", "title": "6-15-99 Club", "text": "6-15-99 Club\n\nThe 6-15-99 Club was an organization dedicated to assisting the plight of the poor in New York City in the 1890s. The group formed branch clubs in stores, factories, and banks, expanding at a rapid rate. Employed members were expected to contribute between a penny and two and a half cents to the club daily. William De Hertburn (W. d'H.) Washington, of 145 Broadway, and prominent Manhattan businessmen envisioned raising around $13,000 daily. Isidor Straus, Oswald Ottendorfer, and former New York City mayor Franklin Edson were proponents of the 6-15-99 Club.\n\nIn February 1894 plans were being made to open a 6-15-99 store at 14th Street near 5th Avenue. This site was to be used as an office intended to find employment for persons who desired to work. Tasks assigned to job seekers included furniture repair and basic carpentry work. The 6-15-99 Club asked that persons who needed such services, make their requests either at the 14th Street store or at 145 Broadway. An additional store was anticipated to open at 125th Street. By April 1894 there were 270 branches of the 6-15-99 Club.\n\nBy early 1894 the 6-15-99 Club had secured employment for a number of women who worked making quality garments for children. Sizable\nretail stores accepted the items manufactured by the women, so that a portion of the work performed by the 6-15-99 Club was self-supporting. The free labor bureau of the 6-15-99 Club obtained work for 105 applicants in one week.\n\nAccording to a periodical from 1894, the 6-15-99 Club was one of seven contemporary and highly advertised funds for the temporary relief of the destitute. The others were those organized by Tammany Hall, New York City officials and employees, the World's Bread Fund, the \"New York Herald\"'s Free Clothing Fund, the Christian Herald Fund, and the \"New York Tribune\" Coal and Food Fund.\n\nIn 1894, the \"Journal of Social Science\" questioned the sincerity of the funds, stating that they were \"managed at the caprice of their projectors\", and stated that the City of New York made no increase in its appropriations to its Board of Charities and Correction in 1894, except for a small amount for coal. However, it reported that the city possessed funds totaling $2,414,283 which could have been provided to needy persons in most years. If distributed among the 50,000 people who qualified for relief, this would have averaged out to $48.30 per person. The totals took into account half of the migrant and homeless people which the journal described as \"exceptional excess\" for 1894.\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "13495738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13495738", "title": "AIDS Housing Association of Tacoma", "text": "AIDS Housing Association of Tacoma\n\nAIDS Housing Association of Tacoma (AHAT) is a 501(c)3 non-profit corporation founded in 1989 with assistance of members of Christ Church Episcopal of Tacoma and community volunteers. AHAT provides safe, alternative housing and services for people with HIV/AIDS in Pierce County and Kitsap County, Washington.\n\nAHAT (formerly known as Three Cedars) operates the only housing facilities for stage IV HIV/AIDS individuals south of King County to the Oregon border. The organization maintains three separate facilities; locations are kept anonymous for residents' privacy and security.\n\nAHAT is a member of the Ryan White Consortium for Region V and the Coalition for the Homeless in Pierce County.\n\nCity, state and federal grants comprise the nonprofit's $530,000 budget. The organization employees ten staff. The executive director is David Strong.\n\n"}
{"id": "20859549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20859549", "title": "Abortion in Peru", "text": "Abortion in Peru\n\nAbortion in Peru is illegal except in case of a threat to the life or health of the woman. A woman who consents to an abortion can be sentenced to up to two years in prison. A person who performs an illegal abortion can be sentenced to one to six years in prison.\n\nAbortion has been generally illegal in Peru since 1924.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13245803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13245803", "title": "Albanian sworn virgins", "text": "Albanian sworn virgins\n\nThe Albanian sworn virgins () are Albanian women who take a vow of chastity and wear male clothing in order to live as men in the patriarchal northern Albanian society. National Geographic's \"Taboo\" estimated that there are fewer than 102 sworn virgins in the world.\n\nOther terms for the sworn virgin include \"vajzë e betuar\" (most common today, and used in situations in which the parents make the decision when the girl is a baby or child), \"mashkull\" (present-day, used around Shkodra), \"virgjineshë\", \"virgjereshë\", \"verginesa\", \"virgjin\", \"vergjinesha\", \"Albanian virgin\", \"avowed virgin\", \"sadik\" (Turkish: honest, just).\n\nThe tradition of sworn virgins in Albania developed out of the \"Kanuni i Lekë Dukagjinit\" (, or simply the \"Kanun\"), a set of codes and laws developed by Lekë Dukagjini and used mostly in northern Albania and Kosovo from the 15th century until the 20th century. The \"Kanun\" is not a religious document – many groups follow it, including Albanian Orthodox, Catholics and Muslims.\n\nThe \"Kanun\" dictates that families must be patrilineal (meaning wealth is inherited through a family's men) and patrilocal (upon marriage, a woman moves into the household of her husband's family). Women are treated like property of the family. Under the \"Kanun\" women are stripped of many rights. They cannot smoke, wear a watch, or vote in their local elections. They cannot buy land, and there are many jobs they are not permitted to hold. There are also establishments that they cannot enter.\n\nThe practice of sworn virginhood was first reported by missionaries, travelers, geographers and anthropologists who visited the mountains of northern Albania in the 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nA woman becomes a sworn virgin by swearing an irrevocable oath, in front of twelve village or tribal elders, to practice celibacy. Then she is allowed to live as a man and may dress in male clothes, use a male name, carry a gun, smoke, drink alcohol, take on male work, act as the head of a household (for example, living with a sister or mother), play music and sing, and sit and talk socially with men.\n\nA woman can become a sworn virgin at any age, either to satisfy her parents or herself.\n\nThe sworn virgin is believed to be the only formal, socially defined trans masculine transgender and cross-dressing role in Europe. Similar practices occurred in some societies of indigenous peoples of the Americas.\n\nBreaking the vow was once punishable by death, but it is doubtful that this punishment is still carried out. Many sworn virgins today still refuse to go back on their oath because their community would reject them for breaking the vows. However, it is sometimes possible to take back the vows if the sworn virgin has finished her obligations to the family and the reasons or motivations which lead her to take the vow no longer exist.\n\nThere are many reasons why a woman would have wanted to take this vow, and observers have recorded a variety of motivations. One woman said she became a sworn virgin in order to not be separated from her father, and another in order to live and work with her sister. Some hoped to avoid a specific unwanted marriage, and others hoped to avoid marriage in general.\n\nBecoming a sworn virgin was the only way for women whose families had committed them as children to an arranged marriage to refuse to fulfil it, without dishonouring the groom's family and risking \"gjakmarrja\" (blood feud). It was the only way a woman could inherit her family's wealth, which was particularly important in a society in which blood feuds resulted in the deaths of many male Albanians, leaving many families without male heirs. (However, anthropologist Mildred Dickemann suggests this motive may be \"over-pat\", pointing out that a non-child-bearing woman would have no heirs to inherit after her, and also that in some families not one but several daughters became sworn virgins, and in others the later birth of a brother did not end the sworn virgin's masculine role.) It is also likely that many women chose to become sworn virgins simply because it afforded them much more freedom than would otherwise have been available in a patrilineal culture in which women were secluded, sex-segregated, required to be virgins before marriage and faithful afterwards, betrothed as children and married by sale without their consent, continually bearing and raising children, constantly physically labouring, and always required to defer to men, particularly their husbands and fathers, and submit to being beaten.\n\nSworn virgins could also participate in blood feuds. If a sworn virgin was killed in a blood feud her death counted as a full life for the purposes of calculating blood money, rather than the half a life ordinarily accorded for a female death.\n\nDickemann suggests their mothers may have played an important role in persuading women to become sworn virgins. A widow without sons has traditionally had few options in Albania: she could return to her birth family, stay on as a servant in the family of her deceased husband, or remarry. With a son or surrogate son, she could live out her life in the home of her adulthood, in the company of her child. Murray quotes testimony recorded by René Gremaux: \"Because if you get married I'll be left alone, but if you stay with me, I'll have a son.\" On hearing those words Djurdja [the daughter] \"threw down her embroidery\" and became a man.\n\nThe practice has died out in Dalmatia and Bosnia, but is still carried out in northern Albania and to a lesser extent in Macedonia.\n\nThe Socialist People's Republic of Albania did not encourage women to become sworn virgins. Women started gaining legal rights and came closer to having equal social status, especially in the central and southern regions. It is only in the northern region that many families are still traditionally patriarchal. Currently there are between forty and several hundred sworn virgins left in Albania, and a few in neighboring countries. Most are over fifty years old. It used to be believed that the sworn virgins had all but died out after 50 years of communism in Albania, but recent research suggests that may not be the case; instead, the increase in feuding following the collapse of the communist regime could encourage a resurgence of the practice.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58022707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58022707", "title": "Alex Guerrero (alternative medicine)", "text": "Alex Guerrero (alternative medicine)\n\nAlejandro \"Alex\" Guerrero (born 1965) is an American alternative medicine practitioner and alkaline diet advocate. He is best known for his infomercials that contained false health claims and his work with professional football players including Tom Brady and other members of the New England Patriots.\n\nGuerrero received a master's degree in traditional Chinese medicine from Samra University in Los Angeles, California, an institution that closed in 2010 after the state of California dissolved the Bureau of Private Postsecondary and Vocational Education board in 2007, which had provided the school's accreditation.\n\nAfter graduating, Guerrero opened his own health treatment practice in 1996, and soon began working with individual professional athletes.\n\nIn 2004, Guerrero wrote a book called \"In Balance for Life: Understanding & Maximizing Your Body's pH Factor\". The book promoted what he called a \"nutritional supplement program that will take your health to the next level\", with a \"14-Day Diet Plan to quick-start your journey to vibrant vitality\". In the book, he said the principles of the program were \"easy to understand, and even easier to implement\", and said \"In fact, the principles that support it have been scientifically verified time and time again by researchers throughout the world. For the most part, however, they remain all but ignored by conventional and alternative health-care providers alike. As a result, our society is increasingly burdened with health-care problems.\" The book referred to \"the important role that the pH Factor plays in health and overall balance of the body\" and said that \"unhealthy pH levels―a disruption of proper acid-alkaline balance―are at the root of all disease conditions\".\n\nIn 2005, Guerrero was sanctioned by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission for falsely presenting himself as a doctor and claiming to be able to cure cancer, AIDS, multiple sclerosis, heart disease, diabetes, arthritis, and Parkinson's disease using a dietary supplement called \"Supreme Greens\". He had made these claims in infomercials on Spike TV and the Women's Entertainment channel. He claimed to have conducted extensive scientific studies of the benefits of his program with 200 patients that had been diagnosed as terminally ill before his treatments, but he later admitted that no such studies existed. The FTC fined him and barred him for life from ever again presenting himself as a doctor or from ever again marketing Supreme Greens or any substantially similar product as an effective treatment for any disease. Barrie Cassileth, Ph.D., the founder of the Integrative Medicine Service at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, who helped in the FTC investigation, referred to his practices as \"just out and out quackery\". She said that a major danger of such useless treatments is that they may delay patients from seeking proper evidence-based medical care, and that \"this is fatal for many patients\". She said \"The organizations and people who make these claims and produce these false treatments really are doing something horrific.\"\n\nHe later founded a new company called 6 Degree Nutrition, which marketed various nutritional supplements including a product called Neurosafe. Neurosafe was called \"a seatbelt for your brain\", and was claimed to protect its users \"from the consequences of sports-related traumatic brain injury\". The product was advertised as being endorsed by prominent professional football players that had experienced concussions, with a claim that \"When used consistently, NeuroSafe helps to dramatically improve recovery from head trauma by providing the brain the nutrients it needs to repair itself.\" Wes Welker, a wide receiver who had suffered repeated concussions, was quoted as saying \"NeuroSafe is essential. It keeps me safe. I've seen what concussions do to people. With NeuroSafe I know it's protecting what my helmet can't.\" Champion quarterback Tom Brady was quoted saying \"NeuroSafe makes me feel comfortable that if I get a concussion I can recover faster and more fully. There is no other solution on the market today that can do what NeuroSafe does. It's that extra level of protection that gives me comfort when I'm out on the field.\" The FTC intervened again in 2012, reaching a settlement with Guerrero that resulted in closure of the company and the cessation of the marketing of the product.\n\n\"The Boston Globe\" reported that Guerrero also had \"a long history of financial troubles, bankruptcies, and legal entanglements\". He was sued twice for allegedly defrauding investors in his health product business enterprises of hundreds of thousands of dollars in investment funds, and resolved the cases with settlements under undisclosed terms.\n\nGuerrero has treated a number of professional football players, and is especially closely associated with Tom Brady, a quarterback for the New England Patriots. Brady refers to Guerrero as his \"body coach\" and \"body engineer\", and has said Guerrero \"has been a huge part of what I do\" and is a \"huge, huge reason why I'm still playing\". In addition to Brady, Guerrero has worked with nearly every player for the Patriots, particularly including Danny Amendola, Jacoby Brissett, Julian Edelman, Jimmy Garoppolo, Rob Gronkowski, Duron Harmon, Chris Hogan, Ty Law, and Willie McGinest. \nIn December 2017, it was estimated that Guerrero was treating about 20 of the current Patriots players. The dietary and training techniques espoused by Guerrero and Brady have also been influential with other NFL players outside of the Patriots.\nAs in Guerrero's 2004 book, aspects of Guerrero's dietary guidelines are phrased in terms of pH balance, with Brady saying he has a primarily alkaline diet that is 80 percent alkaline and 20 percent acidic. The diet is mostly vegan while avoiding foods that are claimed to cause inflammation, including tomatoes, peppers, mushrooms, and eggplants.\n\nEarlier in his career, Guerrero also worked with LaDainian Tomlinson and Keenan McCardell of the San Diego Chargers.\n\nGuerrero and Brady have become collaborators and business partners in various ventures branded as \"TB12\" (with \"TB\" being the initials for Tom Brady, and 12 his jersey number as a player for the Patriots). Together they created a peak performance website TB12Sports.com and opened a facility in 2013 called the TB12 Sports Therapy Center next to Gillette Stadium, the home of the New England Patriots. Guerrero helped Brady develop a health program that Brady wrote about in a 2017 book, \"The TB12 Method\". Guerrero and Brady also developed \"The TB12 Nutrition Manual\", a line of TB12-branded snacks, protein bars, and prepared meals, and a line of TB12 workout gear and clothing (including \"recovery pajamas\" that are said to help the wearer recover from physical exertion and trauma). The practices of Guerrero and the TB12 Center were investigated by several Massachusetts state agencies in 2013, but the agencies took no enforcement action, partly due to regulatory exceptions granted for work that was considered massage therapy. In 2014, after an allegation that he was practicing physical therapy without a license, he was sent a letter instructing him to abide by state regulations when supervising the work of licensed therapists.\n\nAlthough Guerrero has treated many members of the New England Patriots, there has been substantial friction with the Patriots' management and training staff over his involvement, and in December 2017, the head coach Bill Belichick and the Patriots staff stripped Guerrero of many of his team privileges.\n\nDr. Jessica Flynn, a specialist in sports medicine at the Lahey Hospital & Medical Center, criticized Guerrero's practices in 2017, saying that although she truly believes \"there is a lot of good going on at TB12\", she is troubled that Guerrero has implied that doctors don't really care about the functional outcomes for their athletic patients. In an otherwise-positive account of one writer's experience, Guerrero had reportedly told his patient that \"your surgeon's number one goal is to protect his surgery site. He doesn't care if you ever run again. He doesn't care if you want to climb Mount Everest.\" Moreover, Flynn said she is concerned that at TB12 \"they continue to profit from non-proven treatments, supplements, and other therapies and none of those profits seem to be invested in studying their efficacy.\" She said \"Guerrero functions in a different world than doctors. He doesn't have to prove his therapies work, or even that they are safe.\"\n\nIn an article on the sports website \"Deadspin\", the sports writer Tom Ley used even more harsh language. He called Guerrero a \"dangerous quack guru\" and said \"In a just world, Guerrero would be shunned from public life and quickly identified as a scam artist who has preyed on desperate and even dying people when making any attempt to present himself as a credible fitness guru.\"\n\nIn July 2018, Guerrero became the subject of inquiries about his association with the receiver Julian Edelman, and Edelman's suspension for using performance-enhancing drugs. Guerrero issued a statement saying \"Here at our facility, we take a natural, holistic, appropriate and, above all, legal approach to training and recovery for all of our clients. And anyone who would suggest otherwise is irresponsible, and just plain wrong.\" When a reporter said to Brady that a lot of people thought Edelman's violation might be connected to Guerrero, Brady said \"It's just ridiculous. I'm out. See you guys,\" and abruptly ended the press conference. Brady reacted similarly a month later when asked about Guerrero in late August. During a weekly interview segment that Brady regularly held with WEEI radio, Brady was asked about whether Guerrero was traveling with the team and about the relationship between Guerrero and team management. Brady said he didn't want to talk in detail about the topic, and when the reporter asked follow-up questions, he said \"Yeah. Alright, guys. Have a great day. I'll talk to you later,\" and hung up the phone.\n"}
{"id": "32293536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32293536", "title": "Anne O'Tate", "text": "Anne O'Tate\n\nAnne O'Tate is a free, web-based application that analyses sets of records identified on PubMed, the bibliographic database of articles from over 5,500 biomedical journals worldwide. While PubMed has its own wide range of search options to identify sets of records relevant to a researchers query it lacks the ability to analyse these sets of records further, a process for which the terms text mining and drill down have been used. Anne O'Tate is able to perform such analysis and can process sets of up to 25,000 PubMed records.\n\nOnce a set of articles has been identified using Anne O’Tate with its PubMed-like interface and search syntax, the set can be analysed and words and concepts mentioned in specific 'fields' (sections) of PubMed records can be displayed in order of frequency. ‘Fields’ which Anne O’Tate can display in this manner are:\n\nThis option may help to identify possible Medical Subject Headings (known as MeSH terms, but called ‘Topics’ by Anne O’Tate) for a subject for which no corresponding subject heading or ‘entry term’ (cross-references to preferred MeSH term) exists or where PubMed’s automatic mapping process (identifying a MeSH term and including it in a search formulation) fails.\n\nSearching for instance for articles on ‘“Knowledge Transfer”’ (for which no correspending MeSH or entry term exists) will retrieve a set of some 530 studies in PubMed (as of August 2011); Anne O’Tate’s analysis suggests that MeSH terms like \"Diffusion of Innovation\" or \"Information Dissemination\" may be suitable additional concepts to retrieve a more ‘sensitive’ (comprehensive) set of references. This method of identifying possible MeSH terms is not available on PubMed.\n\nThis option may help with identifying authors who have written frequently about a given subject, or may help with identifying possible experts or peer reviewers\n\nIdentifying journals which publish papers on the subject under investigation may assist with selecting suitable journals to consider for manuscripts or for detailed scanning for relevant articles ('hand searching') not found by the search on PubMed.\n\nAuthor affiliations (addresses) and the years of publication can also be analysed. ‘Important words’ from titles and abstracts which may \"[...] have more frequent occurrences in the result subset than in the MEDLINE as a whole, thus they distinguish the result subset from the rest of MEDLINE\" can be identified and help with further refining a search on PubMed.\n\nAnne O'Tate (a pun on the word ‘annotate’) was developed by Neil R Smalheiser and a team of researchers from the University of Chicago. It is part of the Arrowsmith Project, which developed tools such as “Arrowsmith” proper, a text-comparison application, \"Adam\", a database of medical abbreviations, and ‘’Author-ity’’ (an author-disambiguation tool), \"Compendium\", a list of biomedical text mining tools, and Anne O’Tate. The Project is based on research led by Don R. Swanson at the University of Chicago which hosted the original tool.\nFurther research was led by Neil R. Smalheiser at the University of Illinois at Chicago, with funding from the National Institutes of Health.\n\nA wide range of text-mining applications for PubMed have been developed, using their own interface, such as GoPubMed, ClusterMed, or PubReMiner. Only Anne O’Tate uses PubMed’s standard interface, search syntax, and some of its functionality.\n\n"}
{"id": "54817593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54817593", "title": "Anti inflammatory agents in breast milk", "text": "Anti inflammatory agents in breast milk\n\nThe anti-inflammatory components in breast milk are those bioactive substances that confer or increase the anti-inflammatory response in a breastfeeding infant.\n"}
{"id": "9309176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9309176", "title": "Autism Sunday", "text": "Autism Sunday\n\nAutism Sunday, also known as the International Day of Prayer for autism spectrum disorders, is an event observed annually on the second Sunday of February.\n\nAutism Sunday was first held in 2002 during Autism Awareness Year in the United Kingdom. It was initiated by parents and carers Ivan Corea and Charika Corea, founders of the Autism Awareness Campaign UK. Parents of Charin, a teenager with autism spectrum disorder and a communication disorder, they urged leaders of religious organisations, churches, community groups and world leaders around the globe to speak up for people with autism spectrum disorders.\nThe first service for autism was held in February 2002 at St Paul's Cathedral in London. Former Education Ministers, peers from the House of Lords, celebrities, writers, broadcasters, and the media joined children and people at St Paul's Cathedral to pray for children and adults with autism spectrum disorders, as well as their parents and caregivers.\n\nIn 2008, the first Early Day Motion on Autism Sunday was tabled in the House of Commons, in the Palace of Westminster. The motion, EDM 874, was sponsored by David Drew MP and signed by 71 members of Parliament. It calls on the Government to work with all faith communities in order to reach out to parents, caregivers and people with autism spectrum disorders in local communities, and urges church leaders and community groups of all denominations to engage with people with autism spectrum disorders. The British Prime Minister, David Cameron extended his personal support for Autism Sunday.\n\nAutism Sunday was mentioned in a debate in the House of Commons in the British Parliament. David Taylor MP mentioned the day and called for action stating that the \"Churches and other religious organisations will be supporting an international day of prayer for those with autism and Asperger's syndrome. Will the Leader of the House take this as a bid as a topical debate on the issue, which affects hundreds of thousands of people throughout the country? The conditions are under-recognised and under-resourced and they badly need a national strategy, a national task force and a well resourced plan for the future.\" \n\nIn reply, the Leader of the Commons,(at the time) Harriet Harman MP said: \"For many years, families have struggled to support and care for children with autism, often to a great extent on their own and without the proper back-up of integrated services. There is now a great deal more awareness of the difficulties of autism and Asperger’s syndrome, and a recognition of the importance of early diagnosis and integrated services. I congratulate the Churches on picking this for an international day of prayer, and we would like to work with the Churches, local government and the voluntary sector to ensure that families with a family member who develops autism or Asperger’s have the backing that they need in future.\" \n\nChurches of all denominations around the world now honor the millions of people with autism on Autism Sunday, the International Day of Prayer for autism spectrum disorders. Organisers estimate there are 60 million people with autism around the world. Campaigners have said that many suffer without proper public services in education, health, specialist speech therapy and respite care in several parts of the world, particularly in Africa and Asia. The credit crunch and the global recession which hit many countries in 2008-2009 also affected the Autism Community. In the UK, people were concerned about the cuts to disability benefits and cuts to public services. Homes were re-possessed during the economic downturn and some families below the poverty line had to choose between heating and eating. \n\nWorld church leaders have been supporting Autism Sunday. Pope Benedict XVI told the organisers that he would be praying for the autism community on Autism Sunday. Some of the largest churches in the United States, including Rick Warren's Saddleback Church, have pledged to pray for over 60 million people with autism spectrum disorders on Autism Sunday. Support came from the Bishop of London in the United Kingdom, Rt.Rev.Richard Chartres.\n\nThe organizers have urged parents, carers and the worldwide Autism Community to use no Autism Sunday as a platform to lobby and campaign on the serious issues. Support for Autism Sunday 2011 came from the Chilean Miner, Jose Henriquez, the 24th miner to be rescued from the San Jose mine. Henriquez was invited by US President Barack Obama to address the Presidential Prayer Breakfast in February 2011. He met Ivan Corea and Charika Corea, the Founders of Autism Sunday in the UK, prior to his departure to Washington, D.C. They presented him with his first-ever autism awareness ribbon. The news of the presentation was relayed by the media in Chile. Jose Henriquez released a special message in support of Autism Sunday 2011.\n\nCampaigners around the world organized an Autism Sunday Twitter Storm to mark Autism Sunday 2011 - to celebrate the lives of all people with autism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56124300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56124300", "title": "Cannabis in Jordan", "text": "Cannabis in Jordan\n\nCannabis in Jordan is illegal.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, Jordan (then Trans-Jordan) was noted as a smuggling route, carrying hashish from Turkey, Iran, Lebanon, and Syria into Egypt. In 1937 the total of all drugs seized in Jordan was just 6 kilograms of hashish. Sherif Nasser, uncle of the king of Jordan, was credibly implicated in cannabis smuggling.\n"}
{"id": "31849555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31849555", "title": "Carol Keehan", "text": "Carol Keehan\n\nSister Carol Keehan, D.C. is a member of the Daughters of Charity of Saint Vincent de Paul and the CEO of the Catholic Health Association of the United States (CHA).\n\nIn 2005 Keehan became the ninth President and CEO of CHA, overseeing all activities of the organization. There are 620 hospitals affiliated with CHA.\n\nShe was awarded the Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice (Cross for the Church and Pontiff) by Pope Benedict XVI. For her dedication to \"carrying on the healing ministry of Jesus Christ\" she was named one of Time Magazine's 100 Most Influential People in the World for 2010.\n\nShe is a member of the Board of Trustees at St. John's University in New York.\n"}
{"id": "330675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=330675", "title": "Chicago Tylenol murders", "text": "Chicago Tylenol murders\n\nThe Chicago Tylenol murders were a series of poisoning deaths resulting from drug tampering in the Chicago metropolitan area in 1982. The victims had all taken Tylenol-branded acetaminophen capsules that had been laced with potassium cyanide. A total of seven people died in the original poisonings, with several more deaths in subsequent copycat crimes.\n\nThese incidents led to reforms in the packaging of over-the-counter substances and to federal anti-tampering laws. The actions of Johnson & Johnson to reduce deaths and warn the public of poisoning risks have been widely praised as an exemplary public relations response to such a crisis.\n\nNo suspect was ever charged or convicted of the poisonings. New York City resident James William Lewis was considered the prime suspect, and was convicted of extortion for sending a letter to Johnson & Johnson that took credit for the deaths and demanded $1 million to stop them.\n\nOn September 29, 1982, twelve-year-old Mary Kellerman of Elk Grove Village, Illinois, died after taking a capsule of Extra-Strength Tylenol. Adam Janus of Arlington Heights, Illinois, died in the hospital later that day after ingesting Tylenol; his brother Stanley and sister-in-law Theresa, of Lisle, Illinois, later also died after taking Tylenol from the same bottle. Within the next few days, Mary McFarland of Elmhurst, Illinois, Paula Prince of Chicago, and Mary Reiner of Winfield all died in similar incidents. Once it was realized that all these people had recently taken Tylenol, tests were carried out which showed cyanide present in the bottles from which the victims had taken the Tylenol. Warnings were issued via the media, and patrols using loudspeakers warned residents throughout the Chicago metropolitan area to discontinue use of Tylenol products.\n\nPolice, knowing that various sources of Tylenol were tampered with, ruled out manufacturers, as the tampered-with bottles came from different pharmaceutical companies—and the seven deaths had all occurred in the Chicago area, so sabotage during production was ruled out. Instead, police concluded that they were likely looking for a culprit who was believed to have acquired bottles of Tylenol from various retail outlets. Furthermore, they concluded the source was most likely supermarkets and drug stores, over a period of several weeks, with the culprit likely adding the cyanide to the capsules, then methodically returning to the stores to place the bottles back on the shelves. In addition to the five bottles that led to the victims' deaths, three other tampered-with bottles were later discovered.\n\nIn a concerted effort to reassure the public, Johnson & Johnson distributed warnings to hospitals and distributors and halted Tylenol production and advertising. On October 5, 1982, it issued a nationwide recall of Tylenol products; an estimated 31 million bottles were in circulation, with a retail value of over US $100 million ($267 million in 2018). The company also advertised in the national media for individuals not to consume any of its products that contained acetaminophen after it was determined that only these capsules had been tampered with. Johnson & Johnson offered to exchange all Tylenol capsules already purchased by the public for solid tablets.\n\nDuring the initial investigations, a man named James William Lewis sent a letter to Johnson & Johnson demanding $1 million to stop the cyanide-induced murders. Police were unable to link him with the crimes, as he and his wife were living in New York City at the time. He was convicted of extortion, served 13 years of a 20-year sentence, and was released in 1995 on parole. WCVB Channel 5 of Boston reported that court documents, released in early 2009, \"show Department of Justice investigators concluded Lewis was responsible for the poisonings, despite the fact that they did not have enough evidence to charge him\". Lewis has consistently denied all responsibility for the poisonings for several years.\n\nA second man, Roger Arnold, was investigated and cleared of the killings. He had a nervous breakdown due to the media attention, which he blamed on Marty Sinclair, a bar owner. In the summer of 1983, Arnold shot and killed John Stanisha, whom he mistook for Sinclair. Stanisha was an unrelated man who did not know Arnold. Arnold was convicted in January 1984 and served 15 years of a 30-year sentence for second-degree murder. He died in June 2008.\n\nIn early 1983, at the FBI's request, \"Chicago Tribune\" columnist Bob Greene published the address and grave location of the first and youngest victim, Mary Kellerman. The story, written with the Kellerman family's consent, was proposed by FBI criminal analyst John Douglas on the theory that the perpetrator might visit the house or gravesite if he were made aware of their locations. Both sites were kept under 24-hour surveillance for several months, but the killer did not surface.\n\nLaurie Dann, who poisoned and shot people in a May 1988 rampage in and around Winnetka, Illinois, was briefly considered as a suspect, but no direct connection was found.\n\nIn early January 2009, Illinois authorities renewed the investigation. Federal agents searched the home of Lewis in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and seized a number of items. In Chicago, an FBI spokesman declined to comment but said \"we'll have something to release later possibly\". Law enforcement officials have received a number of tips related to the case coinciding with its anniversary. In a written statement, the FBI explained,\nThis review was prompted, in part, by the recent 25th anniversary of this crime and the resulting publicity. Further, given the many recent advances in forensic technology, it was only natural that a second look be taken at the case and recovered evidence.\nIn January 2010, both Lewis and his wife submitted DNA samples and fingerprints to authorities. Lewis stated \"if the FBI plays it fair, I have nothing to worry about\".\n\nOn May 19, 2011, the FBI requested DNA samples from \"Unabomber\" Ted Kaczynski in connection to the Tylenol murders. Kaczynski denied having ever possessed potassium cyanide. The first four Unabomber crimes happened in Chicago and its suburbs from 1978 to 1980, and Kaczynski's parents had a suburban Chicago home in Lombard, Illinois, in 1982, where he stayed occasionally.\n\nHundreds of copycat attacks involving Tylenol, other over-the-counter medications, and other products also took place around the United States immediately following the Chicago deaths. \n\nThree more deaths occurred in 1986 from tampered gelatin capsules. A woman died in Yonkers, New York, after ingesting \"Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules laced with cyanide\". Excedrin capsules in Washington state were tampered with, resulting in the deaths of Susan Snow and Bruce Nickell from cyanide poisoning and the eventual arrest and conviction of Nickell's wife, Stella, of crimes connected to both deaths. That same year, Procter & Gamble's Encaprin was recalled after a spiking hoax in Chicago and Detroit that resulted in a precipitous sales drop and a withdrawal of the pain reliever from the market.\n\nJohnson & Johnson received positive coverage for its handling of the crisis; for example, an article in \"The Washington Post\" said, \"Johnson & Johnson has effectively demonstrated how a major business ought to handle a disaster\". The article further stated that \"this is no Three Mile Island accident in which the company's response did more damage than the original incident\", and applauded the company for being honest with the public. In addition to issuing the recall, the company established relations with the Chicago Police Department, the FBI, and the Food and Drug Administration. This way it could have a part in searching for the person who laced the capsules and they could help prevent further tamperings. While at the time of the scare the company's market share collapsed from thirty-five percent to eight percent, it rebounded in less than a year, a move credited to the company's prompt and aggressive reaction. In November, it reintroduced capsules but in a new, triple-sealed package, coupled with heavy price promotions and within several years, Tylenol had the highest market share for the over-the-counter analgesic in the U.S.\n\nThe 1982 incident inspired the pharmaceutical, food, and consumer product industries to develop tamper-resistant packaging, such as induction seals and improved quality control methods. Moreover, product tampering was made a federal crime. The new laws resulted in Stella Nickell's conviction in the Excedrin tampering case, for which she was sentenced to ninety years in prison.\n\nAdditionally, the incident prompted the pharmaceutical industry to move away from capsules, which were easy to contaminate as a foreign substance could be placed inside without obvious signs of tampering. Within the year, the FDA introduced more stringent regulations to avoid product tampering. This led to the eventual replacement of the capsule with the solid \"caplet\", a tablet made in the shape of a capsule, as a drug delivery form and with the addition of tamper-evident safety-seals to bottles of many sorts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1022817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022817", "title": "Dactylitis", "text": "Dactylitis\n\nDactylitis or sausage digit is inflammation of an entire digit (a finger or toe), and can be painful.\n\nThe word dactyl comes from the Greek word \"daktylos\" meaning \"finger\". In its medical term, it refers to both the fingers and the toes.\n\nDactylitis can occur in seronegative arthropathies, such as psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis, and in sickle-cell disease as result of a vasoocclusive crisis with bone infarcts, and in infectious conditions including tuberculosis, syphilis, and leprosy. In reactive arthritis, sausage fingers occur due to synovitis. Dactylitis may also be seen with sarcoidosis.\n\nIn sickle-cell disease it is manifested for the first time between 6-9 month old infants (as their protective fetal hemoglobin, HbF, is replaced with adult hemoglobin and the disease manifests) and is very often the presenting sign of the disorder.\n"}
{"id": "770065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=770065", "title": "Diana Prince", "text": "Diana Prince\n\nPrincess Diana is a fictional character appearing regularly in stories published by DC Comics, as the secret identity of the Amazonian superhero Wonder Woman, who bought the credentials and identity from a United States Army nurse named Diana Prince who went to South America and married her fiancé to become Diana White. The character debuted in \"Sensation Comics\" #1 (January 1942) and was created by Charles Moulton and H. G. Peter.\n\nThe fictional career of Diana Prince evolved over the years, from the original Army nurse to becoming a military intelligence officer (promoted to higher ranks), then later a civilian employee, businesswoman, astronaut, or staff member at the United Nations, etc. In the TV series \"Wonder Woman\" she was a WAVES yeoman in the 1940s. Although originally possessing the powers of Wonder Woman at all times, Diana Prince later lost the powers when in her secret identity, and during the 1960s, Wonder Woman lost her powers and functioned only as a non-powered Diana Prince in other adventures.\n\nThrough the popularity of her Wonder Woman secret identity, the personality, concept, and name of Diana Prince have become ingrained in popular culture, becoming synonymous with secret identities and innocuous fronts for ulterior motives and activities.\n\nFirst written in the earliest \"Wonder Woman\" comics, Diana Prince's role was multifaceted. Unlike the Superman secret identity of Clark Kent, who was originally little more than a front for Superman's activities, and who adopted a passive \"mild-mannered\" persona to conceal his underlying strength, Prince's identity functioned both to position Wonder Woman so that she could learn of situations requiring her intervention and to allow the character to embody feminist and other ideals espoused by Charles Moulton. For example, Diana Prince was originally a nurse and then an officer in military intelligence, starting in the typical woman's role of secretary but gradually earning more autonomy, including the authority to interrogate espionage suspects, eventually becoming an intelligence officer in her own right and, over the years, rising from Lieutenant to Major. Although Diana Prince was frequently told not to accompany Trevor at pivotal moments of adventures because it was \"no place for a woman\", Diana was actually the most competent person to tackle a crisis, whether by exercising her knowledge as Diana Prince or her power as Wonder Woman, riding with an all-girl cavalry of Etta Candy and the Beeta Lambda sorority. During the 1960s, Wonder Woman lost her powers and functioned exclusively as a non-powered Diana Prince who nonetheless experienced high adventure as a Modesty Blaise-type character.\n\nDiana Prince was originally the name of a U.S. Army nurse during World War II who provided the primary alias for Princess Diana (Wonder Woman) of the Amazons. In January 1942, Princess Diana met Diana Prince, who was sobbing. When Wonder Woman asked her what was wrong, Prince explained that her fiancé, Dan White, was in South America and she lacked the funds to go to him. Noticing how similar they were in appearance, Wonder Woman gave Prince a large amount of money she had just earned from Al Kale's promotion of her bullets and bracelets routine; in exchange, Prince gave Wonder Woman her credentials and name. She later saved Steve from Axis forces.\n\nWhen Steve Trevor had fully recovered from injuries sustained in his crash landing on Paradise Island and returned to duty at the Office of Strategic Services, Wonder Woman followed him, pursuing a job as secretary. Maj. Trevor already had a secretary of his own, Lila Brown, but Diana Prince successfully obtained a job as Col. Phil Darnell's secretary. Darnell noted that Diana, as an Army nurse, had the rank of 2nd Lieutenant. For a while, Lila was suspicious of Lt. Diana Prince, who did not seem to use any known system of shorthand when taking dictation (because Diana was actually relying on her own superior Amazon-trained eidetic memory) and did not seem to operate as a normal secretary would. Diana learned, to her dismay, that although she was now working alongside Steve Trevor, he only had eyes for Wonder Woman.\n\nThe real Diana Prince returned in September 1942, seeking out Wonder Woman. She asked for her identity back so that she could find work to help out her inventor husband Daniel White and their infant child. Wonder Woman agreed, and even impersonated her, so her husband would not know she was getting a job, but soon after, Nazi spies kidnapped Diana and planned to ransom her for one of her husband's inventions, an Anti-Aircraft Disintegrator Shell. Wonder Woman discovered the mastermind behind it was Dr Cue, a developer of diseases and gases. Wonder Woman was tied up and placed in an oven, but escaped after pretending to be knocked out by gas. Diana Prince was taken to where the shells were being tested and fell from the plane bound hand and foot while Cue used a parachute as the shell had disintegrated the plane. Wonder Woman rescued Diana and unmasked Cue, revealing him as Colonel Togo Ku, Chief of Japanese spies in America. Wonder Woman rescued Dan White and apprehended the spies. When the invention proved successful, Diana Prince relinquished her legal name and began referring to herself by her married name Diana White, and Wonder Woman resumed using the Diana Prince identity.\n\nDiana Prince continued to work in military intelligence, eventually rising to the rank of Major. She was forced later into the difficult situation of working alongside her true love, Steve Trevor, while Darnell fell for Diana Prince.\n\nWhen the DC Universe adopted the convention that the Golden Age adventures took place on the parallel world of Earth-Two, it was learned that Wonder Woman eventually gave up her secret identity, married Steve Trevor, and became the mother of Hippolyta \"Lyta\" Trevor, who became the superheroine Fury. Although she had given up her immortality by marrying Trevor, this Wonder Woman was still aging at a much slower rate than her husband and sometimes met the Earth-1 Wonder Woman.\n\nWhen the Wonder Woman television series debuted, with its first season set in World War II, the comics followed suit, shifting adventures back to that time. Although the DCU multiverse conventions had been set, the parallel world in which the comic adventures took place deviated significantly from the Golden Age stories that had been retroactively set on Earth-Two, following instead the setting of the TV show. The Diana Prince identity, notably, was not an Army nurse-lieutenant but, instead, a WAVES yeoman, who was secretary for Maj. Trevor and not the commanding officer (Gen. Blankenship, replacing Col. Darnell).\n\nLater retellings of the origins of Wonder Woman, of dubious continuity for the Earth-One Wonder Woman, excluded the story of Wonder Woman purchasing credentials from a real Diana Prince and, instead, showed her creating the identity from scratch. In some versions, the Diana Prince identity was created to become a military intelligence officer, winning the opportunity after competing against several women in a contest of skills, but in others Diana Prince was first a nurse who then followed Steve to military intelligence. In one version, the identity just appears without explanation.\n\nThe change coincided with the switch from longtime editor Robert Kanigher (who had taken over writing for the character following the death of creator William Moulton Marston in 1947), to new editor Dennis O'Neil in \"Wonder Woman\" #178 (dated October 1968). According to the new writer/artist Mike Sekowsky, the reason for the change was: \"[T]he sales on the old WW were so bad that the book was going to be dropped. The new Wonder Woman was given a chance -- (a last chance for the book) and it worked!\" Diana Prince gave herself a \"mod\" makeover in order to go undercover when Trevor was accused of being a double-agent. The following issue, the Amazons claimed they needed to leave this world for another dimension in order to \"renew their magic\", and Diana renounced her powers and Wonder Woman identity in order to remain with Steve. Meanwhile, Steve Trevor was kidnapped by the evil Doctor Cyber, international terrorist. During this adventure, Diana Prince met and befriended blind martial arts expert I Ching, who trained her in Asian martial arts, which Diana as a trained Amazon quickly mastered. When one of Cyber's henchwomen killed Trevor (in issue 180), Diana transitioned into working with Ching to bring down Cyber. Other adventures included sword-and-sorcery missions, supernatural villains, fighting militia sects, and helping people in trouble.\n\nDiana left the military, opening a \"mod\" boutique in New York City. After rescuing runaway Cathy Perkins, who had been captured by a weird dominatrix gang, she hired Cathy to be her assistant and run the boutique when Diana was called away for adventures. One such adventure saw her being forced back into military service for one case.\n\nThe non-powered Diana Prince era ended as abruptly as it had started when Kanigher returned as editor in \"Wonder Woman\" #204 (dated February 1973). A sniper terrorized New York City. He shot and killed a motorist, whose car crashed into a restaurant in which Diana and Ching were enjoying lunch. Ching was killed, and an enraged Diana set off to stop the sniper. Along the way, she suffered a head injury, and the dazed Diana started operating on subconscious urges that compelled her to steal a military aircraft and head for the Bermuda Triangle, where she crashed. When she woke up, she was suffering from amnesia, and she found herself on Paradise Island, where the Amazons restored as many of her memories as possible, although her time as a non-powered adventurer could not be restored completely. The restoration of the superpowered Wonder Woman was inspired, at least in part, by complaints from feminist advocate Gloria Steinem about the de-powering of the character.\n\nWonder Woman returned to man's world, adopting the Diana Prince identity again and finding work at the United Nations, first as a translator and guide and then as an agent for the UN Crisis Bureau, under Morgan Tracy. When Steve Trevor was restored to life mystically (later revealed to be the infusion of the hardy life force of Eros, the love god), he found work at the UN-related Spy-on-Spy service under the alias Steve Howard. Steve and Diana lived and worked together until Steve was kidnapped and slain by a man obsessed with reviving a demon.\n\nIn \"Wonder Woman\" #250, Diana lost the title of Wonder Woman to an amazon rival named Orana. In spite of her loss, Diana rebelled against the Gods of Olympus and left Paradise Island determined to live her life in her alter ego. However her super heroine retirement was short lived. In the following issue, \"Wonder Woman\" #251, Orana, called herself the \"New Wonder Woman\" and tried to pick up Diana's responsibilities as a heroine. In Orana's first major battle, the red-haired Wonder Woman was shot and killed by a terrorist named Warhead. Orana's death allowed Diana to reclaim her role as Wonder Woman once again. Diana eventually left the UN Crisis Bureau and briefly served as a NASA astronaut in Houston, where she dated fellow astronaut Mike Bailey (later revealed to be operating as Ace of the Royal Flush Gang,) before returning to a different UN program.\n\nStill grieving the second death of Steve Trevor, Diana returned to Paradise Island, where her memories of Steve Trevor were erased in a misguided attempt to heal her emotional distress. When a Steve Trevor from a parallel world crashlanded off Paradise Island, Aphrodite altered the memories of all the world to allow him to be accepted as the Steve Trevor of this world. Wonder Woman erased all traces of her previous life as Diana Prince and established a new Diana Prince identity, becoming an Air Force captain, (eventually major), serving in the Pentagon as adjutant to Col. Trevor in the Special Assignments Bureau, a special military intelligence program designed to interdict global crises before they develop.\n\nFor a while, Diana found herself torn between Steve and Maj. Keith Griggs, who was in love with Diana Prince.\n\nThis Diana Prince identity was ended during the Crisis on Infinite Earths, when an office meeting was interrupted by Hermes, demanding Diana's service to save Paradise Island and Olympus itself. Diana and Steve were married by Zeus himself, before all of history was rewritten by the events of the Crisis on Infinite Earths.\n\n After the \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" storyline, the history of all DC Comics' characters were erased and restarted anew. When the Wonder Woman comic book was rebooted \"Post-Crisis\", the Diana Prince identity was not revived, although references to it were occasionally made as a possible name to use for legal purposes. Instead Wonder Woman was simply referred to as \"Diana of Themyscira\" when not in costume. Thus, she had no secret identity and lived openly as an Amazon in everyday life. There were a few times where Wonder Woman did adopt a secret identity but only for undercover operations, such as when she worked beside the assassin Deathstroke. During that adventure in the Balkan country of Pan Balgravia Diana created the false persona of Diane Prince to hide herself from the country's government spies while trying to rescue an abducted Barbara Minerva. Later when Diana worked at the Gateway City Museum with Helena Sandsmark she did publicly use her well-known alias during an on-camera interview with a reporter.\n\nWhen Hippolyta assumed the role of Wonder Woman and traveled back to World War II, she stayed in the home of a Nurse Diana Prince.\n\nin 2005, during the \"Infinite Crisis\" storyline, Diana as Wonder Woman was forced to kill an unarmed civilian for the first time ever when deranged businessman/spymaster Maxwell Lord murdered Ted Kord (Blue Beetle II) and seized mental control of Superman, forcing him to brutally attack Batman. Under the influence of her lasso, Lord told her that the only way to stop him was to kill him; seeing no other alternative, she snapped his neck. The Brother Eye sentient computer satellite transmitted live video of Diana killing Lord to screens all over the world, destroying her reputation and even turning Superman and Batman against her. In the wake of the global hostility this act caused toward her, the Amazon went into a year's exile. This exile ended the viability of her initially intended mission of being an ambassador and teacher of Amazon principles. Once she returned to public life, Diana realized that her life as a full-time celebrity superhero and ambassador had kept her removed from humanity. Because of this she again donned the persona of Diana Prince and became an agent at the Department of Metahuman Affairs, where she was ordered to help capture Wonder Woman. During a later battle with Circe, the witch placed a spell on Diana leaving Wonder Woman powerless when in the role of Diana Prince.\n\nThe Diana Prince identity has been a feature of almost all significant appearances of Wonder Woman in other media.\n\nThe first effort at a pilot presentation for a television series was based on a comedic conceit that the homely Diana Prince saw herself as a gorgeous Amazon whenever she becomes Wonder Woman—although no one else sees such a change in her looks.\nThe first TV pilot movie, starring Cathy Lee Crosby, was modeled primarily on the mod Diana Prince era and featured Crosby as Diana Prince, secretary to Office of Strategic Services (O.S.S) Major Steve Trevor, but secretly operating on her own as an agent known to some as \"Wonder Woman\".\n\nThe \"Super Friends\" animated series included at least one episode featuring Diana Prince spinning to become Wonder Woman.\n\nThe most significant appearance to date has been the \"Wonder Woman\" television series, starring Lynda Carter. Diana Prince was in the first season the bespectacled Yeoman Prince, WAVES secretary to Maj. Steve Trevor in the O.S.S. headquarters in Washington, DC. In the second and third seasons, set in the modern day, Diana Prince was an agent of the Inter-Agency Defense Command (IADC), operating at first from Washington and, in the final episode, from the Los Angeles field office.\n\nThe Lynda Carter TV series had a significant impact on the comic book. During the first season, DC Comics decided to set the comic book in World War II to match the series, using the parallel worlds conceit to explain that the Wonder Woman of Earth-One accidentally travelled both back in time and to a parallel world, where she encountered her multiversal counterpart. When the Earth-One Wonder Woman returned to the present day, the comic book remained behind in World War II to follow the adventures of that Wonder Woman. This experiment lasted a year, until the May 1978 issue returned to the present day. Once the comic returned to the present day, the comic art by José Delbo continued to reflect aspects of the TV series, notably the fashion-forward Diana Prince with a long ponytail, but mostly without the Clark Kent-esque glasses which became a feature of the TV series starting in the middle of the second season. From that point on, Diana would wear her glasses if she is either in her office or driving a car. Other aspects of the TV series, most notably the \"Wonder spin\" transformation and the convention that Diana Prince is powerless until she transforms into Wonder Woman, became incorporated in the 2005 restart of the comic book.\n\nThis character is portrayed by Gal Gadot in the 2016 film \"\". It marks the first theatrical appearance of Diana as well as the first live action theatrical appearance of her Amazonian superhero counterpart, with a new image. She later received her own film in 2017, which depicts the Diana Prince identity as a curator of antiquities at the Louvre Museum in Paris. The name is referenced in the film as Steve Trevor forms it to cut off Diana from fully saying \"Diana, Princess of Themyscira\" in an effort to form a secret identity for her.\n\nComic books based on the SuperFriends cartoon continuity had the original Diana Prince and her husband Dan White as the parents of original kid sidekick Marvin, with his connection being the reason he was considered for the role. This was never brought up in the cartoon. His partner Wendy was the niece of one of Batman's earliest mentors as well.\n\nIn the Golden Age, Diana eventually learned the benefits of keeping her Wonder Woman costume under her military uniform, instead of leaving it at her apartment or in a desk drawer. Her transformation often involved her running out of a room, changing clothes at superspeed, and returning to a room as Wonder Woman. Occasionally, panels would show her in mid-transformation, pulling off stockings and revealing her Wonder Woman costume under the uniform.\n\nA Bronze Age tweak gave her a new method of transformation using the magic lasso. The explanation was that Amazon scientists treated Wonder Woman's clothes with a special chemical that would respond to the vibrations of the magic lasso; whenever Diana stepped into the lasso loop and brought it up and down, her Diana Prince clothes would transform into the Wonder Woman armor.\n\nThe best known transformation sequence was created by Lynda Carter in behind-the-scenes decisions for the Wonder Woman television show: a twirling transformation, which was based on a dance maneuver. As the twirl was refined, it involved Diana Prince stretching her arms out and making a counter-clockwise quarter turn and then a series of clockwise turns, with a mystical explosion of light, leaving her as Wonder Woman. Eventually, it was revealed that Diana Prince was powerless, until she executed the twirl and became Wonder Woman. A couple of episodes would have Diana Prince attempting the twirl, only to be interrupted by muggers or having to stop the process due to fear of exposing her secret identity; in which she would not have turned herself into Wonder Woman, implying the process must be completed for her to do so. Also implied is that the process must be precise; the less experienced Wonder Girl attempted the twirl only to find herself still an ordinary woman. Only when she thought back to her training in a flashback with Hippolyta did she realize she must mentally focus and think of the transformation while twirling with ballet-like grace to be effective.\n\nThe twirl was featured infrequently on \"Super Friends\", whenever Diana Prince needed to leave her civilian job and attend to the various crises which she and JLA teammates faced throughout the show.\n\nThe \"Wonder twirl\" was copied briefly into the pre-Crisis comics during the period in which the comic book returned to World War II in order to correspond with the first season of the TV series, but Wonder Woman never lost her strength as Diana Prince. The twirl returned a few times in the post-\"Crisis\" comic book, before the post-\"Infinite Crisis\" reboot of the series, which brought the twirl back as a primary feature, along with the TV show convention that Wonder Woman loses her powers in the Diana Prince identity.\n\nThe \"Wonder twirl\" was also shown in the \"To Another Shore\" episode of \"Justice League Unlimited\".\n\nIn 2011, David E. Kelley wrote a Wonder Woman pilot for NBC that was never picked up to be on the air. The story takes place in modern-day Los Angeles, and the character, played by Adrianne Palicki, would have three identities: Wonder Woman (a superhero who fights crime), Diana Themyscira (Wonder Woman's public persona outside of costume, who is a successful businesswoman and owner of Themyscira Industries) and Diana Prince (an ordinary shy woman, the other assistant of Diana Themyscira). The Diana Prince identity would have been used to allow Diana some escape from her more recognized role as Diana Themyscira and Wonder Woman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44465484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44465484", "title": "Dirty Money Project", "text": "Dirty Money Project\n\nThe Dirty Money Project is a scientific research project of New York University, a comprehensive study of the DNA on banknotes which aims to understand the role of banknotes in spreading diseases among humans, especially on those who live in an urban region.\n\nNYU's Dirty Money Project is part of a larger project looking into New York City's \"MetaGenome\", which seeks to examine the \"microbes all around us\". According to experts, the project may be able to identify potential health threats, fight flu epidemics, and even chart the environmental impact of major storms. The studies conducted so far have revealed that a banknote is a medium of exchange for hundreds of different kinds of bacteria as banknotes pass from hand to hand.\n\nScientists have also found that each banknote carries about 3,000 types of bacteria on its surface as well as DNA from drug-resistant microbes. And, since a banknote is home to thousands of microbes – bacteria, fungi and pathogens, this situation can cause such illnesses as skin infections, stomach ulcers and food poisoning etc., scientists believe.\n\nOne of the goals of the study is to provide information that could help health workers to prevent disease outbreaks in urban environments like New York City before they spread very far through mediums like banknotes.\n"}
{"id": "55070376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55070376", "title": "Disability in Sri Lanka", "text": "Disability in Sri Lanka\n\nPeople with disabilities in Sri Lanka typically face significant stigma and discrimination. The main causes for disability in Sri Lanka are poor hygiene, lack of medical care, the prevalence of 30 years of war, the aftereffects of the 2004 tsunami, and an increase in accidents.\n\nAbout 1.6 million Sri Lankans, 8% of the population, were regarded as disabled in 2012. Sri Lanka has been a signatory of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities since 2007.\n\nThe definition of disability in Sri Lanka is: \"Any person who as a result of any deficiency in his physical or mental capabilities whether congenital or not is unable by himself to ensure for himself, wholly or partly the necessities of life\".\n\n\"See:Demographics of Sri Lanka\"\n\nIn Sri Lanka about 8.7% of the total population above the age of 5 live with some form of disability, and it is estimated that about 300,000 people in the 18-60 age group have some form of disability.\n\nAbout 57% of disabled people are male, and 43% are female, as of 2012.\n\nChapter III, article 12, paragraph 4 of the Constitution of Sri Lanka permits legislation and executive action that creates advantages for disabled persons. According to the Manthri.lk parliamentary monitoring website, disability rights legislation and policies are generally not properly implemented.\n\nSri Lanka ratified by the CRPD on 8 February 2016.\n\nThe following acts are taken in consideration related to disability in Sri Lanka. They are:\n\n1. 1996, Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities\n2. Ranaviru Seva Act \n3. Visually Handicapped Trust Fund Act\n\nSome organisations have voluntarily come forward to help the disabled people in Sri Lanka. They include:\n\nGenerally in Sri Lanka, most disabled people are unemployed as they face discrimination and limitations to access safe working environments.\n\nSelf-employment is the only option available to disabled people instead of expecting an open safe working environment.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, about 96% of the total disabled population with functional difficulties didn't engage in educational activities. Only about 54,311 disabled students attend school.\n\nSri Lanka made its Paralympics debut in 1996 Paralympics Games in Atlanta. Since then, the Sri Lankan Paralympic team has participated in every edition of the Paralympics Games. So far, Sri Lanka has won two medals in the Paralympic Games. Pradeep Sanjaya and Dinesh Priyantha are the only Sri Lankan Paralympians to win Paralympic medals for Sri Lanka. Both of these athletes are army personnel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47479792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47479792", "title": "Elizabeth M. Bright", "text": "Elizabeth M. Bright\n\nElizabeth M. Bright (25 September 1893 – 20 October 1975) early investigator, researcher and physiologist from Harvard and Woods Hole that collaborated with noted oceanographer Alfred C. Redfield to study the effects of radiation on various animal models\n\nElizabeith M. Bright was born on 25 September 1893 in Chelsea, Suffolk, Massachusetts to David L. Bright and Emma Clark from Nova Scotia. Her father’s occupation was listed as laborer. On 29 January 1911 in Chelsea, Massachusetts, at the age of 17 she married Norman M. Menzies, age 20 from Scotland whose occupation was listed as steamfitter. Bright died on 20 October 1975 at Lowell, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1912, Bright went to the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Massachusetts in the position of beginning investigator in the Physiology Department and also worked as a research assistant at Harvard University Medical School in the Physiology Department. From 1918 to 1924 Bright worked with noted oceanographer Alfred C. Redfield on studies that involved the Nereis and other animal models and radiation health effects and in collaboration published 12 papers.\n\n"}
{"id": "47667894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47667894", "title": "Everest and Jennings", "text": "Everest and Jennings\n\nEverest & Jennings was a manufacturer of mobility and adaptive equipment. Everest & Jennings was the first company to mass-produce wheelchairs.\n\nHerbert A. Everest and Harry C. Jennings Sr. were friends, and both were engineers. Herbert Everest was also physically disabled after surviving a mining accident in 1918. Everest complained to Jennings about the bulk of chairs available in the early 1930s, and in 1933, the pair designed and built a lightweight, collapsible model in Jennings' garage. The design was patented in October 1937.\n\nThe pair soon went into business to manufacture their improved design. In the 1940s, they supplied disabled veterans of World War II through government contracts that established the company as a recognized name in rehabilitation equipment.\n\nThe Everest family sold its interest in the company in 1943, but Gerald Jennings, son of Harry Sr., was chief executive from 1952 until he retired in 1985.\n\nBy the early 1970s, Everest & Jennings International was \"the world's largest supplier of wheelchairs.\" But this status brought increased scrutiny. In 1977, the United States Justice Department formally accused Everest & Jennings of practices that violated antitrust laws. The resulting settlement required Everest & Jennings to make annual compliance reports to the Justice Department; the settlement was called \"little more than a slap on the wrist\" by consumer advocate Ralph Nader. Nader was also involved with protests about the quality, safety, and price of Everest & Jennings chairs, by a disability rights group. A class action suit was brought by equipment dealers, but dismissed in court in 1984.\n\nEverest & Jennings recorded sales of $145 million in 1980, and profits near $8 million. In the 1980s they launched \"Avenues,\" an adaptive clothing line for wheelchair users. Changes within the company and in the business landscape during the 1980s left Everest & Jennings struggling at decade's end.\n\nIn 1992, facing financial difficulties from lost market share, Everest & Jennings moved from Camarillo, California to St. Louis, Missouri. In 1993, the company acquired Medical Composite Technology, a carbon fiber technology company.\n\nIn 1996, still struggling with debt and falling sales, Everest & Jennings announced the sale of the company to Graham-Field Health Products. Graham-Field soon closed the Everett & Jennings plant in Earth City, Missouri. Graham-Field continues to market wheelchairs under the Everest & Jennings name.\n\nAmong the prominent early users of Everest & Jennings wheelchairs were Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Sergeant Alvin C. York and Winston Churchill. Ed Roberts and other members of the Rolling Quads used Everest & Jennings power chairs. Author Joni Eareckson Tada once wrote, \"If they ever made a statue of me, I would want my 300-pound Everest & Jennings power chair front and center.\" Actor Christopher Reeve's first wheelchair after becoming quadriplegic in 1995 was made by Everest & Jennings.\n"}
{"id": "3548906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3548906", "title": "Eye black", "text": "Eye black\n\nEye black is a grease or strip applied under the eyes to reduce glare. It is often used by American football, baseball, and lacrosse players to mitigate the effects of bright sunlight or stadium floodlights.\n\nIt is a form of functional makeup.\n\n\nOne of the earliest known instances of a player wearing eye black is baseball legend Babe Ruth, who, in or around the 1930s, used the grease in an attempt to reduce sun glare. According to Paul Lukas of \"ESPN.com\", eye black caught on with American football player Andy Farkas. He also states that the original eye black was made from the ashes of burned cork.\n\nA 2003 study by Brian DeBroff and Patricia Pahk tested whether black eye grease actually had anti-glare properties. The subjects of the study were divided into three groups: wearers of eye black, wearers of anti-glare stickers, and wearers of petroleum jelly. The subjects' vision was tested using an eye chart while being exposed to natural sunlight.\n\nThe study concluded that eye black reduced glare of the sun and improved contrast sensitivity, whereas commercial anti-glare stickers and petroleum jelly (the control substance) were found to be ineffective.\n\nHowever, the study was subject to unavoidable demand bias, wherein the test subjects could have unconsciously changed their responses during testing based on the fact that they knew which substance they were wearing. Also, the petroleum jelly could have introduced glare that would not occur on natural skin and the study did not test a control condition of natural skin. Learning bias is also a factor in the results due to chart repetition.\n\nA study by Benjamin R. Powers at University of New Hampshire, which improved on DeBroff's methodology, found eye black to reduce glare from the sun in females and in those whose eye-color was not blue. The study also tested males and blue-eyed subjects. However, the results were not statistically significant (probably due to a smaller sample size of those test subjects). Some testing was also performed indoors under artificial lighting (when inclement weather prohibited outdoor testing). However, those results showed little difference and were not statistically significant. The Powers study was not a double-blind study because those in contact with the test subjects knew which substance was applied. Also, the eye tests were performed at a distance of only .\n\nOn an episode of \"MythBusters\", Adam Savage and Jamie Hyneman tested whether eye black reduces glare. They determined that, while eye black does not eliminate glare, it does improve an athlete's ability to differentiate between light and dark, enhancing a player's ability to track moving objects in a sunny environment.\n\nSome athletes, particularly at the college level, began a practice of writing short messages on their adhesive eye black stickers. The trend gained traction among football players in the mid-2000s, popularized by Reggie Bush, who featured homages to his hometown; other popular messages included Bible verses, memorial tributes, and licensed university logos. The displays began to garner widespread media attention surrounding Tim Tebow, who used Bible verse references. This practice was banned on April 14, 2010, when the NCAA Playing Rules Oversight Panel (PROP) approved a proposal effecting \"that players are not allowed to have any symbols or messages on their eye black starting in the 2010 season.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19069079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19069079", "title": "FAT TOM", "text": "FAT TOM\n\nFAT TOM is a mnemonic device used in the food service industry to describe the six favorable conditions required for the growth of foodborne pathogens. It is an acronym for food, acidity, time, temperature, oxygen and moisture.\n\nEach of the six conditions that foster the growth foodborne pathogens are defined in set ranges:\n\n"}
{"id": "16765750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16765750", "title": "Family nurse practitioner", "text": "Family nurse practitioner\n\nA family nurse practitioner (FNP) provides continuing and comprehensive healthcare for the individual and family across all ages, genders, diseases, and body systems. Primary care emphasises the holistic nature of health and it is based on knowledge of the patient in the context of the family and the community, emphasizing disease prevention and health promotion.\n\nFollowing educational preparation at the master's or doctoral level, FNPs must become board certified by an approved certification body. Board certification must be maintained by obtaining continuing nursing education credits. In the US, board certification is provided either through the American Nurses Credentialing Center (awards the FNP-BC credential) or through the American Association of Nurse Practitioners certification program (awards the NP-C credential).\n\nFNPs deliver a range of acute, chronic and preventive healthcare services. In addition to diagnosing and treating illness, they also provide preventive care, including routine checkups, health-risk assessments, immunization and screening tests, and personalized counseling on maintaining a healthy lifestyle. FNPs also manage chronic illness, often coordinating care provided by specialty physicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "18645101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18645101", "title": "Feodor Vassilyev", "text": "Feodor Vassilyev\n\nFeodor Vassilyev (, older spelling: Ѳеодоръ Васильевъ) (c. 1707 1782) was a peasant from Shuya, Russia. His first wife lived to be 76 and, between 1725 and 1765, had 69 children (16 pairs of twins, 7 sets of triplets and 4 sets of quadruplets); 67 of them survived infancy with the loss of one set of twins. Vassilyev's first wife, Valentina, set the record for most children born to a single woman; however, few other details are known of her life, such as her date of birth or death. Vassilyev also had 18 children with his second wife, who had 6 pairs of twins and 2 sets of triplets, making him a father of 87 children in total. Of his 87 children, at least 82 are said to have survived infancy.\n\nThe first published account about Feodor Vassilyev's children appeared in a 1783 issue of \"The Gentleman's Magazine\" (Vol. 53 p. 753, London, 1783) and states that the information \"however astonishing, may be depended upon, as it came directly from an English merchant in St Petersburg to his relatives in England, who added that the peasant was to be introduced to the Empress\". The same numbers were given in 's 1788 commentary on Russian history and in an 1834 book by , \"Saint Petersburg Panorama\".\n\nSeveral published sources raised doubts as to the veracity of these claims. According to a 1933 article by Julia Bell in \"Biometrika\", a 1790 book of B. F. J. Hermann \"Statistische Schilderung von Rußland\" did provide the claims about Feodor Vassilyev's children but \"with a caution\". Bell also notes that the case was reported by \"The Lancet\" in an 1878 article about the study of twins. The \"Lancet\" article states that the French Academy of Sciences attempted to verify the claims about Vassilyev's children and contacted \"M. Khanikoff of the Imperial Academy of St Petersburg for advice as to the means they should pursue, but were told by him that all investigation was superfluous, that members of the family still lived in Moscow and that they had been the object of favors from the Government\". Bell concludes that Vassilyev's case \"must be regarded as under suspicion\". Similarly, Marie Clay in a 1998 book notes: \"Sadly, this evasion of proper investigation seems, in retrospect, to have dealt a terminal blow to our chances of ever establishing the true detail of this extraordinary case\". \nThe data about Vassilyev's children are included in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1600389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1600389", "title": "Glenfiddich Food and Drink Awards", "text": "Glenfiddich Food and Drink Awards\n\nThe Glenfiddich Food and Drink Awards were intended to recognize achievements in writing, publishing and broadcasting on the subjects of food and drink. The awards had been sponsored since 1972 by William Grant & Sons, a family-owned Scottish distiller that produces Glenfiddich, a Speyside single malt Scotch whisky.\n\nIn total 12 awards were made annually.\n\nIn 2008, Glenfiddich decided to discontinue distributing Food and Drink Awards, reviewing their \"strategy, scope and potential application in some of Glenfiddich’s key markets outside the UK.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "636913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=636913", "title": "Goiânia accident", "text": "Goiânia accident\n\nThe Goiânia accident was a radioactive contamination accident that occurred on September 13, 1987, at Goiânia, in the Brazilian state of Goiás, after a forgotten radiotherapy source was taken from an abandoned hospital site in the city. It was subsequently handled by many people, resulting in four deaths. About 112,000 people were examined for radioactive contamination and 249 were found to have significant levels of radioactive material in or on their bodies.\n\nIn the cleanup operation, topsoil had to be removed from several sites, and several houses were demolished. All the objects from within those houses were removed and examined. \"Time\" magazine has identified the accident as one of the world's \"worst nuclear disasters\" and the International Atomic Energy Agency called it \"one of the world's worst radiological incidents\".\n\nThe radiation source in the Goiânia accident was a small capsule containing about of highly radioactive caesium chloride (a caesium salt made with a radioisotope, caesium-137) encased in a shielding canister made of lead and steel. The source was positioned in a container of the wheel type, where the wheel turns inside the casing to move the source between the storage and irradiation positions.\n\nThe activity of the source was 74 terabecquerels (TBq) in 1971. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) describes the container as an \"international standard capsule\". It was 51 millimeters (2 inches) in diameter and 48 mm (1.8 inches) long. The specific activity of the active solid was about 814 TBq·kg of caesium-137 (half life of 30 years). The dose rate at one meter from the source was 4.56 grays per hour (456 rad·h). While the serial number of the device was unknown, thus hindering definitive identification, the device was thought to have been made in the United States at Oak Ridge National Laboratory and was used as a radiation source for radiation therapy at the Goiânia hospital.\n\nThe IAEA states that the source contained when it was taken and that about 44 TBq (1200 Ci, 87%) of contamination had been recovered during the cleanup operation. This means that remained in the environment; it would have decayed to about by 2016.\n\nThe Instituto Goiano de Radioterapia (IGR), a private radiotherapy institute in Goiânia, was just northwest of Praça Cívica, the administrative center of the city. It moved to its new premises in 1985, leaving behind a caesium-137-based teletherapy unit that had been purchased in 1977. The fate of the abandoned site was disputed in court between IGR and the Society of Saint Vincent de Paul, then owner of the premises. On September 11, 1986, the Court of Goiás stated it had knowledge of the abandoned radioactive material in the building.\n\nFour months before the theft, on May 4, 1987, Saura Taniguti, then director of Ipasgo, the institute of insurance for civil servants, used police force to prevent one of the owners of IGR, Carlos Figueiredo Bezerril, from removing the objects that were left behind. Figueiredo then warned the president of Ipasgo, Lício Teixeira Borges, that he should take responsibility \"for what would happen with the caesium bomb\".\n\nThe court posted a security guard to protect the hazardous abandoned equipment. Meanwhile, the owners of IGR wrote several letters to the National Nuclear Energy Commission, warning them about the danger of keeping a teletherapy unit at an abandoned site, but they could not remove the equipment by themselves once a court order prevented them from doing so.\n\nOn September 13, 1987, taking advantage of the absence of the guard, Roberto dos Santos Alves and Wagner Mota Pereira illegally entered the partially demolished facility. They partially disassembled the teletherapy unit, and placed the source assembly – which they thought might have some scrap value – in a wheelbarrow, taking it to Alves's home. There, they began dismantling the equipment. That same evening, they both began to vomit. Nevertheless, they continued in their efforts. The following day, Pereira began to experience diarrhea and dizziness and his left hand began to swell. He soon developed a burn on this hand in the same size and shape as the aperture – he eventually underwent partial amputation of several fingers.\n\nOn September 15, Pereira visited a local clinic where his symptoms were diagnosed as the result of something he had eaten, and he was told to return home and rest. Alves, however, continued with his efforts to dismantle the equipment. In the course of this effort, he eventually freed the caesium capsule from its protective rotating head. His prolonged exposure to the radioactive material led to his right forearm becoming ulcerated, requiring amputation.\n\nOn September 16, Alves succeeded in puncturing the capsule's aperture window with a screwdriver, allowing him to see a deep blue light coming from the tiny opening he had created. He inserted the screwdriver and successfully scooped out some of the glowing substance. Thinking it was perhaps a type of gunpowder, he tried to light it, but the powder would not ignite. The exact mechanism by which the light was generated was not known at the time the IAEA report was written, though it was thought to be either ionized air glow, fluorescence or Cherenkov radiation associated with the absorption of moisture by the source; similar blue light was observed in 1988 at Oak Ridge National Laboratory during the disencapsulation of a Cs source.\n\nOn September 18, Alves sold the items to a nearby scrapyard. That night, Devair Alves Ferreira (the owner of the scrapyard) noticed the blue glow from the punctured capsule. Thinking the capsule's contents were valuable or even supernatural, he immediately brought it into his house. Over the next three days, he invited friends and family to view the strange glowing substance.\n\nOn September 21 at the scrapyard, one of Ferreira's friends (given as EF1 in the IAEA report) succeeded in freeing several rice-sized grains of the glowing material from the capsule using a screwdriver. Alves Ferreira began to share some of them with various friends and family members. That same day, his wife, 37-year-old Gabriela Maria Ferreira, began to fall ill. On September 25, 1987, Devair Alves Ferreira sold the scrap metal to a second scrapyard.\n\nThe day before the sale to the second scrapyard, on September 24, Ivo, Devair's brother, successfully scraped some additional dust out of the source and took it to his house a short distance away. There he spread some of it on the concrete floor. His six-year-old daughter, Leide das Neves Ferreira, later ate a sandwich while sitting on this floor. She was also fascinated by the blue glow of the powder, applying it to her body and showing it off to her mother. Dust from the powder fell on the sandwich she was consuming; she eventually absorbed 1.0 GBq and received a total dose of 6.0 Gy, more than a fatal dose even with treatment.\n\nGabriela Maria Ferreira had been the first to notice that many people around her had become severely ill at the same time.\n\nOn September 28, 1987 - 15 days after the item was found - she reclaimed the materials from the rival scrapyard and transported them to a hospital. Because the remains of the source were kept in a plastic bag, the level of contamination at the hospital was low.\n\nIn the morning of September 29, 1987 a visiting medical physicist used a scintillation counter to confirm the presence of radioactivity and persuaded the authorities to take immediate action. The city, state, and national governments were all aware of the incident by the end of the day.\n\nNews of the radiation incident was broadcast on local, national, and international media. Within days, nearly 130,000 people swarmed local hospitals concerned that they might have been exposed. Of those, 250 were indeed found to be contaminated— some with radioactive residue still on their skin— through the use of Geiger counters. Eventually, 20 people showed signs of radiation sickness and required treatment.\n\nAges in years are given, with dosages listed in grays (Gy).\n\n\nDevair Ferreira himself survived despite receiving 7 Gy of radiation. He died in 1994 of cirrhosis aggravated by depression and binge drinking. Ivo Ferreira died of emphysema in 2003, after also being afflicted by depression.\n\nThe outcomes for the 46 most contaminated people are shown in the bar chart below. Several people survived high doses of radiation. This is thought in some cases to be because the dose was fractionated. Given time, the body's repair mechanisms will reverse cell damage caused by radiation. If the dose is spread over a long time period, these mechanisms can mitigate the effects of radiation poisoning.\n\nAfterwards, about 112,000 people were examined for radioactive contamination; 249 were found to have significant levels of radioactive material in or on their body. Of this group, 129 people had internal contamination. The majority of the internally contaminated people only suffered small doses (, less than a 1 in 400 risk of getting cancer as a result).\n\nA thousand people were identified as having suffered a dose which was greater than one year of background radiation; it is thought that 97% of these people had a dose of between 10 and 200 mSv (between 1 in 2,000 and 1 in 100 risk of developing cancer as a result).\n\nIn 2007, the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation determined that the rate of caesium-137 related diseases are the same in Goiânia accident survivors as they are in the population at large. Nevertheless, compensation is still distributed to survivors, who suffer radiation-related prejudices in everyday life.\n\nIn light of the deaths caused, the three doctors who had owned and run IGR were charged with criminal negligence. Because the accidents occurred before the promulgation of the Federal Constitution of 1988 and because the substance was acquired by the clinic and not by the individual owners, the court could not declare the owners of IGR liable. One of the medical doctors owning IGR and the clinic's physicist were ordered to pay R$100,000 for the derelict condition of the building. The two thieves were not included as defendants in the public civil suit.\n\nIn 2000, CNEN, the National Nuclear Energy Commission, was ordered by the 8th Federal Court of Goiás to pay compensation of R$ 1.3 million (near US$750,000) and to guarantee medical and psychological treatment for the direct and indirect victims of the accident and their descendants down to the third generation.\n\nTopsoil had to be removed from several sites, and several houses were demolished. All the objects from within those houses were removed and examined. Those that were found to be free of radioactivity were wrapped in plastic bags, while those that were contaminated were either decontaminated or disposed of as waste. In industry, the choice between decontaminating or disposing objects is based on only the economic value of the object and the ease of decontamination. In this case, the IAEA recognized that to reduce the psychological impact of the event, greater effort should have been taken to clean up items of personal value, such as jewelry and photographs. It is not clear from the IAEA report to what degree this was practiced.\n\nAfter the houses were emptied, vacuum cleaners were used to remove dust, and plumbing was examined for radioactivity. Painted surfaces could be scraped, while floors were treated with acid and Prussian blue mixtures. Roofs were vacuumed and hosed, but two houses had to have their roofs removed. The waste from the cleanup was moved out of the city to a remote place for storage.\n\nPotassium alum dissolved in hydrochloric acid was used on clay, concrete, soil, and roofs. Caesium has a high affinity for many clays.\n\nOrganic solvents, followed by potassium alum dissolved in hydrochloric acid, were used to treat waxed/greased floors and tables. Sodium hydroxide solutions, also followed by dissolved potassium alum, were used to treat synthetic floors, machines and typewriters.\n\nPrussian blue was used to internally decontaminate many people, although by the time it was applied, much of the radioactive material had already migrated from the bloodstream to the muscle tissue, greatly hampering its effectiveness. Urine from victims was treated with ion exchange resin to compact the waste for ease of storage.\n\nThe cleanup operation was much harder for this event than it could have been because the source was opened and the active material was water soluble. A sealed source need only be picked up, placed in a lead container, and transported to the radioactive waste storage. In the recovery of lost sources, the IAEA recommends careful planning and using a crane or other device to place shielding (such as a pallet of bricks or a concrete block) near the source to protect recovery workers.\n\nThe Goiânia accident spread significant radioactive contamination throughout the Aeroporto, Central, and Ferroviários districts. Even after the cleanup, 7 TBq of radioactivity remained unaccounted for.\n\nSome of the key contamination sites:\n\n\nOther contamination was also found in or on:\n\nThe original teletherapy capsule was seized by the Brazilian military as soon as it was discovered, and since then the empty capsule has been on display at the \"Escola de Instrução Especializada\" (\"School of Specialized Instruction\") in Rio de Janeiro as a memento to those who participated in the cleanup of the contaminated area.\n\nIn 1991, a group of researchers collected blood samples from highly exposed survivors of the incident. Subsequent analysis resulted in the publication of numerous scientific articles.\n\nA 1990 film \"Césio 137 – O Pesadelo de Goiânia\" (\"Caesium-137 – The Nightmare of Goiânia\"), a dramatisation of the incident, was made by Roberto Pires. It won several awards at the 1990 Festival de Brasília.\n\n\"Thine Own Self\", a 1994 episode of \"\", was partially inspired by the Goiânia accident.\n\nThe state government of Goiás established the Fundação Leide das Neves Ferreira in February 1988, both to study the extent of contamination of the population as a result of the incident and to render aid to those affected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52967", "title": "Gynaecology", "text": "Gynaecology\n\nGynaecology or gynecology (see spelling differences) is the medical practice dealing with the health of the female reproductive systems (vagina, uterus, and ovaries) and the breasts. Outside medicine, the term means \"the science of women\". Its counterpart is andrology, which deals with medical issues specific to the male reproductive system.\n\nAlmost all modern gynaecologists are also obstetricians (see \"obstetrics and gynaecology\"). In many areas, the specialities of gynaecology and obstetrics overlap.\n\nThe word \"gynaecology\" comes from the oblique stem (γυναικ-) of Greek γυνή (\"gyne)\", \"woman\", and \"-logia\", \"study\".\n\nThe Kahun Gynaecological Papyrus, dated to about 1800 BC, deals with women's health\n—gynaecological diseases, fertility, pregnancy, contraception, etc. The text is divided into thirty-four sections, each section dealing with a specific problem and containing diagnosis and treatment; no prognosis is suggested. Treatments are non surgical, comprising applying medicines to the affected body part or swallowing them. The womb is at times seen as the source of complaints manifesting themselves in other body parts.\n\nThe Hippocratic Corpus contains several gynaecological treatises dating to the 5th/4th centuries BC. Aristotle is another strong source for medical texts from the 4th century BC with his descriptions of biology primarily found in \"History of Animals, Parts of Animals, Generation of Animals.\" The gynaecological treatise \"Gynaikeia\" by Soranus of Ephesus (1st/2nd century AD) is extant (together with a 6th-century Latin paraphrase by Muscio, a physician of the same school). He was the chief representative of the school of physicians known as the \"Methodists\".\n\nJ. Marion Sims is widely considered the father of modern gynaecology. Now criticized for his practices, Sims developed some of his techniques by operating on slaves, many of whom were not given anaesthesia. Sims performed surgeries on 12 enslaved women in his homemade backyard hospital for four years. While performing these surgeries he invited men physicians and students to watch invasive and painful procedures while the women were exposed. On one of the women, named Anarcha, he performed 13 surgeries without anesthesia. Due to having so many enslaved women, he would rotate from one to another, continuously trying to perfect the repair of their fistulas. Physicians and students lost interest in assisting Sims over the course of his backyard practice, and he recruited other enslaved women, who were healing from their own surgeries, to assist him. In 1855 Sims went on to found the Woman's Hospital in New York, the first hospital specifically for female disorders.\n\nIn some countries, women must first see a general practitioner (GP; also known as a family practitioner (FP)) prior to seeing a gynaecologist. If their condition requires training, knowledge, surgical procedure, or equipment unavailable to the GP, the patient is then referred to a gynaecologist. In the United States, however, law and many health insurance plans allow gynaecologists to provide primary care in addition to aspects of their own specialty. With this option available, some women opt to see a gynaecological surgeon for non-gynaecological problems without another physician's referral.\n\nAs in all of medicine, the main tools of diagnosis are clinical history and examination. Gynaecological examination is quite intimate, more so than a routine physical exam. It also requires unique instrumentation such as the speculum. The speculum consists of two hinged blades of concave metal or plastic which are used to retract the tissues of the vagina and permit examination of the cervix, the lower part of the uterus located within the upper portion of the vagina. Gynaecologists typically do a bimanual examination (one hand on the abdomen and one or two fingers in the vagina) to palpate the cervix, uterus, ovaries and bony pelvis. It is not uncommon to do a rectovaginal examination for complete evaluation of the pelvis, particularly if any suspicious masses are appreciated. Male gynaecologists may have a female chaperone for their examination. An abdominal or vaginal ultrasound can be used to confirm any abnormalities appreciated with the bimanual examination or when indicated by the patient's history.\n\nExamples of conditions dealt with by a gynaecologist are:\nThere is some crossover in these areas. For example, a woman with urinary incontinence may be referred to a urologist.\n\nAs with all surgical specialties, gynaecologists may employ medical or surgical therapies (or many times, both), depending on the exact nature of the problem that they are treating. Pre- and post-operative medical management will often employ many standard drug therapies, such as antibiotics, diuretics, antihypertensives, and antiemetics. Additionally, gynaecologists make frequent use of specialized hormone-modulating therapies (such as Clomifene citrate and hormonal contraception) to treat disorders of the female genital tract that are responsive to pituitary or gonadal signals.\n\nSurgery, however, is the mainstay of gynaecological therapy. For historical and political reasons, gynaecologists were previously not considered \"surgeons\", although this point has always been the source of some controversy. Modern advancements in both general surgery and gynaecology, however, have blurred many of the once rigid lines of distinction. The rise of sub-specialties within gynaecology which are primarily surgical in nature (for example urogynaecology and gynaecological oncology) have strengthened the reputations of gynaecologists as surgical practitioners, and many surgeons and surgical societies have come to view gynaecologists as comrades of sorts. As proof of this changing attitude, gynaecologists are now eligible for fellowship in both the American College of Surgeons and Royal Colleges of Surgeons, and many newer surgical textbooks include chapters on (at least basic) gynaecological surgery.\n\nSome of the more common operations that gynaecologists perform include:\n\nIn the UK the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, based in London, encourages the study and advancement of both the science and practice of obstetrics and gynaecology. This is done through postgraduate medical education and training development, and the publication of clinical guidelines and reports on aspects of the specialty and service provision. The RCOG International Office works with other international organisations to help lower maternal morbidity and mortality in under-resourced countries.\n\nGynaecologic oncology is a subspecialty of gynaecology, dealing with gynaecology-related cancer.\n\nDespite the patients being predominantly female, like all specialist areas of health, historically gynaecology has been dominated by male doctors. However, in recent times as many of the barriers to access the education and training required to successfully practice gynaecology were removed, women have started to outnumber men in the field. There are a number of reasons for this, ranging from women being motivated to become gynaecologists after having bad experiences with male doctors to men choosing to specialize in different fields.\n\nPossible reasons reported for the decrease in male gynaecologists range from there being a perception of a lack of respect from other doctors towards them, distrust about their motivations for wanting to work exclusively with female sexual organs and questions about their overall character, as well as a concern about being associated with other male gynaecologists who have been arrested for sex offences and limited future employment opportunities.\n\nSurveys have also shown a large and consistent majority of women are uncomfortable being forced to have intimate exams done by a male doctor. They are also less likely to be embarrassed, so as a result talk more openly and in greater details, when discussing their sexual history with another woman rather than a man, leading to questions about the ability of male gynaecologists to offer quality care to patients. This, when coupled with more women choosing female physicians has decreased the employment opportunities for men choosing to become gynaecologists.\n\nIn the United States, it has been reported that 4 in 5 students choosing a residency in gynaecology are now female. In Sweden, to comply with discrimination laws, patients may not choose a doctor—regardless of specialty—based on factors such as ethnicity or gender and declining to see a doctor solely because of preference regarding e.g. the practitioner's skin color or gender may legally be viewed as refusing care. In Turkey, due to patient preference to be seen by another female, there are now few male gynaecologists working in the field.\n\nThere have been a number of legal challenges in the US against healthcare providers who have started hiring based on gender of physicians. Dr Mircea Veleanu argued, in part, that his former employers discriminated against him by accommodating the wishes of female patients who had requested female doctors for intimate exams. A male nurse complained about an advert for an all-female obstetrics and gynaecology practice in Columbia, Maryland claiming this was a form of sexual discrimination. Dr David Garfinkel, a New Jersey-based ob-gyn sued his former employer after being fired due to, as he claimed, \"because I was male, I wasn't drawing as many patients as they'd expected\".\n\nSo far, all legal challenges by male gynaecologists to remove patient choice have failed due to there being protection in law for 'bona fide occupational qualification' which in previous cases involving wash-room attendants and male nurses have recognized a justification for gender-based requirements for certain jobs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18335022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18335022", "title": "Heimar de Fátima Marin", "text": "Heimar de Fátima Marin\n\nHeimar de Fátima Marin, RN, MS, Ph.D., FACMI is a nurse who has devoted her professional career to improving patient care using information and communication technologies. She is full professor at the Federal University of São Paulo (UNIFESP). \n\nIn 2004 she was elected international member at the American College of Medical Informatics. Heimar Marin is also the president of Brazilian Society of Health Informatics (2002–2008); editor-in-chief of the \"International Journal of Medical Informatics\"; and vice-chair and elected chair (2009–2012) of the International Medical Informatics Association Nursing Informatics Special Interest Group (IMIA NI SIG). \n\nDr. Marin holds a position as visiting professor at Decision Systems Group at Harvard Medical School. She has over 250 publications. As a professor, she has mentored over 20 Ph.D. students, 32 master students, and 85 specialists in health and nursing informatics. Dr. Heimar Marin is a graduate of Nursing and holds a master's degree and doctoral degree in health informatics at UNIFESP. She is at the Medical School, State University of São Paulo (FM-USP). She is a fellow in Clinical Computing at the Center for Clinical Computing at Harvard Medical School.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21464996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21464996", "title": "Hospice", "text": "Hospice\n\nHospice care is a type of care and philosophy of care that focuses on the palliation of a chronically ill, terminally ill or seriously ill patient's pain and symptoms, and attending to their emotional and spiritual needs. In Western society, the concept of hospice has been evolving in Europe since the 11th century. Then, and for centuries thereafter in Roman Catholic tradition, hospices were places of hospitality for the sick, wounded, or dying, as well as those for travelers and pilgrims. The modern concept of hospice includes palliative care for the incurably ill given in such institutions as hospitals or nursing homes, but also care provided to those who would rather spend their last months and days of life in their own homes. The first modern hospice care was created by Cicely Saunders in 1967.\n\nIn the United States the term is largely defined by the practices of the Medicare system and other health insurance providers, which make hospice care available, either in an inpatient facility or at the patient's home, to patients with a terminal prognosis who are medically certified at hospice onset to have less than six months to live. According to the NHPCO [National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization] 2012 report on facts and figures of Hospice care, 66.4% received care in their place of residence and 26.1% in a Hospice inpatient facility. In the late 1970s the U.S. government began to view hospice care as a humane care option for the terminally ill. In 1982 Congress initiated the creation of the Medicare Hospice Benefit which became permanent in 1986. In 1993, President Clinton installed hospice as a guaranteed benefit and an accepted component of health care provisions. Outside the United States, the term \"hospice\" tends to be primarily associated with the particular buildings or institutions that specialize in such care (although so-called \"hospice at home\" services may also be available). Outside the United States such institutions may similarly provide care mostly in an end-of-life setting, but they may also be available for patients with other specific palliative care needs. Hospice care also involves assistance for patients’ families to help them cope with what is happening and provide care and support to keep the patient at home. Although the movement has met with some resistance, hospice has rapidly expanded through the United Kingdom, the United States and elsewhere.\n\nEtymologically, the word \"hospice\" derives from the Latin \"hospes\", a word which served double duty in referring both to guests and hosts. Historians believe the first hospices originated in the 11th century, around 1065. The rise of the Crusading movement in the 1090s saw the incurably ill permitted into places dedicated to treatment by Crusaders. In the early 14th century, the order of the Knights Hospitaller of St. John of Jerusalem opened the first hospice in Rhodes, meant to provide refuge for travelers and care for the ill and dying. Hospices flourished in the Middle Ages, but languished as religious orders became dispersed. They were revived in the 17th century in France by the Daughters of Charity of Saint Vincent de Paul. France continued to see development in the hospice field; the hospice of L'Association des Dames du Calvaire, founded by Jeanne Garnier, opened in 1843. Six other hospices followed before 1900.\n\nMeanwhile, hospices also developed in other areas. In the United Kingdom, attention was drawn to the needs of the terminally ill in the middle of the 19th century, with \"Lancet\" and the \"British Medical Journal\" publishing articles pointing to the need of the impoverished terminally ill for good care and sanitary conditions. Steps were taken to remedy inadequate facilities with the opening of the Friedenheim in London, which by 1892 offered 35 beds to patients dying of tuberculosis. Four more hospices were established in London by 1905. Australia, too, saw active hospice development, with notable hospices including the Home for Incurables in Adelaide (1879), the Home of Peace (1902) and the Anglican House of Peace for the Dying in Sydney (1907). In 1899, New York City saw the opening of St. Rose's Hospice by the Servants for Relief of Incurable Cancer, who soon expanded with six locations in other cities.\n\nThe more influential early developers of Hospice included the Irish Religious Sisters of Charity, who opened Our Lady's Hospice in Harold's Cross, Dublin, Ireland in 1879. It became very busy, with as many as 20,000 people—primarily suffering tuberculosis and cancer—coming to the hospice to die between 1845 and 1945. The Sisters of Charity expanded internationally, opening the Sacred Heart Hospice for the Dying in Sydney in 1890, with hospices in Melbourne and New South Wales following in the 1930s. In 1905, they opened St Joseph's Hospice in London. There in the 1950s Cicely Saunders developed many of the foundational principles of modern hospice care. Over the years these centers became more prompt and in the 1970s till now this is where they place people to live out their final day (DeSpelder, 2014).\n\nDame Cicely Saunders was a British registered nurse whose chronic health problems had forced her to pursue a career in medical social work. The relationship she developed with a dying Polish refugee helped solidify her ideas that terminally ill patients needed compassionate care to help address their fears and concerns as well as palliative comfort for physical symptoms. After the refugee's death, Saunders began volunteering at St Luke's Home for the Dying Poor, where a physician told her that she could best influence the treatment of the terminally ill as a physician. Saunders entered medical school while continuing her volunteer work at St. Joseph's. When she achieved her degree in 1957, she took a position there.\n\nSaunders emphasized focusing on the patient rather than the disease and introduced the notion of 'total pain', which included psychological and spiritual as well as the physical aspects. She experimented with a wide range of opioids for controlling physical pain but included also the needs of the patient's family.\n\nShe disseminated her philosophy internationally in a series of tours of the United States that began in 1963. In 1967, Saunders opened St Christopher's Hospice. Florence Wald, the dean of Yale School of Nursing who had heard Saunders speak in America, spent a month working with Saunders there in 1969 before bringing the principles of modern hospice care back to the United States, establishing Hospice, Inc. in 1971. Another early hospice program in the United States, Alive Hospice, was founded in Nashville, Tennessee, on November 14, 1975. By 1977 the National Hospice Organization had been formed, and by 1979, a president, Ann G. Blues, had been elected at the national meeting in Washington DC and principles of hospice care had been addressed. \nAt about the same time that Saunders was disseminating her theories and developing her hospice, in 1965, Swiss psychiatrist Elisabeth Kübler Ross also began to consider the social responses to terminal illness, which she found inadequate at the Chicago hospital where her American physician husband was employed. Her 1969 best-seller, \"On Death and Dying\", was influential on how the medical profession responded to the terminally ill, and along with Saunders and other thanatology pioneers helped to focus attention on the types of care available to them.\n\nHospice has faced resistance springing from various factors, including professional or cultural taboos against open communication about death among physicians or the wider population, discomfort with unfamiliar medical techniques, and professional callousness towards the terminally ill. Nevertheless, the movement has, with national differences in focus and application, spread throughout the world.\n\nIn 1984, Dr. Josefina Magno, who had been instrumental in forming the American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine and sat as first executive director of the US National Hospice Organization, founded the International Hospice Institute, which in 1996 became the International Hospice Institute and College and later the International Association for Hospice and Palliative Care (IAHPC). The IAHPC, with a board of directors as of 2008 from such diverse countries as Scotland, Argentina, China and Uganda, works from the philosophy that each country should develop a palliative care model based on its own resources and conditions, evaluating hospice experiences in other countries but adapting to their own needs. Dr. Derek Doyle, who was a founding member of IAHPC, told the \"British Medical Journal\" in 2003 that through her work the Philippine-born Magno had seen \"more than 8000 hospice and palliative services established in more than 100 countries.\" Standards for Palliative and Hospice Care have been developed in a number of countries around the world, including Australia, Canada, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Moldova, Norway, Poland, Romania, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\nIn 2006, the United States-based National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization (NHPCO) and the United Kingdom's Help the Hospices jointly commissioned an independent, international study of worldwide palliative care practices. Their survey found that 15% of the world's countries offered widespread palliative care services with integration into major health care institutions, while an additional 35% offered some form of palliative care services, though these might be localized or very limited. As of 2009, there were an estimated 10,000 programs internationally intended to provide palliative care, although the term hospice is not always employed to describe such services.\n\nIn hospice care the main guardians are the family care giver and a hospice nurse who makes periodic stops. Hospice can be administered in a nursing home, hospice building, or sometimes a hospital; however, it is most commonly practiced in the home. In order to be considered for hospice care, one has to be terminally ill or expected to die within six months.\n\nA hospice was opened in 1980 in Harare (Salisbury, at the time), Zimbabwe, the first in Sub-Saharan Africa. In spite of skepticism in the medical community, the hospice movement spread, and in 1987 the Hospice Palliative Care Association of South Africa formed. In 1990, Nairobi Hospice opened in Nairobi, Kenya. As of 2006, Kenya, South Africa and Uganda were among the 35 countries of the world offering widespread, well-integrated palliative care. Programs there are based on the United Kingdom model, but focus less on in-patient care, emphasizing home-based assistance.\n\nSince the foundation of hospice in Kenya in the early 1990s, palliative care has spread through the country. Representatives of Nairobi Hospice sit on the committee to develop a Health Sector Strategic Plan for the Ministry of Health and are working with the Ministry of Health to help develop specific palliative care guidelines for cervical cancer. The Government of Kenya has supported hospice by donating land to Nairobi Hospice and providing funding to several of its nurses.\n\nIn South Africa, hospice services are widespread, focusing on diverse communities (including orphans and homeless) and offered in diverse settings (including in-patient, day care and home care). Over half of hospice patients in South Africa in the 2003–2004 year were diagnosed with AIDS, with the majority of the remaining having been diagnosed with cancer. Palliative care in South Africa is supported by the Hospice Palliative Care Association of South Africa and by national programmes partly funded by the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.\n\nHospice Africa Uganda (HAU) founded by Anne Merriman, began offering services in 1993 in a two-bedroom house loaned for the purpose by Nsambya Hospital. HAU has since expanded to a base of operations at Makindye, Kampala, with hospice services also offered at roadside clinics by Mobile Hospice Mbarara since January 1998. That same year saw the opening of Little Hospice Hoima in June. Hospice care in Uganda is supported by community volunteers and professionals, as Makerere University offers a distance diploma in palliative care. The government of Uganda has a strategic plan for palliative care and permits nurses and clinical officers from HAU to prescribe morphine.\n\nCanadian physician Balfour Mount, who first coined the term \"palliative care\", was a pioneer in the Canadian hospice movement, which focuses primarily on palliative care in a hospital setting. Having read the work of Kubler-Ross, Mount set out to study the experiences of the terminally ill at Royal Victoria Hospital, Montreal; the \"abysmal inadequacy\", as he termed it, that he found prompted him to spend a week with Saunders at St. Christopher's. Inspired, Mount decided to adapt Saunders' model for Canada. Given differences in medical funding in Canada, he determined that a hospital-based approach would be more affordable, creating a specialized ward at Royal Victoria in January, 1975. For Canada, whose official languages include English and French, Mount felt the term \"palliative care ward\" would be more appropriate, as the word \"hospice\" was already used in France to refer to nursing homes. Hundreds of palliative care programs followed throughout Canada through the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nHowever, as of 2004, according to the Canadian Hospice Palliative Care Association (CHPCA), hospice palliative care was only available to 5-15% of Canadians, with available services having decreased with reduced government funding. At that time, Canadians were increasingly expressing a desire to die at home, but only two of Canada's ten provinces were provided medication cost coverage for care provided at home. Only four of the ten identified palliative care as a core health service. At that time, palliative care was not widely taught at nursing schools or universally certified at medical colleges; there were only 175 specialized palliative care physicians in all of Canada.\n\nHospice in the United States has grown from a volunteer-led movement to improve care for people dying alone, isolated, or in hospitals, to a significant part of the health care system. In 2010, an estimated 1.581 million patients received services from hospice. Hospice is the only Medicare benefit that includes pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, twenty-four-hour/seven-day-a-week access to care, and support for loved ones following a death. Hospice care is also covered by Medicaid and most private insurance plans. Most hospice care is delivered at home. Hospice care is also available to people in home-like hospice residences, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, veterans' facilities, hospitals, and prisons. The first hospice in the US was the Connecticut Hospice, located in Branford, Connecticut.\n\nThe first United States hospital-based palliative care programs began in the late 1980s by committed volunteers across the country. The first hospital-based palliative care consult service developed in the United States was the Wayne State University School of Medicine in 1985 at Detroit Receiving Hospital. The first United States-based palliative medicine and hospice service program was started in 1987 by Declan Walsh, MD at the Cleveland Clinic Cancer Center in Cleveland, Ohio. The program evolved into The Harry R. Horvitz Center for Palliative Medicine which was designated as a World Health Organization international demonstration project and accredited by the European Society of Medical Oncology as an Integrated Center of Oncology and Palliative Care. Other programs followed: most notable the Palliative Care Program at the Medical College of Wisconsin (1993); Pain and Palliative Care Service, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (1996); and The Lilian and Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute, Mount Sinai School of Medicine (1997). By 1995, hospices were a $2.8 billion industry in the United States, with $1.9 billion from Medicare alone funding patients in 1,857 hospice programs with Medicare certification. In that year, 72% of hospice providers were non-profit. By 1998, there were 3,200 hospices either in operation or under development throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, according to the NHPCO. According to 2007's \"Last Rights: Rescuing the End of Life from the Medical System\", hospice sites are expanding at a national rate of about 3.5% per year. As of 2008, approximately 900,000 people in the United States were using hospice every year, with more than one-third of dying Americans using the service.\n\nHospice plays an important role in reducing Medicare costs. Over the past 20–30 years 27-30% of Medicare's total budget was spent on individuals in their last year of life. Hospice care reduces ER visits and inpatient hospitalization which are costly and emotionally traumatizing for both the patient and their loved ones.\n\nHospice care may involve not treating illnesses. Patients and family members should understand the care or lack of care that is planned. If one has pneumonia, it may (or may not) be treated. If not treated, this might actually increase suffering. If the illness of the patient is not related to the terminal illness covered under the clinical determination of eligibility, the patient may seek standard treatment to address the cause of the suffering if they request such treatment. Any Medicare services received by a hospice patient are covered under original Medicare including those hospice patients who have a Medicare Advantage plan and also services provided by a primary care physician for unrelated hospice treatments.\n\nThe hospice movement has grown dramatically in the United Kingdom since Dame Cicely Saunders opened St Christopher's Hospice in 1967, widely considered the first modern hospice. According to the UK's Help the Hospices, in 2011 UK hospice services consisted of 220 inpatient units for adults with 3,175 beds, 42 inpatient units for children with 334 beds, 288 home care services, 127 hospice at home services, 272 day care services, and 343 hospital support services. These services together helped over 250,000 patients in 2003 and 2004. Funding varies from 100% funding by the National Health Service to almost 100% funding by charities, but the service is always free to patients. The UK's palliative care has been ranked as the best in the world \"due to comprehensive national policies, the extensive integration of palliative care into the National Health Service, a strong hospice movement, and deep community engagement on the issue.\"\n\nAs of 2006 about 4% of all deaths in England and Wales occurred in a hospice setting (about 20,000 patients); a further number of patients spent time in a hospice, or were helped by hospice-based support services, but died elsewhere.\n\nHospices also provide volunteering opportunities for over 100,000 people in the UK, whose economic value to the hospice movement has been estimated at over £112 million.\n\nHospice Care in Australia predates the opening of St Christophers in London by 79 years. The establishment by the Irish Sisters of Charity of hospices in Sydney (1889) and in Melbourne (1938). The first hospice in New Zealand opened in 1979.\nHospice care entered Poland in the middle of the 1970s. Japan opened its first hospice in 1981, officially hosting 160 by July 2006. The first hospice unit in Israel was opened in 1983. India's first hospice, Shanti Avedna Ashram, opened in Bombay in 1986. First hospice in the Nordics has been operating in Tampere, Finland since 1988. The first modern free-standing hospice in China opened in Shanghai in 1988. The first hospice unit in Taiwan, where the term for hospice translates \"peaceful care\", was opened in 1990. The first free-standing hospice in Hong Kong, where the term for hospice translates \"well-ending service\", opened in 1992. The first hospice in Russia was established in 1997.\n\nSince 2006 the World Hospice and Palliative Care Day is organised by a committee of the Worldwide Palliative Care Alliance, a network of hospice and palliative care national and regional organisations that support the development of hospice and palliative care worldwide. The event takes place on the second Saturday of October every year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56625980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56625980", "title": "Joseph Doyle (economist)", "text": "Joseph Doyle (economist)\n\nJoseph J. Doyle Jr. is a U.S. American economist and the Erwin H. Schell Professor of Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management. His research focuses on the public economics of healthcare and child welfare. He currently serves as co-director of the MIT Sloan Initiative for Health Systems Innovation and as co-chair of the Health Sector of the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL).\n\nJoseph Doyle earned a B.A. from Cornell University in 1996, after which he worked as an assistant economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (1996–98) while studying at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences (1997–98). Thereafter, Doyle obtained a Ph.D. in economics with a focus on econometrics and the economics of the public sector from the University of Chicago in 2002. After completing his studies, he began his career at the MIT Sloan School of Management as an assistant professor (2002–05). In 2005, Doyle became the Jon D. Gruber Career Development Assistant Professor (2005–08), then associate professor (2008–09), the Alfred Henry and Jean Morrison Hayes Career Development Associate Professor (2009-2013), and has been the Erwin H. Schell Professor of Management since 2013. In parallel, Doyle has held visiting appointments at the Paris School of Economics (2010) and the European University Institute (2017-18). Doyle is co-director of the MIT Sloan Initiative for Health Systems Innovation and maintains professional affiliations with the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL) as co-chair of its Health Sector, with the NBER as research associate, and with the Danish National Centre for Social Research as a research fellow. Moreover, he performs editorial duties at the \"Journal of Human Resources\", served as co-editor of the \"Journal of Public Economics\" (2012–16) and is a member of the American Economic Association as well as of the American Society of Health Economists.\n\nJoseph Doyle's research interests include public economics, health economics, and labour economics. Key findings of his research include the following:\n\nIn particular, Doyle's research with Douglas Almond, Heidi Williams and Amanda E. Kowalski on the marginal returns of medical care for at-risk newborns was awarded the Garfield Economic Impact Award by Research!America in 2011. The study showed that medical care prescribed as a result of newborns being slightly below the critical birthweight threshold of 1,500 grams was effective in substantially decreasing the mortality of these newborns relative to newborns slightly above the threshold. The authors then use the cost of the decrease in mortality rates for these newborns to estimate the cost for saving a newborn's statistical life to be about $550,000 in 2006 US$, i.e. well below common estimates of the value of a full statistical life.\n\n"}
{"id": "7452877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7452877", "title": "Kefauver Harris Amendment", "text": "Kefauver Harris Amendment\n\nThe U.S. Kefauver Harris Amendment or \"Drug Efficacy Amendment\" is a 1962 amendment to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.\n\nIt introduced a requirement for drug manufacturers to provide proof of the effectiveness and safety of their drugs before approval, required drug advertising to disclose accurate information about side effects, and stopped cheap generic drugs being marketed as expensive drugs under new trade names as new \"breakthrough\" medications.\n\nThe amendment was a response to the Thalidomide tragedy, in which thousands of children were born with birth defects as a result of their mothers taking thalidomide for morning sickness during pregnancy. The bill by U.S. Senator Estes Kefauver, of Tennessee, and U.S. Representative Oren Harris, of Arkansas, required drug manufacturers to provide proof of the effectiveness and safety of their drugs before approval. It should be noted that Thalidomide had not been approved for use in the United States and that the tragic birth defects that occurred were in other countries. Frances Oldham Kelsey was the FDA reviewer who refused to approve Thalidomide for use.\n\nIt introduced a \"proof-of-efficacy\" requirement for the first time. In addition, the Amendment required drug advertising to disclose accurate information about side effects and efficacy of treatments. Finally, cheap generic drugs could no longer be marketed as expensive drugs under new trade names as new \"breakthrough\" medications.\n\nThe law was signed by President John F. Kennedy on October 10, 1962.\n\nThe Kefauver Harris Amendment strengthened the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's control of experimentation on humans and changed the way new drugs are approved and regulated. Before the Thalidomide scandal in Europe, and Canada, U.S. drug companies only had to show their new products were safe. After the passage of the Amendment, an FDA New Drug Application (NDA) would have to show that a new drug was both safe and effective (previously the 1938 Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act was the main law that regulated drug safety). Informed consent was required of patients participating in clinical trials, and adverse drug reactions were required to be reported to the FDA.\n\nThe Drug Efficacy Study Implementation was begun to classify all pre-1962 drugs that were already on the market as either effective, ineffective, or needing further study.\n\nEstes Kefauver considered the Amendment his \"finest achievement\" in consumer protection.\n\nLouis Lasagna, then a prominent clinical pharmacologist at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, advised Congress about the proper conduct of clinical research during the 1962 hearings leading up to passage of the Amendment.\n\nThe law also exempted from the \"Delaney clause\" (a 1958 amendment to the Food, Drugs, and Cosmetic Act of 1938) certain animal drugs and animal feed additives shown to induce cancer, but which left no detectable levels of residue in the human food supply.\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "39488608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39488608", "title": "List of cuisines of the Americas", "text": "List of cuisines of the Americas\n\nThis is a list of cuisines of the Americas. A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions, often associated with a specific culture. The cuisines found across North and South America are based on the cuisines of the countries from which the immigrant peoples came, primarily Europe. However, the traditional European cuisine has been adapted by the addition of many local ingredients, and many techniques have been added to the tradition as well.\n\n\n\n\nThe dishes made in the previously British and French Islands and territories in the Caribbean are much more diverse than the islands colonized by Spanish due to a history of changing colonial administration or ownership (between British, French, Dutch and Spanish), and the migration of diverse groups brought to work on plantations including Indians from Indian, Chinese and Portuguese (Madeira and Azores).\n\nThere is even much diversity within each previous colonial groupings. While both Trinidad and Jamaica were both British colonies and share similar cooking styles, the scope of dishes in Trinidad are different and more diverse due to a very different population make up. \nThe similarities in the larger region lie mostly in the fruits and vegetables consumed and the ingredients used in cooking, with the use of root vegetables, plantains, beans, and rice, fish and seafood being a common denominator. In the post independence and post colonial era, and with globalization in the 1990s cultural and food similarities between the previous British, still French and Dutch Island and territories were magnified. \n\n"}
{"id": "46500642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46500642", "title": "List of microbiota species of the lower reproductive tract of women", "text": "List of microbiota species of the lower reproductive tract of women\n\nThis is the list of healthy vaginal microbiota (VMB), which is defined as the group of species and genera that generally are found to have lack of symptoms, absence of various infections, and result in good pregnancy outcomes. VMB is dominated mainly by Lactobacillus species. This is the list of organisms that are found in the lower reproductive tract of sexually mature women who are not immunocompromised. A partial description of pathogens that can be found in the lower and upper reproductive tract of women can be found in the article sexually transmitted disease. The organisms listed below are capable of causing illness if for some reason there is a change in vaginal pH or a change in the ratio of one organism to another. For example, \"Candida\" is a normal inhabitant of a healthy reproductive tract but an overgrowth of this organism can cause candidiasis.\n\nThis is the list of the normal flora that are found in the lower reproductive tract of sexually mature women who exhibit no symptoms of illness and who are not immunocompromised. \"Lactobacilli\" predominate. These organisms protect against infection. Vaginal microbiota composition may have a genetic component.\n\nThese bacteria may be detected as transients or are marginally discernable with PCR techniques. They are also opportunistic pathogens and their overgrowth is considered an infection though symptoms and signs may be absent.\n\nWhile the vaginal microbiota is populated predominantly by \"Lactobacillus\" spp. in 71% of women, 29% of asymptomatic, healthy women possess a microbiota essentially lacking in \"Lactobacillus\" and instead the following groups have been isolated from this population. This microbiota is affiliated with ethnicity:\n\n\"Candida albicans\" and other spp.\n\nPre-pubescent girls, women in menarch, and postmenopausal women have lower populations of \"Lactobacillus\" spp. in proportion to the other species. Hormone replacement therapy in postmenopausal women restores the microbiota to that of a reproductive-aged woman. The microbiota populations change in response to the menstrual cycle. Pregnancy alters the microbiota, with a reduction in species/genus diversity.\nOvergrowth of \"Candida albicans\" or other \"Candida\" (yeast infections) sometimes occurs after antibiotic therapy. Bacterial vaginosis results in altered populations and ratios of the normal microbiota.\nThere has been no link demonstrated between taking oral probiotics and maintaining normal microbiota populations of lactobacilli.\n\n"}
{"id": "1339605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1339605", "title": "Melarsoprol", "text": "Melarsoprol\n\nMelarsoprol is a medication used for the treatment of sleeping sickness (African trypanosomiasis). It is specifically used for second-stage disease caused by \"Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense\" when the central nervous system is involved. For \"Trypanosoma brucei gambiense\", the medication eflornithine is usually preferred. It is effective in about 95% of people. It is given by injection into a vein.\nMelarsoprol has a high number of side effects. Common side effects include brain dysfunction, numbness, rashes, and kidney and liver problems. About 1-5% of people die during treatment. In those with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency, red blood cell breakdown may occur. It has not been studied in pregnancy. It works by blocking pyruvate kinase, an enzyme required for the parasite to make adenosine triphosphate.\nMelarsoprol has been used medically since 1949. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. In regions of the world where the disease is common, melarsoprol is provided for free by the World Health Organization. It is not commercially available in Canada or the United States. In the United States, it may be obtained from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, while in Canada it is available from Health Canada.\n\nPeople diagnosed with trypanosome-caused disease should be treated with an anti-trypanosomal. Treatment is based on stage, 1 or 2, and parasite,\"T. b. rhodesiense\" or \"T. b. gambiense\". In stage 1 disease, trypanosomes are present only in the peripheral circulation. In stage 2 disease, trypanosomes have crossed the blood brain barrier and are present in the central nervous system.\n\nThe following are considerable treatment options:\n\nMelarsoprol is a treatment used during the second stage of the disease. So far, it is the only treatment available for late-stage \"T. b. rhodesiense\".\n\nDue to high toxicity, melarsoprol is reserved only for the most dangerous cases. Other agents associated with lower toxicity levels are used during stage 1 of the disease. The approval of the nifurtimox-eflornithine combination therapy (NECT) in 2009 for the treatment of \"T. b. gambiense\" limited the use of melarsoprol in the treatment of second-stage \"T. b. rhodesiense\".\n\nFailure rates of 27% in certain African countries have been reported. This was caused by both drug resistance and additional mechanisms that have not yet been elucidated. Resistance is likely due to transport problems associated with the P2 transporter, an adenine-adenosine transporter. Resistance can occur with point mutations within this transporter. Resistance has been present since the 1970s.\n\nAlthough melarsoprol cures about 96% of people with late stage disease, its toxicity limits its use. About 1-5% of people die during treatment. As a toxic organic compound of arsenic, melarsoprol is a dangerous treatment that is typically only administered by injection under the supervision of a licensed physician. Notable side effects are similar to arsenic poisoning. Among clinicians, it is colloquially referred to as \"arsenic in antifreeze\". Severe and life-threatening adverse reactions are associated with melarsoprol. It is known to cause a range of side effects including convulsions, fever, loss of consciousness, rashes, bloody stools, nausea and vomiting. In approximately 5-10% of cases, it causes encephalopathy. Of those, about 50% die due to encephalopathy-related adverse reactions. Additional potentially serious side effects of melarsoprol include damage to the heart, presence of albumin in the urine that could be associated with kidney damage, and an increase in blood pressure.\n\nNumerous warnings must be examined before melarsoprol treatment can be initiated. Prior to initiation, the following must be noted: glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, kidney or liver disease, cardiac problems (high blood pressure, irregular beating of the heart or arrhythmias, any damage to the heart muscles and potential signs of heart failure), preexisting nervous system disorders, and any signs of leprosy.\n\nRoutine laboratory testing is needed before and after melarsoprol initiation. Laboratory parameters for both therapeutic effects and toxic effects need to be evaluated.\n\nBlood analysis is used to detect the presence of trypanosomes. An evaluation of the cerebrospinal fluid via a lumbar puncture is also used to determine an individual's white blood count and level of protein. These are diagnostic criteria such that the presence of trypanosomes, an elevated white blood count greater than five per microliter, or a protein content greater than 40 mg are considered abnormal and initiation should be considered. Continuous cerebrospinal fluid evaluation should be repeated every six months for at least three years in individuals that have undergone melarsoprol treatment.\n\nTo assess potential concerns related to toxicity, the following should be completed: a complete blood count, an assessment of electrolyte levels, liver and kidney function tests, and a urinalysis to detect the appearance, concentration and content of the urine.\n\nCurrently, melarsoprol is not recommended for use in pregnant women. The World Health Organization suggests that treatment be deferred until immediately after delivery since the effects of the medication on the developing fetus have not yet been established.\n\nLactation guidelines associated with melarsoprol have not yet been established.\n\nMelarsoprol is a prodrug, which is metabolized to melarsen oxide (Mel Ox) as its active form. Mel Ox is an arsen-oxide that irreversibly binds to vicinal sulfhydryl groups on pyruvate kinase, which disrupts energy production in the parasite. The inability to distinguish between host and parasites renders this drug highly toxic with many side effects.\n\nMel Ox reacts with trypanothione (a spermidine-glutathione adduct that replaces glutathione in trypanosomes). By binding to this adduct, it forms a melarsen oxide-trypanothione adduct (Mel T) that competitively inhibits trypanothione reductase, effectively killing the parasitic cell.\n\nTwo arsenic-containing stereoisomers exist in a 3:1 molar ratio. Since melarsarprol is insoluble in water, dosage occurs via a 3.6% propylene glycol intravenous injection. To avoid the risk of injection site reactions, melarsoprol must be given slowly.\n\nMelarsoprol used for the treatment of African trypanosomiasis with CNS involvement is given under a complicated dosing schedule. The dosing schedule for children and adults is 2-3.6 mg/kg/day intravenously for three days, then repeated every seven days for a total of three series. To monitor for relapse, follow-up is recommended every 6 months for at least 2 years.\n\nThe half-life of melarsoprol is less than one hour, but bioassays indicate a 35-hour half-life. This is commonly associated with pharmacologic agents that have active metabolites. One such metabolite, Mel Ox, reaches maximum plasma levels about 15 minutes after melarsoprol injection. Melarsoprol clearance is 21.5 ml/min/kg and the Mel Ox half-life is approximately 3.9 hours.\n\nMelarsoprol is produced by Sanofi-Aventis and under an agreement with WHO, they donate melarsoprol to countries where the disease is common.\n"}
{"id": "47641074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47641074", "title": "Methamphetamine use in Australia", "text": "Methamphetamine use in Australia\n\nMethamphetamine is an illegal substance sought after by many in Australia to give oneself a ‘high’ or a ‘rush’ in their body. Methamphetamine has many names not only in Australia, but also around the world. These include Chalk, Crypto, Getgo, Tweak, and Cristy, although the two most common ones in Australia today are Speed and Ice. Users of this drug often feel senses of exhilaration and arousal as the brain is flooded with monoamines which kill receptors and leaves them wanting more as it is the only way they can have these sensations following use of the drug, and kills the remaining receptors.\n\nMethamphetamine was synthesized in Japan during 1893 from a drug called ephedrine; and since then has changed into a variety of different forms. Australia has a drug scene which is increasing with the demand for drugs like methamphetamine since the start of 2000. As of April 2017, Australia has the highest methamphetamine addiction rate in the world.\n\nMethamphetamine was first synthesized in Japan by a chemist named Nagai; however, it did not come into prominent public view until the early 1990s when the Australian Federal Police (AFP) was warned of a new drug called \"Ice\" coming from overseas. During 1991, Hong Kong, Japan and Australia pooled their resources together to seize 80 kilograms of the methamphetamine drug which was believed to be manufactured in China.\n\nSince then, methamphetamine has been readily made available in many forms to have a spike in 2001 to 2003 where the Australian Customs detected increasingly large quantities crossing the Australia Border. This is portrayed with the statistics of seizures from 1996 to 1997 being 156 kilograms increasing over tenfold to 1.8 tonnes during 2001 to 2002. This trend has been continuing to the present day. Today, the drug is in high demand all across Australia, and with this the authorities have been seizing large quantities on a regular basis.\n\nDuring November 2014, the AFP successfully intercepted and seized Australia’s second largest drug bust which weighed in at 2.8 Tonnes, which included 1.917 tonnes of MDMA and 849 kilograms of methamphetamine. This made the bust be the largest methamphetamine seizure and the second largest MDMA bust by the AFP since the first seizure in 1997.\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> Information in regards to selling and supply also, possession of a classified substance is classed differently in each state. Some have small trafficable quantities, trafficable, large trafficable and commercial trafficable quantities as legislative policies. \n\n<nowiki>***</nowiki> Intent to sell and supply comes under trafficking laws in some states in Australia depending upon the amount of prohibited substance.\n\nBetween 2009 and 2010 there were 41,087 illicit drug offenses in Australia. Between 2013 and 2014 this number increased by over 25 percent to 50,854 drug offenses; furthermore, drug use increased from 22,842 to 28,409 over the same period of time. This portrays an increasing trend in the amount of drug use in Australia and drug offenses. However, since methamphetamine has become more available in the drug scene in Australia, it has developed and stronger forms of methamphetamine such as Crystal Methamphetamine has in turn increased in the usages over the past decade. In studies conducted by the Australian Government, between 1998 and 2010 there has been a slight decrease in the methamphetamine drug use in Australia; furthermore, between 2007 and 2010 methamphetamine use in males decreased from 9.8% to 6.8%. Since 2007, the trend has decreased in association to drug use with methamphetamine; however, after 2010 the trend according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics indicate an increase in drug use and drug offenses occurring in Australia.\n\nMethamphetamine use is an increasing problem in Australia, as it becomes more readily available. In a study of injecting drug users, 53% of a group of 914 candidates reported that methamphetamine was their first drug injected into their bodies; however, the study continued to convey the point that it is a young adults' drug. During the last six months, 87% of injecting drug users under the age of 25 were reported to have used methamphetamine in the last 6 months, with 25 to 35-year-olds at 80% and 35 years and above at 74%.\n\nThe Australian Institute of Health and Welfare reported that males were more likely than females to use methamphetamine (8.2% to 5.9% respectively) and 20- to 29-year-olds were most likely to have used methamphetamine recently. The study also found, for people aged 14 years or older, the highest level of recent methamphetamine use was found among those who stated they were homosexual/bisexual (7.1%). Methamphetamine use was also high among unemployed people (4.8%), those who had never been married (3.8%) and single people without children (3.4%).\n\n"}
{"id": "25713465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25713465", "title": "Millennium Foundation", "text": "Millennium Foundation\n\nThe Millennium Foundation for Innovative Finance for Health is an independent, non-profit Swiss organization, established in November 2008 in order to create new ways to finance health systems in low- and middle-income countries. Based in Geneva, Switzerland, the Millennium Foundation aims to ensure that international commitments on improving health care are met through the development of innovative financing projects. Its first such project – called MassiveGood – was launched on 4 March, and will give travelers the possibility to add a $2, £2 or €2 micro-contribution to the purchase of a travel reservation, with all proceeds going to the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.\n\nIn 2000 the United Nations agreed to achieve eight international development goals by the year 2015, called the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Three of these goals are health related – to treat and fight life-threatening diseases, including HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis; to reduce childhood mortality; and to improve maternal health. Despite repeated commitments to the three health-related MDGs and increased funding available for development, HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis still have appalling human and economic consequences in developing countries. Official Development Assistance has been increasing in the past few years but cannot keep up with the damage done by the economic crisis on low- and middle-income countries. In order to bridge this financing gap, the international community has looked into new funding mechanisms. The Taskforce on Innovative International Funding for Health Systems issued in June 2009 a report acknowledging the potential of innovative sources of funding: Innovative Financing projects that have sprouted up in the past decade include Product Red, the International Finance Facility for Immunization, the Global Fund, the GAVI and UNITAID. UNITAID is funded by a small tax on airlines tickets levied in 12 countries and budgetary contributions from 17 countries. Since 2006, UNITAID has committed over US$730 million to support 16 projects in 93 countries.\n\nMassiveGood, the Millennium Foundation’s first innovative finance project, was unveiled at the United Nations General Assembly on 23 September 2009 during a meeting of the Task Force for Innovative Finance for Health, spearheaded by UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown and World Bank President Robert Zoellick. The original idea was conceived by Jean-François Rial, the head of a French travel agency, after officials from George W. Bush's administration rejected the idea of a tax on airline tickets in the United States. MassiveGood gave travelers the option to make a $2, €2 or £2 micro-contribution towards major global health causes when they bought an airline ticket, reserved a hotel room, rented a car, or travel product. Funds were used to provide drugs to reduce child mortality, improve maternal health and combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.\n\nThese contributions went to the Spanish Red Cross and UNITAID, which has a wide range of partners in developing countries including the Clinton Foundation, UNICEF, the World Health Organization, UNAIDS, the Global Fund, the Roll Back Malaria (RBM) Partnership, Stop TB Partnership and the Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics. Additional funding was aimed towards improving maternal and child health in the developing world. Supporters of the project included Bill Clinton, will.i.am, Samuel L. Jackson, Susan Sarandon, David Guetta, Spike Lee, Mary J. Blige, Yvonne Chaka Chaka, Paul Auster and Brian Greene.\n\nMassiveGood was launched on 4 March 2010 in the USA, and successfully rolled out in Spain in June 2010. It was discontinued by the Board of the Millennium Foundation on 4 November 2011, citing insufficient returns \"for such a micro-philanthropy initiative in today’s economic climate\".\n\nThe Millennium Foundation is a public-private initiative governed by a Board composed of representatives of participating Governments, such as the United Kingdom, France, Norway, Brazil, Chile, the Republic of Korea and a representative of the African Union; representatives of NGOs working on malaria, tuberculosis or HIV/AIDS and of communities living with diseases; and representatives of the Gates Foundation and of the private sector. The UN World Health Organization serves on the board as an observer.\nThe Board of the Millennium Foundation is chaired by Dr. Philippe Douste-Blazy, who currently serves as Special Adviser on Innovative Financing for Development to the United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon, and also acts as Chairman of the Board of UNITAID. Mr. Henk Mulder is the Managing Director and leads the strategic vision for the Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1330218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1330218", "title": "Monitoring the Future", "text": "Monitoring the Future\n\nThe Monitoring the Future (MTF) study, also known as the National High School Senior Survey, is a long-term epidemiological study that surveys trends in legal and illicit drug use among American adolescents and adults as well as personal levels of perceived risk and disapproval for each drug. The survey is conducted by researchers at the University of Michigan's Institute for Social Research, funded by research grants from the National Institute on Drug Abuse, one of the National Institutes of Health.\n\nThe survey began in 1975 and only focused on that year's senior class. Questionnaires are sent out yearly by mail. Beginning in 1976, a proportion of survey participants were also chosen for biennial reevaluations. In 1991, the survey was expanded to include 8th and 10th grade students. The questionnaire is anonymous for 8th- and 10th-grade students while the questionnaire for 12th-grade students is confidential—name and address information is collected for longitudinal follow-up surveys.\n\nNationally representative samples of 8th-, 10th-, and 12th-grade students (The 2010 MTF survey encompassed about 46,500 students from almost 400 schools nationwide) receive a questionnaire investigating substance use patterns, attitudes and beliefs about drugs, perceived availability of drugs, and norms among peer and role model groups. Currently, approximately 50,000 8th, 10th and 12th-grade students complete the survey annually.\n\nThe survey also evaluates a variety of topics beyond drug use. Questionnaire questions also explore subjects' occupational and educational plans and experiences, attitudes about gender roles, attitudes and experiences with people of a different race/ethnicity, trust in government and other institutions, concerns about the environment, media consumption, victimization and delinquency, among other things. Follow-up studies into adulthood also cover marriage and family formation, college attendance, military service, civilian employment, unemployment, and other topics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7022694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7022694", "title": "Orlík Dam", "text": "Orlík Dam\n\nThe Orlík Dam () is the largest hydroelectric dam in the Czech Republic. It dams the Vltava River near the village of Solenice, which is near the town of Příbram. The structure is named after Orlík Castle, which is situated a few kilometers above the dam. The dam has four turbines with a nominal capacity of 91 MW each having a total capacity of 364 MW.\n\n"}
{"id": "53631421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53631421", "title": "Parasitic flies of domestic animals", "text": "Parasitic flies of domestic animals\n\nMany species of flies of the two-winged type, Order Diptera, such as mosquitoes, horse-flies, blow-flies and warble-flies cause direct parasitic disease to domestic animals, and transmit organisms that cause diseases. These infestations and infections cause distress to companion animals, and in livestock industry the financial costs of these diseases are high. These problems occur wherever domestic animals are reared. This article provides an overview of parasitic flies from a veterinary perspective, with emphasis on the disease causing relationships between these flies and their host animals. The article is organized following the taxonomic hierarchy of these flies in the Phylum Arthropoda, Order Insecta. Families and genera of dipteran flies are emphasized rather than many individual species. Disease caused by the feeding activity of the flies is described here under Parasitic disease. Disease caused by small pathogenic organisms that pass from the flies to domestic animals is described here under Transmitted organisms; prominent examples are provided from the many species.\n\nDisease caused by the feeding activity of dipteran flies is described here under Parasitic disease. Disease caused by small pathogenic organisms that pass from the flies to domestic animals is described here under Transmitted organisms; these organisms are often of numerous species thus only prominent examples are provided. Feeding by adult flies may cause irritation through to acute stress from painful bites, resulting in loss of grazing time and reduced gain in weight. Feeding by adult flies on the blood of their hosts exposes the hosts to pathogenic organisms that are infecting the fly, this can lead to acute disease of the host's blood and other organs. Feeding by adult flies using their sponging mouthparts can also expose the hosts to pathogenic organisms that have contaminated the mouthparts. Larvae of some flies are adapted to feed on the tissues of their host causing direct pathological damage to organs, this is known as myiasis.\n\nAntennae are usually long, with many similar and symmetric segments. These are small to very small flies, usually of delicate morphology with relatively long legs and wings. Body and wings are often covered in fine scales. Thorax is distinctly humped, abdomen is elongated. All species of veterinary and medical importance are blood feeders, with various types of mouthparts (these variations do not relate clearly to dipteran taxonomy).\nLife-cycle is a complete metamorphosis with larvae that are non-parasitic, living in environments such as pools of water, soil, streams. A complete metamorphosis is illustrated by the photograph of \"Stomoxys\" eggs, larvae and adult (\"Stomoxys\" are in sub-order Brachycera). Only females feed on blood, taking a large meal to support production of several hundred eggs, followed by several more cycles of blood meal followed by egg laying. Males feed on plant nectar and similar sources of sugars.\n\nNematocerans are very important as transmitters of viruses, protozoa, and nematode worms. Also they are often important for biting stress when in large numbers, and may cause allergic reactions at their feeding sites. A typical pathway of transmission of organisms by blood feeding flies is shown below as a virus transmitted by an adult fly that feeds repeatedly on several hosts (see diagram for Biological transmission, and photograph of \"Culicoides\"). Insects that transmit pathogenic organisms are commonly known as vectors. The diagram shows what is known as biological transmission (= developmental transmission) because it is necessary for the transmitted organism to develop in the fly to the state where the organism is at an infective stage of its life cycle. The repeated cycles of egg laying and feeding of the female fly (= gonotrophic cycle) provides the opportunity for the transmitted organisms to develop, multiply and be exposed to further vertebrate hosts where they can complete their life cycle. Only the adult flies are involved in this biological transmission, in contrast to biological transmission by other arthropods such as lice or ticks in which all active stages of the life-cycle feed on blood.\n\nTypical genera are \"Culex\", \"Aedes\", and \"Anopheles\".\n\nThe basic structure of dipteran flies is illustrated in the diagram. Veterinary parasitology also covers arthropods in the Class Acari, the ticks of domestic animals and mites of livestock which have distinctly different structure from arthropods in the Class Insecta. However, flies in the Order Diptera show clear division of the body into head, thorax and abdomen with distinct segmentation of the thorax and abdomen. The thorax contains large blocks of muscle that power the single pair of wings. Digestive and reproductive organs fill the abdomen. Also unique to the Diptera is a pair of halteres (derived from wings during evolution) that aid agile flight by these flies. Mosquitoes have veined and scaled wings, long legs, long hypodermic mouthparts sheathed in a protective labium (see photograph of \"Aedes\" female engorged with blood). Adult females lay eggs in batches on surface of stagnant water. Larvae feed on microorganisms and organic detritus in water. Pupation occurs at the surface of the water. Feeding by females is on a wide variety of mammals and birds, whilst males feed on plant sugars.\n\nBiting stress can be severe in varied climatic regions (cold northern or tropics) or conditions of much surface water available for breeding where populations of mosquitoes can become dense. Species of \"Aedes\", \"Anopheles\" and \"Psorophora\" genera transmit equine encephalitis viruses to horses. \"Culex\", \"Aedes\" and \"Anopheles\" species of mosquito transmit \"Plasmodium\" protozoa that cause types of malaria in birds. \"Culex\" mosquitoes transmit West Nile virus between birds and horses; they transmit Rift Valley fever virus to livestock species and humans. The nematode worm \"Dirofilaria immitis\" that causes heartworm disease in dogs is transmitted by species of \"Culex\" and \"Aedes\". See photograph of microfilaria stage of \"Dirofilaria immitus\" in blood of dog; adult worms in dog's heart grow to several centimeters long. (Mosquitoes are of major importance as transmitters of many types of pathogenic microorganisms to humans causing diseases such as Malaria and Yellow fever. \"Plasmodium\" species causing malaria in humans are exclusively transmitted by \"Anopheles\" mosquitoes.)\n\nTypical genera are \"Culicoides\" and \"Leptoconops\" (the term \"midge\" is also used for dipteran flies that are harmless to domestic animals such as those also known as lake-flies (Chironomidae).\n\nThese are small to minute flies (a typical vernacular name is \"no-see-ums\"). Wings are veined, short and rounded, usually with distinctive patterns of dark brown on clear background. Mouthparts are relatively short and complex with three pairs of cutting / slashing elements that create a superficial wound from which blood is imbibed. Life-cycle is similar to that of mosquitoes: female feeds on blood, matures and lays batch of eggs repeatedly. Males are not blood feeders. The site for larval development is within wet soil and bogs. Hosts of biting midges are wide variety of mammals and birds.\n\nSevere biting stress to cattle, sheep and horses is caused. Horses suffer from a cutaneous hypersensitivity reaction called sweet-itch, or Queensland-itch that is caused by antigenic components of saliva of biting midges. Poultry may be severely afflicted with biting stress. Species such as \"Culicoides imicola\" and \"Culicoides variipennis\" transmit bluetongue virus between sheep and cattle (see diagram and photograph above), and they transmit African horse sickness virus between horses and other equids. \"Culicoides\" midges transmit \"Leucocytozoon\" protozoa to poultry birds.\n\nThe important genera are \"Phlebotomus\" (distributed in Africa and Eurasia) and \"Lutzomyia\" (distributed in the Americas). Note that the term \"sandfly\" is often used to refer to various other types of fly.\n\nSandflies are like small versions of mosquitoes but also with overall furry appearance from many long setae (like hairs) on body and wings (see photograph of \"Phlebotomus pappatasi\"). Mouthparts are medium length. Life-cycle is similar to midges: site for egg laying and larval development is surface of relatively dry soil. Many species of mammals and birds are used as hosts. Females suck blood using medium length complex mouthparts, whilst males feed on plant sugars.\n\nSpecies of \"Phlebotomus\" and \"Lutzomyia\" sandflies are notorious as transmitters of species of \"Leishmania\" protozoa that cause visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis in domestic animals and also humans. Dogs become infected with \"Leishmania infantum\" and \"L.tropica\"; the infection can slowly develop into a multi-organ stage with fatal consequences. \nThe typical genus is \"Simulium\", but also \"Cnephia\" and \"Austrosimulium\" are locally important.\n\nThese are medium nematocerans, halfway in size between mosquitoes and midges. The body is compact, wings are clear except for veins close to leading edge, and antennae are short with compact segments appearing like rings. Thorax is dorsally humped and dark brown or black (see photograph of \"Simulium\"). Life-cycle is similar to mosquitoes: females lay eggs on plants at surface of streams and rivers; larvae settle onto solid substrate in water and feed on suspended organic detritus; pupation occurs at water surface. Hosts are most livestock species, horses and poultry and many wild animals. Humans also may be severely distressed by blackflies. Feeding is through skin with short complex slashing mouthparts.\n\nSevere biting stress when they seasonally swarm near running water. Severe anaphylaxis may develop rapidly in previously sensitized hosts, potentially leading to death of cattle. \"Simulium\" black-flies transmit to \"Leucocytozoon\" protozoa poultry birds. They also transmit \"Onchocerca\" nematode worms to cattle causing bovine onchocerciasis.\n\nNOTE that the former sub-Order Cyclorrhapha is now usually classified as part of the Brachycera.\n\nAntennae consist of three relatively short segments with asymmetric shapes. Brachyceran flies are of medium to large size and compact shape. They have large compound eyes, well developed wings, and generally fly during daytime seeking food and mates. Life-cycle is a complete metamorphosis, as for Nematocera. However, in contrast to nematoceran flies which have larvae always non-parasitic and living in the general habitat, some species of brachyceran flies are parasitic in their larval stage whilst the adults that develop from these larvae are non-parasitic. This parasitism by brachyceran larvae causes the disease myiasis.\n\nSome of the brachyceran flies are important transmitters of pathogenic organisms through a route known as mechanical (or contaminative) transmission. These flies have complex cutting mouthparts that make a superficial wound in skin. Blood flowing into the wound is sponged up by the labella organ of the mouthparts (see photograph of \"Tabanus\" mouthparts). The flies tend to take small meals from many hosts at short intervals, to avoid the defensive actions of their hosts. Fresh blood on the labella may contaminate other hosts with pathogenic organisms. Many species of brachyceran flies such as the house-flies and blow-flies that do not feed on blood are also mechanical transmitters of pathogenic organisms by a contaminative route on their mouthparts used for sponging up wet nutritious secretions on skin of vertebrate animals. Usually the mechanical transmission of microbes by flies does not involve any developmental stage of the microorganism in the fly. However, some brachyceran flies, such as a group of species of \"Glossina\" genus are important biological transmitters, not mechanical.\n\nTypical genera are \"Tabanus\", \"Haematopota\", \"Chrysops\" and \"Hybromitra\", also many other genera of importance to domestic animals in some regions of world, tropical and subtropical South America especially.\n\nThese are large robust flies with massive eyes that often show colored patterns. Antennae are characteristic with three dissimilar segments projecting forward from head. Wings are large and strong with complex venation, and often with complex patterns of brown on clear background. These flies are adapted to hunt widely for their hosts during daytime. Females take repeated small blood meals from their hosts to support development of a large batch of eggs. Eggs are laid on wet soil where larvae develop, sometimes over one or two years by feeding on soil organisms. Males do not feed on blood. Hosts of females include all species of mammalian livestock animals and horses. Tabanid flies have large mouthparts comprising three pairs of cutting / slashing elements that pierce skin in a superficial wound. Blood flowing from this is imbibed through a sponge-like element of the mouthparts, the labella (similar to that shown in photograph of \"Calliphora\").\n\nBites of tabanid flies are painful. Dense populations of these flies cause severe biting stress to livestock and horses leading to reduction of gain in liveweight. These hosts may additionally suffer loss of grazing time by clustering in tight defensive packs, a situation known as fly-syndrome. Many genera of tabanid flies transmit the protozoan \"Trypanosoma evansi\" that causes in camels and horses the disease called surra. These flies also transmit the protozoan \"T.vivax\" that causes in cattle the disease called nagana. Tabanid flies are also transmitters the bacteria \"Anaplasma marginale\" and \"A.centrale\" to cattle, sheep and goats, causing anaplasmosis.\n\nTypical genera are \"Musca\", \"Hydrotaea\", \"Stomoxys\" and \"Haematobia\".\nThese are medium to large flies of compact structure, with clear wings of complex venation. Antennae are highly characteristic with antennae consisting of several compact segments that lie in a deep groove between the eyes; the outermost segment of each antenna bears a feather like structure, the arista, which projects forwards. Species within \"Musca\", \"Hydrotaea\", and similar genera have mouthparts adapted for sponging nutritious liquids with their labellar lobes (see photograph of \"Calliphora\" mouthparts which also have this sponge structure). Some species of this type, such as \"Musca vestustissima\" (Australian bush-fly) also have, as part of this sponge structure, small teeth that can scrape at host's skin down to superficial capillaries to feed on blood. Cattle are a typical host for \"Musca\" and similar species of house-flies that are attracted to protein containing liquids at the eyes and nostrils of their hosts.\n\nSpecies within the genera \"Stomoxys\" stable-flies, and \"Haematobia\" horn-flies are highly adapted for blood feeding, having mouthparts consisting of a strong projecting labium with cutting elements at its point. This is used to pierce deeply into skin of host to access blood (see photograph of \"Stomoxys\" in the Gallery below. Females of these flies typically take repeated small meals from their hosts to support production of their batches of eggs. Both females and males feed only on blood. Cattle and domestic buffalo are also the main hosts of \"Stomoxys\" and \"Haematobia\" flies.\n\nIrritation is caused by large numbers of \"Musca\" house-flies, through to severe biting stress from dense populations of \"Stomoxys\" or \"Haematobia\" flies. \"Musca\" house-flies, face-flies, and similar types transmit a variety of bacteria involved in mastitis of cattle. The conjunctivitis of cattle known as pink-eye is caused by \"Moraxella bovis\" bacteria transmitted by \"Musca autumnalis\" face-flies. The feeding of various \"Musca\" species of fly permits the contaminative transmission of nematode worms, for example \"Parafilaria bovicola\", causing a nodular filariasis in cattle. \"Stomoxys\" species transmit several species of \"Trypanosoma\" protozoa to cattle, sheep and goats causing various types of trypanosomiasis. \"Haematobia\" horn-flies transmit nematode worms in the genus \"Stephanofilaria\" to the skin of cattle, causing stephanofilariasis, a suppurating dermatitis known as hump sore. \"Stomoxys\" flies transmit the bacterium \"Eperythrozoon ovis\" to sheep and this infection may lead to fever and anemia.\n\nThere is one genus in this Family: \"Glossina\", known as tsetse-flies or simply tsetse. Flies of this family are similar to \"Stomoxys\" flies within the Muscidae, but have a life cycle and veterinary and medical importance justifying a separate Family designation. Tsetse-flies are found only in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nThese flies are closely similar to \"Stomoxys\" and \"Haematobia\", but are larger and of a paler brown color. Tsetse-flies of both sexes are robust fliers adapted for hunting their hosts during daytime. Male adults support their mating activity with repeated meals of blood from cattle and similar wild bovid hosts, also wild pigs and warthogs are favored. Life-cycle of tsetse-fly is highly specialized. Females take repeated small meals of blood to support the development within their abdomen of a single larvae over one period. This will be repeated for as many times as the female is able to survive, depending mostly on availability of hosts. The single larva emerges fully grown from the female, weighing more than the female. Then the larva immediately burrows into dry sandy soil to pupate within a protective puparium. A new adult emerges from the puparium after a complete metamorphosis. This is known as larviparous reproduction, with the advantage of high survival rate of offspring, but few offspring are produced by each female.\n\nBites from tsetse flies are painful but these flies are not generally associated with direct causes of lost production in cattle. \"Glossina morsitans\" and \"G.pallidipes\" tsetse-flies are transmitters of various species of \"Trypanosoma\" protozoa causing animal trypanosomiasis (= nagana) in cattle, and other forms of trypanosomiasis in sheep, goats, pigs, camels and horses. Tsetse-flies are also notorious as transmitters of the \"Trypanosoma\" species causing African trypanosomiasis (= sleeping sickness) in humans.\n\nImportant genera include \"Calliphora\", \"Lucilia\", \"Chrysomya\", \"Cochliomyia\" and \"Wohlfahrtia\".\nAll calliphorid flies are all large, robust, strong day-time fliers. Their antennae are as described above for house-flies and others in the Family Muscidae. Adult flies in family Calliphoridae feed as adults of both sexes mostly on proteinaceous liquids found on surface of decaying animal carcasses and similar material. These liquids are taken in using sponging mouthparts (see photograph of \"Calliphora\"). In genera such as \"Calliphora\" and \"Lucilia\" the females lay their eggs on the same dead animal material and the larvae feed their by rasping at the muscle and other tissues with their mouthparts. However, species of \"Lucilia\" and some other genera may opportunistically invade the tissues of live hosts, such as sheep or cattle and feed there parasitically. Other genera such as \"Chrysomya\", \"Cochliomyia\" and \"Wohlfahrtia\" are specifically adapted for this type of feeding by the larvae.\n\nWhen larvae of \"Lucilia\" feed parasitically they cause the disease facultative myiasis (facultative = opportunistic or optional). When this occurs on sheep it is often known as blow-fly strike. This causes severe distress to the host and may be fatal due to toxemia from ammonia excreted by masses of infesting larvae. Females of \"Chrysomya\", \"Cochliomyia\" and \"Wohlfahrtia\" and similar genera always seek out their host such as cattle, sheep, dogs, to lay their eggs at vulnerable sites such as a small wound. The larvae hatch and rapidly invade the superficial layers of skin to continue feeding there until ready to pupate. This form of parasitism is essential for these types of fly, and causes obligate myiasis (obligate = necessary or essential). This infestation develops into severe disease and can be fatal if the infestation is at a vulnerable site such as ear or navel of the host. Adult blow-flies such as those in the \"Calliphora\" genus can be significant as transmitters of various bacteria involved in mastitis of cattle. The conjunctivitis of cattle known as pink-eye is caused by \"Moraxella bovis\" bacteria and may be transmitted by blow-flies.\nTypical genera are \"Hypoderma\", \"Gasterophilus\", \"Dermatobia\" and \"Oestrus (fly)\". Oestrid flies at their larval stage tend to be adapted to feed on a few closely related species of host animal and the adult females fly actively to seek out only these hosts on which to lay their eggs.\nAdults are large flies, and unusual amongst brachyceran flies because they have a dense covering of fine setae (like hairs) and colored patterns that make them appear like bumble-bees (Hymenoptera). All species of the Oestridae are so highly adapted to the myiasis type of parasitism that the adults do not feed and have only residual mouthparts (see photograph of \"Hypoderma iparece\"). All these flies have an obligate myiasis life-cycle, with a complete metamorphosis. The females lay eggs with high selectivity on their special hosts and at specific sites there. For example, eggs laid on the legs of horses in the case of species of \"Gasterophilus\". The horse licks at the irritated skin and the larvae transfer to the mouth of horse. The larvae penetrate tissues in the oral cavity, feed parasitically whilst migrating through tissue of the esophagus to finally reach the stomach. The final larval stage is completed with the larvae attached to the mucosa of the horse's stomach. When ready to pupate the larvae detach and are voided in the horse's feces. Another example is \"Dermatobia hominis\", torsalo-fly, which is an important parasite of cattle, and sometimes humans, in tropical regions of South America. The larvae cause a localized, furuncular (= like a boil) myiasis in the skin of their hosts. The larvae infest these sites when transported there accidentally by blood feeding mosquitoes; the adult female \"Dermatobia\" flies lay their eggs on the legs of mosquitoes, a dispersal mechanism called phoresy.\n\nObligate myiasis of various forms are typical of the oestrid genera. Larval \"Dermatobia\" torsalo-flies infest the skin and underlying tissues of cattle causing distress, reduced gain in weight and damage to skins used for leather. Larval \"Gasterophilus\" stomach-bots infest the upper gastric tract and stomach of horses and other equids. Larval \"Hypoderma\" warble-flies infest the skin and muscles of cattle. Larval \"Oestrus\" nasal-bots infest the nasal cavities of sheep and goats. In the case of stomach-bots it is often uncertain how much clinical disease or loss of production small levels of infestation causes the host. With infestations of warble-flies and nasal-bots severe distress to the hosts may be caused and there are production losses from reduction of value of cattle hides, and reduced grazing time by sheep. Harm to cattle may be caused through panic (known as gadding) at the approach of the flies if that leads to traumatic injury. There are no organisms of known importance transmitted by oestrid flies.\n\nGenera of importance are \"Melophagus\" and \"Hippobosca\". This is a Family of specialized blood feeding flies with a reproductive cycle similar that described for tsetse-flies. They are often known as louse-flies because some species either shed their wings when as adults they find a host after active flying (in genus \"Lipoptena\"). Alternatively flies of genus \"Melophagus\" are so adapted to parasitism that the adults never develop wings. Louse-flies without wings may appear like ticks, but the only stage of tick seen with three pairs of legs will be larvae these are much smaller than louse-flies. \n\nAdults of the genus \"Hippobosca\" are large, robust flies that retain their wings to fly for repeated blood meals, between hosts such as cattle, camels or horses in a herd. Stout piercing mouthparts project downward from the head (see \"Hippobosca\" in Gallery). The abdomen bulges largely, especially when containing a developing larva. The life-cycle is the larviparous type, similar to that of tsetse-flies, few offspring are produced per female but their survival rate is high. In species that never develop wings as adults, such as \"Melophagus ovinus\", the sheep-ked, the fully developed larvae are deposited by the female on the hair coat of the host. There pupation occurs rapidly followed by complete metamorphosis into an adult (see photograph of \"Melophagus\").\n\nIrritation and biting-stress is caused. Damage to skin results in poor quality of leather when hides are processed, a condition known as cockle. Sheep-keds transmit the bacterium \"Eperythrozoon ovis\" to sheep and this infection may cause fever and anemia. They also transmit \"Trypanosoma melophagium\", but this protozoan seems non-pathogenic.\n\nThese usually consist of netting made of synthetic fibers or fine metal mesh that is fitted to the ventilation slats / windows of housing for livestock animals. The fiber netting can be impregnated with insecticides such as the synthetic pyrethroid deltamethrin that acts rapidly when flies such as \"Stomoxys\" or \"Glossina\" species land on it. Valuable horses in areas infested with \"Culicoides\" midges or \"Simulium\" black-flies can be protected with commercially available shields made of cloth that fit over head, neck and back. Flies such as the \"Musca\", \"Stomoxys\" and \"Haematobia\" species have larval habitats amongst livestock dung and soiled bedding found around livestock farms. There is scope for reducing fly infestation by clearing these wastes to composting containers or areas. However, for many types of dipteran fly the larvae inhabit areas such as bogs (\"Culicoides\"), swamps (mosquitoes), or rivers (\"Simulium\") that are impractical to treat under typical commercial constraints within agriculture.\n\nSynthetic chemicals such as diethyltoluamide (often called DEET) dissolved in an oily carrier are sometimes used. Also there are various organic, botanical repellents such as citronella oil and neem oil. Typically various types of synthetic pyrethroids such as deltamethrin, cypermethrin, and permethrin are formulated in an oil or watery suspension suitable for application direct to the skin of animals at risk. This is usually done with a pour-on applicator along the back line of the host from where the insecticide spreads downwards through the hair coat. In addition, to protect against flies such as \"Stomoxys\" and \"Glossina\" species that feed on legs and belly the insecticide can be sprayed selectively to those regions. Also cattle can be treated using self-applicators such as back-rubbers made of large bundles of fiber impregnated with the insecticide, or in automatic walk-through sprayers. The same types of insecticides are also formulated into the plastic sheet of ear-tags for protecting cattle against \"Musca\" and similar flies feeding around the head of cattle. Insect growth regulators (juvenile hormones, chitin synthesis inhibitors, etc.) are available. For example, the insect growth regulator cyromazine is effective for the prevention or treatment of infestations with blowfly larvae. Botanical extracts such as azadirachtin from the neem tree can be formulated as repellents and insecticides, with the potential advantage of more rapid degradation to harmless forms in the environment, lower toxicity and potentially lower cost.\n\nThese can contribute to control of blowflies and tsetse-flies for example. The blowfly traps contain a liquid that smells like the rotting flesh of a carcass and the structure of the trap is designed to prevent the flies from escaping once attracted in. Horse-flies can be controlled by traps that attract the flies to a suspended black ball that mimics a potential host; flies attracted become trapped in a cone above. For area wide control of tsetse-flies targets (these do not trap the flies) that combine a rectangle of dark blue or black cloth and often an attractant chemical act as simple mimics of the fly's host. When the flies land on the cloth they contact the synthetic pyrethroid that is impregnated into the cloth.\n\nThis technique was used to eradicate \"Cochliomyia hominivorax\" screw-worm fly from the USA where the flies were endemic, and from Libya where there had been an accidental importation from South America. Although this species of blowfly under natural conditions has larvae of the obligate myiasis type, it is possible to colonize the entire life-cycle in large factory conditions. Massive numbers pupae are sterilized by irradiation. When released these flies mate with the wild flies and the matings produce no offspring. The reproductive rate of the wild flies can be reduced to the level of eradication. Eradication schemes are being extended in the Americas.\n\nInfections with \"Trypanosoma\" species are treated, either prophylactically or to treat acute cases with synthetic chemical drugs such as diminazine. Infections with nematode worms causing filariosis may be treated with the avermectin class of biologically derived drugs (macrocyclic lactones) such as ivermectin, doramectin, moxidectin. There are commercially available vaccines to protect animals against bluetongue, and African horse sickness\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54303014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54303014", "title": "Pasteur Institute of India", "text": "Pasteur Institute of India\n\nThe Pasteur Institute of India produces DPT vaccine and rabies vaccine for the Expanded Program on Immunization in India. It is located in Coonoor, Nilgiris, Tamil Nadu. The institute was initially called the Pasteur Institute of Southern India. In 1907 it changed its name to the Pasteur Institute of India. In 1977 it became an autonomous body under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The institute is named after the French scientist, Louis Pasteur.\n"}
{"id": "39276282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39276282", "title": "Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment", "text": "Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment\n\nPersonal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment (PRIDE) is a non-profit organization that links citizens with the resources of local, state, and federal agencies to improve the region's water quality, clean up solid waste problems, and advance environmental education. It was originally launched by Congressman Hal Rogers and General James Bickford in 1997 and is a statewide non-profit organization in Kentucky.\n\nThe PRIDE mission is to improve the native region by encouraging citizens to contribute and take responsibility for protecting the environment and to help provide the education and resources needed to do so.\n\nThe annual P.R.I.D.E. Spring Cleanup is held the entire month of April and PRIDE works with communities during the month of April to create a clean and healthy environment in time for the upcoming recreation and tourism season, and local P.R.I.D.E. (Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment) committees meet monthly to plan events every year. Officials say it is a chance for folks to get out and improve their communities.\nThe Kentucky P.R.I.D.E. reported online that nearly 10,600 volunteers have picked up nearly 62,000 bags of trash and eliminated 416 illegal dumps in Pike County, more than 4,000 volunteers have picked up 5,318 bags of trash and eliminated 11 illegal dumps in Letcher County and nearly 8,700 volunteers have picked up nearly 24,000 bags of trash and eliminated 29 dumps in Floyd County and fourteen volunteers cleaned along Rts. 2566, 2565 and 3 in Lawrence County, collecting 44 bags of trash and two tires along 5.4 miles of roadway. Also more than 150 people gathered recently in Corbin to discuss expanding recycling in southern and Eastern Kentucky. Not only volunteers contribute to this cleanup, families from communities contribute without even realizing it because of their own spring cleanup habits.\n\nThe Pike County Clean Community Board who cooperate with the PRIDE organization helps in educational outreach program. The program, also sponsored by the Pike County Board of Education and funded through Litter Abatement funds, sends a representative to local schools to educate children about becoming litter free.The board will also emphasize recycling efforts in the county. \nPike County Solid Waste officials reported that the county's recycling program diverted more than 450 tons of garbage from the landfill last year. More than half of the diverted material—254 tons—was cardboard. Approximately 158 tons of newspaper, 23 tons of mixed paper, 14 tons of plastic, three tons of phone books and one ton of white paper were also recycled instead of filling up the landfill.\n"}
{"id": "22843729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22843729", "title": "Phlebologist", "text": "Phlebologist\n\nA phlebologist is a medical specialist in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders of venous origin. The specialty of phlebology has developed to enable physicians sharing an interest in venous disease and health to share knowledge and experience despite being trained in a variety of backgrounds such as dermatology, vascular surgery, haematology, interventional radiology or general medicine. Diagnostic techniques used include the patient's history and physical examination, venous imaging techniques in particular vascular ultrasound and laboratory evaluation related to venous thromboembolism. The American Medical Association and the American Osteopathic Association has added phlebology to their list of self-designated practice specialties.\n\nA significant part of a phlebologist's work is involved with the treatment of superficial venous disease, frequently of the leg. Conditions often treated include venous stasis ulcers, varicose veins and spider veins (telangiectasia). Other conditions managed by phlebologists include deep venous thrombosis (DVT), superficial thrombophlebitis, and venous malformations.\n\nRegulatory requirements for phlebology certification are different in Europe and the USA. In the USA, licensed physicians with documented experience in treating veins and adequate vascular ultrasound experience can receive certification by passing a test created by the American Board of Venous and Lymphatic Medicine a privately owned corporation committed to maintaining a high standard of care for venous disease. The test addresses knowledge of venous disease, clotting disorders, imaging modalities, pharmacokinetics, vascular malformations, lymphatics disorders and venous embryology. The American Board of Venous and Lymphatic Medicine results in certification as a \"Diplomate of the American Board of Venous and Lymphatic Medicine\" which is based on standards set by the American Board of Medical Specialities. Providers with this designation have completed rigorous criteria to sit for the exam and comprehension of vein care principles to pass the exam according to the Board.\n\n"}
{"id": "57497882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57497882", "title": "Recruitment (medicine)", "text": "Recruitment (medicine)\n\nRecruitment, in medicine, is a physical condition of the inner ear that leads to reduced tolerance of loudness. It commonly occurs in individuals who suffer hearing loss due to cochlear damage. While low-magnitude sounds cannot be heard in the affected ear(s), the perceived loudness increases over-proportionally with sound volume once the auditory threshold has been overcome. This can result in a (seemingly paradoxical) reduced tolerance to loudness, as loud sounds may be perceived louder than normal.\n\nIn those with hearing impairment, the presence of a recruitment phenomenon points towards a cochlear dysfunction, while its absence (also referred to as negative recruitment) indicates a source outside the cochlea (e.g. cochlear nerve injury, tympanic membrane rupture).\n"}
{"id": "298511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298511", "title": "Ridged band", "text": "Ridged band\n\nThe ridged band is a band of highly innervated wrinkly skin toward the end of the foreskin. The term \"ridged\" is used to describe the area instead of the more commonly used term \"wrinkled\". It has, especially in regard to phimosis (and preputioplasty), been called preputial ring or phimotic ring, \"ring\" being analogous to \"band\", referring to the shape, and \"preputial\" meaning \"pertaining to the prepuce\". More particularly, it refers to the transitional area from the external to the internal surface of the prepuce, or foreskin.\n\nJohn R. Taylor, MB, a Canadian pathologist and medical researcher, first used the term \"ridged band\" instead of \"wrinkly skin\" and described the ridged band at the \"Second International Symposium on Circumcision\", organized by NOCIRC in San Francisco, 1991, after examining the foreskins of 22 adults obtained at autopsy. The mean age was 37 years, range 22–58. The prepuces were studied grossly and histologically.\n\nThe term \"ridged band\" was subsequently used by Taylor in an anatomical and histological study of the foreskin published in the \"British Journal of Urology\" in 1996. Most or all of the ridged band is removed by male circumcision.\n\nTaylor described the ridged band as a transversely ridged band of mucosal tissue, located just inside the tip of the foreskin near the mucocutaneous boundary, also known as the \"preputial sphincter\". He characterized the ridged band as intensely vascular and richly innervated, stating that it \"contains more Meissner's corpuscles than does the smooth mucosa\", and noted that these tactile corpuscles were found only in the crests of ridges.\n\nThe prepuce, including the ridged band, is a specific erogenous zone.\n\nTaylor (1996) postulates that \"the ridged band with its unique structure, tactile corpuscles and other nerves, is primarily sensory tissue\". He hypothesizes (2007) that Meissner's corpuscles in the ridged band are adapted to detect stretch:\n\nTaylor theorizes that the main function of the ridged band is to trigger sexual reflexes. In a letter to the editor of \"BJU International\", 2007, Taylor writes:\n\nIn the \"Journal of Sexual Medicine\", 2007, Taylor states:\n\nThe effect of circumcision on sexual function is the subject of intense debate. Taylor's view is that \"almost certainly, removal of the prepuce and its ridged band distorts penile reflexogenic functions but exactly how and to what extent still remains to be seen\". More recent research has demonstrated that the clinically important bulbocavernosus reflex is absent in 73% of circumcised men ostensibly due to the removal of fine-touch nerve endings in the ridged band.\n\nFor an overview of the issues surrounding male circumcision and sexual function, see Sexual effects of circumcision.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33213655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33213655", "title": "Specialty Society Relative Value Scale Update Committee", "text": "Specialty Society Relative Value Scale Update Committee\n\nThe Specialty Society Relative Value Scale Update Committee or Relative Value Update Committee (RUC, pronounced \"ruck\") is a volunteer group of 31 physicians who have made highly influential recommendations on how to value a physician's work when computing health care prices in the United States' public health insurance program Medicare.\n\nBefore the 1992 implementation of the Medicare fee schedule, physician payments were made under the \"usual, customary and reasonable\" payment model (a \"charge-based\" payment system). Physician services were largely considered to be misvalued under this system, with evaluation and management services being undervalued and procedures overvalued. Third-party payers (public and private health insurance) advocated an improved model to replace the UCR fees, which had been associated with stark examples of specialists making significantly higher sums of money than primary care physicians.\n\nWith reference to the research of William Hsiao and colleagues, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989 was passed with the legislative intent of reducing the payment disparity between primary care and other specialties through use of the resource-based relative value scale (RBRVS). Beginning in 2000, all three components of the Medicare RBRVS, physician work, practice expense and malpractice expense are resource-based as required by Section 1848(c) of the Social Security Act.\n\nRUC was established in 1991 by the American Medical Association (AMA) and medical specialist groups. The AMA sponsors RUC \"both as an exercise of 'its First Amendment rights to petition the Federal Government' and for 'monitoring economic trends ... related to the CPT [Current Procedures and Terminology] development process\".\n\nRUC is highly influential because it \"de facto\" sets Medicare valuations of physician work relative value units (RVUs) of Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes. (The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) is the \"de jure\" work RVU determining body.) On average, physician work RVUs make up slightly more than half of the value in a Medicare payment. Historically, CMS has accepted RUC recommendations more than 90% of the time. Health economist Uwe Reinhardt characterized the CMS as slavishly accepting RUC recommendations. The physician work RVU values accepted by CMS also influence private health insurance reimbursement.\n\nIn 2002, a RUC update of values raised concerns that the process, which was initiated by medical speciality groups, unfairly cut primary care physician pay.\n\nIn a 2010 \"Archives of Internal Medicine\" publication written before the major health care reform legislation passed Congress—the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA)—Federman \"et al\". wrote:\n\nCritics have pointed out that many RUC members may have significant conflicts of interest because of their financial relationships.\n\nIn 2013 a report in the Washington \"Post\" highlighted how time seemed to bend in the system of time values assigned to various procedures. A Florida practice performing an average twelve colonoscopies and four other procedures a day in 2012 would be considered to take the physically impossible 26 hours in a nine- to 10-hour day. In other examples: In Florida and Pennsylvania surgery centers in some specialties, \"more than one in five doctors would have to have been working more than 12 hours on average on a single day — much longer than the 10 hours or so a typical surgery center is open\"; and \"Florida records show 78 doctors — gastroenterologists, ophthalmologists, orthopedic surgeons and others — who performed at least 24 hours worth of procedures on an average workday\". RUC chairperson Levy said in the report, \"None of us believe the numbers are fine-tuned... We do believe we get them right with respect to each other\" while emphasizing that the \"voting people around that table can be really harsh\". Researcher Hsiao of the original Harvard study said the \"current set of values 'seems to be distorted... The AMA fought very hard to take over this updating process. I said this had to be done by an impartial group of people. This is highly political'\". Looking at the time between 2003 and 2013, \"the AMA and Medicare have increased the work values for 68 percent of the 5,700 codes analyzed by The Post, while decreasing them for only 10 percent\" and while technology is argued, again with colonoscopies as an example, to be reducing actual time spent. Looked at another way, \"Medicare spending on physician fees per patient grew 58 percent between 2001 and 2011, mostly because doctors increased the number of procedures performed but also because the price of those procedures rose\". Finally, there was an indication in the report that the acceptance rate of the AMA's values by Medicare \"has fallen in recent years from 90 percent [or higher] to about 70 percent\" but the federal agency has far fewer people – \"six to eight\" – monitoring the process than the AMA has operating it.\n\nThe RUC bears the brunt of the inherent problems with regulation and government price-setting. In a follow-up to The Washington Post report, Bloomberg notes: \"There is no system of payment-setting that will not ultimately rely on information from self-interested parties, just as there is no system of financial regulation that can be designed without talking to bankers, or a system of education reform that can be put in place without asking teachers and principals how things work now.\" \n\nThe Independent Payment Advisory Board passed in the PPACA. It could bypass RUC to cut payments to relatively highly compensated specialists, such as dermatologists.\n\nThe current membership of the Relative Value Scale Update Committee (RUC) is as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "9191248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9191248", "title": "Square One Organic Vodka", "text": "Square One Organic Vodka\n\nSquare One Organic Vodka is a spirit distilled from organically grown rye.\n\nSquare One Organic Vodka is made from organic American-grown rye, and with water drawn from the Snake River which runs underneath the distillery. The facility gets 25% of its electricity from a local wind farm through renewable energy credits.\n\nAllison Evanow formed Square One Organic Spirits, LLC, in Novato, California to launch Square One Organic Vodka in April, 2006.\n\nRemarking on the nature of organic and environmentally conscious alcohol brands, including Square One, one reviewer/bar owner wrote \"Alcohol is still alcohol, you’re not getting a better buzz or less of a hangover. The point is [...] doing things differently.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1627951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1627951", "title": "Thing-Fish", "text": "Thing-Fish\n\nThing-Fish is an album by Frank Zappa, originally released as a triple album box set on Barking Pumpkin Records in 1984. It was billed as a cast recording for a proposed musical of the same name, which was ultimately not produced by Zappa, but later performed in 2003, ten years after his death.\n\nThe album's storyline is inspired by Broadway theatre, AIDS, eugenics, conspiracy theories, feminism, homosexuality and African American culture. It involves an evil, racist prince/theater critic who creates a disease intended to eradicate African Americans and homosexuals. The disease is tested on prisoners who are turned into \"Mammy Nuns\" led by the story's narrator, Thing-Fish. The story within a story is a satire of a White Anglo-Saxon Protestant couple, Harry and Rhonda (actually played by Italian-Americans), who attend a play performed by the \"Mammy Nuns\", and find themselves confronted with their pasts: Harry presented as a homosexual boy, Rhonda presented as a sex doll brought to life.\n\nThe story was constructed during the recording sessions, which included producing new overdubs for recordings which previously appeared on Zappa's albums \"Zoot Allures\", \"Tinseltown Rebellion\", \"You Are What You Is\" and \"Ship Arriving Too Late to Save a Drowning Witch\". The release of the album was delayed when Barking Pumpkin Records' previous distributor, MCA, refused to distribute the album. It was instead released by Capitol Records in the United States, accompanied by a \"Warning/Guarantee\" written by Zappa himself. \"Thing-Fish\" was initially received poorly by critics, who criticized the use of previously recorded material, but has since been reappraised for its highly satirical content.\n\nBefore leaving for London to record with the London Symphony Orchestra, Frank Zappa was home during Christmas season in 1982, and kept busy by writing, producing treatments for three films and a Broadway musical called \"Thing-Fish\". Between 1981 and 1982, Broadway theatre had shifted from conservative musicals to experimental plays that were viewed as either being pretentious or vulgar. \"Thing-Fish\" satirized statements made by theater critics at the time, as well as arguing against the \"dumbing down\" of American culture. Previously, Zappa unsuccessfully attempted to stage two musicals on Broadway, \"Hunchentoot\", which formed the basis for the compact disc reissue of \"Sleep Dirt\", and a musical adaptation of William S. Burroughs' \"The Naked Lunch\". \"Thing-Fish\" also drew conceptual themes from AIDS, feminism, gay chic, conspiracy theories and issues of class, greed and race.\n\nThe script was developed by recording songs beforehand; much of the songs in the play were previously recorded for other albums, including \"Zoot Allures\", \"Tinseltown Rebellion\", \"You Are What You Is\" and \"Ship Arriving Too Late To Save A Drowning Witch\". New vocals were combined with previously released tracks and new Synclavier music. In addition to the new songs, the previously recorded songs include new overdubs moving this storyline forward. As the recording process continued, Zappa brought in revised scripts and improved the work by editing or changing aspects with which he was dissatisfied.\n\nZappa attempted to produce \"Thing-Fish\" as a Broadway production. In promotion of the planned musical, a photo sequence based upon the \"Briefcase Boogie\" scene was shot for the pornographic magazine \"Hustler\", accompanied by plot excerpts from the scene. The sequence was 28 pages long. While the album was released, Zappa was unable to raise the $5 million budget in order to produce the play, and shelved the project. Subsequently, \"Thing-Fish\" dialogue appeared on the album \"Frank Zappa Meets the Mothers of Prevention\", during the piece \"Porn Wars\". The album was adapted for a limited stage production that took place in England in 2003. Many elaborate details were changed due to the small scale of the production.\n\nThe Thing-Fish characterization was performed by Ike Willis, who helped shape the dialogue himself using African American Vernacular English According to Willis, \"in my family, we sort of joke around with dialects, and what it sounded like to me was [the poet] Paul Laurence Dunbar. [...] I asked Frank if he had ever heard of this guy, and he said, 'No,' so I started giving him examples of Dunbar's work, and eventually, that ended up being a big influence on the Thing-Fish dialect.\"\n\nMinstrel shows served as a source of satire within the storyline. The Thing-Fish characterization is also seen as satirizing \"Amos 'n' Andy\", a successful radio series and controversial television series which drew protests from the NAACP, who perceived the dialect spoken by the main characters and supporting character Kingfish as being portrayed as being \"too dumb to speak English.\" Additionally, Zappa satirized the Mammy archetype; the AIDS-like disease in the storyline turns prisoners into \"Mammy Nuns\" which are round and dress like Aunt Jemima. The Mammy archetype derives from the fictional character Mammy, as portrayed by Hattie McDaniel in the film \"Gone With The Wind\".\n\n\"Thing-Fish\" is delivered as a story within a story, focusing on a spoiled White Anglo-Saxon Protestant couple, Harry and Rhonda, who attend a play that initially begins as being about and starring the Mammy Nuns. The story ultimately ends up following these characters through a series of ideological fads. It is revealed that Harry had become a homosexual as a result of the women's liberation movement, which caused him to lose all sexual desire for women; the younger versions of the characters are portrayed in the characters \"Harry-As-A-Boy\" and \"Artificial Rhonda\", with the young Rhonda being portrayed as a rubber sex doll, while her older counterpart becomes increasingly fascistic and feminist towards the end of the story.\n\nThe prologue is delivered as a spoken monologue over an instrumental piece with a heavy rock guitar riff. It is followed by the song \"The Mammy Nuns\", which originated as a hard rock instrumental, which appears in a live recording as \"The Mammy Anthem\" on \"You Can't Do That on Stage Anymore, Vol. 1\", and opened performances in June and July 1982. \"Galoot Up-Date\" is an altered version of the recording \"The Blue Light\", which appeared on Zappa's album \"Tinseltown Rebellion\". As Harry and Rhonda express admiration for the \"performance\" of the Evil Prince, an early version of Zappa's Synclavier composition \"Amnerika\" is heard. \"Clowns on Velvet\" was performed live as a \"spirited, playful instrumental\". A recording of the instrumental version featuring guitarist Al Di Meola was planned for release on the album \"Tinseltown Rebellion\", but DiMeola refused its release.\n\nJohnny \"Guitar\" Watson, appearing as the character Brown Moses, delivered running commentary in the song \"He's So Gay\", and sang the song \"Brown Moses\", which was influenced by soul and gospel music. The play's first act is concluded with \"Artificial Rhonda\", a rewrite of the song \"Ms. Pinky\", which appeared on \"Zoot Allures\".\n\nThe next track begins with early Synclavier music by Zappa, and the computerized voice of \"The Crab-Grass Baby\", followed by the Mammy Nuns singing \"The White Boy Troubles\". The Evil Prince, defeated at his own hands, delivers a soliloquy in the form of a Broadway piano ballad, \"Wistful Wit a Fist-Full\".\n\nThe \"Thing-Fish\" album was identified as an \"original cast recording\". Barking Pumpkin Records prepared to release the album with distribution by MCA Records. MCA produced a test pressing of the triple LP set, but withdrew their distribution after a woman in their quality control department became offended and upset by the album's content.\n\nA deal was quickly made with EMI Records, which would allow \"Them Or Us\" and \"Thing-Fish\" to be distributed by Capitol Records in the United States. Zappa wrote a \"warning\" which appeared on the inner sleeves of these albums, as well as \"Frank Zappa Meets the Mothers of Prevention\", which stated that the albums contained content \"which a truly free society would neither fear nor suppress\", and a \"guarantee\" which stated that the lyrics would not \"cause eternal torment in the place where the guy with the horns and pointed stick conducts his business.\" \n\nThe original vinyl mix of \"Thing-Fish\" was only briefly available on CD via a 1987 EMI release in the United Kingdom. All other CD releases contain modifications, edits, re-equalization, and some minor remixing (the most significant difference—Johnny \"Guitar\" Watson's spoken vocals during \"He's So Gay\"—was not implemented immediately). This new version was initially released on CD by Rykodisc, and along with most of Zappa's catalogue was reissued in 1995, also by Rykodisc. \n\nIn 2012, after the Zappa Family Trust had regained the rights to Zappa's catalogue, Zappa Records, along with Universal Music reissued the album (still in revised form) on CD.\n\n\"Thing-Fish\" was poorly received by critics upon initial release; a common thread of criticism was that many of the songs on this album derived from previously released recordings, and some detractors considered it to be nothing more than a compilation album. Barry Miles found it to be one of his \"least substantive\" works.\n\nMore recently the album has been reappraised, described by Kevin Courrier in \"Dangerous kitchen: the subversive world of Zappa\" as \"a compendium of Zappa's most explicit attacks on political and sexual hypocrisy in American culture collected together in one huge volley.\" In \"Frank Zappa and musical theatre: ugly ugly o'phan Annie and really deep, intense, thought-provoking Broadway symbolism\", \"Thing-Fish\" is described as \"an extraordinary example of bricolage\". As reviewed by François Couture for the website Allmusic, Couture described \"Thing-Fish\" as Zappa's \"most controversial, misunderstood, overlooked album\", stating that it was not a masterpiece, but \"more than rehashed material\".\n\nThe libretto which accompanied the album only credits \"cast members\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "770661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=770661", "title": "Thurstone scale", "text": "Thurstone scale\n\nIn psychology and sociology, the Thurstone scale was the first formal technique to measure an attitude. It was developed by Louis Leon Thurstone in 1928, as a means of measuring attitudes towards religion. It is made up of statements about a particular issue, and each statement has a numerical value indicating how favorable or unfavorable it is judged to be. People check each of the statements to which they agree, and a mean score is computed, indicating their attitude.\n\nThurstone's method of pair comparisons can be considered a prototype of a normal distribution-based method for scaling-dominance matrices. Even though the theory behind this method is quite complex (Thurstone, 1927a), the algorithm itself is straightforward. For the basic Case V, the frequency dominance matrix is translated into proportions and interfaced with the standard scores. The scale is then obtained as a left-adjusted column marginal average of this standard score matrix (Thurstone, 1927b). The underlying rationale for the method and basis for the measurement of the \"psychological scale separation between any two stimuli\" derives from Thurstone's Law of comparative judgment (Thurstone, 1928).\n\nThe principal difficulty with this algorithm is its indeterminacy with respect to one-zero proportions, which return z values as plus or minus infinity, respectively. The inability of the pair comparisons algorithm to handle these cases imposes considerable limits on the applicability of the method.\n\nThe most frequent recourse when the 1.00-0.00 frequencies are encountered is their omission. Thus, e.g., Guilford (1954, p. 163) has recommended not using proportions more extreme than .977 or .023, and Edwards (1957, pp. 41–42) has suggested that \" “if the number of judges is large, say 200 or more, then we might use pij values of .99 and .01, but with less than 200 judges, it is probably better to disregard all comparative judgments for which pij is greater than .98 or less than .02.\"’ \" Since the omission of such extreme values leaves empty cells in the Z matrix, the averaging procedure for arriving at the scale values cannot be applied, and an elaborate procedure for the estimation of unknown parameters is usually employed (Edwards, 1957, pp. 42–46). An alternative solution of this problem was suggested by Krus and Kennedy (1977).\n\nWith later developments in psychometric theory, it has become possible to employ direct methods of scaling such as application of the Rasch model or unfolding models such as the Hyperbolic Cosine Model (HCM) (Andrich & Luo, 1993). The Rasch model has a close conceptual relationship to Thurstone's law of comparative judgment (Andrich, 1978), the principal difference being that it directly incorporates a person parameter. Also, the Rasch model takes the form of a logistic function rather than a cumulative normal function.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21071926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21071926", "title": "Unintended pregnancy", "text": "Unintended pregnancy\n\nUnintended pregnancies are pregnancies that are mistimed, unplanned or unwanted at the time of conception. Unintended pregnancies may also result from rape or incest.\n\nVaginal sexual activity without the use of contraception through choice or coercion is the predominant cause of unintended pregnancy. The incorrect use of a contraceptive method, and failure of the method chosen also contributing. Available contraception methods include use of birth control pills, a condom, intrauterine device (IUD, IUC, IUS), contraceptive implant (implanon/nexplanon), hormonal patch, hormonal ring, cervical caps, diaphragms, spermicides, or sterilization. Women choose to use a contraceptive method based on method efficacy, medical considerations, side effects, convenience, availability, friends' or family members' experience, religious views, and many other factors. Some cultures limit or discourage access to birth control because they consider it to be morally or politically undesirable.\n\nUnintended pregnancies may be unwanted pregnancies or mistimed pregnancies. Worldwide, 38% of pregnancies (about 80 million pregnancies) were unintended in 1999. Unintended pregnancies are the main reason for induced abortions, resulting in about 42 million induced abortions; not all unintended pregnancies result in abortions or unwanted children. Unintended pregnancy has been linked to numerous maternal and child health problems. States that have legalized abortions and easier access to abortions have lower rates of child neglect and better living conditions for children overall; this may be attributed to the fact that children in those states are more likely to be \"wanted\" when they are born.\n\nAn intended pregnancy is one that is consciously desired at the time of conception. Pregnancy is intended if either partner intended or desired a pregnancy to occur, though the other partner may not want a pregnancy either at all or at that time, or he/she may be ambivalent to a pregnancy.\n\nFeelings towards a pregnancy can change during the course of a pregnancy. For instance, a change of circumstances might lead to the continued pregnancy being unwanted and perhaps a desire to terminate an initially intended pregnancy. On the other hand, an initially unintended pregnancy might later be welcomed.\n\nCouples often desire to control not just the number of children, but also the timing.\n\n\nReasons contraceptives might not have been used or been used incorrectly include:\n\nAccording to one study, over one-third of living people in the US under 31 years of age (born since 1982) were the result of unintended pregnancies, a rate that has remained largely unchanged to date.\n\nPregnancy has risks and potential complications. On average, unintended pregnancies result in poorer outcomes for the mother and for the child, if birth occurs. Unintended pregnancy usually precludes pre-conception counseling and pre-conception care, and sometimes delays initiation of prenatal care. The great majority of abortions result from unintended pregnancies.\n\nResults of unintended pregnancy include:\n\nChildren whose births were unintended are:\n\n\nUnintended pregnancies lead to higher rates of maternal morbidity, and threaten the economic viability of families.\n\nWomen with unintended pregnancies have less education and participate less in the workforce than women whose pregnancies are intended.\n\nAbortion, the voluntary termination of pregnancy, is one of the primary consequences of unintended pregnancy. A large proportion of induced abortions worldwide are due to unwanted or mistimed pregnancy. Unintended pregnancies result in about 42 million induced abortions per year worldwide. In the United States, over 92% of abortions are the result of unintended pregnancy.\n\nAbortion carries few health risks when performed in accordance with modern medical technique. It is safer for the pregnant woman than childbirth. However where safe abortions are not available, abortion can contribute significantly to maternal mortality and morbidity.\n\nWhile decisions about abortion may cause some individuals psychological distress, some find a reduction in distress after abortion. There is no evidence of widespread psychological harm from abortion. Unwanted pregnancy and births resulting from these pregnancies are also psychologically distressing, so considerations of psychological impact of abortion should be in comparison to potential harm from these stressors.\n\nSome find abortion morally objectionable. This could be due to religious beliefs, one's own personal beliefs or the context of the situation.\n\nUnintended pregnancies often result in an adoption of the infant, where the biological parents (or birth parents) transfer their privileges and responsibilities to the adoptive parents. There are two forms of adoptions: open adoptions and closed adoptions. Open adoption allows birth parents to know and have contact with the adoptive parents and the adopted child. In a closed adoption, there is no contact between the birth parents and adoptive parents. Information identifying the adoptive parents and the birth parents is not shared. However, non-identifying information (i.e. background and medical information) about the birth parents, will be shared with the adoptive parents. Birth parents choose adoption when parenting is not possible and they don’t want to endure an abortion. In the United States alone, 135,000 children are adopted each year which represents about 3% of all live births. According to the 2010 census, there were 1,527,020 adopted children in the United States, representing 2.5 percent of all U.S. children.\n\nOver the six years between 1995 and 2000 there were an estimated 338 million pregnancies that were unintended and unwanted worldwide (28% of the total 1.2 billion pregnancies during that period). These unwanted pregnancies resulted in nearly 700,000 maternal deaths (approximately one-fifth of maternal deaths during that period). More than one-third of the deaths were from problems associated with pregnancy or childbirth, but the majority (64%) were from complications from unsafe or unsanitary abortion. Most of the deaths occurred in less developed parts of the world, where family planning and reproductive health services were less available.\n\nIn cultures that practice honor killing, unintended pregnancy may increase the woman's chance of being killed.\n\nPrevention includes comprehensive sexual education, availability of family planning services, abstinence and increased access to a range of effective birth control methods. Most unintended pregnancies result from not using contraception, and many result from using contraceptives inconsistently or incorrectly. Though, increased rates of sexual activity are also a factor.\n\nIncreasing use of long-acting reversible contraceptives (LARCs) (such as IUD and contraceptive implants) decreases the chance of unintended pregnancy by decreasing the chance of incorrect use. Method failure is relatively rare with modern, highly effective contraceptives, and is much more of an issue when such methods are unavailable or not used. (See comparison of contraceptive methods). Introduction of effective LARCs for men could have a positive effect on unintended pregnancies. \n\nIn the United States, women who have an unintended pregnancy are more likely to have subsequent unplanned pregnancies. Providing family planning and contraceptive services as part of prenatal, postpartum and post abortion care can help reduce recurrence of unintended pregnancy.\n\nProviding contraceptives and family planning services at low or no cost to the user helps prevent unintended pregnancies. Many of those at risk of unintended pregnancy have little income, so even though contraceptives are highly cost-effective, up front cost can be a barrier. Subsidized family planning services improve the health of the population and saves money for governments and health insurers by reducing medical, education and other costs to society.\n\nProviding modern contraceptives to the 201 million women at risk of unintended pregnancy in developing countries who do not have access to contraception would cost an estimated US$3.9 billion per year. This expenditure would prevent an estimated 52 million unintended pregnancies annually, preventing 1.5 million maternal and child deaths annually, and reduce induced abortions by 64% (25 million per year). Reduced illness related to pregnancy would preserve 27 million healthy life years, at a cost of $144 per year of healthy life.\n\nIt is theorized that reducing unintended pregnancies could help break the cycle of poverty.\n\nNote: Numbers and rates are for detected pregnancies. A large proportion of pregnancies miscarry before the woman is aware of the pregnancy.\n\nThe global rate of unintended pregnancy was 55 per 1,000 women aged 15–44 in 2008, of which 26 per 1,000 ended in abortion. The rate of intended pregnancy was 79 per 1,000. The estimated 208 million pregnancies in 2008 resulted in 102 million intended births, 41 million induced abortions, 33 million unintended births, and 31 million miscarriages.\n\nGlobally, the proportion of married women practicing contraception increased from 54% in 1990 to 63% in 2003.\nThe global rate of unintended pregnancy declined from 69 per 1,000 women in 1995. The decline was greatest in the more developed world.\n\nWorldwide, 38% of pregnancies were unintended in 1999 (some 80 million unintended pregnancies in 1999). In developed world an estimated 49% of pregnancies were unintended, 36% in the developing world.\n\nAccording to a 2013 study approximately 16% of British pregnancies are unplanned, 29% are ambivalent, and are 55% planned.\n\nIn France, 33% of pregnancies are unintended. Of women at risk for unintended pregnancy, only 3% do not use contraception, and 20% use intrauterine devices (IUDs).\n\nOne study from Sweden (2008-2010) showed that the prevalence of unintended pregnancies was 23.2%. One study conducted in Uppsala (2012-2013) found that 12% of pregnancies were fairly or very unplanned.\n\nAccording to a 2004 study, current pregnancies were termed \"desired and timely\" by 58% of respondents, while 23% described them as \"desired, but untimely\", and 19% said they were \"undesired\".\n\nThe United States rate of unintended pregnancies is higher than the world average, and much higher than that in other industrialized nations. Almost half (49%) of U.S. pregnancies are unintended, more than 3 million unintended pregnancies per year.\n\nA 2011 study by the Guttmacher Institute based on data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other sources determined that the average U.S. rate of unintended pregnancies was 51 per 1,000 women ages 15 to 44 in 2006. Most states' rates were between 40 and 65 unintended pregnancies per 1,000 women. The state with the highest rate of unintended pregnancies was Mississippi, 69 per 1,000 women, followed by California, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Hawaii and Nevada (66 to 67 per 1,000). New Hampshire had the lowest rate, 36 per 1,000 women, followed by Maine, North Dakota, Vermont and West Virginia (37 to 39 per 1,000 women).\n\nOver 92% of abortions are the result of unintended pregnancy, unintended pregnancies result in about 800,000 abortions/year. In 2001, 44% of unintended pregnancies resulted in births, and 42% resulted in induced abortion and the rest in miscarriage. It is estimated that more than half of US women have had an unintended pregnancy by age 45. The U.S. states with the highest levels of abortions performed were Delaware, New York and New Jersey, with rates of 40, 38 and 31 per 1,000 women, respectively. High rates were also seen in the states of Maryland, California, Florida, Nevada and Connecticut with rates of 25 to 29 per 1,000 women. The state with the lowest abortion rate was Wyoming, which had less than 1 per 1,000 women, followed by Mississippi, Kentucky, South Dakota, Idaho and Missouri with rates of 5 to 6 abortions per 1,000 women.\n\nUS birth rates declined in the 1970s. Factors that are likely to have led to this decline include: The introduction of the birth control pill in 1960, and its subsequent rapid increase in popularity; the completion of legalization of contraceptives in the 1960s and early 1970s; the introduction of federal funding for family planning in the 1960s and Title X in 1970; increased career and educational gains for women and its consequence of increased opportunity costs; and the legalization of abortion, which was completed in 1973. The decline in the birth rate was associated with reductions in the number of children put up for adoption and reduction in the rate of neonaticide.\n\n\nThe rate of unintended pregnancy declined significantly from 1987 until 1994, due to increased contraceptive use. Since then until 2001 the rate has remained relatively unchanged.\nThe proportion of births that were unintended at the time of conception decreased during the 1970s and early 1980s. Between 1982 and 1988 the proportion of births that were unintended began increasing. In 1990 about 44% of births were unintended at time of conception. The fraction of births that were unintended at the time of conception was even higher among lower class women (almost 60%), never-married women (73%) and unmarried teens (86%).\n\nAmong lower-class women, the rate of unintended pregnancy and unintended birth rose from 1994 to 2001, while it declined for the more affluent women (those more than 200% of federal poverty level). (Unintended pregnancy rose almost 30% and unintended births rose 50% for those below federal poverty level.) Contraceptive use had been increasing for years, but stopped in the 1990s, and began to decline among lower class women. Cuts in federal and state family planning programs may account for the decreased use of contraceptives and increase in unintended pregnancies.\n\nThe public cost of unintended pregnancy is estimated to be about 11 billion dollars per year in short-term medical costs. This includes costs of births, one year of infant medical care and costs of fetal loss. Preventing unintended pregnancy would save the public over 5 billion dollars per year in short-term medical costs. Savings in long-term costs and in other areas would be much larger.\nBy another estimate, the direct medical costs of unintended pregnancies, not including infant medical care, was $5 billion in 2002.\nThe Brookings Institution conducted a research and their results show that taxpayers spend more than $12 billion each year on unintended pregnancies. They also find that, if all unintended pregnancies were prevented, the resulting savings on medical spending alone would equal more than three-quarters of the federal FY 2010 appropriation for the Head Start and Early Head Start programs and would be roughly equivalent to the amount that the federal government spends each year on the Child Care and Development Fund (CCDF).\n\nOf the 800,000 teen pregnancies per year, over 80% were unintended in 2001. One-third of teen pregnancies result in abortion. In 2002, about 9% of women at risk for unintended pregnancy were teenagers, but about 20% of the unintended pregnancies in the United States are to teenagers. A somewhat larger proportion of unintended births are reported as mistimed, rather than unwanted, for teens compared to women in general (79% mistimed for teens vs. 69% among all women in 1998).\n\nIn 2011, a total of 329,797 babies were born to women aged 15–19 years, for a live birth rate of 31.3 per 1,000 women in this age group.1 This is a record low for U.S. teens in this age group and a drop of 8% from 2010. Birth rates fell 11% for women aged 15–17 years, and 7% for women aged 18–19 years. While reasons for the declines are not clear, teens seem to be less sexually active, and more of those who are sexually active seem to be using birth control than in previous years.\n\nIn the US it is estimated that 52% of unintended pregnancies result from couples not using contraception in the month the woman got pregnant, and 43% result from inconsistent or incorrect contraceptive use; only 5% result from contraceptive failure, according to a report from the Guttmacher Institute. Contraceptive use saved an estimated $19 billion in direct medical costs from unintended pregnancies in 2002.\n\nIn 2006, publicly funded family planning services (Title X, Medicaid, and state funds) helped women avoid 1.94 million unintended pregnancies, thus preventing about 860,000 unintended births and 810,000 abortions. Without publicly funded family planning services, the number of unintended pregnancies and abortions in the United States would be nearly two-thirds higher among women overall and among teens; the number of unintended pregnancies among lower class women would nearly double\nThe services provided at publicly funded clinics saved the federal and state governments an estimated $5.1 billion in 2008 in short term medical costs. Nationally, every $1.00 invested in helping women avoid unintended pregnancy saved $3.74 in Medicaid expenditures that otherwise would have been needed.\n\nReducing unintended pregnancy in the United States would be particularly desirable since abortion is such a politically divisive issue.\n\nThe CDC encourages men and women to formulate a reproductive life plan, to help them in avoiding unintended pregnancies and to improve the health of women and reduce adverse pregnancy outcomes.\n\nIn the period from 2001 to 2008, there were notable increases in the use of long-acting methods among younger women, while the pill and condom are most common, the more effective methods, such as intrauterine devices and implants, are recommended for young women and women without children.\n\nRape is defined as sexual intercourse that is forced on a person without his or her permission. It may involve physical force, the threat of force, or it may be done against someone who is unable to give consent.\nSexual intercourse may be vaginal, anal, or oral, and may involve the use of a body part or an object.\n\nA longitudinal study in 1996 of over 4000 women in the United States followed for 3 years found that the rape-related pregnancy rate was 5.0% among victims aged 12–45 years. Applying that rate to rapes committed in the United States would indicate that there are over 32,000 pregnancies in the United States as a result of rape each year.\n\nEarly ways of preventing unwanted pregnancy included withdrawal and various alternatives to intercourse; they are difficult to use correctly and, while much better than no method, have high failure rates compared to modern methods. Various devices and medications thought to have spermicidal, contraceptive, abortifacient or similar properties were also used.\n\nAbortions have been induced to prevent unwanted births since antiquity, abortion methods are described in some of the earliest medical texts. The degree of safety of early methods relative to the risks of child birth is unclear.\n\nInfanticide (‘customary neonaticide’) or abandonment (sometimes in the form of exposure) are other traditional ways of dealing with babies that were not wanted or that a family could not support. Opinions on the morality or desirability of the practices have changed through history.\n\nWhere modern contraceptives are not available, abortion has sometimes been used as a major way of preventing birth. For instance in much of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet republics in the 1980s, desired family size was small, but modern contraceptive methods were not readily available, so many couples relied on abortion, which was legal, safe, and readily accessible, to regulate births. In many cases, as contraceptives became more available the rate of unintended pregnancy and abortion dropped rapidly during the 1990s.\n\nIn the 19th and 20th centuries, the desired number of pregnancies has declined as reductions in infant and childhood mortality have increased the probability that children will reach adulthood. Other factors, such as level of education and economic opportunities for women, have also led to reductions in the desired number of children. As the desired number of children decreases, couples spend more of their reproductive lives trying to avoid unintended pregnancies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53717543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53717543", "title": "Vezeeta", "text": "Vezeeta\n\nVezeeta is an online medical care scheduling service, providing free of charge medical search platform for end users by integrating information about medical practices and doctors' individual schedules in a central location. The company is based in Cairo, with offices in Amman, Beirut, Dubai and Riyadh.\n\nVezeeta provides a scheduling system on paid subscription basis for medical personnel. The scheduling system can be accessed by subscribers both as an online service and via the deployed office calendar software, or integrated with their websites. The subscriber's schedules are available to the patients.\n\nThe end user-searchable database includes specialties, range of services, office locations, photographs, personnel educational background and user-submitted reviews. For each doctor the users are able to review the free slots in the schedule and make appointments for specific time slots.\n\nThe service was launched during in 2011. Initially limited to Cairo, it has since expanded to cover 15% of MENA population across 8 cities, and is used by more than 2,000,000 people per month. The service may be used as Android iOS, or web application, as well as supporting Arabic and English language versions with the launch of Vezeeta en français soon. The service is now available in 4 MENA countries, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon and KSA. \n\nAs of May 2017, the company had raised over $10 million in venture capital from investors.\n\n"}
{"id": "11096320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11096320", "title": "Water resources in Mexico", "text": "Water resources in Mexico\n\nWater resources in many parts of Mexico are under stress, especially in the arid northwest and central regions where most of the population lives and most of the economic activities are located. The country has put in place a system of water resources management that includes both central (federal) and decentralized (basin and local) institutions.\n\nDespite many achievements, the water resources sector in Mexico still faces some challenges, including: (i) increasing water scarcity, (ii) over-exploitation of freshwater resources, especially groundwater, (ii) deteriorating water quality, (iii) lack of financial sustainability of the water sector, (iv) modernizing water supply and sanitation services, (v) improving competitiveness and efficiency of irrigation, (vi) strengthening water institutions, (vii) adapting to climate change impacts, especially droughts and floods.\n\nMexico has a long and well-established tradition on water resources management (WRM) which started in the 1930s when the country began investing heavily in water storage facilities and groundwater development to expand irrigation and supply water to the rapidly expanding population.\n\nThe 1934 Código Agrario, promulgated during the Cárdenas administration (1934-1940), granted the federal government sweeping powers to define the \"public interest\" to which water could be harnessed. By virtue of such legislation, between the 1930s and 1970s, the ejido sector and rural communities were subject to direct federal control over water. Private landowners, on the other hand, enjoyed the benefits of federally subsidized irrigation infrastructure and guaranteed market prices. Over time, large landowners became highly capitalized, while small farmers, by the 1970s, were suffering from the effects of water monopolies.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Mexican government entered into a tripartite agreement with the World Bank, and the United Nations Development Program to prepare the 1975 National Water Plan (NWP) which identified the need to enact a National Water Law (NWL) and a National Water Authority as well as decentralize responsibilities and promote water user participation in operational and maintenance (O&M).\n\nThe NWP spurred a significant institutional development and infrastructural achievements. In 1983 the federal government transferred the responsibility for water supply and sanitation to municipalities and states. The Mexican Institute of Water Technology (IMTA) was established in 1986, and the National Water Commission (CONAGUA, sometimes also called CNA in 1989). Also in 1989 the first Basin Council in Lerma–Chapala was created, incorporating water users from multiple sectors.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Mexico's groundwater boom took place with rapid development and pumping of aquifers for combined agricultural, urban, and industrial demand. Also the federal government (CNA) decentralized responsibility for large irrigation infrastructure to autonomous agencies (irrigation districts).\nIn 1992, Mexico adopted a National Water Law, which contained specific provisions for the role of the CNA, the structure and functioning of river basin councils, public participation in water management, etc.\n\nIn 1993, the Cutzamala system was completed, becoming one of the largest pumping schemes in the world, pumping 19 cubic meters of water per second into the Mexico City Metropolitan area, over a difference of altitude of 940m and a distance of 162 km.\n\nIn 1997 the first technical groundwater committee was created to manage an overexploited aquifer in the state of Guanajuato.\n\nWith the 2004 Revision of the National Water Law, the thirteen decentralized CNA regions would become basin organizations serving as the technical arm of more broad-based basin councils that incorporate civil society interests including the private sector and citizens’ groups.\n\nTotal internal renewable water resources are 457 billion cubic meters (BCM)/year, plus 49 BCM/year inflows from neighboring countries (average 1977-2001).\n\nThe largest river on the Pacific coast is the Balsas River (24 BCM/year) and the largest river on the Atlantic Coast is the Grijalva–Usumacinta flowing from Guatemala to Mexico (115 BCM.year). The longest river (2018 km) and also the river with the largest basin (226,000 km²) is the Rio Bravo, called Rio Grande in the United States.\n\nWater is abundant in the relatively sparsely populated South and scarce in the more densely populated Center and North of the country. The Center and the North of the country where 77% of Mexico's population lives and 85% of its GDP is generated dispose of only 32% of the country's renewable water resources.\n\nRainfall is highly variable and droughts are frequent. The states most affected by drought, as measured by the agricultural area affected by drought, are Chihuahua, Mexico and Zacatecas.\n\nTotal water withdrawals for consumptive use are 78 BCM/year. The largest consumptive water user is agriculture (78%), followed by domestic use (17%) and industry (5%).\n\nThere are no estimates on the Minimum Environmental Flow Requirements in Mexico. Environmental demand thus is de facto absent from the official water balances in Mexico.\n\nHydropower is a major source of electricity generation in Mexico with an installed capacity of 10.3 Gigawatt or 22% of the installed capacity in 2005.\n\nThere are seven major lakes in Mexico. By far the largest and most important is the Chapala Lake in Central Mexico with an area of 1,116 km² and a storage capacity of more than 8 BCM. Actual storage volume varies between 1 and 10 BCM since measurements began in 1935. The lake is only 4 to 6 m deep.\n\nThere are 667 large dams with a storage capacity of 150 BCM and an actual storage of 70 BCM in 2005. The largest dam by storage volume is the La Angostura Dam on the Grijalva River in the state of Chiapas with a storage volume of more than 10 BCM.\n\nOverall, only 18% of water resources in Mexico are withdrawn for consumptive use. However, there is water stress in several regions of the country. The highest pressure on water resources is encountered around Mexico City (120% of resources), in Baja California (86% of resources) and in Sonora in the Northeast (79% of resources).\n\nCNA has defined 653 \"aquifers\" out of which 104 were categorized as overexploited in 2005. Total groundwater use was 27.5 BCM/year, while recharge is estimated at 77BCM/year. Out of the country's 13 administrative hydrological regions, in 4 regions abstraction exceeds recharge: Baja California, Northeast, North-Center and the Valley of Mexico.\n\nIn the context of the US National Assessment of the Potential Consequences of Climate Variability and Change (National Assessment on Climate Change) published in 2000, which was part of the US Global Change Research Program (Global Change Research Act), the National Ecology Institute of the National University of Mexico (UNAM) carried out a study on Impacts of Climate Change and Climate Variability in Mexico for the Mexican Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. According to the study Mexico will experience less or normal summer precipitation and increased precipitation during winter. The report also details predicted impact by regions. For example, in the Lerma-Chapala basin the predicted increase in temperature coupled with a decrease in rainfall could result in severe water supply shortages, exacerbated by growth in population and industries. In northern areas and regions with large populations, especially in Central Mexico erosion and drought severity will increase with higher temperatures and rainfall variations in these arid and semi arid regions. Agricultural practices may also have to change, with a severe drought in Chihuahua in 2012, which some scientists attribute to climate change, leading to 350,000 head of cattle starving to death due to a shortage of pasture caused by a lack of rain.\n\nResearchers have also predicted that tensions between Mexico and the US over shared water resources could increase as climate change increases water scarcity in both countries.\n\nInformation on the water quality of Mexico's rivers published by the National Water Commission is limited to only two parameters, Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). No other water quality indicators are used to classify water bodies and no water quality data using other pollutants as parameters are readily available.\n\nSurface water bodies in Mexico are classified in five different ambient water quality classes, using BOD and COD as indicators. In 2005 surface water quality was measured in 509 sites using these parameters.\n\nUsing BOD as an indicator, in 2005 5% of water bodies were classified as highly contaminated (BOC > 120 mg/l) and 10% as contaminated.(BOD > 30 mg/l). If COD is used as an indicator, the respective shares increase to 12% for highly contaminated (COD > 200) and 26% for contaminated (COD > 40) waterbodies.\n\nThe highest levels of contamination are found in the hydrological regions of the Northeast, Balsas, Valley of Mexico and Lerma-Chapala.\n\nThe main law governing water resources management in Mexico is the National Water Law of 1992, revised on April 29, 2004. According to the Law, key functions in the sector are the responsibility of the federal government, through the National Water Commission (CNA or Conagua). CNA's mission is to \"manage and preserve national water resources, with the participation of the society, to reach a sustainable use of the resource.\" CNA has a staff of 16,000 and an annual budget of 18.6bn Pesos in 2005 (more than US$1.5bn) and is considered to be one of the most powerful federal agencies in Mexico. CNA administrates major federal programs to support investments in water supply and sanitation as well as in irrigation. It also directly manages certain key hydraulic facilities such as the Cutzamala Pipeline that supplies a large share of the water used in the Metropolitan Area of Mexico City. CNA also owns and operates most dams in Mexico and operates the country's water monitoring network.\n\nThrough the 2004 revision of the National Water Law two new entities were formally created: Basin Councils (Consejos de Cuenca) and Basin Agencies (Organismos de Cuenca). The basin councils consist of representatives of the federal government, state and municipal governments, as well as at least 50% representatives of water users and NGOs. The basin councils are not decision-making bodies, but are consultative bodies. There are 26 basin councils. The basin agencies, on the other hand, are the regional administrative branches of the CNA, which retains the ultimate decision-making power.\n\nObviously other entities such as the Ministry of Finance, the Federal Congress, State Governments and State Congresses, as well as the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources are important decision-makers in the sector.\n\nThree groups of institutions have been assigned with the main responsibilities for WRM: (i) the National Water Commission (Comision Nacional del Agua –CONAGUA), at the federal level; (ii) Water Commissions (Comisiones Estatales del Agua – CEAs), at the State level; and (iii) basin authorities and basin councils.\n\nCONAGUA is the highest institution for water resource management in Mexico, including water policy, water rights, planning, irrigation and drainage development, water supply and sanitation, and emergency and disaster management (with an emphasis on flooding). CONAGUA is formally under the authority of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaria del Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales – SEMARNAT) but it enjoys considerable de facto autonomy. It employs 17,000 professionals and has 13 regional offices and 32 state offices.\n\nThe CEAs are autonomous entities that usually are under the authority of the State Ministry of Public Works. Their attributions are different among states and can include water resources management, irrigation and the provision of water supply and sanitation services.\n\nThe recently created Basin Authorities (BAs) will develop from the 13 existing Regional Offices of CONAGUA and are expected to be responsible for formulating regional policy, designing programs to implement such policies, conducting studies to estimate the value of the financial resources generated within their boundaries (water user fees and service fees), recommending specific rates for water user fees and collecting them.\n\nBasin Councils (BCs) are expected to guide, together with CONAGUA, BAs work. There are a total of 25 BCs that have been established with the same basin boundaries as the BAs, but in some cases with two or more BCs within the area of one BA. Some states are located entirely within the area of one BC. In other cases, one state is divided between two or more BCs. In the latter case, the state participates in all of the BCs within its territory.\n\nThe 2004 amended National Water Law (NWL) aims to restructure CONAGUA key functions through the transfer of responsibilities from the central level to subnational entities: the basin agencies (Organismos de Cuenca – BA) and Basin Councils (Consejos de Cuenca – BC). BA and BCs are expected to play an increasing role in the sector limiting CONAGUA's role to the administration of the NWL, the conduct of national water policy, and planning, supervision, support and regulatory activities.\n\nThe NWL also introduced a Water Financing System (Sistema Finaciero del Agua – SFA). CONAGUA will create together with the Ministry of Finance appropriate instruments to determine funding sources, spending guidelines, cost recovery, settling of accounts and management indicators.\n\nTwo key instruments of water resources management at the disposal of the CNA are permits and abstraction charges. However, the effectiveness of permits is reduced by the fact that the total volume of water for which permits have been granted exceeds total water availability in some regions. A total of 344,473 permits were registered in 2005 in the public register of water rights established in 1992. The total volume of water for which permits were granted is 76 BCM/year, excluding permits for hydropower, which is a non-consumptive use of water.\n\nWater resource pricing through abstraction charges is carried out on the basis of the Federal Rights Law, which classifies the country in nine water scarcity zones. In zones with the highest water scarcity, generally in the North, abstraction charges are highest. However agriculture as the major water user is exempt from the abstraction charge and the charge only paid by industry and municipal users. This considerably limits the effectiveness of the charge as a tool for water demand management, although it has been very effective at mobilizing financial resources. Total revenues from abstraction charges were 6.5bn Pesos in 2005, accounting for 80% of CNA revenues.\n\nThe sharing of the waters of the Colorado River, the Tijuana River and the Rio Bravo/Rio Grande is defined in the Treaty of Washington between the USA and Mexico signed on February 3, 1944.\n\n\n"}
