{"id": "6763247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6763247", "title": "Abdullah Abdul Latif Al Othman", "text": "Abdullah Abdul Latif Al Othman\n\nAbdullah Abdul Latif Al Othman () (1895 – 1965) was a Kuwaiti businessman who was amongst the first to live in Hawalli. He was known for his generosity and helping the poor both locally and regionally. He started a school with his brothers called Al Othman School in the 1930s. Has a street named after him in Hawalli and a mosque which he built himself in 1958, as well as Mosques in Lebanon. He also started the largest and most well-known charity in the Islamic World as Zakat called Zakat Al Othman ().\n\nHis half brother, Mulla Othman Al Othman was a great Islamic Scholar and Imam in Kuwait.\n"}
{"id": "46892700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46892700", "title": "Air Transport Network", "text": "Air Transport Network\n\nAir transport network or air transportation network (ATN) is an example of transport networks and spatial networks. The nodes of the network are the airports and the links represent direct flight routes between two airports. Alternatively, cities can be considered as the nodes with links representing direct flight connection between them. Air transport networks can be defined worldwide as well as for one region or for one airline company; the scale of the network can be global or domestic.\n\nThe graph of an air transport network is spatial but not a planar graph. The air transportation network is a complex network which has the properties of small-world networks and scale-free networks. The degree distribution of the nodes displays a heavy-tailed distribution. The hubs of the network have large connectivities and long-distance connectivities at the same time.\n\nAn anomalous property of the air transport networks is that nodes with relatively low degrees may have very high betweenness centrality. It is an important observation related to the robustness of complex networks. According to this finding the critical points of the system are not necessarily the hubs, but some other cities which uniquely provides routes to certain regions. For example, Alaska can be easily isolated from the other parts of the worldwide air transport network.\n\nThe worldwide air transport network defines communities. These communities are mainly determined by geographical factors. However, in some cases the borders of the communities are different from the borders of geographic regions. Such an example is the community of Europe and Asian Russia.\n\nThe worldwide air transportation network is represented by the database of International Air Transport Association (IATA). The worldwide air transportation network is a critical infrastructure with high impact on mobility, trade and economy.\n\nAnother examples are the air transport systems of a country or a country's own air transport company. It is particularly important, because the quality of the airports and national airlines are also the measures of the state of development of the country.\n\nModeling air transport networks aims airline companies to organize their routes in a cost-efficient way and therefore maximize their profits. Air transport network models are also the tool to investigate system robustness. They help to determine weaknesses of the system in case of various kinds of disruptions.\n\nAn alternative application is modeling human disease networks. Air transport network is used by millions of people every day, therefore it plays key role in the spread of some infections, such as influenza or SARS. In this sense air transport network is a transmitter similar to sexual networks, which is liable for the spread of AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21168754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21168754", "title": "Anders Dahlvig", "text": "Anders Dahlvig\n\nAnders Dahlvig, born 1957 in Sweden, is the former president of the Swedish furniture store chain, IKEA. Dahlvig started working for IKEA in 1984 and has held various positions since, including Store Manager, Country Manager of United Kingdom and Vice President, Europe. He held the position of CEO between 1999 and 2009 and has received various recognitions for IKEA Group’s work to promote diversity. Dahlvig currently serves as Chairman of group parent company Inter-IKEA (2016). Dahlvig is a member of European Retail Round Table and received the Swedish award for Good Environmental Leadership in 2002 for his independent and persistent work with environmental and sustainability issues. In 2006, he also received the U.S. Foreign Policy Association’s Global Social Responsibility award. Dahlvig is a regular keynote speaker at international conferences. He earned a B.S. in business administration from Lund University and a Master’s degree in economics from University of California, Santa Barbara.\n\nAdditionally, Anders Dahlvig serves on the Board of UK-based retailer Kingfisher plc as a non-executive Director.\n"}
{"id": "10993859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10993859", "title": "Auditing Standards Board", "text": "Auditing Standards Board\n\nIn the United States, the Auditing Standards Board (ASB) is the senior technical committee designated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) to issue auditing, attestation, and quality control statements, standards and guidance to certified public accountants (CPAs) for non-public company audits. Created in October 1978, it is composed of 19 members representing various industries and sectors, including public accountants and private, educational, and governmental entities. It issues pronouncements in the form of statements, interpretations, and guidelines, which all CPAs must adhere to when performing audits and attestations.\n\nThe American Institute of Certified Public Accountants has issued guidance to accountants and auditors since 1917, when, at the behest of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and auspices of the Federal Reserve Board, it issued a series of pamphlets to the accounting community in regard to preparing financial statements and auditing (then referred to as \"verification\" and later \"examination\"). \"Verification of Financial Statements\", the first pamphlet dedicated exclusively to providing guidance for audits, was issued in 1929. With its opening paragraph, the guidance provided one of the most fundamental principles in auditing, stating that \"the responsibility for the extent of the (audit) work required must be assumed by the auditor.\" In 1936 the AICPA revised its prior pronouncements and issued \"Examination of Financial Statements by Independent Public Accountants\", which contained more detailed guidance on performing audit procedures for audits of small and mid-sized companies, while still emphasizing the need to perform the audit based on the nature of the client, its size, and its internal control structure, among other attributes.\n\nOn January 30, 1939, the Committee on Auditing Procedure was formed by the AICPA to evaluate, discuss, and issue guidance exclusively on auditing-related matters. This Committee is considered the antecessor of the Auditing Standards Board, and was the first to issue Statements on auditing standards and principles to the public accounting community. In 1941 it issued a pamphlet titled \"Statements on Auditing Procedure\", which discussed the auditor’s responsibility in applying judgment in audits. It was followed by a series of numbered pronouncements called \"Statements on Auditing Procedures\", or SAP (the antecessors of Statements on Auditing Standards), issued between 1939 up to the early 1970s for a total of 54 SAP pronouncements. During that time, the Securities Exchange Commission required public accountants to include a representation in their independent audit reports that the audit was performed in compliance with generally accepted auditing standards, and the Committee issued a booklet titled \"Generally Accepted Auditing Standards—Their Significance and Scope\" to adopt the SEC’s requirement. In 1963, the Committee issued \"Statement on Auditing Procedure No. 33\" to consolidate and replace various pronouncements issued between 1949 and 1963, including pamphlets and statements.\n\nIn 1972, the AICPA implemented significant changes to its standard-setting practices by consolidating all auditing pronouncements up to that date under Statements on Auditing Standards (SAS), and gave the Committee the title of senior technical committee on auditing matters while changing its name to Auditing Standards Executive Committee. From 1972 through 1978 the Executive Committee issued SAS as the authoritative guidelines and rules for auditing, issuing a total of 23 SAS.\n\nIn October 1978, following extensive studies by the AICPA and its sub-committees, its governing council established the Auditing Standards Board as the maximum authoritative body in establishing GAAS, thereby consolidating and replacing all previous senior technical committees. It required all AICPA members and public accountants to adhere to the ASB’s pronouncements in relation to audit, attestation, and quality control. The ASB would now define auditor responsibilities and provide guidance to allow them to accomplish work and emit a report, among others.\n\nThe Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 changed the hierarchy of generally accepted auditing principles and standards. The legislation established that the new Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) and the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) now had final authority over auditing regulation and public-auditor professional-practices standards for audits of public companies, also referred to as \"issuers\". Public accountants and firms who audit public companies were required to register with the PCAOB and follow all standards, principles, rules, and interpretations issued by the PCAOB in regard to public company audits and audit reports, as well as attestation and quality control. The PCAOB adopted the ASB's auditing and attest standards as its temporary auditing rules in 2003.\n\nThe AICPA subsequently changed the designation of the leading GAAS-setting authority in February 2004. It designated the PCAOB as the authoritative body for GAAS related to public companies, while the ASB was designated for non-public companies.\n\nThe Auditing Standards Board consists of 20 members (see table for current Board members), each nominated by the Director of the AICPA Audit and Attest Standards Staff and approved by the AICPA Board of Directors. The Board has a Chairman to direct Board meetings and to establish procedures, sub-committees, and perform other similar tasks in conjunction with the Director. To assure that the different industries and sectors are represented, the AICPA has reserved nominations for different industry segments as part of its operating policies:\n\nBoard members serve a one-year term, after which they are evaluated by the AICPA for their performance, and can then be re-appointed for up to 3 one-year terms, or dismissed by the AICPA. The AICPA may extend the term of service if, for example, the member is working on a long-term project and the AICPA believes that such participation is crucial for the completion of the project.\n\nASB proposed pronouncements are discussed within the ASB membership, the AICPA and with the general public. The ASB meets periodically to discuss auditing issues and prepare and draft pronouncement proposals, and occasionally holds public hearings. The meetings are considered informal (no set of formal rules) to encourage open deliberation between its members. Matters which affect public interest, such as proposals of new SAS, are open to the public. The meetings and hearings are established by the ASB Chair, with public notices and meeting highlights and summaries printed in \"The CPA Letter\", and on the AICPA website. A quorum comprises the majority of ASB members or their representatives, and other members of the AICPA are usually invited also.\n\nProposed pronouncements are discussed in the ASB meetings, and the board members must vote before to issuing a draft proposal (called an \"exposure draft\") or the final version to the public with two-thirds of ASB members in favor. The voting results are included in the meeting highlights published, and any ASB member who dissents from issuing a pronouncement may request that the reasons for dissenting be included in the exposure draft or final pronouncement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15053744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15053744", "title": "Camille Blanc", "text": "Camille Blanc\n\nCamille Blanc (1847 in Paris – 1927), was a French municipal leader, with many interests in Monaco. From 1904 to 1925 he was founding mayor of Beausoleil, a town adjacent to Monte Carlo, which had previously formed part of La Turbie and had been known as Monte-Carlo-Supérieur.\n\nBlanc was also for many years President of the Société des bains de mer de Monaco, of Monte Carlo, and took a leading part in the administration of the Monte Carlo Casino.\n\nIn the later years of his administration of Monte Carlo Casino, his relations with Louis II, Prince of Monaco suffered a setback, and he withdrew to France as someone who had become \"persona non grata\" in Monaco's official circles.\n\nWhile married to Elizabeth Lanxade, his name was also linked to Madame Chinon, whose excessive gambling habits, indulged by Blanc, were widely believed by some observers to be substantially at the origins of the accusations of mismanagement which eventually led to Prince Louis' intervention and termination of his position at Monte Carlo Casino.\n\nIn the closing years of Blanc's life, up to his death in 1927, he suffered severely from paralysis, said to have been derived mainly from the reported stresses of his experience of dealing with the Monaco authorities.\n\nHowever, the separate existence and prosperity of the neighbouring French town of Beausoleil may have proved to be Blanc's principal lasting legacy. The town hall of Beausoleil in the rue de la République has a sculpture and gardens dedicated to the memory of Camille Blanc.\n\n"}
{"id": "8498824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8498824", "title": "Casino, Inc.", "text": "Casino, Inc.\n\nCasino, Inc. is a business simulation game for Windows. The player must construct a casino, fill it with attractions such as blackjack and poker tables, and hire staff to maintain the casino.\n\nThe player begins by choosing a casino. Then the player chooses one of three cities: Little Hope Springs (Easy), Fortune Falls (Medium), or Chancersville (Hard). The player starts with $20,000 (Little Hope Springs), $50,000 (Fortune Falls), or $35,000 (Chancersville) to set up their casino and is given a variety of objectives to meet. Facilities and upgrades can be purchased, such as bars, kitchens, hotel floors, dance floors, table games and slots. Staff available for hire include hitmen, guards, dealers and hosts. Services for guests can be purchased such as limousines and shuttles. Players can also buy advertisements and must work against competitors who are trying to lure away patrons.\n\nAn expansion pack called Casino Inc The Management was released, adding more casino styles, cities, objects and abilities for your hitmen (bombs) and troublemakers.\n"}
{"id": "4200356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4200356", "title": "Collective capitalism", "text": "Collective capitalism\n\nThe theory of collective capitalism was advanced by American economist G. Means in the 1960s. It was intended to overcome the failings of traditional capitalism, using the Great Depression in the 1930s as an example. It rejects the principles advanced by Adam Smith, who created the notion of the \"invisible hand\" of 'self-correcting' market forces. The theory expresses the capitalist socialization of production, but only in a distorted manner. For example, Japan's collective capitalism relies on cooperation, but ignores the fact that the means of production are private. It cannot be considered socialist because the means of production belongs to corporations.\n\nThe essence of the theory of collective capitalism is expressed by Means in the following proposition:\n\n“We now have single corporate enterprises employing hundreds of thousands of workers, having hundreds of thousands of stockholders, using billions of dollars’ worth of the instruments of production, serving millions of customers, and controlled by a single management group. These are great collectives of enterprises, and a system composed of them or dominated by them might well be called ’collective capitalism’”.\n\nCollective capitalism places an emphasis on cooperative long-term relationships, resulting in an economy directed by \"relational markets\". An example of this is interlocking share ownership, in which companies own shares in other companies; this results in a spirit of cooperation between the involved companies, since each has an interest in the other's performance. An important example of this is the Japanese economy, in which 40% of the shares traded on the Tokyo Stock Exchange are owned by the collection of industrial groups known as the \"Kigyo Shudan\", and a further 30% is owned by the network of cross-shareholdings known as the \"keiretsu\". This results in stable ownership, lessening the potential for hostile takeovers and also \"friendly\" competition; companies are encouraged to excel but for the benefit of others as well as themselves.\n\nJapan is the only example of collective capitalism in practical form. It stems from Japan's economic and social restructuring following World War Two. This program of industrial development was successful until the 1990s. Japan has the world's third-largest economy by purchasing power parity (PPP) and the second largest by market exchange rates.\n\nCollective capitalism's influence can be seen elsewhere in modern Japan. Workers, particularly those who work for large businesses, become involved in their firms in ways unlike other capitalist systems. In return for loyalty and hard work, workers traditionally expect more from their employers than their western counterparts, including job security - often for life - pensions and social protection. This system of collective cooperation and the domination of the worker in corporate policy led to the Japanese system being dubbed \"peoplism\" by some critics.\n\nMany critics voiced concerns that while collective capitalism often provides benefits for workers, it also placed a high demand on them and their families. Long hours and high levels of discipline are commonplace, resulting in high levels of stress and the emergence of \"karōshi,\" or \"death by overwork,\" within the Japanese workforce.\n\n"}
{"id": "3557569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3557569", "title": "Comparison of management accounting and financial accounting", "text": "Comparison of management accounting and financial accounting\n\nThe differences between management accounting and financial accounting include:\n\nManagerial accounting is used primarily by those within a company or organization. Reports can be generated for any period of time such as daily, weekly or monthly. Reports are considered to be \"future looking\" and have forecasting value to those within the company.\n\nFinancial accounting is used primarily by those outside of a company or organization. Financial reports are usually created for a set period of time, such as a financial year or period. Financial reports are historically factual and have predictive value to those who wish to make financial decisions or investments in a company.\nManagement Accounting is the branch of Accounting that deals primarily with confidential financial reports for the exclusive use of top management within an organization. These reports are prepared utilizing scientific and statistical methods to arrive at certain monetary values which are then used for decision making. Such reports may include:\n\n\nFinancial Accounting, on the other hand, concentrates on the production of financial reports, including the basic reporting requirements of profitability, liquidity, solvency and stability. Reports of this nature can be accessed by internal and external users such as the shareholders, the banks and the creditors.\n\nWhile financial accountants follow Generally Accepted Accounting Principles set by professional bodies in each country or International Financial Reporting Standards, managerial accountants make use of procedures and processes that are not regulated by standard-setting bodies.\n\nManagerial Accounting provides top management with reports that are future-oriented, while Financial Accounting provides reports based on historical information.\nThere is no time span for producing managerial accounting statements but financial accounting statements are generally required to be produced for the period of 12 previous months.\n\n"}
{"id": "18576029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18576029", "title": "Consumer protection", "text": "Consumer protection\n\nIn regulatory jurisdictions that provide for it (comprising most or all developed countries with free market economies), consumer protection is a group of laws and organizations designed to ensure the rights of consumers as well as fair trade, competition and accurate information in the marketplace. The laws are designed to prevent the businesses that engage in fraud or specified unfair practices from gaining an advantage over competitors. They may also provide additional protection for those most vulnerable in society. Consumer protection laws are a form of government regulation that aim to protect the rights of consumers. For example, a government may require businesses to disclose detailed information about products—particularly in areas where safety or public health is an issue, such as food.\n\nConsumer protection is linked to the idea of consumer rights and to the formation of consumer organizations, which help consumers make better choices in the marketplace and get help with consumer complaints. Other organizations that promote consumer protection include government organizations and self-regulating business organizations such as consumer protection agencies and organizations, ombudsmen, the Federal Trade Commission in America and Better Business Bureaus in America and Canada, etc.\n\nA consumer is defined as someone who acquires goods or services for direct use or ownership rather than for resale or use in production and manufacturing.\n\nConsumer interests can also be protected by promoting competition in the markets which directly and indirectly serve consumers, consistent with economic efficiency, but this topic is treated in competition law. Consumer protection can also be asserted via non-government organizations and individuals as consumer activism.\n\nConsumer protection law or consumer law is considered as an area of law that regulates private law relationships between individual consumers and the businesses that sell those goods and services. Consumer protection covers a wide range of topics, including but not necessarily limited to product liability, privacy rights, unfair business practices, fraud, misrepresentation, and other consumer/business interactions. It's a way of preventing frauds and scams from service and sales contracts, eligible fraud, bill collector regulation, pricing, utility turnoffs, consolidation, personal loans that may lead to bankruptcy.\n\nThe following lists consumer legislation at the nation-state level. In the EU member states Germany and the United Kingdom there is also the applicability of law at the EU level to be considered; this applies on the basis of subsidiarity.\n\nIn Australia, the corresponding agency is the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission or the individual State Consumer Affairs agencies. The Australian Securities and Investments Commission has responsibility for consumer protection regulation of financial services and products. However, in practice, it does so through privately run EDR schemes such as the Financial Ombudsman Service (Australia).\n\nThe Nigerian government has a duty to protect its people from any form of harm to human health through the use and purchase of items to meet daily needs. In light of this, the Nigerian Consumer Protection Council (CPC), whose aim is to protect and enhance consumers' interest through information, education, and enforcement of the rights of consumers was established by an Act of Parliament to promote and protect the interest of consumers over all products and services. In a nutshell, it is empowered to Eliminate hazardous & substandard goods from the market. Provide speedy redress to consumer complaints and petition arisen from fraud, unfair practice and exploitation of consumer.\n\nGermany, as a member state of the European Union, is bound by the consumer protection directives of the European Union; residents may be directly bound by EU regulations.\nA minister of the federal cabinet is responsible for consumer rights and protection (\"Verbraucherschutzminister\"). In the current cabinet of Angela Merkel, this is Daniel Lindigrin.\n\nWhen issuing public warnings about products and services, the issuing authority has to take into account that this affects the supplier's constitutionally protected economic liberty, see Bundesverwaltungsgericht (Federal Administrative Court) Case 3 C 34.84, 71 BVerwGE 183).\n\nIn India, consumer protection is specified in The Consumer Protection Act, 1986. Under this law, Separate Consumer Dispute Redress Forums have been set up throughout India in each and every district in which a consumer can file his complaint on a simple paper with nominal court fees and his complaint will be decided by the Presiding Officer of the District Level. The complaint can be filed by both the consumer of a goods as well as of the services. An appeal could be filed to the State Consumer Disputes Redress Commissions and after that to the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC). The procedures in these tribunals are relatively less formal and more people friendly and they also take less time to decide upon a consumer dispute when compared to the years long time taken by the traditional Indian judiciary. In recent years, many effective judgment have been passed by some state and National Consumer Forums.\n\nIndian Contract Act, 1872 lays down the conditions in which promises made by parties to a contract will be legally binding on each other. It also lays down the remedies available to aggregate party if the other party fails to honor his promise.\n\nThe Sale of Goods Act of 1930 act provides some safeguards to buyers of goods if goods purchased do not fulfill the express or implied conditions and warranties.\n\nThe Agriculture Produce Act of 1937 act provides grade standards for agricultural commodities and live stock products.It specifies the conditions which govern the use of standards and lays down the procedure for grading, marking and packaging of agricultural produce.The quality mark provided under the act is known as AGMARK-Agricultural Marketing.\n\nModern Taiwanese law has been heavily influenced by European civil law systems, particularly German and Swiss law. The Civil Code in Taiwan contains five books: General Principles, Obligations, Rights over Things, Family, and Succession. The second book of the Code, the Book of Obligations, provided the basis from which consumers could bring products liability actions prior to the enactment of the CPL.\n\nThe Consumer Protection Law (CPL) in Taiwan, as promulgated on January 11, 1994, and effective on January 13, 1993, specifically protects the interests and safety of customers using the products or services provided by business operators. The Consumer Protection Commission of Executive Yuan serves as an ombudsman supervising, coordinating, reporting any unsafe products/services and periodically reviewing the legislation.\n\nAccording to the Pacific Rim Law & Policy Association and the American Chamber of Commerce, in a 1997 critical study, the law has been criticized by stating that \"although many agree that the intent of the CPL is fair, the CPL's various problems, such as ambiguous terminology, favoritism towards consumer protection groups, and the compensation liability defense, must be addressed before the CPL becomes a truly effective piece of legislation that will protect consumers\"\n\nThe United Kingdom, as it is still a member state of the European Union, is bound by the consumer protection directives of the European Union; residents may be directly bound by EU regulations. Specifics of the division of labour between the EU and the UK are detailed here. Domestic (UK) laws originated within the ambit of contract and tort but, with the influence of EU law, it is emerging as an independent area of law. In many circumstances, where domestic law is in question, the matter judicially treated as tort, contract, restitution or even criminal law.\n\nConsumer Protection issues are dealt with when complaints are made to the Director-General of Fair Trade. The Office of Fair Trading will then investigate, impose an injunction or take the matter to litigation. However, consumers cannot directly complain to the OFT. Complaints need to be made to the Citizens Advice Consumer Service (which has taken over from Consumer Direct) who will provide legal advice to complainants, or re-direct the individual complaint to Trading Standards for investigation. Due to restrictions within the Enterprise Act 2002, individual complainants are unable to be told whether their case is being investigated or not. In very rare cases, Consumer Direct may direct a very large number of complaints to the OFT to be considered as a systemic complaint. The OFT can also be engaged by consumer groups e.g. The Consumers Association or the statutory consumer protection body – Consumer Focus – via a super complaint. The OFT rarely prosecute companies, however, preferring a light touch regulation approach. Consumer complaints against companies are not published, but investigation work, undertakings, and enforcement are located at. Many of the consumer protection laws e.g. Distance Selling Regulations 2000 or Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 () are actually UK implementations of EU directives. The OFT is one of the bodies responsible for enforcing these rules. It leads to a problem that these examples of legislation are clearly designed to deal with individual complaints but the OFT will only deal with systemic complaints and will ignore individual complainants redirecting them back to Consumer Direct.\n\nThe Office of Fair Trading also acts as the UK's official consumer and competition watchdog, with a remit to make markets work well for consumers, and at a local, municipal level by Trading Standards departments. General consumer advice can be obtained from the Citizens Advice Consumer Service or via a local branch of the Citizen's Advice Bureau.\n\nOn the 3rd September, Conservative MEP Daniel Dalton proposed plans to the European Parliament's Internal Market and Consumer Protection Committee to introduce an App that would provide a single source of advice and dispute resolution. \n\nIn the United States a variety of laws at both the federal and state levels regulate consumer affairs. Among them are the federal Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, Truth in Lending Act, Fair Credit Billing Act, and the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act. Federal consumer protection laws are mainly enforced by the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Food and Drug Administration, and the U.S. Department of Justice.\n\nAt the state level, many states have adopted the Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act including, but not limited to, Delaware, Illinois, Maine, and Nebraska. The deceptive trade practices prohibited by the Uniform Act can be roughly subdivided into conduct involving either a) unfair or fraudulent business practice and b) untrue or misleading advertising. The Uniform Act contains a private remedy with attorneys fees for prevailing parties where the losing party \"willfully engaged in the trade practice knowing it to be deceptive\". Uniform Act §3(b).\nMissouri has a similar statute called the Merchandising Practices Act. This statute allows local prosecutors or the Attorney General to press charges against people who knowingly use deceptive business practices in a consumer transaction and authorizes consumers to hire a private attorney to bring an action seeking their actual damages, punitive damages, and attorney's fees.\n\nAlso, the majority of states have a Department of Consumer Affairs devoted to regulating certain industries and protecting consumers who use goods and services from those industries. For example, in California, the California Department of Consumer Affairs regulates about 2.3 million professionals in over 230 different professions, through its forty regulatory entities. In addition, California encourages its consumers to act as private attorneys general through the liberal provisions of its Consumers Legal Remedies Act.\n\nCalifornia has the strongest consumer protection laws of any US state, partly because of rigorous advocacy and lobbying by groups such as Utility Consumers' Action Network, Consumer Federation of California, and Privacy Rights Clearinghouse. For example, California provides for \"cooling off\" periods giving consumers the right to cancel contracts within a certain time period for several specified types of transactions, such as home secured transactions, and warranty and repair services contracts. \n\nOther states have been the leaders in specific aspects of consumer protection. For example, Florida, Delaware, and Minnesota have legislated requirements that contracts be written at reasonable readability levels as a large proportion of contracts cannot be understood by most consumers who sign them.\n\n47 national constitutions currently in force include some sort of consumer right. The Constitute project lists the text of each of these provisions Kenya's provision, for example, suggests that citizens have the right to\n\nThe Kenyan rule also stipulates that citizens would have legal recourse in the case of injury or product defects.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "765271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765271", "title": "Council for National Academic Awards", "text": "Council for National Academic Awards\n\nThe Council for National Academic Awards (CNAA) was the national degree-awarding authority in the United Kingdom from 1965 until its dissolution on April 20, 1993.\n\nThe establishment followed the recommendation of the UK government Committee on Higher Education (Robbins Committee), one of whose recommendations being the replacement of the diploma-awarding National Council for Technological Awards with a degree-awarding council. That gave colleges more flexibility, as they could devise their own courses with the oversight of the council, rather than depend on existing universities to accredit courses. In 1974, the National Council for Diplomas in Art and Design was merged into the CNAA.\n\nQualifications included diplomas, bachelors, masters and doctorate research degrees; by the time of dissolution, it had awarded over 1.3 million degrees and other academic awards. The CNAA awarded academic degrees at polytechnics, central institutions and other non-university institutions such as colleges of higher education until they were awarded university status. When the CNAA was wound up, the British government asked the Open University to continue the work of awarding degrees in non-university institutions. Additionally, the university has responsibility for CNAA records.\n\nThe CNAA, through its many subject panels, oversaw the degree-awarding powers of polytechnics. Above all, the CNAA saw itself as preserving a comparability at the national level with degree level awards in universities, a feature which can be seen as having both positive and negative aspects: positive in that it preserved a formal \"parity of esteem\" between the awards of the two parts of the binary system (such as retaining the common currency of the undergraduate degree for entry to postgraduate study), but other scholars viewed it as negative because it encouraged an \"academicism\" in the new sector and slowed an acceptance of the transformations required finally to break the boundaries of the old, \"elite\" system. In the event, the polytechnics were associated with many innovations, including women’s studies, the academic study of communications and media, sandwich degrees, advanced engineering degrees in all functional specialities, and the rise of management and business studies; not least, they were much more responsive than older institutions in providing for the admission of non-standard students from technical colleges, advanced apprenticeships and other sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "410722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410722", "title": "Cultural hegemony", "text": "Cultural hegemony\n\nIn Marxist philosophy, cultural hegemony is the domination of a culturally diverse society by the ruling class who manipulate the culture of that society—the beliefs, explanations, perceptions, values, and mores—so that their imposed, ruling-class worldview becomes the accepted cultural norm; the universally valid dominant ideology, which justifies the social, political, and economic \"status quo\" as natural and inevitable, perpetual and beneficial for everyone, rather than as artificial social constructs that benefit only the ruling class.\n\nIn philosophy and in sociology, the term \"cultural hegemony\" has denotations and connotations derived from the Ancient Greek word \"ἡγεμονία (hegemonia)\" indicating leadership and rule. In politics, hegemony is the geopolitical method of indirect imperial dominance, with which the \"hegemon\" (leader state) rules subordinate states, by the threat of intervention, an implied means of power, rather than by direct military force, that is, invasion, occupation, and annexation.\n\nThe etymologic and historical evolution of the Greek word \"ἡγεμονία\", and of its denotations, has proceeded thus:\n\n\nIn 1848, Karl Marx proposed that the economic recessions and practical contradictions of a capitalist economy would provoke the working class to proletarian revolution, depose capitalism, restructure social institutions (economic, political, social) per the rational models of socialism, and thus begin the transition to a communist society. Therefore, the dialectical changes to the functioning of the economy of a society determine its social superstructures (culture and politics).\n\nTo that end, Antonio Gramsci proposed a \"strategic distinction\", between a War of Position and a War of Manœuvre. The war of position is an intellectual and cultural struggle wherein the anti-capitalist revolutionary creates a proletarian culture whose native value system counters the cultural hegemony of the bourgeoisie. The proletarian culture will increase class consciousness, teach revolutionary theory and historical analysis, and thus propagate further revolutionary organisation among the social classes. On winning the war of position, socialist leaders would then have the necessary political power and popular support to begin the political manœuvre warfare of revolutionary socialism.\n\nThe initial, theoretical application of cultural domination was as a Marxist analysis of \"economic class\" (base and superstructure), which Antonio Gramsci developed to comprehend \"social class\"; hence, cultural hegemony proposes that the prevailing cultural norms of a society, which are imposed by the ruling class (bourgeois cultural hegemony), must not be perceived as natural and inevitable, but must be recognized as artificial social constructs (institutions, practices, beliefs, et cetera) that must be investigated to discover their philosophic roots as instruments of social-class domination. That such praxis of knowledge is indispensable for the intellectual and political liberation of the proletariat, so that workers and peasants, the people of town and country, can create their own working-class culture, which specifically addresses their social and economic needs as social classes.\n\nIn a society, cultural hegemony is neither monolithic intellectual praxis, nor a unified system of values, but a complex of stratified social structures, wherein each social and economic class has a social purpose and an internal class-logic that allows its members to behave in a way that is particular and different from the behaviours of the members of other social classes, whilst co-existing with them as constituents of the society.\n\nAs a result of their different social purposes, the classes will be able to coalesce into a society with a greater social mission. When a man, a woman, or a child perceives the social structures of bourgeois cultural hegemony, personal common sense performs a dual, structural role (private and public) whereby the individual person applies common sense to cope with daily life, which explains (to himself and to herself) the small segment of the social order stratum that each experiences as the \"status quo\" of life in society; \"the way things are\". Publicly, the emergence of the perceptual limitations of personal common sense inhibit the individual person’s perception of the greater nature of the systematic socio-economic exploitation made possible by cultural hegemony. Because of the discrepancy in perceiving the \"status quo\"—the socio-economic hierarchy of bourgeois culture—most men and women concern themselves with their immediate (private) personal concerns, rather than with distant (public) concerns, and so do not think about and question the fundamental sources of their socio-economic oppression, and its discontents, social, personal, and political.\n\nThe effects of cultural hegemony are perceptible at the personal level; although each person in a society lives a meaningful life in his and her social class, to him and to her, the discrete social classes might appear to have little in common with the private life of the individual man and woman. Yet, when perceived as a whole society, the life of each person does contribute to the greater social hegemony. Although social diversity, economic variety, and political freedom appear to exist—because most people \"see\" different life-circumstances—they are incapable of perceiving the greater hegemonic pattern created when the lives they witness coalesce as a society. The cultural hegemony is manifested in and maintained by an existence of minor, different circumstances that are not always fully perceived by the men and the women living the culture.\n\nIn perceiving and combating cultural hegemony, the working class and the peasantry depend upon the intellectuals produced by their society, to which ends Antonio Gramsci distinguished between bourgeois-class intellectuals and working-class intellectuals, the proponents and the opponents of the imposed, normative culture, and thus of the social \"status quo\":\n\nCultural hegemony has philosophically influenced Eurocommunism, the social sciences, and the activist politics of socially liberal and progressive politicians. The analytic discourse of cultural hegemony is important to research and synthesis in anthropology, political science, sociology, and cultural studies; in education, cultural hegemony developed critical pedagogy, by which the root causes of political and social discontent can be identified, and so resolved.\n\nIn 1967, the German student movement leader Rudi Dutschke reformulated Antonio Gramsci's philosophy of cultural hegemony with the phrase \"The long march through the institutions\" (German: \"Marsch durch die Institutionen\") to identify the political war of position, an allusion to the Long March (1934–35) of the Communist Chinese People's Liberation Army, by means of which, the working class would produce their own organic intellectuals and culture (dominant ideology) to replace those imposed by the bourgeoisie.\n\nAs conceptual criticism of cultural hegemony, the structuralist philosopher Louis Althusser presented the theory of the ideological state apparatus to describe the structure of complex relationships, among the different organs of the State, by which ideology is transmitted and disseminated to the populations of a society. Althusser draws from the concepts of hegemony present in \"cultural hegemony\", yet rejects the absolute historicism proposed by Gramsci. He argues that the ideological state apparatuses (ISA) are the sites of ideological conflict among the social classes of a society. That, in contrast to the repressive state apparatuses (RSA), such as the military and the police forces, the ISA exist as a plurality. While the ruling class in power can readily control the repressive state apparatuses, the ISA are both the sites and the stakes (the objects) of class struggle. Moreover, the ISA are not monolithic social entities, and are distributed throughout the society, as public and as private sites of continual class struggle.\n\nIn \"On the Reproduction of Capitalism\" (1968), Louis Althusser said that the ideological apparatuses of the State are over-determined zones of society that comprise complex elements of the ideologies of previous modes of production, thus, are sites of continual political activity in a society, which are:\n\n\nAlthusser said that the parliamentary structures of the State, by which the “will of the people” is represented by elected delegates, are an ideological apparatus of the State. That the political system, itself, is an ideological apparatus, because it involves the “fiction, corresponding to a ‘certain’ reality, that the component parts of the [political] system, as well as the principle of its functioning, are based on the ideology of the ‘freedom’ and ‘equality’ of the individual voters and the ‘free choice’ of the people’s representatives, by the individuals that ‘make up’ the people.”\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1414921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1414921", "title": "Culture of capitalism", "text": "Culture of capitalism\n\nThe culture of capitalism or capitalist culture is the set of social practices, social norms, values and patterns of behavior that are attributed to the capitalist economic system in a capitalist society. Capitalist culture promotes the accumulation of capital and the sale of commodities, where individuals are primarily defined by their relationship to business and the market. The culture is composed of people who, behaving according to a set of learned rules, act as they must act in order to survive in capitalist societies.\n\nElements of capitalist culture include the mindset of business and corporate culture, consumerism and working class culture.\n\nWhile certain political ideologies, such as neoliberalism, assume and promote the view that the behavior that capitalism fosters in individuals is natural to humans, anthropologists like Richard Robbins point out that there is nothing natural about this behavior - people are not naturally dispossessed to accumulate wealth and driven by wage-labor.\n\nPolitical ideologies such as neoliberalism abstract the economic sphere from other aspects of society (politics, culture, family etc., with any political activity constituting an intervention into the natural process of the market, for example) and assume that people make rational exchanges in the sphere of market transactions. However, applying the concept of embeddedness to market societies, the sociologist Granovetter demonstrates that rational economic exchanges are actually heavily influenced by pre-existing social ties and other factors.\n\nIn a capitalist system, society and culture revolve around business activity (the accumulation of capital). As such, business activity and the market exchange are often viewed as being absolute or \"natural\" in that all other human social relations revolve around these processes (or should exist to facilitate one's ability to perform these processes).\n\n"}
{"id": "24093035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24093035", "title": "Decision-making software", "text": "Decision-making software\n\nDecision-making software (DM software) is a term for computer applications that help individuals and organisations make choices and take decisions, typically by ranking, prioritizing or choosing from a number of options.\n\nAn early example of DM software was described in 1973. Before the advent of the World Wide Web, most DM software was spreadsheet-based, with the first web-based DM software appearing in the mid-1990s. Nowadays, many DM software products (mostly web-based) are available – e.g. see the comparison table below.\n\nMost DM software focuses on ranking, prioritizing or choosing from among alternatives characterized on multiple criteria or attributes. Thus most DM software is based on decision analysis, usually multi-criteria decision-making, and so is often referred to as \"decision analysis\" or \"multi-criteria decision-making\" software – commonly shortened to \"decision-making software\". Some decision support systems include a DM software component.\n\nDM software can assist decision-makers “at various stages of the decision-making process, including problem exploration and formulation, identification of decision alternatives and solution constraints, structuring of preferences, and tradeoff judgements.”\n\nThe purpose of DM software is to support the analysis involved at these various stages of the decision-making process, not to replace it. DM software \"should be used to support the process, not as the driving or dominating force.\" \n\nDM software frees users \"from the technical implementation details [of the decision-making method employed], allowing them to focus on the fundamental value judgements\". Nonetheless, DM software should not be employed blindly. \"Before using a software, it is necessary to have a sound knowledge of the adopted methodology and of the decision problem at hand.\"\n\nAs mentioned earlier, most DM software is based on multi-criteria decision making (MCDM). MCDM involves evaluating and combining alternatives' characteristics on two or more criteria or attributes in order to rank, prioritize or choose from among the alternatives.\n\nDM software employs a variety of MCDM methods; popular examples include:\n\nThere are significant differences between these methods and, accordingly, the DM software implementing them. Such differences include:\n\nIn the process of helping decision-makers to rank, prioritize or choose from among alternatives, DM software products often include a variety of features and tools; common examples include:\n\nDM software includes the following notable examples.\n\n"}
{"id": "11519693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11519693", "title": "Employer Registration", "text": "Employer Registration\n\nEmployer Registration is the process by which a person or legal entity registers their intent to employ someone.\n\nEmployers can fall into one of two categories, people or groups who run a business and people who employ household workers.\n\nPeople or legal entities who employ workers can include:\n\nPeople who employ household workers can include:\n\nIn the United Kingdom all employers, including self-employed persons, must register with HM Revenue and Customs.\nIn New Zealand, registration is made to the Inland Revenue.\nIn the United States, employers apply to the Internal Revenue Service to receive an Employer Identification Number.\n"}
{"id": "2305982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2305982", "title": "Ethical Consumer", "text": "Ethical Consumer\n\nEthical Consumer is a not-for-profit UK magazine and website which publishes information on the social, ethical and environmental behaviour of companies and issues around trade justice and ethical consumerism. It was founded in 1989 by Rob Harrison and Jane Turner.\n\nThe mission of the \"Ethical Consumer\" is to promote \"a society where the environment is respected, where human rights are properly protected and where animals are no longer cruelly exploited.\" The Ethical Consumer publishes reports and calls for boycotts of companies deemed unethical by its findings.\n\n\"Ethical Consumer\" magazine and its associated websites are produced by the Ethical Consumer Research Association (ECRA). Between 1989 and 2009 ECRA was a worker co-operative, based in Manchester, UK. In 2009 ECRA became a not-for-profit multi-stakeholder co-operative consisting of worker members and investor/subscriber members. It is an industrial and provident society.\n\n\"Ethical Consumer\" publishes a company ratings tables which rate various products across 19 criteria. The data behind the ratings tables is produced by research into the social, ethical and environmental records of companies, using media reporting, NGO reports, corporate communications and primary research.\n\nThe Corporate Critic website provides access to ECRA's database, tracking over 30,000 companies, providing information such as rating, ownership structure and turnover.\n\nECRA also undertakes consultancy and research on behalf of NGOs and corporate clients as well as providing a screening service. Clients have included: Amnesty International, Cafédirect, Christian Aid, Comic Relief, The Co-operative Bank, British Red Cross, Consumer Focus, Ecology Building Society, International Consumer Research and Testing, Friends of the Earth, Glasgow Caledonian University, Lush, Médecins Sans Frontières, Natural History Museum, Oxfam, The Guardian, the Soil Association, Vegetarian Society, WaterAid, Women's Institutes and WWF.\n\n"}
{"id": "42203959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42203959", "title": "Food industry in Bangladesh", "text": "Food industry in Bangladesh\n\nFood industry is a rapidly growing sector in Bangladesh, employing a significant portion of the labor force in the country. Between 2004 and 2010, the food processing industry in Bangladesh grew at an average 7.7 percent per annum. Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, in its 25006 Economic Census, reported that there were approximately 246 medium-sized food processing industries employing 19 percent of the industrial manufacturing workforce in Bangladesh or 8 percent of the total manufacturing labor force. The food industry employs 2.45 percent of the country's total labor force and its share in the GDP was 2.01 percent in 2010. There are also numerous small scale factories and domestic units engaged in food processing throughout the country. According to some industry analysts, the food processing sector in Bangladesh is a 4.5 billion US Dollar industry. In 2010, Bangladesh exported over $700 million worth of processed food and beverages, over 60 percent of them were shrimp and fish products.\n\nFood processing in Bangladesh has traditionally been small scale, with domestic or family business using common processing knowledge for the conservation and handling of raw agricultural commodities to make them usable as food and feed. Although commercial scale food processing using modern technology especially for wheat and rice milling, mustard seed crushing and very limited bread and cookie manufacturing appeared during the 1960s, the growth of this sector did not gain momentum in terms of operational scale and quality until the 1980s. Recently the defining characteristics of the industry has been the processing of increasingly diverse products to meet the changing demands of the Bangladesh population. The major food processing sub-sectors in Bangladesh include dairy, edible oil, sugar, rice, wheat, fruit and vegetable, tea, poultry/beaf, pulses and spices and fish processing industries. Induced by the vigorous growth of the diverse middle class population of Bangladesh and the growing demands for additional consumption, the food processing sector is set to witness further hefty expansion in the coming years.\n"}
{"id": "1358098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1358098", "title": "Fuller Building", "text": "Fuller Building\n\nThe Fuller Building is an office skyscraper in Manhattan located at 41 East 57th Street on the corner of Madison Avenue. It was built for the Fuller Construction Company in 1929 after they moved from the Flatiron Building. The building was designed by Walker & Gillette in the Art Deco style, although in a very conservative fashion. The building's exterior features architectural sculpture by Elie Nadelman, and the interior has richly decorated vestibules and lobbies featuring marble walls, bronze detailing, and mosaic floors.\n\nChristopher Gray wrote in \"The New York Times\" about the building that \"[i]t was built in 1929 as a jazz-age testament to the emerging commercial chic of 57th Street,\" while the \"AIA Guide to New York City\" calls it \"[t]he Brooks Brothers of Art Deco: black, gray and white.\"\n\nThe building was designated a New York City Landmark in 1986.\n\nThe Fuller Building is known for housing a number of New York's most important galleries including Nailya Alexander Gallery, DAG Modern, Tom Gitterman Gallery, Howard Greenberg Gallery, David Findlay Jr. Gallery, Katharina Rich Perlow Gallery, Jason McCoy Inc Gallery, Zabriskie Gallery, Andrew Crispo Gallery (closed), André Emmerich Gallery (closed), Robert Miller Gallery (moved), Charles Egan Gallery (closed), David McKee Gallery (moved), and the pioneering Pierre Matisse Gallery (closed), Lee Witkin Gallery (closed), amongst others. Although several galleries have either moved or closed, many newer ones, such as the Jason McCoy Gallery (11th floor), Hirschl & Adler (9th floor) or Auctionata, the online auction house, have taken their place.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "18634038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18634038", "title": "General line of merchandise", "text": "General line of merchandise\n\nGeneral line of merchandise or general merchandise is a term used in retail and wholesale business in reference to merchandise not limited to some particular category. General merchandise stores (general stores) address this sector of retail.\n\nAccording to the North American Industry Classification System 2002, the following types of general merchandise are excluded from the line carried by general stores:\n\nRegardless of this classification system, general stores indeed carry basic grocery items, often limited produce, basic hardware and gardening tools, and other necessaries of rural life. \n\n"}
{"id": "41375828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41375828", "title": "Hassan Bernoussi", "text": "Hassan Bernoussi\n\nHassan Bernoussi (; born 1965–rabat) is a Moroccan businessman and CEO of the group \"Interface\". He was the director of Morocco's department of foreign investments for 14 years. He studied at the school of Mohammed VI's late cousin Nawfal along with Mounir Majidi.\n"}
{"id": "58927325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58927325", "title": "Initiative Q", "text": "Initiative Q\n\nInitiative Q is an attempt to create a new payment network and digital currency. It was created by Israeli entrepreneur Saar Wilf, who previously founded Fraud Sciences, a payment security company acquired by PayPal. Q is backed by Cato Institute economist Lawrence H. White. Unlike Bitcoin the scheme would not take measures to evade state regulation.\n\nThe currency is marketed through chain email multi-level marketing, and will not be released until a critical mass of adopters identify themselves. In November 2018, Vox.com reported that more than 2 Million people had signed-up in 180 countries.\n\nIn October 2018, Frank Chung of news.com.au wrote that the marketing style could be \"perceived as a scam or pyramid scheme\". and FINTECH Singapore and Daniel Huszák of portfolio.hu compared it to multi-level marketing without the fee. Owen Gough of Digital Spy wrote \n\"Is Initiative Q real or fake? Short answer – we have absolutely no idea.\"\n\nBrendan Markey-Tower of Stuff.co.nz explained in November 2018 that the scheme wouldn't \"make you fabulously wealthy. It is, nonetheless, an interesting idea\".\n\nHuszák enumerated potential problems with the scheme such as no clear crypto-currency security measures, unclear transaction/exchange costs, and potential for market manipulation by the largest holders of currency.\n"}
{"id": "20407797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20407797", "title": "Ivan Gazidis", "text": "Ivan Gazidis\n\nIvan Efthimios Gazidis (born 13 September 1964) is the Chief Executive of Italian Serie A club AC Milan. \n\nOn 18 September 2018, he announced that he was leaving Arsenal to join AC Milan. He is due to take up the role on 1 December 2018. \n\nGazidis was born in Johannesburg, and moved to Manchester in the United Kingdom at the age of 4 and attended independent Manchester Grammar School, where he excelled as a football player, and was also a gifted drummer playing in at least two school-based rock bands. Being an adopted Mancunian from a young age, he supported Manchester City. Later he attended St Edmund Hall at the University of Oxford, where he was twice awarded a blue playing football against the University of Cambridge in 1984 and 1985. He graduated with a degree in law in 1986 and in 1992 he moved to the United States to work for Latham & Watkins.\n\nIn 1994, he joined the founding management team of Major League Soccer, becoming in 2001 its deputy commissioner. He oversaw MLS's key strategic and business decisions and its marketing arm, Soccer United Marketing, of which he was president. He also helped promote the Mexican Football Federation and the CONCACAF Gold Cup.\n\nIn November 2008 Gazidis accepted the post of chief executive of Arsenal, a post he formally took up from 1 January 2009. He succeeded former managing director Keith Edelman and was expected to take over many of the roles formerly undertaken by ex-vice-chairman David Dein.\n\nIn 2017–18, he oversaw significant personnel changes at the top of the club in preparation for then manager Arsene Wenger's departure, which was announced in April 2018.\n\nUpon announcing his departure, it was revealed his successors would be Vinai Venkatesham as Managing Director, and Raul Sanllehi as head of football.\n"}
{"id": "1713172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1713172", "title": "J. P. McManus", "text": "J. P. McManus\n\nJohn Patrick \"J. P.\" McManus (born 10 March 1951) is an Irish businessman and racehorse owner.\n\nBorn in Limerick, Ireland, McManus began his business career at his family's construction plant hire firm, and then became an on-course bookmaker at Limerick's Markets Field greyhound track. He later moved into horse ownership and punting and laying horses on the advice of his associate Jimmy Hayes.\n\nIn 1982, he and his wife, Noreen, a former mental health nurse, bought Martinstown Stud on over in County Limerick from the McCalmont family. McManus's first horse was Cill Dara, which had been owned by the late Edenderry solicitor and gambler, Tim O'Toole. McManus is now National Hunt racing's largest owner, with over 100 horses in training. In 2006, he built a €20 million residence next to Martinstown Stud. In 2013, he completed a €150 million home in Barbados.\n\nMcManus's first Cheltenham Festival winner was a horse called Mister Donovan in 1982. Mister Donovan was the second favourite and won the race after the favourite, Angelo Salvini, whipped around at the start. The rider of Angelo Silvani - Alan Brown - rarely ever rode again. McManus's distinctive green-and-gold-hooped racing colours are those of the South Liberties GAA Club, in Co Limerick. \n\nThe most famous of his horses is Istabraq, a three-time winner of the Champion Hurdle. Twenty time champion jockey Tony McCoy was retained as his stable jockey for a large part of his career, a role that Barry Geraghty has taken over since McCoy's retirement. Former champion jockey Jonjo O'Neill trains some of his horses at the Jackdaws Castle facility which McManus owns. He has often appeared at race meetings in recent years with the British actor Clive Owen. McManus was once close to jockeys Ted Walsh (Greasepaint at Fairyhouse one Easter Monday) and Niall Madden, T. Busteed, F. Codd and C. Roche, Micky Flynn and a slew of others. \n\nMcManus's horse Don't Push It, ridden by McCoy and trained by O'Neill, won the 2010 Grand National Steeplechase.\n\nIn 2012, McManus's horse Synchronised won the Cheltenham Gold Cup. Synchronised went on to run in the 2012 John Smiths Grand National with champion jockey Tony McCoy on 14 April 2012. Synchronised threw McCoy on the way to the starting area; after being caught and veterinary checks were performed, Synchronised was re-entered. However, he fell at Becher's Brook and sadly broke two legs and had to be put down. McManus had his 50th Cheltenham festival winner when Buveur d'Air won the 2017 Champion Hurdle.\n\nA significant part of McManus' wealth, though not all, appears to have been derived as a private foreign exchange trader, though seasoned traders doubt this very much, which McManus operates from a small office over a jewellery shop in Geneva, Switzerland, his city of official residence. McManus also had a permanent suite at London's Dorchester Hotel for over thirty years and he returns to Ireland regularly. Currencies are apparently his speciality, always working on the advice of his good friends Dermot Desmond and Joe Lewis. He now has a wide portfolio of investments from leisure centres and betting shops to pubs and nursing homes. He is a large shareholder in Ladbrokes. McManus appears to have been a holder of Junior Irish bonds at the time of the downturn.\n\nTogether with business associate John Magnier, McManus built up a 28.89 per cent shareholding in Manchester United, which they sold on to businessman Malcolm Glazer after falling out with manager Alex Ferguson. In 2004, McManus began sponsoring the Limerick GAA teams, choosing to use the non-commercial Sporting Limerick promotional brand on the jerseys.\n\nHe is also a keen golfer and a close friend of Tiger Woods, who married at the Sandy Lane Hotel in Barbados, which McManus co-owns. The wedding at Sandy Lane was a gift from the owners of Sandy Lane to Woods.\n\nMcManus routinely competes in Pro-Am golf events. He is a two-time winner of the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship pro-am pairs competition, partnering with Pádraig Harrington on both occasions.\n\nIn 1991, an Irish company law inspector, solicitor John Glackin, was appointed by the Irish Government to investigate complicated dealings involving Dermot Desmond and the purchase and sale of the former Johnston Mooney and O’Brien site in Ballsbridge, Dublin, to Telecom Éireann. While Desmond represented himself as an intermediary in the sale, Glackin’s report said Mr Desmond, businessman JP McManus and John Magnier were beneficiaries of the sale. Mr Desmond strenuously disputed Glackin’s findings.\n\nAccording to the Glackin Report, Hoddle Investments (the vehicle through which the deal was handled) executed two contracts with Telecom Éireann for the sale of the Johnston Mooney & O'Brien site for an aggregate price of £9.4 million, on 7 May 1990. Glackin concluded that McManus had loaned £1.5 million to Chestvale to purchase the site from the liquidator in August 1989. McManus made the investment through an AIB account in Jersey in the name of J&N McMahon. Whether this account was to the benefit of John and Noreen McManus was not confirmed as AIB refused to break client confidentiality.\n\nThe report concluded that McManus was a beneficiary of the sale of the site to Telecom Éireann, and received £500,000 in cash from the transaction, which Dermot Desmond had stored in a tennis holdall in his safe. At paragraph 5.4.4 of the report, Glackin concludes that:\n\nNo criminal charges were made against McManus or the other principals involved resulting from the findings of the Glackin Report.\n\nMcManus's personal fortune is estimated at €4 billion. McManus is reputed to have been affected by the economic downturn.\n\nIn 1996, McManus established the J. P. McManus Scholarship Award which provides €6,750 each year for third level education to eight selected students at his former secondary school C.B.S. Sexton Street in Limerick. Every five years, he organises the J. P. McManus Invitation Pro-Am golf tournament in Limerick to raise funds for Limerick charities. He has been awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Limerick and has funded the new Kemmy Business School at the University. Jim Kemmy was a close friend of McManus's. Kemmy introduced the famous Irish tax amnesty onto the floor of Dáil Éireann. In July 2012, McManus donated over €1 million to the Daughters of Charity foundation.\nHe has donated land money and horses to the st Josephs Foundation to help build Liskennett Farm Equine Therapy Centre,Limerick for adults and children with autism.\n\nMcManus won millions from gamblers Terry Ramsden and the late Robert Sangster by laying horses. He says he \"rarely bets\" these days and when he does he usually describes them as \"little bets\". He says betting is \"not an obsession\". In 2012, he won $17.4m gambling in the United States, of which $5.2m was retained as income tax by the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS). In 2016, \"The Irish Times\" reported that he was seeking a refund of the tax on the basis of the US double taxation treaty with Ireland; the IRS stated that McManus was a self-confessed tax exile out of Ireland and therefore - despite McManus's sworn affidavits to the contrary - not a legal resident of Ireland in 2012.\n\nMcManus was diagnosed with cancer in late 2008 and after receiving treatment in the United States, he is said to be recovering.\n\n"}
{"id": "7926131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7926131", "title": "James Edwin Doyle", "text": "James Edwin Doyle\n\nJames Edwin \"Ned\" Doyle (October 23, 1902 – March 5, 1989) was an American advertising executive and a co-founder of the Doyle Dane Bernbach agency established in Manhattan in 1949 and known as DDB. This agency, which he founded with Mac Dane and Bill Bernbach, bears the initials of the last name of each. It now is known as DDB Worldwide and is among the largest global agency networks.\n\nDoyle owned the American Basketball Association teams known as the \"Miami Floridians\" to the off season after the 1969-1970 season and then as \"The Floridians\" to the end of the franchise after the 1971-1972 season.\n\nA smoker, Doyle died of emphysema in Manhattan at age eighty-six.\n"}
{"id": "2489385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2489385", "title": "James Heathcote-Drummond-Willoughby, 3rd Earl of Ancaster", "text": "James Heathcote-Drummond-Willoughby, 3rd Earl of Ancaster\n\nGilbert James Heathcote-Drummond-Willoughby, 3rd Earl of Ancaster, (8 December 1907 – 29 March 1983), styled Lord Willoughby de Eresby from 1910 to 1951, was a British Conservative politician.\n\nAncaster was the son of Gilbert Heathcote-Drummond-Willoughby, 2nd Earl of Ancaster and Eloise Lawrence Breese. He was educated at Eton and Magdalene College, Cambridge. At Cambridge, he was a member of the University Pitt Club. In 1933 he was elected to the House of Commons as Member of Parliament (MP) for Rutland and Stamford, a seat he held until 1950. From 1933 to 1935 Ancaster was \"Baby of the House\", the youngest member of the House of Commons. He served in the Second World War as a major in the Royal Artillery, and was mentioned in despatches. \n\nIn 1951 Ancaster was summoned to the House of Lords through a writ of acceleration in his father's junior title of Baron Willoughby de Eresby. He succeeded as third Earl of Ancaster later that year upon the death of his father. Apart from his political career he was also Lord Lieutenant of Lincolnshire from 1950 to 1975 and Joint Lord Great Chamberlain from 1951 to 1983.\n\nLord Ancaster married the Hon. Nancy Phyllis Louise Astor (1909-1975), daughter of Waldorf Astor, 2nd Viscount Astor and Nancy Witcher Langhorne, in 1933. They had two children, one son and one daughter. His son and heir Timothy Gilbert (born 19 March 1936), went missing at sea off Corsica in 1963. Lord Ancaster died in March 1983, aged 75. On his death the earldom and barony of Aveland became extinct, while he was succeeded in the ancient barony of Willoughby de Eresby by his daughter Nancy, who also succeeded him as joint Lord Great Chamberlain. His Heathcote baronetcy was inherited by his distant relative Gilbert Simon Heathcote.\n\n"}
{"id": "37821213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37821213", "title": "Kamil Sindi", "text": "Kamil Sindi\n\nKamil Sindi (born January 3, 1932) (Arabic: كامل عبد رب الرسول سندي) was a Saudi businessman and the Director General of Saudi Arabian Airlines in 1967 and the Assistant Minister of Defense and Aviation in 1979.\n\nKamil Sindi joined the civil aviation department, at Jeddah airport when he was only 17. He worked there until he became the assistant of General Ibrahim Al-Tasan, who was in charge of the Air Force, civil aviation and the airlines at that time. He later was chosen to be the Director General of Saudi Arabian Airlines in 1967. During his days at the airline, he took it from a small company with a few DC-3s to an airline with a large fleet that included Boeing and Lockheed jets; and from an airline that had a few local destinations to an airline with large network of destinations in the Middle East, Africa, Europe and Asia. He invested a lot in creating institutions for training the personnel, and later teamed up with TWA to provide assistance in training. In 1979 he became the Assistant Minister of Defense and Aviation for Civil aviation. He retired in 1983 due to health problems.\n"}
{"id": "30207587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30207587", "title": "Kirill Kravchenko", "text": "Kirill Kravchenko\n\nKravchenko, Kirill Albertovich (born May 13, 1976 in Moscow) is Deputy Director General in charge of Administrative Affairs Gazprom Neft. Within Gazprom Neft is responsible to managing the organizational issues block, and for implementing several start-up projects of the company, for Operational Management System (OMS Etalon) and company safety. He is in charge of the introduction of \"Digitization\", a process that is implemented at the level of \"Gazprom\" group.\n\n\n\n\n\nOver the years, Kirill Kravchenko was elected to the board of directors of major Russian and foreign companies (USC Slavneft, JSC Tomskneft, Lifosa company, ITSC Construction Company,EmAlliance\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4593043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4593043", "title": "Lion Gardiner", "text": "Lion Gardiner\n\nLion Gardiner (1599–1663) founded the first settlement in New York on Long Island. His legacy includes Gardiners Island, which is held by his descendants.\n\nLion Gardiner was born in England in 1599. He and his wife Mary left Woerden in the Netherlands and embarked for New England in the ship \"Batcheler\" on July 10, 1635. The ship arrived at Boston at the end of November in 1635. Governor John Winthrop noted Gardiner's arrival in his \"Journal\" under the date November 28: \n\nHere arrived a small Norsey bark of twenty-five tons sent by Lords Say, etc, with one Gardiner, an expert engineer or work base, and provisions of all sorts, to begin a fort at the mouth of the Connecticut. She came through many great tempests; yet, through the Lord's great providence, her passengers, twelve men, two women, and all goods, all safe.\n\nShortly before departing from the Netherlands, he married Mary Willemsen Deurcant, the daughter of Dericke Willemsen Deurcant and Hachin Bastiens, who was born at Woerden about 1601. She died in 1665 in East Hampton, New York. She was buried next to her husband. They were the parents of three children: David, Mary and Elizabeth.\n\nTheir only son, David Gardiner, was born on April 29, 1636, at Saybrook. He married on June 4, 1657, Mary Leringman, a widow, at St. Margaret's Parish in the City of Westminster, England.\n\nMary Gardiner was born on August 30, 1638, at Saybrook, Connecticut. She married in 1658, Jeremiah Conkling, the son of Ananias Conkling, who was from Nottinghamshire, England.\n\nElizabeth Gardiner, was born on September 14, 1641, at the Isle of Wight, New York. She married in 1657, Arthur Howell, a son of Edward Howell of Southampton, Long Island. Her death led to the witchcraft trial of Elizabeth Garlick.\n\nGardiner was a military engineer in service of the Prince of Orange in the Netherlands along with John Mason, and he was hired by the Connecticut Company in 1635 to oversee construction of fortifications in Connecticut Colony. He finished and commanded the Saybrook Fort at the mouth of the Connecticut River during the Pequot War of 1636–37. In 1639, he purchased an island from the Montaukett tribe which they called \"Manchonat\", located between the North Fork, Suffolk County, New York and South Fork, Suffolk County, New York. The original grant by which he acquired proprietary rights in the island made it an entirely separate and independent plantation, in no way connected either with Connecticut Colony or New Amsterdam. He was thus empowered to draft laws for church and state. He called it the Isle of Wight, but it is now known as Gardiners Island.\n\nIn 1660, Gardiner wrote the firsthand account \"Relation of the Pequot Warres\". The manuscript was lost among various state archives until rediscovered in 1809; it was first published in 1833.\n\nLion Gardiner was buried in East Hampton, New York, and a recumbent effigy was erected in his memory in 1886. He and many of his descendants are buried in the South End Cemetery by Town Pond.\n\nLion Gardiner's descendants number in the thousands today. Some of his notable descendants include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23689405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23689405", "title": "Loek Hermans", "text": "Loek Hermans\n\nLouis Marie Lucien Henri Alphonse \"Loek\" Hermans (born 23 April 1951) is a retired Dutch politician of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD).\n\nHermans studied public administration at the Catholic University of Nijmegen. From 1974 to 1978 he was a member of the municipal council of Nijmegen. From 1977 to 1990 and also in 2002, he was a member of the House of Representatives. He was mayor of Zwolle from 1990 to 1994. Subsequently he was Queen's Commissioner of Friesland from 1994 to 1998, and afterwards from 1998 to 2002 minister of Education, Culture, and Science in the Second Kok cabinet. \n\nBetween 2007 and 2015 he was a member of the Senate, and from 2011 to 2015 also Senate group leader. He resigned after a judicial verdict of mismanagement at Meavita, a health care organisation where Hermans was chair of the board of commissioners when the organisation went bankrupt in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "57957482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57957482", "title": "Manjula Dayal", "text": "Manjula Dayal\n\nManjula Dayal is a businesswoman from Fiji. In 2017 she won Woman of the Year at the Women in Business Awards.\n\nIn 1990 Dayal started working in her husband's family business, M R Dayal & Sons, and in 1994 the couple co-founded Dayals Sawmillers. In 1998 they established a new sawmill in Ba. In 2005, they started a water bottling business which they sold in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "393536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=393536", "title": "Marc Ravalomanana", "text": "Marc Ravalomanana\n\nMarc Ravalomanana, GCSK () (born 12 December 1949) is a Malagasy politician who was the President of Madagascar from 2002 to 2009. Born into a farming Merina family in Imerinkasinina, near the capital city of Antananarivo, Ravalomanana first rose to prominence as the founder and CEO of the vast dairy conglomerate TIKO, later launching successful wholesaler MAGRO and several additional companies.\n\nHe entered politics upon founding the Tiako Iarivo political party in 1999 and successfully ran for the position of mayor of Antananarivo, holding the position from 1999 to 2001. As mayor he improved sanitary and security conditions in the city. In August 2001 he announced his candidacy as an independent in the December 2001 presidential election. He then took office as President in 2002 amidst a dispute over election results in which he successfully pressed his claim to have won a majority in the first round. Under the leadership of Jacques Sylla, Ravalomanana's Prime Minister from 2002 to 2007, the political party \"Tiako i Madagasikara\" (TIM) was founded in 2002 to support Ravalomanana's presidency and came to dominate legislative and local elections. He was re-elected in December 2006, again with a majority in the first round.\n\nDuring Ravalomanana's presidency, Madagascar made significant advances toward development targets and experienced an average of seven per cent growth per year. His administration oversaw the construction of thousands of new schools and health clinics. Road rehabilitation aided in improving rural farmers' access to markets. The establishment of the independent anti-corruption agency BIANCO, and the adoption of diverse supporting policies resulted in a decline in government corruption. The acreage of natural areas under protection expanded in fulfillment of Ravalomanana's \"Madagascar Naturally\" development program. The 2007 release of Ravalomanana's comprehensive development strategy, the Madagascar Action Plan, set targets and goals for national development over his second term in the areas of governance, infrastructure, agriculture, health, economy, environment and national solidarity.\n\nOpposition members criticized Ravalomanana in the later period of his presidency, accusing him of increasing authoritarianism and the mixing of public and private interests. In addition, the benefits of the country's growth were not evenly spread, leading to increased wealth inequality, inflation and a decline in purchasing power for the lower and middle classes. In 2008 a controversial land lease agreement with Korean agricultural firm Daewoo, the purchase of a costly presidential jet and the closure of media channels owned by opposition leader and mayor of Antananarivo, Andry Rajoelina, strengthened popular disapproval of his policies. Rajoelina rallied popular support for the opposition, leading to a popular uprising that began in January 2009 and ended two months later with Ravalomanana's resignation under pressure and Rajoelina taking control with military support in a power transfer viewed by the international community as a \"coup d'état\".\n\nFrom 2009 to 2012 Ravalomanana lived in exile in South Africa, where he was engaged in active negotiations with Rajoelina and former heads of state Albert Zafy and Didier Ratsiraka to organize national elections. In December 2012 he declared he would not present himself as a candidate, then a precondition to the elections being viewed as legitimate by the international community. TGV candidate Hery Rajaonarimampianina was elected president in January 2014, defeating Jean-Louis Robinson, the candidate of Marc Ravalomanana's camp. Upon attempting to return to Madagascar in October 2014 he was arrested, having been sentenced in absentia to lifelong hard labour for abuses of power by the Rajoelina administration. After his sentence was lifted and he was freed from house arrest in May 2015, Ravalomanana announced the re-opening of the Tiko business group and was re-elected the president of TIM.\n\nThe youngest of eight siblings, Marc Ravalomanana was born on 12 December 1949 to a farming family of humble means in the village of Imerinkasinina, east of Antananarivo in Manjakandriana District. Ravalomanana's parents worked as peddlers before opening a small shop in a rural village in Tamatave Province. Anticipating the regional violence that erupted during the 1947 Malagasy Uprising against French colonial rule, the family relocated to a village near their ancestral lands outside Antananarivo. Once resettled in the highlands, Ravalomanana's mother worked as a seamstress in addition to assisting her husband with farming their land.\n\nRavalomanana's family origins are Merina, the island's largest and most politically prominent ethnic group. The Ravalomanana family tomb is outside the historic walls of the village, a placement that would typically indicate the family's origins lie with the \"hova\" (commoners' caste), rather than the \"andriana\" — the traditional ruling caste among the Merina that continues to exert considerable influence over political affairs in modern Madagascar. His later entry into the political sphere has made the question of his caste background one of popular interest and ongoing debate among the Malagasy public and press. Biographer Vivier (2007) maintains that the Ravalomanana family is andriana in origin.\n\nFrom a young age he regularly attended the Church of Jesus Christ in Madagascar (FJKM), a Reformed Protestant church and, with 2.5 million adherents, the most important religious association in Madagascar. As a youth he sang in the choir and later taught catechism.\n\nFrom age five he began attending Anjeva public primary school, located from Imerinkasinina. He walked this distance daily, often departing early with baskets of watercress to sell to train passengers at the nearby station. He completed his upper primary schooling at the Protestant missionary-run Vinet private school in Ambohimalaza, where his mother arranged for him to live with a host family. After completing his primary studies he attended the Swedish missionary-run technical secondary school in Ambatomanga. He lived with one of his brothers and began producing and selling yogurt in individual serving pots to local villagers and students as a means to subsidize his studies. During this time he met his future wife, Lalao Rakotonirainy, a classmate at the secondary school. In 1972, in a climate of increasing political instability and widespread school-based protests against the Tsiranana administration, Ravalomanana dropped out of the school's eleventh grade program at the age of 23; he then pursued further technical training in Fianarantsoa. He participated in NGO-sponsored entrepreneurship training in Sweden and Germany, and business studies in Denmark underwritten by the Danish ambassador. After returning to Madagascar, he wed Lalao on 12 November 1974; their marriage produced one daughter and three sons.\n\nUpon completing his studies, Ravalomanana returned to Manjakandriana District, where he and his family began making and selling homemade yogurts, a common artisanal product in the highlands region. On his bicycle, he collected milk from farmers in neighboring towns, gradually increasing his production and clientele. He opened his first yogurt and cheese production center in 1977 in Sambaina on land he named \"Rova-Tiko\" (\"Tiko Palace\"), where he would build the first Tiko factory several years later. His wife handled the administrative and accounting side of the business from Ankadivato, where the storage facility for finished products was located. By the end of the 1970s, Ravalomanana's dairy business employed five salaried staff members and was distributing its products in stores across Antananarivo.\n\nRavalomanana solicited a loan from the \"Agence Française de Développement\" to further expand his business, but this request was denied, souring his view of France. His subsequent request to the World Bank for 1.5 million US dollars was approved, and in 1982 he founded the Tiko company. The representative of the World Bank to Madagascar at the time, José Broffman, secured the loan with exceptionally favorable reimbursement conditions that enabled Ravalomanana to sell his products at a lower cost than other small dairy producers, which gradually put his most significant competitors out of business. Broffman later left his post at the World Bank to become a principal investor in the company, joined by private investors from South Africa, Germany and the United States. As Tiko continued to grow, the entrepreneur began incorporating imported ingredients such as powdered milk from South Africa (constituting 80 per cent of the composition of Tiko dairy products) and surplus butter from Europe, further improving the profitability of his business and enabling additional diversification. Tiko Group first concentrated exclusively on the production of dairy products before expanding into fruit juices, ice cream, cooking oil and carbonated beverages. The Tiko slogan printed on many of the group's products, \"Vita Malagasy\" (\"Made in Madagascar\"), reflected Ravalomanana's national pride and his vision that Madagascar should develop a larger capacity to produce quality goods for distribution for national and international markets.\n\nRavalomanana cultivated political relationships to facilitate the continued growth of Tiko in spite of an economic climate non-conducive to free enterprise under the Socialist administration of Ratsiraka. Early support in the 1980s came from the Supreme Counselor of the Revolution Manandafy Rakotonirina, then-Minister of Finance Rakotovao Razakaboana, and another minister, Justin Rarivoson. By the mid-1980s, the profitability of his Tiko enterprise enabled Ravalomanana to purchase a costly villa formerly owned by French colonial governor Leon Reallon in the central Faravohitra neighborhood of Antananarivo.\n\nIn 1997, under the pretext of concern about mad cow disease, Ratsiraka obstructed Ravalomanana's plans to build a farm stocked with imported high-yield milk cows. Ravalomanana overcame the objection by breeding high-yield cows locally, thereby further boosting Tiko production. Later that same year, Ratsiraka's daughters began competing with Tiko by importing and reselling vegetable oil under the brand name \"Eden\". When Norbert Ratsirahonana declared himself a candidate in the 1997 presidential elections against Ratsiraka and Albert Zafy, Ravalomanana provided significant financial contributions to the Ratsirahonana campaign in return for tax exemptions on his edible oil products for a period of five years. The profits he consequently earned were reinvested to create the Magro wholesale company in 1998. By 2001, over a dozen principal warehouses throughout the country enabled widespread distribution of Tiko products to urban and rural areas, with a flagship warehouse in the Akorandrano neighborhood of Antananarivo.\n\nThe Ratsiraka administration launched an inquiry into Tiko business practices in September 2000 and issued an executive decision in June 2001 that the company should be shut down for failure to adhere to a 1996 agreement requiring Tiko to create jobs and produce low-cost vegetable oil; this ruling was overturned by the Supreme Court on 16 October 2002. A number of lawsuits have been filed over Ravalomanana's business practices, including a court judgment on the eve of the 2001 presidential election requiring the payment of between 200 and 363 billion Malagasy francs in Tiko back taxes, but all were either dismissed or ended in an out-of-court settlement; none resulted in a criminal conviction.\n\nAt its height during the period of Ravalomanana's presidency, Tiko provided direct salaried employment to between 1,000 and 3,000 staff and indirect employment to over 10,000. The group was the largest dairy producer in the country and a leader in the national agribusiness sector. The success of his enterprises made Ravalomanana a wealthy man. In the mandatory self-disclosure of wealth submitted to the High Constitutional Court in 2000 by all presidential candidates, Ravalomanana declared ownership of 27 properties valued at over two billion Malagasy francs. He owned 90 per cent of Tiko Inc., 80 per cent of Tiko Agri and 50 per cent of Tiko Oil Products, a portfolio worth 13.1 billion Malagasy francs, and declared 77 million Malagasy francs in annual revenues. Vivier (2007) demonstrates that the valuation of Ravalomanana's holdings and his annual revenue in particular were significantly underestimated.\n\nIn 1999, Ravalomanana decided to register as an independent candidate in the Antananarivo mayoral election rather than finance a representative from another party. The president of the Judged by Your Work Party (AVI), Norbert Lala Ratsirahonana, had met the entrepreneur several years prior in relation to Tiko business matters. The two discussed the possibility that Ravalomanana could run as an AVI candidate, but this idea was abandoned. His principal opponent, former Prime Minister Guy Willy Razanamasy of the Association for the Rebirth of Madagascar (AREMA party), suffered from low popularity, leading Ratsiraka to tacitly support Ravalomanana's candidature against the representative of his own party. By contrast, Ravalomanana was an unknown, attracting attention primarily for his considerable success in employment and wealth creation through Tiko, and his esteemed role as Vice President of the Church of Jesus Christ in Madagascar, which was vocal in its support for the candidate.\n\nSupporters among Ravalomanana's high-level Tiko staff established a group to promote his campaign, which he named \"Tiako Iarivo\" (\"I Love Antananarivo\"). The candidate spent over 700 million Malagasy francs on the campaign, drawn from the proceeds of his business and private donations. His campaign staff widely distributed promotional posters featuring the candidate's face, name and slogan, and handed out free Tiko yogurts and boxes of milk to the public. Ravalomanana's campaign posters often featured the Tiko logo and images of the candidate riding a bicycle laden with milk canisters to play on his image as a simple and poor farmer who, through intelligence, determination and responsible management, succeeded in developing a thriving business and would apply these same skills to develop the capital city. The Ravalomanana campaign received support on the basis of his evident success as a manager, his leadership in the Christian community and his non-alignment with Ratsiraka's AREMA party, as well as his relative youthfulness and physical attractiveness to female voters. The campaign opened on 2 November 1999, and by 8 November Ravalomanana held a led in the polls. In the 14 November municipal elections, Ravalomanana was elected mayor of Antananarivo with 45 per cent of the votes.\n\nUpon being elected mayor, Ravalomanana prioritized sanitation, security and public administration in the capital city. Provided a budget of approximately 11 million US dollars to manage Antananarivo, Ravalomanana took initiative to secure additional funds. He established a bank account for public and business contributions to city improvement projects, raising over $700,000 in six months. He obtained funds from international donors to establish garbage collection and disposal systems, restore dilapidated infrastructure such as roads and marketplaces and replant public gardens. He received regular guidance and council from Kurt Schmoke, recently Mayor of Baltimore, Maryland, with whom he had developed a friendship through his biannual business trips to the United States as CEO of Tiko. To improve sanitation conditions in the city, he constructed public latrines in densely populated or highly frequented areas. During his tenure, construction in the capital increased sharply, with twelve new supermarkets constructed in two years. Ravalomanana launched an initiative to install or repair street lights throughout the city to improve nighttime safety. He increased the number of police officers on the streets, leading to a drop in crime. His relationship with President Ratsiraka remained good through his early tenure as mayor, although his decision on 28 June 2001 to eliminate \"red zones\" – areas of the city where public assembly and protests were prohibited – provoked Ratsiraka's strong disapproval.\n\nIn an August 2000 interview with the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", Ravalomanana expressed the belief that development in Madagascar would require greater personal responsibility among the Malagasy populace, a better business environment, environmental protection and reduced corruption. In response to increasing media speculation that he could be a strong candidate for the presidency, he stated that he was ambivalent toward the prospect, declaring \"I miss the freedom of business, the ease of getting things done.\"\n\nOn 5 August 2001, in front of the FJKM church in his village of birth, Ravalomanana announced his intent to run for President in the election to be held on 16 December. His campaign promoted his image as a self-made man who would draw upon his business acumen to develop the country and played upon his relative youth (he was then aged 52) and his non-alliance with the elderly \"political dinosaurs\" who had dominated politics over the previous three decades. His humble origins as a village farmer inspired support among rural voters, who made up over four-fifths of the population. He was seen as the embodiment of the meritocracy many voters wished to see established in Madagascar in place of corrupt power networks dominated by nepotism. The Counsel of Christian Churches of Madagascar (FFKM) rallied behind Ravalomanana, whose electoral slogan was \"Don't be afraid, but have faith.\" Ravalomanana received counsel and support for his campaign from the former mayor of Baltimore and a director of former US President Bill Clinton's campaign.\n\nRavalomanana's announcement sparked retaliatory actions by the Ratsiraka administration, resulting in frequent defamatory attacks in the press and a court judgment fining him 300 billion Malagasy francs (55.6 million Euros) in unpaid back taxes, and two other lawsuits in relation to his management of Tiko, which were later settled out of court. These attacks were denounced by spokesmen for Ravalomanana's campaign support network, \"Tiako iMadagasikara\" (TIM), and in speeches the candidate delivered in urban and rural areas across the island, with travel made possible by his considerable personal wealth and the airplane and seven distribution helicopters registered to Tiko. Tiko distribution channels were used to distribute posters, baseball caps, tee-shirts and other promotional materials.\n\nOctober 2001 polls showed Ravalomanana ahead of Ratsiraka. Following the December election, official results put Ravalomanana in first place, with 46 per cent, against Ratsiraka's 40 per cent; without a majority, a run-off would be required between the two candidates. Ravalomanana, claiming to have won a majority in the first round, refused to participate in a run-off, instead demanding that the High Constitutional Court review the votes. Ratsiraka's supporters then blockaded the capital, which Ravalomanana's supporters controlled. Ravalomanana declared himself president on 22 February 2002. After a recount, on 29 April 2002 the High Constitutional Court declared that Ravalomanana had won 51.3 percent of the vote, enough for a narrow first-round victory. Je was sworn in on 6 May. Ravalomanana dispatched soldiers to bring pockets of resistance under control, with incidents of unrest continuing until Ratsiraka fled into exile on 5 July 2002 after losing control of most of the country's provinces.\n\nUpon election to the presidency, Ravalomanana sought to mitigate the negative economic impact of the eight-month political standoff with Ratsiraka, which had cost Madagascar millions of dollars in lost tourism and trade revenue as well as damage to infrastructure, including bombed bridges and buildings damaged by arson. He enacted a series of new laws, policies and reforms that sought to efface remaining traces of Ratsiraka's socialist ideology and replace it with a firmly capitalist, market-driven economic environment. In a break with tradition, the new head of state moved away from reliance on its principal trading partner, France, and cultivated relationships with partners such as Germany, the United States and South Korea as part of his strategy for Madagascar's economic development. He partnered with advisers at Harvard University to launch a rapid results initiative designed to spur rapid economic growth. In 2004 the World Bank approved his administration's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, entitled \"Madagascar Naturellement\" (Madagascar Naturally), in which he enshrined the principle of environmental conservation as inseparable from sustainable economic growth. The negative economic impact of the political crisis was gradually overcome by Ravalomanana's progressive economic and political policies, which encouraged investments in education and ecotourism, facilitated foreign direct investment and cultivated trading partnerships both regionally and internationally.\n\nAt the 2003 Durban World Parks Congress he pledged to more than triple protected natural areas on the island from to – ten per cent of the country's land surface – over five years. In 2004 he established BIANCO (\"Bureau Indépendant Anti-Corruption\"), an anti-corruption bureau, which resulted in reduced corruption among Antananarivo's lower-level bureaucrats in particular, although high-level officials have not been prosecuted by the bureau. That same year, the International Monetary Fund agreed to write off half Madagascar's debt. Having met a set of stringent economic, governance and human rights criteria, in 2005 Madagascar became the first country to benefit from the Millennium Challenge Account, a new development fund managed by the United States. Legal reforms strengthened state institutions, particularly the judiciary, and produced improvements in human rights, civil liberties and the business climate. Consequently, the economy grew at an average annual rate of seven per cent throughout his presidency. Under his administration, hundreds of kilometers of roads were paved in formerly isolated rural areas. Dramatic improvements in education and health were also achieved under his administration. During Ravalomanana's first term, thousands of new primary schools and additional classrooms were constructed, older buildings were renovated and tens of thousands of new primary teachers were recruited and trained. Primary school fees were eliminated and kits containing basic school supplies were distributed to primary students. Logging in protected areas was outlawed until January 2009.\n\nAfter being elected president in 2002, Ravalomanana remained a prominent player in the private sector. The 2003 privatisation of SINPA (\"Societe d'lnteret National Malgache des Produits Agricoles\"), the state agricultural corporation, and SOMACODIS (\"Société Malgache de Collecte et de Distribution\"), the national trading corporation, provided Ravalomanana the opportunity to purchase both entities, which he incorporated under Tiko. He also created a public roads construction company, \"Asa Lalana Malagasy\".\n\nThe benefits of economic growth during the Ravalomanana administration were not evenly distributed, leading to higher costs of living for all Malagasy and a deepening poverty among much of the population with fewer able to increase their wealth. Detractors indicate a decline in purchasing power and dramatic inflation early in Ravalomanana's presidency as evidence of a failure to reduce poverty. Ravalomanana's critics remarked that the greatest beneficiary of his reforms and policies was the president himself, giving the example of road construction projects that enabled Tiko to distribute more efficiently as well as the farmers and other small businesspeople targeted by the initiative. Furthermore, his own companies tended to be awarded most of the government contracts for which they bid, although this occurred transparently and legally, due to a weak legal framework around conflict of interest. Critics condemned his tendency to make unilateral decisions and disregard the views of his entourage, a number of whom resigned or were dismissed. Many joined an opposition movement that had gained considerable strength by late 2007.\n\nOn 18 November 2006, Ravalomanana's jet was forced to divert from Madagascar's capital during a return trip from Europe following reports of a coup underway in Antananarivo and shooting near the airport. The attempted coup was ultimately unsuccessful.\n\nRavalomanana ran for a second term in the presidential election held on 3 December 2006. According to official results, he won the election with 54.79 per cent of the vote in the first round; his best results were in Antananarivo Province, where he received the support of 75.39 per cent of voters. He was sworn in for his second term on 19 January 2007.\n\nDuring his second term, Ravalomanana oversaw revisions to the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. Renamed the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP), this new strategy was intended to build on the successes of his first term to accelerate and expand national development. The plan focused on \"the eight commitments\": accountable governance, more extensive and interconnected infrastructure, agriculture based rural development, family planning and health (particularly fighting HIV/AIDS), strong economic growth, environmental protection, and the traditional principle of \"fihavanana\" (solidarity). The plan's targets were aligned with the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals.\n\nAs construction of schools and hiring of teachers continued in Ravalomanana's second term, additional measures were adopted to improve education quality, including a shift to Malagasy as the language of instruction in grades one to five, expansion of primary schools to house grades six and seven for greater access to lower secondary schooling and an overhaul of the national curriculum, which had been modified piecemeal since independence from France in 1960. In the Constitution of 2007, English was added to Malagasy and French as an official language, in reflection of Ravalomanana's goal to increase Madagascar's participation in the global market.\n\nIn the later half of his second term, Ravalomanana was criticized by domestic and international observers, who accused him of increasing authoritarianism and corruption.\n\nOn 13 December 2008, the government closed Viva TV, owned by mayor of Antananarivo Andry Rajoelina, stating that a Viva interview with exiled former head of state Didier Ratsiraka was \"likely to disturb peace and security\". This move catalyzed the political opposition and a public already dissatisfied with other recent actions undertaken by Ravalomanana, including a July 2008 deal with Daewoo Logistics to lease half the island's arable land for South Korean cultivation of corn and palm oil, and the November 2008 purchase of a second presidential jet at a cost of 60 million U.S. dollars. Within a week, Rajoelina met with twenty of Madagascar's most prominent opposition leaders (referred to in the press as the \"Club of 20\"), to develop a joint statement demanding that the Ravalomanana administration improve its adherence to democratic principles. The demand was broadcast at a press conference, where Rajoelina promised to dedicate a politically open public space in the capital, which he would call \"Place de la democratie\" (\"Democracy Square\").\n\nBeginning in January 2009, Rajoelina led a series of political rallies in downtown Antananarivo where he gave voice to the frustration that Ravalomanana's policies had triggered, particularly among the economically marginalized and members of the political opposition. On 3 February, Ravalomanana dismissed Rajoelina as mayor of Antananarivo and appointed a special delegation headed by Guy Randrianarisoa to manage the affairs of the capital. Rajoelina incited demonstrators on 7 February to occupy the president's office in Ambohitsorohitra Palace in central Antananarivo. The presidential guard opened fire on the advancing crowd, killing 31 and wounding more than 200. Ravalomanana became the third president since independence (after Ratsiraka and Philibert Tsiranana) to allow the defense forces to shoot at civilians; several months later, at a demonstration led by Ravalomanana supporters, Rajoelina would become the fourth president to authorize such an action. Popular disapproval of Ravalomanana intensified and polarized some in favor of his resignation, although perceptions of Rajoelina as an alternative remained mixed. Conflicts between pro-Rajoelina demonstrators and security forces continued over the following weeks, resulting in several additional deaths.\n\nOn 11 March, following a declaration of neutrality by army leadership, pro-opposition soldiers from the Army Corps of Personnel and Administrative and Technical Services (CAPSAT) stormed the army headquarters and forced the army chief of staff to resign. Over the next several days the army deployed forces to enable the opposition to occupy key ministries, the chief of military police transferred his loyalty to Rajoelina and the army sent tanks against the president's Iavoloha Palace. Rajoelina rejected Ravalomanana's offer on 15 March to hold a national referendum to determine whether the president should resign, and called on security forces to arrest the president. The following day, the army stormed the Ambohitsorohitra Palace and captured the Central Bank. Hours later, Ravalomanana transferred his power to a group of senior army personnel, an act described by the opposition as a voluntary resignation. Ravalomanana later declared he had been forced at gunpoint to relinquish power. The military council would have been charged with organizing elections within 24 months and re-writing the constitution for the \"Fourth Republic\". However, Vice Admiral Hyppolite Ramaroson announced on 18 March that the council would transfer power directly to Rajoelina, making him president of the opposition-dominated High Transitional Authority (HAT) that he had appointed weeks earlier. With the military's backing, the HAT was charged with taking up the tasks previously accorded to Ravalomanana's proposed military directorate. Madagascar's constitutional court deemed the transfer of power, from Ravalomanana to the military board and then to Rajoelina, to be legal; the court's statement did not include a justification for its decision. Rajoelina was sworn in as President on 21 March at Mahamasina Municipal Stadium before a crowd of 40,000 supporters, a transfer of power that was considered illegitimate and unconstitutional by the international community and widely described in the press as a coup d'état.\n\nAfter coming to power, Rajoelina's HAT pursued legal action against Ravalomanana. On 2 June 2009, Ravalomanana was fined 70 million US dollars (42 million British pounds) and sentenced to four years in prison for alleged abuse of office which, according to HAT Justice Minister Christine Razanamahasoa, included the December 2008 purchase of a presidential jet worth $60 million. Razanamahasoa claimed Ravalomanana \"mixed public interests with his personal interests\". The former head of state was in exile in South Africa at the time, having been prevented from returning to Madagascar the previous month. Additionally, on 28 August, Ravalomanana was sentenced \"in absentia\" to hard labour for life for his role in the protests and ensuing deaths. Arrest warrants were also issued for General Heriniaina Roelina and Colonel Anatole Ramlamboarison. Ravalomanana's Tiko Group faced heavy pressure from the transitional government, which in April 2009 demanded that the company pay 35 million US dollars in back taxes or risk being shut down.\n\nBoth Ravalomanana and Rajoelina were requested by the Southern African Development Community (SADC) to renounce participation in the 2013 Malagasy presidential elections in order to hasten an end to the ongoing political crisis. On 10 December 2012, Ravalomanana announced that he would not participate in the elections, and encouraged Rajoelina to follow suit, in line with SADC recommendations. Rajoelina complied; however, when Ravalomanana's wife Lalao submitted her candidacy several months later, Rajoelina resubmitted his candidacy, declaring that Marc Ravalomanana sought to govern by proxy through his wife. In August 2013, a special electoral court invalidated the candidacy of Lalao Ravalomanana, as well as her chief competitors Rajoelina and Ratsiraka. TGV candidate Hery Rajaonarimampianina was elected president in January 2014, defeating Jean-Louis Robinson, the candidate of Marc Ravalomanana's camp. Upon attempting to return to Madagascar in October 2014 Ravalomanana was arrested, having been sentenced in absentia to lifelong hard labour for abuses of power by the Rajoelina administration. After his sentence was lifted and he was freed from house arrest in May 2015, Ravalomanana recommenced broadcasts at his MBS radio station, announced the re-opening of the TIKO business group, and was re-elected the president of TIM.\n\nRavalomanana is known for his fervent Christian faith. As a young adult he gradually took on increasingly responsible leadership roles within his church community. In early 2000 he replaced a member of the eastern Antananarivo synod in its Christian Men's Committee and was quickly elected its president. In August the same year he was elected as head layman and Vice-President of the FJKM. In 2005, he was quoted as saying that he \"dream[s] of a Christian nation\", a vision that critics considered a violation of the constitution, which described the state as secular. A 2007 constitutional referendum removed this descriptor, among other changes. While Ravalomanana enjoyed strong support from the FJKM and other church organizations early in his political career, these organizations placed increasing pressure on him over time, viewing his policies as inadequately effective in reducing poverty across the island.\n\nRavalomanana owns media group Malagasy Broadcasting System (MBS), which operates radio and television stations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7028545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7028545", "title": "Maxime, McDuff &amp; McDo", "text": "Maxime, McDuff &amp; McDo\n\nMaxime, McDuff & McDo is a 2002 documentary film by Magnus Isacsson that shows the attempt to unionize a McDonald's restaurant in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. They were successful, but McDonald's quickly shut down the franchise after the union won.\n\n"}
{"id": "31993095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31993095", "title": "Mikael Storsjö", "text": "Mikael Storsjö\n\nMikael Storsjö (born December 22, 1957) is a Finnish IT entrepreneur, journalist and non-governmental organization activist. He is a board member of FINROSFORUM. He is known for his clashes with the Finnish and Swedish authorities concerning the hosting of the Kavkaz Center's website on his servers. In 2011–2012, he has also been involved in a court case, in which he was found guilty of arranging illegal entry into Finland of 25 Chechens.\n\nIn Finland Storsjö became a public figure in October 2004, when the Lithuanian government banned the Kavkaz Center website, and Storsjö moved the website to his server in Finland. The Finnish Security Intelligence Service (FSIS) then confiscated his servers.\n\nIn the public discussion that then ensued, there was a general agreement that the authorities had violated the freedom of speech with their actions.\n\nAfter these events, Storsjö has continued to support Kavkaz Center by offering them the use of his servers both in Finland and in Sweden.\n\nKavkaz Center is an internet news agency which publishes news on Chechnya and the Caucasus region from the point of view of the Mujahideen warriors. It is believed that the Kavkaz Center is in the control of the “minister of public relations” of the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria, Movladi Udugov. Udugov belongs to the Islamic warriors of the region.\n\nThe publishing activities of the Kavkaz Center are known to be a sore point for Russia, which is involved in a war in the area. Russia has tried to resort to diplomatic means in order to prevent the website from being hosted in various countries, including Sweden and Finland. The Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov has said that the website is being used to incite people to conduct terrorist activities. Those who defend the website, however, argue that mediation of news based on pluralistic values is the only way that both parties of the conflict can make their views known to the public.\n\nThe Kavkaz Center website was closed in Lithuania in the autumn of 2004, on request by Russia, after the Beslan school hostage crisis, when the website had published a message from Shamil Basayev, in which he assumed responsibility for the attack.\n\nAfter this Storsjö offered the website the services of his servers in his web hotel. Finnish Foreign Minister Erkki Tuomioja then wrote in his own website, after he found out about the existence of the website on a Finnish server, that “\"[in Finland] measures were taken immediately to close down the website\"” and that the website had now been closed down.\n\nLater Tuomioja stated that the \"actions by the authorities may have been initiated at the same time or after the information about the opening of the website was passed on to the foreign minister, but these actions were not based on any instructions from the Foreign Ministry, to whose jurisdiction they do not by any means belong.\"\n\nAccording to the acting head of the FSIS, Mr. Hannu Moilanen, the actions of the security intelligence service were approved from a high level: \"We were in good co-operation with the head of the state, who blessed our actions and considered them quite necessary.\"\n\nThe Finnish Security Intelligence Service first asked the internet operator TeliaSonera to disconnect Storsjö’s server from the web. TeliaSonera did not agree to this, since in their opinion the Chechen rebels website did not break any law.\n\nAfter this the Finnish Security Intelligence Service asked Storsjö to remove the Kavkaz Center website from his server, but Storsjö refused to do this, citing freedom of speech as his grounds. On the following day representatives of the Security Intelligence Service went to see an associate of Storsjö in order to discuss the matter, and the associate handed the server over to the Security Intelligence Service so that they could investigate it.\n\nDue to these events, president of the Committee on Constitutional Matters of the Finnish Parliament, MP Kimmo Sasi submitted a written question to the government on the actions of the Security Intelligence Service, to which Minister of the Interior, Mr. Kari Rajamäki replied, “that there was nothing in the actions of the Security Intelligence Service that would merit a reprimand.”\n\nDuring his visit to Finland, Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov thanked Finnish Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen for having closed down the Kavkaz Centerin website. When it was no longer possible to operate in Finland, Storsjö transferred Kavkaz Center to his servers in Sweden, but when it was found out that the website was legal in Finland, he opened it on his Finnish servers.\n\nThe Russian ambassador to Finland, Mr. Vladimir Grinin then asked Finnish members of Parliament why it was allowed in Finland to keep the Kavkaz Center website on Finnish servers and nothing had been done about it. On the basis of discussion carried out by members of the public, the MPs answered him that freedom of speech is in force in Finland and that politicians cannot interfere with websites so long as no law is broken.\n\nStorsjö has also been involved in arm wrestling with the authorities and the Russian ambassador in Sweden. However, both a court of law and the Chancellor of Justice have ruled that the contents of the website are legal and that there are no grounds on which it should be closed down.\n\nThe great amount of publicity that kavkazcenter.com got in Finland and the significance of these developments have to do with the principle of freedom of speech and questions relating to it, and thus the case was widely commented upon in the editorials of Finnish newspapers and elsewhere in the media. This discussion has helped to draw the line at which the authority of courts of law and the police ends in matters relating to freedom of speech.\n\nStorsjö said in May 2005 an interview with Turun Sanomat that he is collecting money through donations that anyone can make to an association called “Support for information service on the Caucasus”, from which moneys are directed to the support of Kavkaz Center. He did, however, admit that the moneys end up with Chechen rebels, among whom there are “elements that have tendencies towards terrorism.” The matter was first made public by Aamulehti, and Storsjö said that this was a false report, since no association called “Support for information service on the Caucasus” ever has existed. It is not possible to find out anything about this alleged association with the Google search engine, and no such association exists in the Finnish Register for Associations.\n\nUkrainian authorities apprehended Storsjö in Odessa on May 26, 2008, because he was on the list of \"personae non gratae\" in the Russian Federation. Storsjö was released from jail on May 28, 2007, and the Ukrainian authorities had cause to review their practises concerning lists of \"personae non gratae\".\n\nIn early June 2009, Storsjö declared that he had arranged the entry into Finland of around 50 Chechens who had been living in exile in Turkey. He said the Finnish Border Guard suspected him of arranging a gross illegal entry to Finland in April 2009.\n\nIn a court case that began on March 24, 2011, in the Vantaa Local Court, the prosecutor Mikko Sipila accused Storsjö altogether of three cases of arranging an illegal entry, of which one he considered to be a gross one. He demanded that Storsjö be given a jail sentence. The alleged crimes had taken place from 2007 to 2010. According to the prosecution, Storsjö had brought 22 Chechens from Turkey to Finland on three separate occasions, and 9 of these people had been minors. None of these people had carried travel documents that would have entitled them to enter Finland. The prosecution also deemed that even though Storsjö had not benefited from this activity financially, he had reaped benefits in other ways, such as gaining a reputation and the respect of certain circles.”\n\nStorsjö denied having benefited from gains in reputation. He had publicly disclosed his activities only after the Border Guard had released statements to the effect that they suspected him of committing crimes. In fact he had only had losses from his activism, since he had paid the air fares of the Chechens from Istanbul via Helsinki to St. Petersburg from his own and his company’s funds. Storsjö denied having broken Finnish law. According to him the criminal law allows the arrangement of entry to foreigners when there are acceptable grounds for such action. “I have decided to help these people, and I have done so fully conscious of the risks on my part.”\n\nThe court case concluded on May 9, 2011. Storsjö was acquitted of all charges. The court held that his activity had not been of criminal kind, but that there had been acceptable grounds for it. The judge referred to the same section of the law that Storsjö had cited in court. The judge considered that Storsjö’s grounds for his activity were credible: this was a case of humanitarian activity based on empathy. The judge considered that the Chechens really were in need of protection, since nearly all of them had already been awarded asylum in Finland. The judge also considered that Storsjö had not benefited personally from his activism; on the contrary, he had received various threats because of it.\n\nThe prosecutor had stated that he shall appeal the decision and the case may yet continue in the Hovrätt, that is, The Court of Appeals. In June 2012, it reversed the lower court's decision and handed down a four-month suspended sentence, ruling that the Chechens were not in danger. Storsjö plans to appeal to the Supreme Court of Finland.\n\nStorsjö was a candidate for the Green League of Finland in Helsinki in the 2008 Finnish municipal elections. He received 106 votes and was not elected.\n\n"}
{"id": "31120138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31120138", "title": "Outsource marketing", "text": "Outsource marketing\n\nOutsourcing has been a growing area for business. It is primarily associated with 'support functions' such as IT, HR or accounting. Marketing outsourcing, whilst common in the US, has not yet been embraced by British industry, but the economic downturn means that many businesses may well look to this form of cost reduction. Increased interest in an Outsourced Marketing Department subscription is also being driven by the rapid and continuous expansion of tactics requiring specialized expertise. This includes specialties such as video production, online marketing, online search optimization, custom programming and integration of online marketing platforms with company functions such as sales, recruitment and finance.\n\nOutsource marketing is the art of handing over the entire marketing demands of a company to a third party. This offers several distinct benefits:\n\nFirstly companies can access higher quality talent that they might ordinarily be able to attract into an in-house department.\n\nSecondly, outsourcing negates the need for an in-house team, thus reducing overhead – clients can literally operate with a bare bones marketing team, or even none at all. Some firms are marketing savings of 20% versus in-house hiring.\n\nThirdly, outsourcing reduces or eliminates the need for multiple, biased specialist agencies – all the marketing requirements are catered for by one centralised agency offering media-neutral and discipline-neutral marketing.\n\nLastly, this enables companies to move fast, with access to the exact resources they need to complete the ever-changing requirements to stay ahead in dynamic markets. Outsourcing gives immediate access, eliminating the delays of locating, vetting, negotiating and engaging with new resources/vendors.\n\nNot all business owners choose to outsource due to a hectic overload of work at the office. Staff augmentation is utilised when a company decides to outsource tasks to a more skilled candidate while enjoying the flexibility of paying on an as-needed basis.\n\nProject-based outsourcing is applicable to companies that only have irregular tasks needing completion or a project needed as a one-time event. Companies elect to outsource projects in this manner so they are able to continue their focus on their own business operations with little or no interruption.\n\nContracting is a similar process to that of staff augmentation. The labour involved is arranged on an hourly, daily, weekly or monthly schedule allowance. The contracting approach involves the transfer process of a service to the selected outsourcing partner. The out-tasking arrangement is most suitable for business owners that wish to keep control over the entire process.\n\nThe managed services option enables the management of company operations by a third party participant on behalf of the company itself. The managed service provider takes control of all operations and projects and assumes ongoing responsibility within the company. Some providers offer this as a subscription service, setting a flat monthly fee and shifting priorities to keep the workload within the agreed upon range of resource hours.\n\nIn this outsourcing method, as the name suggests, companies seek contractors from offshore locations to complete projects for them. An example of this method is Australian companies offshoring their call centre operators to workers in the Philippines. This option allows for reduced expenditure while maintaining efficiency and control over the entire procedure.\n\nBusinesses and brands can achieve all of these benefits with the added bonus of flexibility (up-weighting or downscaling the requirements at any point), which suits the uncertainty of the economic environment.\n\nMarketing outsourcing should not be confused with sales outsourcing or working with a contract sales organization.\n\nThe challenging economic backdrop has meant that major corporations have begun outsourcing significant parts of their marketing. For instance, the Guardian newspaper outsourced most of their marketing design in May 2010.\n"}
{"id": "5340486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5340486", "title": "Roberto Romero", "text": "Roberto Romero\n\nRoberto Romero (October 22, 1927 - February 15, 1992) was an Argentine Justicialist Party politician and businessman. \n\nRomero was a founder of the provincial \"El Tribuno\" newspaper. He was elected as Governor of Salta Province, serving from 1983-1987, and completing numerous public works aimed at the province's growing tourist industry - notably the DELMI Stadium and the San Bernardo Hill Aerial tramway. He then stepped down to become a national deputy in the Argentine Chamber of Deputies for Salta Province. He stood for governor once again in 1991, but lost and retired that year from public life. \n\nIn February 1992, whilst on holiday with his family in Brazil, Romero was killed in an automobile accident. His son, Juan Carlos Romero, later also served as Governor of Salta.\n\nIn 2006 it came to light that the Drug Enforcement Administration of the United States had considered Romero the likely head of a major drug cartel. \n\n"}
{"id": "544429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=544429", "title": "Roy Thomson, 1st Baron Thomson of Fleet", "text": "Roy Thomson, 1st Baron Thomson of Fleet\n\nRoy Herbert Thomson, 1st Baron Thomson of Fleet, GBE (June 5, 1894 – August 4, 1976) was a Canadian newspaper proprietor who became one of the moguls of Fleet Street.\n\nHe first came to prominence when he was selling radios in Ontario, and to give his customers more programmes to listen to, decided to launch his own radio station. He then moved into newspapers, buying \"The Scotsman\" as a salute to his Scottish ancestors, followed by the first Scottish independent television channel. By 1966, he owned both \"The Times\" and \"The Sunday Times\".\n\nOn June 5, 1894, Thomson was born as Roy Herbert Thomson in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Thomson's father was Herbert Thomson, a telegraphist turned barber who worked at Toronto's Grosvenor Hotel (at Yonge and Alexander - now site of Courtyard Marriott), and English-born Alice Maud. Thomson's family lived at 32 Monteith Street, off Church Street in Toronto, Ontario. \nThomson's paternal grand-parents were Hugh Thomson and Mary Nichol Sylvester. Thomson's grand-father Hugh was one of ten children of George Thomson, son of Archibald Thomson, who emigrated from Westerkirk, Scotland to Canada in 1773. Archibald was brother of David Thomson, first European settler of Scarborough, Ontario.\n\nThomson’s ancestors were small tenant farmers on the estates of the Dukes of Buccleuch at Bo'ness, in the parish of Westerkirk, Dumfriesshire, Scotland. Thomson's ancestor, Archibald Thomson (born May 1749), migrated to British North America in 1773, marrying Elizabeth McKay, of Quebec. The family eventually settled in Upper Canada, but retained a sentimental attachment to their country of origin.\n\nDuring World War I, Roy Thomson attended a business college, and owing to bad eyesight he was rejected by the army. He went to Manitoba after the war to become a farmer, but was unsuccessful. Thomson travelled to Toronto again, where he held several jobs at different times; one of which was selling radios. However, he found selling radios difficult because the only district left for him to work in was Northern Ontario. In order to give his potential customers something to listen to he undertook to establish a radio station. By quite a stroke of luck, he was able to procure a radio frequency and transmitter for $201. CFCH officially went on the air in North Bay, Ontario on March 3, 1931. He sold radios for quite some time after that, but his focus gradually shifted to his radio station, rather than the actual radios.\n\nIn 1934, Thomson acquired his first newspaper. With a down payment of $200 he purchased the \"Timmins Daily Press\", in Timmins, Ontario. He began an expansion of both radio stations and newspapers in various Ontario locations in partnership with fellow Canadian, Jack Kent Cooke. In addition to his media acquisitions, by 1949 Thomson was the owner of a diverse group of companies, including several ladies' hairstyling businesses, a fitted kitchen manufacturer, and an ice-cream cone manufacturing operation. By the early 1950s, he owned 19 newspapers and was president of the Canadian Daily Newspaper Publishers Association, and then began his first foray into the British newspaper business by starting up the \"Canadian Weekly Review\" to cater to expatriate Canadians living in Britain.\n\nIn 1952, Thomson move to Edinburgh and purchased \"The Scotsman\" newspaper. In 1957, Thomson launched a successful bid for the commercial television franchise for Central Scotland, named Scottish Television, which he was to describe as a \"permit to print money\" (often misquoted as a \"licence to print money\"). In 1959, Thomson purchased the Kemsley group of newspapers, the largest in Britain, which included \"The Sunday Times\". Over the years, Thomson expanded his media empire to include more than 200 newspapers in Canada, the United States, and the United Kingdom. His Thomson Organization became a multinational corporation, with interests in publishing, printing, television, and travel. In 1966, Thomson bought \"The Times\" newspaper from members of the Astor family.\n\nIn the 1970s, Thomson joined with J. Paul Getty in a consortium that successfully explored for oil in the North Sea.\n\nA modest man, who had little time for pretentious displays of wealth, in Britain he got by virtually unnoticed, riding the London Underground to his office each day. Nonetheless, he made his son Kenneth promise to use the hereditary title that he had received in 1964, if only in the London offices of the firm.\n\nOn 29 Jul 1916, Thomson married Edna Annis Irvine (1895-1951) in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Edna A. Irvine was the daughter of John Irvine and Rebecca Caldwell. . \nThomson had three children: Kenneth Roy Thomson (b. 1 Sep 1923), Irma Jacqueline Thomson (b. 20 Oct 1918) and Phyllis Audrey Thomson (b. 6 Jul 1917). \n\nOn 22 Feb 1951 Thomson's wife Edna died in Ft Lauderdale, Florida. \nIn 1952, Thomson move to Edinburgh.\nIn 1976, Thomson died in London, England. A plaque was placed in the crypt of St Paul's Cathedral.\n\nAfter Thomson's death in 1976, his son Kenneth Thomson became chair of Thomson Corporation and inherited the baronial title becoming the 2nd Baron Thomson of Fleet. With the Thomson operations now principally again in Canada, the younger Thomson did not use his title in Canada though he did so in Britain, and used two sets of stationery reflecting this dichotomy. In any case, as the peerage title he had was inherited, it did not debar him from retaining his Canadian citizenship, and he never took up his right to a seat in the pre-1999 House of Lords.\n\nRoy Thomson Hall, one of Toronto's main concert halls, is named in his honour as the Thomson family donated $5.4 million to its construction.\n\nIn the 1964 New Year Honours, it was announced that Thomson would be elevated to the peerage as a Baron \"for public services\". On 10 March 1964, he was made Baron Thomson of Fleet, of Northbridge in the City of Edinburgh. In order to receive this title, it was necessary for Thomson to acquire British citizenship, as the Canadian government had made it common practice since 1919 to disallow the conference of titular honours from the sovereign on Canadians. However, the Canadian \"Citizenship Act\" between 1947 and 1977 stated that any Canadian who became a citizen of another country through means other than marriage would cease to be a Canadian citizen. Thus, Thomson lost his Canadian citizenship in the process.\n\nHe was appointed Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire (GBE) in the 1970 New Year Honours.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "22205643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22205643", "title": "Rupert Sanderson", "text": "Rupert Sanderson\n\nRupert Sanderson (born in 1966 in Penang, Malaysia) is a British shoe designer. \n\nAfter graduating from Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, London University, Sanderson worked in advertising in London before enrolling on the shoe making course at Cordwainers College in East London. Sanderson then worked in Italy first for Sergio Rossi, and later Bruno Magli.\n\nRupert Sanderson produced his first shoe collection in 2001. By way of reinforcing his design principles, in 2006 Sanderson bought a controlling interest in the shoe factory in the outskirts of Bologna, Italy, that he had been working with from his first collection. \nTogether with Bertrand Mak, Sanderson co-founded R. SANDERSON, the ultra luxury house of his own label distinguished by the signature 24-carat gold leaf heels and accessories.\n\n\n\nRupert Sanderson has a store in London and opened stores in Hong Kong and Paris. The store in London is in Mayfair; and in Paris at the Palais-Royal.\nRupert Sanderson shoes are also available in over 160 department and specialist stores in fashion capitals around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "27135498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27135498", "title": "Small Business Lending Index", "text": "Small Business Lending Index\n\nThe Thomson Reuters/PayNet Small Business Lending Index (SBLI) is an economic indicator from Thomson Reuters Indices and PayNet Inc. Because small businesses generally respond to changes in economic conditions more rapidly than larger businesses do, the Thomson Reuters/PayNet Small Business Lending Index serves as a leading indicator of the economy.\n\nThe index, utilizing small business loan origination data from major lenders, measures the volume of loans to Small Businesses normalized to a base year - 2005. Seasonally adjusted, the index is presented as an absolute as well as by a percent change versus the prior year. \nIt is published monthly as follows:\n\nThe index has its highest correlation with GDP change as a leading indicator, leading between 2 and 5 months in advance. The index undergoes periodic checks to examine the accuracy of the estimates over time.\n\nAll data is collected by PayNet, Inc. PayNet collects real-time loan information from more than 350 leading U.S. lenders. Its proprietary database encompasses over 19 million current and historic contracts worth over $1.5 trillion. \n\nPayNet primarily collects data from small business lenders in the United States, conducts research and analysis, develops and implements estimation methodologies and disseminates statistics to customers. Because PayNet receives its source data over time, estimates are routinely revised to reflect more complete source data. Preliminary and Revised estimates are reported as calculated without any reference to previously reported estimates for the same month. In addition, PayNet undertakes periodic studies that examine the accuracy of the estimates over time and for the existence of any systemic overstatement or understatement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44519131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44519131", "title": "Steve Jobs (film)", "text": "Steve Jobs (film)\n\nSteve Jobs is a 2015 biographical drama film directed by Danny Boyle and written by Aaron Sorkin. Adapted from the 2011 book of the same name by Walter Isaacson as well as interviews conducted by Sorkin, the film is structured into three acts which cover 14 years (1984–1998) in the life of personal computing innovator and Apple Inc. co-founder Steve Jobs, with each act taking place immediately prior to the launch of a key product – the Apple Macintosh, the NeXT Computer and the iMac. Jobs is portrayed by Michael Fassbender, with Kate Winslet, Seth Rogen, Katherine Waterston, Michael Stuhlbarg, and Jeff Daniels in supporting roles.\n\nDevelopment on the project began in 2011 after the rights to Isaacson's book were acquired. Sorkin wrote the screenplay and filming began in January 2015. A variety of actors were considered and cast before Fassbender eventually took the role. Editing was extensive on the project, with editor Elliot Graham noting that he was working on existing footage while the film was still shooting. Daniel Pemberton served as the film's composer, with a focus dedicated to dividing the score into three distinguishable sections.\n\n\"Steve Jobs\" premiered at the 2015 Telluride Film Festival on September 5, 2015, and began a limited release in New York City and Los Angeles on October 9, 2015. It opened nationwide in the U.S. on October 23, 2015, to critical acclaim. Individuals close to Jobs such as Steve Wozniak and John Sculley would praise the film's performances, but the film also received criticisms for its inaccuracy in some of its scenes. Winslet won a Golden Globe and a BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actress and Sorkin won the Golden Globe Award for Best Screenplay at the 73rd Golden Globes, while Fassbender and Winslet received nominations for Best Actor and Best Supporting Actress, respectively, at the 88th Academy Awards.\n\nIn 1984, the Apple Macintosh 128K's voice demo fails less than an hour before its unveiling at Flint Center. Apple co-founder Steve Jobs demands engineer Andy Hertzfeld fix it, threatening to publicly implicate him in the presentation's credits if he does not. Hertzfeld finally suggests faking the demo using the prototype Macintosh 512K computer.\n\nJobs rants to marketing executive Joanna Hoffman about a \"Time\" magazine article exposing his paternity dispute with ex-girlfriend Chrisann Brennan – he denies he is the father of Brennan's five-year-old daughter, Lisa. Brennan arrives with Lisa to confront him – she is bitter over his denials and his refusal to support her despite his wealth. Jobs bonds with Lisa over her MacPaint art and agrees to provide more money and a house. Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak asks Jobs to acknowledge the Apple II team in his presentation, but Jobs feels that mentioning the computer (which he considers obsolete) is unwise.\n\nBy 1988, following the apparent failure of the Macintosh, Jobs has founded a new company, NeXT. Before the NeXT Computer launch at the War Memorial Opera House, he spends time with 9-year-old Lisa, but his relationship with Brennan is still strained – he accuses her of irresponsible behavior and of using Lisa to get money from him. Wozniak arrives and predicts the NeXT will be another failure. Jobs confronts him about his public criticism of him, and Wozniak questions Jobs' contributions to computing history. Jobs defends his role as that of a conductor, who directs \"musicians\" like Wozniak.\n\nApple CEO John Sculley demands to know why the world believes he fired Jobs – Jobs was actually forced out by the Apple board, who were resolute on updating the Apple II following the Macintosh's lackluster sales. Jobs lambasted the decision and dared them to cast a final vote on his tenure, despite Sculley's warnings. After Hoffman and Jobs discuss NeXT's unclear direction, she realizes that Jobs has designed the computer to entice Apple to buy the company and reinstate him.\n\nBy 1998, Apple has fired Sculley, purchased NeXT, and named Jobs CEO, and Jobs is about to unveil the iMac at Davies Symphony Hall. He is delighted by Hoffman's strong commercial forecasts, but furious that Lisa has allowed her mother to sell the house Jobs bought for them. Hoffman reminds Jobs that he threatened to withhold Lisa's college tuition – Hertzfeld admits that he paid Lisa's tuition and suggested she attend therapy. Wozniak again asks that Jobs credit the Apple II team during the presentation, and again he refuses.\n\nSculley arrives in secret and the two make amends. Jobs and Sculley discuss Jobs' life as an adopted child, and Jobs admits that his need for control stems from his feelings of powerlessness in being given up. At the behest of Hoffman, Jobs apologizes to Lisa for his mistakes and accepts that he is her father, admitting that he is \"poorly made\". Lisa watches her father take the stage to introduce the iMac.\n\n\nSony Pictures acquired the rights to Isaacson's book in October 2011, hiring Aaron Sorkin to adapt it. In November 2011, George Clooney and Noah Wyle (who previously portrayed Jobs in the 1999 TV film \"Pirates of Silicon Valley\") were rumored to be considered for the title role. In May 2012, Sorkin officially confirmed that he was writing the script, and had enlisted the help of Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple, for historical accuracy. Sorkin later stated that his screenplay would consist of three 30-minute-long scenes covering 16 years of Jobs' life.\n\nSorkin developed the screenplay around Jobs' relationship with a few key people: Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak, Jobs' \"right-hand-woman\" Joanna Hoffman, former Apple CEO John Sculley, original Mac team developer Andy Hertzfeld, and Jobs' first child, Lisa Brennan-Jobs, as well as her mother Chrisann Brennan. Sorkin had a chance to speak with all of them while developing the screenplay, including Lisa (who did not communicate with Isaacson while he was developing his book). However, Sorkin has stated that much of the dialogue is fiction.\n\nAfter Sorkin's completion of the script in January 2014, development on the project began to heat up when David Fincher entered negotiations to direct the film, with Fincher selecting Christian Bale as his choice for Jobs. However, in April 2014, Fincher exited the project due to contractual disputes. Danny Boyle was then hired to direct, with Leonardo DiCaprio in discussions for the role. In October, DiCaprio exited, with Bale, Matt Damon, Ben Affleck and Bradley Cooper being considered. Sorkin revealed in an interview that month that Bale was once again cast in the role, with Seth Rogen entering negotiations to play Wozniak, and Jessica Chastain being considered for a part. Ike Barinholtz revealed he had auditioned for the role of Wozniak. In November, Bale again left the project, with Michael Fassbender emerging as a frontrunner to replace him, and Scarlett Johansson reportedly being offered a role before Sony put the project in turnaround and Universal Pictures acquired it.\n\nFollowing the Sony Pictures Entertainment hack in December 2014, Sony emails were leaked which revealed casting demands as cause of delay in the film's production. Also revealed in the emails were the details that Tom Cruise, Matthew McConaughey and Charlize Theron were at one point met with to discuss potential roles in the film.\n\nNatalie Portman entered into negotiations for a role in November 2014, but withdrew from the film in December. Meanwhile, Jeff Daniels began negotiations for a role and Michael Stuhlbarg joined the cast as Andy Hertzfeld. In December, Kate Winslet entered negotiations to star in the film, with Fassbender and Rogen confirmed to star, and Katherine Waterston was cast as Chrisann Brennan. Winslet's participation in the film, playing Joanna Hoffman, was confirmed in January 2015. Daniels was also cast as John Sculley, and Perla Haney-Jardine was cast as Lisa Brennan-Jobs. In February 2015, John Ortiz joined the film to play \"GQ\" magazine journalist Joel Pforzheimer.\n\nPrincipal photography began on January 16, 2015, at Jobs's childhood home in Los Altos, California, with additional scenes shot throughout the San Francisco Bay Area. Production next moved to Berkeley on January 23–24, 2015 (at \"La Méditerranée,\" a restaurant on College Avenue in the Elmwood district).\n\nOn January 29, 2015, filming continued at Flint Center, De Anza college (the location of the original unveiling of the Macintosh in 1984). In late February, production moved to San Francisco and took place at the Opera House, Louise M. Davies Symphony Hall, and the Civic Center. Filming wrapped on April 10, 2015, after an overnight shoot in the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\nTo distinguish each of the three product launches depicted in the movie, Danny Boyle and cinematographer Alwin Küchler implemented three different film formats: 16mm for 1984, 35mm for 1988, and digital for 1998. They also wanted each of the film's three time periods to visually reflect Jobs' own development at the time. For instance, Küchler explains that the filming at Flint Center, De Anza college for the first act combined the graininess of 16 mm film and setting to accentuate a provisional, spontaneous look – much in the vein of how Jobs is portrayed at that time. The third act, shot with an Arri Alexa at the Davies Symphony Hall, incorporated an aesthetic and color palette that were intended to be representative of Jobs' own design philosophies of the iMac and subsequent Apple hardware. Küchler describes his experience filming \"Steve Jobs\" as \"brilliant and challenging at the same time\", and that the goal was to \"make sure that the visuals kept up with the words\", in reference to the production's collaboration between Boyle and Sorkin.\n\nCostume designer Suttirat Anne Larlarb says the real Jobs never wore his trademark turtleneck jumper at any of the launches: \"The turtleneck was the off book decision. In those 3 actual launches, in real life, he never wore that. In the 1998 portion of the film, in real life he was wearing a dark greyish/brownish suit. We made it for him as a back up idea in case we needed to adhere to it. As we got closer to the time of filming, I thought we'd set up rules for 1984, we'd set up rules for 1988 – there's so much of the film that's about design and he was about design.\" Fassbender also remarked that the historically inaccurate black turtleneck for the third act was intentional, believing that wearing the attire \"felt like I had arrived at [Steve Jobs'] vision, that the person had arrived.\" Fassbender later added that he and Danny Boyle decided on this look during filming, and wanted to \"give the audience kind of a payoff.\"\n\nLondon-based studio Union created the film's visual effects. According to editor Elliot Graham, extensive film editing took place even before principal photography was completed. During the one-week rehearsal that took place in between production for each of the three acts (shot in chronological order), Graham would work on the existing footage and receive ongoing feedback from Boyle in the editing room. In an interview with \"Variety\", Graham said a particular challenge for him was balancing the shot frequency and providing enough \"visual interventions\" to control for Sorkin's dialogue-heavy screenplay. He described approaching each scene as \"a series of fight sequences\". Michael Fassbender provided multiple versions of his performance as Jobs, which Graham and Boyle would then choose from during post-production. Graham also said: \"Danny would be involved a lot but also take time away. He would say 'if I'm with you the whole time, we'll always have the same opinions because we're on the exact same journey.'\"\n\nDaniel Pemberton composed the music for the film. Much like the film's visual approach, the score is divided into three distinguishable sections, each corresponding to the intended feel of the act in which the section is heard. \"You have the first act which is analog,\" Pemberton explains, \"you have the second act which is orchestral, and you have the third act which is digital.\" For the first act's composition, Pemberton primarily used analog synthesizers, in particular ones released no later than 1984 – the time the first act takes place – such as the Roland SH-1000 and Yamaha CS-80. The second act's score is more operatic in nature, matching the setting of the San Francisco Opera House. Finally, the third act featured a more introspective score produced entirely digitally to complement its backdrop of the 1998 iMac product launch, and Pemberton correspondingly used his own iMac to compose this section.\n\nThe soundtrack also features songs by The Libertines, Bob Dylan and The Maccabees. The Maccabees' \"Grew Up At Midnight\", the song that played during the film's concluding scene, was reportedly chosen by Danny Boyle himself, who is a fan of the band. Other songs were considered for the final scene, even Pemberton's own score before the song was chosen. The soundtrack was released digitally on October 9, 2015 and in physical format on October 23, 2015.\n\n\"Steve Jobs\" premiered at the 2015 Telluride Film Festival on September 5, 2015, and began a limited release in New York City and Los Angeles on October 9, 2015. It opened nationwide in the U.S. on October 23, 2015. The movie also served as the closing film for the 2015 BFI London Film Festival, approximately one month before its release in the UK on November 13, 2015.\n\n\"Steve Jobs\" was released digitally on February 2, 2016 and was released on Blu-ray and DVD on February 16, 2016, and includes feature commentary from Boyle, Sorkin, and Elliot Graham. The physical releases contain a 44-minute making-of documentary, \"Inside Jobs: The Making of Steve Jobs\", chronicling the production of the film.\n\n\"Steve Jobs\" grossed $17.8 million in North America and $16.7 million in other territories for a worldwide total of $34.4 million, against a budget of $30 million.\n\nIn its opening weekend in limited release, the film grossed $521,000 from four theaters, for a per theater average of $130,250, beating out \"Sicario\" ($67,000) for the best average theater gross of 2015. The film began its wide release on October 23, 2015, alongside \"The Last Witch Hunter\", \"\", \"Rock the Kasbah\", and \"Jem and the Holograms\". In its opening weekend, the film was originally projected to gross $11–12 million from 2,491 theaters; however, after grossing just $2.5 million on its first day, it was revised to $7.4 million. It ended up grossing $7.1 million, finishing seventh at the box office.\n\nOn November 10, 2015, just over two weeks after its wide release, Universal pulled the film from 2,072 theaters in the United States. \"Variety\" said the film suffered from fierce competition at the box office, possible public weariness with Jobs and the low profile of Fassbender in the title role, and that the underperformance at the box office could hurt the film's award chances. After his film was pulled from wide release in the U.S., Danny Boyle expressed disappointment at the box office performance of \"Steve Jobs\", while suggesting that Universal expanded the film's release \"too wide too soon\" and that the studio's move was \"arrogant\".\n\nOn the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 86%, based on 282 reviews, with an average rating of 7.6/10. The website's critical consensus reads: \"Like the tech giant co-founded by its subject, \"Steve Jobs\" gathers brilliant people to deliver a product whose elegance belies the intricate complexities at its core.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 82 out of 100, based on 45 reviews, indicating \"universal acclaim.\" According to CinemaScore, audiences gave the film an average grade of \"A-\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nTodd McCarthy of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" said Boyle's \"electric\" direction \"temperamentally complements Sorkin's highly theatrical three-act study\" and praised Fassbender in the role, who \"doesn't closely physically resemble the man, [yet] he fully delivers the essentials of how we have come to perceive the man.\" Justin Chang of \"Variety\" extolled the film as \"a wildly creative fantasia...a brilliant, maddening, ingeniously designed and monstrously self-aggrandizing movie.\" Sasha Stone, writing for \"TheWrap\", stated that Fassbender gives \"a stunning knockout\" performance as Jobs in a film that is \"a kind of talk opera\", which to some might seem to be \"Sorkin overkill but the same could be said for the best of them: David Mamet, Edward Albee, Paddy Chayefsky and even William Shakespeare. Sorkin is not trying to do anything but write in his own style, thus this film and its exceptional dialogue leaves its mark as profoundly as Jobs himself left his.\" Eric Kohn of IndieWire gave the film a \"B+\", stating that \"the cast vanishes into their parts...buried under makeup and a distinctive Polish accent, Winslet's chameleonesque transformation is bested only by Fassbender, whose vivid expressions and constant movement turn him into a physical marvel.\" He also noted that Boyle \"drops his usual whirlwind editing style and instead develops an engrossing chamber piece.\"\n\nBenjamin Lee of \"The Guardian\" gave the film three out of five stars, writing that \"despite the film constantly informing you of just how incredibly important everything all is, it's disappointingly difficult to truly care about what's taking place.\" He blames Sorkin's \"dominating\" script, arguing that \"the dialogue stifles\" and that \"the actors are tasked with trying to wrangle enough breathing space to offer up something of their own.\" He also feels that while it is \"Boyle's best film for years,\" his direction \"plays second fiddle\" to a script that verges on a kind of \"Apple-sponsored hero iWorship.\" Joe Nocera of \"The New York Times\", who knew Jobs well, took issue with \"how little the film has to do with the flesh and blood Steve Jobs.\" Characterizing the movie as pure \"fiction\", he went on to say, \"In ways both large and small, Sorkin − as well as Michael Fassbender, the actor who plays Jobs − has failed to capture him in any meaningful sense.\"\n\nDanny Boyle, the film's director, speaking on the creative liberties he took with portraying Steve Jobs said, \"[it] was what Shakespeare used to do. He would take some of the facts about a man of power and he would guess at a lot of the rest and just gotten away at actually getting at the human in it. And that's what's wonderful about the writing I think, is that it acknowledges the people who disliked Steve Jobs, the people he hurt. But in the end, he brings it back to a very simple father-daughter relationship that he has to admit that he has made some of the most beautiful things in the world.\"\n\nJohn Sculley praised Jeff Daniels' portrayal of him, but claims the film misrepresented Apple's success with the Mac, and argues that Jobs was \"much nicer\" than depicted. Bill Atkinson denounced the film as \"not truthful at all. That wasn't his character, and the events didn't happen. You think of Jobs having a reality distortion field. I think of Aaron Sorkin as having ... a history distortion field\". Atkinson said that \"the only thing he got right in that movie\" was the \"spot on\" depiction of Hoffman, including her accent and how she \"tried to rein in Steve from ... making an ass of himself\".\n\nSteve Wozniak (who consulted with Sorkin before he had written the screenplay) commented on a trailer released on July 1, 2015 that he does not \"talk that way... I would never accuse the graphical interface of being stolen. I never made comments to the effect that I had credit (genius) taken from me... The lines I heard spoken were not things I would say but carried the right message, at least partly... I felt a lot of the real Jobs in the trailer, although a bit exaggerated.\" Wozniak did not ask to see the final script because he did not \"think that would be appropriate... it is the creative work of the producer and writer and actors and director and others.\" He also noted that the trailer's reference to Jobs' initial rejection of his daughter Lisa evoked an emotional response: \"It was hard on me, even being quiet, when Jobs refused to acknowledge his child when the money didn't matter, and I can almost cry remembering it.\" In September 2015, after seeing a rough cut of the film, Wozniak stated that he felt like he \"was actually watching Steve Jobs and the others [...] not actors playing them, I give full credit to Danny Boyle and Aaron Sorkin for getting it so right.\" In an interview with \"San Francisco Chronicle\" on February 10, 2016, Wozniak claimed that the film's scenes between him and Jobs never occurred in reality. Wozniak specifically mentioned that he never requested Jobs to acknowledge the Apple II team onstage, as was shown in the movie. However, he added that Jobs did purportedly show a lack of respect towards the group. When asked about the accuracy of the film's portrayal of Jobs, Wozniak replied: \"In real life, to real people, that's the way he could be, very sharp, (although) never quite as much as in the movie.\"\n\nEdwin Catmull, president of Pixar Animation Studios and Walt Disney Animation Studios, felt that Jobs would \"be appalled\" at his depiction in the film, arguing that he was a kinder person later in life than is portrayed in the picture. In an interview with \"The Hollywood Reporter\", Catmull commented, \"When [Jobs] left Apple, he then entered into what really is the classic hero's journey: He's wandering in the wilderness, he's working with NeXT, it's not working. He's working with Pixar, we're failing. In that process, Steve learned some major lessons, and he changed. He became an empathetic person, [...] that aspect of the change of Steve was missed.\"\n\nIn a \"Bloomberg West\" interview with Emily Chang on August 26, 2015, Andy Cunningham called it \"a wonderful film... It's an incredible character study of a really complex man. Aaron [Sorkin] and Danny Boyle did a fabulous job with it.\" Her portrayal by Sarah Snook was a \"small role but professionally done.\" The film also portrays Andy as participating in the iMac launch, even though she was not working with Apple at that time. Journalist Walt Mossberg compared \"Steve Jobs\" to the Orson Welles film \"Citizen Kane\", which was loosely based on the life of William Randolph Hearst. Mossberg has stated that while both films are aesthetically well-developed, Welles created a fictional set of characters in order to clarify that his film was a work of fiction. In contrast, according to Mossberg (who knew Jobs for 14 years), Sorkin's decision to use real instead of fictional names detracts from the quality of a film which appears to be a biopic and yet is a work of fiction. Mossberg states that \"the Steve Jobs portrayed in Sorkin's film isn't the man I knew. Sorkin chose to cherry-pick and exaggerate some of the worst aspects of Jobs' character, and to focus on a period of his career when he was young and immature [...] It would be as if you made a movie called \"JFK\" almost entirely focused on Kennedy's womanizing and political rivalries, and said nothing about civil rights and the Cuban Missile Crisis. Sorkin opts to end his story just as Jobs is poised to both reel off an unprecedented string of world-changing products and to mature into a much broader, kinder manager and person.\"\n\n\"Steve Jobs\" has received dozens of industry and critics awards. The film garnered four Golden Globe Award nominations for Best Actor for Fassbender, Best Supporting Actress for Winslet, Best Screenplay for Sorkin, and Best Original Score for Pemberton. It won two, for both Winslet and Sorkin. On February 14, 2016, Winslet won the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role. Both Fassbender and Winslet received Academy Award nominations for Best Actor and Best Supporting Actress.\n\n"}
{"id": "39308284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39308284", "title": "Storm Song", "text": "Storm Song\n\nStorm Song (foaled February 28, 1994 in Kentucky) is a retired American thoroughbred racemare.\n\nStorm Song was a bay filly bred by the partnership of William S. Farish III and Dinny Phipps.\n\nDuring her racing career, Storm Song was owned by Dogwood Stable and trained by Nick Zito. She won the 1996 Breeders' Cup Juvenile Fillies and was voted the Eclipse Award as American Champion Two-Year-Old Filly. During her racing career, Storm Song won four of her twelve starts and earned $1,020,050.\n\nStorm Song's daughter Another Storm is the dam of the Irish St Leger winner Order of St George.\n"}
{"id": "21024824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21024824", "title": "The Boston Foundation", "text": "The Boston Foundation\n\nThe Boston Foundation, founded in 1915, is one of the oldest and largest community foundations in the United States. Serving the Greater Boston area, it is made up of some 1,000 separate charitable funds established by thousands of donors over more than 100 years. Funds are established either for the general benefit of the community or for special purposes, such as supporting individual nonprofit organizations in perpetuity. With some $1 billion in assets, today the Foundation is one of the largest funders in New England. The Foundation and its donors make more than $100 million in grants every year. Since 2001, the Boston Foundation has also served as a major civic leader by commissioning and publishing research, providing a platform for discussion related to a wide range of challenges facing Greater Boston and the region and contributing to the development of public policy. \n\nThe Boston Foundation was founded in 1915 by Charles E. and Charles M. Rogerson, who were father and son. Originally called the Permanent Charity Fund, it was one of the first community foundations in the United States, but, thanks to a bequest of $4 million shortly after it was launched, it was the first with the resources to begin grant making. In 1959 another large bequest of $20 million catapulted the Foundation into an era during which it made early investments in some of the most important nonprofit institutions in Boston, from WGBH to the New England Aquarium to the clean up of Boston Harbor. 1985, the foundation was renamed the Boston Foundation, and Anna Faith Jones became the President—the first African-American woman to lead a major foundation in the United States. Today, it is led by President and CEO, Paul S. Grogan, who is credited with transforming the Foundation into a major civic leader for the city and region.\n\nAs Greater Boston’s community foundation since 1915, the Boston Foundation devotes its resources to building and sustaining a vital, prosperous city and region, where justice and opportunity are extended to everyone. It fulfills this mission in three principal ways: \n\nThe Foundation is overseen by a 20-member Board of Directors, selected to represent diverse community interests. The staff includes professionals in grant making, philanthropy, finance and administration, public policy and communications.\n\nOver more than 100 years of grantmaking, the Foundation has been there at the beginning for numerous fresh ideas and new institutions by providing crucial seed capital and other support. Among its greatest accomplishments are grants that helped to launch WGBH-TV, now considered the nation’s premier public television station. It also made an early investment in the redevelopment of Faneuil Hall into a thriving marketplace, often credited with sparking the renewal of Boston in recent decades; and helped to shape Boston’s Longwood Medical Center area. The Foundation invested in the most extensive network of community health centers in the nation and made grants to a group called Save the Harbor/Save the Bay to clean up Boston Harbor. What was once one of the filthiest harbors in the world is now one of the cleanest. It also made early grants to numerous organizations that started in Boston and spread throughout the country, like City Year, Citizen Schools and Year Up.\n\nToday, the Foundation and its donors make grants each year to hundreds of nonprofits in Greater Boston, across the country and around the world. In addition to placing a special strategic focus on the areas of Education, Health and Wellness, Jobs and Economic Development, Neighborhoods and Housing, and Arts and Culture. It also provides leadership for special initiatives, such as the Success Boston College Completion Initiative and SkillWorks.\n\nThrough its Understanding Boston series, the Boston Foundation commissions research from universities, think tanks and other organizations and shares this information through a series of forums that are attended by thousands of people every year. Issues addressed through Understanding Boston embrace a broad range of issues, including public education, housing, the workforce, health, philanthropy and the nonprofit sector, the arts and the urban environment.\n\nIn addition to providing fresh information and bringing people together to discuss findings, the Foundation also creates Task Forces and Action Agendas to produce positive change. A number of issues have been influenced by this process. The Commonwealth Housing Task Force created a Smart Growth housing effort to address the current shortage of housing in the state. The program has led to dozens of towns and cities building thousands of new units of housing. The Foundation’s civic leadership also helped lead to the Massachusetts Cultural Facilities Fund, which has provided millions in state funding for cultural facilities. Its work examining the current Criminal Offender Record Information (CORI) system has led to a complete re-evaluation of the system by state law makers. The Foundation’s research and public information campaign related to public education has influenced former Governor Deval Patrick's approach to education across the state. Other issues that have benefited from the Foundation’s civic leadership includea new collaborative for the life sciences, issues related to health and health care and the revenue-raising capacity of Massachusetts cities.\n\nBoston Indicators is a research center at the Boston Foundation that seeks a thriving Greater Boston for all residents across all neighborhoods. They do this by analyzing key indicators of well-being and by researching promising ideas for making Boston more prosperous, equitable and just. To ensure that the Indicators work informs active efforts to improve our city, they work in deep partnership with community groups, civic leaders and Boston’s civic data community to produce special reports and host public convenings.\n\n"}
{"id": "17011107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17011107", "title": "The Burke Group", "text": "The Burke Group\n\nThe Burke Group is a U.S.-based international management consulting firm established in 1982 with headquarters in Los Angeles. The Burke Group describes itself as an \"international leader\" in guiding management during union recognition campaigns. It provides commercial services to private and public employers. Services are also offered toward business development and leadership training. Critics of The Burke Group call the firm's practices professional union busting.\n\nThe CEO and President is David J. Burke.\n\nThe Burke Group Labor assists employers in responding to automatic recognition and ballot campaigns. According to its U.S. website, employees considering a trade union:\n\n\"Employees want and deserve to hear both pro employer and pro union arguments in order to make an informed choice before voting in a union election. A union organizer is experienced at running a union membership campaign whereas employers have little if any experience on how to respond to them when this activity presents itself. Once union activity becomes apparent, employers generally seek TBG and/or legal counsel in order to be better able to respond accurately and lawfully to employees.\"\n\nAlthough their business has reportedly been international in scope since its inception, their services increased in the EU \"after the Employee Relations Act 1999 (ERA 1999) was established in June 2000 and triggered new procedures related to trade union recognition and ballot elections\". UK employers may seek the services of labor relations consultants such as The Burke Group and/or legal counsel to assist them thru the new law's complexities regarding automatic recognition or subsequent ballot elections. \"Human Rights Watch does not take the position that employer silence is required under international standards. Rather, non-interference is required by international standards.\" As stated by Dr. John Logan: \"Britain has a “hybrid” system of union recognition: employers can recognize the union without a demonstration of majority support, or, if the employers refuse voluntary recognition, the Central Arbitration Committee can recognize the union on the basis of documentary evidence of union membership or by holding a ballot election.\"\n\nWhen direct communications known as third party persuading are requested, The Burke Group recommends its U.S. clients work with \"Labor Information Services,\", where David J Burke is also CEO. This service provides workers a chance to talk \"directly\" with professional consultants during organizing campaigns which allows questions and answers from sources other than professional union organizers. \"Direct communications with employees during union activity must be conducted in strict accordance with the definitions and guidelines provided within the Landrum-Griffin Act known as the Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act passed by the U.S. Congress in 1959. It requires detailed reporting of all monies paid for third party activities be provided via Form LM10 which is later posted for public record.\"\n\nAccording to their webpage, Labor Information Services is necessary because \"the increase of non English speaking workers throughout U.S. industries has made communications (third party persuading) to a company's workforce a major challenge. The supervisors and managers at most companies are not bi-lingual, they do not know the law (National Labor Relations Act) nor can they be expected to answer employee questions in the short time frame of a union organizing campaign.\" Labor Information Services consultants are fluent in English, Spanish, Tagalog, French, Portuguese, Vietnamese, and a number of varieties of Chinese.\n\nA report released in 2008 called \"US Union Avoidance Consultants: A Threat to the Rights of British Workers\" commissioned by the Trades Union Congress (UK) to coincide with their joint announcement with the AFL-CIO (USA) of their campaign to thwart employer efforts which they claimed to \"demonise trade unions and scare employees from joining up.\" The campaign was designed to demonise companies which employ consultancies during recognition campaigns and ballot elections. The report examined tactics allegedly used by U.S. consultants and law firms, including detailed descriptions of Burke Group and clients in the UK. \n\nIn response, a Burke Group press release noted, the \"report was biased and misleading based on subjective partisan research for which no request has ever been made to TBG nor its clients to review the veracity of the statements/conclusions contained therein before going to print.\"\n\nIn May 2007, the Communication Workers Union in the UK petitioned Cable and Wireless for \"automatic recognition\" of their Field Service team by filing form 1A which defines and describes the potential unit to the Central Arbitration Committee. After review, the Central Arbitration Committee sanctioned the unit. However Cable and Wireless Worldwide decided to challenge the decision due to the relatively small size of the unit and concerns about potential fragmentation.\n\nIn August 2007, reps employed by the Communication Workers Union were assigned at Cable and Wireless to provide guidance to employees regarding joining their union. Cable and Wireless also employed reps to provide guidance to Cable and Wireless management. But according to an article in The Guardian, the Communication Workers Union expressed \"shock\" saying that such hiring \"can only lead to an atmosphere of bitterness and resentment.\" \n\nIn April 2008, after a review of the “appropriate bargaining unit”, the Central Arbitration Committee ordered a workforce ballot election process (as opposed to automatic recognition) as the best way to decide the most appropriate form of representation. The subsequent ballot election resulted in a 92% turnout of the Cable and Wireless Field Services team where 77% voted against the Communication Worker’s Union as their representative for collective bargaining.\n\nIn May 2009, to dispute the outcome of the ballot election, the Communication Workers Union filed a complaint to the Central Arbitration Committee and The Joint Committee on Human Rights. Annotated from evidence presented at the hearing: “The Burke Group (TBG) was engaged by Cable and Wireless to advise them on the statutory recognition process because it was complex and unfamiliar to Cable and Wireless. TBG helped Cable and Wireless to implement a 'fact-based' approach to the ballot process which enabled managers to inform their teams about the union recognition process and what it would mean for them. The Burke Group did not engage directly with employees in the bargaining unit, and they supported the ballot process. Both Cable and Wireless and the Communication Workers Union had equal access to employees and colleagues during the 20 day ballot process.”\n"}
{"id": "19883277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19883277", "title": "The Go-Giver", "text": "The Go-Giver\n\nThe Go-Giver: A Little Story about a Powerful Business Idea is a business book written by Bob Burg and John D. Mann. It is a story about the power of giving. The first edition was published on December 27, 2007 by Portfolio Hardcover.\n\nThe \"Go-Giver\" as the authors tell, revolves around the story of a young professional (Joe) who is striving for success. Joe is ambitious, however lately it seems like his hard work and efforts are not paying off in terms of results. Following a disappointing quarter—in terms of sales results—he inadvertently seeks the mentorship of \"The Chairman\".\n\nJoe then embarks on a learning journey by meeting \"Go-Givers\"—friends of \"The Chairman\". Through these interactions he learns of the \"Five Laws of Stratospheric Success\":\n\n\n\"The Go-Giver's\" fictional story got the attention of prominent business managers, including reviewers at \"Business Week\". The book was #9 on the \"Businessweek\" Best Seller list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15733414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15733414", "title": "Tōru Shōriki", "text": "Tōru Shōriki\n\nIn 1942, he received his degree from the Faculty of Economics at Keio University.\n\nShōriki was also owner of the Yomiuri Giants baseball team from 1964 until 1996, again in succession to his father. He retained the title of \"honorary owner\" until his death in a hospital in Tokyo on 15 August 2011, aged 92.\n\n"}
{"id": "57784992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57784992", "title": "U. Gary Charlwood", "text": "U. Gary Charlwood\n\nU. Gary Charlwood (born 1941) is a German-born Canadian businessman, Executive Chairman and CEO of Charlwood Pacific Group, Founder & Executive Chairman of CENTURY 21 Canada, and Chairman CEO & Founder of Uniglobe Travel International. In 2017, Charlwood was ranked as the 92nd richest person in Canada. In 2015, Charlwood was named\"The Most Powerful Person in Residential Real Estate\" by the Swanepoel Power 200.\n\nBorn in Germany, he moved to London in 1948 to join his mother, who had remarried after his father’s death. Later he attended University of Southampton.\n\nCharlwood serves as the executive chairman of Charlwood Pacific Group, which owns Century 21 Asia-Pacific, Uniglobe Travel International, Centum Financial Group and Real Property Management Canada. These companies have more than 1,700 franchise locations with more than 26,000 support staff in 561 cities in 67 countries, making it one of the largest international franchise systems in Canada, reportedly by REM (magazine).\n\nHe established UNIGLOBE Travel International in 1979, which is one of the largest travel agencies in number of outlets in the world.\n\nIn 1975 U. Gary along with Peter H. Thomas bought the franchise rights for Century 21 Real Estate Canada. But unfortunately, the Century 21 concept was shut down by the Real Estate Council of BC, as it was claimed that franchising was illegal in the real estate brokerage business. Charlwood challenged the ruling in court and won, following which he successfully opened the door to a wide array of American brokerages now commonplace in Canada, including RE/MAX, Coldwell Banker and, more recently, Royal LePage. CENTURY 21 Canada was the first real estate brokerage company with offices coast to coast in Canada. Currently, Century 21 remains one of the largest companies in Canada with more than 400 locations and 10,000 system members. The Charlwood Pacific Group also holds 50% ownership in Century 21 Asia Pacific. His Canadian and Asian Century 21 companies have a combined 939 franchisees, employing 19000 salespeople as of June 2016.\n\nIn 2002, he founded Centum, a mortgage brokerage franchise brand. His Canadian and Asian Century 21 companies have a combined 939 franchisees, employing 19,000 salespeople, as of June 2016.,\n\nIn 2010, he acquired the Real Property Management (RPM) rights for Canada, a Utah based company which manages properties for real estate investors.\n\nBefore starting his own company, Charlwood also worked for Western Airlines (now Delta Air Lines) and CP Air (now Air Canada).\n\nHe was elected as Chairman of the International Franchise Association of Washington, DC, the only non-American to ever hold the position.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53695729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53695729", "title": "Unique Transaction Identifier", "text": "Unique Transaction Identifier\n\nA Unique Transaction Identifier (Acronym: UTI), alternatively called Unique Swap Identifier (Acronym: USI) is a globally unique identifier for individual transactions in financial markets. USIs were introduced in late 2012 in the U.S. in the context of Dodd-Frank regulation, where reporting of transactions to Trade Repositories first became mandatory. European financial market regulations followed suit, with reporting to Trade Repositories under EMIR requiring UTIs from February 2014 on. The use of the UTI is also mandatory for regulatory reporting under REMIT. Strictly speaking, the term USI is specific to the U.S. regulation, while UTI is specific to EU regulations. In practice, both terms are used interchangeable, in particular within large trading firms reporting under both regimes.\n\nA UTI/USI is an alphanumeric code of fixed length, with the maximum length defined as either 42 (U.S.) or 52 (EU) characters. The UTI typically consists of a prefix followed by the concatenated code value. Taken together, prefix and value form the UTI, and should be globally unique.\n\nThe prefix portion of the UTI code should be a unique code for the code issueing authority. Ideally, the prefix would have reused the Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) of the entity issueing the UTI. LEI codes are used across the financial reporting regimes in the U.S. (Dodd-Frank) and Europe (EMIR / MiFID). However, the LEI code length of 20 characters represented a problem for many systems, which in practice limited the usable prefix length to 10 characters. In June 2013, ISDA working groups suggested that the characters 7 through 16 of the 20 character global LEI number should be used as the UTI prefix. This would have led to clashes between UTIs generated for different organisations having the same characters 7 through 16 in their LEIs. Now the recommended best practice entails a 10 character UTI Prefix, algorithmically derived from an entity’s 20 character LEI using hash algorithms.\n\nThe second component of the UTI is the code value, sometimes called the Transaction Identifier part. The CFTC defines the transaction identifier part as an alphanumeric code of variable length, up to a maximum of 32 characters. In addition to alphanumeric characters, certain special characters are permissible as internal delimiters: colon, hyphen, period, and underscore. These special characters may not start or end the code, nor may they be used consecutively.\n\nThe ESMA recommend that the Trade ID should be formed by the concatenation (without separators) of the three elements; the characters 'E02', the LEI of the generating entity and a unique Trade ID generated by the generating entity. The prefixes 'E00' through 'E99' are reserved by the ESMA.\n\nCheck digits are not a prescribed part of the UTI, but some issueing systems have them as part of the code value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3329849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3329849", "title": "William Byrd III", "text": "William Byrd III\n\nWilliam Byrd III (September 6, 1728January 1 or January 2, 1777) was the son of William Byrd II and the grandson of William Byrd I. He inherited his family's estate of approximately 179,000 acres of land in Virginia and continued their planter prestige as a member of the Virginia House of Burgesses.\n\nHe chose to fight in the French and Indian War rather than spend much time in Richmond. In 1756 he was colonel of the Second Virginia Regiment.\n\nWilliam Byrd III had a reputation as a notorious gambler. He initiated what was said to have been the first major horse race in the New World, involving other planters Samuel Ogle, John Tayloe II, Francis Thornton, and Benjamin Tasker Jr.\n\nByrd III eventually fathered five children by his first wife (Eliza Carter, m. 1748, d. 1760), and fathered ten more by his second wife, Mary Willing, daughter of Charles Willing of Philadelphia. After he squandered the Byrd fortune on building a magnificent mansion at Westover Plantation, gambling, and bad investments, Byrd III parceled up much of the land he had inherited from his father and sold it off to raise money to pay his debts. He also sold the enslaved African laborers who had worked on his estate.\n\nAlthough his sale of land and slaves generated a huge sum it still was not enough to pay off his creditors. Later, Byrd resorted to a lottery, the prizes of which would come from his estate, Belvidere, at the falls of the James River. However the lottery failed to generate sufficient revenue.\n\nDespondent and nearly broke, Byrd III committed suicide on January 1 or 2, 1777. He was buried in the cemetery at the old Westover Church.\n\nThe 10 children of his second marriage (to Mary Willing) were: Maria Horsmanden Byrd, Evelyn Taylor Byrd, Charles Willing Byrd (died as child), Abby Byrd, Anne Willing Byrd, William Boyd Byrd, Charles Willing Byrd, Dorothy Byrd (died as child), Jane Byrd and Richard Willing Byrd.\n\n"}
{"id": "22756322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22756322", "title": "William Henry Beatty", "text": "William Henry Beatty\n\nWilliam Henry Beatty (December 10, 1833 – November 20, 1912), was a Canadian lawyer and businessman.\n\nWilliam Henry Beatty was the eldest of three sons and five daughters of James Beatty, an Irish born Toronto merchant. James had operated the British Woollen and Cotton Warehouse on the south side of King Street and had served in the militia, rising to the rank of Colonel. In 1832, he had married Ann, the daughter of James McKowen of Dublin. He was educated at Upper Canada College from 1842 to 1845. Some years later Beatty decided to study law. He articled with John Leys and attended lectures at Osgoode Hall. He was admitted to the Bar February 5, 1863 and entered into partnership with Edward Marion Chadwick who was from an important Guelph family also of Irish origin and his future brother-in-law. On Tuesday 28 June 1864, Chadwick married Beatty's sister, Ellen at St. James Cathedral. Regrettably Ellen, the woman who had brought the two partners together, died suddenly in February of the following year, after only a few hours of illness. \nChadwick's short-lived marriage to Ellen may have helped cement the partnership, but the success of the firm was intimately connected with Beatty's marriage. In April, 1865, Beatty remarried Charlotte Louisa Worts at Little Trinity Anglican Church. She was the eldest daughter of James Gooderham Worts, was one of the two partners in the Gooderham & Worts distillery and milling business and an important figure in a number of other businesses. \n\nBeatty and Chadwick remained partners for almost 50 years. Of the two, it was Beatty who made the firm Canada's largest law firm, numbering 16 lawyers in 1901. As a lawyer, Beatty helped his clients establish and manage their businesses. He remained the managing partner of the firm until 1906, personally overseeing the many details of its operation. \n\nBeatty was also a businessman. By 1890 he had become the principal legal and business adviser to the Gooderham and Worts business empire and was one of the most prominent members of the developing Canadian financial community. At various times, he served as a director of Gooderham & Worts, Limited. (the company he incorporated on Worts' death to continue the partnership business), Vice-President of London and Ontario Investment Company and Canada's first trust company, the Toronto General Trusts Corporation, and was President of the Bank of Toronto, the Toronto Silver Plate Company, the Canada Permanent Mortgage Corporation and the Confederation Life Association, an insurance company that he helped found in 1871 and manage for over forty years . \n\nHe was active in the Toronto Board of Trade, co-authoring with Wallace Nesbitt a set of arbitration rules for the board. He also represented the Board in 1896 at the Congress of the Chambers of Commerce of the British Empire in London, England. \n\nAlthough, in his words he did not take \"any active interest in politics\", he was a \"true blue Conservative\" and when he thought it necessary, he used his political connections and his personal friendship with Sir John A. Macdonald and Sir Charles Tupper to assist his clients.\n\n"}
{"id": "43191269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43191269", "title": "World Chamber of Commerce", "text": "World Chamber of Commerce\n\nThe World Chamber of Commerce (WCC) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit global organization dedicated to fostering international trade, cultural and humanitarian cooperation. The World Chamber organizes initiatives and events targeted at furthering these aims. The WCC develops partnerships and acts as a liaison between international and local businesses, supporting efforts from embassies, consulates, multilateral organizations, bi-national chambers of commerce, and businesses promoting global commerce, economic, cultural and social exchange. The WCC headquarters is in Atlanta, United States.\n\nThe World Chamber of Commerce was founded by International Trade Consultant Solange Warner in 2008. The organization's first activities were a set of successful international trade seminars which served to bring together the international and local business community in Atlanta. Warner also developed the \" WCC International Hero Award\" to recognize individuals who have demonstrated excellence in international trade, cultural and humanitarian work; along with the \"WCC International Trade Process\" to assist international business with initial complimentary advice, when entering the U.S. business market.\n\n\nThe World Chamber of Commerce's honorary chairs include former Atlanta mayor and U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Andrew Young, the former president of Colombia, Alvaro Uribe, the Premier of Bermuda, Paula Cox, presidential candidate and former Governor of New Mexico Gary Johnson, LucasFilm VP Howard Kazanjian and actor and environmentalist Ed Begley, Jr..\nThe Executive Committee consists of three chairmen of the board- Charles Shapiro, former U.S. Ambassador to Venezuela, Denis Barbet, Consul General of France in the Southeast U.S. and Solange Warner, founder of the World Chamber of Commerce. The President of the WCC board is Roma Klicius, honorary consul of Lithuania, the vice president is Dan Moss, Jr., Senior VP at Morgan Stanley, the Secretaries are Charles Kuck and Richard Summers, attorneys at law, and the Treasurer is Wayne Johnson, Principal at Johnson Consulting Services.\n\nThe World Chamber of Commerce has created the initiative: \"Human Trafficking Awareness to Keep Our Children Safe\" to end human trafficking in concert with several humanitarian organizations. Additionally, the World Chamber of Commerce has created initiatives to provide aid to victims of earthquakes in Haiti and Chile.\n"}
{"id": "37019966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37019966", "title": "Yair Shamir", "text": "Yair Shamir\n\nYair Shamir (; born 18 August 1945) is an Israeli politician, businessman and former military officer. He served as a member of the Knesset for Yisrael Beiteinu between 2013 and 2015, during which he also held the post of Minister of Agriculture.\n\nThe son of former Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and his wife Shulamit, Yair Shamir was born in Ramat Gan and raised in Tel Aviv. He was named after Avraham \"Yair\" Stern, founder of Lehi, a Jewish underground movement that functioned in the years before the founding of the modern State of Israel. When he was a year old, his father Yitzhak was captured by the British and exiled to Eritrea. When Yair was two years old, his mother was arrested as a Lehi activist. The family was not reunited until the end of 1948.\n\nShamir lives in Savyon and is married to Ella, with whom he has three children and seven grandchildren.\n\nShamir served in the Israeli Air Force from 1963 to 1988 as a pilot, engineer and commander. In 1974, during his military service, Shamir completed a degree in electrical engineering at the Technion – Israel Institute of Technology. In 1988 Shamir was honorably discharged with the rank of colonel.\n\nShamir served as the General Manager of Scitex Israel and as Corporate Vice President of Scitex (1988–1994), CEO of Elite Food Industries (1994–1995), Vice President of the Challenge Fund, an Israeli venture capital fund (1995–1997), President and CEO of VCON Telecommunications (1997–2002) and as Chairman (2002–2006), Chairman and Managing Partner of Catalyst, a venture capital fund (since 1999), Chair of Shamir Optical Industry Ltd. (2005–2007) and as a member of the boards of high-tech companies such as Mercury Orckit, Mirabilis, Comfy, Longitudinal, DSP Group and Poalim Capital Markets. Between 2004 and 2005, Shamir served as chair of the board of directors of El Al, the flag-carrier of Israel.\n\nBetween 2005 and 2011, Shamir served as the chairman of Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI), where he worked without pay. After the end of his first tenure, the Finance Minister Roni Bar-On made its renewal conditional on Shamir's signing a document barring him from engaging in political activity. Despite Shamir's reluctance, his tenure was renewed.\n\nBetween 2005 and 2011, Chairman Shamir oversaw the company's phenomenal recovery. During his first year, Shamir replaced 13 of the company's 19 top managers. After he took office, the company’s net profit grew from $2 million in 2005 to $130 million in 2006. The revenues grew from $2.341 billion to $3.148 billion by 2010 with a net profit of $94 million. Under Shamir's leadership, Israel Aerospace Industries issued NIS 1.4 billion in tradable bonds. During this period the company entered the Russian market, established a leading position in the drone industry and launched four satellites into space.\n\nControversially, in 2011, Defense Minister Ehud Barak appointed Dov Bahrav of Amdocs as chairman. Shamir is thought to have been the key person behind IAI's initial public offering. In 2011, after six years at the IAI, Shamir became the director of the National Roads Company of Israel. According to Shamir, when he voluntarily left the army to go into business, his father would not talk to him for several months because he had held service to the country higher than material gain. However, Shamir states that he moved to the business world to promote Israel's industry and not out of material considerations.\n\nShamir currently serves on the Board of Directors of several private companies as well as on several NASDAQ traded companies including: Commtouch (CTCH), DSP Group (DSPG), Cyalume (CYLU) and Selway (OTCBB:SWCAU).\n\nShamir also has several public roles and sits on the Board of Governors of the Technion and on the Board of Trustees of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev. He also serves as chairman of the board of directors of the Shalem Center.\n\nShamir is the chairman and co-founder of Gvahim, a non-profit organization that helps highly qualified new immigrants accomplish their professional goals in Israel. Shamir inspired and underwrote a series of Rohr Jewish Learning Institute classes commemorating the centennial of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's birth.\n\nIn May 2012 Yisrael Beiteinu Chairman Avigdor Lieberman appointed Shamir deputy leader of the party. He was elected to the Knesset in the 2013 elections, and was appointed Minister of Agriculture.\n\nIn January 2015 Shamir announced that he was leaving the party and would not contest the 2015 elections due to disagreements with Lieberman over foreign policy.\n\nIn an interview given to \"The Jewish Press\" in 2004, Shamir said that he did not believe in surrendering Israeli-controlled land to the Arabs, but that he would compromise if this was necessary. He also said that then-US President George W. Bush was better for Israel than then-Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. He also criticized Benjamin Netanyahu for caving in to pressure too easily, and believed that Israel should do what it thinks is right without regard to global opinion. Shamir was also opposed to the Tannenbaum prisoner exchange with Hezbollah.\n\n"}
{"id": "39980557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39980557", "title": "Øivin Skappel Fjeldstad", "text": "Øivin Skappel Fjeldstad\n\nØivin Skappel Fjeldstad (born 6 February 1936) is a Norwegian banker and politician for the Conservative Party.\n\nHe was born in Oslo as a son of conductor Øivin Fjeldstad (1903–1983) and housewife Julie Skappel (1910–1996). He is a brother of actress Lise Fjeldstad and brother-in-law of Per Sunderland.\n\nHe finished secondary education in 1955, commerce school in 1956, officer training in 1957 and graduated from the Norwegian School of Economics with the siv.øk. degree in 1961. He chaired the student society there in 1960. He was a consultant for Dalen Portland Cementfabrikk from 1961 to 1965, office manager for Årdal og Sunndal Verk from 1965 to 1968, financial director for Follum Fabrikker from 1968 to 1978 and Akers Mekaniske Verksted from 1978 to 1981. He then started a banking career in Bergen Bank in 1982, being promoted to vice chief executive in 1983 and later serving as vice chief executive in Den norske Bank from 1990 to 1993. From 1993 to 1997 he was the chief executive of Den norske Bank Luxembourg, and from 1998 to 2003 he was a senior adviser in Landesbank Schleswig-Holstein.\n\nHe has chaired Kistefos Træsliberi from 1982 to 1986 (board member 1981 to 1994), Nord & Syd Kredittforsikring from 1986 to 1988 (board member since 1983), DnB Investment Fund SICAV from 1987 to 1999, Atlantic Securities ASA from 1998 to 2000 and the Anders Jahre Humanitarian Foundation from 1999. He was a board member of Ringerikes Sparebank (1978–1982), Bergens Mekaniske Verksteder (1978–1982), Aker Trøndelag (1978–1982), Stord Verft (1978–1982), Nylands Verksted (1978–1982), Fjerndata 1979–1982), Nortank (1979–1982), Trajan (1979–1982), Norgeskreditt (1985–1992), Deutsch-Skandinavische Bank (1985–1993), Viul Tresliperi (1987–1997), Den norske Bank Luxembourg (1992–1998), Greenfield Holding (2000–2004), Fred. Olsen Energy (2002–), Dextra Musica (2005–2007) and AL industrier (2005–). He was a supervisory council member of Det Norske Luftfartsselskap (1984–1997) (chair since 1986) and Verdipapirsentralen (1985–1995), corporate council member of Follum Fabrikker (1973–1980 and 1985–1988) and Tofte Industrier (1983–1985). In the cultural life, he chaired the council of the Oslo Philharmonic from 1984 to 1996.\n\nAs he moved around in Norway, he was a member of Høyanger municipal council 1967-1968 and Ringerike municipal council 1975-1987. He chaired the local party chapter from 1975 to 1979. He was elected as a deputy representative to the Parliament of Norway from Buskerud in 1981. From October 1981 to January 1982 he met regularly in Parliament, filling in for Mona Røkke who was a part of Willoch's First Cabinet. In total he was present during 187 days of parliamentary session.\n"}
