{"id": "148483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148483", "title": "Alberto Fujimori", "text": "Alberto Fujimori\n\nAlberto Fujimori Fujimori (; ; born 26 July 1938 or 4 August 1938) is a Peruvian former politician who served as the President of Peru from 28 July 1990 to 22 November 2000. His government is credited with the creation of Fujimorism, defeating the Shining Path insurgency and restoring Peru's macroeconomic stability. Fujimori ended his presidency by fleeing Peru for Japan amid a major scandal involving corruption and human rights violations. Even amid his prosecution in 2008 for crimes against humanity relating to his presidency, two-thirds of Peruvians polled voiced approval for his leadership in that period.\n\nA Peruvian of Japanese descent, Fujimori took refuge in Japan when faced with charges of corruption in 2000. On arriving in Japan, he attempted to resign his presidency via fax, but his resignation was rejected by the Congress of the Republic, which preferred to remove him from office by the process of impeachment. Wanted in Peru on charges of corruption and human rights abuses, Fujimori maintained a self-imposed exile until his arrest while visiting Chile in November 2005. He was extradited to face criminal charges in Peru in September 2007. In December 2007, Fujimori was convicted of ordering an illegal search and seizure and was sentenced to six years in prison. The Supreme Court upheld the decision upon his appeal. In April 2009, Fujimori was convicted of human rights violations and sentenced to 25 years in prison for his role in killings and kidnappings by the Grupo Colina death squad during his government's battle against leftist guerrillas in the 1990s. The verdict, delivered by a three-judge panel, marked the first time that an elected head of state has been extradited to his home country, tried and convicted of human rights violations. Fujimori was specifically found guilty of murder, bodily harm and two cases of kidnapping.\n\nIn July 2009, Fujimori was sentenced to seven and a half years in prison for embezzlement after he admitted to giving $15 million from the Peruvian treasury to his intelligence service chief, Vladimiro Montesinos. Two months later, he pleaded guilty in a fourth trial to bribery and received an additional six-year term. Transparency International considered the money embezzled by Fujimori to be the seventh-most for a head of government active within 1984–2004. Under Peruvian law, all the sentences must run concurrently; thus, the maximum length of imprisonment remained 25 years. In December 2017, President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski granted the 79-year-old Fujimori a humanitarian pardon. The pardon was overturned by Peru's Supreme Court in October 2018 and Fujimori was ordered back to prison.\n\nAccording to government records, Fujimori was born on 28 July 1938, in Miraflores, a district of Lima. His parents, Naoichi Fujimori (original surname \"Minami\", adopted by a childless relative; 1897–1971) and Mutsue Inomoto Fujimori (1913–2009), were natives of Kumamoto, Japan, who migrated to Peru in 1934.\n\nIn July 1997, the news magazine \"Caretas\" alleged that Fujimori had actually been born in Japan, in his father's hometown of Kawachi, Kumamoto Prefecture. Because Peru's constitution requires the president to have been born in Peru, this would have made Fujimori ineligible to be president. The magazine, which had been sued for libel by Vladimiro Montesinos seven years earlier, reported that Fujimori's birth and baptismal certificates might have been altered. \"Caretas\" also alleged that Fujimori's mother declared having two children when she entered Peru; Fujimori is the second of four children. \"Caretas\" contentions were hotly contested in the Peruvian media; the magazine \"Sí\", for instance, described the allegations as \"pathetic\" and \"a dark page for [Peruvian] journalism\". Latin American scholars Cynthia McClintock and Fabián Vallas note that the issue appeared to have died down among Peruvians after the Japanese government announced in 2000 that \"Fujimori's parents had registered his birth in the Japanese consulate in Lima\".\n\nFujimori obtained his early education at the Colegio Nuestra Señora de la Merced and La Rectora. Fujimori's parents were Buddhists, but he was baptised and raised as a Roman Catholic. While he spoke mainly Japanese at home, Fujimori also learned to become a proficient Spanish speaker during his years at school. In 1956, Fujimori graduated from La gran unidad escolar Alfonso Ugarte in Lima.\n\nHe went on to undergraduate studies at the Universidad Nacional Agraria La Molina in 1957, graduating in 1961 first in his class as an agricultural engineer. The following year he lectured on mathematics at the university. In 1964 he went to study physics at the University of Strasbourg in France. On a Ford scholarship, Fujimori also attended the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee in the United States, where he obtained his master's degree in mathematics in 1969. \n\nIn 1974, he married Susana Higuchi, also Japanese-Peruvian. They had four children, including a daughter, Keiko, and a son, Kenji, who would later follow their father into politics. \n\nIn recognition of his academic achievements, the sciences faculty of the Universidad Nacional Agraria offered Fujimori the deanship and in 1984 appointed him to the rectorship of the university, which he held until 1989. In 1987, Fujimori also became president of the National Commission of Peruvian University Rectors (Asamblea Nacional de Rectores), a position which he has held twice. He also hosted a TV show called \"Concertando\" from 1988 to 1989, on Peru's state-owned network, Channel 7.\n\nFujimori won the 1990 presidential election as a dark horse candidate under the banner of Cambio 90 (\"cambio\" means \"change\") beating world-renowned writer Mario Vargas Llosa in a surprising upset. He capitalized on profound disenchantment with outgoing president Alan García and the American Popular Revolutionary Alliance party (APRA). He exploited popular distrust of Vargas Llosa's identification with the existing Peruvian political establishment, and uncertainty about his plans for neoliberal economic reforms.\n\nDuring the campaign, Fujimori was nicknamed \"El Chino\", which roughly translates to \"Chinaman\"; it is common for people of any East Asian descent to be called \"chino\" in Peru, as elsewhere in Latin America, both derogatively and affectionately. Although he is of Japanese heritage, Fujimori has suggested that he was always gladdened by the term, which he perceived as a term of affection. With his election victory, he became just the second person of East Asian descent to become head of government of a Latin American nation, after Fulgencio Batista of Cuba and the third of East Asian descent to govern a South American state, after Arthur Chung of Guyana and Henk Chin A Sen of Suriname (each of whom had served as head of state, rather than head of government).\n\nDuring his first term in office, Fujimori enacted wide-ranging neoliberal reforms, known as Fujishock. During the presidency of Alan García, the economy had entered a period of hyperinflation and the political system was in crisis due to the country's internal conflict, leaving Peru in \"economic and political chaos\". It was Fujimori's stated objective to pacify the nation and restore economic balance. This program bore little resemblance to his campaign platform and was in fact more drastic than anything Vargas Llosa had proposed. Nonetheless, the \"Fujishock\" succeeded in restoring Peru to the global economy, though not without immediate social cost.\n\nFujimori's initiative relaxed private sector price controls, drastically reduced government subsidies and government employment, eliminated all exchange controls, and also reduced restrictions on investment, imports, and capital. Tariffs were radically simplified, the minimum wage was immediately quadrupled, and the government established a $400 million poverty relief fund. The latter seemed to anticipate the economic agony to come: the price of electricity quintupled, water prices rose eightfold, and gasoline prices 3,000%.\n\nHowever, many do not attribute the Fujishock to Fujimori. In the 1980s, the IMF created a plan for South American economies called the Washington Consensus. The document, written by John Williamson in 1990, consists of ten measures that would lead to a healthy economic policy. Under pressure from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Peruvian government was to follow the guidelines set by the international finance community. The ten points were:\n\n\nThe IMF was content with Peru's measures, and guaranteed loan funding for Peru. Inflation rapidly began to fall and foreign investment capital flooded in. The privatization campaign involved selling off of hundreds of state-owned enterprises, and replacing the country's troubled currency, the inti, with the Nuevo Sol. The \"Fujishock\" restored macroeconomic stability to the economy and triggered a considerable long-term economic upturn in the mid-1990s. In 1994, the Peruvian economy grew at a rate of 13%, faster than any other economy in the world.\n\nDuring Fujimori's first term in office, APRA and Vargas Llosa's party, the FREDEMO, remained in control of both chambers of Congress, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, hampering the enactment of economic reform. Fujimori also had difficulty combatting the Maoist Shining Path () guerrilla organization due largely to what he perceived as intransigence and obstructionism in Congress. By March 1992, Congress met with the approval of only 17% of the electorate, according to one poll; the president's approval rate stood at 42%, in the same poll.\n\nIn response to the political deadlock, Fujimori, with the support of the military, on 5 April 1992, carried out a presidential coup. also known as the \"autogolpe\" (auto-coup or self-coup) or \"Fujigolpe\" (Fuji-coup) in Peru. He shut down Congress, suspended the constitution, and purged the judiciary.\n\nThe coup was welcomed by the public, according to numerous polls. Not only was the coup itself marked by favorable public opinion in several independent polls, but also public approval of the Fujimori administration jumped significantly in the wake of the coup. Fujimori often cited this public support in defending the coup, which he characterized as \"not a negation of real democracy, but on the contrary… a search for an authentic transformation to assure a legitimate and effective democracy.\" Fujimori believed that Peruvian democracy had been nothing more than \"a deceptive formality – a facade\". He claimed the coup was necessary in order to break with the deeply entrenched special interests that were hindering him from rescuing Peru from the chaotic state in which García had left it.\n\nFujimori's coup was immediately met with near-unanimous condemnation from the international community. The Organization of American States denounced the coup and demanded a return to \"representative democracy\", despite Fujimori's claim that the coup represented a \"popular uprising\". Foreign ministers of OAS member states reiterated this condemnation of the \"autogolpe\". They proposed an urgent effort to promote the re-establishment of \"the democratic institutional order\" in Peru. Negotiations between the OAS, the government, and opposition groups led Albert Fujimori initially to propose a referendum to ratify the auto-coup, but the OAS rejected this. Fujimori then proposed scheduling elections for a Democratic Constituent Congress (CCD), which would draft a new constitution to be ratified by a national referendum. Despite a lack of consensus among political forces in Peru regarding this proposal, an \"ad hoc\" OAS meeting of ministers nevertheless endorsed this scenario in mid-May. Elections for the CCD were held 22 November 1992.\n\nVarious states individually condemned the coup. Venezuela broke off diplomatic relations, and Argentina withdrew its ambassador. Chile joined Argentina in requesting Peru's suspension from the Organization of American States. International lenders delayed planned or projected loans, and the United States, Germany and Spain suspended all non-humanitarian aid to Peru. The coup appeared to threaten the reinsertion strategy for economic recovery, and complicated the process of clearing Peru's arrears with the International Monetary Fund.\n\nPeruvian–U.S. relations earlier in Fujimori's presidency had been dominated by questions of coca eradication and Fujimori's initial reluctance to sign an accord to increase his military's eradication efforts in the lowlands. Fujimori's \"autogolpe\" became a major obstacle to relations, as the United States immediately suspended all military and economic aid, with exceptions for counter-narcotic and humanitarian funds. Two weeks after the self-coup, however, the George H.W. Bush administration changed its position and officially recognized Fujimori as the legitimate leader of Peru, partly because he was willing to implement economic austerity measures, but also because of his adamant opposition to the Shining Path.\n\nWith FREDEMO dissolved and APRA leader Alan García exiled to Colombia, Fujimori sought to legitimize his position. He called elections for a Democratic Constitutional Congress, to serve as a legislature and a constituent assembly. The APRA and Popular Action attempted a boycott of this election, but the Popular Christian Party (PPC, not to be confused with PCP, Partido Comunista del Peru) and many left-leaning parties participated in this election. Fujimori supporters won a majority of the seats in this body, and drafted a new constitution in 1993. In a referendum, the coup and the Constitution of 1993 were approved by a narrow margin of less than five percent.\n\nLater in the year, on 13 November, General Jaime Salinas led a failed military coup. Salinas asserted that his intentions were to turn Fujimori over to be tried for violating the Peruvian constitution.\n\nIn 1994, Fujimori separated from his wife Susana Higuchi in a noisy, public divorce. He formally stripped her of the title First Lady in August 1994, appointing their eldest daughter First Lady in her stead. Higuchi publicly denounced Fujimori as a \"tyrant\" and claimed that his administration was corrupt. They formally divorced in 1995.\n\nIn Fujimori's first term of office, over 3,000 Peruvians were killed in political murders.\n\nThe 1993 Constitution allowed Fujimori to run for a second term, and in April 1995, at the height of his popularity, Fujimori easily won reelection with almost two-thirds of the vote. His major opponent, former Secretary-General of the United Nations Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, won only 22 percent of the vote. Fujimori's supporters won comfortable majorities in the legislature. One of the first acts of the new congress was to declare an amnesty for all members of the Peruvian military or police accused or convicted of human rights abuses between 1980 and 1995. \n\nDuring his second term, Fujimori along with Ecuadorian President Sixto Durán Ballén, signed a peace agreement with Ecuador over a border dispute that had simmered for more than a century. The treaty allowed the two countries to obtain international funds for developing the border region. Fujimori also settled some issues with Chile, Peru's southern neighbor, which had been unresolved since the 1929 Treaty of Lima.\n\nThe 1995 election was the turning point in Fujimori's career. Peruvians began to be more concerned about freedom of speech and the press. However, before he was sworn in for a second term, Fujimori stripped two universities of their autonomy and reshuffled the national electoral board. This led his opponents to call him \"Chinochet,\" a reference to his previous nickname and to Chilean ruler Augusto Pinochet. Modleing his rule after Pinochet Fujimori reportedly enjoyed this nickname. \n\nAccording to a poll by the Peruvian Research and Marketing Company conducted in 1997, 40.6% of Lima residents considered President Fujimori an authoritarian.\n\nIn addition to the fate of democracy under Fujimori, Peruvians were becoming increasingly interested in the myriad allegations of criminality that involved Fujimori and his chief of the National Intelligence Service (SIN), Vladimiro Montesinos. Using SIN, Fujimori gained control of the majority of the armed forces, with \"Financial Times\" stating that \"[i]n no other country in Latin America did a president have so much control over the armed forces\".\n\nA 2002 report by Health Minister later suggested that Fujimori was involved in the forced sterilizations of up to 300,000 indigenous women between 1996 and 2000, as part of a population control program. A 2004 World Bank publication said that in this period Montesinos' abuse of the power Fujimori granted him \"led to a steady and systematic undermining of the rule of law\".\n\nThe 1993 constitution limited a presidency to two terms. Shortly after Fujimori began his second term, his supporters in Congress passed a law of \"authentic interpretation\" which effectively allowed him to run for another term in 2000. A 1998 effort to repeal this law by referendum failed. In late 1999, Fujimori announced that he would run for a third term. Peruvian electoral bodies, which were politically sympathetic to Fujimori, accepted his argument that the two-term restriction did not apply to him, as it was enacted while he was already in office.\n\nExit polls showed Fujimori fell short of the 50% required to avoid an electoral runoff, but the first official results showed him with 49.6% of the vote, just short of outright victory. Eventually, Fujimori was credited with 49.89%—20,000 votes short of avoiding a runoff. Despite reports of numerous irregularities, the international observers recognized an adjusted victory of Fujimori. His primary opponent, Alejandro Toledo, called for his supporters to spoil their ballots in the runoff by writing \"No to fraud!\" on them (voting is mandatory in Peru). International observers pulled out of the country after Fujimori refused to delay the runoff.\n\nIn the runoff, Fujimori won with 51.1% of the total votes. While votes for Toledo declined from 37.0% of the total votes cast in the first round to 17.7% of the votes in the second round, invalid votes jumped from 8.1% of the total votes cast in the first round to 31.1% of total votes in the second round. The large percentage of invalid votes in this election suggests that many Peruvians took Toledo's advice and spoiled their ballots.\n\nAlthough Fujimori won the runoff with only a bare majority, rumors of irregularities led most of the international community to shun his third swearing-in on 28 July. For the next seven weeks, there were daily demonstrations in front of the presidential palace. As a conciliatory gesture, Fujimori appointed former opposition candidate Federico Salas as prime minister. However, opposition parties in Parliament refused to support this move, and Toledo campaigned vigorously to have the election annulled. At this point, a corruption scandal involving Vladimiro Montesinos broke out, and exploded into full force on the evening of 14 September 2000, when the cable television station Canal N broadcast footage of Montesinos apparently bribing opposition congressman Alberto Kouri for defecting to Fujimori's \"Perú 2000\" party. The video was presented by Fernando Olivera, leader of the FIM (Independent Moralizing Front), who purchased it from one of Montesinos's closest allies (nicknamed by the Peruvian press \"El Patriota\").\n\nFujimori's support virtually collapsed, and a few days later he announced in a nationwide address that he would shut down the SIN and call new elections, in which he would not be a candidate. On 10 November, Fujimori won approval from Congress to hold elections on 8 April 2001. On 13 November, Fujimori left Peru for a visit to Brunei to attend the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. On 16 November, Valentín Paniagua took over as president of Congress after the pro-Fujimori leadership lost a vote of confidence. On 17 November, Fujimori traveled from Brunei to Tokyo, where he submitted his presidential resignation via fax. Congress refused to accept his resignation, instead voting 62–9 to remove Fujimori from office on the grounds that he was \"permanently morally disabled.\"\n\nOn 19 November, government ministers presented their resignations en bloc. Because Fujimori's first vice president, Francisco Tudela, had broken with Fujimori and resigned a few days earlier, his successor Ricardo Márquez came to claim the presidency. Congress, however, refused to recognize him, as he was an ardent Fujimori loyalist; Márquez resigned two days later. Paniagua was next in line, and became interim president to oversee the April elections.\n\nWhen Fujimori came to power, much of Peru was dominated by the Maoist insurgent group Sendero Luminoso (\"Shining Path\"), and the Marxist–Leninist group Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (MRTA). In 1989, 25% of Peru's district and provincial councils opted not to hold elections, owing to a persistent campaign of assassination, over the course of which over 100 officials had been killed by the Shining Path in that year alone. That same year, more than one-third of Peru's courts lacked a justice of the peace, because of Shining Path intimidation. Union leaders and military officials were also assassinated throughout the 1980s.\n\nBy the early 1990s, some parts of the country were under the control of the insurgents, in territories known as \"zonas liberadas\" (\"liberated zones\"), where inhabitants lived under the rule of these groups and paid them taxes. When the Shining Path arrived in Lima, it organized \"paros armados\" (\"armed strikes\"), which were enforced by killings and other forms of violence. The leadership of the Shining Path was largely university students and teachers. Two previous governments, those of Fernando Belaúnde Terry and Alan García, at first neglected the threat posed by the Shining Path, then launched an unsuccessful military campaign to eradicate it, undermining public faith in the state and precipitating an exodus of elites.\n\nBy 1992, Shining Path guerrilla attacks had claimed an estimated 20,000 lives over preceding 12 years. On 16 July 1992 the Tarata Bombing, in which several car bombs exploded in Lima's wealthiest district, killed over 40 people; the bombings were characterized by one commentator as an \"offensive to challenge President Albert Fujimori.\" The bombing at Tarata was followed up with a \"weeklong wave of car bombings ... Bombs hit banks, hotels, schools, restaurants, police stations and shops ... [G]uerrillas bombed two rail bridges from the Andes, cutting off some of Peru's largest copper mines from coastal ports.\"\n\nFujimori has been credited by many Peruvians with ending the fifteen-year reign of terror of the Shining Path. As part of his anti-insurgency efforts, Fujimori granted the military broad powers to arrest suspected insurgents and try them in secret military courts with few legal rights. This measure has often been criticized for compromising the fundamental democratic and human right to an open trial wherein the accused faces the accuser. Fujimori contended that these measures were both justified and also necessary. Members of the judiciary were too afraid to charge the alleged insurgents, and judges and prosecutors had very legitimate fears of reprisals against them or their families. At the same time, Fujimori's government armed rural Peruvians, organizing them into groups known as \"rondas campesinas\" (\"peasant patrols\").\n\nInsurgent activity was in decline by the end of 1992, and Fujimori took credit for this abatement, claiming that his campaign had largely eliminated the insurgent threat. After the 1992 auto-coup, the intelligence work of the DINCOTE (National Counter-Terrorism Directorate) led to the capture of the leaders from MRTA and the Shining Path, including notorious Shining Path leader Abimael Guzmán. Guzmán's capture was a political coup for Fujimori, who used it to great effect in the press; in an interview with documentarian Ellen Perry, Fujimori even notes that he specially ordered Guzmán's prison jumpsuit to be white with black stripes, to enhance the image of his capture in the media.\n\nCritics charge that to achieve the defeat of the Shining Path, the Peruvian military engaged in widespread human rights abuses, and that the majority of the victims were poor highland countryside inhabitants caught in a crossfire between the military and insurgents. The final report of the Peruvian Truth and Reconciliation Commission, published on 28 August 2003, brought out that Peruvian armed forces were also guilty of destroying villages and murdering countryside inhabitants whom they suspected of supporting insurgents. The majority of the atrocities committed between 1980 and 1995, however, were indeed the work of the Shining Path.\n\nThe Japanese embassy hostage crisis began on 17 December 1996, when fourteen MRTA militants seized the residence of the Japanese ambassador in Lima during a party, taking hostage some four hundred diplomats, government officials, and other dignitaries. The action was partly in protest of prison conditions in Peru. During the four-month standoff, the \"Emerretistas\" gradually freed all but 72 of their hostages. The government rejected the militants' demand to release imprisoned MRTA members and secretly prepared an elaborate plan to storm the residence, while stalling by negotiating with the hostage-takers.\n\nOn 22 April 1997, a team of military commandos, codenamed \"Chavín de Huantar\", raided the building. One hostage, two military commandos, and all 14 MRTA insurgents were killed in the operation. Images of President Fujimori at the ambassador's residence during and after the military operation, surrounded by soldiers and liberated dignitaries, and walking among the corpses of the insurgents, were widely televised. The conclusion of the four-month-long standoff was used by Fujimori and his supporters to bolster his image as tough on terrorism.\n\nSeveral organizations criticized Fujimori's methods against the Shining Path and the MRTA. Amnesty International said \"the widespread and systematic nature of human rights violations committed during the government of former head of state Albert Fujimori (1990–2000) in Peru constitute crimes against humanity under international law.\" Fujimori's alleged association with death squads is currently being studied by the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, after the court accepted the case of \"Cantuta vs Perú\".\n\nThe 1991 Barrios Altos massacre by members of the death squad \"Grupo Colina\", made up solely of members of the Peruvian armed forces, was one of the crimes that Peru cited in its request to Japan for his extradition in 2003.\n\nFrom 1996 to 2000, the Fujimori government oversaw a massive forced sterilization campaign known as Voluntary Surgical Contraception. The United Nations and other international aid agencies supported this campaign. USAID provided funding and training until it was exposed by objections by churches and human rights groups. The Nippon Foundation, headed by Ayako Sono, a Japanese novelist and personal friend of Fujimori, supported as well. Over 215,000 people, mostly women, entirely indigenous, were forced or threatened into sterilization during these years, most of them without a proper anaesthetist.\n\nThe success of the military operation in the Japanese embassy hostage crisis was tainted by subsequent allegations that at least three and possibly eight of the insurgents were summarily executed by the commandos after surrendering. In 2002, the case was taken up by public prosecutors, but the Peruvian Supreme Court ruled that the military tribunals had jurisdiction. A military court later absolved them of guilt, and the \"Chavín de Huantar\" soldiers led the 2004 military parade. In response, in 2003 MRTA family members lodged a complaint with the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) accusing the Peruvian state of human rights violations, namely that the MRTA insurgents had been denied the \"right to life, the right to judicial guarantees and the right to judicial protection\". The IACHR accepted the case and is currently studying it.\n\nPeruvian Minister of Justice Maria Zavala has stated that this verdict by the IACHR supports the Peruvian government's extradition of Fujimori from Chile. Though the IACHR verdict does not directly implicate Fujimori, it does fault the Peruvian government for its complicity in the 1992 Cantuta University killings.\n\nAlberto Fujimori left Peru in November 2000 to attend a regional summit in Brunei. He then traveled on to Japan. Once there, he announced plans to remain in the country and faxed his resignation letter to Congress.\n\nAfter Congress rejected Fujimori's faxed resignation, they relieved Fujimori of his duties as president and banned him from Peruvian politics for a decade. He remained in self-imposed exile in Japan, where he resided with his friend, the famous Catholic novelist Ayako Sono. Several senior Japanese politicians have supported Fujimori, partly because of his decisive action in ending the 1997 Japanese embassy crisis.\n\nAlejandro Toledo, who assumed the Peruvian presidency in 2001, spearheaded the criminal case against Fujimori. He arranged meetings with the Supreme Court, tax authorities, and other powers in Peru to \"coordinate the joint efforts to bring the criminal Fujimori from Japan.\" His vehemence in this matter at times compromised Peruvian law: forcing the judiciary and legislative system to keep guilty sentences without hearing Fujimori's defense; not providing Fujimori with representation when Fujimori was tried \"in absentia\"; and expelling pro-Fujimori congressmen from the parliament without proof of the accusations against those congressmen. These expulsions were later reversed by the judiciary.\n\nThe Peruvian Congress authorized charges against Fujimori in August 2001. Fujimori was alleged to be a co-author, along with Vladimiro Montesinos, of the death-squad killings at Barrios Altos in 1991 and La Cantuta in 1992. At the behest of Peruvian authorities, Interpol issued an arrest order for Fujimori on charges that included murder, kidnapping, and crimes against humanity. \n\nMeanwhile, the Peruvian government found that Japan was not amenable to the extradition of Fujimori; a protracted diplomatic debate ensued, when Japan showed itself unwilling to accede to the extradition request. Fujimori had been granted Japanese citizenship after his arrival in the country, and the Japanese government maintained that Japanese citizens would not be extradited.\n\nIn September 2003, Congressman Dora Dávila, joined by Minister of Health Luis Soari, denounced Fujimori and several of his ministers for crimes against humanity, for allegedly having overseen forced sterilizations during his regime. In November, Congress approved an investigation of Fujimori's involvement in the airdrop of Kalashnikov rifles into the Colombian jungle in 1999 and 2000 for guerrillas of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). Fujimori maintained he had no knowledge of the arms-trading, and blamed Montesinos. By approving the charges, Congress lifted the immunity granted to Fujimori as a former president, so that he could be criminally charged and prosecuted.\n\nCongress also voted to support charges against Fujimori for the detention and disappearance of 67 students from the central Andean city of Huancayo and the disappearance of several residents from the northern coastal town of Chimbote during the 1990s. It also approved charges that Fujimori mismanaged millions of dollars from Japanese charities, suggesting that the millions of dollars in his bank account were far too much to have been accumulated legally. \n\nIn 2004, the Special Prosecutor established to investigate Fujimori released a report alleging that the Fujimori administration had obtained US$2 billion though graft. Most of this money came from Vladimiro Montesinos' web of corruption. The Special Prosecutor's figure of two billion dollars is considerably higher than the one arrived at by Transparency International, an NGO that studies corruption. Transparency International listed Fujimori as having embezzled an estimated USD $600 million, which would rank seventh in the list of money embezzled by heads of government active within 1984-2004.\n\nFujimori dismissed the judicial proceedings underway against him as \"politically motivated\", citing Toledo's involvement. Fujimori established a new political party in Peru, \"Sí Cumple\", working from Japan. He hoped to participate in the 2006 presidential elections, but in February 2004, the Constitutional Court dismissed this possibility, because the ex-president was specifically barred by Congress from holding any office for ten years. Fujimori saw the decision as unconstitutional, as did his supporters such as ex-congressmembers Luz Salgado, Marta Chávez and Fernán Altuve, who argued it was a \"political\" maneuver and that the only body with the authority to determine the matter was the Jurado Nacional de Elecciones (JNE). Valentín Paniagua disagreed, suggesting that the Constitutional Court finding was binding and that \"no further debate is possible\".\n\nFujimori's \"Sí Cumple\" (roughly translated, \"He Keeps His Word\") received more than 10% in many country-level polls, contending with APRA for the second place slot, but did not participate in the 2006 elections after its participation in the Alliance for the Future (initially thought as \"Alliance Sí Cumple\") had not been allowed.\n\nBy March 2005, it appeared that Peru had all but abandoned its efforts to extradite Fujimori from Japan. In September of that year, Fujimori obtained a new Peruvian passport in Tokyo and announced his intention to run in the Peruvian national election, 2006. He arrived in Chile in November 2005, but hours after his arrival there he was arrested. Peru then requested his extradition.\n\nWhile under house arrest in Chile, Fujimori announced plans to run in Japan's Upper House elections in July 2007. Fujimori was extradited from Chile to Peru in September 2007.\n\nOn 7 April 2009 a three-judge panel convicted Fujimori on charges of human rights abuses, declaring that the \"charges against him have been proven beyond all reasonable doubt\". The panel found him guilty of ordering the Grupo Colina death squad to commit the November 1991 Barrios Altos massacre and the July 1992 La Cantuta Massacre, which resulted in the deaths of 25 people, as well as for taking part in the kidnappings of Peruvian opposition journalist Gustavo Gorriti and businessman Samuel Dyer. Fujimori's conviction is the only instance of a democratically elected head of state being tried and convicted of human rights abuses in his own country. Later on 7 April, the court sentenced Fujimori to 25 years in prison.\n\nHe faced a third trial in July 2009 over allegations that he illegally gave $15 million in state funds to Vladimiro Montesinos, former head of the National Intelligence Service, during the two months prior to his fall from power. Fujimori admitted paying the money to Montesinos but claimed that he had later paid back the money to the state. On 20 July, the court found him guilty of embezzlement and sentenced him to a further seven and a half years in prison.\n\nA fourth trial took place in September 2009 in Lima. Fujimori was accused of using Montesinos to bribe and tap the phones of journalists, businessmen and opposition politicians – evidence of which led to the collapse of his government in 2000. Fujimori admitted the charges but claimed that the charges were made to damage his daughter's presidential election campaign. The prosecution asked the court to sentence Fujimori to eight years imprisonment with a fine of $1.6 million plus $1 million in compensation to ten people whose phones were bugged. Fujimori pleaded guilty and was sentenced to six years' imprisonment on 30 September 2009. Under Peruvian law, all prison sentences run concurrently.\n\nPress reports in late 2012 indicated that Fujimori was suffering from tongue cancer and other medical problems. His family asked President Ollanta Humala for a pardon. President Humala rejected a pardon in 2013, saying that Fujimori's condition was not serious enough to warrant it. In July 2016, with three days left in his term, President Humala said that there was insufficient time to evaluate a second request to pardon Fujimori, leaving the decision to his successor Pedro Pablo Kuczynski. On 24 December 2017, President Kuczynski pardoned him on health grounds. Kuczynski's office stated that the hospitalized 79-year-old Fujimori had a \"progressive, degenerative and incurable disease\". The pardon kicked off at least two days of protests and led at least three congressmen to resign from Kucyznski's party. A spokesman for Popular Force alleged there was a pact that, in exchange for the pardon, Popular Force members helped Kuczynski fight ongoing impeachment proceedings.\n\nOn 3 October 2018, the Peruvian Supreme Court reversed Fujimori's pardon and ordered his return to prison.\n\nFujimori is credited by many Peruvians for bringing stability to the country after the violence and hyperinflation of the García years. While it is generally agreed that the \"Fujishock\" brought short/middle-term macroeconomic stability, the long-term social impact of Fujimori's free market economic policies is still hotly debated.\n\nNeoliberal reforms under Fujimori took place in three distinct phases: an initial \"orthodox\" phase (1990–92) in which technocrats dominated the reform agenda; a \"pragmatic\" phase (1993–98) that saw the growing influence of business elites over government priorities; and a final \"watered-down\" phase (1999–2000) dominated by a clique of personal loyalists and their clientelist policies that aimed to secure Fujimori a third term as president. Business was a big winner of the reforms, with its influence increasing significantly within both the state and society.\n\nHigh growth during Fujimori's first term petered out during his second term. \"El Niño\" phenomena had a tremendous impact on the Peruvian economy during the late 1990s. Nevertheless, total GDP growth between 1992 and 2001, inclusive, was 44.60%, that is, 3.76% per annum; total GDP per capita growth between 1991 and 2001, inclusive, was 30.78%, that is, 2.47% per annum. Also, studies by INEI, the national statistics bureau show that the number of Peruvians living in poverty increased dramatically (from 41.6% to more than 70%) during Alan García's term, but they actually decreased (from more than 70% to 54%) during Fujimori's term. Furthermore, FAO reported Peru reduced undernourishment by about 29% from 1990–92 to 1997–99.\n\nPeru was reintegrated into the global economic system, and began to attract foreign investment. The sell-off of state-owned enterprises led to improvements in some service industries, notably local telephony, mobile telephony and Internet. For example, before privatization, a consumer or business had to wait up to 10 years to get a local telephone line installed by the state-run telephone company, at a cost of $607 for a residential line. A couple of years after privatization, the wait was reduced to just a few days. Peru's Physical land based telephone network had a dramatic increase in telephone penetration from 2.9% in 1993 to 5.9% in 1996 and 6.2% in 2000, and a dramatic decrease in the wait for a telephone line. Average wait went from 70 months in 1993 (before privatization) to two months in 1996 (after privatization). Privatization also generated foreign investment in export-oriented activities such as mining and energy extraction, notably the Camisea gas project and the copper and zinc extraction projects at Antamina.\n\nBy the end of the decade, Peru's international currency reserves were built up from nearly zero at the end of García's term to almost US$10 billion. Fujimori also left a smaller state bureaucracy and reduced government expenses (in contrast to the historical pattern of bureaucratic expansion), a technically minded (but widely perceived as politicized) administration of public entities like SUNAT (the tax collection agency), a large number of new schools, not only in Lima but in Peru's small towns, more roads and highways, and new and upgraded communications infrastructure. These improvements led to a revival in tourism, agroexport, industries and fisheries.\n\nDetractors have observed that Fujimori was able to encourage large-scale mining projects with foreign corporations and push through mining-friendly legislation laws because the post auto-coup political picture greatly facilitated the process.\n\nSome analysts state that some of the GDP growth during the Fujimori years reflects a greater rate of extraction of non-renewable resources by transnational companies; these companies were attracted by Fujimori by means of near-zero royalties, and, by the same fact, little of the extracted wealth has stayed in the country. Peru's mining legislation, they claim, has served as a role model for other countries that wish to become more mining-friendly.\n\nFujimori's privatization program also remains shrouded in controversy. A congressional investigation in 2002, led by socialist opposition congressman Javier Diez Canseco, stated that of the USD $9 billion raised through the privatizations of hundreds of state-owned enterprises, only a small fraction of this income ever benefited the Peruvian people.\n\nThe one instance of organised labour's success in impeding reforms, namely the teacher's union resistance to education reform, was based on traditional methods of organisation and resistance: strikes and street demonstrations.\n\nSome scholars claim that Fujimori's government became a \"dictatorship\" after the auto-coup, permeated by a network of corruption organized by his associate Montesinos, who now faces dozens of charges that range from embezzlement to drug trafficking to murder (Montesinos is currently on trial in Lima). Fujimori's style of government has also been described as \"populist authoritarianism\". Numerous governments and human rights organizations such as Amnesty International, have welcomed the extradition of Fujimori to face human rights charges. As early as 1991, Fujimori had himself vocally denounced what he called \"pseudo-human rights organizations\" such as Amnesty International and Americas Watch, for allegedly failing to criticize the insurgencies targeting civilian populations throughout Peru against which his government was struggling.\n\nIn the 2004 Global Transparency Report, Fujimori made into the list of the World's Most Corrupt Leaders. He was listed seventh and he was said to have amassed $600 million, but despite years of incarceration and investigation, none of these supposed stolen funds have ever been located in any bank account anywhere in the world.\n\nFujimori did have support within Peru. The Universidad de Lima March 2003 poll, taken while he was in Japan, found a 41% approval rating for his administration. A poll conducted in March 2005 by the Instituto de Desarrollo e Investigación de Ciencias Económicas (IDICE) indicated that 12.1% of the respondents intended to vote for Fujimori in the 2006 presidential election. A poll conducted on 25 November 2005, by the Universidad de Lima indicated a high approval (45.6%) rating of the Fujimori period between 1990 and 2000, attributed to his counterinsurgency efforts (53%). An article from \"La Razon\", a Peruvian newspaper, stated in 2003 that: \"Fujimori is only guilty of one big crime and it is that of having been successful in a country of failed politicians, creators of debt, builders of mirages, and downright opportunistic.\"\n\nAccording to a more recent Universidad de Lima survey, Fujimori still retains public support, ranking fifth in personal popularity among other political figures. Popular approval for his decade-long presidency (1990–2000) has reportedly grown (from 31.5% in 2002 to 49.5% in May 2007). Despite accusations of corruption and human rights violations, nearly half of the individuals interviewed in the survey approved of Fujimori's presidential regime. In a 2007 Universidad de Lima survey of 600 Peruvians in Lima and the port of Callao, 82.6% agreed that the former president should be extradited from Chile to stand trial in Peru.\n\nThe Lima-based newspaper \"Perú 21\" ran an editorial noting that even though the Universidad de Lima poll results indicate that four out of every five interviewees believe that Fujimori is guilty of some of the charges against him, he still enjoys at least 30% of popular support and enough approval to restart a political career.\n\nIn the 2006 congressional elections, his daughter Keiko was elected to the congress with the highest vote count. She came in second place in the 2011 Peruvian presidential election with 23.2% of the vote, and lost the June run-off against Ollanta Humala. She again ran for President in the 2016 election, narrowly losing the run-off to Pedro Pablo Kuczynski.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "153596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153596", "title": "Asylum and Immigration Tribunal", "text": "Asylum and Immigration Tribunal\n\nThe Asylum and Immigration Tribunal (AIT) was a tribunal constituted in the United Kingdom with jurisdiction to hear appeals from many immigration and asylum decisions. It was created on 4 April 2005, replacing the former Immigration Appellate Authority (IAA), and fell under the administration of the Tribunals Service.\n\nOn 15 February 2010, the Tribunal was abolished and its functions transferred to the new Asylum and Immigration Chamber of the First-tier Tribunal created by the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007.\n\nThe Special Immigration Appeals Commission (SIAC) has been set up to hear appeals against removal of potential deportees in high security cases. The information given to appellants and their representatives is limited as compared to other removal hearings.\n\nThe system of appeals to adjudicators (who were appointed by the Secretary of State) with the right of subsequent appeal to the Immigration Appeal Tribunal (IAT) (whose members were appointed by the Lord Chancellor) was first created by the Immigration Appeals Act 1969 (1969 c.21).\n\nThe predecessor of the AIT, the Immigration Appellate Authority (IAA), was an independent judicial body in the United Kingdom constituted under the Immigration Act 1971. It consisted of two tiers:Immigration Adjudicators and the Immigration Appeal Tribunal (IAT).\n\nImmigration Adjudicators considered appeals against decisions made by Immigration Officers, entry clearance officers and the Home Secretary, with permanent centres in Islington in inner London, Hatton Cross, Birmingham, Leeds, Manchester and Glasgow.\n\nThe IAT dealt with applications for leave to appeal and appeals against decisions made by the Immigration Adjudicators, the main hearing centre was in Bream's Buildings, just off Chancery Lane, in Central London.\n\nThe Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc.) Act 2004 abolished the two tier structure and created a single tier tribunal. All former adjudicators and members of the IAA became members of the new AIT. At this point, the Home Office Adjudicators became known as Immigration Judges, although many of these are not officially qualified as judges, the former 'regional adjudicators became Senior Immigration Judges, who are mostly involved in reconsideration applications for previously dismissed appeals.\n\nAt hearings, asylum seekers and would-be immigrants are usually, but not invariably, represented by legal representatives including barristers, advocates, solicitors, and those registered with the Office of the Immigration Service Commissioner. The UK government is usually represented by Home Office Presenting Officers (\"HOPOs\"); specially trained Civil Servants. For some significant cases, the Home Office instructs a barrister from TSol to conduct the case.\n\nProcedure is governed by the Asylum and Immigration Tribunal (Procedure) Rules 2005 (SI 2005/230).\n\nOrdinarily, there is no right to appeal a decision of the AIT.\n\nThe AIT makes most initial decisions through a single immigration judge. Such decisions can be \"reconsidered\". An order for reconsideration is sought by making a written request to the High Court in England and Wales or the Court of Session (Outer House) in Scotland. For an indefinite period requests for reconsideration orders will be considered initially by Immigration judges of the AIT (\"the filter\"); should the request be refused a party can opt into the High Court or Court of Session.\n\nEither of the parties (the Home Secretary or the Appellant) can apply for reconsideration, within strict time limits (for example, 5 days from receipt of the decision if the Appellant is in the UK). Such an application must be made in writing. A Senior Immigration Judge considers whether or not the grounds for reconsideration are \"arguable\". The only matters which can be considered are errors of law. A party cannot say that he seeks a re-hearing of the facts or that the factual conclusions reached by the Immigration Judge are wrong. He can only seek reconsideration if the Immigration Judge has misdirected himself in law, failed to consider relevant material, considered irrelevant material, or erred in his fact-finding to the extent that the findings are irrational and therefore amount to an error of law.\n\nIf permission is refused on the papers, the party may renew his application for an order for reconsideration to the High Court or Court of Session. Again, the time limits are short. If the High Court or Court of Sessions agree that the AIT has made a mistake in not considering the application for reconsideration, he may order the AIT to reconsider.\n\nA successful application comes before the AIT for reconsideration. Most of these cases are heard at the old IAT, at Field House, Bream's Buildings, just off Chancery Lane in central London. Some are heard elsewhere. The initial hearing is a first-stage reconsideration, usually called an \"error of law hearing\" by lawyers and Immigration Judges. The panel of Immigration Judges (usually one legally-qualified Senior Immigration Judge and one or two lay members) determine whether a material error of law was made in the determination (judgment). If they conclude that no error was made, that is the end of the matter in front of the AIT. If they conclude that there was a material error of law, they may either reconsider the case in full or in part themselves, or (more usually) order that it be re-heard at a later date. They may set out that all the case be re-considered, or only part of it, depending on the exact circumstances. The second-stage reconsideration may be heard by three Immigration Judges, or by a single Immigration Judge.\n\nAfter a re-hearing, or if the AIT which hears a case for the first time has a 3 or more members, the decision may only be challenged by an appeal to the Court of Appeal (Civil Division) in England and Wales, or the Court of Session (Inner House) in Scotland. Permission is required for such an appeal either from the Tribunal itself or the relevant court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "293054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293054", "title": "Blockade", "text": "Blockade\n\nA blockade is an effort to cut off supplies, war material or communications from a particular area by force, either in part or totally. A blockade should not be confused with an embargo or sanctions, which are legal barriers to trade. It is also distinct from a siege in that a blockade is usually directed at an entire country or region, rather than a fortress or city. While most blockades historically took place at sea, blockade is still used on land to prevent someone coming into a certain area.\n\nA blockading power can seek to cut off all maritime transport from and to the blockaded country; although stopping all land transport to and from an area may also be considered a blockade. Blockades restrict the trading rights of neutrals, who must submit for inspection for contraband, which the blockading power may define narrowly or broadly, sometimes including food and medicine. In the 20th century air power has also been used to enhance the effectiveness of the blockade by halting air traffic within the blockaded airspace.\n\nClose patrol of hostile ports, in order to prevent naval forces from putting to sea, is also referred to as a blockade. When coastal cities or fortresses were besieged from the landward side, the besiegers would often blockade the seaward side as well. Most recently, blockades have sometimes included cutting off electronic communications by jamming radio signals and severing undersea cables.\n\nAlthough primitive naval blockades had been in use for millennia, the first successful attempts at establishing a full naval blockade were made by Admiral of the Fleet Edward Hawke during the Seven Years' War (1754-1763). Following the British naval victory at Quiberon Bay, which ended any immediate threat of a major invasion of the British Isles, the British implemented a tight economic blockade on the French coast. This began to starve French ports of commerce, further weakening France's economy. Hawke took command of the blockading fleet off Brest and extended the blockade of the French coast from Dunkirk to Marseilles. The British were able to take advantage of the Navy's position to develop plans for amphibious landings on the coast. However, these plans were eventually abandoned, due to the formidable logistical challenge this would have posed.\n\nThe strategic importance of the blockade was cemented during the Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars, during which successful blockades on France were imposed by the Royal Navy, leading to major economic disruptions. The Union blockade of southern ports was a major factor in the American Civil War, as was the failure of the U-boat blockade in World War I and again in World War II.\n\nJulian Corbett and Admiral Mahan emphasized that naval operations were chiefly to be won by decisive battles and blockade.\n\nA \"close\" blockade entails placing warships within sight of the blockaded coast or port, to ensure the immediate interception of any ship entering or leaving. It is both the most effective and the most difficult form of blockade to implement. Difficulties arise because the blockading ships must remain continuously at sea, exposed to storms and hardship, usually far from any support, and vulnerable to sudden attack from the blockaded side, whose ships may stay safe in harbor until they choose to come out.\n\nIn a \"distant\" blockade, the blockaders stay well away from the blockaded coast and try to intercept any ships going in or out. This may require more ships on station, but they can usually operate closer to their bases, and are at much less risk from enemy raids. This was almost impossible prior to the 16th century due to the nature of the ships used.\n\nA \"loose\" blockade is a close blockade where the blockading ships are withdrawn out of sight from the coast (behind the horizon) but no farther. The object of loose blockade is to lure the enemy into venturing out but to stay close enough to strike.\n\nBritish admiral Horatio Nelson applied a loose blockade at Cádiz in 1805. The Franco-Spanish fleet under Pierre-Charles Villeneuve then came out, resulting in the Battle of Trafalgar.\n\nUntil 1827, blockades, as part of economic warfare, were always a part of a war. This changed when France, Russia and Britain came to the aid of the Greek rebels against Turkey. They blockaded the Turkish-occupied coast, which led to the battle of Navarino. War was never declared, however, so it is considered the first \"pacific\" — i.e. peaceful — blockade. The first truly pacific blockade, involving no shooting at all, was the British blockade of the Republic of New Granada in 1837, established to compel New Granada to release an imprisoned British consul.\n\nSince 1945, the UN Security Council determines the legal status of blockades and by article 42 of the UN Charter, the Council can also apply blockades. The UN Charter allows for the right of self-defense but requires that this must be immediately reported to the Security Council to ensure the maintenance of international peace.\n\nAccording to the not ratified document San Remo Manual on International Law Applicable to Armed Conflicts at Sea, 12 June 1994, a blockade is a legal method of warfare at sea but is governed by rules. The manual describes what can never be contraband. The blockading nation is free to select anything else as contraband in a list, which it must publish.\n\nThe blockading nation typically establishes a blockaded area of water, but any ship can be inspected as soon as it is established that it is attempting to break the blockade. This inspection can occur inside the blockaded area or in international waters, but never inside the territorial waters of a neutral nation. A neutral ship must obey a request to stop for inspection from the blockading nation. If the situation so demands, the blockading nation can request that the ship divert to a known place or harbour for inspection. If the ship does not stop, then the ship is subject to capture. If people aboard the ship resist capture, they can be lawfully attacked.\n\nWhether or not a blockade was seen as lawful depended on the laws of the nations whose trade was influenced by the blockade. The Brazilian blockade of Río de la Plata in 1826 during the Cisplatine War, for instance, was considered lawful according to British law but unlawful according to French and American law. The latter two countries announced they would actively defend their ships against Brazilian blockaders, while Britain was forced to steer for a peaceful solution between Brazil and Argentina.\n\nThere are a number of protest actions with the specific aim of cutting off material, people or communications from a particular area by non-violence, either in part or totally. The effectiveness of such blockades rely on the principles of nonviolent resistance especially the participation of people and lock-on techniques.\n\nA sit-down strike is a form of civil disobedience in which an organized group of workers, usually employed at a factory or other centralized location, take possession of the workplace by \"sitting down\" at their stations, effectively preventing their employers from replacing them with strikebreakers. A non-violent picket is another example; it also illustrates the specificity of the blockade, non-violent pickets may demand the blocking of some traffic while allowing other traffic; e.g. workers but not the customers, or customers but not workers.\n\nThe Mau movement was a non-violent movement for Samoan independence from colonial rule during the early 1900s. Amongst other actions, participants formed their own \"police force\", picketing stores in Apia to prevent the payment of customs to the authorities.\nSome other examples are the perimeter blockade by human chain at Greenham Common Women's Peace Camp, the blockade of the Franklin River dam site, and the Keystone Pipeline.\n\nBlockades depend on four general factors:\n\n\nBlockade running is the practice of delivering cargo (food, for example) to a blockaded area. It has mainly been done by ships (called blockade runners) across ports under naval blockade. Blockade runners were typically the fastest ships available and often lightly armed and armored.\n\nHowever, it is now also been done by aircraft, forming airbridges, such as over the Berlin blockade after World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "86728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86728", "title": "Bodleian Library", "text": "Bodleian Library\n\nThe Bodleian Library () is the main research library of the University of Oxford, and is one of the oldest libraries in Europe. With over 12 million items, it is the second-largest library in Britain after the British Library. Under the \"Legal Deposit Libraries Act 2003\" it is one of six legal deposit libraries for works published in the United Kingdom and under Irish Law it is entitled to request a copy of each book published in the Republic of Ireland. Known to Oxford scholars as \"Bodley\" or \"the Bod\", it operates principally as a reference library and, in general, documents may not be removed from the reading rooms.\n\nIn 2000, a number of libraries within the University of Oxford were brought together for administrative purposes under the aegis of what was initially known as Oxford University Library Services (OULS), and since 2010 as the Bodleian Libraries, of which the Bodleian Library is the largest component.\n\nAll colleges of the University of Oxford have their own libraries, which in a number of cases were established well before the foundation of the Bodleian, and all of which remain entirely independent of the Bodleian. They do, however, participate in OLIS (Oxford Libraries Information System), the Bodleian Libraries' online union catalogue. Much of the library's archives were digitized and put online for public access in 2015.\n\nThe Bodleian Library occupies a group of five buildings near Broad Street: the 15th-century Duke Humfrey's Library, the 17th-century Schools Quadrangle, the 18th-century Clarendon Building and Radcliffe Camera, and the 20th and 21st-century Weston Library. Since the 19th century a number of underground stores have been built, while the principal off-site storage area is located at South Marston on the edge of Swindon.\n\nBefore being granted access to the library, new readers are required to agree to a formal declaration. This declaration was traditionally an oral oath, but is now usually made by signing a letter to a similar effect. Ceremonies in which readers recite the declaration are still performed for those who wish to take them; these occur primarily at the start of the University's Michaelmas term. External readers (those not attached to the University) are still required to recite the declaration orally prior to admission. The Bodleian Admissions Office has amassed a large collection of translations of the declaration — covering over one hundred different languages as of spring 2017 — allowing those who are not native English speakers to recite it in their first language. The English text of the declaration is as follows:\n\nThis is a translation of the traditional Latin oath (the original version of which did not forbid tobacco smoking, though libraries were then unheated because fires were so hazardous):\n\nWhilst the Bodleian Library, in its current incarnation, has a continuous history dating back to 1602, its roots date back even further. The first purpose-built library known to have existed in Oxford was founded in the fourteenth century under the will of Thomas Cobham, Bishop of Worcester (d. 1327). This small collection of chained books was situated above the north side of the University Church of St Mary the Virgin on the High Street. This collection continued to grow steadily, but when Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester (brother of Henry V of England) donated a great collection of manuscripts between 1435 and 1437, the space was deemed insufficient and a larger building was required. A suitable room was finally built above the Divinity School, and completed in 1488. This room continues to be known as Duke Humfrey's Library. After 1488, the university stopped spending money on the library's upkeep and acquisitions, and manuscripts began to go unreturned to the library.\n\nThe late sixteenth century saw the library go through a period of decline: the library’s furniture was sold, and only three of the original books belonging to Duke Humphrey remained in the collection. During the reign of Edward VI, there was a purge of \"superstitious\" (Catholic-related) manuscripts. It was not until 1598 that the library began to thrive once more, when Thomas Bodley (a former fellow of Merton College, who had recently married a wealthy widow) wrote to the Vice Chancellor of the University offering to support the development of the library: \"where there hath bin hertofore a publike library in Oxford: which you know is apparent by the rome it self remayning, and by your statute records I will take the charge and cost upon me, to reduce it again to his former use.\" Six of the Oxford University dons were tasked with helping Bodley in refitting the library in March 1658. Duke Humfrey’s Library was refitted, and Bodley donated a number of his own books to furnish it. The library was formally re-opened on 8 November 1602 under the name “Bodleian Library” (officially Bodley's Library). There were around two thousand books in the library at this time, with an ornate Benefactor's Register displayed prominently, to encourage donations. Early benefactors were motivated by the recent memory of the Reformation to donate books in the hopes that they would be kept safe.\n\nBodley’s collecting interests were varied; according to the library's historian Ian Philip, as early as June 1603 he was attempting to source manuscripts from Turkey, and it was during “the same year that the first Chinese book was acquired.”, despite no-one at Oxford being able to understand them at that time. In 1605, Francis Bacon gave the library a copy of The Advancement of Learning and described the Bodleian as \"an Ark to save learning from deluge\". At this time, there were few books written in English held in the library, partially because academic work was not done in English. Thomas James suggested that Bodley should ask the Stationers' Company to provide a copy of all books printed to the Bodleian and in 1610 Bodley made an agreement with the company to put a copy of every book registered with them in the library. The Bodleian collection grew so fast that the building was expanded between 1610–1612, (known as the Arts End) and again in 1634–1637. When John Selden died in 1654, he left the Bodleian his large collection of books and manuscripts. The later addition to Duke Humfrey’s Library continues to be known as the \"Selden End\".\n\nBy 1620, 16,000 items were in the Bodleian's collection. Anyone who wanted to use the Bodleian had to buy a copy of the 1620 library catalogue at a cost of 2 shillings and 8 pence.\n\nBy the time of Bodley’s death in 1613, his planned further expansion to the library was just starting. The Schools Quadrangle (sometimes referred to as the \"Old Schools Quadrangle\", or the \"Old Library\") was built between 1613 and 1619 by adding three wings to the Proscholium and Arts End. Its tower forms the main entrance to the library, and is known as the Tower of the Five Orders. The Tower is so named because it is ornamented, in ascending order, with the columns of each of the five orders of classical architecture: Tuscan, Doric, Ionic, Corinthian and Composite.\n\nThe three wings of the quadrangle have three floors: rooms on the ground and upper floors of the quadrangle (excluding Duke Humfrey’s Library, above the Divinity School) were originally used as lecture space and an art gallery. The lecture rooms are still indicated by the inscriptions over the doors (see illustration). As the library’s collections expanded, these rooms were gradually taken over, the University lectures and examinations were moved into the newly created University Schools building. The art collection was transferred to the Ashmolean. One of the schools was used to host exhibitions of the library’s treasures, now moved to the renovated Weston Library, whilst the others are used as offices and meeting rooms for the library administrators, a readers' common room, and a small gift shop.\n\nThe agreement with the Stationers' Company meant that the growth of stock was constant and there were also a number of large bequests and acquisitions for other reasons. Until the establishment of the British Museum in 1753 the Bodleian was effectively the national library of England. By then the Bodleian, Cambridge University Library and the Royal Library were the most extensive book collections in England and Wales.\n\nThe astronomer Thomas Hornsby observed the transit of Venus from the Tower of the Five Orders in 1769.\n\nA large collection of medieval Italian manuscripts was bought from Matteo Luigi Canonici in 1817. In 1829, the library bought the collection of Rabbi David Oppenheim, adding to its Hebrew collection.\n\nBy the late 18th century, further growth of the library demanded more expansion space. In 1860, the library was allowed to take over the adjacent building, known as the Radcliffe Camera. In 1861, the library’s medical and scientific collections were transferred to the Radcliffe Science Library, which had been built farther north next to the University Museum.\n\nThe Clarendon Building was designed by Nicholas Hawksmoor and was built between 1711 and 1715, originally to house the printing presses of the Oxford University Press. It was vacated by the Press in the early nineteenth century, and used by the university for administrative purposes. In 1975 it was handed over to the Bodleian Library, and now provides office and meeting space for senior members of staff.\n\nIn 1907 the then head librarian, Nicholson, had begun a project to revise the catalogue of printed books. In 1909, the Prime Minister of Nepal, Chandra Shum Shere, donated a large collection of Sanskrit literature to the library.\n\nIn 1911, the Copyright Act (now superseded by the Legal Deposit Libraries Act 2003) continued the Stationers' agreement by making the Bodleian one of the six (at that time) libraries covering legal deposit in the United Kingdom where a copy of each book copyrighted must be deposited.\n\nBetween 1909 and 1912, an underground bookstack was constructed beneath the Radcliffe Camera and Radcliffe Square. In 1914, the total number of books in the library’s collections breached the 1 million mark. By 1915, only one quarter of the revised catalogue had been completed, a task made more difficult by library staff going into the war effort, either serving in the armed forces or by volunteering to serve in the hospitals. In July 1915 the most valuable books had been moved into a secret location due to a fear that Oxford would be bombed, and a volunteer fire brigade was trained and ready, but Oxford escaped the First World War without being bombed. By the 1920s, the Library needed further expansion space, and in 1937 building work began on the New Bodleian building, opposite the Clarendon Building on the northeast corner of Broad Street.\n\nThe New Bodleian was designed by architect Sir Giles Gilbert Scott. Construction was completed in 1940. The building was of an innovative ziggurat design, with 60% of the bookstack below ground level. A tunnel under Broad Street connects the Old and New Bodleian buildings, and contains a pedestrian walkway, a mechanical book conveyor and a pneumatic Lamson tube system which was used for book orders until an electronic automated stack request system was introduced in 2002. The Lamson tube system continued to be used by readers requesting manuscripts to be delivered to Duke Humfrey’s Library until it was turned off in July 2009. In 2010, it was announced that the conveyor, which had been transporting books under Broad Street since the 1940s, would be shut down and dismantled on 20 August 2010. The New Bodleian closed on 29 July 2011.\n\nThe New Bodleian building was rebuilt behind its original façade to provide improved storage facilities for rare and fragile material, as well as better facilities for readers and visitors. The new building concept was designed by Wilkinson Eyre Architects and the MEP design was undertaken by engineering consultancy Hurley Palmer Flatt. It reopened to readers as the Weston Library on 21 March 2015. In March 2010 the group of libraries known collectively as \"Oxford University Library Services\" was renamed \"The Bodleian Libraries\", thus allowing those Oxford members outside the Bodleian to acquire the gloss of the Bodleian brand. The building was nominated for the 2016 Sterling Prize.\n\nIn November 2015 its collections topped 12 million items with the acquisition of Shelley's \"POETICAL ESSAY on the EXISTING STATE OF THINGS\". Thought lost from shortly after its publication in 1811 until a copy was rediscovered in a private collection in 2006, the Bodleian has digitised the 20-page pamphlet for online access. The controversial poem and accompanying essay are believed to have contributed to the poet's expulsion from Oxford University.\n\nThe library operates a strict policy on copying of material. Until fairly recently, personal photocopying of library material was not permitted, as there was concern that copying and excessive handling would result in damage. However individuals may now copy most material produced after 1900, and a staff-mediated service is provided for certain types of material dated between 1801 and 1900. Handheld scanners and digital cameras are also permitted for use on most post-1900 publications and digital cameras may also be used, with permission, with older material. The Library will supply digital scans of most pre-1801 material. Microform copies have been made of many of the most fragile items in the library's collection, and these are substituted for the originals whenever possible. The library has a close relationship with the Oxford Digital Library, which is in the process of digitising some of the many rare and unusual items in the University's collection.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe head of the Bodleian Library is known as \"Bodley's Librarian\". The first librarian, Thomas James, was selected by Bodley in 1599, and the university confirmed James in his post in 1602. Bodley wanted his librarian to be \"some one that is noted and known for a diligent Student, and in all his conversation to be trusty, active, and discreet, a graduate also and a Linguist, not encumbered with marriage, nor with a benefice of Cure\", although James was able to persuade Bodley to let him get married and to become Rector of St Aldate's Church, Oxford.\n\nIn all, 25 have served as Bodley's Librarian; their levels of diligence have varied over the years. Thomas Lockey (1660–1665) was regarded as not fit for the post, John Hudson (1701–1719) has been described as \"negligent if not incapable\", and John Price (1768–1813) was accused by a contemporary scholar of \"a regular and constant neglect of his duty\".\n\nSarah Thomas, who served from 2007 to 2013, was the first woman to hold the position, and the second Librarian (after her predecessor, Reginald Carr) also to be Director of Oxford University Library Services (now Bodleian Libraries). Thomas, an American, was also the first foreign librarian to run the Bodleian. Her successor from January 2014 is Richard Ovenden, who was Deputy Librarian under Thomas.\n\nThe Bodleian is used as background scenery in Dorothy L. Sayers \"Gaudy Night\", features in Michael White's \"Equinox\", and is one of the libraries consulted by Christine Greenaway (one of Bodley's librarians) in Colin Dexter's Inspector Morse novel \"The Wench is Dead\". The denouement of Michael Innes's \"Operation Pax\" (1951) is set in an imaginary version of the underground bookstack, reached at night by sliding down the 'Mendip cleft', a chute concealed in Radcliffe Square.\n\nSince J. R. R. Tolkien had studied philology at Oxford and eventually became a professor, he was very familiar with the Red Book of Hergest which is kept at the Bodleian on behalf of Jesus College. Tolkien later created his own fictional \"Red Book of Westmarch\" telling the story of \"The Lord of the Rings\". Many of Tolkien's manuscripts are now at the library.\n\nHistorian and novelist Deborah Harkness, set much of the early part of her 2011 novel, \"A Discovery of Witches\", in the Bodleian, particularly the Selden End. The novel also features one of the library's Ashmolean manuscripts (Ashmole 782) as a central element of the book.\n\nMedieval historian Dominic Selwood set part of his 2013 crypto-thriller \"The Sword of Moses\" in Duke Humfrey's library, and the novel hinges on the library's copy of a magical medieval Hebrew manuscript known as 'The Sword of Moses'.\n\nThe Library's fine architecture has made it a favourite location for filmmakers, representing either Oxford University or other locations. It can be seen in the opening scene of \"The Golden Compass\", \"Brideshead Revisited\" (1981 TV serial), \"Another Country\" (1984), \"The Madness of King George III\" (1994), and the first two \"Harry Potter\" films, in which the Divinity School doubles as the Hogwarts hospital wing and Duke Humfrey's Library as the Hogwarts library. In \"The New World\" (2005), the library edifice is portrayed as the entrance to the Royal Court of the English monarchy. The Bodleian also featured in the Inspector Morse televised spin off \"Lewis\", in the episode \"And the Moonbeams Kiss the Sea\", where a murder takes place in the basement. It also featured in the episode \"Fugue\" of the Inspector Morse televised spin off \"Endeavour\" as the answer to an anagrammatic clue left by a serial killer for the young Morse.\n\nThe first few words of the Latin version of the reader's promise noted above (\"Do fidem me nullum librum vel\") can be found on the linguist's hat in the 1996 miniseries \"Gulliver's Travels\". It is also quoted in an inscription in the Phillips Exeter Academy Library.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11415191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11415191", "title": "Copyright Term Directive", "text": "Copyright Term Directive\n\nDirective 2006/116/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on the term of protection of copyright and certain related rights (codified version) is a consolidated version of the former EU Directive harmonising the term of copyright protection, including all amendments made up to and including 2006. It replaces the text of the older directive.\n"}
{"id": "5123821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5123821", "title": "Day-night average sound level", "text": "Day-night average sound level\n\nThe day-night average sound level (Ldn or DNL) is the average noise level over a 24-hour period. The noise between the hours of 10pm and 7am is artificially increased by 10 dB. This noise is weighted to take into account the decrease in community background noise of 10 dB during this period. There is a similar metric called Day-Evening-Night average sound level (DENL) commonly used in Europe or Community Noise Exposure Level (CNEL) used in California legislation, that is the DNL with the addition of an evening period from 7 PM to 10 PM when noises are boosted 5 dB to account for the approximate decrease in background community noise by 5 dB during this period. \n\nIn the US, The Federal Aviation Administration has established this measure as a community noise exposure metric to aid airport noise analyses under Federal Aviation Regulation Part 150 The FAA says that a maximum day-night average sound level of higher than 65 dB is incompatible with residential communities. Communities in affected areas may be eligible for mitigation such as soundproofing.\n\n"}
{"id": "15551594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15551594", "title": "Decree Law 25418", "text": "Decree Law 25418\n\nDecree Law 25418 is a highly controversial Peruvian law decreed in April 1992 by then-President Alberto Fujimori. The decree essentially provided the legal trappings for the coup d'état of April 5, 1992.\n\nThe decree renamed the government, dissolved the Congress, gave the Executive Branch all legislative powers, suspended much of the Constitution, and gave the president the power to enact various reforms, such as the \"application of drastic punishments\" towards terrorists and the \"moralization\" of the Judicial Branch.\n\nAlthough Decree Law 25418 was patently unconstitutional, its last article read \"the articles of the Political Constitution and the legal norms that oppose this Decree Law are suspended,\" giving the decree theoretical supremacy over the Constitution. The Peruvian Congress rejected this claim and swore Máximo San Román, Fujimori's Vice President, into the presidency, but San Roman did not gain control over the state apparatus and was never the de facto president. \n\n"}
{"id": "21961443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21961443", "title": "Decree against Communism", "text": "Decree against Communism\n\nThe Decree Against Communism was a 1949 Catholic Church document issued by the Supreme Sacred Congregation of the Holy Office, and approved by Pope Pius XII, which declared Catholics who professed Communist doctrine to be excommunicated as apostates from the Christian faith.\n\nOpposition to Socialism and Communism in Catholic social teaching had already been expressed in the teachings of popes since the encyclicals \"Nostis et nobiscum\" (1849), \"Quanta cura\" (1864), and \"Rerum novarum\" (1891).\n\nIn the earlier social encyclicals the criticism of Communism described it as a system violating human rights: e.g., the right to own property. After revolutions in Russia, China, and Mexico had been followed by religious persecution, a new theme of criticism was added, beginning with \"Quadragesimo anno\" (1931) by Pope Pius XI. This encyclical objected to Communism's professed opposition to religion, and its threat to the freedom and the very existence of the Church. In 1937, Pius XI rejected atheistic communism in an encyclical entitled Divini Redemptoris as \"a system full of errors and sophisms\", with a \"pseudo-ideal of justice, equality, and fraternity\" and \"a certain false mysticism\", and contrasted it with a humane society (\"civitas humana\").\n\nAfter the Italian parliamentary election of April 1948, in which the Communist-Socialist coalition won 31% of the vote, the Holy Office began to study the issue of Communism in order to give guidance to Catholic lay people and clergy with questions about support for Communist parties.\n\nAn additional impulse for Vatican action against Communism arose in Czechoslovakia, where the Communist government, installed by a \"coup d'état\" in February 1948, undertook a campaign to take control of the Catholic Church by several means. Among other measures, it created an organization of priests favorable to the regime, took control of church finances, and demanded that pastoral letters to the faithful or the clergy be approved by government ministries.\n\nOn July 15, 1948, \"L’Osservatore Romano\" published a decree which excommunicated those who propagate \"the materialistic and anti-Christian teachings of Communism\". The document, however, did not mention the Italian Communist Party, which had changed its statutes in 1946, removing an explicit profession of Marxism-Leninism, and opening to participation by citizens, \"independent of race, religious faith or philosophical convictions\".\n\nIn the spring of 1949, pressure on the Church in Czechoslovakia was increasing, and, according to Fr. Giovanni Battista Montini, then papal Secretary of State, Pope Pius XII had come to feel that there would be no effective diplomatic opposition from the West. Thus the Church had to use what means it had to confront Communism, not only in the immediate situation, but for a long-term opposition.\n\nThe document, as published in the \"Acta Apostolicae Sedis\", bears the date July 1, 1949 and the heading \"Decretum\" (Decree), and is presented in the form of a \"dubium\": that is, in question-and-answer format. It presents four questions, together with the Holy Office's replies: (1) Is it licit to join or show favor to Communist parties? (2) Is it licit to publish, distribute, or read publications that support Communist doctrine or activity, or to write for them? (3) May Christians who knowingly and freely commit the acts in parts 1 and 2 be given the sacraments? (4) Do Christians who profess, defend or promote materialistic Communist doctrine incur the penalty of excommunication as apostates from the Christian faith, with the penalty reserved so that it may only be lifted by the Holy See?\n\nThe answers in the decree were negative to the first three questions and affirmative to the fourth.\n\nAfter the document was approved by Pius XII on June 30, the text of the document was delivered to printers to prepare its release. Shortly thereafter it was leaked to the press, and so appeared in public early, with no advance notice to the clergy and no commentary to explain the document.\n\nThe decree was published in the Vatican newspaper L'Osservatore Romano on July 16, 1949. A commentary followed on July 27, 1949, explaining reasons for its condemnation of Communist activity and doctrine. It also made clear the scope of the excommunication stated in the decree: it did not apply to all people who voted for Communists or supported the party, but only to people who held the materialistic and atheistic doctrines of Communism.\n\nThe Decree met with some surprising public support despite the disorder around its publication: from Protestant countries there was favorable commentary which recognized the decree as a response to Communist pressure on the Church in Eastern Europe. The United States urged the Patriarch of Constantinople Athenagoras, who supported the decree, to issue a similar document for the Orthodox world.\n\nResponse from pro-Communist newspapers in Italy was sharply critical, but the Soviet press was silent. Italian Communist Party General Secretary Palmiro Togliatti was restrained in his criticism, inasmuch as many party supporters were practicing Catholics.\n\nIn the wake of the Decree Pope Pius XII encouraged efforts to develop Catholic social teaching and thus counteract the appeal of Communist social doctrine. The Decree marked the beginning of a long institutional conflict between Catholicism and Communism. The Holy Office issued later documents condemning Communism:\n\nA further \"dubium\" dated April 4, 1959 from the Holy Office made the provisions of the 1949 Decree more specific, stating that it implied a prohibition on voting for parties that were helping Communists, even if such parties themselves had inoffensive doctrines or even called themselves Christian.\n\n"}
{"id": "46637491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46637491", "title": "Deferred tax uncertainty", "text": "Deferred tax uncertainty\n\nUncertain Tax Position refers to the uncertainties involving tax items claimed or intended to be claimed on an income tax return with a taxing authority. Companies will often take less than certain positions regarding the amount of tax expense they have to pay and/or the amount of tax benefit they are receiving. These uncertain tax positions may be the result of unclear tax law or uncertainties regarding their own circumstances.\n\nBecause of the difference in treating the uncertainties, the Financial Accounting Standards Board {FASB) issued in 2006 Interpretation No. (FIN) 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” to standardize the accounting for uncertain tax positions (now covered in FASB ASC 740).\n"}
{"id": "10284111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10284111", "title": "Earth jurisprudence", "text": "Earth jurisprudence\n\nEarth jurisprudence is a philosophy of law and human governance that is based on the idea that humans are only one part of a wider community of beings and that the welfare of each member of that community is dependent on the welfare of the Earth as a whole. It states that human societies will only be viable and flourish if they regulate themselves as part of this wider Earth community and do so in a way that is consistent with the fundamental laws or principles that govern how the universe functions, which is the ‘Great Jurisprudence’.\n\nEarth jurisprudence can be differentiated from the Great jurisprudence, but can also be understood as being embedded within it. Earth jurisprudence can be seen as a special case of the Great Jurisprudence, applying universal principles to the governmental, societal and biological processes of Earth.\n\nEarth jurisprudence seeks to expand our understanding of the relevance of governance beyond humanity to the whole Earth community, it is Earth-centric rather than anthropocentric. It is concerned with the maintenance and regulation of relations between all members of the Earth community, not just between human beings. Earth jurisprudence is intended to provide a philosophical basis for the development and implementation of human governance systems, which may include ethics, laws, institutions, policies and practices. It also places an emphasis on the internalisation of these insights and on personal practice, in living in accordance with Earth jurisprudence as a way of life.\n\nEarth jurisprudence should reflect a particular human community's understanding of how to regulate itself as part of the Earth community and should express the qualities of the Great jurisprudence of which it forms part. The specific applications of Earth jurisprudence will vary from society to society, while sharing common elements. These elements include:\n\n\nThe need for a new jurisprudence was first identified by Thomas Berry who identified the destructive anthropocentrism on which existing legal and political structures are based as a major impediment to the necessary transition to an ecological age in which humans would seek a new intimacy with the integral functioning of the natural world.\n\nThe feasibility of developing this jurisprudence (by then provisionally referred to as ‘Earth jurisprudence’) was discussed at meeting attended by Berry in April 2001, organised by the Gaia Foundation in London at the Airlie Conference Center outside Washington. A group of people involved in the law and with indigenous peoples came together from South Africa, Britain, Colombia, Canada and the United States. (See 'Thomas Berry and an Earth Jurisprudence: An Exploratory Essay', by Mike Bell, \"The Trumpeter\", Vol. 19, no. 1 (2003)). \n\nThe first detailed exploration of Earth jurisprudence in print and the introduction of the term ‘Great Jurisprudence’ occurred with the first publication of \"Wild Law\" by Cormac Cullinan, launched at the World Summit for Sustainable Development in Cape Town 2002.\n\n2004 workshop\nApril 2004, first UK workshop held to discuss and develop the principles of Earth jurisprudence, titled 'Wild Law Wilderness Workshop: A Walking Workshop on Earth Jurisprudence'. Donald Reid (former chairman of UKELA, the UK Environmental Law Association) and Cormac Cullinan (author of \"Wild Law\") lead the workshop in the Knoydart Peninsula (one of the last true wilderness areas in the Scotland).\n\nThe feasibility of developing a new form of jurisprudence was discussed at a conference in Washington attended by Thomas Berry in April 2001, organised by the Gaia Foundation. A group of people involved with law and indigenous peoples attended from South Africa, Britain, Colombia, Canada and the United States.\n\nIn 2006 the first Center for Earth Jurisprudence established in Florida. The mission of the Centre, which is co-sponsored by Barry and St. Thomas Universities, Florida, is to re-envision law and governance in ways that support the well being of the Earth community as a whole. This involves fostering mutually enhancing relationships among humans and nature and recognition of the rights of nature.\n\nEarth jurisprudence UK conference held in November 2006, 'A Walk on the Wild Side: Changing Environmental Law'. Based on the book \"Wild Law\" by Cormac Cullinan. Held at the University of Brighton and organised jointly by UKELA and ELF. Chaired by John Elkington (of SustainAbility and the ELF Advisory Council) with guest speakers, Cormac Cullinan, Norman Baker MP (former Liberal Democrat Environment Spokesman), Satish Kumar (Resurgence) and Begonia Filgueira (Gaia Law Ltd).\n\nReferences:\n\nEarth jurisprudence open meeting, a formal evening of talk and discussion on 'Law and Governance from an Earth-Centred Perspective', November 2006. With Patricia Siemen, Director of the Center for Earth Jurisprudence, and colleagues Margaret Galiardi and Herman Greene. Liz Hosken, Director of the Gaia Foundation, gave a brief overview of the latest initiatives to further Earth jurisprudence thinking globally, as increasingly, given the rapidly deteriorating state of the planet, this idea of law is guiding and inspiring a number of legal departments in different parts of the world, from Ethiopia and Ghana, to the United States. Meeting chaired by Ian Mason, Head of Law and Economics at the School of Economic Science, London, and organised by the Gaia Foundation. Held at Denning Hall, north London.\n\n2007 events \n“Earth Jurisprudence: Defining the Field and Claiming the Promise”, a three-day colloquium on the principles and implications of the emerging field of Earth Jurisprudence. Cormac Cullinan of EnAct International, South Africa, Thomas Linzey and Richard Grossman both of Community Environmental Legal Defense Fund, Pennsylvania, and Liz Hosken of Gaia Foundation, London, are amongst the speakers at the new Centre for Earth Jurisprudence in Florida, USA, April 2007.\n\nUK conference and workshop, September 2007, entitled, “A ‘Wild Law’ Response to Climate Change”. A participatory event to develop a practical approach for applying Wild Law principles which are already helping shift legal processes in the US and South Africa. Organised by UK Environmental Law Association, in partnership with the Environmental Law Foundation and the Gaia Foundation, with funding from the Body Shop Foundation. Internationally renowned speakers will include Andrew Kimbrell, Executive Director of the Center for Food Safety, Pennsylvania, who helped win a Supreme Court case in the USA on climate change; Cormac Cullinan, the South African lawyer and author of \"Wild Law\"; and Peter Roderick, Director of the Climate Justice Programme UK, a barrister with twenty years’ experience in private practise, the oil industry, academia and the public interest environmental sector, and was Friends of the Earth’s lawyer in London from 1996. Held at a conference centre in Derbyshire, UK.\n\nReferences: UKELA next events.\n\nAn Earth Jurisprudence conference held in the US in February 2008, in collaboration with the new Center for Earth Jurisprudence, and with students from Barry University Law School (Orlando, FL) and St. Thomas University Law School (Miami, FL).\n\nEARTH JURISPRUDENCE IN AUSTRALIA\n\nAustralia has a very active Earth jurisprudence and 'wild law' movement. The first wild law conference in Australia was held in Adelaide, South Australia in 2009 and a second conference was held in Wollongong, New South Wales, in 2010. A third Wild Law conference was organised in 2011 in Brisbane, Queensland and at that time a core group of Earth jurisprudence advocates formed the Australian Earth Laws Alliance (www.earthlaws.org.au). The Australian Earth Laws Alliance is the leading organisation in Australia promoting Earth laws and wild law. For information about their projects, members, conferences and events, please visit their website.\n\nThe first law school course in Earth Jurisprudence was taught at Barry University School of Law during the Spring term 2007, by Professor Sister Patricia Siemen, Esquire, Director of the Center for Earth Jurisprudence and adjunct faculty at Barry School of Law.\n\nThe Queens University of Belfast School of Law is introducing a half-module on human rights and wild law approaches to the protection of the environment as part of its LLM programmes in 2013-14. http://www.law.qub.ac.uk/\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4912802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4912802", "title": "Edict of Paris", "text": "Edict of Paris\n\nThe Edict of Paris of Chlothar II, the Merovingian king of the Franks, promulgated 18 October 614 (or perhaps 615), is one of the most important royal instruments of the Merovingian period in Frankish history and a hallmark in the history of the development of the Frankish monarchy. It is the last of the Merovingian \"capitularia\", a series of legal ordinances governing church and realm. \n\nThe Edict was decreed hard on the heels of the canons promulgated at the Fifth Synod of Paris, to which it should be compared. Chlothar had recently assumed the full kingship of the Franks, in 613, when he deposed his cousin Sigebert II, king of Austrasia, and his regent, his great-grandmother Brunhilda. The Edict has been commonly seen as a series of concessions to the Austrasian nobility, which had sided with him against Brunhilda. In \"Der Staat des hohen Mittelalters\", Heinrich Mitteis compared the Edict to the English Magna Carta. More popular now is the belief that it was primarily aimed at correcting abuses which had entered the judicial system during the civil wars which had dominated the kingdom since the beginning of the feud of Brunhilda with Chlothar's mother, Fredegund (568). It cannot be known how much of the Edict's language and ideas stem from the king and his officers and courtiers and how much from the nobles. Some of its clauses were designed to amend decisions of the prelates at the synod that had just finished sitting. The bishops insisted upon freedom in the choice of bishops, but Chlothar modified the council's decisions by insisting that only the bishops he wanted, or those sent from amongst suitable priests at court, should be ordained. \n\nThe Edict throughout attempts to establish order by standardising orderly appointments to offices, both ecclesiastic and secular, and by asserting the responsibilities of all—the magnates, bishops, and the king—to secure the happiness and peace of the realm: the \"felicitas regni\" and \"pax et disciplina in regno\". Among the true concessions granted by the Edict were the ban on Jews in royal offices, leaving all such appointments to the Frankish nobility, the granting of the right to bishops of deposing poor judges (if the king was unable at the time), and certain tax cuts and exemptions. Despite the exclusion of Jews from high office, their right to bring legal actions against Christians was preserved. Similarly, the right of a woman not to be married against her will was affirmed. \n\nThe most famous of the twenty seven clauses of the Edict is almost certainly number twelve, in which Chlothar says in part that \"nullus iudex de aliis provinciis aut regionibus in alia loca ordinetur\", meaning that judges should be appointed only within their own regions. It has been interpreted as a concession, granting the magnates more control over appointments and the king less ability to influence, and conversely as a piece of anti-corruption legislation, intended to ease the penalisation of corrupt officers.\n\nThe Edict of Paris remained in force during the reign of his successor, Dagobert.\n\n"}
{"id": "49661396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49661396", "title": "Emergency Price Control Act of 1942", "text": "Emergency Price Control Act of 1942\n\nThe Emergency Price Control Act of 1942 is a United States statute imposing an economic intervention as restrictive measures to control inflationary spiraling and pricing elasticity of goods and services while providing economic efficiency to support the United States national defense and security. The Act of Congress established the Office of Price Administration (OPA) as a federal independent agency being officially created by Franklin D. Roosevelt on April 11, 1941.\n\nThe H.R. 5990 legislation was passed by the 77th U.S. Congressional session and enacted into law by Franklin D. Roosevelt on January 30, 1942.\n\nThe Emergency Price Control Act was penned as three titles specifying rulings for price controls regarding agricultural commodities, goods and services, and real property. The Act provided authority for enforcement, investigative reporting, and reviews of price stabilization schedules by the Office of Price Administration. The law specified a time limit whereas orders, price schedules, regulations, and requirements by the Act were to terminate by June 30, 1943.\n\nThe Emergency Price Control Act engendered significant controversy regarding delegation of Congressional power, executive wartime authority, and Congressional control of federal jurisdiction. Much of this stemmed from the Act's creation of the Emergency Court of Appeals, an Article III court which had all \"the powers of a district court with respect to the jurisdiction conferred on it,\" except it lacked the ability to issue temporary restraining orders or interlocutory decrees that would stay the effectiveness of any order, regulation, or price schedule issued by the Price Administrator of the Act. The Emergency Court had exclusive jurisdiction to hear complaints relating to actions of the Administrator \"except\" those relating to enjoining violations of the act/securing orders of compliance, treble damage actions, and criminal prosecutions for willful violations. For these, the Emergency Court shared jurisdiction with state courts. If anyone disagreed with an action taken by the Administrator (such as a price set), she would file a protest with the Administrator and if that was denied, she had thirty days to file a complaint with the Emergency Court. She could not file in any other district court, and the Emergency Court decisions were appealleable directly to the Supreme Court.\n\nTwo important cases--\"Lockerty v. Phillips\", 319 U.S. 182 (1943), and \"Yakus v. United States\", 321 U.S. 414 (1944)--continue to inform understandings of the relationship between Congress and the federal judiciary system. \n\nFederal Courts is the study of the relationship between state courts, federal courts, and the other branches of government. The Emergency Price Control Act and the associated Emergency Court of Appeals raised several questions about the relationship between Congress and the Federal Judiciary: (1) Can Congress \"carve up\" federal jurisdiction in this way? (2) If yes, is the creation of the Emergency Court--with all its limits--constitutional? To both questions, the Supreme Court answered yes, though its understanding of the relationship between the legislative and judicial branches may have been informed by the exigencies of war.\n\nIn \"Lockerty v. Phillips\", 319 U.S. 182 (1943), several wholesale meat sellers sued to prevent the US Attorney from prosecuting them if they violated the price regulations. Among many arguments, one was that Congress lacked the authority to \"carve up\" jurisdiction in this form. Pursuant to the Act, the district court dismissed the action for lack of jurisdiction. The Supreme Court affirmed the dismissal, writing that \"[t]he Congressional power to ordain and establish inferior courts includes the power of investing them with jurisdiction either limited, concurrent, or exclusive, and of withholding jurisdiction from them in exact degrees and character which to Congress may seem proper for the public good.\" That is, what Congress can give--federal courts--Congress can take away, and therefore, limit as well, even if it was by issue.\n\nPlaintiffs also argued that the Emergency Court was inadequate to protect their constitutional rights because the Emergency Court could not issue interlocutory relief. However, the Court declined to discuss whether the Emergency Court served as an adequate constitutional rights protector, noting that the Act had a severability clause that, in the event of the interlocutory relief section being found unconstitutional, other provisions would take effect, thus saving the Act. \n\nTo understand this question, it is necessary to understand a bit about Article III. Article III does not \"require\" Congress to create lower federal courts, but when Congress does--as they did in the Judiciary Act of 1789, establishing the federal court system we know today--they are subject to limitations emanating from Article III and other constitutional provisions. For example, Congress cannot prohibit all African Americans from bringing a lawsuit, as this would independently violate Equal Protection under the 14th Amendment. In addition, Congress potential could not, for example, allow discrimination cases to only be filed in-person in the District Court of Puerto Rico, as this might substantially burden the ability of citizens to assert their constitutional rights. \n\nPlaintiffs in \"Lockerty\" also argued that the Emergency Court was inadequate to protect their constitutional rights because the Emergency Court could not issue interlocutory relief. However, the Court declined to discuss whether the Emergency Court served as an adequate constitutional rights protector, noting that the Act had a severability clause that, in the event of the interlocutory relief section being found unconstitutional, other provisions would take effect, thus saving the Act. \n\nThe Court did discuss the constitutionality of the Emergency Court's limits in \"Yakus v. United States\", 321 U.S. 414 (1944). While in \"Lockerty\" the Emergency Price Control Act was attacked \"offensively\", in \"Yakus\", the plaintiff--also a meat producer--had already been found to violate the Act. He was prosecuted under the Act with the potential for a criminal action. Yakus sought to raise the same issues as the plaintiffs in \"Lockerty\" (non-delegation--discussed below--due process (the inadequacy of the Emergency Court), and that the price was set too low), but does so by way of defenses for his action. \n\nThe \"Yakus\" Court treated as the central issue to the case whether the Emergency Court review procedure \"affords to those affected a reasonable opportunity to be heard and present evidence.\" Writing for the Court, Chief Justice Stone found that the Act did, and that there was \"no denial of due process\" in the statutory provisions that denied the ability of the Emergency Court to grant, among other things, temporary stays or injunctions. This was especially so because the alternatives (wartime inflation or requiring individuals to comply with a price regulation while its validity was still being determined), \"Congress could constitutionally make the choice in favor of the protection of the public interest from the dangers of inflation.\" \n\n\"Yakus\" also questioned the constitutionality of the Emergency Price Control Act with respect to the nondelegation doctrine, which governs when Congress can assign work to non-legislative bodies, such as the executive or judicial branches, and which work and to whom such work can be assigned. The resulting holding--which many believed to be in error--would alter American administrative jurisprudence for almost fifty years. \n\nThe holding in \"Yakus\" was a major development of American nondelegation law. Chief Justice Stone argued that an administrative agency could self-correct a problem of delegation if it limited its own power:The standards prescribed by the present Act, with the aid of the \"statement of the considerations\" required to be made by the Administrator, are sufficiently definite and precise to enable Congress, the courts and the public to ascertain whether the administrator, in fixing the designated prices, has conformed to those standards . . . Hence we are unable to find in them an unauthorized delegation of legislative power. 321 U.S. at 426.Thus, \"Yakus\" held that an administrative agency could \"save\" an otherwise \"unconstitutional\" delegation of power through a narrowing construction constraining that agency's own discretion. This would become a key principle in American constitutional law and would be followed by lower courts in striking down challenges to laws based on the nondelegation doctrine for the next fifty years. The \"Yakus\" principle was logically flawed however: how could an administrative agency \"itself\" cure a problem of delegation? The problem of delegation is one of excessive legislative power transferred to the executive branch--the delegation problem happens at the time of the passage of the statute. The act of an executive agency limiting that power is too late and does not correct the problem (it really only limits the problem). Allowing the agency to correct a delegation problem is liking locking the barn doors after all the horses have already escaped.\n\nThe Supreme Court came to this conclusion in \"Whitman v. American Trucking Associations, Inc.\". In so doing, Justice Scalia denied that the Supreme Court had ever adopted such a stance on constitutional law: \"We have never suggested that an agency can cure an unlawful delegation of legislative power by adopting in its discretion a limiting construction of the statute.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "284216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284216", "title": "Extrajudicial punishment", "text": "Extrajudicial punishment\n\nExtrajudicial punishment is punishment for an alleged crime or offense carried out without legal process or supervision from a court or tribunal through a legal proceeding. Such actions are carried out by state actors.\n\nExtrajudicial punishment is often a feature of politically repressive regimes, but even self-proclaimed or internationally recognized democracies have been known to use extrajudicial punishment under certain circumstances.\n\nAlthough the legal use of capital punishment is generally decreasing around the world, individuals or groups deemed threatening—or even simply \"undesirable\"—to a government may nevertheless be targeted for punishment by a regime or its representatives. Such actions typically happen quickly, with security forces acting on a covert basis, performed in such a way as to avoid a massive public outcry and/or international criticism that would reflect badly on the state. Sometimes, the killers are agents outside the government. Criminal organizations, such as La Cosa Nostra, have reportedly been employed for such a purpose.\n\nAnother possibility is for uniformed security forces to punish a victim, but under circumstances that make it appear as self-defense or suicide. The former can be accomplished by planting recently fired weapons near the body, the latter by fabricating evidence suggesting suicide. In such cases, it can be difficult to prove that the perpetrators acted wrongly. Because of the dangers inherent in armed confrontation, even police or soldiers who might strongly prefer to take an enemy alive may still kill to protect themselves or civilians, and potentially cross the line into extrajudicial murder.\n\nA forced disappearance (or enforced disappearance) occurs when a person is secretly abducted or imprisoned by a state or political organization or by a third party with the authorization, support, or acquiescence of a state or political organization, followed by a refusal to acknowledge the person's fate and whereabouts, with the intent of placing the victim outside the protection of the law.\n\nExtrajudicial punishment may be planned and carried out by a particular branch of a state, without informing other branches, or even without having been ordered to commit such acts. Other branches sometimes tacitly approve of the punishment after the fact. They can also genuinely disagree with it, depending on the circumstances, especially when complex intragovernmental or internal policy struggles also exist within a state's policymaking apparatus.\n\nIn times of war, natural disaster, societal collapse, or in the absence of an established system of criminal justice, there may be increased incidences of extrajudicial punishment. In such circumstances, police or military personnel may be unofficially authorised to punish severely individuals involved in looting, rioting and other violent acts, especially if caught \"in flagrante delicto\". This position is sometimes itself corrupted, resulting in the death of merely \"inconvenient\" persons, that is, relative innocents who are just in the wrong place at the wrong time.\n\nThe NKVD troika and Special Council of the NKVD are examples from the history of the Soviet Union, where extrajudicial punishment \"by administrative means\" was part of the state policy. Other Soviet Bloc secret police organizations like the East German Stasi, Romanian Securitate have also used it from time to time.\n\nMost Latin American dictatorships have regularly instituted extrajudicial killings of their enemies; for one of the better-known examples, see \"Operation Condor.\"\n\nSome consider the killing of Black Panther Fred Hampton to have been an extrajudicial killing ordered by the United States government. Also, the US has been accused of exercising a covert prison system set up by the CIA in several countries, especially Egypt, to evade US jurisdiction.\n\nThe deaths of the leaders of the leftist urban guerrilla group, the Red Army Faction, Ulrike Meinhof, Andreas Baader, Gudrun Ensslin and Jan-Carl Raspe in West Germany are regarded as extrajudicial killings by some of those in the German radical left movements, a theory partly based on the testimony of Irmgard Möller.\n\nDuring the apartheid years South Africa's security forces were also accused of using extrajudicial means to deal with their political opponents. After his release, Nelson Mandela would refer to these acts as proof of a Third Force. This was denied vehemently by the administration of F.W. de Klerk. Later the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, led by Archbishop Desmond Tutu would find that both military and police agencies such as the Civil Cooperation Bureau and C10 based at Vlakplaas were guilty of gross human rights violations. This led the International Criminal Court to declare apartheid a crime against humanity.\n\nIn Mainland China, a system of administrative detentions called Re-education through labor (\"láodòng jiàoyǎng\" 劳动教养, abbreviated láojiào 劳教) is used to detain persons for minor crimes such as petty theft, prostitution, and trafficking illegal drugs for periods of up to four years. Re-education through labor sentences are given by police, rather than through the judicial system.\n\nFor many years, the Jamaican Constabulary Force has been noted for its extrajudicial killings. With 140 police killings in a population of 3 million, \"Jamaica’s police force [is] among the deadliest in the world\".\n\nIt has been discussed that the use of psychiatric treatments to reduce unwanted behaviors can be seen as extrajudical punishments, due to many side-effects associated to these treatments.\n\nThe US has been known to employ extrajudicial tactics including Extraordinary Rendition, the term \"torture by proxy\" is used by some critics to describe situations in which the CIA and other US agencies have performed such rendition techniques upon suspected terrorists by transferring them to countries known to utilize torture. It has been claimed that torture has been employed with the knowledge or acquiescence of US agencies (a transfer of anyone to anywhere for the purpose of torture is a violation of US law), although Condoleezza Rice (then the United States Secretary of State) stated that:\n\nthe United States has not transported anyone, and will not transport anyone, to a country when we believe he will be tortured. Where appropriate, the United States seeks assurances that transferred persons will not be tortured.\n\nThe CIA has been accused of operating secret detention and interrogation centres known as black sites. These are allegedly located in countries other than the US, thus evading US laws as they are outside US jurisdiction.\n\nAn alleged code red case in the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base was the central theme in the award-winning Hollywood movie \"A Few Good Men\" starring Tom Cruise and Jack Nicholson.\n\nMany human rights organisations like Amnesty International are campaigning against extrajudicial punishment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14576762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14576762", "title": "Francesco D'Andrea", "text": "Francesco D'Andrea\n\nFrancesco D'Andrea (1625–1698) was an Italian jurist and natural philosopher.\n\nBorn to a patrician family in Naples, he worked as an advocate after obtaining his doctorate in law in 1641. He was active in philosophical circles, including in the Accademia degli Investiganti, which sought to promote modern natural philosophy and the thought of Descartes. In 1688, he was named a judge on the Vicaria tribunal, and later served as a legal advisor to the Neapolitan crown.\n\nD'Andrea's legal writings focused on issues of constitutional law in the context of the Kingdom of Naples. He is best remembered for the \"Avvertimenti ai nipoti\" (1696), a collection of philosophical and practical advice for lawyers, and for the \"Apologia in difesa degli atomisti\" (1685), an influential apology of atomism.\n"}
{"id": "26149775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26149775", "title": "Freedom of testation", "text": "Freedom of testation\n\nFreedom of testation is the power of a person to make a will and testament specifying whatever heirs they please. It is historically associated with English common law, and contrasted with forced heirship, where part or all of the estate is automatically inherited by the next of kin. Opponents of absolute freedom of testation have pointed to the possibility of a widow or orphan being left destitute while property of a spouse or parent is bequeathed to others. Some opponents of inheritance tax have characterized it as an abrogation of freedom of testation.\n\nAfter the Norman conquest of England, the Christian church succeeded in allowing a person to leave part of his property to the church to use them as funds for its activities.\n\nIn law of the Republic of Ireland, the Succession Act 1965 reduces freedom of testation by guaranteeing provision for the spouse and children of the deceased.\n"}
{"id": "17633624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17633624", "title": "Geneva Conventions (Amendment) Act 1995", "text": "Geneva Conventions (Amendment) Act 1995\n\nGeneva Conventions (Amendment) Act 1995 (c27) made provision for the amendment of the United Kingdom's Geneva Conventions Act 1957 to enable the addition of Protocol I and Protocol II to the Geneva Conventions of 1949, to be incorporated into the law of England (and Wales), Scotland, Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and British colonies.\n"}
{"id": "21747203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21747203", "title": "German Renewable Energy Sources Act", "text": "German Renewable Energy Sources Act\n\nThe Renewable Energy Sources Act or EEG () is a series of German laws that originally provided a feed-in tariff (FIT) scheme to encourage the generation of renewable electricity. The specified the transition to an auction system for most technologies which has been finished with the current version EEG 2017.\n\nThe EEG first came into force on 1April 2000 and has been modified several times since. The original legislation guaranteed a grid connection, preferential dispatch, and a government-set feed-in tariff for 20years, dependant on the technology and size of project. The scheme was funded by a surcharge on electricity consumers, with electricity-intensive manufacturers and the railways later being required to contribute as little as 0.05¢/kWh. For 2017, the unabated EEG surcharge is . In a study in 2011, the average retail price of electricity in Germany, among the highest in the world, stood at around .\n\nThe EEG was preceded by the Electricity Feed-in Act (1991) which entered into force on 1January 1991. This law initiated the first green electricity feed-in tariff scheme in the world. The original EEG is credited with a rapid uptake of wind power and photovoltaics (PV) and is regarded nationally and internationally as an innovative and successful energy policy measure. The act also covers biomass (including cogeneration), hydroelectricity, and geothermal energy.\n\nA significant revision to the EEG came into effect on 1August 2014. The prescribed feed-in tariffs will soon be gone for most technologies. Specific deployment corridors now stipulate the extent to which renewable electricity is to be expanded in the future and the funding rates will no longer be set by the government, but will be determined by auction. Plant operators will market their production directly and will receive a market premium to make up the difference between the their bid price and the average monthly spot market price for electricity. The EEG surcharge remains in place to cover this shortfall. This new system is being rolled out in stages, starting with ground-mounted photovoltaics. More legislative revisions were scheduled for introduction on 1January 2017.\n\nThe current EEG has been criticized for setting the deployment corridors (see table) too low to meet Germany's long-term climate protection goals, particularly given the likely electrification of the transport sector. The government target for the share of renewables in power generation is at least 80% by 2050.\n\nThe pioneer EEG (spanning 2001–2014) and its predecessor the Electricity Feed-in Act (1991) (spanning 1991–2001) class as feed-in tariff (FIT) schemes, a policy mechanism designed to accelerate the uptake of renewable energy technologies. The scheme offers long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, based on the cost of generation of the particular technology in question. In addition, a grid connection and preferential dispatch are also guaranteed. The tariffs (\"Einspeisevergütungen\") themselves are funded by a levy or surcharge (\"EEG-Umlage\") on electricity consumers, with electricity-intensive manufacturers being largely exempted. The EEG surcharge is based on the difference between the specified feed-in tariffs paid under the EEG and the sale of the renewable energy at the EEX energy exchange by the grid operators (also known as transmission system operators or TSO). , the TSOs comprise 50Hertz Transmission, Amprion, Tennet TSO, and .\n\nAmendments to the original EEG added the concept of a market premium in 2012. And the use of deployment corridors and auctions to set the levels of uptake and remuneration, respectively, in 2014.\n\nThe EEG has generally been regarded as a success. The EEG (2000) led to the particularly rapid uptake of two renewable energy technologies: wind power and photovoltaics. The high growth of photovoltaics in Germany is set against its relatively poor solar resource. As the US NREL observed:\n\nThe share of electricity from renewable energy sources has risen dramatically since the introduction of the EEG in 2000. The average annual growth rate is around 9billion kWh and almost all of this increase is due to electricity generation that qualifies for EEG payments. The EEG is also responsible for 88.3 Mt eq of avoided emissions in 2014, thus making a significant contribution to Germany's climate protection targets. The following table summarizes the remarkable uptake of renewables and in particular photovoltaics:\n\nUnder the legislation, hydropower includes \"wave, tidal, salinity gradient and marine current energy\". The use of biomass for electricity generation has also grown as a result of the EEG. Biomass includes: \"biogas, biomethane, landfill gas and sewage treatment gas and from the biologically degradable part of waste from households and industry\". Mine gas is in a separate category.\n\nGermany's national energy policy is set out in the government's \"Energy Concept\" released on 28September 2010. On 6June 2011, following Fukushima, the government removed the use of nuclear power as a bridging technology and reintroduced a nuclear phase-out. Boosting renewable electricity generation is an essential part of national policy (see table).\n\nThe EEG is also a key element in the implementation of EU Directive 2009/28/EC on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. This directive requires Germany to produce 18% of its gross final energy consumption (including heat and transport) from renewable energy sources by 2020. In this endeavour, the EEG is complemented by the Renewable Energies Heat Act (\"Erneuerbare-Energien-Wärmegesetz\" or \"EEWärmeG\"). A chart overviewing German energy legislation in 2016 is available.\n\nThe first discussions on feed-in tariffs in the German parliament began in the 1980s. The (SFV), Eurosolar, and the (BDW) floated early concepts for a FIT scheme. The Economics Ministry and the CDU/CSU and FDP parties opposed non-market measures and argued for voluntary renewables quotas instead. In the late 1980s, CDU/CSU and Green politicians drafted a feed-in tariff bill and sought parliamentary and external support. The newly formed Environment Ministry backed the proposal. The incumbent electricity producers did not devote much effort to counter the bill because they believed its effects would be minimal and their lobby effort was preoccupied with the takeover of the East German electricity system following German reunification in 1989. The bill became the Electricity Feed-in Act (1991).\n\nPrior to the Electricity Feed-in Act, operators of small power plants could only obtain access to the grid at the behest of the grid owners and were sometimes refused entirely. Remuneration was based on the averted costs faced by the energy utilities, yielding low rates and unattractive investment conditions. Government support for renewable electricity before the act was primarily through R&D programs administered by the Federal Ministry for Research and Technology (BMFT).\n\nGermany first began promoting renewable electricity using feed-in tariffs with the Electricity Feed-in Act (\"Stromeinspeisungsgesetz\" or \"StrEG\"). The long title is the law on feeding electricity from renewable energy sources into the public grid. The law entered into force on 1January 1991. This legislation was the first green electricity feed-in tariff scheme in the world. The law obliged grid companies to connect all renewable power plants, to grant them priority dispatch, and pay them a guaranteed feed-in tariff over 20years.\n\nWhile the Electricity Feed-in Act did much to promote wind power, the installed capacity of photovoltaic installations remained low (see table). The remuneration for photovoltaics was simply too little in most settings. Low-interest loans were then offered under additional government programs.\n\nBeginning in 1998, the Electricity Feed-in Act was challenged under European Union anti-subsidy rules by PreussenElektra (an E.ON predecessor). The European Court of Justice (ECJ) found that the arrangements did not constitute state aid. The court concluded:\n\nThe Electricity Feed-in Act suffered from structural flaws. First, the coupling of feed-in tariffs to the electricity price proved too volatile to ensure investment security. Second, the distribution of burdens was uneven, with grid operators in high-wind regions having to pay out more. In light of this latter concern, the act was amended in 1998 to introduce, among other things, a double 5% cap on feed-in purchases. This ceiling slowed uptake in some regions.\n\nThe Electricity Feed-in Act was enacted by a CDU/CSU/FDP coalition government.\n\nThe Electricity Feed-in Act was replaced by the Renewable Energy Sources Act (2000), also known as the EEG (2000), and came into force on 1April 2000. The legislation is available in English. The long title is an act on granting priority to renewable energy sources. The three principles of the act are:\n\n\nUnlike the preceding Electricity Feed-in Act, feed-in tariffs were now specified in absolute terms and no longer tied to the prevailing electricity price. The tariffs also differentiated between scale (larger plants received less) and electricity yield (wind turbines in low-wind areas received more). The new tariffs were based on cost-recovery plus profit and increased substantially. For instance, photovoltaic remuneration rose from 8.5¢/kWh to a maximum of 51¢/kWh. Offshore wind, geothermal energy, and mine gas were included for the first time. The concept of an annual reduction or 'degression' was introduced, with annual degression rates varying between 1% for biomass and 5% for photovoltaics. Photovoltaics installations were capped at 350MW to control costs (later raised to 1000MW in 2002 and removed in 2004).\n\nThe new act introduced a nationwide compensation scheme with the aim of spreading the remuneration burden on grid operators across all electricity utilities. This included a new EEG surcharge (\"EEG-Umlage\") to fund the feed-in remunerations. The previous double-5% cap was duly removed.\n\nThe new act also introduced the (\"100.000-Dächer-Programm\"). This ran until 2003 and offered low-interest loans for photovoltaic installations below 300MW. It proved highly successful in combination with the FIT scheme and led to a rapid increase in photovoltaic capacity.\n\nThe first EEG amendment, effective from 16July 2003, introduced the 'special equalisation scheme' (\"Besondere Ausgleichsregelung\"), designed to unburden electricity-intensive industries from the rising EEG surcharge. To be eligible, companies had to fulfil the following criteria: electricity consumption of more than 100GWh/a, electricity expenses of more than 20% of gross value added, and a considerable impairment of competitiveness. Exempted firms pay only 0.05¢/kWh. As a result, non-privileged consumers faced a higher EEG surcharge. Arbitration on eligibility was by the Federal Office of Economics and Export Control (\"Bundesamt für Wirtschaft und Ausfuhrkontrolle\").\n\nThe EEG was built on experience gained under the Electricity Feed-in Act. Without the prior act, the EEG would not have been as sophisticated or as far reaching. Notwithstanding, the Economics Ministry remained hostile to the concept of feed-in tariffs and refused to help with legal drafting.\n\nAn SPD/Greens coalition government, elected in 1998, paved the way for the reform of the Electricity Feed-in Act to give the EEG (2000).\n\nThe PV Interim Act (2003) raised photovoltaic tariffs from 1January 2004 and in particular for small rooftop installations, to compensate for the ending of low-interest loans under the expiring 100,000 roofs program. The limit on free-standing photovoltaic systems exceeding 100kW and the 1000MW cap on photovoltaic installations in total were both removed.\n\nAn amended version of the EEG came into force on 1August 2004. While the basic framework remained unchanged, this act introduced a substantially modified and differentiated tariff structure, to better match the economic viabilities of the technologies concerned. Tariffs for biomass, photovoltaics, and geothermal energy were increased. Detailed measures were introduced to deal with market complexities, windfall profits, and the incentives for innovation and cost reduction. Eligible projects may no longer degrade ecologically sensitive areas. Exemptions for industry from the EEG surcharge under the special equalization scheme were extended considerably. The minimum electricity consumption requirement was reduced to 10GWh/a, the share of electricity costs relative to gross value added was reduced to 15%, and the impairment of competitiveness criteria was removed altogether. Railways were now automatically exempt, being regarded as an environmentally friendly form of transport.\n\nRenewable targets were now defined in the act for the first time: 12.5% for the share of renewable energy in gross final electricity consumption by 2010 and at least 20% by 2020.\n\nThus the EEG (2004) resulted in significantly better conditions for photovoltaics, biomass (including small farm systems and new technologies), offshore wind, and geothermal energy, while onshore wind and small hydroelectric plant largely retained their former standing. The new special equalization scheme lead to wider benefits for industry. Only about 40 companies complied under the previous rules, mostly from the chemical, steel, and metals industries. That number climbed to between 120 and 350 with the new rules.\n\nThe European Union Emission Trading Scheme (EUETS) entered into effect on 1January 2005. Many industry lobbyists argued that the emissions trading transcended the need for a renewable electricity feed-in tariff scheme and that the EEG should therefore be scrapped. In December 2005 the European Commission released a report preferring feed-in tariffs for national renewable electricity support.\n\nThe 2004 legislation was overseen by an SPD/Greens coalition government.\n\nThe 2009 amendments were undertaken alongside a boom in renewable electricity uptake. In 2009, renewables accounted for 16.3% of total electricity generation, up from 9.3% in 2004. Over the same period, the EEG surcharge climbed from 0.54¢/kWh to 1.32¢/kWh. For further context, the European Union climate and energy package, approved on 17December 2008, contained a year 2020 national target for Germany of 18% renewable energy in its total energy consumption.\n\nThe 2009 amendments yielded improvements for the entire range of renewables, increased the renewables target considerably, introduced new sustainability criteria for bioenergy, and extended industry privileges. Flexible degression rates were also introduced, which can now be adjusted without reference to the Bundestag. The legislation came into force on 1January 2009.\n\nMore specifically, the photovoltaic tariffs were reduced somewhat, but not enough to affect uptake. The degression for PV was tightened from 5% to 8–10%, depending on the size of installation. A new 'self-consumption incentive' granted a fixed tariff of 25.01¢/kWh for electricity consumed by a PV operator within their own house. A 'flexible degression cap' was introduced, under which the degression rate could be adjusted to keep the uptake of photovoltaics within a specified corridor. The support for onshore wind improved. The initial tariff was raised, the repowering (when old turbines are replaced by new) bonus (\"Repoweringbonus\") was increased, and an additional system service bonus was granted for specified technical contributions (\"Systemdienstleistungen\" or \"SDL\"), including the ability to maintain voltage if the transmission grid fails. The tariff for offshore wind was raised substantially. An additional 'early starter bonus' was offered for offshore wind farms entering operation before 2015. In parallel to the EEG, a separate loan program of €5 billion was established, to be administered by the state-owned KfW bank, with the goal of reaching 25GW installed capacity for wind by 2030. Support of biomass was also increased, with special bonuses for a number of different biomass types. Biomass must also comply with specified ecological requirements to be eligible, these requirements being contained in a separate 'sustainability ordinance' (\"Nachhaltigkeitsverordnung\" or \"BioSt-NachV\"). The hydroelectricity tariffs were raised considerably and particularly for micro and small power plants. The tariffs for geothermal energy were raised considerably too, as was the cogeneration bonus. An additional 'early starter bonus' was introduced for geothermal projects put into operation before 2016. A 'green power privilege' (\"Grünstromprivileg\") was introduced, which exempted electricity suppliers with a minimum quota of renewables from the EEG surcharge under certain circumstances. New measures allowed grid operators to temporarily limit wind turbine output in times of network congestion, with compensation payable to the plant owner for lost remuneration.\n\nThe renewable targets in the new law were increased to at least 35% (previously 20%) of total electricity production by 2020, 50% by 2030, 65% by 2040, and 80% by 2050.\n\nThe 2009 legislation was overseen by a CDU/CSU/SPD grand coalition government.\n\nThe government launched its national \"Energy Concept\" in September 2010. This represents a significant milestone in the development of energy policy in Germany. On 6June 2011, following Fukushima, the government removed the use of nuclear power as a bridging technology as part of their policy.\n\nIt was becoming clear that action on the photovoltaic remuneration was necessary. The growth in photovoltaics had exceeded all expectations. In 2009 alone, MW of capacity was installed. As a result, the support costs had skyrocketed.\n\nThe government responded with the PV Act (2010) which entered into force retrospectively with effect from 1July 2010. The legislation introduced a dramatic reduction in photovoltaic tariffs, cutting these between 8 and 13% depending on the installation type, followed by a second cut of 3%. The deployment corridor was doubled to between 2500 and 3500MW, along with tighter growth-dependant degression rates of 1–12%, in addition to the ordinary degression of 9%. The self-consumption incentive was significantly raised to around 8¢/kWh and eligibility extended to systems up to 500kW. The feed-in rate itself was dependent on the system size and the proportion of demand that was consumed on-site. Free-standing systems were excluded from using agricultural land.\n\nThe PV Interim Act (2011) introduced the possibility of further downward adjustments for the photovoltaic tariffs during the year. If the installed capacity during the first months of the year exceeded the equivalent of 3,500 MW per year, feed-in tarifffs would be lowered by 1July 2011 for rooftop systems and 1September 2011 for free-standing systems. It also modified the flexible cap to better control the growth of photovoltaics.\n\nIn application of the EEG (2009) version in force at the time, no further adjustment to the feed-in tariffs occurred in 2011. This is explained because the installed capacity between 28 February 2011 and 1 June 2011 was less than 875 MW (which multiplied by 4, is below the 3,500 MWp threshold).\n\nThe act was again modified and came into force on 1January 2012. The new EEG sought to advance the dynamic expansion of renewable electricity generation, control the rising costs associated with the scheme, and enhance market and grid integration, while adhering to the principles of a feed-in system. The revised system includes a market premium scheme, the market premium was intended to prepare renewables for the market and to eventually lower their dependence on explicit policy measures.\n\nThe rising shares of variable renewable generation had led to concerns about the ability of the electricity system to cope. The new act included measures for the grid integration of photovoltaic systems. Grid operators could now limit the feed-in of photovoltaics in times of grid overload, with the plant operators receiving compensation for their loss of revenue. A new ordinance required the retrofitting of photovoltaic systems to avoid the 50.2Hz problem – the risk of widespread blackouts as PV systems simultaneously tripped in the face of frequencies above 50.2Hz. Free-standing photovoltaic systems on nature conservation areas were excluded from remuneration. The tariff structure for onshore wind was basically maintained, but the degression was tightened from 1% to 1.5% to incentivize efficiency improvements. The system services bonus for onshore wind was extended and the repowering bonus was improved. Offshore wind gained through improved early starter provisions. The start of the degression was postponed until 2018, but increased from 5% to 7%. Starter tariffs were increased but now last 8 rather than 12years. Biomass tariffs were lowered by 10–15% on average, particularly for small systems. The biomass tariff system itself was greatly simplified, with now four size categories and two fuel categories. The degression for biomass was increased from 1% to 2%. The tariffs for hydroelectricity were simplified, the funding period now uniformly 20years, and the degression rate set at 1%. The tariffs for geothermal energy were raised and the start of the degression postponed until 2018, albeit at an increased rate. Electricity storage facilities were fully exempted from grid charges and are to be supported by a special research program.\n\nIndustry privileges under the special equalisation scheme were extended to include more companies and the tariff reductions further improved. The eligibility requirements were lowered from 10GWh/a to 1GWh/a and the electricity expenses threshold in terms of gross value added lowered from 15% to 14%. As a result, the number of exempt firms rose from 734 in 2012 to about 2057 in 2013. The exempted electricity load rose from 84.7TWh to 97TWh, a relatively modest increase due to the smaller sizes of the newly exempted firms.\n\nIndustrial self-consumption, previously exempted from the EEG surcharge, was now subject to the surcharge if the public grid was used, except in special circumstances. This measure was aimed at preventing abuse through contracting.\n\nThe introduction of an optional market premium was designed to support demand-oriented electricity generation. The market premium is the difference between the EEG tariff and the average spot market price. An additional management premium reimbursed administration costs and mitigated against market risks. For large biogas plants over 750kW, the use of direct marketing was made compulsory from 2014 onwards. An additional flexibility premium was introduced for gas storage at biogas facilities. The details of the market premium were to be provided in a following governmental directive, following parliamentary approval.\n\nThe green power privilege was also modified. Energy suppliers whose portfolio comprised more than 50% EEG-funded renewables had their surcharge reduced by 2¢/kWh, previously they had been fully exempt. In addition, a minimum share of 20% of fluctuating sources, namely wind and PV, was required.\n\nThe renewables targets remained unchanged and are identical to those specified in the 2010 \"Energy Concept\".\n\nIn 2013, after numerous complaints, the European Commission opened an in-depth state aid investigation into the EEG surcharge exemptions for energy-intensive companies and into the green power privilege. The Commission nonetheless accepted that the underlying feed-in tariff and market premium schemes were compliment. On 10May 2016 the EU General Court sided with the Commission and determined that the EEG (2012) involved state aid as indicated. (The next EEG (2014) was specifically designed to resolve these difficulties.)\n\nThe 2012 legislation was overseen by a CDU/CSU/FDP coalition government.\n\nDespite the cutbacks in photovoltaic support, photovoltaic installations continued to boom. In December 2011 alone, 3000MW were added in an effort to beat the tariff reductions beginning in 2012. Moreover, the EEG surcharge had grown to 3.53¢/kWh for 2011, with the largest component being photovoltaic remuneration. The EEG surcharge was projected to grow considerably, despite the falling tariff structure. For the first time, cost control became the \"determining factor\" in the political debate over the EEG.\n\nThis was despite the fact that the merit order effect had been depressing electricity spot prices. The merit order effect occurs when preferentially dispatched wind and photovoltaic generation displaces more expensive fossil fuel generation from the margin – often gas-fired combined cycle plant – thereby driving down the cleared price. This effect is more pronounced for photovoltaics because their midday peak correlates with the maximum generation requirement on the system. The merit order effect also lowers the revenues for conventional power plants and makes them less economically viable. A 2007 study finds that \"in the case of the year 2006, the volume of the merit order effect exceeds the volume of the net support payments for renewable electricity generation which have to be paid by consumers\". A 2013 study estimates the merit order effect of both wind and photovoltaic electricity generation for the years 2008–2012: the combined merit order effect of wind and photovoltaics ranges from 0.5¢/kWh in 2010 to more than 1.1¢/kWh in 2012.\n\nThe PV Act (2013) came into force retrospectively on 1April 2012. The tariff cuts were up to 30%, with the tariff cuts scheduled in the EEG (2012) for 1July 2012 advanced and tightened from their original 15%. The system size categories were changed, now up to 10, 40, 1000, and kW. A new category of 10–40kW was introduced, while free-standing systems were limited to 10MW. The regular standard degression was set to 1% per month, equal to 11.4% per year, and replacing the previous six-monthly adjustment. The flexible cap for the deployment corridor remained unchanged at 2500 to 3500MW per year. If new additions exceed this corridor, the degression rises by 1.0% up to 2.8%. A hard cap on the total photovoltaic capacity was introduced, set at 52GW. The self-consumption privilege was removed for new installations, as grid parity was already met: the feed-in tariff for roof systems at 19.5¢/kWh was now lower than the average electricity price for households at 23¢/kWh. Changes to the market integration model reduced the eligibility for remuneration of systems between 10 and 1000kW to 90% of their electricity production from 2014 onwards. The residual electricity could either be self-consumed or sold on the electricity market.\n\nThe EEG (2014) is sometimes known as the EEG2.0 due to its marked departure from earlier legislation. This revision took effect from 1August 2014. The act is available in English. The act requires operators of new plant to market their electricity themselves. In turn they receive a market premium from the grid operator to compensate for the difference between the fixed EEG payment and the average spot price for electricity. The act also paved the way for a switch from specified feed-in tariffs to a system of tendering.\n\nThe purpose of the EEG (2014) is stated in the legislation:\n\nThe EEG (2014) also contains statutory targets for the share of renewable energy in gross final electricity consumption (the targets are additional to those set out in the government's 2010 \"Energy Concept\" statement):\n\nThe EEG (2014) specifies binding trajectories for the following individual technologies:\n\nThe level of remuneration is still prescribed under the EEG until 2017. However the way that new installations receive their remuneration has changed. Most plant operators must now directly market their output, for which they get an additional market premium payment instead of an explicit feed-in tariff. This premium is the difference between the average monthly wholesale price at the EEX energy exchange and the fixed remuneration stated in the EEG. Installations under 100kW are exempt from these provisions and existing installations will continue to operate under the rules under which they were established. From 2014–2017 onwards, defined remuneration rates will be replaced by competitive bidding, also known as auctions or tenders. Those investors offering the lowest prices will then receive support. The new act does not specify the auction model in detail, but potential designs were piloted in 2015 using ground-mounted photovoltaic systems.\n\nThe flexible cap mechanism for expansion corridors was replaced with set annual targets for the addition of wind, photovoltaic, and biogas capacity. The government hopes these new corridors will lead to a better coordination between renewables and the use and expansion of the transmission network, as well as improving planning security for conventional generators.\n\nThe target corridor for photovoltaics is set at 2.4 to 2.6GW per year and the hard cap of 52GW (introduced in 2013) remains in place. Photovoltaic installations beyond this upper bound will not receive funding under the EEG. The remuneration for photovolatic installations is reduced 0.50 percent every month, unless the installed capacity in the preceding months is below or above the installed capacity target. The degression rate can increase or decrease according to the deviation from the 2,500 MW goal during the twelve months prior to the beginning of each quarter. The corresponding degression rate is then used during the three months of the quarter, in the following way:\n\n\nOnshore wind retained its annual target of 2.4 to 2.6GW. However the target now excludes repowering, effectively extending the growth cap. The management premium and the bonus paid to wind farms providing stabilizing features (\"Systemdienstleistungen\") are now being phased out. From 2016 onwards, the onshore wind tariff is reduced quarterly, depending on whether new capacity tracks the prescribed target. For offshore wind, the new act defines a target of 6.5GW by 2020 and 15GW by 2030. Offshore wind farms that entered service before 2020 can choose between a fixed payment for 8 years or a reduced payment for 12 years. After this period, the basic reward is reduced still further, depending on the distance from shore and the depth of the sea. The biomass target is set at 0.1GW per year. Only biogas plants that use biowaste and liquid manure will receive more than the standard remuneration, depending on their capacity. Tariffs are to be reduced by 0.5% on a three-monthly basis for new installations.\n\nOn 16April 2014 the European Commission found that EEG (2014) support for 20 offshore wind farms totalling almost 7GW was not state aid. On 23July 2014 the European Commission approved the EEG (2014), having assessed it to be in line with EU rules on state aid. Indeed, the EEG (2014) was the first revision of the Renewable Energy Sources Act to be \"materially shaped by the Commission's view on state aid\".\n\nIn July 2015 the Economics and Energy Ministry (BMWi) released a design document covering renewables auctions. In early 2016 the BMWi reported that the ground-mounted photovoltaics tender pilot, comprising three auction in 2015, was successful. The BMWi also stated that the competition was high and that prices fell from round to round. It added that small bidders were able to win tenders. These results will be used to develop auctions for other renewable electricity generation technologies.\n\nThe sixth and last round of PV auctions under this particular legislation produced 27successful bids totaling . The average successful price was and the lowest awarded price was . These figures confirm a falling trend from auction to auction.\n\nThe 2014 legislation was overseen by a CDU/CSU/SPD grand coalition government.\n\nThe government began again to update of the EEG, first dubbed the EEG (2016), now the EEG (2017). The revised act is slated to take effect from 1January 2017.\n\nThe following explains some of the process prior to the final legislation. On 8December 2015 the government released its proposals for reform. On 8June 2016 the Federal Cabinet (\"Bundeskabinett\") cleared the draft EEG (2016) bill. That bill will now go to the Bundestag and Bundesrat for consideration.\n\nThe reform is being driven by three guiding principles, namely the need:\n\n\nThe government believes that the new auction system will control costs. The new system also accords with the desire of the European Commission for renewables support to be market-based. With regard to wind energy, the new rules are intended to encourage installations in sites with strong winds and across Germany. To this end, a suite of complex calculations (\"Referenzertragsmodell\") are being developed to ensure that bids are comparable and payments are fair.\n\nThe proposed EEG (2016) is a continuation of the EEG (2014). It replaces prescribed feed-in tariffs with an auction system for the majority of renewable technologies. It repeats the deployment corridors specified in the EEG (2014) to control the uptake of renewable electricity over the next decade and to ensure that future renewable energy targets are honored. This corridor will be maintained by auctioning only a defined capacity each year. Only those renewables projects that bid successfully will receive EEG support for the electricity they supply over the following 20years. Each technology – photovoltaics, onshore wind, offshore wind, and biomass – will get an auction design tailored to its needs. Small renewables installations of under 750kW capacity or under 150kW for biomass will not be required to tender and will continue to receive conventional feed-in tariffs. Bidders from other European countries will be able to compete in the auctions for up to 5% of the annual capacity, under certain conditions. The new auction system should cover more than 80% of the new renewable electricity capacity.\n\nAs indicated above, the auction system was piloted in 2015 for ground-mounted photovoltaic facilities. As a result of this trial, the Economics and Energy Ministry (BMWi) abandoned 'uniform pricing' in favor of 'pay-as-bid'. The Federal Network Agency (\"Bundesnetzagentur\") will call for tenders for renewable projects and set the capacity to correspond to the trajectory needed for a 40–45% share in 2025. Starting in 2017, there will be between three and four auctions per year for photovoltaics and onshore wind. Participants will submit single sealed bids and will have to provide a substantial security deposit to ensure good faith. Bids are tied to projects and locations and cannot normally be transferred. The lowest bids will win until the capacity under auction is met. A ceiling price is to be notified in advance. Successful projects will receive the funding rate with which they won for a period of 20years. Special rules apply for citizen energy projects: small projects are exempt from the auction system altogether and larger projects will receive the highest offer accepted in their round rather than their own possibly lower bid.\n\nOnshore wind investors will also have to get prior approval for their projects under the Federal Immission Control Act (\"Bundes-Immissionsschutzgesetzes\" or \"BlmSchG\"), the federal law regulating the harmful effects of air pollution, noise, vibration and similar phenomena. Citizens cooperatives (\"Genossenschaft\") participating in wind energy tenders have special dispensations. Wind energy auctions will be held more often in the beginning, with three in 2017 and four in 2018, in order to quickly establish a price level. The annual capacity for onshore wind farms will be set at 2.8GW per year for 2017 to 2019 and at 2.9GW thereafter. In order to better synchronise the development of the grid with renewables growth, the addition of onshore wind will be restricted to specified 'grid congestion zones' where high inputs of renewable electricity cannot be accepted because of network congestion. These areas are to be identified by the Federal Network Agency. The new rules on funding offshore wind farms will apply to those projects that commence operation in 2021 or later. From 2025, the government will specify the sites for future wind farms and investors will then compete for the right to build at those locations. This centralised (Danish) model is designed to ensure competition and to make project approvals, site planning, and network connections more cost effective and better integrated. Between 2021 and 2024 a transitional auction model will be used and wind farms that have been planned and approved but not built will compete in two rounds of tenders for a restricted amount of capacity. Offshore wind will remain capped at 15GW by 2030 and the capacity auctioned each year will be consistent with this target. In 2021, only wind farms in the Baltic Sea will be considered, due to a shortage of network connections at the North Sea. Biomass projects will also participate in the new auction system. Biomass capacity is to be expanded by 150MW annually in the next three years and by 200MW annually for the following three years. Installations with a capacity greater than 150kW will also be able to tender. Biomass facilities will only receive remuneration for half their runtime in order to incentivize their use during times of high electricity prices. Hydroelectricity, geothermal, and mine, landfill, and sewage gas are excluded from the auction system because of the prospect of insufficient competition.\n\nOn 20December 2016, the European Commission found that the EEG amendments are in line with EU rules governing state aid, thereby allowing the planned introduction on 1January 2017 to be honored.\n\nThis round of legislation is being overseen by a CDU/CSU/SPD grand coalition government.\n\nIn January 2016, in response to the official proposals, Greenpeace Germany cautioned that a complete overhaul of the successful EEG would endanger climate protection targets. The (BWE) and others are calling for a 2.5GW net capacity addition for onshore wind energy per annum that is not dependent on the increase of offshore wind. They also say that the 40–45% renewables target by 2025 should not be treated as a fixed ceiling. The German Engineering Federation (VDMA) said that \"the EEG amendment gives rise to growing uncertainty in the industry\" and that \"it is however not right to regulate the expansion of renewable energy production by controlling the tendering volume for onshore wind energy and inflexibly clinging on to a 45% target in the electricity sector\".\n\nEstimates for 2012 suggest that almost half the renewable energy capacity in Germany is owned by citizens through energy cooperatives (\"Genossenschaft\") and private installations. Critics worry that the new rules will preclude citizen participation, despite the special provisions for cooperatives and individuals. Preparing tenders is expensive (costing perhaps €50,000–100,000) and that expenditure is sunk if the bid fails. In January 2016 Greenpeace Energy said that renewables auctions would make the \"Energiewende\" less fair and that citizen cooperatives and small investors would be at a disadvantage. Germanwatch, WWF-Germany, and Deutsche Umwelthilfe (DUH), three German NGOs, said the proposed reforms do not properly account for small, citizen-owned renewables projects. Citizen participation is seen as a key reason for the widespread public acceptance of renewable technologies in Germany. That support may lag if the EEG reforms favor large companies over cooperatives and individuals.\n\nIn November 2016, the CDU revealed that it is considering scrapping the EEG, although it remains undecided as to whether it will make this an election issue for 2017.\n\nThe EEG surcharge and the aggregate EEG surcharge have both risen steadily since 2000. The technologies that make up the largest share of the 2015 EEG surcharge are: photovoltaics at 43%, biomass at 25%, and onshore wind energy at 19%. Three percent is retained for past and future forecast errors and thereby provides a liquidity reserve.\n\nConsumers who cannot reclaim the additional 19% VAT (\"Mehrwertsteuer\") will pay that as well (to be added to the figures shown), which includes private households.\n\nThe structure and development of feed-in tariffs over the course of the EEG is a complex topic. This section is simply intended to give an indication. The feed-in tariffs for all technologies applicable are listed here. The following table summarizes onshore wind energy remunerations from April 2000 to October 2016.\n\nThe table below summarizes photovoltaics remunerations from August 2004 to January 2012. , under the EEG mandate, the Federal Network Agency (\"Bundesnetzagentur\") publishes the currently installed PV capacity with adjusted feed-in tariffs monthly as a downloadable spreadsheet. Otherwise, for data beyond January 2012, please see: feed-in tariffs in Germany.\n\nThe development of the EEG has been the subject of political science analysis. A 2006 study finds that \"the regulatory framework is formed in a 'battle over institutions' where the German parliament, informed and supported by an advocacy coalition of growing strength, backed support policies for renewables sourced electricity against often reluctant governments and the opposition from nuclear and coal interests\".\n\nA 2016 thesis finds that two broad coalition of actors faced each other off over the development of the EEG legislation: an 'economic coalition' that opposed support for renewables and sought to protect nuclear power and fossil fuel interests and an 'environmental coalition' that took the opposite stance. The economic coalition wanted unassisted market competition to prevail and preferred large-scale facilities. The environmental coalition comprised environmental organizations, the renewables industry, farmers, the metal workers unions (IGBCE and IG Metall), a German engineering association (VDMA), partly the (ZDH), and some industrial corporations with renewables interests. When the EEG was proposed in the late-1990s, the incumbent energy companies markedly underestimated the technological potential of renewables, believing them to be suitable only for niche roles. They were not alone, almost all politicians and scientists of the time did so too. The opposition to the EEG was therefore muted. Concurrent lobbying over the nuclear phase-out (\"Atomausstieg\") also diverted industry attention away from the EEG negotiations. Notwithstanding, the success of the EEG can be traced a small dedicated group of parliamentarians who forged an alliance between various business groups, unions, environmental NGOs, and other idealistic interest groups. Yet despite expectations, renewable generation came to account for 27.4% of gross electricity consumption in 2014 and seriously threatened the business model of the incumbents. As history shows, the environmental coalition prevailed till 2014 at least, underpinning the development of the EEG legislation, the nuclear phase-out, and the German \"Energiewende\" more generally.\n\nGreenpeace Germany believes that ongoing EU/US TTIP trade agreement negotiations have influenced the EEG (2014) onwards. Earlier versions of the EEG could be interpreted as inhibiting free trade and that granting renewable energy preferential dispatch may still be illegal under the proposed treaty.\n\nBetween 2015 and 2017, the fixed feed-in tariff scheme, introduced in 1991, is being phased out for around 80% of installations in favor of an auction system. This change is defined under the EEG (2014) and subsequent legislation.\n\nVarious studies have found that a fixed feed-in tariff scheme provides financial certainty and is more cost effective and less bureaucratic than other forms of support, including investment or production tax credits, quota-based renewable portfolio standards (RPS), and auction mechanisms. In 2008 the European Commission concluded that (although in 2014 it reversed its position to favor market-based instruments):\n\nWhen the avoided external costs are compared to the compensation that renewable energy operators were paid for electricity from renewable energy, a 2003 study finds that the reduced environmental impacts and related economic benefits far outweigh the additional costs required to compensate the producers of electricity from renewable sources. Accounting for the external costs of fossil fuel use and thus \"level[ing] the playing field\" had been one of the key purposes when constructing the original EEG. A feed-in tariff scheme generates more competition, more jobs, and more rapid deployment for manufacturing and does not require the picking of technological winners, such as between wind power and photovoltaics. Denmark and Germany have been at the forefront of FIT scheme development.\n\nA 2008 economics study by RWI Essen was hugely critical of the high levels of feed-in support afforded photovoltaics. The study argues that the 2005 European Union Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS) was sufficient to drive the transition towards a low-carbon economy, that the EEG does nothing intrinsic to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and that the electricity produced represents one of the most expensive greenhouse gas abatement options on offer.\n\nIn June 2016 economist Claudia Kemfert from DIW Berlin contended that the new auction system, introduced with the EEG (2014) and being refined under the proposed EEG (2016), will not reduce costs, but will rather undermine planning security and increase the risk premium applied by investors. In addition, the auction system will lead to deployment corridors being missed as companies holding tenders delay construction for whatever reason.\n\nThe positive impact on the environment \"globally\" is less clear. Hans-Werner Sinn, a German economist and chair of the Ifo Institut für Wirtschaftsforschung argues that Germany's renewable energy support reduces world market prices for fossil energy. Thus, countries like China or the US have an incentive to produce more, and the net effect on the climate is zero. This effect is known as the green paradox.\n\nOne challenge that lies ahead is integrating the electricity generated by decentralized renewable energy into the existing electricity grid structure. The grid was built to suit the centralized energy system of the then four main energy companies, namely, E.ON, EnBW, RWE, and Vattenfall.\n\nThe need for grid reinforcement from north to south is commonly recognized. In response, the four TSOs proposed 92 expansion projects covering 7300km of lines, but not all will be required or approved. In 2015 the Federal Network Agency (\"Bundesnetzagentur\") released its report on grid expansion plans covering the next decade. Rapid development of the grid is being driven by the uptake of renewables and the phase-out of nuclear power.\n\nBut not all experts agree that a substantial build-out of the grid is necessary. Claudia Kemfert believes the large amount of coal-fired generation on the system is part of the problem. Kemfert said \"our studies and models show that grid extension does no harm, but it's not strictly necessary decentralised, intelligent grids with demand management and, in the medium term, storage, would be much more important.\" Analysis for Greenpeace Germany in 2016 also suggests that it is inflexible coal and nuclear plants that are clogging the grid and driving up wholesale electricity prices.\n\nThe EEG (2014) specifies technology-specific deployment corridors (see table) which will be tracked by the new auction system. Environmental NGOs and renewable energy advocates argue that these corridors are insufficient to meet Germany's climate protection goals. Greenpeace Germany observes \"to reduce renewables to 45% in 2025 means expanding the fossil [fuel] share to 55%, with the aim of mitigating the impact on large utilities\". Patrick Graichen from the Berlin energy policy institute Agora Energiewende agrees that the deployment corridors are set too low to reach renewables targets beyond 2025.\n\nA 2016 report by Volker Quaschning of HTW Berlin concludes that Germany will need to accelerate its renewables uptake by a factor of four or five to reach the lower 2015 Paris Agreement global warming target of 1.5°C. Moreover, this target will require the energy sector to be carbon free by 2040. Give the likely electrification of the transport and heating sectors, the deployment corridors laid out in the EEG (2014) are wholly inadequate. Onshore wind generation should instead grow by 6.3GW net per year (2.8GW is specified) and photovoltaics by 15GW (2.5GW is specified).\n\nA 2011 paper from DIW Berlin modeled the deployment of various renewable energy technologies until 2030 and quantified the associated economic effects. The uptake of renewable energy simultaneously creates business opportunities and imposes social costs for promotion. The study reveals that the continued expansion of renewable energy in Germany should benefit both economic growth and employment in the mid-term.\n\nThe Berlin energy policy institute Agora Energiewende predicts that the EEG surcharge will peak around 2023 and then decline. The reasons being that expensive projects committed at the beginning of the EEG in 2000 will begin to expire after their 20years of support, that new projects are now much cheaper, and that the trend of reducing generation cost will continue.\n\nIn November 2016, reported on the new and several other related new laws. It concludes that this new legislation will bring \"fundamental changes\" for large sections of the energy industry, but have limited impact on the economy and on consumers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4234178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4234178", "title": "Hague Trust Convention", "text": "Hague Trust Convention\n\nThe Hague Convention on the Law Applicable to Trusts and on their Recognition, or Hague Trust Convention is a multilateral treaty developed by the Hague Conference on Private International Law on the Law Applicable to Trusts. It concluded on 1 July 1985, entered into force 1 January 1992, and is as of September 2017 ratified by 14 countries. The Convention uses a harmonised definition of a trust, which are the subject of the convention and sets Conflict rules for resolving problems in the choice of the applicable law. The key provisions of the Convention are:\n\nMany states do not have a developed law of trusts, or the principles differ significantly between states. It was therefore necessary for the Hague Convention to define a trust to indicate the range of legal transactions regulated by the Convention and, perhaps more significantly, the range of applications not regulated. The definition offered in Article 2 is:\n\nArticle 3 provides that the Convention only applies to express trusts created voluntarily and evidenced in writing. It will therefore not cover oral trusts, resulting trusts, constructive trusts, statutory trusts or trusts created by judicial order. But signatory states are free to apply the Convention to any form of trust. There are incidental question problems if the trust is testamentary and, under Article 4, if it is alleged that the testator lacked capacity, or that the will is formally or substantively invalid, or that it had been revoked, these issues must be determined first under the \"lex fori\" Conflict rules on characterisation and choice of law before the Convention rules can apply. This will include, for example, a detailed consideration of any marriage settlement or applicable law containing community property provisions which might prevent the testator alienating property from a spouse or child of the family (see succession (conflict)). Obviously, if the will purporting to create the trust is held invalid, there are no trusts to adjudicate upon.\n\nArticle 6 allows the settlor to select the applicable law in the \"inter vivos\" or testamentary document. Under normal circumstances, the settlor will be acting on professional advice and will make an express selection or it will be implied from the facts of the case. But, under Actable 6(2), if the settlor selects a law with no relevant provisions or the provisions in the municipal law selected would be inappropriate, or there is no selection, Article 7 applies to select the law which is most closely connected with the transaction. This is judged by reference to four alternative connecting factors which are to be considered as at the time the putative trust is created:\nDespite the identification of these four factors, the court must actually perform a rounded evaluation of all the circumstances. Thus, it would be relevant to consider the distribution of the assets if in separate states, the purpose of the trust (which might be the evasion of taxation or other provisions in some of the states where the assets are located), the \"lex domicilii\" or \"lex patriae\" of the settlor and the beneficiaries (particularly if the legal transaction is a marriage settlement or testamentary), the legal form of the document, and the law of the place where the document was executed (this latter factor may either be accidental and so of marginal value, or contrived to take advantage of a favourable law and so highly significant).\nUnder Article 8, the law specified by Article 6 or 7 shall govern the validity of the trust, its construction, its effects, and the administration of the trust. In particular that law shall govern:\nArticles 9 and 10 allow the Applicable Law by which the validity of the trust has been established, to sever aspects of the trust and its administration so that separate laws shall apply to each component. In fact, the settlor may expressly select an Applicable Law for each component and the forum court should respect his or her wishes. But, in general terms, it is desirable that a single law should be applied to the administration and the fact that there may be assets located in separate states should not, \"per se\", justify severing the trust. The relevant \"lex situs\" can be applied to micromanage the asset(s) by the trustee(s) without having to apply the \"situs\" law to the administration of the trust in that state. Equally, this is not an argument for a judicial approach which favours the law of the place of administration as the Applicable Law. Although the administration must comply with the municipal laws for general purposes, the duty to honour the intentions of the settlor may make the law of the place where the most significant part of that intention is to be realised the most significant single law.\nUnder Article 11, a trust complying with the Applicable Law shall be recognised as a trust which implies, as a minimum, that the trust property constitutes a separate fund, that the trustee may sue and be sued in his capacity as trustee, and that he or she may appear or act in this capacity before a notary or any person acting in an official capacity. In so far as the law applicable to the trust requires or provides, this recognition implies in particular:\nHowever, the rights and obligations of any third party holder of the assets shall remain subject to the law determined by the choice of law rules of the \"lex fori\". Thus, although the Convention makes provision for the trustee(s) and any third parties, it fails to address the position of the beneficiaries who, for example, might wish to pursue assets intermixed with the trustee's personal property through actions for tracing. One of the problems that beneficiaries might encounter is addressed in Article 12 which considers the problem where the \"situs\" law does not have a title registration system which reflects ownership registration in a representative capacity. While recognising that the Convention cannot require states to modify their existing registers, it provides that the trustee shall be entitled, in so far as this is not prohibited by or inconsistent with the law of the State where registration is sought, to do so in his capacity as trustee or in such other way that the existence of the trust is disclosed. This implicitly recognises the desirability of all registration systems distinguishing between beneficial and representative titles.\n\nThis general difficulty of municipal laws failure to support trusts is addressed in Article 13, which considers the situation of those who wish to create a trust but can only do so by invoking laws entirely outside their own state. As an application of comity, no forum state is bound to recognise a trust the significant elements of which, except for the choice of the applicable law, the place of administration and the habitual residence of the trustee, are more closely connected with States which do not have the institution of the trust or the category of trust involved. But, because this could be interpreted as an invitation not to validate otherwise perfectly appropriate financial arrangements for deserving beneficiaries, Article 14 provides that the Convention shall not prevent the application of rules of law more favourable to the recognition of trusts. This reflects the positive rules of public policy which require that the validity of a transaction (whether commercial or not) be upheld if at all possible where this will give effect to the reasonable expectations of the parties. The only exceptions shall be where this will produce consequences offending against the mandatory policies of the forum court in which case Article 18 empowers the court to deny the Applicable Law, even if it has been expressly selected by the settlor. But Article 15(2) nevertheless requires the forum court to consider adopting an approach that will preserve the overall validity of the trust insofar as that generality does not offend against the mandatory policy.\n\nAs of September 2017, 14 countries have ratified the convention: Australia, Cyprus, Canada (8 provinces only), China (Hong Kong only), Italy, Luxembourg, Liechtenstein, Malta, Monaco, the Netherlands (European territory only), Panama, San Marino, Switzerland and United Kingdom (including 12 dependent territories/crown dependencies).\n\n"}
{"id": "14210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14210", "title": "Harrison Narcotics Tax Act", "text": "Harrison Narcotics Tax Act\n\nThe Harrison Narcotics Tax Act (Ch. 1, ) was a United States federal law that regulated and taxed the production, importation, and distribution of opiates and coca products. The act was proposed by Representative Francis Burton Harrison of New York and was approved on December 17, 1914.\n\n\"An Act To provide for the registration of, with collectors of internal revenue, and to impose a special tax on all persons who produce, import, manufacture, compound, deal in, dispense, sell, distribute, or give away opium or coca leaves, their salts, derivatives, or preparations, and for other purposes.\" The courts interpreted this to mean that physicians could prescribe narcotics to patients in the course of normal treatment, but not for the treatment of addiction.\n\nThe Harrison Anti-Narcotic legislation consisted of three U.S. House bills imposing restrictions on the availability and consumption of the psychoactive drug opium. U.S. House bills and passed conjointly with House bill or the Opium and Coca Leaves Trade Restrictions Act.\n\nAlthough technically illegal for purposes of distribution and use, the distribution, sale and use of cocaine was still legal for registered companies and individuals.\n\nFollowing the Spanish–American War the U.S. acquired the Philippines from Spain. At that time, opium addiction constituted a significant problem in the civilian population of the Philippines.\n\nCharles Henry Brent was an American Episcopal bishop who served as Missionary Bishop of the Philippines beginning in 1901. He convened a Commission of Inquiry, known as the Brent Commission, for the purpose of examining alternatives to a licensing system for opium addicts. The Commission recommended that narcotics should be subject to international control. The recommendations of the Brent Commission were endorsed by the United States Department of State and in 1906 President Theodore Roosevelt called for an international conference, the International Opium Commission, which was held in Shanghai in February 1909. A second conference was held at The Hague in May 1911, and out of it came the first international drug control treaty, the International Opium Convention of 1912.\n\nIn the 1800s opiates and cocaine were mostly unregulated drugs. In the 1890s the Sears & Roebuck catalogue, which was distributed to millions of Americans homes, offered a syringe and a small amount of cocaine for $1.50. On the other hand, as early as 1880 some states and localities had already passed laws against smoking opium, at least in public.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, cocaine began to be linked to crime. In 1900, the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" published an editorial stating, \"Negroes in the South are reported as being addicted to a new form of vice – that of 'cocaine sniffing' or the 'coke habit.'\" Some newspapers later claimed cocaine use caused blacks to rape white women and was improving their pistol marksmanship. Chinese immigrants were blamed for importing the opium-smoking habit to the U.S. The 1903 blue-ribbon citizens' panel, the Committee on the Acquirement of the Drug Habit, concluded, \"If the Chinaman cannot get along without his dope we can get along without him.\"\n\nTheodore Roosevelt appointed Dr. Hamilton Wright as the first Opium Commissioner of the United States in 1908. In 1909, Wright attended the International Opium Commission in Shanghai as the American delegate. He was accompanied by Charles Henry Brent, the Episcopal Bishop. On March 12, 1911, Dr. Wright was quoted as follows in an article in \"The New York Times\": \"Of all the nations of the world, the United States consumes most habit-forming drugs per capita. Opium, the most pernicious drug known to humanity, is surrounded, in this country, with far fewer safeguards than any other nation in Europe fences it with.\" Wright further claimed that \"it has been authoritatively stated that cocaine is often the direct incentive to the crime of rape by the negroes of the South and other sections of the country,\" though he failed to mention specifically \"which\" authorities had stated that, and did not provide any evidence for his claim. Wright also stated that \"one of the most unfortunate phases of smoking opium in this country is the large number of women who have become involved and were living as common-law wives or cohabitating with Chinese in the Chinatowns of our various cities\".\n\nOpium usage had begun to decline by 1914 after rising dramatically in the post Civil War Era, peaking at around one-half million pounds per year in 1896. Demand gradually declined thereafter in response to mounting public concern, local and state regulations, and the Pure Food and Drugs Act of 1906, which required labeling of patent medicines that contained opiates, cocaine, alcohol, cannabis and other intoxicants. As of 1911, an estimated one U.S. citizen in 400 (0.25%) was addicted to some form of opium. The opium addicts were mostly women who were prescribed and dispensed legal opiates by physicians and pharmacist for \"female problems\" (probably pain at menstruation) or white men and Chinese at the Opium dens. Between two-thirds and three-quarters of these addicts were women. By 1914, forty-six states had regulations on cocaine and twenty-nine states had laws against opium, morphine, and heroin.\n\nSeveral authors have argued that the debate was merely to regulate trade and collect a tax. However, the committee report prior to the debate on the house floor and the debate itself, discussed the rise of opiate use in the United States. Harrison stated that \"The purpose of this Bill can hardly be said to raise revenue, because it prohibits the importation of something upon which we have hitherto collected revenue.\" Later Harrison stated, \"We are not attempting to collect revenue, but regulate commerce.\" House representative Thomas Sisson stated, \"The purpose of this bill—and we are all in sympathy with it—is to prevent the use of opium in the United States, destructive as it is to human happiness and human life.\"\n\nThe drafters played on fears of \"drug-crazed, sex-mad negroes\" and made references to Negroes under the influence of drugs murdering whites, degenerate Mexicans smoking marijuana, and \"Chinamen\" seducing white women with drugs. Dr. Hamilton Wright, testified at a hearing for the Harrison Act. Wright alleged that drugs made blacks uncontrollable, gave them superhuman powers and caused them to rebel against white authority. Dr. Christopher Koch of the State Pharmacy Board of Pennsylvania testified that \"Most of the attacks upon the white women of the South are the direct result of a cocaine-crazed Negro brain\".\n\nBefore the Act was passed, on February 8, 1914, \"The New York Times\" published an article entitled \"Negro Cocaine 'Fiends' Are New Southern Menace: Murder and Insanity Increasing Among Lower-Class Blacks\" by Edward Huntington Williams, which reported that Southern sheriffs had increased the caliber of their weapons from .32 to .38 to bring down Negroes under the effect of cocaine.\n\nDespite the extreme racialization of the issue that took place in the buildup to the Act's passage, the contemporary research on the subject indicated that black Americans were in fact using cocaine and opium at much \"lower\" rates than white Americans.\n\nEnforcement began in 1915.\n\nThe act appears to be concerned about the marketing of opiates. However a clause applying to doctors allowed distribution \"in the course of his professional practice only.\" This clause was interpreted after 1917 to mean that a doctor could not prescribe opiates to an addict, since addiction was not considered a disease. A number of doctors were arrested and some were imprisoned. The medical profession quickly learned not to supply opiates to addicts. In \"United States v. Doremus\", 249 U.S. 86 (1919), the Supreme Court ruled that the Harrison Act was constitutional, and in \"Webb v. United States\", 249 U.S. 96, 99 (1919) that physicians could not prescribe narcotics solely for maintenance.\n\nThe impact of diminished supply was obvious by mid-1915. A 1918 commission called for sterner law enforcement, while newspapers published sensational articles about addiction-related crime waves. Congress responded by tightening up the Harrison Act—the importation of heroin for any purpose was banned in 1924.\n\nAfter other complementary laws (for example implementing the Uniform State Narcotic Act in 1932), and other actions by the government the number of addicts of opium started to decrease fast from 1925 to a level that in 1945 that was about one tenth of the level in 1914.\n\nThe use of the term 'narcotics' in the title of the act to describe not just opiates but also cocaine—which is a central nervous system stimulant, not a narcotic—initiated a precedent of frequent legislative and judicial misclassification of various substances as 'narcotics'. Today, law enforcement agencies, popular media, the United Nations, other nations and even some medical practitioners can be observed applying the term very broadly and often pejoratively in reference to a wide range of illicit substances, regardless of the more precise definition existing in medical contexts. For this reason, however, 'narcotic' has come to mean any illegally used drug, but it is useful as a shorthand for referring to a controlled drug in a context where its legal status is more important than its physiological effects.\n\nThe remaining effect of this act, which has largely been superseded by the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, is the warning \"*Warning: May be habit forming\" on labels, package inserts, and other places where ingredients are listed in the case of many opioids, barbiturates, medicinal formulations of cocaine, and chloral hydrate.\n\nThe act also marks the beginning of the creation of the modern, criminal drug addict and the American black market for drugs. Within five years the Rainey Committee, a Special Committee on Investigation appointed by Secretary of the Treasury William Gibbs McAdoo and led by Congressman T. Rainey, reported in June, 1919 that drugs were being smuggled into the country by sea, and across the Mexican and Canadian borders by nationally established organisations and that the United States consumed 470,000 pounds of opium annually, compared to 17,000 pounds in both France and Germany. The Monthly Summary of Foreign Commerce of the United States recorded that in the 7 months to January 1920, 528,635 pounds of opium was imported, compared to 74,650 pounds in the same period in 1919.\n\nThe Act's applicability in prosecuting doctors who prescribe narcotics to addicts was successfully challenged in \"Linder v. United States\" in 1925, as Justice McReynolds ruled that the federal government has no power to regulate medical practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "6576885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6576885", "title": "Hendren v. Campbell", "text": "Hendren v. Campbell\n\nHendren et al. v. Campbell et al. was a 1977 ruling by an Indiana state superior court that the young-earth creationist textbook could not be used in Indiana public schools. Jon Hendren, a ninth-grade student in the West Clark Community Schools, sued when the district picked \"Biology: A Search For Order In Complexity\", published by the Creation Research Society and promoted through the Institute for Creation Research, as the sole biology textbook.\n\nThe ruling declared: \"The question is whether a text obviously designed to present only the view of Biblical Creationism in a favorable light is constitutionally acceptable in the public schools of Indiana. Two hundred years of constitutional government demand that the answer be no.\" \"Campbell\" was a forerunner to the federal decisions in \"McLean v. Arkansas\" and \"Edwards v. Aguillard\". In \"Aguillard\", the United States Supreme Court – using logic similar to that in \"Campbell\" – ruled that creation science was religiously motivated and could not be taught in public schools.\n"}
{"id": "1269878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1269878", "title": "Islamic marital jurisprudence", "text": "Islamic marital jurisprudence\n\nIn Islamic law (\"sharia\"), marriage (\"nikāḥ\" نکاح) is a legal and social contract between two individuals. Islam is totally opposed to monasticism and celibacy. Marriage is an act of Islam and is strongly recommended; the age of marriage being whenever the individuals feel ready, financially and emotionally. Polygyny is permitted in Islam under some conditions, but polyandry is forbidden.\n\n\"nikāḥ\" (Arabic: نكاح, literally, \"to collect and bind together\") is the first—and most common—form of marriage for Muslims. It is described in the Qur'an in Surah 4:4.\n\nRegulations:\n\nRequirement of witnesses:\n\nPermission from Wali:\n\n\"nikāḥ mut‘ah\" (Arabic: نكاح متعة, temporary marriage, There is controversy on the Islamic legality of this type of marriage, since Sunnis believe it was abrogated by Muhammad or Umar.while Shias do not hold this. According to Shia Hadith: Ali (r) said ‘Had Umar not banned Mut’ah then the only person to fornicate would have been a disgraceful person, since Mut’ah is easy, and one can attain the objective, there would have then been no need to indulge in haraam acts. It is clear that if Mut’ah’s abrogation was Sahih then Jabir would not have opposed Omar, and that if Islamic prophet outlawed it, the Companions would not have practiced it during the reign of Abu Bakr. Someone asked Abdullah bin Umar (about Mut’ah) saying: ‘Your father prohibited it. (Ibn Umar replied): ‘Is the order of the Messenger of Allah, more deserving to be followed, or the order of my father?’ .\n\n\"However, similar to normal marriages that are common among Sunnis and Shi'ias, the woman still is given her \"mahr\",and the woman must still observe the \"iddah\", a period of time where the woman cannot remarry. This is to ensure that there is no pregnancy from the ex-husband and thus clarifies paternal lineage.\"\n\nQuran 4:24 (Pickthall)- And all married women (are forbidden unto you) save those (captives) whom your right hands possess. It is a decree of Allah for you. Lawful unto you are all beyond those mentioned, so that ye seek them with your wealth in honest wedlock, not debauchery. And those of whom ye seek content (by marrying them), give unto them their portions as a duty. And there is no sin for you in what ye do by mutual agreement after the duty (hath been done). Lo! Allah is ever Knower, Wise.\n\nnikāḥ Misyaar is a nikāḥ in Sunni's carried out via the normal contractual procedure, with the specificity that the husband and wife give up several rights by their own free will, such as living together, equal division of nights between wives in cases of polygamy, the wife's rights to housing, and maintenance money (\"nafaqa\"), and the husband's right of homekeeping, and access etc. The difference between this and Mut'ah is that Mut'ah has the condition of a definite time period. Allowing both husband and wife aware of a separation date, prior to a marriage contract. Sunnah Scholars have said it is permissible to marry a Woman with the intention of getting divorced, If the Wife is not informed or expecting a divorce during a marriage contract. \n\nIt is a marriage ( نکاح استبضاع) in which a husband would send his wife to another person, usually of noble lineage, to have sexual relations with him. The husband would refrain from sexual relations with his wife until she became pregnant by the other man. Afterwards, the man would claim paternity of the conceived child. This was done to get a child of noble breed. It was eradicated by Islam.\n\nIt is marriage (نکاح شغار) in which two men would exchange their daughters, sisters or other close women for marriage without paying Mahr. It was prohibited by Muhammad. \n\nThis is polyandrous marriage, in which up to ten men would have sexual relations with the same woman at around the same time. When she bore a child she would call all the men and attribute paternity of the child to a man of her choosing. This practice was eradicated by Islam.\n\nMuslim males may marry a non-Muslim female, specifically, one from the \"People of the Book\", which includes Judaism and Christianity. Conversion is optional for the woman, but she is nonetheless charged with having a proper understanding of her respective faith as well as engaging in its true and thorough practise. Muslim women have generally forbidden from marrying non-Muslims by some interpretations. But today, more and more scholars have been questioning this ages-long assumption.\n\nMuslim men are allowed to practise polygyny, that is, they can have more than one wife at the same time, up to a total of four, per Sura 4 Verse 3. A man does not need approval of his first wife for a second marriage as there is no evidence in the Qur'an or hadith to suggest this. The only requirement is to create fairness among his wives and to never hurt one wife to please another as this would be unjust. If this requirement cannot be fulfilled, then he can only marry one woman.\n\nPolyandry, the practice of a woman having more than one husband, by contrast, is not permitted. One of the main reasons for this would be the potential questioning of paternal lineage. The Quran states: (30:21): “And among His signs is that He has created for you, from your selves, mates, that you may incline towards them and find rest in them, and He has engendered love and tenderness between you. Surely in this are signs for people who reflect.”\n\n\"Sahih Muslim\" permits marriage once a person reaches sexual maturity (i.e.: menstruation, voice changing, wet dreams) (\"baligh\"). Sexual maturity in Sharia law is typically understood to mean puberty. At the same time, intercourse is forbidden until they are able to physically bear it.\n\nTraditionally, Muslim jurists hold that Muslim women may only enter into marriage with Muslim men. The Qur'an explicitly allows Muslim men to marry chaste women of the People of the Book, a term which includes Jews and Christians.\n\nAn engagement may be arranged between families for their children, but Islamic requirements for a legal marriage include the requirement that both parties, bride, groom and guardian for the bride (\"wali\"), give their legal consent. A marriage without the consent of the bride or performed under coercion is illegal according to the majority of scholars.\n\nIf a girl has not attained the age of puberty, the vast majority of scholars hold that she cannot be married; and many stipulate that it must be in her best interest in order to be considered a valid marriage. There is some dispute as to whether or not an under-age bride can leave her family's custody and be transferred to her husband's custody, if she has not yet reached puberty. Some evidence supporting both sides can be seen in the following narrations from Muhammad:\n\nSahih Bukhari Volume 7, Book 62, Number 65 Narrated 'Aisha: that the Prophet married her when she was six years old and he consummated his marriage when she was nine years old. Hisham said: I have been informed that 'Aisha remained with the Prophet for nine years (i.e. till his death).\n\nSahih Bukhari 7.18 Narrated 'Ursa: The Prophet asked Abu Bakr for 'Aisha's hand in marriage. Abu Bakr said \"But I am your brother.\" The Prophet said, \"You are my brother in Allah's religion and His Book, but she (Aisha) is lawful for me to marry.\"\n\nhowever; evidence from other Islamic sources seems to suggest that this is not something allowed for all Muslims; rather specifically for Muhammad. The evidence for this view is as follows:\n\nAbu Hurayrah reported that the Prophet said: \"A non-virgin woman may not be married without her command, and a virgin may not be married without her permission; and it is permission enough for her to remain silent (because of her natural shyness).\" [Al-Bukhari:6455, Muslim & Others]\n\nIt is reported in a hadith that A'ishah related that she once asked the Prophet: \"In the case of a young girl whose parents marry her off, should her permission be sought or not?\" He replied: \"Yes, she must give her permission.\" She then said: \"But a virgin would be shy, O Messenger of Allaah!\" He replied: \"Her silence is [considered as] her permission.\" [Al-Bukhari, Muslim, & Others]\n\nIt appears that the permission of an under-age bride is indeed necessary for her marriage to be considered valid;the above narrations seem to clearly make the approval of the bride a condition for a valid marriage contract.\n\nIslam does not give adulterous men the right to marry a chaste woman and nor may an adulterous woman marry a chaste man, except if the matter has not gone to court and the two purify themselves of this sin by sincere repentance.\nA woman or man may propose marriage directly or through an intermediary (matchmaker).\n\nRecognition or celebration of same-sex marriage is completely unjustified in the view of Islamic law. Islam forbids homosexuality in Qur'anic injunctions and Islamic tradition.\n\nA marriage is registered by the \"Qadi\" who performs the short ceremony.\n\nUnlike the wedding ring in Western societies, there is no visible sign worn to show a woman or a man is married. However, some Muslims have found the wedding ring to be a non-religious tradition and have used a ring.\n\nMahr is a mandatory gift given by the groom to the bride. Unlike a bride price, however, it is given directly to the bride and not to her father. Although the gift is often money, it can be anything agreed upon by bride and groom such as a house or viable business that is put in her name and can be run and owned entirely by her if she chooses.\n\nThe purpose, rules, and regulations of the Islamic marriage contract. A Muslim marriage is not a \"sacrament\", but a simple, legal agreement in which either partner is free to include conditions. These conditions are stipulated in a written contract. Violating any of the conditions stipulated in this contract is legal grounds for a partner seeking divorce. The first part of the Nikah, \"marriage ceremony\" is the signing of the marriage contract itself.\n\nVarious traditions may differ in how Nikah is performed because different groups accept different texts as authoritative. Therefore, Sunnis will likely accept the hadith of Muhammad al-Bukhari, while Shia will have their own collections, for example Furu al-Kafi, thus producing different procedures. This contract requires the consent of both parties. There is a tradition, outside of the religion, in some Muslim countries to pre-arrange a marriage for young children. However, the marriage still requires consent for the wedding to legally take place.\n\nDivorce is not forbidden as a last resort, however the dissolution of the contract Talaq, is often described as the most disliked of permissible things in Islam and should be used as a last resort.\n\nThe Walima is a dinner given by the groom's side of the family to celebrate the welcoming of the bride to the family. It is a strong sunnah (the repetition of an action of Muhammad) and it is recommended to be held the earliest possible day after the Nikah.\n\nIslam advocates a role-based relationship between husband and wife.\n\n`Abd Allah ibn `Umar narrated:\nIt puts the main responsibility of earning over the husband. Both are obliged to fulfill the other's sexual needs. Both are obliged to treat each other with kindness.\n\nThe wife has the right to live in separate accommodation with her husband and children, if she does not like to share it with anyone like her in-law or relatives. This is the view of most of the Hanafi, Shaafa’i and Hanbali fuqaha. She also has the right to refuse to live with her husband's father, mother and siblings.\n\nNarrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar: That he heard Allah's Apostle saying, \"Everyone of you is a guardian and is responsible for his charge; the ruler is a guardian and is responsible for his subjects; the man is a guardian in his family and responsible for his charges; a woman is a guardian of her husband's house and responsible for her charges; and the servant is a guardian of his master's property and is responsible for his charge.\" I definitely heard the above from the Prophet and think that the Prophet also said, \"A man is a guardian of his father's property and responsible for his charges; so everyone of you is a guardian and responsible for his charges.\"[Sahih Bukhari]\n\nThis indicates that a wife is responsible for the house of her husband. Also that a man should be the guardian of his family, i.e., after his marriage he moves out of his father's house, and runs his own family affairs and is guardian of his family. In joint family, typically the head is either the father of the husband, or mother of the husband. This also indicates that a husband should look after his parent's house, as \"a man is a guardian of his father's property\". So the wife should not object to her husband when he is looking after affairs of his parents.\n\nSexuality in Islam is largely described by the Qur'an, Islamic tradition, and religious leaders both past and present as being confined to marital relationships between men and women. While most traditions discourage celibacy, all encourage strict chastity and modesty with regards to any relationships across gender lines, holding forth that intimacy as perceived within Islam (encompassing a swath of life more broad than strictly sex) is to be reserved for marriage.\n\nAbd Allah ibn Mas'ud narrated:\nWhile adulterous relationships are strictly forbidden, permissible sexual relationships within marriage are described in Islamic sources as great wells of love and closeness for the couple involved. Sexual relationship between married couples are even source of rewards from God as doing the opposite; i.e., satisfying sexual needs through illicit means has punishment. Specific occasions (most notably daytime fasting (see sawm) and menstruation) are times forbidden for intercourse, though not for other ways of touching and being close to one another. Anal sex with one's wife is also strictly prohibited.\n\nIslam has an open and playful approach to sex so long as it is within marriage, free of lewdness, fornication and adultery.\n\nThe Qur'an asserts that there are innate differences between women and men. Therefore, Islam places different rights over the husband and wife.\n\nSome similar rights which both the husband and wife owe to each other are:\n\nSome rights which the husband owes to his wife are:\n\nSome rights which the wife owes to her husband are:\n\n\nThese are some of the rights which spouses owe one another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33667429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33667429", "title": "Juana Ramírez", "text": "Juana Ramírez\n\nJuana Ramírez (1790 - 1856), better known as Juana \"La Avanzadora\", was a soldier and heroine of the Venezuelan War of Independence.\n\nShe was born in to slavery. In 1813, Juana Ramírez commanded an all-female, 100-strong artillery unit, which was instrumental in resisting Spanish soldiers’ attempts to reconquer the then newly independent Venezuela and make it a colony again.\n\nThe Guacharacans and later the citizens of San Vicente would plant cacti that were the first markers of the exact site were \"La Avanzadora\" is buried. A monument, constructed and declared the District Patriotic Sanctuary in 1975, and then the Regional Patriotic Sanctuary in 1994, designates the final resting place of her remains. The monument, Juana La Avanzadora, was erected in her honor on Bolívar avenue in Maturín. On October 23, 2001 the symbolic remains of Juana Ramírez were inducted into the National Pantheon of Venezuela, the last resting place of heroes of the War for Independence and important figures in Venezuelan society.\n\nIn 2015 she became the first black woman to be posthumously laid to rest in Venezuela's National Mausoleum of Heroes.\n"}
{"id": "23177016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23177016", "title": "Judicial review in the Philippines", "text": "Judicial review in the Philippines\n\nAs early as 1936, the Philippine Supreme Court had unequivocally asserted its constitutional authority to engage in judicial review. This power was affirmed in the Supreme Court decision in \"Angara v. Electoral Commission\", 63 Phil. 139 (1936). Nonetheless, the Supreme Court would, in the next several decades, often decline to exercise judicial review by invoking the political question doctrine. In 1987, the constitutional convention formed to draft a new charter decided to provide for a definition of \"judicial power\" as a means of inhibiting the Supreme Court from frequently resorting to the political question doctrine. Hence, Section 1, Article VIII of the 1987 Constitution states in part that:\"Judicial power includes the duty of courts of justice to settle actual controversies involving rights which are legally demandable and enforceable, and to determine whether or not there has been a grave abuse of discretion amounting to lack or excess of jurisdiction on the part of any branch or instrumentality of the government.\" See also:\n"}
{"id": "18938059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18938059", "title": "Keith Henson", "text": "Keith Henson\n\nHoward Keith Henson (born 1942) is an American electrical engineer and writer on space engineering, space law (Moon treaty), memetics, cryonics, evolutionary psychology and physical limitations of Transhumanism.\n\nIn 1975, he and his then-wife Carolyn Meinel founded the L5 Society, which promoted space colonization and which was eventually folded into the National Space Society. More recently, Henson's outspoken criticism of the Church of Scientology and subsequent criminal proceedings have gained him headlines.\n\nKeith Henson was raised as an \"army brat\" attending seven schools before 7th grade. His father, Lt. Col. Howard W. Henson (1909–2001), was a decorated (Bronze Star, Legion of Merit) US Army officer who spent much of his career in Army Intelligence. The science-fiction author Robert A. Heinlein played a major role in influencing his early life. Henson graduated from Prescott High School shortly after his father retired, before attending the University of Arizona and receiving a degree in Electrical Engineering.\n\nDuring much of this period, Henson worked at a geophysics company, mostly running induced polarization surveys in the western US and Peru. Henson also programmed geophysical type cases and wrote data reduction programs for the company.\n\nHenson was known at the University of Arizona as one of the founders of the Druid Student Center, where a campus humor newspaper, \"The Frumious Bandersnatch\" was published in the late 1960s. He later cited an incident that occurred in his student days as a good example of memetic replication. When asked to fill in a form that required him to disclose his religious affiliations he wrote \"Druid\". His prank was soon noticed by other students and before long almost 20% of the student body had registered themselves as Reform Druids, Orthodox Druids, Members of the Church of the \"n\"th Druid, Zen Druids, Latter-Day Druids and so on. The university was forced to remove the religious affiliation question, breaking the chain of replication and variation.\n\nAfter graduation, Henson went to work for Burr-Brown Research, now merged into Texas Instruments, in Tucson, Arizona. While there, he worked on extremely low distortion quadrature oscillators and non-linear function modules (multipliers, vector adders and root-mean-square). His first patent was a design for a 4-quadrant log-antilog multiplier. He claims to have been fired (not from Burr-Brown) in 1972 for refusing to certify an electronic module for a nuclear power plant that failed to meet a required MTBF specification. Henson then set up his own company, Analog Precision Inc., producing specialized computer interface equipment and related industrial control devices.\n\nHenson married his first wife, Carolyn Meinel, in 1967 and they divorced in 1981.\n\nIn 1974, Henson's occasional rock climbing partner, physicist Dr. Dan Jones, introduced him to the space colonization work of Dr. Gerard K. O'Neill of Princeton University. To promote these ideas, Henson and Meinel founded the L5 Society in 1975.\n\nHenson co-wrote papers for three Space Manufacturing conferences at Princeton. The 1977 and 1979 papers were co-authored with Eric Drexler. Patents were issued on both subjects—vapor phase fabrication and space radiators.\n\nIn 1980, Henson testified before the United States Congress when the L5 Society successfully opposed the Moon Treaty. The society was represented by Leigh Ratiner (later a figure in the Inslaw proceedings). The experience eventually became an article, \"Star Laws\", jointly written by Henson and Arel Lucas and published in \"Reason Magazine\". Timothy Leary was influenced by Henson's work-and credited him in publications where he referred to Space Migration and Life Extension.\n\nIn 1985, having been convinced by Eric Drexler that nanotechnology provided a route to make it work, Henson, his wife, and their two-year-old daughter signed up with Alcor for cryonic suspension. Henson's daughter was the youngest member ever signed up to Alcor. Following the Dora Kent problems, Henson became increasingly active with Alcor. After Alcor had to freeze their chief surgeon, he learned enough surgery to put several cryonics patients on cardiac bypass. He also wrote a column for Alcor's magazine, \"Cryonics\", for a few years. Henson persuaded Timothy Leary to become an Alcor Member-although Leary eventually dropped his membership.\n\nIn that same year, Henson moved to Silicon Valley, consulting for a number of firms, and eventually debugging garbage collection software for the last stage of Project Xanadu. He was still working for the company that bought the Xanadu license when Scientology lawyer Helena Kobrin tried to destroy the news group alt.religion.scientology. and later e-mailed legal warnings to participants who had quoted as few as six lines of Scientology texts.\n\nHenson's wife, Arel Lucas, was credited by Douglas Hofstadter in \"Metamagical Themas\" for suggesting the study of memes be called memetics. Henson wrote two articles on memes in 1987, one published in \"Analog.\" The other, \"Memes, MetaMemes and Politics,\" circulated on the internet before being printed.\n\nRichard Dawkins, who originated the concept of memes, approvingly cites in the second edition of his book \"The Selfish Gene\" Henson's coining of the neologism \"memeoids\" to refer to \"victims who have been taken over by a meme to the extent that their own survival becomes inconsequential.\"\n\nHenson has become one of the focal points of the ongoing struggle between the Church of Scientology and its critics, often referred to as Scientology versus the Internet. Henson entered the Scientology conflict when it was at its most heated, in the mid-1990s. In 1996, many of Scientology's secret writings were released onto the Internet, and the Church of Scientology embarked on a massive worldwide campaign to keep them from being spread to the general public. Henson examined these writings, entitled \"New Era Dianetics\" (NOTS), and from his examination of these secret documents, claimed that Scientology was committing medical fraud. The NOTS documents, he said, contained detailed instructions for the treatment of physical ailments and illnesses through the use of Scientology practices. A Supreme Court decision in 1971 had declared that Scientology's writings were meant for \"purely spiritual\" purposes, and all Scientology books published since then have included disclaimers stating that Scientology's E-meter device \"does nothing\" and does not cure any physical ailments. The NOTS procedures, Henson claimed, were a violation of this decision. To prove his claim, Henson posted two pages from the NOTS documents onto the Usenet newsgroup \"alt.religion.scientology\".\n\nThe Church of Scientology immediately initiated legal action, but Henson did not retract his claims. He was served with a lawsuit by the church's legal arm, the Religious Technology Center, (RTC). Henson defended himself. After a lengthy court battle involving massive amounts of paperwork, Henson was found guilty of copyright infringement. He was ordered to pay $75,000 in fines. Henson declared bankruptcy in response to the judgment. Henson began protesting Scientology regularly, standing outside Scientology's Gold Base, with a picket sign. The organization sought to obtain a restraining order, which failed.\n\nAs a result of this conflict, Henson was charged with three misdemeanors under California Law: making criminal threats (California Penal Code section 422), attempting to make criminal threats (California Penal Code section 422, charged pursuant to Penal Code 664, the \"general attempt\" statute), and threatening to interfere with freedom to enjoy a constitutional privilege. Sheriff's Detective Tony Greer, Riverside County lead investigator, said: \"In reviewing all of the Internet postings I did not see any direct threat of violence towards the church or any personnel of the church.\"\n\nThe jury verdict of the trial resulted in Henson being convicted of one of the three charges: \"interfering with a religion.\" This misdemeanor charge carried a prison term of six months. On the other two charges, the jury did not agree. Ken Hoden, the general manager of Golden Era Productions (the Church of Scientology's film production facility), claimed that Scientology's allegations against Henson had nothing to do with Scientology's Fair Game policy, and that no such policy existed.\n\nHenson stated his belief that if he went to prison, his life would be placed in jeopardy. Rather than serve his sentence, Henson chose to enter Canada and apply for political asylum. Henson lived quietly in Brantford for three years while he awaited the decision. His request was ultimately denied and, in 2005, he was ordered to present himself for deportation and transfer to US authorities. Instead, Henson fled to the United States and later presented himself to the Canadian consulate in Detroit. He then settled in Prescott, Arizona where he remained for two years until his arrest in 2007 by Arizona authorities.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation, as well as Henson's supporters on the USENET newsgroup \"alt.religion.scientology\", say that his trial was biased, unfair and a mockery of justice. Henson was prohibited by the trial judge, for example, from arguing that copying documents for the purpose of criticism is fair use. Henson's location as of February 3, 2007 was the Yavapai Detention Center in Prescott, Arizona, awaiting possible extradition to Riverside County, California. At the \"initial appearance\" hearing on February 5, 2007, Henson stated through counsel that he was fighting extradition and requested release.\n\nJudge Lindberg set a court date for March 5, 2007 in the Prescott Justice Court, and fixed the security for release at $7,500 cash or bond, with standard conditions. Henson's release on bond was secured. In spite of these distractions, Henson finished a space elevator presentation for a European Space Agency conference. The paper was presented by proxy on February 28, 2007.\n\nThe extradition hearing for Henson was postponed to May 8, 2007, at the request of Henson's attorney and the County attorney. At his release from jail, Henson was handed paper work from Riverside County, including a warrant from September 15, 2000. At the May 8, 2007 hearing, Henson was presented with an arrest warrant, and returned to jail. In 2007, Henson was jailed in Riverside, California for \"using threats of force to interfere with another's exercise of civil rights\". He was released in early September 2007.\n\nFrom 2007 on, Henson worked independently and with others on the problems of global energy supply and affordable cost, particularly on \"power satellites\" for space-based solar power. There he was particularly concerned with launch cost, system mass, waste heat, heat radiators, and economics.\n\nThe power satellite work was reported in a series of articles starting with two posted on The Oil Drum \n, and three presented at IEEE SusTech conferences for Sustainable Technology. Henson also was involved in producing videos about beamed energy propulsion and thermal power satellites , the latter of which won an award in international competition. (See Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 18 under Works, below.)\n\nA shorter version was shown at the White House in the last days of the Obama Administration by Lt. Col Peter Garretson and Dr. Paul Jaffe as part of the D3 government-wide contest. See and .\n\nAdditionally, he worked over a year for Ed Kelly on StratoSolar when it seemed possible that \"high altitude lighter-than-air\" StratoSolar could beat the projected cost of power satellites. (It may not, but the estimated cost of StratoSolar power with storage puts a ceiling on what electricity from space can be sold for.)\n\nHenson visited Reaction Engines in the UK twice, in 2012 on the way back from a power satellite presentation in Germany (\"Economic feedback for low-cost solar energy from space\") and in 2016 when he gave a two-hour presentation to the engineering department of REL . The latter, plus other, later discussions set the rate of expansion for producing Skylon rocket planes used in the \"power satellite\" business cases.\n\nIn early 2015 Henson created the Google group Power Satellite Economics where various concerned citizens and experts from many fields discuss the complexities and benefits of \"power satellites\" and related work .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19023537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19023537", "title": "Land Transport Management Amendment Act 2008", "text": "Land Transport Management Amendment Act 2008\n\nThe New Zealand Land Transport Management Amendment Act 2008 came into force on 1 August 2008.\n\nOne of its outcomes was the merging of Transit New Zealand and Land Transport New Zealand to form the NZ Transport Agency.\n\n"}
{"id": "26462283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26462283", "title": "List of law schools in Uganda", "text": "List of law schools in Uganda\n\nThis is a list of accredited institutions offering law courses in Uganda, .\n\n"}
{"id": "2010310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010310", "title": "Martial law in Poland", "text": "Martial law in Poland\n\nMartial law in Poland () refers to the period of time from December 13, 1981 to July 22, 1983, when the authoritarian communist government of the Polish People's Republic drastically restricted normal life by introducing martial law in an attempt to crush political opposition. Thousands of opposition activists were jailed without charge and as many as 91 killed. Although martial law was lifted in 1983, many of the political prisoners were not released until a general amnesty in 1986.\n\nLed by General of the Army Wojciech Jaruzelski and the Military Council of National Salvation (\"Wojskowa Rada Ocalenia Narodowego\", WRON) usurped for itself powers reserved for wartime, hence the name. The plan was presented to the government of the Soviet Union before the declaration in March 1981.\n\nAppearing on Polish television at 6:00 AM on December 13, 1981, General Jaruzelski said:\nToday I address myself to you as a soldier and as the head of the Polish government. I address you concerning extraordinarily important questions. Our homeland is at the edge of an abyss. The achievements of many generations and the Polish home that has been built up from the dust are about to turn into ruins. State structures are ceasing to function. Each day delivers new blows to the waning economy./.../<br>The atmosphere of conflicts, misunderstanding, hatred causes moral degradation, surpasses the limits of toleration. Strikes, the readiness to strike, actions of protest have become a norm of life. Even school youth are being drawn into this. Yesterday evening, many public buildings remained seized. The cries are voiced to physical reprisals with the 'reds', with people who have different opinions. <br>The cases of terror, threats and moral vendetta, of even direct violence are on the rise. A wave of impudent crimes, robberies and burglaries is running across the country. The underground business sharks' fortunes, already reaching millions, are growing. Chaos and demoralization have reached the magnitude of a catastrophe. People have reached the limit of psychological toleration. Many people are struck by despair. Not only days, but hours as well are bringing forth the all-national disaster./.../<br>Citizens!<br>The load of responsibility that falls on me on this dramatic moment in the Polish history is huge. It is my duty to take this responsibility - concerning the future of Poland, that my generation fought for on all the fronts of the war and for which they sacrificed the best years of their life. I declare, that today the Military Council of National Salvation has been formed. In accordance with the Constitution, the State Council has imposed martial law all over the country. I wish that everyone understood the motives of our actions. A military coup, military dictatorship is not our goal./.../<br> In longer perspective, none of Poland's problems can be solved with the use of violence. The Military Council of National Salvation does not replace constitutional organs of power. Its only purpose is to keep the legal balance of the country, to create guarantees that give a chance to restore order and discipline. This is the ultimate way to bring the country out of the crisis, to save the country from collapse./.../<br>I appeal to all the citizens. A time of heavy trials has arrived. And we have to stand those in order to prove that we are worthy of Poland.<br>Before all the Polish people and the whole world I would like to repeat the immortal words: <br>\n\nGeneral Jaruzelski had ordered the Polish General Staff to update plans for nationwide martial law on October 22, 1980.\nAfter the introduction of martial law, pro-democracy movements such as Solidarity and other smaller organisations were banned, and their leaders, including Lech Wałęsa, jailed overnight. In the morning, thousands of soldiers in military vehicles appeared on the streets of every major city. A curfew was imposed, the national borders sealed, airports closed, and road access to main cities restricted. Telephone lines were disconnected, mail subject to renewed postal censorship, all independent official organizations were criminalized, and classes in schools and universities suspended.\n\nDuring the initial imposition of martial law, several dozen people were killed. Official reports during the crackdown claimed about a dozen fatalities, while a parliamentary commission in the years 1989-1991 arrived at a figure of over 90. In the deadliest incident, nine coal miners were killed by ZOMO paramilitary police during the strike-breaking at the Pacification of Wujek on December 16, 1981. Others were also killed and wounded during a massive second wave of demonstrations on August 31, 1982.\n\nThe government imposed a six-day work week while the mass media, public services, healthcare services, power stations, coal mines, sea ports, railway stations, and most key factories were placed under military management, with employees having to follow military orders or face a court martial. As part of the crackdown, media and educational institutions underwent \"verification\", a process that tested each employee's attitude towards the regime and to the Solidarity movement; as a result, thousands of journalists, teachers and professors were banned from their professions. Military courts were established to bypass the normal court system, to imprison those spreading \"false information\". In an attempt to crush resistance, civilian phone lines were routinely tapped and monitored by government agents.\n\nAt the invitation of Jaruzelski, a delegation of the ruling Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party visited Poland between December 27 and 29. The Hungarians shared with their Polish colleagues their experiences on crushing the 'counterrevolution' of 1956. Earlier in the autumn of 1981, Polish television had broadcast a special film on the 1956 events in Hungary, showing scenes of rebels hanging security officers etc.\n\nThe introduction of martial law was enthusiastically supported by some figures on the radical right like Jędrzej Giertych, who believed Solidarity to be a disguised communist movement dominated by Jewish Trotskyites.\n\nEven after martial law was lifted, a number of restrictions remained in place for several years that drastically reduced the civil liberties of the citizenry. It also led to severe economic consequences. The ruling military dictatorship instituted major price rises (dubbed \"economic reforms\"), which resulted in a fall in real wages of 20% or more. The resulting economic crisis led to the rationing of most products and materials, including basic foodstuffs.\n\nAs a consequence of economic hardship and political repression, an exodus of Poles saw 700,000 emigrate to the West between 1981 and 1989. \nA number of international flights were even hijacked in attempts to flee the country and its economic problems. Between December 1980 and October 1983, 11 Polish flights were hijacked to Berlin Tempelhof Airport alone.\n\nAround the same time, a group calling themselves the \"Polish Revolutionary Home Army\" seized the Polish Embassy in Bern, Switzerland on 6 September 1982, taking several diplomats as hostages. However this turned out to be an apparent provocation by the communist Polish secret services aiming to discredit the Solidarity movement.\n\nAfter the \"Wujek\" Coal Mine incident in Katowice on December 23, 1981, the United States imposed economic sanctions against the People's Republic of Poland. In 1982 the United States suspended most favored nation trade status until 1987 and vetoed Poland's application for membership in the International Monetary Fund.\n\nAfter the fall of Communism in Poland in 1989, members of a parliamentary commission determined that martial law had been imposed in clear violation of the country's constitution which had authorized the executive to declare martial law only between parliamentary sessions (at other times the decision was to be taken by the Sejm). However, the Sejm had been in session at the time when martial law was instituted. In 1992 the Sejm declared the 1981 imposition of martial law to be unlawful and unconstitutional.\n\nThe instigators of the martial law, such as Wojciech Jaruzelski, argue that the army crackdown rescued Poland from a possibly disastrous military intervention of the Soviet Union, East Germany, and other Warsaw Pact countries (similar to the earlier interventions in Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968). Public figures who supported the introduction of martial law (including some of the right-wing figures like Jędrzej Giertych) would also refer to that threat.\n\nIn 2009, archive documents hinted that in a conversation Jaruzelski had with Viktor Kulikov, a Soviet military leader, Jaruzelski himself begged for Soviet intervention as his domestic control was deteriorating. Jaruzelski responded by claiming the document was 'just another falsification'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "199160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199160", "title": "Militarism", "text": "Militarism\n\nMilitarism is the belief or the desire of a government or a people that a state should maintain a strong military capability and to use it aggressively to expand national interests and/or values. It may also imply the glorification of the military and of the ideals of a professional military class and the \"predominance of the armed forces in the administration or policy of the state\" (see also: stratocracy and military junta).\n\nMilitarism has been a significant element of the imperialist or expansionist ideologies of several nations throughout history. Prominent examples include the Ancient Assyrian Empire, the Greek city state of Sparta, the Roman Empire, the Aztec nation, the Kingdom of Prussia, the Habsburg/Habsburg-Lorraine Monarchies, the Ottoman Empire, the Empire of Japan, the Soviet Union, Nazi Germany, the Italian Empire during the rule of Benito Mussolini, the German Empire, the British Empire, and the First French Empire under Napoleon.\n\nThe roots of German militarism can be found in 19th-century Prussia and the subsequent unification of Germany under Prussian leadership. After Napoleon Bonaparte conquered Prussia in 1806, one of the conditions of peace was that Prussia should reduce its army to no more than 42,000 men. In order that the country should not again be so easily conquered, the King of Prussia enrolled the permitted number of men for one year, then dismissed that group, and enrolled another of the same size, and so on. Thus, in the course of ten years, he was able to gather an army of 420,000 men who had at least one year of military training. The officers of the army were drawn almost entirely from among the land-owning nobility. The result was that there was gradually built up a large class of professional officers on the one hand, and a much larger class, the rank and file of the army, on the other. These enlisted men had become conditioned to obey implicitly all the commands of the officers, creating a class-based culture of deference.\n\nThis system led to several consequences. Since the officer class also furnished most of the officials for the civil administration of the country, the interests of the army came to be considered as identical to the interests of the country as a whole. A second result was that the governing class desired to continue a system which gave them so much power over the common people, contributing to the continuing influence of the Junker noble classes.\nMilitarism in Germany continued after World War I and the fall of the German monarchy. During the period of the Weimar Republic (1919–1933), the Kapp Putsch, an attempted coup d'état against the republican government, was launched by disaffected members of the armed forces. After this event, some of the more radical militarists and nationalists were submerged in grief and despair into the NSDAP, while more moderate elements of militarism declined. The Third Reich was a strongly militarist state; after its fall in 1945, militarism in German culture was dramatically reduced as a backlash against the Nazi period.\n\nThe Federal Republic of Germany today maintains a large, modern military and has one of the highest defence budgets in the world, although the defence budget accounts for less than 1.5 percent of Germany's GDP, is lower than e.g. that of France or Great Britain, and does not meet the 2 percent goal,\nlike most other NATO members.\n\nThe rise of militarism in India dates back to the British Raj with the establishment of several Indian independence movement organizations such as the Indian National Army led by Subhas Chandra Bose. The Indian National Army (INA) played a crucial role in pressuring the British Raj after it occupied the Andaman and Nicobar Islands with the help of Imperial Japan, but the movement lost momentum due to lack of support by the Indian National Congress, the Battle of Imphal, and Bose's sudden death.\n\nAfter India gained independence in 1947, tensions with neighboring Pakistan over the Kashmir dispute and other issues led the Indian government to emphasize military preparedness (see also the political integration of India). After the Sino-Indian War in 1962, India dramatically expanded its military prowess which helped India emerge victorious during the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971. India became the second Asian country in the world to possess nuclear weapons, culminating in the tests of 1998. The Kashmiri insurgency and recent events including the Kargil War against Pakistan, assured that the Indian government remained committed to military expansion.\n\nIn recent years the government has increased the military expenditure across all branches and embarked on a rapid modernization programme.\n\nIsrael's many Arab–Israeli conflicts since the Declaration of the Establishment of the State have led to a prominence of security and defense in politics and civil society, resulting in many of Israel's former high-ranking military leaders becoming top politicians. (partial list: Yitzhak Rabin, Ariel Sharon, Ezer Weizman, Ehud Barak, Shaul Mofaz, Moshe Dayan, Yitzhak Mordechai, and Amram Mitzna).\n\nIn parallel with 20th-century German militarism, Japanese militarism began with a series of events by which the military gained prominence in dictating Japan's affairs. This was evident in 15th-century Japan's \"Sengoku\" period or \"Age of Warring States\", where powerful samurai warlords (\"daimyōs\") played a significant role in Japanese politics. Japan's militarism is deeply rooted in the ancient samurai tradition, centuries before Japan's modernization. Even though a militarist philosophy was intrinsic to the shogunates, a nationalist style of militarism developed after the Meiji Restoration, which restored the Emperor to power and began the Empire of Japan. It is exemplified by the 1882 Imperial Rescript to Soldiers and Sailors, which called for all members of the armed forces to have an absolute personal loyalty to the Emperor.\n\nIn the 20th century (approximately in the 1920s), two factors contributed both to the power of the military and chaos within its ranks. One was the Cabinet Law, which required the Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) and Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) to nominate servinet could be formed. This essentially gave the military veto power over the formation of any Cabinet in the ostensibly parliamentary country. Another factor was \"gekokujō\", or institutionalized disobedience by junior officers. It was not uncommon for radical junior officers to press their goals, to the extent of assassinating their seniors. In 1936, this phenomenon resulted in the February 26 Incident, in which junior officers attempted a coup d'état and killed leading members of the Japanese government. The rebellion enraged Emperor Hirohito and he ordered its suppression, which was successfully carried out by loyal members of the military.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Great Depression wrecked Japan's economy and gave radical elements within the Japanese military the chance to realize their ambitions of conquering all of Asia. In 1931, the Kwantung Army (a Japanese military force stationed in Manchuria) staged the Mukden Incident, which sparked the Invasion of Manchuria and its transformation into the Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo. Six years later, the Marco Polo Bridge Incident outside Peking sparked the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937–1945). Japanese troops streamed into China, conquering Peking, Shanghai, and the national capital of Nanking; the last conquest was followed by the Nanking Massacre. In 1940, Japan entered into an alliance with Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy, two similarly militaristic states in Europe, and advanced out of China and into Southeast Asia. This brought about the intervention of the United States, which embargoed all petroleum to Japan. The embargo eventually precipitated the Attack on Pearl Harbor and the entry of the U.S. into World War II.\n\nIn 1945, Japan surrendered to the United States, beginning the Occupation of Japan and the purging of all militarist influences from Japanese society and politics. In 1947, the new Constitution of Japan supplanted the Meiji Constitution as the fundamental law of the country, replacing the rule of the Emperor with parliamentary government. With this event, the Empire of Japan officially came to an end and the modern State of Japan was founded.\n\nSŏn'gun (often transliterated \"songun\"), North Korea's \"Military First\" policy, regards military power as the highest priority of the country. This has escalated so much in the DPRK that one in five people serves in the armed forces, and the military has become one of the largest in the world.\n\n\"Songun\" elevates the Korean People's Armed Forces within North Korea as an organization and as a state function, granting it the primary position in the North Korean government and society. The principle guides domestic policy and international interactions.\nIt provides the framework of the government, designating the military as the \"supreme repository of power\". It also facilitates the militarization of non-military sectors by emphasizing the unity of the military and the people by spreading military culture among the masses. The North Korean government grants the Korean People's Army as the highest priority in the economy and in resource-allocation, and positions it as the model for society to emulate. \n\"Songun\" is also the ideological concept behind a shift in policies (since the death of Kim Il-sung in 1994) which emphasize the people's military over all other aspects of state and the interests of the military comes first before the masses (workers).\n\nIn the Pre-Colonial era, the Filipino people had their own forces, divided between the islands which each had its own ruler. They were called \"Sandig\" (Guards), \"Kawal\" (Knights), and \"Tanod\". They also served as the police and watchers on the land, coastlines and seas. In 1521, The Visayan King of Mactan \"Lapu-Lapu\" of Cebu, organized the first recorded military action against the Spanish colonizers, in the Battle of Mactan.\n\nIn the 19th century during the Philippine Revolution, Andrés Bonifacio founded the Katipunan, a revolutionary organization against Spain at the Cry of Pugad Lawin. Some notable battles were the Siege of Baler, The Battle of Imus, Battle of Kawit, Battle of Nueva Ecija, the victorious Battle of Alapan and the famous Twin Battles of Binakayan and Dalahican. During Independence, the President General Emilio Aguinaldo established the \"Magdalo\", a faction separate from \"Katipunan\", and he declared the Revolutionary Government in the constitution of the First Philippine Republic.\n\nAnd during the Filipino-American War, the General Antonio Luna as a High-Ranking General, He Ordered a Conscription to all Citizens, a mandatory form of National Services (at any War's) for the increase the density and the manpower of the Philippine Army.\n\nDuring World War II, the Philippines was one of the participants, as a member of Allied Forces, the Philippines with the U.S. Forces fought the Imperial Japanese Army, (1942–1945) the notable battles is the victorious Battle of Manila, which also called \"The Liberation\".\n\nDuring the 1970s the President Ferdinand Marcos declared P.D.1081 or martial law, which also made the Philippines a garrison state. By the Philippine Constabulary (PC) and Integrated National Police (INP), The High-School or Secondary and College Education have a compulsory Curriculum concerning the Military, and nationalism which is the \"Citizens Military Training\" (CMT) And \"Reserve Officers Training Corps\" (ROTC).\nBut in 1986, when the constitution changed, this form of National Service Training Program became non-compulsory but still part of the Basic Education.\n\nMilitarism has a long history in Turkey.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire lasted for centuries and always relied on its military might, but militarism was not a part of everyday life. Militarism was only introduced into daily life with the advent of modern institutions, particularly schools, which became part of the state apparatus when the Ottoman Empire was succeeded by a new nation state – the Republic of Turkey – in 1923. The founders of the republic were determined to break with the past and modernise the country. There was, however, an inherent contradiction in that their modernist vision was limited by their military roots. The leading reformers were all military men and, in keeping with the military tradition, all believed in the authority and the sacredness of the state. The public also believed in the military. It was the military, after all, who led the nation through the War of Liberation (1919–1923) and saved the motherland. The 2016 attempted coup highlights the military influences within the country.\n\nIn the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries political and military leaders reformed the US federal government to establish a stronger central government than had ever previously existed for the purpose of enabling the nation to pursue an imperial policy in the Pacific and in the Caribbean and economic militarism to support the development of the new industrial economy. This reform was the result of a conflict between Neo-Hamiltonian Republicans and Jeffersonian-Jacksonian Democrats over the proper administration of the state and direction of its foreign policy. The conflict pitted proponents of professionalism, based on business management principles, against those favoring more local control in the hands of laymen and political appointees. The outcome of this struggle, including a more professional federal civil service and a strengthened presidency and executive branch, made a more expansionist foreign policy possible.\n\nAfter the end of the American Civil War the national army fell into disrepair. Reforms based on various European states including Britain, Germany, and Switzerland were made so that it would become responsive to control from the central government, prepared for future conflicts, and develop refined command and support structures; these reforms led to the development of professional military thinkers and cadre.\n\nDuring this time the ideas of Social Darwinism helped propel American overseas expansion in the Pacific and Caribbean. This required modifications for a more efficient central government due to the added administration requirements (see above).\n\nThe enlargement of the U.S. Army for the Spanish–American War was considered essential to the occupation and control of the new territories acquired from Spain in its defeat (Guam, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, and Cuba). The previous limit by legislation of 24,000 men was expanded to 60,000 regulars in the new army bill on 2 February 1901, with allowance at that time for expansion to 80,000 regulars by presidential discretion at times of national emergency.\n\nU.S. forces were again enlarged immensely for World War I. Officers such as George S. Patton were permanent captains at the start of the war and received temporary promotions to colonel.\n\nBetween the first and second world wars, the US Marine Corps engaged in questionable activities in the Banana Wars in Latin America. Retired Major General Smedley Butler, who was at the time of his death the most decorated Marine, spoke strongly against what he considered to be trends toward fascism and militarism. Butler briefed Congress on what he described as a Business Plot for a military coup, for which he had been suggested as leader; the matter was partially corroborated, but the real threat has been disputed. The Latin American expeditions ended with Franklin D. Roosevelt's Good Neighbor policy of 1934.\n\nAfter World War II, there were major cutbacks, such that units responding early in the Korean War under United Nations authority (e.g., Task Force Smith) were unprepared, resulting in catastrophic performance. It should be noted that when Harry S. Truman fired Douglas MacArthur, the tradition of civilian control held and MacArthur left without any hint of military coup.\n\nThe Cold War resulted in serious permanent military buildups. Dwight D. Eisenhower, a retired top military commander elected as a civilian President, warned, as he was leaving office, of the development of a military-industrial complex. In the Cold War, there emerged many civilian academics and industrial researchers, such as Henry Kissinger and Herman Kahn, who had significant input into the use of military force. The complexities of nuclear strategy and the debates surrounding them helped produce a new group of 'defense intellectuals' and think tanks, such as the Rand Corporation (where Kahn, among others, worked).\n\nIt has been argued that the United States has shifted to a state of neomilitarism since the end of the Vietnam War. This form of militarism is distinguished by the reliance on a relatively small number of volunteer fighters; heavy reliance on complex technologies; and the rationalization and expansion of government advertising and recruitment programs designed to promote military service.\n\nThe direct military budget of the United States for 2008 was $740,800,000,000.\n\nMilitarism in Venezuela follows the cult and myth of Simón Bolívar, known as the liberator of Venezuela. For much of the 1800s, Venezuela was ruled by powerful, militarists leaders known as \"caudillos\". Between 1892 and 1900 alone, six rebellions occurred and 437 military actions were taken to obtain control of Venezuela. With the military controlling Venezuela for much of its history, the country practiced a \"military ethos\", with civilians today still believing that military intervention in the government is positive, especially during times of crisis, with many Venezuelans believing that the military opens democratic opportunities instead of blocking them.\nMuch of the modern political movement behind the Fifth Republic of Venezuela, ruled by the Bolivarian government established by Hugo Chávez, was built on the following of Bolívar and such militaristic ideals. Chávez often used Bolivarian propaganda to glorify the military, with Manuel Anselmi explaining in \"Chávez's Children: Ideology, Education, and Society in Latin America\", that \"To get an idea of the importance of Bolivarian propaganda as a source of alternative political education one can use the testimony of Hugo Chávez himself\". Chávez explained how he had \"read the classics of socialism and of military theory and study the possible role of the army in a democratic popular revolt\". In 1999 following the election of Hugo Chávez into the presidency, author Carlos Alberto Montaner described Chávez \"as the new Venezuelan caudillo who would reformulate Venezuelan politics at his will\".\n\nAs Chávez took power of Venezuela, his influencer, left-wing Argentine sociologist Norberto Ceresole, helped Chávez establish the Bolivarian movement in the shadow of Simón Bolívar's following, with Ceresole stating that:\n\nAccording to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, under the Chávez presidency between 2004 and 2008, Venezuela moved from 55th place in arms importing to 18th, acquiring nearly $2 billion worth of weaponry from Russia. Domingo Alberto Rangel, founder of the Marxist Venezuelan political Revolutionary Left Movement, explained that Chávez's description of a movement being \"Bolivarian\" and \"socialist\" was contradictory, saying this \"is tolerated and continues because the regime is both military and militaristic. ... Those who monopolize the decision in this regime are military men\".\nChávez's handpicked successor, Nicolás Maduro, relied on the military to maintain power when he was elected into office, with Luis Manuel Esculpi, a Venezuelan security analyst, stating that \"The army is Maduro's only source of authority.\" Maduro grew more reliant on the military through his presidency, showing that Maduro was losing power as described by Amherst College professor, Javier Corrales. Corrales explains that \"From 2003 until Chavez died in 2013, the civilian wing was strong, so he did not have to fall back on the military. As civilians withdrew their support, Maduro was forced to resort to military force.\" \"The New York Times\" states that Maduro no longer had the oil revenue to buy loyalty for protection, instead relying on favorable exchange rates, as well as the smuggling of food and drugs, which \"also generate revenue\" for troops.\n\nHowever, it should be noted that Venezuela denies the aggressive use of its army , as PSUV and the Bolivarian ideology claim to be anti-imperialist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57885964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57885964", "title": "Ministry of Justice, Immigration and National Security (Dominica)", "text": "Ministry of Justice, Immigration and National Security (Dominica)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice, Immigration and National Security of Dominica provides legal advice and representation to the federal government and its departments, as well as administers justice, protects intellectual property rights, and ensures that financial crimes are properly analyzed and investigated. The divisions of the ministry include the following: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Blackmoore served as Minister of National Security, Labor & Immigration from 2007-2008; Charles Savarin served as Minister of National Security, Labor, & Immigration from 2008-2013; Roosevelt Skerrit served as Minister of National Security, Labor, & Immigration from 2013-2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "7667341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7667341", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Quebec)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Quebec)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice (French: Ministère de la Justice) is responsible for the administration of courts and prosecutors in Quebec, Canada. The Minister is automatically the Attorney General, and Registrar of Quebec.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice was created by the Department of Justice Act, which came into effect on June 4, 1965, making Quebec the first Canadian province to have a department of justice. The first Minister appointed under the new Act was Claude Wagner.\n\nPrior to 1965, the senior justice official in the province was the Attorney General. This role was created in 1867 replacing the role of Attorney General of Canada East and before 1841 the Attorney General of Lower Canada.\n\nIn 1975, a working paper, \"La Justice Contemporaine\", proposed a comprehensive vision of the justice system in Quebec, and recommended unification of the provincial trial courts The Court of Quebec was not established until 1988, after the merging of Provincial Court, the Court of the Sessions of the Peace and the Youth Court.\n\nThe current minister is Sonia LeBel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45154015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45154015", "title": "Mouthshut.com v. Union of India", "text": "Mouthshut.com v. Union of India\n\nMouthShut.com v. Union of India was a case- a writ petition in the Supreme Court of India filed by the consumer review social media company Mouthshut.com to protect freedom of speech and expression on Internet. It argued against Sec. 66A and prayed for modifications or nullification of IT Rules and Section 79 of the Information Technology Act of India. The Supreme Court, in a historic judgement on March 24, 2015, ruled in favor of the petitioner(s) and repealed Sec. 66A, declaring it as unconstitutional and ordered reading down of various other sections of the IT Act, including section 79 and the IT Rules. As a result, Internet users are free to post anything online and publishers cannot be forced to take down content without a court order. This applies to all user-generated content online\n\nThe lawsuit and its proceedings were monitored by online Intermediaries, ISPs, telecom service providers and social media companies in India as well as overseas. According to the Center for Communication Governance, \"this is one of the case under which India’s Supreme Court will define contours of free speech online.\"\n\nThe case was clubbed along with a petition filed by Shreya Singhal a law student, challenging India's IT Act's section 66A.\nBecause the hearing for all the petitions challenging the IT Act were clubbed together by a Supreme Court order, the matter is sometimes also referred as Shreya Singhal case. Before the verdict, CNN reported that \"...Mouthshut.com has taken its case to the country's Supreme Court to protect what it says are the rights of Indian citizens and consumers enshrined by the Indian constitution.\" \n\nMouthShut.com approached India's highest court- the Supreme Court of India arguing about the draconian effect of Sec. 66A. It also prayed that India's Information Technology Rules 2011 be nullified or modified. These petitions were filed in April 2013. Writ petition was filed by MouthShut.com under Article 32 of the Constitution as the IT Rules were violative of Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India.\n\nMouthshut.com contended that people who post reviews on the website are denied their fundamental right to freedom of expression due to the provisions of Sec. 66A. Besides, it said that the IT Rules pose a significant burden forcing them to screen content and exercise on-line censorship. While a private party may allege that certain content is defamatory or infringes copyright, such determinations are usually made by judges and involve factual inquiry and careful balancing of competing interests and factors, which the petitioners are not equipped to make. The petitioners receive notices and phone calls from cyber cells and police stations asking them to delete content and provide information of users, which makes the running of their business difficult.\n\nOn 29 April 2013, it was argued by Senior Counsel Mr. Harish Salve for the petitioner. Upon accepting the petition, Supreme Court Justice TS Thakur and Justice Sudhansho Mukhopadhya ordered the petition requires simultaneous hearing along with \" 'Shreya Singhal versus Union of India' \".\n\nLater, many other civil liberty organizations, NGOs, individuals and the Internet and Mobile Association of India filed their own petitions that have been tagged along with the main petitions.\n\nMouthshut.com's lead legal and general counsel is \"Mishi Chaudhary\" and her team at SFLC. They also received legal advice from and were represented by a battery of lawyers and senior counsels which included Adv. Harish Salve. Sr Counsel and Adv. Shyam Divan, Sr. Counsel. The Advocate on Record was Bina Madhavan of Lawyers Knit and Company. A two judge bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India comprising Justice J. Chelameshwar and Justice Rohinton F. Nariman heard the matter of the various clubbed petitions and delivered the final verdict on March 24, 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16468534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16468534", "title": "Munich Intellectual Property Law Center", "text": "Munich Intellectual Property Law Center\n\nThe Munich Intellectual Property Law Center (MIPLC) is a center for both research and education in intellectual property, founded in 2003 and based in Munich, Germany. The MIPLC is a project of the Max Planck Institute for Intellectual Property and Competition Law, the University of Augsburg, the Technische Universität München (TUM), and the George Washington University Law School. It offers an English-language LL.M. program on Intellectual Property and Competition Law.\n\nThe MIPLC furthermore organizes scientific conferences and IP training programs. It also offers Ph.D. programs for selected LL.M. graduates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17873289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17873289", "title": "Nanjing War Crimes Tribunal", "text": "Nanjing War Crimes Tribunal\n\nThe Nanjing War Crimes Tribunal was established in 1946 by the government of Chiang Kai-shek to judge four Japanese Imperial Army officers accused of crimes committed during the Second Sino-Japanese War. It was one of thirteen tribunals established by the Nationalist government.\n\nThe accused were Lieutenant General Hisao Tani, company commander Captain Gunkichi Tanaka and Second Lieutenants Toshiaki Mukai and Tsuyoshi Noda, made famous by the contest to kill 100 people using a sword.\n\nGeneral Yasuji Okamura was convicted of war crimes in July 1948 by the Tribunal, but was immediately protected by the personal order of Nationalist leader Chiang Kai-shek, who retained him as a military adviser for the Kuomintang (KMT). \nWhile he was questioned by the investigators, he however testified about the Nanking massacre:\n\nAs Iwane Matsui had been judged by the Tokyo tribunal; Prince Kotohito Kan'in, Kesago Nakajima and Heisuke Yanagawa had been dead since 1945; Isamu Cho had committed suicide and Prince Asaka had been granted immunity by General Douglas MacArthur as a member of the imperial family, Hisao Tani was the only officer prosecuted for the Nanking massacre. He was found guilty on 6 February 1947 and executed by a firing squad on 26 April. All the accused were sentenced to death in 1947.\n\nAccording to the verdict of the Tribunal for Tani, on 10 March 1947, there were \"more than 190,000 civilians and Chinese soldiers killed by machine gun whose corpses were burned to destroy proof. Besides, we count more than 150,000 victims of barbarous acts buried by the charity organizations. We thus have a total of more than 300,000 victims.\" This estimate was made from burial records and eyewitness accounts.\n\nThe death toll of 300,000 is the official estimate engraved on the stone wall at the entrance of the Memorial Hall for Compatriot Victims of the Japanese Military's Nanjing Massacre in Nanjing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19609792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19609792", "title": "Net capital rule", "text": "Net capital rule\n\nThe uniform net capital rule is a rule created by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") in 1975 to regulate directly the ability of broker-dealers to meet their financial obligations to customers and other creditors. Broker-dealers are companies that trade securities for customers (i.e., brokers) and for their own accounts (i.e., dealers).\n\nThe rule requires those firms to value their securities at market prices and to apply to those values a haircut (i.e., a discount) based on each security's risk characteristics. The haircut values of securities are used to compute the liquidation value of a broker-dealer's assets to determine whether the broker-dealer holds enough liquid assets to pay all its non-subordinated liabilities and to still retain a \"cushion\" of required liquid assets (i.e., the \"net capital\" requirement) to ensure payment of all obligations owed to customers if there is a delay in liquidating the assets.\n\nOn April 28, 2004, the SEC voted unanimously to permit the largest broker-dealers (i.e., those with \"tentative net capital\" of more than $5 billion) to apply for exemptions from this established \"haircut\" method. Upon receiving SEC approval, those firms were permitted to use mathematical models to compute the haircuts on their securities based on international standards used by commercial banks.\n\nSince 2008, many commentators on the financial crisis of 2007-2009 have identified the 2004 rule change as an important cause of the crisis on the basis it permitted certain large investment banks (i.e., Bear Stearns, Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, and Morgan Stanley) to increase dramatically their leverage (i.e., the ratio of their debt or assets to their equity). Financial reports filed by those companies show an increase in their leverage ratios from 2004 through 2007 (and into 2008), but financial reports filed by the same companies before 2004 show higher reported leverage ratios for four of the five firms in years before 2004.\n\nThe 2004 rule change remains in effect. The companies that received SEC approval to use its haircut computation method continue to use that method, subject to modifications that became effective January 1, 2010.\n\nBeginning in 2008, many observers remarked that the 2004 change to the SEC's net capital rule permitted investment banks to increase their leverage and this played a central role in the financial crisis of 2007-2009.\n\nThis position appears to have been first described by Lee A. Pickard, Director of the SEC's Division of Market Regulation (the former name of the current Division of Trading and Markets) at the time the SEC's uniform net capital rule was adopted in 1975. In an August 8, 2008, commentary, Mr. Pickard wrote that before the 2004 rule change, broker-dealers were limited in the amount of debt they could incur, to a ratio of about 12 times their net capital, but that they operated at significantly lower ratios. He concluded that, if they had been subject to the net capital rule as it existed before the 2004 rule change, broker-dealers would not have been able to incur their high debt levels without first having increased their capital bases. In what became a widely cited September 18, 2008, \"New York Sun\" article (the \"2008 NY Sun Article\"), Mr. Pickard was quoted as stating the SEC's 2004 rule change was the primary reason large losses were incurred at investment banks.\n\nPerhaps the most influential review of the 2004 rule change was an October 3, 2008, front page \"New York Times\" article titled \"Agency's '04 Rule Let Banks Pile Up New Debt\" (the \"2008 NY Times Article\"). That article explained the net capital rule applied to the \"brokerage units\" of investment banks and stated the 2004 rule change created \"an exemption\" from an old rule that limited the amount of debt they could take on. According to the article, the rule change unshackled \"billions of dollars held in reserve against losses\" and led to investment banks dramatically increasing their leverage.\n\nIn late 2008 and early 2009, prominent scholars such as Alan Blinder, John Coffee, Niall Ferguson, and Joseph Stiglitz explained (1) the old net capital rule limited investment bank leverage (defined as the ratio of debt to equity) to 12 (or 15) to 1 and (2) following the 2004 rule change, which relaxed or eliminated this restriction, investment bank leverage increased dramatically to 30 and even 40 to 1 or more. The investment bank leverage cited by these scholars was the leverage reported by the Consolidated Supervised Entity Holding Companies in their financial reports filed with the SEC.\n\nDaniel Gross wrote in \"Slate\" magazine: \"Going public allowed investment banks to get bigger, which then gave them the heft to mold the regulatory system to their liking. Perhaps the most disastrous decision of the past decade was the Securities and Exchange Commission's 2004 rule change allowing investment banks to increase the amount of debt they could take on their books—a move made at the request of the Gang of Five's CEOs.\" He was referring to the net capital rule change.\n\nIn connection with an investigation into the SEC's role in the collapse of Bear Stearns, in late September, 2008, the SEC's Division of Trading and Markets responded to an early formulation of this position by maintaining (1) it confuses leverage at the Bear Stearns holding company, which was never regulated by the net capital rule, with leverage at the broker-dealer subsidiaries covered by the net capital rule, and (2) before and after the 2004 rule change the broker-dealers covered by the 2004 rule change were subject to a net capital requirement equal to 2% of customer receivables not a 12 to 1 leverage test.\n\nIn an April 9, 2009, speech (\"2009 Sirri Speech\") Erik Sirri, then Director of the SEC's Division of Trading and Markets, expanded on this explanation by stating (1) the 2004 rule change did not affect the \"basic\" net capital rule that had a leverage limit (albeit one that excluded much broker-dealer debt), (2) an \"alternative\" net capital rule established in 1975 that did not contain a direct leverage limit applied to the broker-dealer subsidiaries of the five largest investment banks (and other large broker-dealers), and (3) neither form of the net capital rule was designed (nor operated) to constrain leverage at the investment bank holding company level, where leverage and, more important, risk was concentrated in business units other than broker-dealer subsidiaries.\n\nIn a July 2009 report, the Government Accountability Office (\"GAO\") reported that SEC staff had stated to the GAO that (1) CSE Brokers did not take on larger proprietary positions after applying reduced haircuts to those positions under the 2004 rule change and (2) leverage at those CSE Brokers was driven by customer margin loans, repurchase agreements, and stock lending, which were marked daily and secured by collateral that exposed the CSE Brokers to little if any risk. The report also stated officials at a former CSE Holding Company told the GAO they did not join the CSE program to increase leverage. The GAO confirmed that leverage at the CSE Holding Companies had been higher at the end of 1998 than at the end of 2006 just before the financial crisis began. The GAO report includes a comment letter from the SEC that reaffirms points raised in the 2009 Sirri Speech and states that commentators have \"mischaracterized\" the 2004 rule change as having allowed CSE Brokers to increase their leverage or as having been a major contributor to the financial crisis. The letter states that the CSE Broker \"tentative net capital\" levels \"remained relatively stable after they began operating under the 2004 amendments, and, in some cases, increased significantly.\"\n\nIt has been widely noted that all five of the investment bank holding companies affected by the 2004 rule change no longer exist as independent companies or have converted into bank holding companies. Less noted is that the five broker-dealers originally owned by those investment bank holding companies continue to compute their compliance with the SEC's net capital rule using the alternative net capital computation method established by the 2004 rule change. Under the 2004 rule change the difference is that those CSE Brokers (like Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and JP Morgan Securities Inc. before them) are now owned by bank holding companies subject to consolidated supervision by the Federal Reserve, not by the SEC under the CSE Program described below.\n\nIn her prepared testimony for a January 14, 2010, hearing before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission (\"FCIC\"), SEC Chair Mary Schapiro stated SEC staff had informed CSE Brokers in December 2009 that \"they will require that these broker-dealers take standardized net capital charges on less liquid mortgage and other asset-backed securities positions rather than using financial models to calculate net capital requirements.\" In her prepared testimony for an April 20, 2010, hearing before the House Financial Services Committee, Chairman Schapiro repeated this explanation and added that the new requirements took effect January 1, 2010. She also stated the SEC was reviewing whether the \"alternative net capital computation\" system established by the 2004 rule change \"should be substantially modified\" and more generally whether minimum net capital requirements should be increased for all broker-dealers.\n\nThe SEC's \"Uniform Net Capital Rule\" (the \"Basic Method\") was adopted in 1975 following a financial market and broker record-keeping crisis during the period from 1967-1970. In the same 1975 release that adopted the Basic Method, the SEC established the \"Alternative Net Capital Requirement for Certain Brokers and Dealers\" (the \"Alternative Method\"). The SEC had maintained a net capital rule since 1944, but had exempted broker-dealers subject to \"more comprehensive\" capital requirements imposed by identified exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The 1975 uniform net capital rule continued many features of the existing SEC net capital rule, but adopted other (more stringent) requirements of the NYSE net capital rule.\n\nBoth the Basic Method and the Alternative Method applied to broker-dealers. At no time did the SEC impose a net capital requirement on the holding company parent of a broker-dealer. Brokers buy and sell securities for the account of customers. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 had given the SEC authority to regulate the financial condition of broker-dealers to provide customers some assurance that their broker could meet its obligations to them.\n\nHolding companies that owned broker-dealers were treated like other \"unregulated\" companies to which parties extend credit based on their own judgments without the assurance provided by regulatory oversight of a company's financial condition. In practice, the \"independent check\" on such financial condition became the rating agencies. In order to conduct their dealer and other credit sensitive activities, the large investment bank holding companies managed their leverage and overall financial condition to achieve at least the \"A\" credit rating considered necessary for such activities. Each of the investment banks that became a CSE Holding Company stressed the importance of a \"net leverage\" measure that excluded collateralized customer financing arrangements and other \"low risk\" assets in determining \"net assets.\" This net leverage ratio was used by one rating agency in assessing investment bank capital strength and produced a leverage ratio much lower than the \"gross leverage\" ratio computed from total assets and shareholders' equity.\n\nThe SEC has stated the net capital rule is intended to require \"every broker-dealer to maintain at all times specified minimum levels of liquid assets, or net capital, sufficient to enable a firm that falls below its minimum requirement to liquidate in an orderly fashion.\" The Basic Method tries to reach this goal by measuring such \"liquid assets\" of the broker-dealer against most of its unsecured indebtedness. The \"liquid assets\" serve as the \"cushion\" to cover full repayment of that unsecured debt. The Alternative Method instead measures the \"liquid assets\" against obligations owed by customers to the broker-dealer. The \"liquid assets\" serve as the \"cushion\" for the broker-dealer's recovery of the full amounts owed to it by customers.\n\nAlthough the Basic and Alternative Methods end with these different tests, both begin by requiring a broker-dealer to compute its \"net capital.\" To do so, the broker-dealer first computes its equity under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\"GAAP\") by marking to market securities and other assets and then reduces that computation by the amount of \"illiquid assets\" it holds. The broker-dealer adds to this total the amount of any \"qualifying subordinated debt\" it owes. This preliminary amount is the broker-dealer's \"tentative net capital.\" After so computing \"tentative net capital\" the broker-dealer adjust that amount by making further reductions in the value of its securities based on percentage reductions (\"haircuts\") in their market value. The amount of the \"haircut\" applied to a security depends upon its perceived \"risk characteristics.\" A stock portfolio, for example, would have a haircut of 15%, while a 30-year U.S. treasury bond, because it is less risky, would have a 6% haircut.\n\nIn theory, a calculation of \"net capital\" greater than zero would mean the \"liquid assets\" owned by a broker-dealer could be sold to repay all its obligations, even those not then due, other than any qualifying subordinated debt that the net capital rule treated as equity. Nevertheless, both the Basic and Alternative Method imposed a second step under which broker-dealers were required to compute a \"cushion of liquid assets in excess of liabilities to cover potential market, credit, and other risks if they should be required to liquidate.\" This cushion could also be used to pay continuing operating costs while the broker-dealer liquidated, an issue particularly important for small broker-dealers with small absolute dollar amounts of required net capital.\n\nBecause the required net capital amount is a \"cushion\" or \"buffer\" to cover a broker-dealer's continuing operating costs as it liquidates and any exceptional losses in selling assets already discounted in computing net capital, the required level of net capital is measured against a much more limited amount of liabilities or assets than described (or assumed) by the commentators in Section 1.1 above. The \"second step\" in both the Basic Method and the Alternative Method makes this measurement.\n\nFor this second step, the Basic Method adopted the traditional liability coverage test that had long been imposed by the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") and other \"self regulatory\" exchanges on their members and by the SEC on broker-dealers that were not members of such an exchange. Using that approach, the SEC required that a broker-dealer subject to the Basic Method maintain \"net capital\" equal to at least 6-2/3% of its \"aggregate indebtedness.\" This is commonly referred to as a 15 to 1 leverage limit, because it meant \"aggregate indebtedness\" could not be more than 15 times the amount of \"net capital.\" \"Aggregate indebtedness\", however, excluded \"adequately secured debt\", subordinated debt and other specified liabilities, so that even the Basic Method did not limit to 15 to 1 a broker-dealer's overall leverage computed from a GAAP financial statement.\n\nIn practice, broker-dealers are heavily financed through repurchase agreements and other forms of secured borrowing. Their leverage computed from a GAAP balance sheet would, therefore, usually be higher (possibly much higher) than the ratio of their \"aggregate indebtedness\" to \"net capital\", which is the \"leverage\" ratio tested by the Basic Method. This exclusion of secured debt from the \"aggregate indebtedness\" test is broader than, but similar to, the rating agency approach to excluding certain secured debt in computing net leverage described in Section 2.1 above.\n\nThe Alternative Method was optional for broker-dealers that computed \"aggregate debit items\" owed by customers in accordance with the \"customer reserve formula\" established by the SEC's 1972 segregation rules for customer assets. Under its second step, a broker-dealer using the Alternative Method was required to maintain \"net capital\" equal to at least 4% of \"aggregate debit items\" owed by customers to the broker-dealer. This approach assumed receipts from amounts owed by customers would be used, along with the net capital cushion consisting of \"liquid assets\", to satisfy the broker-dealer's obligations to its customers, and to meet any administrative costs, in a liquidation of the broker-dealer's business. The net capital in the form of \"liquid assets\" of the broker-dealer, however, was not required to be separately escrowed for the exclusive benefit of customers.\n\nThe Alternative Method did not directly regulate the overall leverage of a broker-dealer. As the SEC explained in adopting the net capital rule, the Alternative Method \"indicates to other creditors with whom the broker or dealer may deal what portion of its liquid assets in excess of that required to protect customers is available to meet other commitments of the broker or dealer.\"\n\nIn 1982 the net capital required under the Alternative Method was reduced to 2% of customer indebtedness. This meant customer receivables could not exceed 50 times the broker-dealers net capital. Neither at 2% nor at 4% required net capital did the resulting implicit 25 to 1 or 50 to 1 leverage limit on assets apply to a broker-dealer's overall assets. The 2% or 4% capital requirement was solely for customer assets (i.e., amounts owed by customers to the broker-dealer).\n\nThe 2009 Sirri Speech noted that the \"early warning requirements\" under the net capital rule were the \"effective limits\" for the CSE Brokers. Aside from the $5 billion tentative net capital reporting requirement established for CSE Brokers in the 2004 rule change, the SEC required before and after 2004 \"early warning\" notice to the SEC if a broker-dealer's net capital fell below a specified level higher than the required minimum that would trigger a broker-dealer liquidation. Upon providing such notice, a broker-dealer would become subject to closer supervision and would be prohibited from making capital distributions. Such distributions are also prohibited if they would trigger an early warning requirement.\n\nEach broker-dealer was required to issue an \"early warning\" if its net capital dropped to less than 120% of the broker-dealer's absolute dollar minimum requirement. For broker-dealers using the Basic Method an \"early warning\" was required if their \"aggregate indebtedness\" became more than 12 times the amount of their \"net capital.\" The 2009 Sirri Speech suggests this is the likely source for the widely stated proposition that broker-dealers were subject to a 12 to 1 leverage limit. For broker-dealers using the Alternative Method, such as all the CSE Brokers, there was an \"early warning\" requirement if their \"aggregate debit items\" became more than 20 times the amount of their net capital (i.e., if net capital did not at least equal 5% of aggregate debit items).\n\nThe uniform net capital rule was introduced in 1975 at a time of great change in the brokerage industry. The contemporaneous elimination of fixed commissions is often cited as reducing broker profitability and leading to a greater emphasis on \"proprietary trading\" and other \"principal transactions.\"\n\nFollowing enactment of the SEC's uniform net capital rule in 1975 reported overall leverage at broker-dealers increased. In a 1980 Release proposing changes in the \"haircuts\" used for net capital computations, the SEC noted aggregate broker-dealer leverage had increased from 7.44 and 7.45 to 1 debt to equity ratios in 1974 and 1975 to a ratio of 17.95 to 1 in 1979. The GAO found that by 1991 the average leverage ratio for thirteen large broker-dealers it studied was 27 to 1. The average among nine was even higher.\n\nThe same 1980 SEC Release noted a clear distinction in the application of the net capital rule. Most broker-dealers used the Basic Method. Large broker-dealers, which increasingly held the great majority of customer balances, used the Alternative Method. Reflecting this division, all of the large broker-dealers owned by investment bank holding companies that would become CSE Brokers after the 2004 rule change described below used the Alternative Method.\n\nThere are two recognized obstacles to adopting the Alternative Method. First, the $250,000 absolute minimum net capital requirement under the Alternative Method can be lower under the Basic Method if a broker-dealer limits its customer activities. This keeps many small broker-dealers from adopting the Alternative Method.\n\nSecond, to adopt the Alternative Method a broker-dealer must compute the \"aggregate debit balances\" owed by customers under the \"customer reserve formula\" specified by SEC Rule 15c3-3. Many small broker-dealers prefer to comply with one of the three exemptions from the Rule 15c3-3 requirements rather than create the operational capabilities to \"fully compute\" compliance with the customer reserve formula. These exemptions impose strict limits on a broker-dealers ability to handle customer funds and securities.\n\nNeither consideration applied to the CSE Brokers. They held net capital in the billions, not hundreds of thousands, of dollars. They conducted customer brokerage activities that required full computation of the customer reserve formula under Rule 15c3-3. They used the Alternative Method and had done so for many years before the adoption of the CSE Program. This reduced their net capital requirement.\n\nIn 2004 the SEC amended the net capital rule to permit broker-dealers with at least $5 billion in \"tentative net capital\" to apply for an \"exemption\" from the established method for computing \"haircuts\" and to compute their net capital by using historic data based mathematical models and scenario testing authorized for commercial banks by the \"Basel Standards.\" According to Barry Ritholtz, this rule was known as the Bear Stearns exemption. This \"exemption\" from the traditional method for computing \"haircuts\" ultimately covered Bear Stearns, the four larger investment bank firms (i.e., Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs), and two commercial bank firms (i.e., Citigroup and JP Morgan Chase). It has been suggested Henry Paulson, the then chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs, \"led\" in \"the lobbying charge\" for the rule change permitting these \"exemptions.\"\n\nThe SEC expected this change to significantly increase the amount of net capital computed by those broker-dealers. This would permit the parent holding companies of the broker-dealers to redeploy the resulting \"excess\" net capital in other lines of business. To lessen this effect, the SEC adopted a new $500 million minimum net capital (and $1 billion \"tentative net capital\") requirement for such brokers and, more important, required each to provide the SEC an \"early warning\" if its \"tentative net capital\" fell below $5 billion. Previously, their minimum net capital requirement was only $250,000 with an early warning requirement of $300,000, although the relevant minimums for such large broker-dealers were the much larger amounts resulting from the requirement to maintain net capital of 2% of aggregate debit items with an early warning requirement at 5% of aggregate debit balances. The SEC also permitted CSE Brokers to calculate \"tentative net capital\" by including \"assets for which there is no ready market\" to the extent the SEC approved the CSE Broker's use of mathematical models to determine haircuts for those positions.\n\nThe 2004 change to the net capital rule responded to two issues. First, the European Union (\"EU\") had adopted in 2002 a Financial Conglomerate Directive that would become effective on January 1, 2005, after being enacted into law by member states in 2004. This Directive required supplemental supervision for unregulated financial (i.e., bank, insurance, or securities) holding companies that controlled regulated entities (such as a broker-dealer). If the relevant holding company was not located in an EU country, an EU member country could exempt the non-EU holding company from the supplemental supervision if it determined the holding company's home country provided \"equivalent\" supervision.\n\nThe second issue was whether and how to apply to broker-dealers capital standards based on those applicable internationally to competitors of US broker-dealers. Those standards (the \"Basel Standards\") had been established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and had been the subject of a \"concept release\" issued by the SEC in 1997 concerning their application to the net capital rule.\n\nIn the United States there was no consolidated supervision for investment bank holding companies, only SEC supervision of their regulated broker-dealer subsidiaries and other regulated entities such as investment advisors. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which had eliminated the vestiges of the Glass–Steagall Act separating commercial and investment banking, had established an optional system for investment bank firms to register with the SEC as \"Supervised Investment Bank Holding Companies.\" Commercial bank holding companies had long been subject to consolidated supervision by the Federal Reserve as \"bank holding companies.\"\n\nTo address the approaching European consolidated supervision deadline, the SEC issued two proposals in 2003, which were enacted in 2004 as final rules. One (the \"SIBHC Program\") established rules under which a company that owned a broker-dealer, but not a bank, could register with the SEC as an investment bank holding company. The second (the \"CSE Program\") established a new alternative net capital computation method for a qualifying broker-dealer (a \"CSE Broker\") if its holding company (a \"CSE Holding Company\") elected to become a \"Consolidated Supervised Entity.\" The SEC estimated it would cost each CSE Holding Company approximately $8 million per year to establish a European sub-holding company for its EU operations if \"equivalent\" consolidated supervision were not established in the United States.\n\nBoth the SIBHC and the CSE Programs laid out programs to monitor investment bank holding company market, credit, liquidity, operational and other \"risks.\" The CSE Program had the added feature of permitting a CSE Broker to compute its net capital based on Basel Standards.\n\nUltimately, five investment bank holding companies (The Bear Stearns Companies Inc., The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. and Morgan Stanley) entered the CSE Program. The SEC was thereby authorized to review the capital structure and risk management procedures of those holding companies. The holding companies were not eligible to enter the SIBHC Program because each owned a bank, although not the type of bank that would cause the holding company to be supervised by the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company. In addition two bank holding companies (Citigroup Inc. and JP Morgan Chase & Co.) entered the CSE Program.\n\nA broker-dealer subsidiary of Merrill Lynch was the first to begin computing its net capital using the new method, beginning January 1, 2005. A Goldman Sachs broker-dealer subsidiary began using the new method after March 23, but before May 27, 2005. Broker-dealer subsidiaries of Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, and Morgan Stanley all began using the new method on December 1, 2005, the first day of the 2006 fiscal year for each of those CSE Holding Companies.\n\nBy permitting CSE Brokers to compute their net capital using Basel Standards, the SEC stated it had expected roughly a 40% reduction in the amount of \"haircuts\" imposed in computing a CSE Broker's \"net capital\" before giving effect to the $5 billion \"tentative net capital\" early warning requirement added in the final rule. The SEC also noted, however, it was unclear whether this would lead to any reduction in actual capital levels at broker-dealers, because broker-dealers typically maintain net capital in excess of required levels. In part this is because broker-dealers using the Alternative Method are required to report when net capital falls below 5% of \"aggregate customer debit balances.\" At that level, a broker-dealer is prohibited from distributing excess capital to its owner. As a 1998 GAO Report noted, however, the excess net capital in large broker-dealers greatly exceeds even that \"early warning\" requirement and is best explained by the requirements imposed by counterparties in order to transact business with the broker-dealer. This had long been true for broker-dealers. A 1987 paper published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York found that at year end 1986 sixteen diversified broker-dealers reported average net capital 7.3 times larger than required net capital ($408 million average reported level and $65 million average required level). The same paper stated \"Market pressures, rather than regulations, determine how much excess net capital securities firms need to compete.\" Nevertheless, to protect against significant reductions in CSE Broker net capital, the SEC imposed the additional \"early warning\" requirement that required a CSE Broker to notify the SEC if its \"tentative net capital\" dropped below $5 billion.\n\nThus, the 2004 change to the Alternative Method raised the possibility increased net capital computations based on the same assets (and additional \"less liquid\" securities) would weaken customer protections in a CSE Broker liquidation. It also raised the possibility capital would be withdrawn from CSE Brokers and used in the non-broker/dealer business of CSE Holding Companies. It did not change the test against which net capital was measured. That test had never directly limited overall leverage of either a broker-dealer or its parent holding company.\n\nBear Stearns was the first CSE Holding Company to collapse. It was \"saved\" through an \"arranged\" merger with JP Morgan Chase & Co. (\"JP Morgan\") announced on March 17, 2008, in connection with which the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (\"FRBNY\") made a $29 billion loan to a special purpose entity (Maiden Lane LLC) that took ownership of various assets of Bear Stearns with a quoted market value of $30 billion as of March 14, 2008.\n\nThe broker-dealer operations of Bear Stearns were absorbed by JP Morgan. The reported net capital position of the Bear Stearns CSE Broker (Bear Stearns & Co. Inc) was adequate and, it appears, would have been adequate under the pre-2004 \"haircuts\" as well.\n\nLehman Brothers Holdings Inc entered bankruptcy on September 15, 2008. Its CSE Broker (Lehman Brothers Inc (\"LBI\")) was not included in the bankruptcy filing and continued to operate until its customer accounts and other assets were acquired by Barclays Capital Inc. As a condition to that acquisition the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (\"SIPC\") commenced a liquidation of LBI on September 19, 2008, in order to complete the transfer of LBI customer accounts and resolve disputes about the status of accounts.\n\nAlthough there has been controversy about two overnight loans to LBI guaranteed by the FRBNY, it appears those loans funded intraday or overnight exposures of LBI to its customers in connection with settlements of customer transactions and that the collateral supporting those loans (i.e., customer settlement payments) repaid the loans on the day they were made or the following day. Reports indicate the \"troubled assets\" held by Lehman were commercial real estate assets.\n\nWhile the CSE Brokers of Bear and Lehman may have remained solvent and liquid after the 2004 net capital rule change, it has been suggested the change had the effect of permitting a large expansion of the non-broker/dealer operations of Bear, Lehman, and the other CSE Holding Companies because they were able to extract excess net capital from their broker-dealers and use that capital to acquire dangerously large exposures to \"risky assets.\"\n\nThere does not appear to be any publicly available study comparing capital levels at CSE Brokers before and after they began using the net capital computation method permitted by the 2004 rule change. As described in Section 1.2 above, the SEC has stated \"tentative net capital\" levels at the CSE Brokers remained stable, or in some cases increased, after the 2004 rule change. CSE Brokers, however, could be permitted to include in net capital computations some \"less liquid\" securities that were excluded before the 2004 rule change.\n\nThe only CSE Holding Company that provided separate financial information for its CSE Broker, through consolidating financial statements, in its Form 10-K Report filings was Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, because that CSE Broker (LBI) had sold subordinated debt in a public offering. Those filings show LBI's reported shareholders' equity increased after it became a CSE Broker. Goldman Sachs provides on its website an archive of the periodic Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition reports issued for its CSE Broker, Goldman Sachs & Co., which continued to operate as a limited partnership. Those statements show 2004 fiscal year-end GAAP total partners' capital of $4.211 billion, before Goldmans Sachs & Co. became a CSE Broker, growing to $6.248 billion by fiscal year-end 2007.\n\nMerrill Lynch reported in its Form 10-K Report for 2005 that, in 2005, it made two withdrawals of capital from its CSE Broker in the total amount of $2.5 billion. In the same Form 10-K Report Merrill Lynch stated that the 2004 rule change was intended to \"reduce regulatory capital costs\" and that its CSE Broker subsidiary expected to make further reductions in its excess net capital. In that 2005 Form 10-K Report Merrill Lynch also reported that its consolidated year-end shareholders' equity for 2004 was $31.4 billion and for 2005 was $35.6 billion.\n\nThe other three CSE Brokers that reported net capital levels (i.e., Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, and Morgan Stanley) all reported significant increases in net capital in their CSE Holding Companies' Form 10-Q Reports for the first reporting period for which they used the new computation method (i.e., the first fiscal quarter of 2006), which would be consistent with reduced haircuts under that method. Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers reported subsequent decreases that could be consistent with capital withdrawals. In earlier periods, however, broker-dealers that later became CSE Brokers also reported fluctuations in net capital levels with periods of significant decreases. None of these three CSE Holding Companies, nor Merrill Lynch after 2005, reported capital withdrawals from CSE Brokers in their Form 10-Q or 10-K Reports.\n\nStudies of Form 10-K and Form 10-Q Report filings by CSE Holding Companies have shown their overall reported year-end leverage increased during the period from 2003 through 2007 and their overall reported fiscal quarter leverage increased from August 2006 through February 2008. Form 10-K Report filings for the same firms reporting fiscal year-end balance sheet information for the period from 1993 through 2002 show reported fiscal year-end leverage ratios in one or more years before 2000 for 4 of the 5 firms higher than their reported year-end leverage for any year from 2004 through 2007. Only Morgan Stanley had higher reported fiscal year-end leverage in 2007 than in any previous year since 1993. The year-end debt to equity ratios of 38.2 to 1 for Lehman in 1993, 34.2 to 1 for Merrill in 1997, and of 35 to 1 for Bear and 31.6 to 1 for Goldman in 1998 were all reached before the 2004 rule change. Even Morgan Stanley, which reported lower leverage after its 1997 merger with Dean Witter Reynolds, reported before the merger a 1996 fiscal year-end debt to equity leverage of 29.1 to 1.\n\nThe higher leverage reported by the four firms in the 1990s was not an anomaly of their reported year-end leverage ratios. Form 10-Q Reports filed by three of those four CSE Holding Companies show an even more marked difference between fiscal quarter end debt to equity ratios reported in the 1990s and the ratios reported after 2004. Each of the eight 10-Qs filed by Bear Stearns from its first fiscal quarter of 1997 through the second of 1999 show a debt to leverage ratio higher than the highest ratio (32.5 to 1) Bear reported in any Form 10-Q filed after 2004. Lehman Brothers reported a debt to equity ratio of 54.2 to 1 in its first Form 10-Q Report on the SEC's website (for the first fiscal quarter of 1994). All nine of Lehman's 10-Qs filed in 1997 through 1999 show higher debt to equity ratios than any of its 10-Qs filed after 2004. Merrill Lynch's highest reported debt to equity ratio in a Form 10-Q filed after 2004 is 27.5 to 1. All seven of Merrill's 10-Qs filed from the first fiscal quarter of 1997 through the first quarter of 1999 show a higher ratio. Because Goldman Sachs did not become a public company until 1999, it did not file Form 10-Q Reports during this period. The higher fiscal quarter spikes of investment bank leverage during the 1990s compared to after 2004 is graphically depicted in a 2008 NYFRB Staff Report.\n\nThe fact the investment banks that later became CSE Holding Companies had leverage levels well above 15 to 1 in the 1990s was noted before 2008. The President's Working Group on Financial Markets pointed out in its April 1999 report on hedge funds and the collapse of Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM) that those five largest investment banks averaged 27 to 1 leverage at year-end 1998 after absorbing the LTCM portfolio. At a more popular level, that finding was noted by Frank Partnoy in his 2004 book \"Infectious greed: how deceit and risk corrupted the financial markets.\" In 1999, the GAO provided leverage statistics for the four largest investment banks in its LTCM report showing Goldman Sachs and Merrill both exceeding the LTCM leverage ratio (at 34-to-1 and 30-to-1, respectively), Lehman equaling LTCM's 28-to-1 leverage, and Morgan Stanley trailing at 22-to-1. A 2009 GAO report repeated those findings and charted leverage from 1998 to 2007 for four of the CSE Holding Company to show three of those firms had higher leverage at the end of fiscal year 1998 than \"at fiscal year-end 2006 before the crisis began.\"\n\nSince 2008, the conclusion that the 2004 rule change permitted dramatically increased leverage at CSE Holding Companies has become firmly embedded in the vast literature commenting on the financial crisis of 2007-2009 and in testimony before Congress. In \"This Time is Different\" Professors Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff characterize the 2004 rule change as the SEC's decision \"to allow investment banks to triple their leverage ratios.\" In \"Too Big to Save\" Robert Pozen writes \"the fundamental problem\" for the CSE Holding Companies \"resulted primarily from the SEC's decision to permit them to more than double their leverage ratio, combined with the SEC's ineffective efforts to implement the consolidated supervision\" of the CSE Holding Companies. Jane D'Arista testified to the House Financial Services Committee in October, 2009, that the 2004 rule change constituted a \"relaxation of the leverage limit for investment banks from $12 to $30 per $1 of capital.\" The issue entered military theory when Gautam Mukunda and Major General William J. Troy wrote, in the US Army War College Quarterly, that the 2004 rule change allowed investment banks \"to increase their leverage to as high as 40 to 1\" when previously \"the SEC had limited investment banks to a leverage ratio of 12 to 1.\"\n\nIn reviewing similar statements made by former SEC chief economist Susan Woodward and, as cited in Section 1.1, Professors Alan Blinder, John Coffee, and Joseph Stiglitz, Professor Andrew Lo and Mark Mueller note 1999 and 2009 GAO reports documented investment bank leverage ratios had been higher before 2000 than after the 2004 rule change and that \"these leverage numbers were in the public domain and easily available through company annual reports and quarterly SEC filings.\" Lo and Mueller cite this as an example of how \"sophisticated and informed individuals can be so easily misled on a relatively simple and empirically verifiable issue\", which \"underscores the need for careful deliberation and analysis, particularly during periods of extreme distress when the sense of urgency may cause us to draw inferences too quickly and inaccurately.\" They describe how mental errors that contributed to the financial crisis and that now contribute to mistaken understandings of that crisis flow from \"mental models of reality that are not complete or entirely accurate\" but that lead us to accept, without critical review, information that \"confirms our preconceptions.\"\n\nLo and Mueller note the New York Times has not corrected the 2008 NY Times Article. At least two of the scholars mentioned in Section 1.2 have (by implication) corrected their 2008 statements that before 2004 investment bank leverage was limited to 12 to 1. In the July–August 2009 issue of the Harvard Business Review, Niall Ferguson noted information that from 1993 to 2002 Bear Stearns, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, and Morgan Stanley reported average leverage ratios of 26 to 1 (with Bear Stearns having an average ratio of 32 to 1 during those years). In his 2010 book, \"Freefall\", Joseph Stiglitz noted that in 2002 leverage at the large investment banks was as high as 29 to 1. He also directed readers to the 2009 Sirri Speech and the 2008 NY Sun Article for different views on the role of the 2004 rule change in investment bank difficulties.\n\nThe \"Financial Inquiry Crisis Report\" (\"FCIC Report\") issued by the FCIC on January 27, 2011, presented the FCIC majority's view of the effect of the 2004 net capital rule change on leverage by stating: \"Leverage at the investment banks increased from 2004 to 2007, growth that some critics have blamed on the SEC's change in the net capital rules...In fact, leverage had been higher at the five investment banks in the late 1990s, then dropped before increasing over the life of the CSE program—a history that suggests that the program was not solely responsible for the changes.\"\nThus, while the FCIC Report identified leverage, especially leverage at investment banks, as an important feature of the financial crisis, it did not identify the 2004 net capital rule change as creating or permitting that leverage. The FCIC Report also noted the 18-month delay before all the CSE Holding Companies qualified for the CSE Program. While the FCIC Report did not draw any conclusion from this delay beyond including it in a general critique of the SEC's execution of the CSE Program, as described in Section 5.2 above the delay eliminates the 2004 rule change from playing a role in any increase in CSE Holding Company leverage in 2004. Because they all only entered the CSE Program at the beginning of their 2006 fiscal years, the delay eliminates the 2004 rule change from playing a role in any 2005 leverage increases reported by Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, or Morgan Stanley.\n\nThe FCIC Report was highly critical of the SEC's implementation of the CSE Program, rejected former SEC Chairman Christopher Cox's assertion that the program was \"fatally flawed\" by being voluntary, and specifically concluded that the SEC failed to exercise the powers it had under the CSE Program to restrict the \"risky activities\" of CSE Holding Companies and to \"require them to hold adequate capital and liquidity for their activities.\" The SEC did not have those powers before 2004 and only gained them through the CSE Program.\n\nThe persistent confusion about the application of the net capital rule to CSE Holding Companies, however, resurfaced in the FCIC Report. After explaining the net capital rule applied to broker-dealers, not their parent holding companies, the FCIC Report misquoted the 2009 Sirri Speech as stating \"investment bank net capital was stable, or in some cases increased, after the rule change.\" As a more serious indication of continuing misunderstanding of the 2004 rule change, on the day the FCIC issued its report (January 27, 2011) economist Robert Hall addressed an MIT symposium on economics and finance. In describing the background to the financial crisis he stated: \"I think that the one most important failure of regulation is easy to identify. In 2004 the SEC removed its capital requirements on investment banks... So the reason that Lehman was able to do what it did, which proved so destructive, was that it had no limits on the amount of leverage it could adopt.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52017691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52017691", "title": "New York v. Tomlins", "text": "New York v. Tomlins\n\nNew York v. Tomlins, 107 N.E. 496 (N.Y. 1914), is a criminal case in which it was found when a defendant claims self defense, that there is no duty to retreat from one's own home. The court wrote, \"It is not now and has never been the law that a man assailed in his own dwelling is bound to retreat.\"\n"}
{"id": "1699704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1699704", "title": "Prothonotary", "text": "Prothonotary\n\nThe word prothonotary is recorded in English since 1447, as \"principal clerk of a court,\" from L.L. \"prothonotarius\" (c. 400), from Greek \"protonotarios\" \"first scribe,\" originally the chief of the college of recorders of the court of the Byzantine Empire, from Greek \"\" \"protos\" \"first\" + Latin \"notarius\" (\"notary\"); the -h- appeared in Medieval Latin. The title was awarded to certain high-ranking notaries.\n\nThe office of prōtonotarios (), also \"proedros\" or \"primikērios\" of the \"notarioi\", existed in mid-Byzantine (7th through 10th centuries) administration as head of the colleges of the \"notarioi\" in various administrative departments. There were \"prōtonotarioi\" of the imperial \"notarioi\" (secretaries of the court), of the various \"sekreta\" or \"logothesia\" (government ministries), as well as for each \"thema\" or province. The latter appeared in the early 9th century and functioned as the chief civil officials of the province, directly below the governing general (\"stratēgos\"). They were responsible chiefly for administrative and fiscal affairs (characteristically, they belonged to the financial ministry of the \"Sakellion\"), and were also responsible for the provisioning of the thematic armies. The office vanished after the 11th and 12th centuries, along with the \"themata\" and the \"logothesia\", although there are traces of a single \"prōtonotarios\" functioning as the emperor's chief secretary until the Palaiologan period.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, protonotaries apostolic (Latin \"protonotarii apostolicii\") are prelates in the Roman Curia who perform certain duties with regard to papal documents. Also, after examining the candidates, they name annually a fixed number of doctors of theology and canon law. Historically, the college of protonotaries developed out of the seven regional notaries of Roman antiquity, and are therefore called protonotaries \"de numero\" (of the number). They are also called \"participating\" protonotaries, because they shared in the revenues as officials of the Roman Chancery.\n\nThese high papal officials are the highest class of Monsignor, are often raised directly to the cardinalate, and hold distinctive privileges in address and attire. Current practice is based on Pope Paul VI's two motu proprios, \"Pontificalis Domus\" of March 28, 1968 and \"Pontificalia Insignia\" of June 21, 1968. They are addressed formally as \"most reverend monsignor,\" and they wear the mantelletta, the purple choir cassock, the biretta with red tuft, and rochet for liturgical services, the black cassock with red piping and purple sash at other times, and may add the purple ferraiuolo to the black cassock for formal ceremonies of a non-liturgical nature, e.g., a graduation.\n\nThere are also honorary protonotaries, referred to as supernumerary (or 'beyond the number'), on whom the pope has conferred this title and its special privileges. This title is purely honorary and is not attached to any duties in the Curia. This is the type of protonotary found outside of Rome, and is the highest grade of monsignor found in most dioceses. Priests so honored are addressed as \"reverend monsignor\", wear the purple choir cassock (with surplice) for liturgical services, the black cassock with red piping and purple sash at other times, may add the purple ferraiuolo to this for formal non-liturgical ceremonies, and may put the letters \"P.A.\" after their names, but use none of the other accoutrements mentioned above.\n\nThe term prothonotary is the title of the chief court clerk in several common law jurisdictions.\n\nThe chief clerks of the supreme courts of the Australian states of New South Wales and Victoria are titled \"prothonotary\".\n\nThe prothonotary of the Victorian Supreme Court has responsibility for all administrative tasks of the trial division registry. Under the Supreme Court Act 1986 (Vic), and the accompanying rules, the prothonotary also has some quasi-judicial powers including taxation of costs, conducting mediations, prosecuting contempt and administering bail.\n\nMuch of the work of the prothonotary is delegated to specifically appointed deputy prothonotaries who, under the Supreme Court Act (s108), have the same powers and authority as the prothonotary.\n\nIn the Federal Court in Canada, the prothonotary is not a clerk, but instead is a judicial officer appointed under the Federal Courts Act and exercises many of the powers and functions of a Federal Court judge. The prothonotary's authority includes mediation, case management, practice motions (including those that may result in a final disposition of the case, regardless of the amount in issue), as well as trials of actions in which up to $50,000 is claimed (see Rules 50, 382, and 383 to 387 of the Federal Courts Rules). The current members of the court are found at Prothonotaries.\n\nIn the provincial courts of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island, the prothonotary is the chief court clerk. In Quebec, prothonotary () is the term formerly used to identify the official now referred to as the clerk of the Superior Court of Quebec.\n\nThe chief clerk of the Court of King's Bench and the Court of Common Pleas was known as the Prothonotary. His deputy was the Second Prothonotary or Secondary. The positions were well paid and could be purchased. The posts, which had largely become sinecures, were abolished in 1837 and replaced by that of Master. The prothonotary and his deputy were the principal officers on the civil side of the palatine Court of Pleas of the County Palatine of Durham and Sadberge. The prothonotary and his deputy were the principal officers of the palatine Court of Common Pleas of the County Palatine of Lancaster. The office continued to exist up to the abolition of the two palatine courts by an Act of 1873.\n\nThe chief clerk and head of the administrative division of the Bombay High Court is known as the Prothonotary and Senior Master.\n\nWhile the term was once commonly used in the United States, only the courts of Pennsylvania and Delaware still term their chief clerks \"prothonotaries.\"\n\nThe Unified Judicial System of Pennsylvania titles several of its court administrators prothonotaries. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania maintains two deputy prothonotaries, one in Philadelphia and the other in Pittsburgh, supplementing the role of the prothonotary in Harrisburg. The Superior Court of Pennsylvania's chief administrative officer is also titled a prothonotary and also maintains offices in Harrisburg, Philadelphia, and Pittsburgh. The Pennsylvania Courts of Common Pleas also title their chief clerks prothonotaries, except for the District of Delaware County, which has a clerk of courts instead of a prothonotary under the terms of its special Home Rule Charter. The Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania and the minor courts (the magisterial district courts, the Philadelphia Municipal Court, and the Pittsburgh Municipal Courts) do not have prothonotaries; their administrators are titled a \"Chief Clerk\" and \"administrators,\" respectively.\n\nU.S. President Harry S. Truman was introduced to a prothonotary during a campaign stop in Pittsburgh in 1948. It is rumored that Truman's first reaction upon hearing the term \"prothonotary\" was to say \"What the hell is a prothonotary?\" Truman is also attributed with saying that \"prothonotary\" was the most impressive-sounding political title in the U.S.\n\n"}
{"id": "1836914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1836914", "title": "Red Mass", "text": "Red Mass\n\nA Red Mass is a Mass celebrated annually in the Catholic Church for all members of the legal profession, regardless of religious affiliation: judges, lawyers, law school professors, law students, and government officials, marking the opening of the judicial year. Through prayerful petition and thanksgiving the Red Mass requests guidance from the Holy Spirit for all who seek justice, and offers the legal community an opportunity to reflect on what Catholics believe is the God-given power and responsibility of all in the legal profession.\n\nOriginating in Europe during the High Middle Ages, the Red Mass is so-called from the red vestments traditionally worn in symbolism of the tongues of fire (the Holy Spirit) that descended on the Apostles at Pentecost (). Its name also exemplifies the scarlet robes worn by royal judges that attended the Mass centuries ago.\n\nIn many countries with a Protestant tradition, such as England and Wales and Australia, a similar church services is held to mark the start of the legal year, with judges customarily wearing their ceremonial regalia.\n\nThe first recorded Red Mass was celebrated in the Cathedral of Paris in 1245. In certain localities of France, the Red Mass was celebrated in honor of Saint Ives, the Patron Saint of Lawyers. From there, it spread to most European countries. The tradition began in England around 1310, during the reign of Edward II. It was attended at the opening of each term of Court by all members of the Bench and Bar. Today the Red Mass is celebrated annually at Westminster Cathedral.\n\nIn the United States, the first Red Mass was held in 1877 at Saints Peter and Paul Church Detroit, Michigan by Detroit College, as the University of Detroit Mercy was known at the time. UDM School of Law resumed the tradition beginning in 1912 and continues to hold it annually. In New York City, a Red Mass was first held in 1928 at the Church of St. Andrew, near the courthouses of Foley Square, celebrated by Cardinal Patrick Joseph Hayes, who strongly advocated and buttressed the legal community's part in evangelization.\n\nIn Canada, the Red Mass was first celebrated in Québec City in 1896, in Toronto in 1924 and in Montréal in 1944. Its sponsorship was assumed by the Guild of Our Lady of Good Counsel in 1931 and by The Thomas More Lawyers' Guild of Toronto since 1968. It was re-instituted in Sydney, Australia in 1931.\n\nThe main difference between the Red Mass and a traditional Mass is that the focus of prayer and blessings concentrate on the leadership roles of those present. The gifts of the Holy Spirit: wisdom, understanding, counsel and fortitude, are customarily invoked upon those in attendance.\n\nIn Ireland, the Votive Mass of the Holy Spirit (the Red Mass) is held annually on the first Monday of October, which is the first day of the Michaelmas Law Term. The ceremony is held at St. Michan's Roman Catholic church, which is the parish church of the Four Courts. It is attended by the Irish judiciary, barristers and solicitors, as well as representatives of the diplomatic corps, Gardaí, the Northern Irish, English and Scottish judiciary. The judiciary do not wear their judicial robes, although formal morning dress is worn. Journalist Dearbhail McDonald has described it as \"a grave, necessary reminder of the awesome powers and responsibilities of all those who dispense justice, including judges, lawyers, government and gardaí.\" A parallel ceremony is held at St. Michan's Church of Ireland (Anglican Protestant).\n\nIn the Philippines, De La Salle University, Xavier University – Ateneo de Cagayan, and other Jesuit schools, and Holy Angel University annually celebrate the Red Mass, which they call \"Mass of the Holy Spirit.\" The University of Santo Tomas, the Colegio de San Juan de Letran (Dominicans), and the San Beda University (Benedictines) also celebrate the Red Mass, known as \"Misa de Apertura\", that is followed by the \"Discurso de Apertura\" to formally open the academic year.\n\nIn Scotland, a Red Mass is held annually each autumn in St. Mary's Cathedral in Edinburgh to mark the beginning of the Scottish Judicial year. It is attended by Catholic judges of the High Court of Justiciary, sheriffs, advocates, solicitors and law students all dressed in their robes of office. The robes of the Lords Commissioner of Justiciary are red faced with white.\n\nOne of the better-known Red Masses is the one celebrated each fall at the Cathedral of St. Matthew the Apostle in Washington, D.C. on the Sunday before the first Monday in October (the Supreme Court convenes on the first Monday in October). It is sponsored by the John Carroll Society and attended by some Supreme Court justices, members of Congress, the diplomatic corps, the Cabinet and other government departments and sometimes the President of the United States. Each year, at the Brunch following the Red Mass, the Society confers its Pro Bono Legal Service Awards to thank lawyers and law firms that have provided outstanding service.\n\nJustice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who is Jewish, used to attend the Red Mass with her Christian colleagues but no longer does so due to her objection to the use of images of aborted fetuses during a homily opposing abortion.\n\nThe first Red Mass in the United States was celebrated at Saints Peter and Paul Church (Detroit) in 1877, under the auspices of what is now the University of Detroit Mercy. The tradition was resumed in 1912, and has been held annually since. This Red Mass is the oldest continuously held in the United States. The better-known Red Mass in New York was first celebrated in 1928. The first Red Mass in Boston was celebrated on October 4, 1941 at Immaculate Conception Church under the auspices of Boston College. A Red Mass is also celebrated at St. Joseph's Cathedral in the Diocese of Manchester, New Hampshire, at the University of San Diego, and at the Basilica of the Assumption in the Archdiocese of Baltimore. A Red Mass was first observed in Washington, D.C. in 1939 at the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. It continued as an annual event there under the auspices of the law school of the Catholic University of America. It was held in January to coincide with the opening of Congress. In 1953 it was moved to St. Matthew's Cathedral, but continued to be help at the beginning of the year until 1977.\n\nControversy over the constitutionality of the Red Mass and attendance by American officials has been dramatized in such shows as \"The West Wing\" (\"The Red Mass\") and \"Law & Order\" (by John Munch, a character known for his obsession with conspiracy theories, in \"Sideshow\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7916538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7916538", "title": "Ryot", "text": "Ryot\n\nRyot (alternatives: raiyat, rait or ravat) was a general economic term used throughout India for peasant cultivators but with variations in different provinces. While zamindars were landlords, raiyats were tenants and cultivators, and served as hired labour.\n\nA raiyat was defined as someone who has acquired a right to hold land for the purpose of cultivating it, whether alone or by members of his family, hired servants, or partners. It also referred to succession rights.\n\nRyot originates from the Hindi word \"ra`īyat\" and the Arabic word \"ra`īyah\", translated as \"flock\" or \"peasants\", in turn originating from the word \"ra`ā\", meaning \"pasture\".\n\nUnder the Mughal system of land control there were two types of raiyats: khudkasta and paikasta. The khudkasta raiyats were permanent resident cultivators of the village. Their rights in land were heritable according to Muslim and Hindu laws of succession. The other type of raiyats was called paikasta. They did not cultivate land on a permanent basis in any particular mauza (lowest revenue plus village settlement unit), but instead moved from mauza to mauza and engaged themselves for a crop season. In terms of revenue, the paikasta raiyats were generally paid a much lower rate of rent than the khudkashta raiyats. The dividend to the khudkasta, who thus became an absentee owner, came from hard bargaining. Pahikasht raiyats were a subgroup of peasants who cultivated the land away from the area where they resided.\n\nAnother subgroup included under-raiyats who was entitled to various rights of occupancy and transferable interests. An under-raiyat it was referred to as a \"korfa\", though an under-raiyat paying rent in kind was referred too as a \"bargait\".\n\nIn March 1859, during the British rule, thousands of ryots in Bengal refused to grow Indigo.\n\nThe Bengal Tenancy Act of 1885 was developed to regulate the rent of under-raiyats. One of the causes of the Bengal Tenancy Act of 1885 was the Bihar Rent Committee report of 1879 which sought rights for the raiyat to resist illegal restraint and illegal enhancement, and allowing him to prove and maintain his occupancy rights.\n\nThere were two economic systems prevalent in India during the British rule: the ryotwari system and the mahalwari system. The ryotwari system was known as \"severality villages and was based on the system of peasant proprietorship. The ryotwari (or ryotwary) tenure related to land revenue imposed on an individual or community owning an estate, and occupying a position analogous to that of a landlord. The assessment is known as zamindari.\n\nThe land revenue is imposed on individuals who are the actual occupants, and this assessment is known as ryotwari. Under zamindari tenure, the land is held as independent property; while under ryotwari tenure it is held of the crown in a right of occupancy, which is under British rule both heritable and transferable by the ryots. The former system prevails in northern and central India, and the latter in Bombay, Madras, Assam and Burma. The Ryot's association was formed by N. G. Ranga.\n"}
{"id": "7585500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7585500", "title": "Serbian constitutional referendum, 2006", "text": "Serbian constitutional referendum, 2006\n\nA referendum on a proposed draft of the new Serbian constitution was held on October 28 and 29 October 2006 and resulted in the draft constitution being approved by the Serbian electorate. The constitution is Serbia's first as an independent state since the Kingdom of Serbia's 1903 constitution. Over 6.6 million people were entitled to vote in the national referendum.\n\nThe previous Constitution of Serbia was adopted in 1990, when Slobodan Milošević was President of Serbia. When he was ousted on October 5, 2000, one of pre-election promises of the new Democratic Opposition of Serbia coalition government was to adopt a new constitution. That did not occur, however, as the coalition soon fell apart following disputes between the President of Yugoslavia, Vojislav Koštunica, and the Prime Minister of Serbia, Zoran Đinđić, which ended with Koštunica's Democratic Party of Serbia leaving the government of Serbia, dominated by Đinđić's Democratic Party.\n\nThe 1990 constitution contained several anachronisms, such as a provision for \"social property\", which was neither privately nor state owned. Also, it significantly reduced the level of autonomy of Serbia's two provinces (Vojvodina and Kosovo), which had been introduced in the Titoist constitution of 1974. It required a two-thirds majority in parliament and a qualified majority of 50% of the electorate to be changed. Koštunica advocated that the change of constitution be in accordance with the constitution of 1990, while many other parties suggested the provisions for constitutional change be ignored, advocating elections for a Constitutional parliament.\n\nFollowing Đinđić's assassination in March 2003, general election was held in December 2003, which resulted in Koštunica becoming Prime Minister. At the same time, the Serbian Radical Party experienced a revival and became the single largest party in parliament, but it was excluded from government. The adoption of a new constitution was again delayed due to various compromises and a reluctance to tackle the problem.\n\nThe issue was revisited in 2005, when the teams selected by President Boris Tadić and the Government presented their drafts of the constitution to the public. In June 2006 Serbia became an independent state when Montenegro decided to put an end to the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro at a referendum, making a new constitution urgent. The Kosovo status talks also necessitated the quick adoption of a new constitution which would affirm Serbian desires to keep the province under its sovereignty, in accordance with international law and UN Security Council Resolution #1244.\n\nOn October 1, 2006, followed by short negotiations among the largest parliamentary parties, the Parliament of Serbia unanimously adopted the draft of the new Constitution, with 242 MPs voting in favour. The other eight were not present. The draft was the result of a compromise among the key political parties. Some considered the way in which it had been drawn up to be reasonably untransparent, and the result of political horse-trading. In the preamble, a statement that \"Kosovo is an autonomous province of Serbia with significant autonomy\" was included. It was decided that the constitutional referendum was to be held on October 28 and October 29.\n\nAll major political parties supported the draft and began a public campaign for the referendum. The only political bloc that campaigned against the draft and advocated public boycott was a group of liberal and social-democrat parties (Čedomir Jovanović's Liberal Democratic Party, Nenad Čanak's League of Vojvodina Social Democrats, Žarko Korać's Social Democratic Union, Nataša Mićić's Civic Alliance of Serbia) and a number of NGOs. They objected to the lack of public discussion, argued that the claims to Kosovo in the preamble were a populist attempt to encourage the voters. Some were also dissatisfied with the level of autonomy given to Vojvodina. (On the 2007 election, those parties formed the coalition and entered the Parliament with about 5.3% support).\n\nIn the first article, Serbia is defined as a \"state of the Serb people and all its citizens\", and in the preamble Kosovo is defined as an \"integral part\" of Serbia with \"fundamental autonomy\". Also, it defines Serbia as an independent state for the first time since 1918. In addition, it makes Cyrillic the only alphabet for official use, while making provisions for minority languages to be used at the local level.\n\nDifferences between the new constitution and that adopted in 1990 include the following:\n\nWhile it was more or less universally accepted that the new constitution draft was a significant improvement over the 1990 constitution, the main objections of the public were directed at the untransparent way in which the draft was drawn up and approved by parliament. Even President Tadić acknowledged that \"...I sense a certain uneasiness that we did not have a full public discussion about the constitution, due to the speed and pace at which it was seems to be adopted\".\n\nSeveral international law experts and independent analysts pointed out that the new article 16, which states that all international treaties must comply with the provisions of the constitution, sets up an inherent conflict, and can present an obstacle to the country's accession to European Union.\n\nAnother obstacle was how to ensure the constitutional limit of 50% of registered voters. Republic Election Commission (RIK) placed the total number of electors at 6,639,385—that excluded Kosovo Albanians, who have been boycotting all Serbian elections and censuses since 1990. Critics pointed that it's hypocritical to exclude Albanian voters from the balloting about the document which states that Kosovo is part of Serbia. Political analyst and president of Transparency Serbia Vladimir Goati said that \"It is pointless to state that they are not on the voter list, because they are boycotting all Serbian elections. If you recognize someone as a citizen of your country, then you cannot take away his or her right to boycott.\"; however, the practice of excluding Kosovo Albanians has been adopted in several elections before. Also, opponents of the constitution like Serbia's Liberal Party pointed out that the decision of the Republic Election Commission that potential extra amount of ballots will be ignored was unlawful and outrageous.\n\nAccording to preliminary counts published by the Republic Election Commission, 51.46% of the electorate (95.9% of those voting) supported the constitution, with 50% support needed for it to come into effect. The voter turnout amounted to 53.66%. The turnout of registered voters in Kosovo reached 90.1%, Albanians in Southern Serbia (Kosovo and Metohia) who constitute the majority of population in these areas ignored the referendum. The turnout in Vojvodina was also low (45.9%), as several regional parties and NGOs called for a boycott, stating that the degree of the province's autonomy was insufficient.\n\nOpponents of the referendum point to the fact that the timing of the turnout was peculiar: after the first day of voting, the turnout was only 18.03%, and on Sunday morning it started rising slowly, reaching 46% at 5PM.. Then, in the last three hours of voting, the turnout rose to around 53%. The Speaker of the Vojvodina provincial assembly, Bojan Kostreš, accused the authorities of \"forcing the new constitution\". \"The final voting hours were very strange, with a sudden, steep rise in turnout\", he said. Several political analysts pointed out that similar scenarios have happened before; analyst Đorđe Vukadinović stated that \"...the turnout of three to five percent per hour has been reached on several occasions in the past ten years.\", while many commentators also pointed out that non-stop public messages on TV urging people to vote, the appearance of Serbian Patriarch Pavle voting on a TV broadcast, and an increase in awareness about the problems that would occur if the referendum failed, may also have played the role in increasing turnout.\n\nThe final results of the referendum were declared by the Republic Election Commission on 2 November 2006: voter turnout amounted to 3,645,517, or 54.91% of the electorate (totally 6,639,385 citizens), of which 25,866 votes were declared invalid and thus the final valid figure of 3,619,221 votes published. The new constitution was supported by 3,521,724 voters, or 53.04% of the electorate and 96.60% of those voting; 97,497 voters (1.47% of those registered and 2.67% of those voting) were against the new constitution; 25,866 votes were invalid.\n\nThe referendum and the text of the new Serbian Constitution have been sharply criticized by International Crisis Group.\n\nDespite the drawbacks, the European Union and Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe endorsed the proposed changes. Cristina Gallach, spokeswoman of EU High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy Javier Solana, stated that \"[The EU] positively assesses the fact that Serbia is changing the Constitution from the time of Slobodan Milošević\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5828071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5828071", "title": "Single-subject rule", "text": "Single-subject rule\n\nThe single-subject rule is a rule in the constitutional law of some jurisdictions that stipulates that some or all types of legislation may deal with only one main issue. One purpose is to avoid complexity in laws, to avoid any hidden consequences that legislators or voters may miss when reading the proposed law. Another is to prevent legislators attaching an unpopular provision (\"rider\") to an unrelated popular one, whether in the hope of sneaking the unpopular one through, or in the hope of causing the popular one to be rejected (a type of wrecking amendment).\n\nIn English law, the long title of a bill or act of parliament states its purpose; this may enumerate multiple purposes, or end with a vague formula like \"and for other purposes\". A proposed amendment to a bill may be rejected if it is outside the scope defined in its long title; alternatively, the title may be amended to increase its scope. An omnibus bill covers a number of diverse or unrelated topics.\n\nSection 55 of the Constitution of Australia provides a single-subject rule for taxation legislation: \"Laws imposing taxation shall deal only with the imposition of taxation, and any provision therein dealing with any other matter shall be of no effect\". The same section also requires laws imposing taxation to \"deal with one subject of taxation only\" (except those relating to customs and excise).\n\nThe 1937 Constitution of Ireland states that \"A Bill containing a proposal or proposals for the amendment of this Constitution shall not contain any other proposal\". This was in contrast to the 1922 Constitution of the Irish Free State, which could be implicitly amended.\n\nIn Swiss law, the \"principle of the unity of the subject matter\" (, ) applies to federal popular initiatives and to parliamentary legislation that is subject to a referendum. It has been derived by the Swiss Federal Supreme Court from the provision in article 34, section 2 of the Swiss Federal Constitution which guarantees \"the freedom of the citizen to form an opinion and to give genuine expression to his or her will\" in the exercise of political rights. The Court has outlined the principle as follows:\n\nThe single subject rule exists in 41 state constitutions in the United States of America. \n\nFor example, the constitution of Minnesota, Article IV, Section 17, requires that \"No law shall embrace more than one subject, which shall be expressed in its title.\" Conversely, neither the U.S. Congress nor the U.S. Constitution has such a rule so riders which are completely unrelated to the main bill are commonplace. These amendments are often put into bills at the last minute, so that any representative who may read the legislation before actually voting on it will not have a chance to catch it. An effort is underway, however, to add a single subject amendment to the U.S. Constitution to apply a single subject rule to the Congress.\n\nIt has been charged that single-subject rules have been misused as a political or judicial measure to slow or nullify ballot initiatives. An example of accusation of misuse of this law occurred in Colorado when a former governor made a statement against a single-subject ruling. The rule can also result in overly narrow questions, that result in no substantial effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11100681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11100681", "title": "Space Liability Convention", "text": "Space Liability Convention\n\nThe Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects, also known as the Space Liability Convention, is a treaty from 1972 that expands on the liability rules created in the Outer Space Treaty of 1967. In 1978, the crash of the nuclear-powered Soviet satellite Kosmos 954 in Canadian territory led to the only claim filed under the Convention. \n\nThe Liability Convention was concluded and opened for signature on 29 March 1972. It entered into force on 1 September 1972. As of 1 January 2013, 89 States have ratified the Liability Convention, 22 have signed but not ratified and three international intergovernmental organizations (the European Space Agency, the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites, and the European Telecommunications Satellite Organization) have declared their acceptance of the rights and obligations provided for in the Agreement.\n\nStates (countries) bear international responsibility for all space objects that are launched within their territory. This means that regardless of who launches the space object, if it was launched from State A's territory, or from State A's facility, or if State A caused the launch to happen, then State A is fully liable for damages that result from that space object.\n\nIf two states work together to launch a space object, then both of those states are jointly and severally liable for the damage that object causes. This means that the injured party can sue either of the two states for the full amount of damage.\n\nClaims under the Liability Convention must be brought by the state against a state. The Convention was created to supplement existing and future national laws providing compensation to parties injured by space activities. Whereas under most national legal systems an individual or a corporation may bring a lawsuit against another individual or another corporation, under the Liability Convention claims must be brought on the state level only. This means that if an individual is injured by a space object and wishes to seek compensation under the Liability Convention, the individual must arrange for his or her country to make a claim against the country that launched the space object that caused the damage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1223122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223122", "title": "Torcaso v. Watkins", "text": "Torcaso v. Watkins\n\nTorcaso v. Watkins, 367 U.S. 488 (1961), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the court reaffirmed that the United States Constitution prohibits States and the Federal Government from requiring any kind of religious test for public office, in the specific case, as a notary public.\n\nIn the early 1960s, the Governor of Maryland appointed Roy Torcaso (November 13, 1910 – June 9, 2007) as a notary public. At the time, the Constitution of Maryland required \"a declaration of belief in the existence of God\" in order for a person to hold \"any office of profit or trust in this State\".\n\nTorcaso, an atheist, refused to make such a statement, and his appointment was consequently revoked. Torcaso, believing his constitutional rights to freedom of religious expression had been infringed, filed suit in a Maryland Circuit Court, only to be rebuffed. The Circuit Court rejected his claim, and the Maryland Court of Appeals held that the requirement in the Maryland Constitution for a declaration of belief in God as a qualification for office was self-executing and did not require any implementing legislation to be enacted by the state legislature.\n\nThe Court of Appeals justified its decision thus:\n\nTorcaso took the matter to the United States Supreme Court, where it was heard on April 24, 1961.\n\nThe Court unanimously found that Maryland's requirement for a person holding public office to state a belief in God violated the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe Court had previously established in \"Everson v. Board of Education\" (1947):\n\nWriting for the Court, Justice Hugo Black recalled \"Everson v. Board of Education\", and explicitly linked \"Torcaso v. Watkins\" to its conclusions:\n\nRebuffing the judgment of the Maryland Court of Appeals, Justice Black added: \"The fact, however, that a person is not compelled to hold public office cannot possibly be an excuse for barring him from office by state-imposed criteria forbidden by the Constitution.\"\n\nThe Court did not base its holding on the no religious test clause of Article VI. In Footnote 1 of the opinion Justice Black wrote:\n\nIt has occasionally been argued that in \"Torcaso v. Watkins\" the Supreme Court \"found\" secular humanism to be a religion. This assertion is based on a reference, by Justice Black in footnote number 11 of the Court's finding, to court cases where organized groups of self-identified humanists, or ethicists, meeting on a regular basis to share and celebrate their beliefs, have been granted religious-based tax exemptions.\n\nJustice Black's use of the term \"secular humanism\" in his footnote has been seized upon by some religious groups, such as those supporting causes such as teaching creationism in schools, as a \"finding\" that any secular or non-observable evolution-based activity is, in fact, religion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1240680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1240680", "title": "Treaty of Madrid (13 January 1750)", "text": "Treaty of Madrid (13 January 1750)\n\nThe Spanish–Portuguese treaty of 1750 or Treaty of Madrid was a document signed in the Spanish capital by Ferdinand VI of Spain and John V of Portugal on 13 January 1750, to end armed conflict over a border dispute between the Spanish and Portuguese empires in South America in the vicinity of the Uruguay River, an area known as the Banda Oriental (now comprising parts of Uruguay, Argentina and the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil). The treaty established borders between the Spanish and Portuguese empires, ceding much of what is today's country of Brazil to the Portuguese.\n\nEarlier treaties such as the Treaty of Tordesillas and the Treaty of Zaragoza authored by both countries, and as mediated by Pope Alexander VI, stipulated that the Portuguese empire in South America could extend no farther west than 370 leagues west of Cape Verde Islands (called the Tordesillas meridian, approx. the 46th meridian). Had these treaties remained unchanged, the Spanish would have held both what is today the city of São Paulo and all land to the west and south. Thus, Brazil would be only a fraction of its present-day size.\n\nStarting in the 17th century, Portuguese explorers, traders, and missionaries from the state of Maranhao in the north, and gold-seekers and slave-hunters, the famous \"bandeirantes\" of São Paulo, in the south, had penetrated far to the west and far to the south of the old imaginary treaty-line.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe original was in both Portuguese and Spanish. The treaty consists of a lengthy preamble, and 26 articles.\n\nThe Treaty of Madrid was based on the principles of \"Uti possidetis, ita possideatis\" from Roman law (who owns by fact owns by right) and “natural boundaries”, stating respectively in the preamble: “each party must stay with what it now holds” and “the boundaries of the two Domains... are the sources and courses of the most notable rivers and mountains”, and thereby authorizing the Portuguese to retain the lands they had occupied at the expense of the Empire of Spain. The treaty also stipulated that Spain would receive the Sacramento Colony and Portugal the Misiones Orientales. These were seven independent Jesuit missions of the upper Uruguay River.\nThe treaty sensibly sought to follow geographic features in fixing the boundary: it moved westward from a point on the Atlantic coast south of Rio Grande do Sul, then northward irregularly following parts of the Uruguay, Iguaçu, Paraná, Paraguay, Guapore, Madeira, and Javari Rivers, and north of the Amazon, ran from the middle Negro to the watershed between the Amazon and Orinoco basins and along the Guiana watershed to the Atlantic. \nSoon after signing it, two commissions for demarcation were created. The Northern, chaired by the State Governor of Grão-Pará and Maranhão, in the South headed on the Portuguese side by the Governor of Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThe Treaty of Madrid was significant because it substantially defined the modern boundaries of Brazil. However, the resistance of the Jesuits to surrendering their missions and the refusal of the Guarani to be forcibly relocated led to the nullification of the treaty by the subsequent Treaty of El Pardo, signed by both countries in 1761. The opposition by the Guarani led to the Guarani War of 1756. The terms of the Treaty of Madrid, with a few exceptions, were re-established in the First Treaty of San Ildefonso in 1777, and that treaty was again negated in 1801.\n\n"}
{"id": "1038578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1038578", "title": "Tristar and Red Sector Incorporated", "text": "Tristar and Red Sector Incorporated\n\nTristar & Red Sector Incorporated (TRSI) is a demogroup which formed in 1990. It came about from the longest-running cooperation in scene history.\n\nRSI existed from 1985, before being joined by the \"T\" later on. Evolving from the Commodore 64 to the Amiga and later to PC and various game console platforms - like the PlayStation, Xbox, Nintendo - and set-ups like Arduino, Android or Blu-ray, TRSI released a number of digital productions, dedicated to experimenting in phreaking or network alteration. Its members were spread around the world and still contribute to computer scene art and code after more than 27 years of history.\n\nRed Sector Incorporated (RSI) was founded with a focus on the Commodore 64 as a group for cracks, fixes, trainers, packs, intros and demos. The founders were three suppliers from Canada: Bill Best, Greg and Kangol Kid. After the initial formation in the spring of 1985, The Skeleton and Baudsurfer set up RSI's first domain, \"The Pirates Ship\" BBS the following summer, which eventually became the \"Dawn of Eternity\" BBS.\n\nAt the end of the year, Irata & Mister Zeropage were asked to join the group and set up a European section in Germany, with Irata being the group's main trader, followed by additional importers in the United States. Slogans at the time included \"No risk, no fun - Red Sector Number One\" & \"Red Sector - The Leading Force\". The Light Circle was a basis for several future European members of RSI, a coalition of Radwar Enterprises, Cracking Force Berlin & Flash Cracking Formation.\n\nRed Sector Incorporated first released on the Amiga 1000 in 1986. During the summer, RSI decided to concentrate on the Amiga and formed an Amiga division.\n\nIn the beginning of 1987, Red Sector's Commodore 64 section became dormant, to bundle forces on the Amiga. At this time, RSI's first Amiga demo was coded by HQC and released to the Scene. It was followed by the second, \"Twilight with Music\" by Karsten Obarski. At the end of the year, a short-term cooperation was formed with Ghenna of Defjam, marking the first group cooperation on the Amiga.\n\nBy now, all active members had moved to the Amiga. A fast stream of imports from the United States and Canada continued to be processed in Europe. Among a wave of police raids, Irata & Mister Zeropage got busted and RSI fell asleep for a period of time.\nA slow restart by Irata, Onyx & SLL began the recovery of Red Sector Incorporated in the second half of this year, while Onyx came to know TCC Design. For the first time, RSI met Tristar members to party together. RSI and Defjam restarted releasing together. Later on, Irata became the main leader of the group. Slogan at the time: \"RSI - The Voice of the Underground\".\nIn 1989, Red Sector Incorporated recruited The Clumsy Creepers as their demo division on Amiga. The filemagazine \"News on Tour\" got its first issue in August, written by RSI.\nIn September, the \"Red Sector Mega Demo\" was published for ECS, a milestone in scene demo history and an instant classic, manufactured as a two 3½ inch disc production, winning the \"Tristar Party\" demo competition. It later had been voted one of the best ten Amiga demos ever. Among others: Coding by TCC Design, Doctor Beat, Delta. Music by Romeo Knight, SCS, Mark 2 & Bit Arts. Graphics by Scum, Dark, Doctor C, Rat Sign, Delta.\nThe demo division also released \"The Red Sector Demomaker\" on the Amiga, which was distributed by Data Becker.\n\nThe group Public Enemy was founded. Red Sector Incorporated and Public Enemy joined forces and extended to the PC.\nIn February, RSI published the first issue of \"Criminal\" magazine.\nRSI was voted number one in the \"World Charts\" on Amiga.\nThe Amiga demo \"Follow Me\" was released for ECS, followed by \"Revenge of the Babbnasen\" in the same format. It won the Cebit demo competition in March.\nOn the Amiga, RSI and the relatively unknown group TRS fusioned to become Tristar and Red Sector Incorporated, or as short form: TRSI, on June 29. This was the beginning of the longest running merger in scene history up until today, being finalized at \"The Silents & Red Sector Summer Conference\" in Denmark. From there, TRSI became a vital crew in scene history, diverting activities to several playgrounds.\nSlogans at the time: \"Twice the Fun - Double the Trouble\" & \"Back to the Roots\"\nFor a brief period, a multi platform cooperation was in effect: Public Enemy / Tristar & Red Sector Incorporated / Defjam / The Dream Team.\nPublic Enemy left the coalition, followed by The Dream Team, in 1991.\nTristar & Red Sector Incorporated remained and still consists predominantly of European members from Germany, Austria, France & England.\nTRSI spawned its Austrian Amiga demo section Surprise ! Productions, founded by TMB, which soon partially left again.\nIn December, the \"Prism Vectors\" demo ranked third at the \"Prime Party\" on the Amiga.\nSlogans at the time: \"The sleeping Gods\" & \"The Everlasting\"\nIn March 1992, the TRSI \"Misery Dentro\" won the Cebit demo competition on the Amiga.\nAfter previously being abandoned, the Commodore 64 section was revived by Irata, Mister President & Mister Cursor as RSI in August, featuring Psychobilly,Benson, Dense, Termo & Street Tuff.\nTRSI spawned yet another demo division, called Masque.\nTheir Amiga demo Wicked Sensation by Wayne Mendoza, Tee Jay, Peachy and Romeo Knight won the World of Commodore exhibition in November. Ecliptica by Romeo Knight, Hellrazor, Fade One, Double Trouble, Viola Bros. and Spider, done by the Danish division, ranked third in December at \"The Party\" on the AMIGA.\n\nRSI was voted the best first release group on the Commodore 64.\nIn April, No Pain, No Gain came in second as Amiga 40K at \"The Gathering\".\nMasque also ranked second with Misery Dentro II at the Cebit demo competition on the Amiga, crafted by Peachy, Virgill, Dreamer and Wayne Mendoza. Meanwhile, TRSI formed a Polish demo section.\nTristar & Red Sector Incorporated published several noteworthy demos, among them \"Cubic Dream\", \"Artifice\" & \"Victoria\".\nThe groups overall production activities peaked early in 1994.\nA number of releases was produced in cooperation with Zenith.\nSlogan at the time: \"No fame, no money, no power - only Fun 'n Friendship\"\nOn the Commodore 64, \"The Party IV Scroll\" demo got shipped. The last issue of the papermag \"Bullet Proof\" was released.\nFiver2 published his \"Honeycomb\" slideshow. The Polish demo section of TRSI formed Nah-Kolor in the middle of 1995.\nShortly after, it had been dissected from Tristar & Red Sector Incorporated, with some members staying.\nZinkfloid founded TRSI Recordz to publish the scene music samplers \"Cyberlogik\" I & II, plus an album by CNCD.\nTRSI also released on the SNES Super Famicom.\nA game soundtrack album by Doctor Awesome was published by TRSI Recordz in 1996.\nThe \"Television\" demo ranked second in April at \"Scenest\" on the Commodore 64.\nIn December, \"Twin Peaks\" came in fourth on the AMIGA at \"The Party\", sporting soundtrack by Virgill.\nThe Finnish crew Mellow Chips joined Tristar & Red Sector Incorporated as a sub group demo section in 1997.\nTRSI Recordz published an album by Andrew Barnabas.\nIn July, TRSI & Locker House released \"Insomnia\" issue one, an Amiga disc magazine.\n\"Dose\" by Mellow Chips ranked second in October as combined Amiga demo at the \"Demolition Party\".\nMellow Chips of Tristar & Red Sector Incorporated won the demo competition at \"The Gathering\" with the Amiga production \"Rise\" in 1998.\nTRSI & The Light Circle released for the Nintendo 64.\nIn October, \"EKG\" came in second at \"Compushare\" as a PC 64K with Replay.\nTRSI Recordz published an album by Muffler in 1999.\n\"Spice Melange\" won the \"Bush Party\" in June in the PC demo competition with Polar Dreams.\n\nTristar & Red Sector Incorporated, in the new millennium, released on the PlayStation and Game Boy Color.\nAt the \"TRSAC Party\", TRSI ranked second with Bizarre Love Triangle on the Amiga, with Haujobb & Depth in October 2001.\nIn 2003 some members left the coalition to revive TRS again, which did not stop the remaining formation to produce up-to-date titles.\nTristar & Red Sector Incorporated released on the Game Boy Advance.\nTRSI published the first ever realtime ray tracer in 1KB in August 2004, \"SW Raytrace 'em All\" by Hitchhikr.\nTogether with Hoodlum & Paradox, the \"Hoodlum Cracktro\" was released and widely acknowledged in November.\nIn April 2005 \"Mini\" won the \"Maximum Overdose\" party for TRSI as combined demo on the Commodore 64.\nTristar & Red Sector Incorporated produced for the DTV in 2006. \"Animatron\" came in third on the Commodore 64 at the Breakpoint demo competition in April.\nFor the console demo section, \"Bloody Memories\" ranked fourth with Titan on the PSP.\nAt \"Maximum Overdose\" in May, \"Rohrschach\" won as combined demo on the Commodore 64 for TRSI.\nThe Evoke took place in August, where a third place was scored with Titan for \"Lick It\" on the PSP.\nIn April 2007, Tristar & Red Sector Incorporated released a firstie on the Xbox 360 with Bloody Memories 2.01, a combined XNA demo and sample game, The Great Giana Sisters, ranking fourth in the wild demo competition at \"Breakpoint\", produced by 71M, Ayatollah, Mike, Shazz, Spotter, H2O, WODK and Rebb.\nGhost in the Machine took the crown at Maximum Overdose as combined demo on the DTV in May, done by Street Tuff, Peiselulli, Linus, Titus of Rabenauge, Cadaver and Spotter.\nThe One Trick Pony Intro scored first as PC demo at Sundown in September.\nTRSI's 4K Wannabe demo won the Main Party PC wild demo competition in November.\nAstaroth rejoined TRSI with a Flash-Demo called Back2Black at Evoke.\n\nIn February, 2008 - A DTV Odyssey by Street Tuff, Benson, Peiselulli, Linus, and Spotter won the Oxyron demo competition for TRSI, including its very own DTV Modplayer & Speech Emulation.\n2nd Element ranked third at Breakpoint during the animation competition in April, done by H2O, Daxx, Teis, Core and Dicab. In addition, the PSP Slideshow was released by Ayatollah, Mike, H2O, 71M, Spotter and Syphus, which later got converted to PC and MAC by Pasy, Pontscho, Chromag and H2O.\nTristar & Red Sector Incorporated published the Kernel for Demos by Peiselulli on the DTV, plus the classic game Boulder Dash and its source code on the same platform.\nThe Sundown Invitation by 71M, H2O, Teis Dicab and Spotter on Personal Computer was widely well received in July, together with Bitfellas & UK Scene Allstars.\nTRSI reached third place with a live coded Flash-Demo in August at Evoke called Back2Red.\nIn October, 7K Candy by 71M, H2O and Chromag placed first at Main 2008 as wild demo.\nThe \"Numerica Artparty\" mp3 competition in March 2009 was won by Tristar & Red Sector Incorporated. Parallel, a \"T2\" cracktro for Genesis had been released.\nIn April, \"Fortress of Narzod\" by Peiselulli, Linus, Benson and Street Tuff secured a second place with 32K in the 96K game competition on C64 at Breakpoint, while \"Le Cube\" won third as a wild demo in conjunction with Drifters & Calodox plus extra help by Spotter and Santa. A handmade graphic \"The Sleeping Gods\" came in fourth, penciled by Spotter.\nThe mp3 and tracking music competitions at Evoke in August brought a second respectively third place for the group, while at \"Buenzli\", the joined venture of Drifters / TRSI / Calodox got the second prize for the OHP demo \"Laseriter\".\nThe 4K demo \"Caulifire\" collected a third slot at \"Function\" in September. Early October saw TRSI contributing to the \"Main\" party in France, including a popular invitro in conjunction with Alcatraz and the Rebels cooperation \"Hil\", which scored fourth as combined 4K on PC. A DTV production Misery III got first as wild demo, \"My private Spacetrip\" by Seven ranked second at the huge screen on the locations rooftop and \"I'm free\" by Teis came in third in the music competition.\nIn December, the \"TMDC Twelve\" party witnessed a first place for the textmode demo Compofiller, crafted by Teis and Hardy. At The Ultimate Meeting, Tristar & Red Sector Incorporated won the 4K compo with l4Kuna, again by Hardy and Teis.\n\nApril saw the last \"Breakpoint\" and a second place for Peiselulli's 96K game Spike, with help by Linus, Benson, Streetuff and Yazoo. Spotter released Para'N'droiD in cooperation with Bodo of Rabenauge, eyebex of Brain Control and music by Ralf Wadephul, the first real interactive touch-screen, motion-sensor and live video feed demo on Google's Android mobile phone platform. After presenting the final 3D version of \"Para'N'droiD\" at the Droidcon in Berlin with Irata, ZDF / 3sat first postet the final video on the net. To honor the old school scene spirit, the complete source code was also made public, to push development on Android platforms! June 2010 brought a 3rd place in the \"At Party\" Freestyle Music Competition for the group.\nTRSI was twenty years old, still alive and kicking! The claim for Tristar & Red Sector Incorporated's anniversary year said: \"TRSi believe\". In August, Teis won the Tiny Tracking Music competition of \"Evoke\", while Hardy's 4K PC intro \"Large Hedron Collider\" captured second place. Hardy's PC 4K The Amster-Damn Cancer Cube ranked 3rd at \"Main\" in October, parallel to a third place in the Big Screen Compo with \"Wicked Huge Sensation\". Finally, \"Happy New Year\" by Rebels & TRSI settled at the second slot as a 4K on PC at \"TUM\" in December.\nThe \"Revision\" party in April 2011 witnessed the birth of a critically acclaimed music disc called TRSi Elektroshock - We never Stop the Chip Rock produced by Spotter, with help of 71M, Sal-One, Irata and others, as a retrospective of 25 years in underground sound, including tracks by Razor 1911, Fairlight, various TRSI members plus many more artists and renowned voice actors. Also, Teis secured a second place in the Executable New School music compo. In July 2011, Cons came in 3rd in the \"Sommarhack\" Music competition. Early August witnessed Rebb's two second places in \"Assembly's\" Fast and Extreme Music competition, while Street Tuff's \"We got Signal\" captured third place at \"Evoke\" for the Wild compo, as a C64 one-filer, including a calligraphy logo by Sai and Spotter. The \"Demodays Party\", formerly known as \"Buenzli\", in later 2011 was a success for TRSI, by adding a first place for WoDK in the Graphics competition, a third place for Cons and Teis featuring Streettuff in the Music competition and, in collaboration with H2o, another first slot in the Wild competition with Krawall(brause). In October, a third place was added to the list with Cons' track for the \"TRSAC\" 32k Exemusic competition. Concluding the year 2011 right after xmas, Hardy & Teis won the Combined 4K compo at \"The Ultimate Meeting\" for TRSI with Tunnel Angst.\n\nThe second installment of \"Revision\" over Easter weekend in April did see two important releases for the group. In the Old School Demo compo, Tristar & Red Sector Incorporated's 8-bit crew ranked 2nd, with Street Tuff's last C64 release, counting 12 multi-parts, featuring Benson, Peiselulli, Stainless Steel and Titus: Krawall Deluxe Expanding the all-time record to five world First Releases on new hardware platforms in six consecutive years, the TRSI Console Division presented Funky Fresh, a realtime Blu-ray interactive production, running on PS3, stand alone BR boxes and PC soft players. This 2nd place in the Wild compo was done by Luis, Forcer and Battlecommand, produced by Spotter, included help of Wodk and Alien, after an idea cited by Bodo. To support development, the full source code was published. Slogan at the time: \"Secondly - First things First\". A week later, the \"Pixel Jam\" party in Cleveland brought a 2nd place in Freestyle Graphics for TRSI's Forcer, followed up by a 3rd place with Cons in the same competition. Still back to back in April, Forcer struck a silver medal at \"Inercia Demoparty\" with his \"Deja Vu\" for the Graphics compo and secured the competition winning first slot at VIP in the Bitmap Graphics event with \"Master of Aviation\". At the same party, WodK's \"Fly 2 VIP\" won the Raytraced Graphics compo.\nIn June, Titan, TRSI and Sun Spire Records got 1st place in the PC competition with their coop invitro Nordlicht, presented at \"Flashback\" and sporting graphics by Forcer. Later this month, TRSI & Desire won the Overhead Projector compo of \"At Party\" with the OHP Mega Demo 9000, engineered by Luis, with a soundtrack by Cons, while Forcer was crowned in the Freestyle Graphics slot.\nJuly brought the \"Nordlicht\" party with this high-score: Forcer and Cons got 1st and 2nd place in the Graphics compo, Virgill and Cons secured a second in the Photo competition and Vampires Empire was the runner up in the Demo compo on DTV, by Peiselulli, Streetuff, Forcer, Zabu plus Aegis. August's \"Evoke\" in Cologne handed the gold medal to Hardy and Virgill for Zuckz in the 4K competition. In September, the \"Demodays\" party got a win for Forcer and a 3rd place for Wodk in the Graphics compo, followed by a 2nd slot for Cons at \"Sundown\" in the Old School Graphics discipline. \"Main\" party in October brought the 2nd place in a Combined Intro category by Hardy and Virgill with Gangnam.\nMontreal hosted the \"Recursion\" party in November, where TRSI won first prizes in: Graphics, the Demo compo for Chalcogens as a coop with Desire and Quebarium, plus the Wild Demo slot for Metal Skin Slidetro by Forcer, Luis, Romeo Knight Kepler and Spotter. Also, their new official .nfo file with ASCII art by H7 was released.\n\nFebruary saw Xerxes winning the SceneSat Radio Remix of the Year Award as Best Newcomer for his version of \"Ba1\", released on \"TRSI Elektroshock\", the Vinyl Edition. Celebrating this, the digital mastering version of \"TRSI Elektroshock\" was published in March, with a refreshed playlist. A few days before the Easter weekend, Elko got 2nd in the 3 Color Logo compo on CSDB on his Digital Playground. In April, the third \"Revision\" party got Streetuff winning the Old School Intro compo with 4Krawall. In the Wild, TRSI and SVatG got third through \"Jupiter Beyond\", followed by Space Madness by Luis and Spotter, with help from Elko, H7, Subi, Wertstahl, Kompositkrut, Meitikos, and Alien^PDX, on Arduino Mega and Game Arduino. Modern Graphics were won by Forcer for \"Double Trouble\", in a combination with Prince. The cooperation between TRSI and Cherry Darling got third place for Games with \"October Games\".\nAt the \"Nordlicht\" party in July, places one (in cooperation with DSS & Crest), two, three and five were won by TRSI in the Oldschool demo compo. \"Evoke\" in Cologne got a 2nd prize for Kologne Koder Kolorz in 4K by Hardy Hard, followed by a third slot for Elko in the pixeled pics with \"Healthy Meals for Summer Days\" and a runner up in freestyle graphics by Prince.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29354893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29354893", "title": "Uninsured employer", "text": "Uninsured employer\n\nUninsured employer in the United States is a term to identify an employer of workers under circumstances where there is no form of insurance in place to provide certain benefits to those workers. More specifically, it is a term used in workers’ compensation law to identify an employer who does not have some form of worker’s compensation insurance or self-insurance coverage in effect at the time of, or during the time of, a claimed injury.\n\nAll States require that employers provide injury benefits coverage to their employees. These benefits are called workers’ compensation insurance coverage. This kind of coverage is to be distinguished from liability coverage, which covers the premises and the owner/occupier of the space from claims made by non-employees for injuries on the premises. It is also to be distinguished from health insurance, which covers only medical bills for non-work incurred conditions.\n\nProtection can be accomplished through a traditional insurance policy for workers’ compensation coverage. Coverage can also be accomplished by way of compliance with various State self-insurance laws (usually reserved for larger employers) requiring substantial bonding and self-funding. For example, public agencies are usually permissibly self-insured.\n\nWhen the employer has no specific insurance, or arrangement for the provision of workers’ compensation benefits to injured employees, the employer is then referred to as an uninsured employer.\n\nThis status is highly negative one in most States and often deemed a crime under State law. When there are no funds available to cover the benefits, and resulting bills for such benefits, the State usually steps in and provides the funding; hence the State’s interest in making the failure to have coverage both legally and financially painful. Most often this involves complete repayment to the State, fines, penalties, business closure, and the loss of legal defenses. The seriousness of the status by the uninsured employer is often underestimated due to unfamiliarity with the system and the belief that, like automobile uninsured motorist law, a quick settlement can be made by the uninsured for a modest amount to end the process. This is contrary to State law and recent studies in California have shown that for 2009 average claim cost is upwards of $60,000 and continually rising.\n\nMost often US states set aside fund to pay claims to injured workers under certain circumstances. Below are some examples:\n\nTwo special funds pay claims to injured workers under certain circumstances.\n\n\n\nThe New York State Workers' Compensation Board's Bureau of Compliance oversees uninsured claims. The Uninsured Employers Fund (UEF) is the funding mechanism for compensation and medical payments to injured employees whose employer was not properly insured at the time of the accident.\n\nThe risks to an uninsured employer are many, and can threaten the continued existence and viability of the firm. These risks include:\n\n\nWhile an uninsured employer does face a real problem, such as a prospective fine, prosecution, or employee injury, or is actually sued, there are steps the employer can take to minimize the consequences. Several established law firms can represent the employer in all administrative hearings and appeals, and advise the employer how to proceed. The goal for the uninsured employer is not only to achieve resolution to the immediate problem, but also to protect the assets of the firm, and to reach an accommodation with the regulatory agencies that enables the company to go forward in compliance with the law. The Uninsured Employer Benefit Trust Fund in CA does not have funding or staff to mitigate the value of an uninsured claim. UEBTF merely pays the claim and all costs as claimed by the Applicant/Plaintiff, and assesses the cost against the uninsured employer. If legal counsel is retained by the uninsured employer, there is at least opportunity to mitigate the value/reimbursement to UEBTF. Additionally, legal counsel can sometimes mitigate the administrative penalties, and negotiate repayment plans that allow the business to continue.\n\n"}
{"id": "5286263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5286263", "title": "Vassili Kononov", "text": "Vassili Kononov\n\nVassili Makarovich Kononov or Vasiliy Makarovich Kononov (, ; 1 January 192331 March 2011) was a Soviet partisan during World War II, who was convicted by Latvian supreme court as a war criminal. He is the only former Soviet partisan convicted of crimes against humanity.\n\nKononov was convicted for his role in three deaths in Mazie Bati, a Latvian village where local inhabitants had denounced alleged partisans who were then killed by German troops. A short time later Kononov led a unit, posing as German Wehrmacht personnel, into the village and killed nine civilians, including three women, one in the late stages of pregnancy who was burned alive. A Latvian court declared the killing of the three women a war crime.\nOn 29 February 1944, Latvian villagers from Mazie Bati (Malye Baty) allowed 12 men from the Soviet reconnaissance-sabotage group to stay in their barns. The next day, at six in the morning, the Germans, who Kononov suspected the villagers of aiding, burned and machine-gunned the barns. All 12 partisans, including the leader Major Chugunov, his wife Antonina and their 7-month-old son, were killed.\n\nOn 27 May 1944, a detachment of the Soviet First Latvian Partisan Battalion led by Kononov staged a \"counter operation\" against the village of Mazie Bati. In this operation, nine villagers were accused of being the \"German auxiliaries\" (the Latvian armed resistance against the Soviet occupation of Latvia sided with the German invaders in 1941) responsible for the prior incident. Kononov's men were sent to capture the villagers pursuant to an ad-hoc Military Tribunal verdict.\n\nKononov and his men conducted the operation wearing German Wehrmacht uniforms so as not to arouse the suspicion of the villagers. Nine villagers were killed, including three women, one in the late stages of pregnancy who was burned alive. Buildings were burned as well.\n\nIn July 1998, original proceedings against Kononov were commenced by the Latvian Principal Public Prosecutor's Office, whereby in August 1998 he was formally charged and ultimately indicted in December 1998. Kononov pleaded not guilty at the trial which began in January 1999. Ample evidence of guilt was found by the court where Kononov was in violation of the Charter of the International Military Tribunal (\"IMT\") Nuremberg, the Hague Convention (IV) 1907 and the Geneva Convention (IV) 1949. He was found guilty and sentenced to six years imprisonment.\n\nOn 25 April 2000, the Criminal Affairs Division in Latvia overturned his conviction on the grounds that it was not clearly established whether Kononov was operating on occupied territory and whether he and his men could be considered combatants, as well as whether the villagers could be considered prisoners of war based on their armament by the Germans. On 27 June 2000, the Supreme Court of Latvia dismissed the prosecutor's appeal, ultimately setting Kononov free.\n\nOn 17 May 2001, Kononov was once again charged by the prosecutor's office following a new investigation. The deaths of six men were deemed justifiable, but the deaths of the three women were deemed an act of banditry, in violation of the law, but ultimately barred by statute of limitations. The prosecution appealed and on 30 April 2004, the decision of the lower court was overturned and Kononov was found guilty of war crimes, and subsequently jailed. On 28 September 2004, the Supreme Court upheld the verdict of the court in dismissing Kononov's appeal.\n\nOn 19 June 2008, Kononov's lawyer Mikhail Ioffe, announced that the European Court of Human Rights had overturned the Latvian court ruling. He also said that Kononov was seeking in compensation for the two and a half years his client spent in a Latvian prison.\n\nA press release published by the ECHR on 24 July 2008 revealed the Court's decision, establishing, by four votes to three, that the Kononov's case presented a violation of Article 7 (no retrospective punishment) of the European Convention on Human Rights. Kononov was awarded in respect of non-pecuniary damage.\n\nOn 14 October 2008, the government of Latvia decided to appeal the 24 July judgment. On 9 February 2009, the case Kononov v. Latvia was referred to the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights. In May 2009, Lithuania has joined Latvia using its right to participate in the case.\n\nIn May 2010, the Grand Chamber ruled, by 14 votes to 3, that the case presented no violation of Article 7 ECHR. Under the Hague Regulations of 1907, the court determined Kononov could be punished for failing to meet the regulation criteria, specifically, wearing German Wehrmacht uniforms while carrying out the crimes. The court determined the execution of the villagers was in violation of established international law at the time, as Kononov was only entitled to arrest them, and his conviction was not barred by statute of limitations.\n\nAt various times throughout the period of his prosecution for alleged war crimes, Kononov has received official support from the Government of Russia. In April 2000, immediately before judgement was to be handed down in his appeal with the Supreme Court of Latvia, he was offered citizenship of the Russian Federation by President Vladimir Putin. Kononov accepted the offer, which entailed giving up his previously-held Latvian citizenship. On the event of his 80th birthday in 2003, Kononov received personal greetings from the Russian President, delivered at a ceremony held in the Russian Embassy in Riga.\n\nIn the hearings of his case at the ECHR, Russia acted as a third party, and on occasion publicly urged the Court to prioritise Kononov's case. Sergey Mironov, speaker of the Federation Council of Russia, expressed hopes that President Dmitry Medvedev's Historical Truth Commission would also become involved in the Kononov case.\n\nKononov's defence team, along with Russia's representative to the ECHR, Deputy Justice Minister Georgi Matyushkin, warned the ruling poses grave dangers to the legal legacy of the Nuremberg tribunals from World War II. Matyushkin stated \"there are signs of attempts to revise the results of the Nuremberg processes.\"\nWilliam Schabas, Latvia's counsel at the ECtHR trial, on the contrary, considers that the dissenting minority held Nuremberg judgment to be contrary to the Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nKononov's former superior officer, later academician and Soviet functionary, Vilis Samsons, has questioned some of the First Latvian Partisan Battalion's wartime reports upon which the accusations against Kononov are based, alleging the description of the Mazie Bati operation was rife with factual errors and imprecisions.\n\nKononov died in Latvia on 31 March 2011 at the age of 88. In a telegram to Kononov's family, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev stated: \"Vasily Kononov selflessly fought the Nazi invaders throughout the years of the Great Patriotic War. He remained loyal to the common bonds forged in battle and defended the truth about the events of those years throughout his entire life.\"\n\nIn recognition of his wartime service, the Soviet Union awarded Kononov various honours, including:\n\n\n\n\n"}
