{"id": "20753398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20753398", "title": "Ames Almanack", "text": "Ames Almanack\n\nAmes' Almanack (almanac) was the first almanac printed in the British North American colonies. While Benjamin Franklin's \"Poor Richard's Almanac\" is the one often mentioned in contemporary history classes, at the time \"Ames' Almanack\" enjoyed a much larger readership. Franklin's publication had a circulation of 10,000 copies, while \"Ames' Almanack\" had a circulation of 60,000.\n\nNathaniel Ames, a second generation colonial American, established and wrote \"Ames' Almanac\". Ames was only seventeen when the first almanac was printed. The family also owned Ames Tavern and often advertised the establishment in the almanac. Upon Ames' death in 1764, his son, also Nathaniel, began writing the almanac. He continued to print the almanac until 1775. The younger Nathaniel strongly supported the antifederalist cause, which contrasted to his brother, the prominent Federalist congressman Fisher Ames. Based on a correspondence between Ames and Roger Sherman, it appears that Sherman wrote some of the mathematical portions of the almanac in 1753.\n\nWith no real intellectual property enforcement, readers frequently copied the almanac for others. This led to bickering among printers as to who published the genuine edition of \"Ames' Almanack\" forcing Ames to certify by card as to the original version.\n\nAmes wrote during a time of a growing national concept of 'America' and not that of the traditional political conception of 'state' (in Ames' case Massachusetts). The growing conception of a national 'American' entity was reflected and propagated by the annual almanacs. By 1775, the almanac published a manual on how to make gunpowder so that every man could supply himself \"with a sufficiency of that commodity.\" As the American Revolution started in 1775, there was a severe gunpowder shortage in Boston. As George Washington wrote to Congress, the Continental Army was \"exceedingly destitute\" of the material.\n\nAmes took a stand on the religious Great Awakening running through the colonies in the early 18th century. The Great Awakening challenged the traditional authority of the congregationalist church. George Whitefield, an English evangelist, created controversy in the colonies with his Great Awakening sermons. In 1741, Ames satirized critics of Whitefield in \"To the Scoffers at Mr. Whitefield's Preaching.\" Four years later, Whitefield came to Ames' hometown of Dedham to give one of his sermons.\n\nThe same format used in \"Ames' Almanack\" was implemented by the Old Farmer's Almanac the popular annual publication in existence since 1792. This includes the following: page headings with the corresponding zodiac sign; left margin noting movable feasts, lines from a poem relevant to that month; phases of the moon; weather predictions; and anniversaries.\n\nSome early colonists used the blank pages of the almanac to keep personal diaries. Their memories are interlaced within the annual almanacs. The American Antiquarian Society collection in Worcester, Massachusetts holds at least two of these diaries, including that of Reverend Thomas Balch (1759). Ebenezer Gay, a pastor at the Church at Hingham in Hingham, Massachusetts similarly recorded his visits to Boston and days of prayer in his copy of the \"Ames Almanack\".\n"}
{"id": "880871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880871", "title": "Background check", "text": "Background check\n\nA background check or background investigation is the process of looking up and compiling criminal records, commercial records, and financial records of an individual or an organization.\n\nBackground checks are often requested by employers on job candidates for employment screening, especially on candidates seeking a position that requires high security or a position of trust, such as in a school, courthouse, hospital, financial institution, airport, and government. These checks are traditionally administered by a government agency for a nominal fee, but can also be administered by private companies. Background checks can be expensive depending on the information requested. Results of a background check typically include past employment verification, credit history, and criminal history. The objective of background checks is to ensure the safety and security of the employees in the organisation. Peoples backgrounds can be something they are born into or born with for example being born into a religion or being born with a disability. They can also be developed over the course of someone's life that will affect them in the future\n\nThese checks are often used by employers as a means of judging a job candidate's past mistakes, character, and fitness, and to identify potential hiring risks for safety and security reasons. Background checks are also used to thoroughly investigate potential government employees in order to be given a security clearance. However, these checks may sometimes be used for illegal purposes, such as unlawful discrimination (or employment discrimination), identity theft, and violation of privacy.\n\nChecks are frequently conducted to confirm information found on an employment application or résumé/curriculum vitae. One study showed that half of all reference checks done on prospective employees differed between what the job applicant provided and what the source reported. They may also be conducted as a way to further differentiate potential employees and pick the one the employer feels is best suited for the position. Employers have an obligation to make sure their work environment is safe for all employees and helps prevent other employment problems in the workplace.\n\nIn the United States, the Brady Bill requires criminal checks for those wishing to purchase handguns from licensed firearms dealers. Restricted firearms (like machine guns), suppressors, explosives or large quantities of precursor chemicals, and concealed weapons permits also require criminal checks.\n\nChecks are also required for those working in positions with special security concerns, such as trucking, ports of entry, and airports (including airline transportation). Other laws exist to prevent those who do not pass a criminal check from working in careers involving the elderly, disabled, or children.\n\nPre-employment screening refers to the process of investigating the backgrounds of potential employees and is commonly used to verify the accuracy of an applicant's claims as well as to discover any possible criminal history, workers compensation claims, or employer sanctions. For example, CBC News of Canada reported that fraud in the workplace cost Canadian Businesses over $3.2 Billion in 2011.\n\nA number of annual reports, including BDO Stoy Hayward's Fraudtrack 4 and CIFAS's (The UK's fraud prevention service) 'The Enemy Within' have showed a rising level of major discrepancies and embellishments on CVs over previous years. \n\nAlmost half (48%) of organizations with fewer than 100 staff experienced problems with vetted employees.\n\nThirty-nine percent of UK organizations have experienced a situation where their vetting procedures have allowed an employee to be hired who was later found to have lied or misrepresented themselves in their application.\n\nSince the onset of the financial crisis of 2007–2010, the level of fraud has almost doubled and some experts have predicted that it will escalate further. Background-checking firm Powerchex has claimed the number of applicants lying on their applications has been increasing since the summer of 2007 when the financial crisis began. In 2009, Powerchex claimed that nearly one in 5 applicants has a major lie or discrepancy on his or her application.\n\nThe first Polish research on the issue of pre-employment screening shows that 81% of recruiters have come across the phenomenon of lies in the CVs of candidates for the job. The survey was conducted by IBBC Group and Background Screening Service, which deal with outsourcing and conducting background screenings in Central - Eastern Europe.\n\nThe research shows how many failures occurred in the relationship between employer and employee over the years and what dangers it brings. Applicants usually lie about additional skills (85%), dates of employment (58%), responsibilities (53%) or positions (28%).\n\nDue to bad hire, employers lose in a multitude of ways: financial-wise, reputation-wise and time-wise. The research shows that as many as 77% of them have lost significant sums of money to carry out the re-recruitment. Moreover, the companies have suffered losses after hiring the dishonest employee due to his low competences (57%), lack of diligence at work (28%), spending on additional training (28%) or problems with attendance (15%) and employee theft (7%). The demand for pre-employment screenings is constantly growing among Polish entrepreneurs.\n\nBackground screening can be conducted in Poland on the grounds of written consent of the person. Depending on the degree to which recruitment is carried out, verifications can include: identity, history of education, employment history, reason for leaving, additional qualifications, employee opinion, criminal record, indebtedness, references, business connections, presence on sanction lists, presence in the media.\nWhile background screening and verification is well established in Australia and New Zealand, it is in its infancy in Asia and regulations vary widely across the region. Leading background screening companies in the region must navigate different regulatory frameworks and market leaders offer a full complement of services including financial probity, education, criminal background checking where legal, directorships.\n\nLarger companies are more likely to outsource than their smaller counterparts – the average staff size of the companies who outsource is 3,313 compared to 2,162 for those who carry out in-house checks.\n\nFinancial services firms had the highest proportion of respondents who outsource the service, with over a quarter (26%) doing so, compared to an overall average of 16% who outsource vetting to a third party provider.\n\nThe construction and property industry showed the lowest level of outsourcing, with 89% of such firms in the sample carrying out checks in-house, making the overall average 16%. This can increase over the years.\n\nCompanies that choose to outsource must be sure to use companies that are Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) compliant. Companies that fail to use an FCRA compliant company may face legal issues due to the complexity of the law.\n\n\nThe Financial Services Authority states in their Training & Competence guidance that regulated firms should have:\n\n\nThe Financial Services Authority’s statutory objectives:\n\n\nDue to the sensitivity of the information contained in consumer reports and certain records, there are a variety of important laws regulating the dissemination and legal use of this information. Most notably, the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) regulates the use of consumer reports (which it defines as information collected and reported by third party agencies) as it pertains to adverse decisions, notification to the applicant, and destruction and safekeeping of records.\n\nIf a consumer report is used as a factor in an adverse hiring decision, the applicant must be presented with a \"pre-adverse action disclosure,\" a copy of the FCRA summary of rights, and a \"notification of adverse action letter.\" Individuals are entitled to know the source of any information used against them including a credit reporting company. Individuals must also consent in order for the employer to obtain a credit report. Pre-employment credit reports do not include a credit score. A pre-employment credit report will show up on an individuals credit report as a \"soft inquiry\" and do not affect the individual's credit score.\n\nTitle XLV, section 768.095, of the \"Florida Statutes\" protects employers from negligent hiring liabilities, provided they attempt to conduct certain screening procedures. Employers who follow these steps will be presumed not to have been negligent when hiring if a background check fails to reveal any records on an applicant.\n\nThere are a variety of types of investigative searches that can be used by potential employers. Many commercial sites will offer specific searches to employers for a fee. Services like these will actually perform the checks, supply the company with adverse action letters, and ensure compliance throughout the process. It is important to be selective about which pre-employment screening agency one uses. A legitimate company will be happy to explain the process. Many employers choose to search the most common records such as criminal records, driving records, and education verification. Other searches such as sex offender registry, credential verification, skills assessment, reference checks, credit reports and Patriot Act searches are becoming increasingly common. Employers should consider the position in question when determining which types of searches to include, and should always use the same searches for every applicant being considered for one.\n\nThe amount of information included on a background check depends to a large degree on the sensitivity of the reason for which it is conducted—e.g., somebody seeking employment at a minimum wage job would be subject to far fewer requirements than somebody applying to work for a law enforcement agency such as the FBI or jobs related to national security.\n\n\nDrug tests and credit checks for employment are highly controversial practices. According to the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a project of the Utility Consumers' Action Network (UCAN): \"While some people are not concerned about background investigations, others are uncomfortable with the idea of investigators poking around in their personal histories. In-depth checks could unearth information that is irrelevant, taken out of context, or just plain wrong. A further concern is that the report might include information that is illegal to use for hiring purposes or which comes from questionable sources.\"\n\nIn May 2002, allegedly improper post-hire checks conducted by Northwest Airlines were the subject of a civil lawsuit between Northwest and 10,000 of their mechanics.\n\nIn the case of an arrest that did not lead to a conviction, employment checks can continue including the arrest record for up to seven years, per § 605 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act:\nSubsection (b) provides for an exception if the report is in connection with \"the employment of any individual at an annual salary which equals, or which may reasonably be expected to equal $75,000, or more\".\n\nSome proposals for decreasing potential harm to innocent applicants include:\n\nIn New Zealand, criminal checks have been affected by the \"Criminal Records (Clean Slate) Act 2004\", which allows individuals to legally conceal \"less serious\" convictions from their records provided they had been conviction-free for at least seven years.\n\nIn Michigan, the system of criminal checks has been criticized in a recent case where a shooting suspect was able to pass an FBI check to purchase a shotgun although he had failed the check for a state handgun permit. According to the spokesman of the local police department,\nThe Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence has criticized the federal policy, which denies constitutional rights based on a criminal check only if the subject has been accused of a crime.\n\nTaking advantage of public records availability in the United States, a number of Web-based companies began purchasing U.S. public records data and selling it online, primarily to assist the general public in locating people. Many of these sites advertise background research and provide employers and/or landlords with fee-based checks.\n\nThere has been a growing movement on the web to use advertising-based models to subsidize these checks. These companies display targeted ads next to the reports delivered to landlords or employers. Some of the reports provided by these pay sites are only expanded versions of a basic people search providing a 20-year history of addresses, phone numbers, marriages and divorces, businesses owned and property ownership. Usually, these sites will also provide a nationwide criminal report for an added charge.\n\nAs a general rule, employers may not take adverse action against an applicant or employee (not hiring or terminating them), solely on the basis of results obtained through a database search. Database searches, as opposed to source records searches (search of actual county courthouse records), are notoriously inaccurate, contain incomplete or outdated information, and should only be used as an added safety net when conducting a background check. Failure by employers to follow FCRA guidelines can result in hefty penalties.\n\n"}
{"id": "25762989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25762989", "title": "Betts v Armstead", "text": "Betts v Armstead\n\nBetts v. Armstead, L.R. 20 Q.B.D. 771 (1888), was an English case decided by the Queen's Bench that adopted a strict liability standard for violations of the Sale of Food and Drugs Act of 1875 (38 & 39 Vict. c. 63). The defendant contended that he did not know that his product did not abide by the standards of the statute, but the court held that there was no mens rea requirement for the violation.\n"}
{"id": "37313339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37313339", "title": "Bill Graham Archives v. Dorling Kindersley, Ltd.", "text": "Bill Graham Archives v. Dorling Kindersley, Ltd.\n\nBill Graham Archives v. Dorling Kindersley, Ltd., 448 F.3d 605 (2d Cir. 2006), is a case in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit regarding the fair use of images in a pictorial history text. \n\nDorling Kindersley (\"DK\") is a publisher of popular books, including colorful picture books for children and \"coffee table books\". In October 2003, DK and Grateful Dead Productions published \"Grateful Dead: The Illustrated Trip\". The book was a 480-page coffee table book that included a wide variety of Grateful Dead-related information and imagery. The book included a timeline \"running continuously through the book, chronologically combining over 2000 images representing dates in the Grateful Dead's history with explanatory text.\"\n\nDK had sought permission from Bill Graham Archives (\"BGA\") for the use of seven images but after negotiations fell through used the images without permission. The seven images were originally Grateful Dead event posters, and they were reproduced as thumbnails along the timeline, along with captions describing the actual events.\n\nDK declined to pay BGA's licensing demands after publication, and BGA sued. The District Court (SDNY) granted summary judgment to DK on their fair use defense. Bill Graham Archives appealed to the Second Circuit. DK, represented by copyright litigator Richard Dannay, again asserted fair use, and the Second Circuit affirmed: \"We agree with the district court that DK's use of the copyrighted images is protected as fair use.\"\n"}
{"id": "39648797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39648797", "title": "Carl Diercke", "text": "Carl Diercke\n\nCarl Diercke (born 15 September 1842 in Kyritz, Ostprignitz; died 7 March 1913 in Berlin) was a German cartographer.\n\nFrom 1863 to 1865, Diercke studied in Berlin. In 1875, Diercke started German geography atlas \"Diercke\". Diercke was the first in the world to develop a world atlas without leaving his birth country\n\nIn 1871, he married Hermine Marie Ottilie Lucas.\n\nDiercke was one of about 250 German brands selected in 2016 by , Deutsche Standards, and Meiré and Meiré to be recognized as \"Brands of the Century\" for having a strong brand.\n\n\nWebsites for the active Diercke imprint at Westermann Gruppe:\n"}
{"id": "33486904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33486904", "title": "Centro Galego de Artes da Imaxe", "text": "Centro Galego de Artes da Imaxe\n\nThe Centro Galego de Artes da Imaxe is a film archive in A Coruña, Spain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18576293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18576293", "title": "Colchester Reef Light", "text": "Colchester Reef Light\n\nThe Colchester Reef Light in Vermont was a lighthouse off Colchester Point (northwest of Burlington, Vermont) in Lake Champlain. It was moved to the Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vermont in 1956.\n\nIn 1869 the United States Lighthouse Service commissioned the building of the Colchester Reef Lighthouse on Lake Champlain to protect ships from the “Middle Bunch Reef,” comprising the Colchester Reef, the Colchester Shoals, and the Hogback Reef.\n\nThis lighthouse was one of a group of New England lighthouses built to the same plan. Nearly identical lighthouses were constructed at Sabin Point, Pomham Rocks, and Rose Island, all three located in Rhode Island waters.\n\nIn the mid-nineteenth century, due in large part to the booming lumber business, which relied on easy shipping of raw timber from Canada to planing mills in western Vermont, commerce on Lake Champlain significantly increased. To protect ships in potentially hazardous waterways, the Lighthouse Service held a national competition for lighthouse designs, and Albert R. Dow, a Burlington native from the University of Vermont, won the commission. The Lighthouse Service implemented Dow's designs in building the Colchester Reef Lighthouse, which marked the reef consisting of several groups of exposed rocks northwest of Colchester Point. It was completed in 1871.\n\nBecause the lighthouse needed to endure the lake's strong winds and heavy winter ice-floes, Dow pegged and bolted together the lighthouse's twenty-five-foot square stone foundation, post-and-beam frame and tower, and slate and tin roof. Dow then secured the entire building with one and a half inch thick iron rods to assure its stability. Despite Dow's focus on the building's framework, he ornamented his lighthouse with a mansard roof and scrolled window frames typical of the then-fashionable French Second Empire style. A sixth order Fresnel lens exhibited a fixed red light beginning in 1871.\n\nThe lighthouse served as both the home and workplace of eleven successive keepers and their families. The first floor was divided into a living room and kitchen and the second floor into four bedrooms. Coal stoves provided heat while large pumps retrieved water from the lake. The keepers used the nearby island to the north, Hogback Island, as farmland. The Island was auctioned off in 1956 after the lighthouse was decommissioned and was renamed Sunset Island.\n\nThe exposed location and northerly climate meant that ice figured heavily in incidents involving the lighthouse. In one instance, the keeper's wife went into labor in January 1888. Summoned by the fog bell, the doctor and his assistant attempted to cross the ice, but were blown north when it broke up, eventually landing safely at South Hero Island (also known as Grand Isle), four miles to the north. The baby was safely born with the father assisting alone.\n\nIn 1933 the Lighthouse Service decommissioned the Colchester Reef Lighthouse after the automatic electric beacon made the hand-operated system obsolete. Over the years the light suffered damage from ice floes and gradually fell into disrepair. Nineteen years later, in 1952, it was put up for auction and sold to Mr. & Mrs. Paul and Lorraine Bessette of Winooski, VT. for $50, to be dismantled for timber to construct a home. After this sale, Vermont historian Ralph Nading Hill ferried Electra Webb to the now-derelict lighthouse. Entranced, she persuaded the Bessettes to sell it for $1300 and substitute building materials. Webb purchased the lighthouse and had it moved to the museum grounds in the fall. Undaunted by the hazards involved, her veteran crew catalogued each piece of the building before moving the heavy beams, stairways, doors, and windows to reconstruct the building on museum grounds.\n\nThe Coast Guard donated the lens, fog bell, and striking mechanism, and in 2006 assisted with the mounting of a modern solar-powered beacon in the lantern, allowing the beacon to be lit for the first time since its decommissioning. With the house removed, a modern steel tower was mounted on the pier.\n\nShelburne Museum’s furniture collection represents the different styles and tastes of 18th and 19th century America. It includes examples of the most sophisticated urban furniture produced in the nation as well as many simpler pieces made by country cabinetmakers for use in rural homes. These country pieces include one of the greatest strengths of the museum – its collection of paint-decorated furniture.\n\nDuring the American industrial revolution (ca. 1865-1900) the furniture industry, like every other major industry, was mechanized. Individual craftspeople and designers like Louis Comfort Tiffany, whose work can be seen in the Electra Havemeyer Webb Memorial Building continued to work for upper class patrons, but inexpensive, factory-made chairs, tables, beds, and stands flooded and eager market of middle-class Victorians. The popularity of carved decoration and elaborate upholster, characteristic of the period, can be seen on the furniture displayed in the parlor of the Lightouse and on the promenade deck of the Ticonderoga (see Ticonderoga (steamboat)).\n\n"}
{"id": "682349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=682349", "title": "Commemorative Air Force", "text": "Commemorative Air Force\n\nThe Commemorative Air Force (CAF), formerly the Confederate Air Force, is a Texas-based non-profit organization dedicated to preserving and showing historical aircraft at airshows primarily throughout the U.S. and Canada.\n\nThe origin of the Commemorative Air Force can be found in an organization called the \"Confederate Air Corps\" created by Oscar Harper in Montgomery, Alabama in 1953. Led by the fictional character \"Thaddeus P. Throckmorton\" and his recruiting officer \"Jethro Culpepper\", the CAC established several features that later became key characteristics of the CAF: folksy, tongue-in-cheek southern humor; a membership structure based on each member having the equal rank of colonel; and a rallying cry of \"Semper, Mint Julep\".\n\nIn 1957, Lloyd Nolen and four friends purchased a P-51 Mustang, each sharing in the $1,500 cost of the aircraft. With the purchase of the Mustang, known as Red Nose, the group that became the CAF was unofficially founded. In 1958, the group made their second purchase of two Grumman F8F Bearcats for $805 each. Along with the P-51, this gave the pilots the two most advanced piston-engine fighters to see service with the U.S. Army Air Forces and the United States Navy.\n\nIn 1960, the CAF began seriously to search for other World War II aircraft. The CAF colonels were shocked to find that the aircraft which played such a major role in winning World War II were being rapidly and systematically scrapped as obsolete with no efforts, not even by the Air Force or Navy, to preserve any for display for future generations. The warbirds that remained airworthy were mostly in private hands modified for air racing or had been converted for commercial use as air freighters and aerial firefighters.\n\nOn September 6, 1961, the CAF was chartered as a nonprofit Texas corporation to restore and preserve World War II-era combat aircraft. By the end of the year, there were nine aircraft in the CAF fleet. By 1963, the group had achieved their goal of acquiring one of each American World War II fighter plane. Their first airshow was held on March 10, 1963.\n\nIn 1965, the first museum building was completed at old Rebel Field, Mercedes, Texas. The CAF created a new Rebel Field at Harlingen, Texas when they moved there in 1968, occupying three large buildings including of museum space. The CAF fleet continued to grow. By the end of the decade, the CAF fleet included medium and heavy bombers such as the North American B-25 Mitchell, B-17, Consolidated B-24 Liberator. In 1971, they added one of the two airworthy Boeing B-29 Superfortress, \"FiFi\".\n\nIn 1983, the American Airpower Heritage Foundation was founded to financially support the CAF.\n\nThe group's accomplishments were recognized in 1989 when it became a National Aviation Hall of Fame Spirit of Flight Award winner. It was also honored that year when Texas Governor William Clements signed a resolution naming the CAF the air force of Texas.\n\nIn 1990, the CAF added two more corporations. The first was the American Airpower Heritage Flying Museum, tasked with obtaining and maintaining the CAF's aircraft titles. The second was the American Airpower Heritage Museum, which acquired and maintained the CAF's non-aircraft pieces and static displays.\n\n1991 saw the CAF moving operations to Midland, Texas. Once in Midland, the group opened the American Airpower Heritage Museum facilities and the American Combat Airman Hall of Fame.\n\nIn April 2014, the CAF announced the move of their headquarters and all of the planes associated with the headquarters to Dallas Executive Airport in Dallas, TX The museum and its artifacts (including the nose art collection) will also be moved to the new headquarters in Dallas.\n\nToday, the Commemorative Air Force comprises over 12,000 members, including more than seventy regional groups, called wings or detachments, in twenty-seven states and four other countries. Several hundred members actively serve as pilots and flight and/or maintenance crew members committed to preserving American combat aviation heritage. The CAF is an all-volunteer organization, made up of members from all backgrounds. Membership is open to everyone age 18 or older, and cadet membership is available for those over 12 years of age. Although a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, tax-exempt group, the CAF has received financial incentives from state and local governments related to its Dallas relocation as well as its time in Midland.\n\nThe original name, Confederate Air Force, started as a simple tongue in cheek joke, poking fun at the organization's ragtag beginnings. As the collection of warbirds at Central Valley Airport in Mercedes, Texas started to grow, someone painted the name on the side of the original North American P-51 Mustang \"Red Nose\". The name stuck, and it grew to the point where the airport was renamed Rebel Field, all members were called \"colonels\" (a tradition which still remains), and it led to the creation of a fictitious leader named Colonel Jethro E. Culpepper. There was even a humorous CAF twist put to the old AVG Flying Tigers World War II \"blood chit\" that read, \"This foreign person has come to China to help in the war effort. Soldiers and civilians, one and all, should rescue, protect, and provide him medical care.\" The CAF version seen on the backs of flight suits and flight jackets stated, \"This is a CAF aviator. If found lost or unconscious, please hide him from Yankees, revive with mint julep and assist him in returning to friendly territory. CONFEDERATE AIR FORCE\".\n\nFollowing a 2001 membership vote, the group changed its name to Commemorative Air Force effective January 1, 2002. Many felt the name Confederate Air Force was confusing, did not accurately reflect the purpose of the organization, and was detrimental to fundraising efforts. According to CAF chief of staff Ray Kinney, \"In many people's minds, the word 'confederacy' brings up the image of slavery and discrimination. We, in no way, are associated with that kind of stuff. So, it gives us, in a way, a black-eye.\"\n\nThe main objectives of the CAF are:\n\n\n, the CAF owns 166 aircraft, of which 131 are in airworthy condition, 18 are undergoing maintenance, 15 are in restoration, and two are in storage. The entire collection of CAF aircraft is known as the CAF Ghost Squadron. Its aircraft range from the small Stinson L-5 Sentinel and Ryan PT-22 to the giant Boeing B-29 Superfortress; the Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress; and the Consolidated Liberator B Mk I/B-24A Liberator AM927. Many of the CAF aircraft are rare - the CAF operates one of only two flying examples of the historic Boeing B-29 Superfortress, and the only remaining flightworthy Curtiss SB2C Helldiver. Others, such as the B-24/LB-30 Liberator; the Bell P-63 Kingcobra fighter; the Japanese Mitsubishi A6M Zero; and the Douglas SBD Dauntless are one of only two or three of that type left flying today. The CAF also operates Axis and foreign aircraft such as the MiG 17 Fresco C.\n\n\n\nAIRSHO is a yearly event at Midland International Airport showcasing the CAF's aircraft. Because its aircraft tend to be spread out over large geographic distances, and most Ghost Squadron aircraft rarely fly more than a few hours from their home base, AIRSHO is also an opportunity for CAF members to meet up. Ghost Squadron aircraft usually attend AIRSHO every other year. The CAF AIRSHO is the largest warbird air show in the world, with more than eighty warbirds flying per show.\n\nThe CAF has many wings and squadrons. Starting in 2013, a limited number of larger units may be designated as an \"airbase.\" The first is Airbase Arizona, located at Falcon Field in Mesa, AZ and redesignated in Jun 2013. Most CAF units are in the United States, but there are four outside the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49660328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49660328", "title": "Comparison of virtual reality headsets", "text": "Comparison of virtual reality headsets\n\nThis is a list of virtual reality headsets, which are head-mounted displays used to present virtual reality environments.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Including price of VR touch peripherals.\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> Not included in the headset.\n\nThe following tables compare general and technical information for a selection of retail head-mounted display. See the individual display's articles for further information. Please note that the following table may be missing some information.\n"}
{"id": "18121628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18121628", "title": "Declaration of the Rights of the Man and of the Citizen of 1793", "text": "Declaration of the Rights of the Man and of the Citizen of 1793\n\nThe Declaration of the Rights of the Man and of the Citizen of 1793 (French: \"Déclaration des droits de l'Homme et du citoyen de 1793\") is a French political document that preceded that country's first republican constitution. The Declaration and Constitution were ratified by popular vote in July 1793, and officially adopted on 10 August; however, they never went into effect, and the constitution was officially suspended on 10 October. It is unclear whether this suspension was thought to effect the Declaration as well. The Declaration was written by the commission that included Louis Antoine Léon de Saint-Just and Marie-Jean Hérault de Séchelles during the period of the French Revolution. The main distinction between the Declaration of 1793 and the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen of 1789 is its egalitarian tendency: equality is the prevailing right in this declaration. The 1793 version included new rights, and revisions to prior ones: to work, to public assistance, to education, and to resist oppression.\n\nThe text was mainly written by Hérault de Séchelles, whose style and writing can be found on most of the documents of the commission that also wrote the French Constitution of 1793 (\"Constitution of the Year I\") that was never implemented.\n\nThe first project of the Constitution of the French Fourth Republic also referred to the 1793 version of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen. The 1793 document was written by Jacobins after they had expelled the Girondists. It was a compromise designed as a propaganda weapon and did not fully reflect the radicalism of the Jacobin leaders. It was never put in force.\n\nEquality is the most important aspect of the Declaration of 1793. \nIn its second article, equality is the first right mentioned (followed by liberty, security, and property). In Article \"3\" states \"All men are equal by nature and before the law\". As such, for the authors of this declaration equality is not only before the law but it is also a natural right, that is to say, a fact of nature.\n\nThere was already at that time a school of thought that stated that liberty and equality can quickly become contradictory: indeed liberty doesn't solve social inequalities since there exist some natural inequalities (of talent, intelligence, etc.). That school of thought considered that the government had only to protect liberty and to only proclaim natural equality, and eventually liberty would prevail over social equality since all people have different talents and abilities and are free to exercise them.\nThe question raised by this declaration is how to solve social inequalities.\n\"Article 21\" states that every citizen has a right to public help, that society is indebted to each citizen and therefore has the duty to help them. Citizens have there a right to work and society has a duty to provide relief to those who cannot work.\n\"Article 22\" declares a right to education.\n\nThese rights are considered \"2nd generation rights of Man\", economic and social rights (the first ones would be natural or political). These rights entail a greater government intervention in order to reach society's goal, stated in \"article 1\": common welfare.\n\nIndividual liberty is still a primary right and some aspects are more precisely defined than in Declaration of 1789. The declaration explicitly states the freedom of religion, of assembly, and of the press (article 7), of commerce (article 17), of petition (article 32). Slavery is prohibited by article 18 which states \"Every man can contract his services and his time, but he cannot sell himself nor be sold: his person is not an alienable property.\"\n\nIf in a way, this declaration has a more liberal bent in the modern American sense, since it states that there ought to be public policies for the general welfare, it also contains some very strong libertarian aspects.\n\nArticle 7 states \"The necessity of enunciating these rights supposes either the presence or the fresh recollection of despotism.\"\nArticle 9: \"The law ought to protect public and personal liberty against the oppression of those who govern.\"\nArticle 33 states that resisting tyranny is a logical consequence of the rights of man: \"Resistance to oppression is the consequence of the other rights of man\".\nArticle 34 states that if one is oppressed, everyone is.\nArticle 27 states \"Let any person who may usurp the sovereignty be instantly put to death by free men.\" Though the usurpation of sovereignty is not detailed, sovereignty is explained in article 25 as residing \"in the people\". There is no doubt that this way of thinking deeply influenced the revolutionary government during the Terror.\n\nFinally, article 35 states \"When the government violates the rights of the people, insurrection is for the people and for each portion of the people the most sacred of rights and the most indispensable of duties.\"\nThough this declaration was never enforced (like the Constitution of 1793), history has shown that the French people have followed this advice with many successful (1830, 1848) and unsuccessful (1832, 1870) revolutions throughout the 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "7194871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7194871", "title": "Discrimination against atheists", "text": "Discrimination against atheists\n\nDiscrimination against atheists, both at present and historically, includes persecution of and discrimination against people identified as atheists, whether by themselves or by others. Discrimination against atheists may also comprise negative attitudes, prejudice, hostility, hatred, fear, or intolerance towards atheists and atheism. Because atheism can be defined in various ways, those discriminated against or persecuted on the grounds of being atheists might not have been considered atheists in a different time or place. 13 Muslim countries officially punish atheism or apostasy by death, while \"the overwhelming majority\" of the 192 United Nation member countries \"at best discriminate against citizens who have no belief in a god and at worst can jail them for offences dubbed blasphemy\".\n\nIn some Muslim-majority countries, atheists face persecution and severe penalties such as the withdrawal of legal status or, in the case of apostasy, capital punishment.\n\nSometimes such discrimination is called atheophobia, atheistophobia, anti-atheist discrimination, or anti-atheist sentiment.\n\nScholars have argued that some small underdeveloped glimpses of atheism existed in the ancient world, though not in a modern sense because people had not developed a language for nonbelief; theistic beliefs in 5th Century BC Greece were not very active in public life the way they are in the modern world, and polytheism made it difficult to centralize the beliefs of any region or culture. Lucien Febvre has referred to the \"unthinkability\" of atheism in its strongest sense before the sixteenth century, because of the \"deep religiosity\" of that era. Karen Armstrong has concurred, writing \"from birth and baptism to death and burial in the churchyard, religion dominated the life of every single man and woman. Every activity of the day, which was punctuated by church bells summoning the faithful to prayer, was saturated with religious beliefs and institutions: they dominated professional and public life—even the guilds and the universities were religious organizations. ... Even if an exceptional man could have achieved the objectivity necessary to question the nature of religion and the existence of God, he would have found no support in either the philosophy or the science of his time.\" As governmental authority rested on the notion of divine right, it was threatened by those who denied the existence of the local god. Those labeled as atheist, including early Christians and Muslims, were as a result targeted for legal persecution.\n\nDuring the early modern period, the term \"atheist\" was used as an insult and applied to a broad range of people, including those who held opposing theological beliefs, as well as those who had committed suicide, immoral or self-indulgent people, and even opponents of the belief in witchcraft. Atheistic beliefs were seen as threatening to order and society by philosophers such as Thomas Aquinas. Lawyer and scholar Thomas More said that religious tolerance should be extended to all except those who did not believe in a deity or the immortality of the soul. John Locke, a founder of modern notions of religious liberty, argued that atheists (as well as Catholics and Muslims) should not be granted full citizenship rights.\n\nDuring the Inquisition, several of those accused of atheism or blasphemy, or both, were tortured or executed. These included the priest Giulio Cesare Vanini who was strangled and burned in 1619 and the Polish nobleman Kazimierz Łyszczyński who was executed in Warsaw, as well as Etienne Dolet, a Frenchman executed in 1546. Though heralded as atheist martyrs during the nineteenth century, recent scholars hold that the beliefs espoused by Dolet and Vanini are not atheistic in modern terms.\n\nDuring the nineteenth century, British atheists, though few in number, were subject to discriminatory practices. The poet Percy Bysshe Shelley was expelled from the University of Oxford and denied custody of his two children after publishing a pamphlet titled \"The Necessity of Atheism\". Those unwilling to swear Christian oaths during judicial proceedings were unable to give evidence in court to obtain justice until this requirement was repealed by Acts passed in 1869 and 1870.\n\nAtheist Charles Bradlaugh was elected as a Member of the British Parliament in 1880. He was denied the right to affirm rather than swear his oath of office, and was then denied the ability to swear the oath as other Members objected that he had himself said it would be meaningless. Bradlaugh was re-elected three times before he was finally able to take his seat in 1886 when the Speaker of the House permitted him to take the oath.\n\nIn Germany during the Nazi era, a 1933 decree stated that \"No National Socialist may suffer detriment... on the ground that he does not make any religious profession at all\". However, the regime strongly opposed \"godless communism\", and all of Germany's atheist and largely left-wing freethought organizations such as the German Freethinkers League (500,000 members) were banned the same year; some right-wing groups were tolerated by the Nazis until the mid-1930s. In a speech made later in 1933, Hitler claimed to have \"stamped out\" the atheistic movement.\n\nDuring the negotiations leading up to the Nazi-Vatican Concordat of April 26, 1933 Hitler stated that \"Secular schools can never be tolerated\" because of their irreligious tendencies. Hitler routinely disregarded this undertaking, and the Reich concordat as a whole and by 1939, all Catholic denominational schools had been disbanded or converted to public facilities.\n\nBy 1939, 94.5% of Germans still called themselves Protestant or Catholic, while 3.5% were so-called \"Gottgläubigen\" (lit. \"believers in God\") and 1.5% were without faith. According to historian Richard J. Evans, those members of the affiliation \"gottgläubig\" \"were convinced Nazis who had left their Church at the behest of the Party, which had been trying since the mid-1930s to reduce the influence of Christianity in society\". Heinrich Himmler was a strong promoter of the \"gottgläubig\" movement and didn't allow atheists into the SS, arguing that their \"refusal to acknowledge higher powers\" would be a \"potential source of indiscipline\". Himmler announced to the SS: \"We believe in a God Almighty who stands above us; he has created the earth, the Fatherland, and the Volk, and he has sent us the Führer. Any human being who does not believe in God should be considered arrogant, megalomaniacal, and stupid and thus not suited for the SS.\"\n\nArticle 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is designed to protect the right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion. In 1993, the UN's human rights committee declared that article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights \"protects theistic, non-theistic and atheistic beliefs, as well as the right not to profess any religion or belief\". The committee further stated that \"the freedom to have or to adopt a religion or belief necessarily entails the freedom to choose a religion or belief, including the right to replace one's current religion or belief with another or to adopt atheistic views\". Signatories to the convention are barred from \"the use of threat of physical force or penal sanctions to compel believers or non-believers\" to recant their beliefs or convert. Despite this, atheists still are persecuted in some parts of the world.\n\nModern theories of constitutional democracy assume that citizens are intellectually and spiritually autonomous and that governments should leave matters of religious belief to individuals and not coerce religious beliefs using sanctions or benefits. The constitutions, human rights conventions and the religious liberty jurisprudence of most constitutional democracies provide legal protection of atheists and agnostics. In addition, freedom of expression provisions and legislation separating church from state also serve to protect the rights of atheists. As a result, open legal discrimination against atheists is not common in most Western countries. However, prejudice against atheists does exist in Western countries. A University of British Columbia study conducted in the United States found that believers distrusted atheists as much they did rapists. The study also showed that atheists had lower employment prospects.\n\nIn most of Europe, atheists are elected to office at high levels in many governments without controversy. Some atheist organizations in Europe have expressed concerns regarding issues of separation of church and state, such as administrative fees for leaving the Church charged in Germany, and sermons being organized by the Swedish parliament. Ireland requires religious training from Christian colleges in order to work as a teacher in government-funded schools.\nIn the UK one-third of state-funded schools are faith-based. However, there are no restrictions on atheists holding public office – the former Deputy Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Nick Clegg, is an atheist. According to a 2012 poll, 25% of the Turks in Germany believe atheists are inferior human beings. Portugal has elected two presidents, Mário Soares, who was also elected Prime-Minister, and Jorge Sampaio, who have openly expressed their irreligion, as well as two agnostic Prime-Ministers, José Sócrates and António Costa. On the contrary, in Greece, the right-wing New Democracy government stated that \"the Greek people have a right to know whether Mr. Tsipras is an atheist\", citing their political opponent's irreligiosity as a reason he should not be elected, even though they granted that \"it is his right\". In the Elder Pastitsios case, a 27-year-old was sentenced to imprisonment for satirizing a popular apocalyptically-minded Greek Orthodox monk, while several metropolitans of the Greek Orthodox Church (which is not separated from the state) have also urged their flock \"not to vote unbelievers into office\", even going so far as to warn Greek Orthodox laymen that they would be \"sinning if they voted atheists into public office\".\n\nA 2009 survey showed that atheists were the most hated demographic group in Brazil, among several other minorities polled, being almost on par with drug addicts. According to the research, 17% of the interviewees stated they felt either hatred or repulsion for atheists, while 25% felt antipathy and 29% were indifferent.\n\nCanadian secular humanist groups have worked to end the recitation of prayers during government proceedings, viewing them as discriminatory. Scouts Canada states that while a belief in God or affiliation with organized religion is not a requirement to join, members must have \"a basic spiritual belief\" and one of the core values is \"Duty to God: Defined as, The responsibility to adhere to spiritual principles, and thus to the religion that expresses them, and to accept the duties therefrom.\"\n\nDiscrimination against atheists in the United States occurs in legal, personal, social, and professional contexts. Many American atheists compare their situation to the discrimination faced by ethnic minorities, LGBT communities, and women. \"Americans still feel it's acceptable to discriminate against atheists in ways considered beyond the pale for other groups,\" asserted Fred Edwords of the American Humanist Association. The degree of discrimination, persecution, and social stigma atheists face in the United States, compared to other persecuted groups in the United States has been the subject of study and a matter of debate.\n\nIn the United States, seven state constitutions include religious tests that would effectively prevent atheists from holding public office, and in some cases being a juror/witness, though these have not generally been enforced since the early twentieth century. The U.S. Constitution permits an affirmation in place of an oath to allow atheists to give testimony in court or to hold public office. However, a United States Supreme Court case reaffirmed that the United States Constitution prohibits States and the Federal Government from requiring any kind of religious test for public office, in the specific case, as a notary public. This decision is generally understood to also apply to witness oaths.\n\nSeveral American atheists have used court challenges to address discrimination against atheists. Michael Newdow challenged inclusion of the phrase \"under God\" in the United States Pledge of Allegiance on behalf of his daughter, claiming that the phrase amounted to government endorsement of discrimination against atheists. He won the case at an initial stage, but the Supreme Court dismissed his claim, ruling that Newdow did not have standing to bring his case, thus disposing of the case without ruling on the constitutionality of the pledge. Respondents to a survey were less likely to support a kidney transplant for hypothetical atheists and agnostics needing it, than for Christian patients with similar medical needs. As the Boy Scouts of America does not allow atheists as members, atheist families and the ACLU from the 1990s onwards have launched a series of court cases arguing discrimination against atheists. In response to ACLU lawsuits, the Pentagon in 2004 ended sponsorship of Scouting units, and in 2005 the BSA agreed to transfer all Scouting units out of government entities such as public schools.\n\nDespite polling showing that nonbelievers make up an increasingly large part of the population there is only one public atheist in all of the state legislatures across the nation. Few politicians have been willing to acknowledge their lack of belief in supreme beings, since such revelations have been considered \"political suicide\". On September 20, 2007, Pete Stark became the first nontheist United States congressman to openly acknowledge a lack of belief, joining the millions of Americans whom have long kept their views secret for fear of discrimination in their communities. There is one state legislator, Ernie Chambers, currently holding a seat in the Nebraska State Legislature. Cecil Bothwell, who has publicly stated he doesn't believe in gods and that it's \"certainly not relevant to public office\", was elected on November 3, 2009, to the Asheville, North Carolina city council after he won the third highest number of votes in the city election. Following the election, political opponents of Bothwell threatened to challenge his election on the grounds that the North Carolina Constitution does not allow for atheists to hold public office in the state. However, that provision, dating back to 1868, is unenforceable and invalid because the United States Constitution prevents religious tests for public office. A 2015 Gallup survey found that 40% of Americans would not vote an atheist for president, and in polls prior to 2015, that number had reached about 50%. A 2014 study by the University of Minnesota found that 42% of respondents characterized atheists as a group that did \"not at all agree with my vision of American society\", and that 44% would not want their child to marry an atheist. The negative attitudes towards atheists were higher than negative attitudes towards African-Americans and homosexuals but lower than the negative attitudes towards Muslims. Many in the U.S. associate atheism with immorality, including criminal behaviour, extreme materialism, communism and elitism. The studies also showed that rejection of atheists was related to the respondent's lack of exposure to diversity, education and political orientations. Atheists and atheist organizations have alleged discrimination against atheists in the military, and recently, with the development of the Army's Comprehensive Soldier Fitness program, atheists have alleged institutionalized discrimination. In several child custody court rulings, atheist parents have been discriminated against, either directly or indirectly. As child custody laws in the United States are often based on the subjective opinion of family court judges, atheism has frequently been used to deny custody to non-religious parents on the basis that a parent's lack of faith displays a lack of morality required to raise a child.\n\nProminent atheists and atheist groups have said that discrimination against atheists is illustrated by a statement reportedly made by George H. W. Bush during a public press conference just after announcing his candidacy for the presidency in 1987. When asked by journalist Robert Sherman about the equal citizenship and patriotism of American atheists, Sherman reported that Bush answered, \"No, I don't know that atheists should be regarded as citizens, nor should they be regarded as patriotic. This is one nation under God.\" Sherman did not tape the exchange and no other newspaper ran a story on it at the time.\n\nGeorge H. W. Bush's son, George W. Bush, responded to a question about the role of faith in his presidency during a November 3, 2004 press conference, \"I will be your president regardless of your faith. And I don't expect you to agree with me, necessarily, on religion. As a matter of fact, no president should ever try to impose religion on our society. The great – the great tradition of America is one where people can worship the – the way they want to worship. And if they choose not to worship, they're just as patriotic as your neighbor.\"\nOn December 16, 2016, President Barack Obama signed H.R. 1150, an amendment to the Frank R. Wolf International Religious Freedom Act. It includes protections for \"non-theistic beliefs, as well as the right not to profess or practice any religion at all.\"\n\n\"Torcaso v. Watkins\", was a United States Supreme Court case in which the court reaffirmed that the United States Constitution prohibits States and the Federal Government from requiring any kind of religious test for public office; the specific case with Torcaso was regarding his being an atheist and his work as a notary public.\n\nThe constitutions of seven \"Bible Belt\" U.S. states ban atheists from holding public office. However, these laws are unenforceable due to conflicting with the First Amendment and Article VI of the United States Constitution:\n\n\nAn eighth state constitution affords special protection to theists.\n\nAtheists, and those accused of defection from the official religion, may be subject to discrimination and persecution in many Muslim-majority countries. According to the International Humanist and Ethical Union, compared to other nations, \"unbelievers... in Islamic countries face the most severe – sometimes brutal – treatment\". Atheists and religious skeptics can be executed in at least fourteen nations: Afghanistan, Iran, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Nigeria, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Libya, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.\n\nAccording to popular interpretations of Islam, Muslims are not free to change religion or become an atheist: denying Islam and thus becoming an apostate is traditionally punished by death for men and by life imprisonment for women. The death penalty for apostasy is apparent in a range of Islamic states including: Iran, Egypt, Pakistan, Somalia, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Yemen and Saudi Arabia. Although there have been no recently reported executions in Saudi Arabia, a judge in Saudi Arabia has recently recommended that imprisoned blogger Raif Badawi go before a high court on a charge of apostasy, which would carry the death penalty upon conviction. While a death sentence is rare, it is common for atheists to be charged with blasphemy or inciting hatred. New \"Arab Spring\" regimes in Tunisia and Egypt have jailed several outspoken atheists.\n\nSince an apostate can be considered a Muslim whose beliefs cast doubt on the Divine, and/or Qur'an, claims of atheism and apostasy have been made against Muslim scholars and political opponents throughout history. Both fundamentalists and moderates agree that \"blasphemers will not be forgiven\" although they disagree on the severity of an appropriate punishment. In northwestern Syria in 2013 during the Syrian Civil War, jihadists beheaded and defaced a sculpture of Al-Maʿarri (973–1058 CE), one of several outspoken Arab and Persian atheist intellectuals who lived and taught during the Islamic Golden Age.\n\nJordan requires atheists to associate themselves with a recognized religion for official identification purposes.\nIn Egypt, intellectuals suspected of holding atheistic beliefs have been prosecuted by judicial and religious authorities. Novelist Alaa Hamad was convicted of publishing a book that contained atheistic ideas and apostasy that were considered to threaten national unity and social peace.\n\nThe study of Islam is a requirement in public and private schools for every Algerian child, irrespective of their religion.\n\nAtheist or agnostic men are prohibited from marrying Muslim women (Algerian Family Code I.II.31). A marriage is legally nullified by the apostasy of the husband (presumably from Islam, although this is not specified; Family Code I.III.33).\nAtheists and agnostics cannot inherit (Family Code III.I.138).\n\nSeveral Bangladeshi atheists have been assassinated, and a \"hit list\" exists issued by the Bangladeshi Islamic extremist organization, the \"Ansarullah Bangla Team\". Activist atheist bloggers are leaving Bangladesh under threat of assassination.\n\nAtheists in Indonesia experience official discrimination in the context of registration of births and marriages, and the issuance of identity cards. In 2012, Indonesian atheist Alexander Aan was beaten by a mob, lost his job as a civil servant and was sentenced to two and a half years in jail for expressing his views online.\n\nJess Melvin argues that atheists were victims of genocide under the legal definition during the 1965-66 Anti-PKI extermination campaign (PKI were the Communist Party of Indonesia) as the Indonesian army proscribed the destruction of \"atheist\" and \"unbelievers\" collectively for their association with communism, and according to Matthew Lippmann and David Nersessian atheists are covered as a protected group in the genocide convention under \"religious group.\"\n\nSince atheism is not a belief or religion, non-believers are not given legal status in Iran. Declaration of faith in Islam, Christianity, Judaism or Zoroastrianism is required to avail of certain rights such as applying for entrance to university, or becoming a lawyer, with the position of judge reserved for Muslims only. The Penal Code is also based upon the religious affiliation of the victim and perpetrator, with the punishment oftentimes more severe on non-Muslims. Numerous writers, thinkers and philanthropists have been accused of apostasy and sentenced to death for questioning the prevailing interpretation of Islam in Iran.\nThe Iranian Atheists Association was established in 2013 to form a platform for Iranian atheists to start debates and to question the current Islamic regime's attitude towards atheists, apostasy, and human rights.\n\nAtheism is prohibited in Libya and can come with a death penalty, if one is charged as an atheist.\n\nIn June 2013, Libya’s General National Council assembly (GNC) voted to make Islamic Sharia law the base for all legislation and for all state institutions, a decision have an impact in banking, criminal and financial law.\nIn February 2016, Libya’s General National Council assembly (GNC) released adecree No.20 Changing on provisions of the Libyan Penal Code.\n\nAtheism is prohibited in Saudi Arabia and can come with a death penalty, if one is charged as an atheist.\n\nIn March 2014, the Saudi interior ministry issued a royal decree branding all atheists as terrorists, which defines terrorism as \"calling for atheist thought in any form, or calling into question the fundamentals of the Islamic religion on which this country is based\".\n\nAlthough officially a secular state, the vast majority of Turks are Muslim, and the state grants some special privileges to Muslims and to Islam in the media and private religious institutions. Compulsory religious instruction in Turkish schools is also considered discriminatory towards atheists, who may not want their children to receive any religious education. Atheists and agnostics are also not counted in the official census of the country.\n\nSanal Edamaruku, atheist and founder-president of Rationalist International, had to flee India when Catholic Secular Forum pressed charges against him under Section 295(A) of the Indian Penal Code, which penalises outraging the religious sentiments of any citizen, in 2012. He is currently in self exile in Finland to evade arrest and indefinite jail time.\n\nRegular Freemasonry insists among other things that a volume of scripture is open in a working lodge, that every member profess belief in a Supreme Being, and that the discussion of religion is banned. Continental Freemasonry is now the general term for the \"liberal\" jurisdictions which have removed some, or all, of these restrictions.\n\n\"Duty to God\" is a principle of Scouting worldwide, though it is applied differently among countries. The Boy Scouts of America (BSA) takes a strong position, excluding atheists and agnostics, while Girl Scouts of the USA takes a more neutral position. The United Kingdom Scout Association has recently published alternative promises for people of different or no religion, specifying \"Atheists, Humanists and people of no specific religion\", who make a promise to uphold Scouting values rather than a duty to God. Scouts Canada defines Duty to God broadly in terms of \"adherence to spiritual principles\" and does not require members to be part of an organized religion, but does require that they have some form of \"personal spirituality\". In other countries, especially in Europe, some Scouting organizations may be secularist or religiously neutral (such as Eclaireuses et Eclaireurs de France, Corpo Nazionale Giovani Esploratori ed Esploratrici Italiani and the \"Baden-Powell Service Association\" in the United States).\n\n"}
{"id": "27387002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27387002", "title": "Dispute mechanism", "text": "Dispute mechanism\n\nA dispute mechanism is a structured process that addresses disputes or grievances that arise between two or more parties engaged in business, legal, or societal relationships. Dispute mechanisms are used in dispute resolution, and may incorporate conciliation, conflict resolution, mediation, and negotiation.\n\nOtherwise known as grievance mechanisms, dispute mechanisms are typical non-judicial in nature, meaning that they are not resolved within the court of law. According to research produced by the non-judicial grievance mechanism task force of John Ruggie, Special Representative of Business and Human Rights to the United Nations, those who design and oversee non-judicial mechanisms should acknowledge core human rights processes defined by \"all core UN human rights treaties.”\n\nDispute mechanisms comprise a way for socially responsible businesses to meet requirements of corporate responsibility-related agreements or pacts, reduce risk while capacity-building or developing internationally, and assist larger processes that create positive social change.\n\nDispute mechanisms are an increasingly effective tool for establishing communication channels between businesses and communities. When successful, they offer a trusted way for local peoples or communities to voice and resolve concerns related to development projects, while providing companies with transparent, effective ways to address community concerns. According to a publication by the Compliance Advisor/Ombudsman of the World Bank Group, \"locally-based grievance resolution mechanism(s) provide a promising avenue by offering a reliable structure and set of approaches where local people and the company can find effective solutions together.\" Generally, it is agreed that a well-functioning grievance mechanism should:\n\n\nAccording to the Business and Human Rights SRSG, such mechanisms must at a minimum be:\n\n\nWell-designed grievance mechanisms have multiple and sometimes divergent points of application, but are typically used by monitoring, auditing, project oversight, supply chain management, and stakeholder engagement. Grievance mechanisms can deal with most kinds of grievances (bar those raising criminal liability), including – but by no means limited to – those that reflect substantive human/labour rights concerns. As such, rights-compatible mechanisms must work to integrate human rights norms and standards into their processes and are based on principles of non-discrimination, equity, accountability, empowerment and participation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1110853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1110853", "title": "Dyeus", "text": "Dyeus\n\nDyēus or Dyēus Phter (Proto-Indo-European: *', also *Dyḗus Phtḗr or Dyēus Pətḗr\"', alternatively spelled \"dyēws\") is believed to have been the chief deity in the religious traditions of the prehistoric Proto-Indo-European societies. Part of a larger pantheon, he was the god of the daylit sky, and his position may have mirrored the position of the patriarch or monarch in society.\n\nThis deity is not directly attested; rather, scholars have reconstructed this deity from the languages and cultures of later Indo-European peoples such as the Greeks, Latins, and Indo-Aryans. According to this scholarly reconstruction, Dyeus was known as , literally \"sky father\" or \"shining father\", as reflected in Latin Iūpiter, \"Diēspiter\", possibly Dis Pater and \"deus pater\", Greek \"Zeu Pater\", Vedic \"\". As the pantheons of the individual mythologies related to the Proto-Indo-European religion evolved, attributes of Dyeus seem to have been redistributed to other deities. In Greek and Roman mythology, Dyeus remained the chief god; however, in Vedic mythology, the etymological continuant of Dyeus became a very abstract god, and his original attributes and dominance over other gods appear to have been transferred to gods such as Agni or Indra.\n\n\nRooted in the related but distinct Indo-European word *\"deiwos\" is the Latin word for deity, \"deus\". The Latin word is also continued in English \"divine\", \"deity\", and the original Germanic word remains visible in \"Tuesday\" (\"Day of Tīwaz\") and Old Norse \"tívar\", which may be continued in the toponym \"Tiveden\" (\"Wood of the Gods\", or of Týr).\n\nThe following names derive from the related \"*deiwos\":\n\n\nEstonian \"Tharapita\" bears similarity to \"Dyaus Pita\" in name, although it has been interpreted as being related to the god Thor.\n\nAlthough some of the more iconic reflexes of Dyeus are storm deities, such as Zeus and Jupiter, this is thought to be a late development exclusive to Mediterranean traditions, probably derived from syncretism with Canaanite deities and Perkwunos. The deity's original domain was over the daylight sky, and indeed reflexes emphasise this connection to light: Istanu (\"Tiyaz\") is a solar deity (though this name may actually refer to a female sun goddess), Helios is often referred to as the \"eye of Zeus\", in Romanian paganism the Sun is similarly called \"God's eye\" and in Indo-Iranian tradition Surya/Hvare-khshaeta is similarly associated with Ahura Mazda. Even in Roman tradition, Jupiter often is only associated with diurnal lightning at most, while Summanus is a deity responsible for nocturnal lightning or storms as a whole.\n\nDyēus's name also likely means \"the daytime sky\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2854616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2854616", "title": "Electronic dictionary", "text": "Electronic dictionary\n\nAn electronic dictionary is a dictionary whose data exists in digital form and can be accessed through a number of different media. Electronic dictionaries can be found in several forms, including software installed on tablet or desktop computers, mobile apps, web applications, and as a built-in function of E-readers. They may be free or require payment.\n\nMost of the early electronic dictionaries were, in effect, print dictionaries made available in digital form: the content was identical, but the electronic editions provided users with more powerful search functions. But soon the opportunities offered by digital media began to be exploited. Two obvious advantages are that limitations of space (and the need to optimize its use) become less pressing, so additional content can be provided; and the possibility arises of including multimedia content, such as audio pronunciations and video clips.\n\nElectronic dictionary databases, especially those included with software dictionaries are often extensive and can contain up to 500,000 headwords and definitions, verb conjugation tables, and a grammar reference section. Bilingual electronic dictionaries and monolingual dictionaries of inflected languages often include an interactive verb conjugator, and are capable of word stemming and lemmatization.\n\nPublishers and developers of electronic dictionaries may offer native content from their own lexicographers, licensed data from print publications, or both, as in the case of Babylon offering premium content from Merriam Webster, and Ultralingua offering additional premium content from Collins, Masson, and Simon & Schuster, and Paragon Software offering original content from Duden, Britannica, Harrap, Merriam-Webster and Oxford.\n\nAs well as Latin script, electronic dictionaries are also available in logographic and right-to-left scripts, including Arabic, Persian, Chinese, Devanagari, Greek, Hebrew, Japanese, Korean, Cyrillic, and Thai.\n\nDictionary software generally far exceeds the scope of the hand held dictionaries. Many publishers of traditional printed dictionaries such as Langenscheidt, Collins-Reverso, OED – Oxford English Dictionary, Duden, American Heritage, and Hachette, offer their resources for use on desktop and laptop computers. These programs can either be downloaded or purchased on CD-ROM and installed. Other dictionary software is available from specialised electronic dictionary publishers such as iFinger, Abbyy Lingvo, Collins-Ultralingua, Mobile Systems and Paragon Software. Some electronic dictionaries provide an online discussion forum moderated by the software developers and lexicographers\n\nThe well-known brands, such as \"Instant-Dict\" (快譯通), \"Besta\" (無敵), and \"Golden Global View\" (文曲星), includes basic functions like dictionaries, TTS, calculator, calendar etc. They also have functions other than just dictionary, for example, MP3 player, Video player, web browser (WiFi), and simple games. Some also support Adobe Flash (SWF files). Most of them usually will have a touch screen, Qwerty keyboard, a speaker, SD card slot, and sometimes microphone and camera also, for example, MD8500 from Instant-Dict. Their functions can even be comparable to smartphones, with the exception of phone capabilities since they do not have radios to make or receive make phone calls.\n\n\nHandheld electronic dictionaries, also known as \"pocket electronic dictionaries\" or PEDs, resemble miniature clamshell laptop computers, complete with full keyboards and LCD screens. Because they are intended to be fully portable, the dictionaries are battery-powered and made with durable casing material. Although produced all over the world, handheld dictionaries are especially popular in Japan, Korea, Taiwan, China, and neighbouring countries, where they are the dictionary of choice for many users learning English as a second language.\nSome of the features of hand held dictionaries include stroke order animations, voice output, handwriting recognition for Kanji and Kana, language-learning programs, a calculator, PDA-like organizer functions, encyclopedias, time zone and currency converters, and crossword puzzle solvers. Dictionaries that contain data for several languages may have a \"jump\" or \"skip-search\" feature that allows users to move between the dictionaries when looking up words, and a reverse translation action that allows further look-ups of words displayed in the results.\nMany manufacturers produce hand held dictionaries that use licensed dictionary content that use a database such as the Merriam Webster Dictionary and Thesaurus while others may use a proprietary database from their own lexicographers. Many devices can be expanded for several languages with the purchase of additional memory cards. Manufacturers include AlfaLink, Atree, Besta, Casio, Canon, Instant Dict, Ectaco, Franklin, Iriver, Lingo, Maliang Cyber Technology, Compagnia Lingua Ltd., Nurian, Seiko, and Sharp.\n\nThe market size as of 2014 was about 24.2 billion yen(= $227.1 million as of May/2016), although the market has been shrinking gradually from 2007 because of smartphones and tablet computers. The targeted customer base has been being shifted from business users to students. Sony and Seiko have withdrawn from the market. As of 2016, Casio had 59.3% of the market share, followed by Sharp with 21.5% and Canon with 19.2%.\n\nAt 2016, Seiko announced that their mobile device apps on iPad iOS has been launched.\n\nDictionaries of all types are available as apps for smartphones and for tablet computers such as Apple's iPad, the BlackBerry PlayBook and the Motorola Xoom. The needs of translators and language learners are especially well catered for, with apps for bilingual dictionaries for numerous language pairs, and for most of the well-known monolingual learner's dictionaries such as the \"Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English\" and the \"Macmillan English Dictionary\".\n\nThere are several types of online dictionary, including:\nSome online dictionaries are regularly updated, keeping abreast of language change. Many have additional content, such as blogs and features on new words. Some are collaborative projects, most notably Wiktionary and the Collins Online Dictionary. And some, like the Urban Dictionary, consist of entries (sometimes self-contradictory) supplied by users.\nMany dictionaries for special purposes, especially for professional and trade terminology, and regional dialects and language variations, are published on the websites of organizations and individual authors. Although they may often be presented in list form without a search function, because of the way in which the information is stored and transmitted, they are nevertheless electronic dictionaries.\n\nThere are differences in quality of hardware (hand held devices), software (presentation and performance), and dictionary content. Some hand helds are more robustly constructed than others, and the keyboards or touch screen input systems should be physically compared before purchase. The information on the GUI of computer based dictionary software ranges from complex and cluttered, to clear and easy-to-use with user definable preferences including font size and colour.\n\nA major consideration is the quality of the lexical database. Dictionaries intended for collegiate and professional use generally include most or all of the lexical information to be expected in a quality printed dictionary. The content of electronic dictionaries developed in association with leading publishers of printed dictionaries is more reliable that those aimed at the traveler or casual user, while bilingual dictionaries that have not been authored by teams of native speaker lexicographers for each language, will not be suitable for academic work. \nSome developers opt to have their products evaluated by an independent academic body such as the CALICO.\n\nAnother major consideration is that the devices themselves and the dictionaries in them are generally designed for a particular market. As an example, almost all handheld Japanese-English electronic dictionaries are designed for people with native fluency in Japanese who are learning and using English; thus, Japanese words do not generally include furigana pronunciation glosses, since it is assumed that the reader is literate in Japanese (headwords of entries do have pronunciation, however). Further, the primary manner to look up words is by pronunciation, which makes looking up a word with unknown pronunciation difficult (for example, one would need to know that 網羅 \"comprehensive\" is pronounced もうら, \"moura\" to look it up directly). However, higher end Japanese dictionaries include character recognition, so users (native speakers of Japanese or not) can look up words by writing the kanji.\n\nSimilar limitations exist in most two or multi-language dictionaries and can be especially crippling when the languages are not written in the same script or alphabet; it's important to find a dictionary optimized for the user's native language.\n\nSeveral developers of the systems that drive electronic dictionary software offer API and SDK – Software Development Kit tools for adding various language-based (dictionary, translation, definitions, synonyms, and spell checking and grammar correction) functions to programs, and web services such as the AJAX API used by Google. These applications manipulate language in various ways, providing dictionary/translation features, and sophisticated solutions for semantic search. They are often available as a C++ API, an XML-RPC server, a .NET API, or as a Python API for many operating systems (Mac, Windows, Linux, etc.) and development environments, and can also be used for indexing other kinds of data.\n\n"}
{"id": "21756313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21756313", "title": "Encarta", "text": "Encarta\n\nMicrosoft Encarta was a digital multimedia encyclopedia published by Microsoft Corporation from 1993 to 2009. Originally sold on CD-ROM or DVD, it was also later available on the World Wide Web via an annual subscription – although later many articles could also be viewed free online with advertisements. By 2008, the complete English version, \"Encarta Premium\", consisted of more than 62,000 articles, numerous photos and illustrations, music clips, videos, interactive content, timelines, maps, atlases and homework tools.\n\nMicrosoft published similar encyclopedias under the \"Encarta\" trademark in various languages, including German, French, Spanish, Dutch, Italian, Portuguese and Japanese. Localized versions contained contents licensed from national sources and more or less content than the full English version. For example, the Dutch version had content from the Dutch \"Winkler Prins\" encyclopedia.\n\nIn March 2009, Microsoft announced it was discontinuing both the \"Encarta\" disc and online versions. The MSN \"Encarta\" site was closed on October 31, 2009 in all countries except Japan, where it was closed on December 31, 2009. Microsoft continued to operate the \"Encarta\" online dictionary until 2011.\n\nAfter the successes of \"Compton's Multimedia Encyclopedia\" (1989) and \"The New Grolier Multimedia Encyclopedia\" (1992),\nMicrosoft initiated \"Encarta\", under the internal codename \"Gandalf\", by purchasing non-exclusive rights to the \"Funk & Wagnalls Encyclopedia\", incorporating it into its first edition in 1993. (Funk & Wagnalls continued to publish revised editions for several years independently of Encarta, but then ceased printing in the late 1990s.)\n\nThe name \"Encarta\" was created for Microsoft by an advertising agency and launched in 1993 as a $395 product, although it soon dropped to $99, and was often bundled into the price of a new computer purchase.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Microsoft added content from \"Collier's Encyclopedia\" and \"New Merit Scholar's Encyclopedia\" from Macmillan into \"Encarta\" after purchasing them. Thus the final Microsoft \"Encarta\" can be considered the successor of the \"Funk and Wagnalls\", \"Collier\", and \"New Merit Scholar\" encyclopedias. None of these formerly successful encyclopedias remained in print for long after being merged into \"Encarta\".\n\nMicrosoft introduced several regional versions of \"Encarta\" translated into languages other than English. For example, the Brazilian Portuguese version was introduced in 1999 and suspended in 2002. The Spanish version was somewhat smaller than the English one, at 42,000 articles.\n\nIn 2000, the full \"Encarta\" content became available on the World Wide Web to subscribers, with a subset available for free to anyone.\n\nIn July 2006, Websters Multimedia, a Bellevue, Washington subsidiary of London-based Websters International Publishers, took over maintenance of \"Encarta\" from Microsoft. The last version was \"Encarta Premium\" 2009, released in August 2008.\nMicrosoft announced in April 2009 that it would cease to sell Microsoft Student and all editions of \"Encarta Premium\" software products worldwide by June 2009, citing changes in the way people seek information, and in the traditional encyclopedia and reference material market, as the key reasons behind the termination. Updates for \"Encarta\" were offered until October 2009. Additionally, MSN \"Encarta\" web sites were discontinued around October 31, 2009, with the exception of \"Encarta Japan\" which was discontinued on December 31, 2009. Existing MSN \"Encarta Premium\" (part of MSN Premium) subscribers were refunded.\n\nThe demise of \"Encarta\" was widely attributed to competition from the free and user-generated Wikipedia, which, from small beginnings in 2001, grew to be larger than \"Encarta\", thanks to popularization by web search services like Google. By the time of the announcement of its closure in April 2009, \"Encarta\" had about 62,000 articles, most behind a paywall, while the English Wikipedia had over 2.8 million articles in open access. By the time of \"Encarta\"s closure in December 2009, the English Wikipedia had over 3.1 million articles.\n\n\"Encarta\"s standard edition included approximately 50,000 articles, with additional images, videos and sounds. The premium editions contained over 62,000 articles and other multimedia content, such as 25,000 pictures and illustrations, over 300 videos and animations, and an interactive atlas with 1.8 million locations. Its articles were integrated with multimedia content and could include links to websites selected by its editors. \"Encarta\"s articles in general were less lengthy and more summarized than the printed version of \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" or the online Wikipedia. Like most multimedia encyclopedias, \"Encarta\"s articles tended to provide an overview of the subject rather than an exhaustive coverage and can only be viewed one at a time.\n\nA sidebar could display alternative views, essays, journals or original materials relevant to the topic. For example, when reading about computers, it featured annals since 1967 of the computer industry. \"Encarta\" also supported closed captioning for the hearing impaired. A separate program, called \"Encarta Research Organizer\" was included in early versions for gathering and organizing information and constructing a Word document-based report. Later versions included \"Encarta Researcher\", a browser plugin to organize information from \"Encarta\" articles and web pages into research projects. Content copied from \"Encarta\" was appended with a copyright boilerplate message after the selection. The user interface allowed for viewing content with only images, videos, sounds, animations, 360-degree views, virtual tours, charts and tables or only interactives.\n\nEncarta was originally available for sale on 1 to 5 CD-ROMs or a DVD. Some new PCs were shipped with an OEM edition of Encarta.\n\n\"Encarta 2000\" and later had \"Map Treks\", which were tours of geographic features and concepts. Microsoft had a separate product known as \"Encarta Africana\" which was an encyclopedia of black history and culture. It was integrated into the standard \"Encarta Reference\" suite starting with the 2001 version. \"Encarta 2002\" and onward feature \"3D Virtual Tours\" of ancient structures, for example the Acropolis; 2D panoramic images of world wonders or major cities; and a virtual flight feature which allows users to fly a virtual airplane over a coarsely generated artificial landscape area. Version \"2002\" also introduced the ability to install the entire encyclopedia locally to the hard disk drive to prevent frequent swapping of discs.\n\n\"Encarta 2003\" incorporated literature guides and book summaries, foreign language translation dictionaries, a \"Homework Center\" and \"Chart Maker\". \"Encarta\"s \"Visual Browser\", available since the 2004 version, presented a user with a list of related topics making them more discoverable. A collection of 32 Discovery Channel videos were also later added. \"Encarta 2005\" introduced another program called \"Encarta Kids\" aimed at children to make learning fun.\n\n\"Encarta\" also included a trivia game called \"MindMaze\" (accessible through Ctrl+Z) in which the player explores a castle by answering questions whose answers can be found in the encyclopedia's articles. There was also a \"Geography Quiz\" and several other games and quizzes, some quizzes also in \"Encarta Kids\".\n\nFor years, \"Encarta\" came in three primary software editions: Standard, Premium, and Reference Library (price and features in that order). Beginning with \"Encarta 2006\", however, when \"Websters Multimedia\" took over its maintenance, \"Encarta\" became a feature of Microsoft Student. Although it was possible to purchase only the \"Encarta\" encyclopedia separately, Microsoft Student bundles together \"Encarta Premium\" with Microsoft Math (a graphing-calculator program) and Learning Essentials, which provides templates for Microsoft Office. In addition, the Reference Library was discontinued, absorbed into a newer, more comprehensive Premium package. \"Encarta\"s user interface was shared with Microsoft Student, and was streamlined to reduce clutter with only a Search box which returned relevant results; however it became no longer possible to simply browse all the encyclopedia articles alphabetically.\n\nThe dynamic maps were generated with the same engine that powered Microsoft MapPoint software. The map was a virtual globe that one could freely rotate and magnify to any location down to major streets for big cities. The globe had multiple surfaces displaying political boundaries, physical landmarks, historical maps and statistical information. One could selectively display statistical values on the globe surface or in a tabular form, different sized cities, various geological or man-made features and reference lines in a map.\n\nThe maps contained hyperlinks to related articles (\"Map Trek\") and also supported a \"Dynamic Sensor\" that provides the latitude, longitude, place name, population and local time for any point on the globe. \"Encarta\" also generated a visible-light moon atlas with names of major craters and hyperlinks. However, it did not include a planetarium, but instead had a small interactive constellation-only map.\n\nIn addition to database generated maps, many other illustrative maps in \"Encarta\" (\"Historical Maps\") were drawn by artists. Some more advanced maps were interactive: for example, the large African map for Africana could display information such as political boundaries or the distribution of African flora.\n\nWhen \"Encarta\" was released as part of the \"Reference Suite\" in 1998 to 2000, Microsoft bundled \"Microsoft Bookshelf\" with the other programs (\"Encarta\" Encyclopedia 98 Deluxe Edition, \"Encarta Desk Atlas\", \"Encarta Virtual Globe 98\", \"Encarta World English Dictionary\" and \"Encarta Research Organizer\").\n\n\"Bookshelf\" was discontinued in 2000, and in later \"Encarta\" editions (\"Encarta Suite 2000\" and onward), \"Bookshelf\" was replaced with a dedicated \"Encarta Dictionary\", a superset of its printed version, \"The Encarta World English Dictionary\" (later \"Encarta Webster's Dictionary\").\n\nThere was some controversy over the decision, since the dictionary lacks the other books provided in \"Bookshelf\" which many found to be a useful reference, such as \"Columbia Dictionary of Quotations\" (replaced with a quotations section in \"Encarta\" that links to relevant articles and people) and an Internet Directory (although many of the sites listed in offline directories no longer exist).\n\nPrint versions of \"Encarta\" dictionaries has also been published, including:\n\nRobert McHenry, while Editor-in-Chief of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", criticized \"Encarta\" for differences in factual content between national versions of \"Encarta\", accusing Microsoft of \"pandering to local prejudices\" instead of presenting subjects objectively. An article written by Bill Gates addressed the nature of writing encyclopedias for different regions.\n\nBefore the emergence of the World Wide Web for information browsing, Microsoft recognized the importance of having an engine that supported a multimedia markup language, full text search, and extensibility using software objects. The hypertext display, hyperlinking and search software was created by a team of CD-ROM Division developers in the late 1980s who designed it as a generalized engine for uses as diverse as interactive help, document management systems and as ambitious as a multimedia encyclopedia.\n\n\"Encarta\" was able to use various Microsoft technologies because it was extensible with software components for displaying unique types of multimedia information. For example, a snap in map engine is adapted from its MapPoint software. The hypertext and search engine used by \"Encarta\" also powered Microsoft Bookshelf.\n\n\"Encarta\" used database technologies to generate much of its multimedia content. For example, \"Encarta\" generated each zoomable map from a global geographic information system database on demand.\n\nWhen a user used the copy and paste function of Microsoft Windows on \"Encarta\" on more than five words, \"Encarta\" automatically appended a copyright boilerplate message after the paste.\n\nEarly in 2005, Gary Alt announced that the online \"Encarta\" started to allow users to suggest changes to existing articles.\n\"Encarta\"s content was accessible using a conversational interface on Windows Live Messenger via the MSN Bot \"Encarta Instant Answers\". The bot could answer many encyclopedia related questions directly in the IM window. It used short sentences from the \"Encarta\" website, and sometimes displays full articles in the Internet Explorer-based browser on the right. It also could complete simple mathematical and advanced algebra problems. This service was also available in German, Spanish, French and Japanese.\n\nEach summer (in the Northern hemisphere) or winter (in the Southern hemisphere), Microsoft published a new version of \"Encarta\". However, despite the inclusion of news-related and some supplementary articles, \"Encarta\"s contents had not been changed substantially in its later years. Besides the yearly update, the installed offline copy could be updated over the Internet for a certain period for free depending on the edition. Some articles (usually about 2,000) were updated to reflect important changes or events. When the update period expired, an advertisement prompting to upgrade to the new version was displayed to the user occasionally.\n\nThe editors of \"PC Gamer US\" nominated \"Microsoft Encarta '95\" for their 1994 \"Best Educational Product\" award, although it lost to the CD-ROM adaptation of \"The Way Things Work\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47369", "title": "Fionn mac Cumhaill", "text": "Fionn mac Cumhaill\n\nFionn mac Cumhaill ( ; Old and or \"mac Cumail\" or \"Umaill\", sometimes transcribed in English as \"MacCool\" or \"MacCoul\") was a mythical hunter-warrior of Irish mythology, occurring also in the mythologies of Scotland and the Isle of Man. The stories of Fionn and his followers the Fianna, form the Fenian Cycle (\"an Fhiannaíocht\"), much of it narrated in the voice of Fionn's son, the poet Oisín.\n\nIn Old Irish, \"finn\" means \"white, bright, lustrous; fair, light-hued (of complexion, hair, etc.); fair, handsome (often, but not necessarily, implying fairness of complexion); bright, blessed; in moral sense, fair, just, true\". It is cognate with Proto-Irish \"VENDO-\" (found in names from Ogam inscriptions), Welsh \"gwyn\", Cornish \"gwen\", Breton \"gwenn\", Continental Celtic and Brittonic \"*uindo-\" (a common element in personal and place names), and comes from the Proto-Celtic adjective masculine singular \"*windos\" (likely derived from the Proto-Indo-European root *weyd- \"to know, to see\").\n\nMost of Fionn's early adventures are recounted in the narrative \"The Boyhood Deeds of Fionn\". He was the son of Cumhall, leader of the Fianna, and Muirne, daughter of the druid Tadg mac Nuadat who lived on the hill of Almu in County Kildare. Cumhall abducted Muirne after her father refused him her hand, so Tadg appealed to the High King, Conn of the Hundred Battles, who outlawed Cumhall. The Battle of Cnucha was fought between Conn and Cumhall, and Cumhall was killed by Goll mac Morna, who took over leadership of the Fianna. Fionn Mac Cumhaill was said to be originally from Ballyfin, in Laois. The direct translation of Ballyfin from Irish to English is \"town of Fionn\".\n\nMuirne was already pregnant; her father rejected her and ordered his people to burn her, but Conn would not allow it and put her under the protection of Fiacal mac Conchinn, whose wife, Bodhmall the druid, was Cumhall's sister. In Fiacal's house Muirne gave birth to a son, whom she called Deimne (; ), literally \"sureness\" or \"certainty\", also a name that means a young male deer; several legends tell how he gained the name Fionn when his hair turned prematurely white.\n\nMuirne left the boy in the care of Bodhmall and a fighting woman, Liath Luachra, and they brought him up in secret in the forest of Sliabh Bladma, teaching him the arts of war and hunting. As he grew older he entered the service – incognito – of a number of local kings, but each one, when he recognised Fionn as Cumhal's son, told him to leave, fearing they would be unable to protect him from his enemies.\n\nThe young Fionn met the leprechaun-like druid and poet Finn Eces, or Finnegas, near the river Boyne and studied under him. Finnegas had spent seven years trying to catch the Salmon of Knowledge, which lived in a pool on the Boyne and became all-knowing through its diets of hazelnuts from a holy tree: whoever ate the salmon would gain all the knowledge in the world. Eventually the old man caught it, and told the boy to cook it for him. While cooking it Deimne burned his thumb, and instinctively put his thumb in his mouth. This imbued him with the salmon's wisdom, and when Finn Eces saw that he had gained wisdom, he gave young Fionn the whole salmon to eat. Fionn then knew how to gain revenge against Goll, and in subsequent stories was able to call on the knowledge of the salmon by putting his thumb to the tooth that had first tasted the salmon. The story of Fionn and the salmon of knowledge and the Welsh tale of Gwion Bach are similar.\n\nEvery year for 23 years at Samhain, a fire-breathing man of the Sidhe, Aillen, would lull the men of Tara to sleep with his music before burning the palace to the ground, and the Fianna, led by Goll mac Morna, were powerless to prevent it. The Fianna were a band of warriors also known as a military order composed mainly of the members of two clans, \"Clan Bascna\" and \"Clan Morna\", the Fenians were supposed to be devoted to the service of the High King and to the repelling of foreign invaders. Fionn arrived at Tara, armed with his father's crane-skin bag of magical weapons. He kept himself awake by touching the point of his magically red-hot spear to his forehead. The pain kept Fionn awake, allowing him to pursue and kill Aillen with the same spear. After that his heritage was recognised and he was given command of the Fianna: Goll willingly stepped aside, and became a loyal follower of Fionn, although in some stories their alliance is uneasy. Fionn demanded compensation for his father's death from Tadg, threatening war or single combat against him if he refused. Tadg offered him his home, the hill of Allen, as compensation, which Fionn accepted.\n\nFionn met his most famous wife, Sadhbh, when he was out hunting. She had been turned into a deer by a druid, Fear Doirich, whom she had refused to marry. Fionn's hounds, Bran and Sceólang, born of a human enchanted into the form of a hound, recognised her as human, and Fionn brought her home. She transformed back into a woman the moment she set foot on Fionn's land, as this was the one place she could regain her true form. She and Fionn married and she was soon pregnant. When Fionn was away defending his country, Fear Doirich (literally meaning Dark Man) returned and turned her back into a deer, whereupon she vanished. Fionn spent years searching for her, but to no avail. Bran and Sceólang, again hunting, found her son, Oisín, in the form of a fawn; he transformed into a child, and went on to be one of the greatest of the Fianna.\n\nIn \"The Pursuit of Diarmuid and Gráinne\" the High King Cormac mac Airt promises the aging Fionn his daughter Gráinne, but at the wedding feast Gráinne falls for one of the Fianna, Diarmuid Ua Duibhne, noted for his beauty. She forces him to run away with her and Fionn pursues them. The lovers are helped by the Fianna, and by Diarmuid's foster-father, the god Aengus. Eventually Fionn makes his peace with the couple. Years later, however, Fionn invites Diarmuid on a boar hunt, and Diarmuid is gored. Water drunk from Fionn's hands has the power of healing, but each time Fionn gathers water he lets it run through his fingers before he gets back to Diarmuid. His grandson Oscar shames Fionn, but when he finally returns with water it is too late; Diarmuid has died.\n\nAccording to the most popular account of Fionn's death, he is not dead at all, rather, he sleeps in a cave, surrounded by the Fianna. One day he will awake and defend Ireland in the hour of her greatest need. In one account, it is said that he will arise when the Dord Fiann, the hunting horn of the Fianna, is sounded three times, and he will be as strong and as well as he ever was.\n\nMany geographical features in Ireland are attributed to Fionn. Legend has it he built the Giant's Causeway as stepping-stones to Scotland, so as not to get his feet wet; he also once scooped up part of Ireland to fling it at a rival, but it missed and landed in the Irish Sea — the clump became the Isle of Man and the pebble became Rockall, the void became Lough Neagh. In Ayrshire, Scotland a common myth is that Ailsa Craig, a small islet just off coast of the said county, is another rock thrown at the fleeing Benandonner. The islet being referred to as paddys' mile stone in Ayrshire. Fingal's Cave in Scotland is also named after him, and shares the feature of hexagonal basalt columns with the nearby Giant's Causeway in Northern Ireland.\n\nIn both Irish and Manx popular folklore, Fionn mac Cumhail (known as \"Finn McCool\" or \"Finn MacCooill\" respectively) is portrayed as a magical, benevolent giant. The most famous story attached to this version of Fionn tells of how one day, while making a pathway in the sea towards Scotland – The Giant's Causeway – Fionn is told that the giant Benandonner (or, in the Manx version, a buggane) is coming to fight him. Knowing he cannot withstand the colossal Benandonner, Fionn asks his wife Oona to help him. She dresses her husband as a baby, and he hides in a cradle; then she makes a batch of griddle-cakes, hiding griddle-irons in some. When Benandonner arrives, Oona tells him Fionn is out but will be back shortly. As Benandonner waits, he tries to intimidate Oona with his immense power, breaking rocks with his little finger. Oona then offers Benandonner a griddle-cake, but when he bites into the iron he chips his teeth. Oona scolds him for being weak (saying her husband eats such cakes easily), and feeds one without an iron to the 'baby', who eats it without trouble.\n\nIn the Irish version, Benandonner is so awed by the power of the baby's teeth and the size of the baby that, at Oona's prompting, he puts his fingers in Fionn's mouth to feel how sharp his teeth are. Fionn bites Benandonner's little finger, and scared of the prospect of meeting his father considering the baby's size, Benandonner runs back towards Scotland across the Causeway smashing the causeway so Fionn couldn't follow him.\n\nThe Manx Gaelic version contains a further tale of how Fionn and the buggane battle at Kirk Christ Rushen. Fionn's feet carve out the channels between the Calf of Man and Kitterland and between Kitterland and the Isle of Man, while the buggane's feet make an opening for the port at Port Erin. The buggane injures Fionn, who flees over the sea (where the buggane cannot follow), but the buggane tears out one of his own teeth and strikes Fionn as he runs away. The tooth falls into the sea, becoming the Chicken Rock, and Fionn curses the tooth, explaining why it is a hazard to sailors.\n\nIn Newfoundland, and some parts of Nova Scotia, \"Fingal's Rising\" is spoken of in a distinct nationalistic sense. Made popular in songs and bars alike, to speak of \"Fingle,\" as his name is pronounced in English versus \"Fion MaCool\" in Newfoundland Irish, is sometimes used as a stand-in for Newfoundland or its culture.\n\nIn 1761 James Macpherson announced the discovery of an epic written by Ossian (Oisín) in the Scottish Gaelic language on the subject of \"Fingal\". The personal name \"Fingal\" is derived from the Gaelic \"Fionnghall\", and it has been suggested that Macpherson rendered Fionn's name as \"Fingal\" through a misapprehension of the various forms of \"Fionn\". In December 1761 Macpherson published \"Fingal, an Ancient Epic Poem in Six Books, together with Several Other Poems composed by Ossian, the Son of Fingal, translated from the Gaelic Language\". His cycle of poems was wildly popular and had widespread influence on such writers as Goethe and the young Walter Scott, but there was controversy from the outset about Macpherson's claims to have translated the works from ancient sources. The authenticity of the poems is now generally doubted, though they may have been based on fragments of Gaelic legend, and to some extent the controversy has overshadowed their considerable literary merit and influence on Romanticism.\n\n\"Glencoe: The Story of the Massacre\" by John Prebble (Secker & Warburg, 1966), has an account of a legendary battle between Fionn mac Cumhaill, who supposedly lived for a time in Glencoe (in Scotland), and a Viking host in forty longships which sailed up the narrows by Ballachulish into Loch Leven. The Norsemen were defeated by the Feinn of the valley of Glencoe, and their chief Earragan was slain by Goll MacMorna.\n\nFionn mac Cumhaill features heavily in modern Irish literature. Most notably he makes several appearances in James Joyce's \"Finnegans Wake\", and some have posited that the title, taken from the street ballad \"Finnegan's Wake\", may also be a blend of \"Finn again is awake,\" referring to his eventual awakening to defend Ireland.\n\nFionn also appears as a character in Flann O'Brien's comic novel, \"At Swim-Two-Birds\", in passages that parody the style of Irish myths. Morgan Llywelyn's book \"Finn Mac Cool\" tells of Fionn's rise to leader of the Fianna and the love stories that ensue in his life. That character is celebrated in \"The Legend of Finn MacCumhail\", a song by the Boston-based band Dropkick Murphys featured on their album \"Sing Loud Sing Proud!\".\n\n\"Irish Fairy Tales\" by James Stephens is a retelling of a few of the Fiannaíocht.\n\nFinn McCool is a character in Terry Pratchett's and Steve Baxter's \"The Long War\".\n\nFinn's early childhood and education is explored in \" 'Tis Himself: The Tale of Finn MacCool\" by Maggie Brace.\n\nOther stories featuring Fionn Mac Cumhail are two of three of the stories in The Corliss Chronicles the story of Prudence Corliss. In the stories he is featured in The Wraith of Bedlam and The Silver Wheel. He is a close confidant to Prudence and allies himself with her to defeat the evil fictional king Tarcarrius.\n\nIn the 1999 Irish dance show Dancing on Dangerous Ground, conceived and choreographed by former Riverdance leads, Jean Butler and Colin Dunne, Tony Kemp portrayed Fionn in a modernised version of \"The Pursuit of Diarmuid and Gráinne\". In this, Diarmuid, played by Colin Dunne, dies at the hands of the Fianna after he and Gráinne, played by Jean Butler, run away together into the forests of Ireland, immediately after Fionn and Gráinne's wedding. When she sees Diarmuid's body, Gráinne dies of a broken heart.\n\nIn 2010, Washington DC's Dizzie Miss Lizzie's Roadside Revue debuted their rock musical \"Finn McCool\" at the Capitol Fringe Festival. The show retells the legend of Fionn mac Cumhaill through punk-inspired rock, and was performed at the Woolly Mammoth Theater in March 2011.\n\nPlayed by Daniel Quirke on the Edenderry Barge in 2002, with an Emmy Award nominated performance (Art by: Maeve Quinn).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28574235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28574235", "title": "Fundamenta Botanica", "text": "Fundamenta Botanica\n\nFundamenta Botanica (“Foundations of botany”) (Amsterdam, Salomon Schouten, ed. 1, 1736) was one of the major works of the Swedish botanist, zoologist and physician Carl Linnaeus (1707–1778) and issued both as a separate work and part of the \"Bibliotheca Botanica\".\n\nThis book states, for the first time, Linnaeus's ideas for the reformation of botanical taxonomy. The first edition is dated 1736 but it was released on 14 September 1735 (Linnaeus wrote in his personal copy “Typus absolutus 1735, Sept. 3”). The full title was \"Fundamenta Botanica, quae Majorum Operum Prodromi instar Theoriam Scientiae Botanices by breves Aphorismos tradunt\". The first edition was dedicated to Olof Rudbeck, Lorenz Heister, Adriaan van Royen, Johann Jacob Dillen, Antoine de Jussieu, Giulio Pontedera, Johann Amman, Johannes Burman, Pierre Magnol and Giuseppe Monti. A second edition was published in Stockholm in 1740 and a third in Amsterdam in 1741. The publication of this work as well as Genera Plantarum and Systema Naturae was encouraged by Herman Boerhaave who had been Linnaeus’s teacher.\n\nThe \"Fundamenta\" in combination with the \"Critica Botanica\" lays Linnaeus's foundations for his system of nomenclature, classification and botanical terminology that were later reviewed and expanded in the \"Philosophia Botanica\" (1751). He does this by means of 365 Aphorisms (principles) arranged into 12 chapters:\n\nFundamenta aphorisms\n\nFull bibliographic details including exact dates of publication, pagination, editions, facsimiles, brief outline of contents, location of copies, secondary sources, translations, reprints, manuscripts, travelogues, and commentaries are given in Stafleu and Cowan's \"Taxonomic Literature\".\n\n"}
{"id": "649244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=649244", "title": "GCIDE", "text": "GCIDE\n\nGCIDE is the GNU version of Collaborative International Dictionary of English, derived from the 1913 edition of Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary and WordNet. The dictionary is released under the GNU General Public License.\n\nIt describes itself as \"a freely-available set of ASCII files containing the marked-up text of a substantial English dictionary\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5613282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5613282", "title": "Gifted &amp; Talented series", "text": "Gifted &amp; Talented series\n\nThe Gifted & Talented series is a book series that has sold more than one million copies. It contained books for children and their parents. The first title in the series was \"Science Questions & Answers: The Human Body\".\n\nThe series was originally published by Lowell House and subsequently by McGraw-Hill/Contemporary. The series was created for Lowell House in 1987 by Susan Amerikaner. It was the first series to use thinking skills in appropriate ways for young children. Many of the original titles are out of print. The series is now distributed by School Specialty Company.\n\n\n Teaching the Gifted & Talented learners - in the mainstream school by Oyesigye Robert Stuart, LAMBERT Academic Publishing)\n"}
{"id": "2048381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2048381", "title": "Golden Bull of 1222", "text": "Golden Bull of 1222\n\nThe Golden Bull of 1222 was a golden bull, or edict, issued by King Andrew II of Hungary. King Andrew II was forced by his nobles to accept the Golden Bull (Aranybulla), which was one of the first examples of constitutional limits being placed on the powers of a European monarch. The Golden Bull was issued at the year 1222 diet of Fehérvár. The law established the rights of the Hungarian nobility, including the right to disobey the King when he acted contrary to law (\"jus resistendi\"). The nobles and the church were freed from all taxes and could not be forced to go to war outside of Hungary and were not obligated to finance it. This was also a historically important document because it set down the principles of equality for all of the nation's nobility. Seven copies of the edict were created, one for each of the following institutions: to the Pope, to the Knights Templar, to the Knights Hospitaller, to the Hungarian king itself, to the chapters of Esztergom and Kalocsa and to the palatine.\n\nThe charter's creation was influenced by the emergence of a nobility middle class, unusual in the nation's feudal system. As a regular gesture of generosity, King Andrew often donated property to particularly faithful servants, who thereafter gained new economic and class power. With the nation's class system and economic state changing, King Andrew found himself coerced into decreeing the Golden Bull of 1222 to relax tensions between hereditary nobles and the budding middle class nobility.\n\nThe Golden Bull is often compared to Magna Carta; the Bull was the first constitutional document of the nation of Hungary, while Magna Carta was the first constitutional charter of the nation of England.\n\nThe Golden Bull that Andrew II of Hungary issued in the spring of 1222 is \"one of a number of charters published in thirteenth-century Christendom that sought to constrain the royal power.\" Peter II of Aragon had already in 1205 planned to make concessions to his subjects. Simon de Montfort, supreme commander of the Albigensian Crusade, issued the Statute of Pamiers in 1212, confirming the privileges of the clergymen and limiting the authority of the future rulers of Toulouse and Carcassone. The statute influenced the Magna Carta of John, King of England, which also secured the liberties of the Church and regulated feudal relationships in 1215. The Holy Roman Emperor, Frederick II, strengthened the authority of the imperial prelates in 1220.\n\nContacts between Hungary and these countries can be demonstrated during this period. Aragonese nobles settled in Hungary in the early 13th century. Hungarian participants of the Fifth Crusade could meet Robert Fitzwalter and other leaders of the movement which had achieved the issue of the Magna Carta. Two Hungarian prelates visited Canterbury in 1220. However, no direct connection between the texts of the Golden Bull and other early 13th-century grants of liberties can be demonstrated. Historian James Clarke Holt says, there is no need to assume that the authors of these documents borrowed from each other, because all these charters embodied the \"natural reaction of feudal societies to monarchical importunity\".\n\nThe existence of at least a dozen distinct social groups can be documented in Hungary in the 12th and 13th centuries. Freemen and serfs were the two fundamental categories, but intermediate \"semi-free\" groups also existed. Freemen could in theory freely choose their lords, but they were in practice required to remain loyal to their masters. On the other hand, unfree warriors could hold large estates which were legally protected against arbitrary actions of royal officials.\n\nThe highest-ranking royal officials were appointed from among men who regarded themselves the descendants of either the Hungarian chieftains of the period of the establishment of the kingdom or of the foreign warriors who settled in Hungary during the subsequent centuries. They were mentioned as \"noblemen\" from the end of the 12th century, but they did not form a hereditary elite. The most prominent families started to name themselves after their forefathers in the 1200s, but their genealogies were often fabricated. The \"Gesta Hungarorum\", which was completed around 1200, emphasized that the ancestors of many noblemen played a preeminent role in the Hungarian Conquest of the Carpathian Basin.\n\nInitially, each freeman was required to serve in the royal army. Those who were unable to perform this duty were obliged to pay taxes in the 12th century. The majority of the castle warriors were unfree, but freemen could also choose to serve the \"ispáns\" (or heads) of the royal castles. They were to defend the royal castles and accompany the monarchs to their military campaigns in exchange for the parcels they held in royal lands around the castles. Free castle warriors could also retain their own estates. The highest ranking castle warriors started to refer to themselves as \"freemen\" or \"warriors of the holy kings\" to emphasize their privileged status.\n\nThousands of foreignersSlavs, Germans, Italians and Walloonscame to Hungary to populate the sparsely inhabited lands or to work in the centers of royal administration. These \"guests\" preserved their personal freedom even if they settled in the estates of the aristocrats or churchmen. Jews could legally settle only in the centers of the bishoprics, but they actually also lived in other towns. They were primarily merchants, engaged in long-distance trade. Muslims who settled in Hungary were primarily employed in the administration of royal revenues, but the presence of Muslim warriors is also documented.\n\nBéla III of Hungary, who ruled from 1172 to 1196, was one of the wealthiest European monarchs of his time, according to a summary of his revenues. He earned income from the periodical exchange of coins, royal salt monopoly and customs duties, but significant part of his revenues came from the royal estates, because he owned more than half of landed property in the kingdom. He decreed that each transaction proceeding in his presence was to be recorded, which gave rise to the development of the royal chancellery. Thereafter private transactions were also frequently recorded and preserved at specific monasteries or cathedral chapters, known as \"places of authentication\".\n\nBéla III's eldest son and successor, Emeric, faced a series of rebellions initiated by his younger brother, Andrew. Both the king and his brother, who seized Croatia and Dalmatia, made generous grants to their partisans to secure their loyalty. Prelates and high-ranking officials supported Andrew against the king, but Emeric defeated his brother. Andrew mounted the throne after the sudden death of Emeric's infant son, Ladislaus III, in 1205.\n\nAndrew appointed his former supporters to the highest offices, but most of his brother's former officials could retain their offices, because he needed their assistance. For instance, four of Andrew's first seven palatinesCsépán Győr and his brother, Pat, Julius Kán and Bánk Bár-Kalánhad held offices already during Emeric's reign. The \"ispáns\" of Bács, Sopron, Zala and other important counties were mostly nominated from among Emeric's former supporters. The heads of the royal householdincluding the master of the horse and the master of the stewardsbecame the members of the royal council during Andrew's reign. He always appointed one of his old partisans to these new offices.\n\nAndrew started to grant large areas of royal estates and significant sums of money to his former supporters. For instance, Alexander of the Hont-Pázmány clan, who had helped Andrew to flee from his brother's prison, received 300 marks in 1217. Andrew's predecessors had also donated royal estates in perpetuity, but mostly those situated in the borderlands. Breaking with this practise, Andrew gave away large domains which were located in the central regions. The new policy of donations, known as \"novae institutiones\" (\"new arrangements\"), significantly reduced the revenues of the \"ispáns\" of the counties, because one third of all royal revenues from their counties were due to them. The \"new arrangements\" also diminished royal revenues. Andrew introduced new taxes and ordered the exchange of coins twice a year to secure the funds to the maintenance of his royal court. He farmed out the collection of the taxes and the administration of the royal mint to Jews and Muslims.\n\nAccording to a widespread scholarly theory, the appearance of wealthy landowners in the counties threatened the social position of both the free and unfree royal warriors. Lesser landowners started to emphasize their direct link to the monarch. According to the available sources, landowners from Hosszúhetény were the first to call themselves \"freemen and royal servants\" during a court case against the abbot of Pécsvárad Abbey in 1212. Andrew started to grant the same status from the 1210s. Royal servants were to serve in the royal army, but independently of the \"ispáns\" who were the commanders of the county troops.\n\nAndrew's \"new arrangements\" stirred up discontent among his subjects. A group of dignitaries made attempts to dethrone him in favor of his cousins in 1209. His wife, Gertrude of Merania, who had persuaded him to make generous grants to her German relatives and courtiers, was assassinated in 1213. He was forced to have his eight-year-old son, Béla, crowned king in 1214. After he left for a crusade to the Holy Land in 1217, his deputy, John, Archbishop of Esztergom, was expelled from Hungary. Andrew returned to Hungary in 1218. Shortly thereafter, his chancellery issued a series of charters which were dated as if he had started to reign in the spring of 1204, thus ignoring the last months of his brother's reign and the entire period of his nephew's rule. According to historian Attila Zsoldos, Andrew wanted to invalidate the royal charters which were issued during the eighteen months before his actual ascension to the throne.\n\nThe royal council ordered the revision of the grants concerning the estates of the \"udvornici\" (or semi-free peasants) in 1220. Next year, a similar decision was passed about the estates of the castle folk. Andrew was forced to appoint Béla to administer the lands beyond the Drava River in 1220. The noblemen who had lost Andrew's favor assembled in his son's new court.\n\nThe circumstances of the promulgation of the Golden Bull are uncertain because of the lack of sources. The Golden Bull itself is the principal source of the events which forced Andrew to issue it. Royal charters and Pope Honorius III's letters to Hungarian dignitaries provide further information about the political history of the year.\n\nOn 4 July 1222, the pope urged the Hungarian prelates to apply ecclesiastical censures against those who had claimed that they did not owe loyalty to Andrew, but to Béla.\n\nThe available data suggest that discontented noblemen, many of whom had held high offices during Emeric's reign, staged a coup in the spring of 1222.\n\nMore than one third of the articles of the Golden Bull dealt with the grievances of the royal servants. The king promised that neither the \"collecta\" (an extraordinary tax) nor the freemen's pennies (an ordinary tax) would be collected on their estates. He also pledged that he would not force them to accommodate him and his officials. Royal servants who had no sons were granted the right to freely dispose of their estates in their testaments. The Golden Bull limited the judicial power of the \"ispáns\", stating that in the royal servants' estates they could administer justice only in cases concerning the tithe and coinage. Royal servants were exempted of the obligation of accompanying the monarch to military expeditions to foreign lands.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1776549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1776549", "title": "Grounation Day", "text": "Grounation Day\n\nGrounation Day (April 21) is an important Rastafari holy day, and second after Coronation Day (November 2). It is celebrated in honor of Haile Selassie's 1966 visit to Jamaica.\nHaile Selassie had already met with several Rasta elders in Addis Ababa, and had allowed Rastafari and other people of African descent to settle on his personal land in Shashamane.\n\nHaile Selassie visited Jamaica on Thursday, 21 April 1966. Some 100,000 Rastafari from all over Jamaica descended on Palisadoes Airport in Kingston, having heard that the man whom they considered to be God was coming to visit them. They waited at the airport playing drums and smoking large quantities of marijuana. Today the Rastafari celebrate that Haile Selassie visited Jamaica on April 21st.\n\nWhen Haile Selassie's Ethiopian Airlines flight landed at the airport at 1:30 PM, the crowd surrounded his plane on the tarmac. The day had been overcast and stormy. After about half an hour, the door swung open and the emperor appeared at the top of the mobile steps. A deafening tumult was heard from the crowd, who beat calabash drums, lit firecrackers, waved signs, and sounded Abeng horns of the Maroons. All protocol was dropped as the crowd pressed past the security forces and onto the red carpet that had been laid out for the reception. Selassie waved from the top of the steps; some interpreters have claimed that he shed tears, although this is disputed. He then returned into the plane, disappearing for several more minutes. Finally Jamaican authorities were obliged to request Ras Mortimer Planno, a well-known Rasta leader, to climb the steps, enter the plane, and negotiate the Emperor's descent. When Planno reemerged, he announced to the crowd: \"The Emperor has instructed me to tell you to be calm. Step back and let the Emperor land\" After Planno escorted the African monarch down the steps, journalists were puzzled by Selassie's refusal to walk on the red carpet on the way to his limousine. [hence \"grounation\", Iyaric equivalent of \"foundation\", \"uplifted\" with the sound of the word \"ground\" in the sense of \"making contact with the soil\"] He was then driven to the King's House, the residence of Governor-General Clifford Campbell. \n\nAs a result of Planno's actions, the Jamaican authorities were asked to ensure that Rastafari representatives were present at all state functions attended by His Majesty, and Rastafari elders, including Planno and probably Joseph Hibbert, also obtained a private audience with the Emperor, where he reportedly told them that they should not immigrate to Ethiopia until they had first liberated the people of Jamaica. This dictum came to be known as \"liberation before repatriation\". At a dinner held at the King's House, Rastas claimed that acting Jamaican Prime Minister Donald Sangster had stamped his foot at Lulu, Haile Selassie's pet chihuahua, who, they swore, had responded with the roar of a lion.\n\nDefying expectations of the Jamaican authorities, Selassie never rebuked the Rastafari for their belief in him as the Messiah. Instead, he presented the movement's faithful elders with gold medallions bearing the Ethiopian seal – the only recipients of such an honour on this visit. Meanwhile, he presented some of the Jamaican politicians, including Sangster, with miniature coffin-shaped cigarette boxes.\n\nRita Marley, Bob Marley's wife, converted to the Rastafari faith after seeing Haile Selassie in his motorcade en route to the King's House. She claimed, in interviews and in her book \"No Woman No Cry\", that she had seen a \"stigma\" on Haile Selassie's hand as he waved to the crowd, and was instantly convinced of his divinity. \n\nFor years afterward, Planno, who became a spiritual guru of Bob Marley, would give out enlarged photographs of himself with the Emperor on the steps of the airplane. \n\nThe great significance of this event in the development of the Rastafari religion should not be underestimated. Having been outcasts in society, they gained a measure of respectability for the first time. By making Rasta more acceptable, it opened the way for the commercialisation of reggae, leading in turn to the further global spread of Rastafari.\n\nHaile Selassie is thought to have encouraged the Rastafari elders to learn about the Ethiopian Orthodox faith while in Jamaica, and in 1970, he dispatched Archbishop Laike Mandefro to establish a mission in Jamaica. Mandefro was formally invited by Joseph Hibbert, one of the original founders of the Rastafari Movement, to teach the Rasta community, and in 1971 Mandefro named Hibbert as a \"Spiritual Organizer\". During this time, Mandefro pointedly refused calls to demand that the Rastafari renounce their faith in Haile Selassie's divinity, and some 2,000 Rastas accordingly received Orthodox baptisms.\n\nBecause of Haile Selassie's visit, April 21 is celebrated as Grounation Day. The \"Abu Ye! Abu Ye Abu ye! Abu ye!\" chant is an element of Grounation Day festivities.\n"}
{"id": "4172111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4172111", "title": "Hermesvilla", "text": "Hermesvilla\n\nHermesvilla is a palace in the Lainzer Tiergarten, in Vienna, a former hunting area for the Habsburg nobility. Emperor Franz Joseph I gave it to his wife Empress Elisabeth (nicknamed \"Sisi\"), and he called it the \"castle of dreams.“ The name of the villa refers to a statue of Hermes made of white marble that is located in the garden of the villa. Today, the Hermesvilla is noted for its art and natural setting, and is used by the Vienna Museum for special exhibitions on cultural history.\n\nEmperor Franz Joseph decided to build the Villa Hermés, originally called the \"Villa Waldruh,\" in the summer of 1881. Ostensibly, the Emperor hoped it would encourage his wife, who traveled widely, to remain in Vienna. It was designed by architect Karl Freiherr von Hasenauer, and construction lasted 1882 until 1886. In 1885, the decision was made to rename the building \"Villa Hermés\". The Empress herself commissioned the sculptor Ernst Herter from Berlin to create the sculpture, titled \"Hermés der Wächter\" (\"Hermés the Guardian\") and instructed that it was to be placed in the garden of the villa. Documents at the \"Stadterweiterungsfond\" describe numerous stone deliveries of Sterzinger Marble, Laaser Marble and Wöllersdorfer Stone for staircases in the main building. Hard Mannersdorfer Stone, Almaser Stone, Lindabrunner Stone, St. Margarethener Stone, as well as \"Kaiserstein\" from \"Kaisersteinbruch\" were used in surrounding buildings.\n\nIn 1886, the villa, and all surrounding buildings, including riding facilities and stables for the horses of Empress Elisabeth, were finished. From 1887 until her assassination in 1898, the imperial couple regularly spent time there every year in late spring, varying from a few days to a couple of weeks.\nIn developing the grounds, Emperor Franz Joseph ordered that care be taken to flatten all the meadows and remove all molehills, expressing concern that otherwise the Empress \"could not hack her horses\" there. At a small pond nearby, a gazebo was built for the Empress, though it is no longer there today. The street leading to the Villa was one of the first streets in Vienna with electric lighting, and the Villa was one of the first buildings in Vienna with a telephone connection.\n\nDuring the post-WWII Russian occupation of Vienna from 1945-1955, the Villa was looted by the Soviets, became run down and remained in poor condition for a number of years. However, in 1963, the Disney movie \"Miracle of the White Stallions\" brought back the interest in the building. This led to a private initiative that motivated the Austrian authorities to renovate the Villa, and the renovation process lasted from 1968 until 1974. The first exhibition opened in 1971 as Austria's contribution to the \"World Hunt Exhibition\" in Budapest. Since then the Hermesvilla has become a \"jewel\" in the heart of the 2500 hectare nature reserve and is a popular destination, particularly for people interested in Habsburg culture, history, and the \"Sisi Myth\" of the beautiful and unhappy Empress who had met a tragic fate\n\nMurals by Hans Makart, Gustav Klimt and Victor Tilgner are an integral part of the interior design. On the first floor are the private rooms of the Empress. The body conscious, possibly anorexic \"Empress Sisi\" worked out every day in the \"Turnzimmer\" (gymnasium). The room was originally equipped with a balance beam, Chin-up bar for pull-ups and rings. It also contains murals in the Pompeian style by August Eisenmenger, Hugo Charlemont and Adolf Falkensteiner, showing various sports.\n\nBehind the Empress' dressing room is the bedroom of the Empress. In contrast to other rooms, here numerous historic objects have been preserved, including a gigantic baroque \"state bed\", dating to the time of Maria Theresa that once stood in the imperial room of the postal station in Strengberg near Amstetten in Lower Austria. The murals in the bedroom are based on motifs from Shakespeare's \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" and were done by Hans Makart. From the bedroom, a spiral staircase leads to the ground floor and in the garden. In the salon hangs the restored painting \"The Spring“ by Franz Matsch, Gustav Klimt and Georg Klimt.\n\nIn front of the palace stands the sculpture \"Elisabeth\" by Ulrike Truger. In this statue, commissioned in 1998, installed in the Lainzer Tiergarten in 2001, and moved to the Hermesvilla in 2006, the artist used the a central theme of \"duty - escape - freedom“ (\"zwang – flucht – freiheit\"), reflecting the Empress' inner feelings. It is made of Carrara marble, stands about high, and weighs 6.5 tonnes. Truger wanted the work to counter a romanticized \"Sisi\" stereotype. The statue presents the Empress differently from each side, standing for different aspects within the personality of the Empress, who chafed under the restrictions of court life: One side, \"duty/obligation\" (\"zwang\") expresses the duty and obligations of her expected role. The next, \"escape\" (\"flucht \") expresses her desire to flee; and finally the theme \"freedom\" (\"freiheit\") is expressed with an image that includes wings. Thus, Truger's interpretation of the Empress explores the interplay between structure and freedom.\n\nThe stables, originally built for the horses of the Empress, are located in the left wing of the courtyard. The original stable equipment, including the wall partitions for the box stalls and tie stalls, still exist today to a large extent. Between the horse stalls is a \"Rondeau,\" a perfectly circular round pen of diameter in which the horses of the Empress were longed during bad weather. From the 1950s until 2005 these stables were used as a summer stable for the Lipizzan stallions of the Spanish Riding School. For seven weeks the stallions were given holidays at this location, where their riders gave them a change in routine from their usual work, taking them out hacking in the nearby forests of the \"Tiergarten\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3396530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3396530", "title": "IBM Tivoli Directory Server", "text": "IBM Tivoli Directory Server\n\nIBM Security Directory Server, formerly known as IBM Directory Server and IBM Tivoli Directory Server, is an IBM implementation of the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol\n\nIBM Security Directory Server is an enterprise directory for corporate intranets and the Internet. IBM Security Directory Server is built to serve as the identity data foundation for rapid development and deployment of Web applications and security and identity management initiatives by including strong management, replication and security features.\n\nSeveral authentication methods are available with IBM Security Directory Server, beyond basic usernames and passwords. IBM Security Directory Server supports digital certificate-based authentication, the Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL), Challenge-Response Authentication Mechanism MD5 (CRAM-MD5), and Kerberos authentication.\n\nIBM Security Directory Server has an LDAP infrastructure that provides a foundation for deploying comprehensive identity management applications and advanced software architectures.\n\nDuring the product's inception, IBM named its product the IBM SecureWay Directory. This name wasn't changed until the Release 5.1 of the product and was then known as IBM Directory Server. With the next version of the product, Release 5.2, the name was again changed to include the Tivoli in it, and was known as IBM Tivoli Directory Server. The latest release offered as of Mar 2014 is IBM Security Directory Server.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41429019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41429019", "title": "Koji Ruien", "text": "Koji Ruien\n\nKoji Ruien (古事類苑) is a Japanese encyclopaedic work initiated by the Meiji government, and compiled from historical source documents. Over the period from 1896 to 1914 a total of 1,000 volumes were compiled, under various subject categories.\n\n"}
{"id": "34846194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34846194", "title": "LAT Photographic", "text": "LAT Photographic\n\nLAT Photographic is a British-based motoring photographic agency, part of Motorsport Images division of Motorsport Network.\n\nEstablished in the 1960s as London Art Technical, the company covers major motorsport competitions such as the Formula One, World Rally Championship, 24 Hours of Le Mans, British Touring Car Championship, NASCAR Cup Series, IndyCar Series and Grand Prix motorcycle racing, and provides pictures for magazines like Autosport, Autocar, F1 Racing and Motor Sport.\n\nLAT has a motoring and motor sport picture collection with over 18 million images, 500,000 of which are hosted in their website.\n\nLAT is headed by photographer Steven Tee.\n\nIn 2016, the Haymarket Group sold their motorsport properties to Motorsport Network, including LAT.\n\n"}
{"id": "3697510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3697510", "title": "Lexington History Center", "text": "Lexington History Center\n\nThe Lexington History Center was a building housing several independent history museums in downtown Lexington, Kentucky. It was located in the former Fayette County Courthouse until 2012 when the city closed the building after progressively deteriorating lead paint and asbestos, along with mold were deemed to be a significant health concern. Prior to the closing of the building, the Isaac Scott Hathaway Museum moved to a new location on Georgetown Street. The building is currently being renovated into a multi-use commercial, tourist, office and event center. There are no current plans to include museums in the building once it reopens.\n\nThe building was opened as a museum center in October 2003 under a Memorandum of Understanding between the Lexington-Fayette Urban-County Government (Lexington, Ky.) and the Commonwealth of Kentucky that stipulated the municipal government would spend a \"minimum $1,000,000\" to renovate the Old Fayette County Courthouse as the Lexington History Museum—an amount that was never fulfilled. After evicting the Museums (see below) from the building, the city has committed to spending $30 million to renovate the building for commercial space.\n\nThe Lexington History Center was formerly host to several museums:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11216327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11216327", "title": "List of museums focused on African Americans", "text": "List of museums focused on African Americans\n\nThis is a list of museums in the United States whose primary focus is on African American culture and history. Such museums are commonly known as African American museums. According to scholar Raymond Doswell, an African American museum is \"an institution established for the preservation of African-derived culture.\"\n\nMuseums have a mission of \"collecting and preserving material on history and cultural heritage.\" African American museums share these goals with archives, genealogy groups, historical societies, and research libraries. Museums differ from archives, genealogy groups, historical societies, memorials, and research libraries because they have as a basic educational or aesthetic purpose the collection and display of objects, and regular exhibitions for the public. Being open to the public (not just researchers or by appointment) and having regular hours sets museums apart from historical sites or other facilities that may call themselves museums.\n\nThe first African American museum was the College Museum in Hampton, Virginia, established in 1868. Prior to 1950, there were about 30 museums devoted primarily to African American culture and history in the United States. These were located primarily at historically black colleges and universities or at libraries that had significant African American culture and history collections.\n\nImportant collections were developed at Bennett College in Greensboro, North Carolina; Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee; Howard University in Washington, D.C.; Lincoln University in Chester County, Pennsylvania; Morgan State University in Baltimore, Maryland; Talladega College in Talladega, Alabama; and Tuskegee University in Tuskegee, Alabama. Additionally, local historical societies, history clubs, and reading groups in African American communities also collected and displayed African American cultural artifacts.\n\nThe first independent, nonprofit African American museums in the United States were The African American Museum in Cleveland, Ohio (founded in 1956), the DuSable Museum of African American History in Chicago, Illinois (founded in 1960), and the Charles H. Wright Museum of African American History in Detroit, Michigan (founded in 1965). Throughout the 1960s, the energy of the American Civil Rights Movement led to numerous local African American museums being founded. Between 1868 and 1991, there were about 150 African American museums established in 37 states.\n\nSince its opening in 2016, the largest African American museum in the United States is the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of African American History and Culture. The previous record holder was the Charles H. Wright Museum of African American History in Detroit, Michigan.\n\n\"This is a sortable table. Click on the column you wish it sorted by.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3395753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3395753", "title": "Museum of Photography, Berlin", "text": "Museum of Photography, Berlin\n\nThe Museum of Photography () in the Charlottenburg district of Berlin, Germany, is one of the Berlin State Museums administered by the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation. \n\nIt is located next to the Zoologischer Garten railway station in the building of a former Landwehr officers' mess, erected in 1909 according to plans by Heino Schmieden. The museum opened in 2004 and also houses the collection of the Helmut Newton Foundation. In addition to the rotating special exhibits, the permanent exhibit \"Helmut Newton's Private Property\" displays some of the late photographers' personal articles.\n\n"}
{"id": "1166011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1166011", "title": "OpenSync (software)", "text": "OpenSync (software)\n\nOpenSync is an obsolete (or at least years-dormant) software library framework used for synchronization of PIM data (contacts, calendar, tasks, and notes) between personal computers and mobile devices. It is derived from MultiSync. OpenSync is plugin based and its product-specific plugins allow support for a wide variety of different synchronization endpoints (PIM applications, mobile phones, personal digital assistants, groupware servers, and Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) directories). Its design and implementation would allow other synchronization uses as well.\n\nOpenSync has been selected to be KDE's main synchronization framework. It is cross-platform software that can be run on Microsoft Windows and various Unix-like systems, including Linux and Mac OS X.\n\nOpenSync is free and open source software, released under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License.\n\nOpenSync has an ambitious goal to solve all possible PIM synchronization needs. Regardless of its current shortcomings, its feature list is extensive:\n\n\nOpenSync synchronization takes place in groups which can have two or more different type of members supporting different set of object attributes. Development version also has a sync engine that is able to merge attributes from same object changed on different endpoints.\n\nBefore synchronizing anything, OpenSync converts data coming from members into internal XML-based formats, which are:\n\n\nThis conversion is implemented in VFormat plugin. Format descriptions are in XML format, allowing more frequent updates to those without modifying and recompiling the actual program code.\n\nOpenSync is able to automatically configure some products for synchronized attribute settings (for supported attributes and data formats).\n\nOpenSync is able to merge different attribute changes of same object since last synchronization between different group members. This reduces significantly manual conflict resolutions and user attention to actual synchronization process.\n\nSince OpenSync is written in C and libraries it uses are openly available, it can be compiled to almost any platform where C compiler is available. Currently known working platforms are:\n\n\nSupport is based on general features and may vary depending on features of particular device, OpenSync bugs, or connection method used (Bluetooth, USB, IRDA).\n\nThe Motorola plugin is written in Python.\n\nGenerally, devices supporting SyncML 1.1 or 1.2 over Bluetooth, USB, or IP-protocol are supported. Nokia 770, N800, and N810 Internet Tablets using GPE suite are supported.\n\nSony Ericsson devices supporting SyncML or IrMC.\n\nMsynctool is the command-line interface that comes with OpenSync. Its name comes from the term \"MultiSync\", but it has been decided to change the name to something closer to the project name. Msynctool supports all features that OpenSync itself supports, and is thus considered to be the reference user interface.\n\nMototool is the command-line interface for Motorola's devices, and is also written in Python.\n\nKitchenSync is the GUI frontend for the K Desktop Environment. It synchronizes KDE PIM-suite applications like Kaddressbook (contacts), KOrganizer (calendar), and Knotes (notes). Mail synchronization is not supported. In future versions KitchenSync will be ported to KDE Akonadi. KitchenSync is written with C++-language, Qt- and KDE toolkits.\n\nKDE PIM applications can also be combined into Kontact framework, where they appear as a single application with tighter integration. As applications are the same, Kontact is also a supported application.\n\nGnome-Sync was a GUI frontend for GNOME desktop environment, now discontinued. It was written in C and used the GTK+ toolkit.\n\nSome of the plugins available for OpenSync are:\n\n\nThe OpenSync codebase has not been updated since 2012, but no stable release has been made since 2007. That stable release is 0.22, and as the codebase will be its last 0.2x release (although some fixes have been added). Main development efforts now focus on the current versions. Development versions (0.31 through 0.39) have gone through major architectural changes including capabilities and merging support, but a stable 0.40 release has proved elusive.\n\nThese are current challenges that developers are aware of and trying to address in the future releases.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2595888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2595888", "title": "Piazza della Signoria", "text": "Piazza della Signoria\n\nPiazza della Signoria () is an L-shaped square in front of the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence, Italy. It was named after the Palazzo della Signoria, also called Palazzo Vecchio. It is the main point of the origin and history of the Florentine Republic and still maintains its reputation as the political focus of the city. It is the meeting place of Florentines as well as the numerous tourists, located near Palazzo Vecchio and Piazza del Duomo and gateway to Uffizi Gallery.\n\nThe impressive 14th-century Palazzo Vecchio is still preeminent with its crenellated tower. The square is also shared with the Loggia della Signoria, the Uffizi Gallery, the Palace of the Tribunale della Mercanzia (1359) (now the Bureau of Agriculture), and the Palazzo Uguccioni (1550, with a facade attributed to Raphael, who however died thirty years before its construction). Located in front of the Palazzo Vecchio is the Palace of the Assicurazioni Generali (1871, built in Renaissance style).\n\nThe Palazzo Vecchio (\"Old Palace\") is the town hall of the city. This massive, Romanesque, crenellated fortress-palace is among the most impressive town halls of Tuscany. Overlooking the square with its copy of Michelangelo's David statue as well the gallery of statues in the adjacent Loggia dei Lanzi, it is one of the most significant public places in Italy, and it hosts cultural points and museums.\n\nOriginally called the \"Palazzo della Signoria\", after the Signoria of Florence, the ruling body of the Republic of Florence, it was also given several other names: \"Palazzo del Popolo\", \"Palazzo dei Priori\", and \"Palazzo Ducale\", in accordance with the varying use of the palace during its long history. The building acquired its current name when the Medici duke's residence was moved across the Arno to the Palazzo Pitti.\n\nThe Loggia dei Lanzi consists of wide arches open to the street, three bays wide and one bay deep. The arches rest on clustered pilasters with Corinthian capitals. The wide arches appealed so much to the Florentines, that Michelangelo even proposed that they should be continued all around the Piazza della Signoria. The vivacious construction of the Loggia is in stark contrast with the severe architecture of the Palazzo Vecchio. It is effectively an open-air sculpture gallery of antique and Renaissance art including the \"Medici lions\".\n\nThe \"Tribunale della Mercanzia\" (Tribunal of Merchandise) is a building where in the past lawyers judged in the trial between merchants. Here was a porch painted by Taddeo Gaddi, Antonio del Pollaiolo and Sandro Botticelli, today stored in the Uffizi gallery.\n\nBuilt for Giovanni Uguccioni since 1550, its design has been variously attributed to Raphael, Michelangelo, Bartolomeo Ammannati or Raffaello da Montelupo.\n\nThe Palazzo delle Assicurazioni Generali was designed in the Neo-Renaissance style in 1871, and is one of the very few purpose-built commercial buildings in the centre of the city. On the ground floor of this palace is the historical cafè Rivoire.\n\nOther palaces are the \"palazzo dei Buonaguisi\" and the \"palazzo dell'Arte dei Mercatanti\".\n\nVarious imposing statues ring this square including: \n\nThe piazza was already a central square in the original Roman town Florentia, surrounded by a theatre, Roman baths and a workshop for dyeing textiles. Later there was a church San Romolo, a loggia and an enormous 5th-century basilica. This was shown by the archaeological treasures found beneath the square when it was repaved in the 1980s. Even remains of a Neolithic site were found. The square started taking shape from 1268 on, when houses of Ghibellines were pulled down by the victorious Guelphs. The square remained a long time untidy, full of holes. In 1385 it was paved for the first time. In 1497 Girolamo Savonarola and his followers carried out on this square the famous Bonfire of the Vanities, burning in a large pile books, gaming tables, fine dresses, and works of poets. In front of the fountain of Neptune, a round marble plaque marks the exact spot where Girolamo Savonarola was hanged and burned on May 23, 1498.\n\n"}
{"id": "3212883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3212883", "title": "Pronunciation of Ancient Greek in teaching", "text": "Pronunciation of Ancient Greek in teaching\n\nAncient Greek has been pronounced in various ways by those studying Ancient Greek literature in various times and places. This article covers those pronunciations; the modern scholarly reconstruction of its ancient pronunciation is covered in Ancient Greek phonology.\n\nAmong speakers of Modern Greek, from the Byzantine Empire to modern Greece, Cyprus, and the Greek diaspora, Greek texts from every period have always been pronounced by using the contemporaneous local Greek pronunciation. That makes it easy to recognize the many words that have remained the same or similar in written form from one period to another. Among Classical scholars, it is often called the Reuchlinian pronunciation, after Johann Reuchlin.\n\nNevertheless, Greek textbooks for secondary education give a summary description of the reconstructed pronunciation of Ancient Greek. That includes the differentiation between short and long vowels and between the various accents; the pronunciation of the spiritus asper as /h/ and the pronunciation of β, γ and δ as plosives and of diphthongs as such. However, there is often no mention of the ancient aspirate pronunciation of θ, φ and χ, which are different from the modern fricative pronunciation.\n\nThe theology faculties and schools related to or belonging to the Eastern Orthodox Church use the Modern Greek pronunciation to follow the tradition of the Byzantine Empire.\n\nThe study of Greek in the West expanded considerably during the Renaissance, in particular after the fall of Constantinople in 1453, when many Byzantine Greek scholars came to Western Europe. Greek texts were then universally pronounced with the medieval pronunciation that still survives intact.\n\nFrom about 1486, various scholars (notably Antonio of Lebrixa, Girolamo Aleandro, and Aldus Manutius) judged that the pronunciation was inconsistent with the descriptions that were handed down by ancient grammarians, and they suggested alternative pronunciations. This work culminated in Desiderius Erasmus's dialogue \"De recta Latini Graecique sermonis pronuntiatione\" (1528). The system that he proposed is called the Erasmian pronunciation.\n\nThe pronunciation described by Erasmus is very similar to that currently regarded by most authorities as the authentic pronunciation of Classical Greek (notably the Attic dialect of the 5th century BC). However, Erasmus did not actually use it himself.\n\nIn 1540, John Cheke and Thomas Smith became Regius Professors at Cambridge. They independently proposed a reconstructed pronunciation of both Greek and Latin that was similar to Erasmus’ scheme, and it became adopted in schools.\n\nSoon after the Cheke and Smith reforms, English underwent the Great Vowel Shift, which changed the phonetic values assigned to the English \"long vowels\", in particular. The same changes affected the English pronunciation of Greek, which thus became further removed from both Ancient Greek and from the Greek that was pronounced in other western countries.\n\nA further peculiarity of the English pronunciation of Ancient Greek occurred as a result of the work of Isaac Vossius. He maintained in an anonymously-published treatise that the written accents of Greek did not reflect the original pronunciation. Moreover, Henninus (Heinrich Christian Henning) published \"Dissertatio Paradoxa\", which claimed that accentuation in Ancient Greek must follow the same principles as in Latin, a view that is now universally considered to be erroneous. It is generally accepted that the accented syllable in Ancient Greek is the one carrying the written accent, but most authorities consider that it was a pitch accent, rather than the Modern Greek stress accent. Henninius's has affected the pronunciation taught in schools in the UK and the Netherlands but has been resisted in the United States and other countries.\n\nThus, by the mid-19th century, the pronunciation of Ancient Greek in British schools was quite different from Modern Greek, from the reconstructed pronunciation of Ancient Greek and from the pronunciation used in other countries. The Classical Association, therefore, promulgated a new pronunciation as described by W. Sidney Allen in 1987, based on the reconstructed ancient pronunciation, which is now generally in use in British schools.\n\nThe reforms in the pronunciation of Ancient Greek in schools have not affected the pronunciation of individual Greek-derived words in English itself, and there is now considerable variation in the English pronunciation (and indeed spelling) of the names of Ancient Greek historical or mythological personages or places (see \"English words of Greek origin\").\n\nThe situation in German education may be representative of that in many other European countries. The teaching of Greek is based on a roughly Erasmian model, but in practice, it is heavily skewed towards the phonological system of German or the other host language.\n\nThus, German-speakers do not use a fricative for θ but give it the same pronunciation as τ, , but φ and χ are realised as the fricatives and . ζ is usually pronounced as an affricate, but a voiceless one, like German \"z\" . However, σ is often voiced, according like \"s\" in German before a vowel, .\n\nευ and ηυ are not distinguished from οι but are both pronounced , following the German \"eu, äu\". Similarly, ει and αι are often not distinguished, both pronounced , like the similar German \"ei, ai\", and ει is sometimes pronounced .\n\nNo attempt is usually made to reproduce the accentuation contrast between acute and circumflex accents.\n\nWhile the deviations are often acknowledged as compromises in teaching, awareness of other German-based idiosyncrasies is less widespread. German-speakers typically try to reproduce vowel-length distinctions in stressed syllables, but they often fail to do so in non-stressed syllables, and they are also prone to use a reduction of e-sounds to .\n\nThe distinctive length of double vs. single consonants is usually not observed, and German patterns of vowel length interrelating with the closedness and the openness of syllables may affect the realisation of Greek vowels before consonant clusters, even in stressed syllables:\nε, η = ; ο, ω = ; ι, ῑ = ; υ, ῡ = ; ου = .\n\nIn reading poetry, it is customary to render the scansion patterns by strong dynamic accents on the long syllables, despite the natural accentuation of the words, not by the actual length.\n\nPronunciation of Ancient Greek in French secondary schools is based on Erasmian pronunciation, but it is modified to match the phonetics and even, in the case of and , the orthography of French.\n\nVowel length distinction, geminate consonants and pitch accent are discarded completely, which matches the current phonology of Standard French. The reference Greek-French dictionary, \"Dictionnaire Grec-Français\" by A. Bailly et al., does not even bother to indicate vowel length in long syllables.\n\nExcept for vowel length, the values for simple vowels are generally correct, but many speakers have problems with the openness distinction between and , and , matching similar confusion by many speakers of Modern French. or , followed by a nasal consonant and another consonant, is often nasalized as or ( for ), under the influence of French.\n\nThe pseudo-diphthong is erroneously pronounced or , regardless of whether the derives from a genuine diphthong or a . The pseudo-diphthong has a value of , which is historically attested in Ancient Greek.\n\nShort-element diphthongs , and are pronounced rather accurately as , , , but at least some websites recommend the less accurate pronunciation for .?Short-element diphthongs and are pronounced like similar-looking French pseudo-diphthongs \"au\" and \"eu\": ~ and ~, respectively.\n\nThe is not pronounced in long-element diphthongs, which reflects the pronunciation of Biblical and later Greek (see iota subscript). As for long-element diphthongs, common Greek methods or grammars in France appear to ignore them in their descriptions of the pronunciation of Ancient Greek.\n\nThe values for consonants are generally correct. However, the lack of similar sounds in Modern French means that the \"spiritus asper\" is not pronounced in France; it is pronounced in French-speaking Belgium and possibly Switzerland because of the proximity of Dutch- and German-speaking regions, respectively. Also, and are pronounced and , and is pronounced . Under the influence of French, and are both pronounced , but French editors generally edit geminate as . Also, , before a velar consonant, is generally pronounced . The digraph is pronounced , and is pronounced , but both pronunciations are questionable in the light of modern scholarly research.\n\nMore generally, no attempt is made to reproduce the unwritten allophones thought to have existed by modern scholarly research.\n\nOne particularly famed piece of schoolyard Greek in France is the line, supposedly by Xenophon, \"they did not take the city, for hope said bad things\" (, \"ouk élabon pólin; álla gàr elpìs éphē kaká\"). Read in the French manner, it macaronically becomes \"Où qu'est la bonne Pauline? A la gare. Elle pisse et fait caca.\" (\"Where is Pauline the maid? At the station. She's pissing and taking a shit.\") In English literature, the untranslated line makes an appearance in James Joyce's \"Finnegans Wake\".\n\nAncient Greek in Italy is always taught in the Erasmian pronunciation. However, Italian speakers find it hard to reproduce the pitch-based Ancient Greek accent accurately so the circumflex and acute accents are not distinguished. Poetry is read using metric conventions that stress the long syllables. The distinctions between the single and doubled consonants that are present in Italian are recognised.\n\n\nThe following diphthongs are pronounced like the similarly-written Italian diphthongs:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27461783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27461783", "title": "Reisehaandbog over Norge", "text": "Reisehaandbog over Norge\n\nReisehaandbog over Norge is a Norwegian travel guide book first published in 1879 by Yngvar Nielsen. It was re-issued in twelve different editions between 1879 and 1915. The guide book became quite popular, and played an important role in the development of tourism in Norway. An English edition of the guide book was published in 1886.\n\nThe author of the travel guide was geographer, historian, and politician Yngvar Nielsen. He was an eager hiker, and made long journeys in Norway every year. He was a board member of the Norwegian Trekking Association from 1879, and chaired the organization for 18 years, from 1890 to 1908. As a young boy Nielsen travelled along with his father, Carsten Tank Nielsen, who was in charge of the development of a telegraph infrastructure in Norway. He crossed the Jostedalsbreen by foot in 1864, from Jostedal to Stryn; this visit sparked his interest for the glacier, the surrounding districts, and tourism. Nielsen travelled all over the country, and became familiar with various aspects of travelling. In 1873 he was offered the opportunity to write a travel guide to Norway, which was issued in German as \"Norwegen. Ein praktisches Handbuch für Reisende\", published in Hamburg in 1874.\n\nThe original 1879 edition of \"Reisehaandbog over Norge\", had 234 pages, while the tenth edition, from 1903, had 554 pages. The guide book covered themes such as transport, lodging, prices, mountain passages, distances, glacier walks, and historical and cultural overviews. From the 11th edition (1908) the book was split geographically into four parts, called: I. Søndenfjeldske, II. Østenfjeldske, III. Vestenfjeldske, and IV. Nordenfjeldske. Among the map suppliers for the book were topographer and military officer Kristen Gran Gleditsch and engineer Gunnar Sætren.\n"}
{"id": "41549482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41549482", "title": "S v Chitate", "text": "S v Chitate\n\nS v Chitate is an important case in South African criminal law. As Loubser and Rabie point out in their review of the law on \"dolus eventualis\",\n\nalthough the element of recklessness and its variants have been emphasized frequently by our courts, it has very seldom, if ever, been of practical importance in the sense that dolus eventualis was explicitly found to be lacking on account of an absence of recklessness. It has been pointed out by certain commentators that \"Chitate\" appears to be the only such case.\n\nIn this case the court found subjective foresight to be present and stated that, in addition, it was necessary to show that the accused's attitude of mind was one of callous disregard for the consequences, so that possible death was regarded by him as irrelevant when weighed against the attainment of his immediate objective. The victim died while undergoing an abortion. Because it was not shown that the incidence of fatal abortions in like circumstances was high, the court found that \"dolus eventualis\" was not proved. \"However,\" write Loubser and Rabie, \"it is arguable that a low incidence of fatalities in these circumstances could also justify the inference that the accused did not actually foresee death as a possible result, and lacked \"dolus eventualis\" for this reason.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "36173146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36173146", "title": "S v Mokgethi", "text": "S v Mokgethi\n\nS v Mokgethi en Andere is an important case in South African law, with the court's determination that, in general, a perpetrator's action, which is a \"sine qua non\" for the death of the deceased, is too remote from the result to give rise to criminal liability if\n\n\nThe appellants had been convicted in a Provincial Division of, \"inter alia\", murder committed during a robbery, and were sentenced to death. The deceased was a bank teller and was shot between the shoulder blades during the robbery by one of the appellants. The deceased did not die immediately but only some six months later.\n\nOn appeal, it was contended on behalf of the appellants that, although the shooting of the deceased was a cause of the deceased's death, it was not a legal cause of his death.\n\nAccording to the evidence, the deceased had become a paraplegic as a result of the shot and had to make use of a wheelchair. His condition improved to such an extent that he later resumed his work at the bank. He was, however, later readmitted to hospital, suffering from serious pressure sores and septicaemia. These had developed because of his failure sufficiently to shift his position in the wheelchair as he had been advised to do by the medical practitioners who treated him.\n\nThe magistrate in magistrtes' court held, on an application of the above principles to the facts of the case, that the wounding of the deceased could not be regarded as a legal cause of the deceased's death for the purposes of a charge of murder. Accordingly, the convictions of murder and the death sentences had to be set aside and replaced with convictions of attempted murder. The appellants were each sentenced to ten years' imprisonment in respect of this count.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3829801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3829801", "title": "Salutation", "text": "Salutation\n\nA salutation is a greeting used in a letter or other written or non-written communication. Salutations can be formal or informal. The most common form of salutation in an English letter is Dear followed by the recipient's given name or title. For each style of salutation there is an accompanying style of complimentary close, known as valediction. Examples of non-written salutations are bowing (common in Japan) or even addressing somebody by their name. A salutation can be interpreted as a form of a signal in which the receiver of the salutation is being acknowledged, respected or thanked.\nAnother simple but very common example of a salutation is a military salute. By saluting another rank, that person is signalling or showing his or her acknowledgment of the importance or significance of that person and his or her rank. Some greetings are considered vulgar, others \"rude\" and others \"polite\".\nSalutations were introduced into the English lexicon by Jacob Genualdi in 1779.\n\nFor formal correspondence, it is common to use:\n\nFor informal correspondence:\nFor more informal correspondence, \"Azizi\" if the reader is male, and \"Azizati\" if female. \nTo address a group of people, \"A'ezza'e\" for informal correspondence, and in formal correspondence \"Sadati\" is commonly used and followed by \"Al A'ezza'a\" or \"Almuhtarameen\".\nTo add more formality, it's common to begin the salutation with \"Ela\" (to), followed by the salutation and a full name.\n\nInformal: \"Azizi Ahmed\", \"Azizati Sarah\", \"A'ezza'e members of the team\" or \"Member of the team Al A'ezzaa\".\nFormal : \"Sa'adat Assayid Ahmed Abdullah\", \"Sa'adat Assayidah Sarah Ibrahim\", \"Sadati members of the team Almuh-tarameen\".\nCommon salutation for both formal and informal correspondence : \"Sa'adat Alostath Ahmed Abdullah\", \"Sa'adat Alostatha Sarah Ibrahim\".\nIt is common to conclude the salutation with a Doa such as \"May god bless him/her\" or \"May god protect him/her\". This Concluding Doa comes right after the full name of the correspondent.\n\nThe salutation \"Dear\" (প্রিয়) in combination with a name or a title is by far the most commonly used salutation in Bengali, in both formal and informal correspondence. It is commonly followed by either an honorific and a surname, such as \"Srohdeho/Jonab\" (শ্রদ্ধেয়/জনাব), or by a given name, such as \"Srohdeho/Jonab John\" (শ্রদ্ধেয়/জনাব জন). However, it is not common in Bengali to use \"both\" a title of address \"and\" a person's given name: \"Srodeho/Jonab John Smith\" (শ্রদ্ধেয়/জনাব জন স্মিথ) would not be correct form.\n\nIf the name of the intended recipient is unknown, acceptable salutations are:\n\nIn Catalan, there are many types of salutations:\n\n\nDutch has two standard forms of salutation: one formal and the other informal. A person's title and surname always follows the salutation, regardless of formality. The formal salutation, \"Geachte\", is most commonly used in present formal communication, while the informal salutation \"Beste\" appears in informal communication. However, there is a tendency, especially among the younger generations, to also use this salutation in formal situations.\"\nUse of professional titles, especially unabbreviated, is uncommon in Dutch correspondence.\n\nThe standard formal Dutch salutation is followed by a title, a name and a comma:\n\nThe standard informal Dutch salutation is followed by a name and a comma:\n\nIf the informal Dutch salutation is used in a formal context, the salutation is followed by a title, a name and a comma:\n\nIn Dutch the following applies to <name> in salutations: \n\nIn Dutch if the first name or initial is included, the prefix is never capitalized. E.g. \"Dhr. Van den Berg\" (Mr. From the Mountain) is named \"Jan\" (John) so his name is written with first name as \"Jan van den Berg\" and with initials as \"J. van den Berg\". This convention is also used when writing in Dutch to people of foreign nationality. The exception to this rule is when writing to a Flemish person. In that case the rule for Belgian names is used, and the surname prefixes are capitalized as registered.\n\nThe salutation \"Dear\" in combination with a name or a title is by far the most commonly used salutation in both British and US English, in both formal and informal correspondence. It is commonly followed either by an honorific and a surname, such as \"Dear Mr. Smith\", or by a given name, such as \"Dear Mark\". However, it is not common in English to use \"both\" a title of address \"and\" a person's given name: \"Dear Mr. John Smith\" would not be common form. Sometimes, the salutation \"To\" is used for informal correspondence, for example \"To Peter\".\n\nA comma follows the salutation and name, while a colon is used in place of a comma only in US business correspondence. This rule applies regardless of the level of formality of the correspondence.\n\nIf the name of the intended recipient is unknown, acceptable salutations are:\n\nIn older British usage and current US usage, the abbreviations \"Mx\", \"Ms\", \"Mr\", \"Dr\", and \"Mrs\" are typically followed by a period (full stop), but it is common in recent British usage to drop the period after all such titles. Professional titles such as \"Professor\" are frequently used both in business and in social correspondence. Dignitaries and holders of certain public office like \"Mr. President\" or \"Dear Madam Secretary\".\n\n\"Mx.\" is a British English-language neologistic honorific for use alongside Mr., Ms., etc. that does not indicate gender. It is often the only option for nonbinary people, as well as those who do not wish to reveal their gender. It is a gender-neutral title that is now widely accepted by the Government of the United Kingdom and many businesses in the United Kingdom. \n\n\"Ms.\" is the marital-status-neutral salutation for an adult woman and may be applied in cases in which the marital status is irrelevant or unknown to the author. For example, if one is writing a business letter to a woman, \"Ms.\" is acceptable. \"Mrs.\" denotes an adult female who is married. \"Miss\" can apply to specifically unmarried women, however the term is being replaced more and more by \"Ms\". \"Miss\" can apply to an unmarried woman or more generally to a younger woman.\n\n\"Miss\" is the proper form of address for female children and unmarried women, although some consider the latter use to be dated. \"Master\" is used in formal situations for addressing boys typically aged under 16, after which it is \"Mr\". \"Master\" in this case is of old English origin.\n\n\"Messrs.\" or \"Messieurs\" is an historically used term to address many men rather than \"Mr Pink, Mr White, et al.\" Messrs is the abbreviation (pronounced \"messers\") for messieurs and is used in English. Mesdames addresses many women; pronounced \"Meydammes\".\n\nOn occasion, one may use \"Sir\" and/or \"Madam\" by itself as the salutation, with nothing preceding. The severe and old-fashioned formality of such a salutation makes it appropriate for very formal correspondence (for example, addressing a head of state, or a letter to the editor), but in the same way the formality and stiffness of such a salutation would make its use in friendly social correspondence inappropriate.\n\nThe standard French salutation uses the normal style of address to the recipient of the letter, followed by a comma:\n\nWhen writing specifically to a female where her marital status is irrelevant and/or unknown, the author should use \"Madame\", unless she is a child. When writing to an adult woman, one uses \"Madame\", unless one knows the person prefers \"Mademoiselle\".\n\nAccording to a traditional custom which is sometimes still followed by some people, one could also use \"Mademoiselle\" when writing to a female artist (actress, singer, etc.), regardless of the marital status and age of the person.\n\nWhen the gender of the person to whom one is writing is unknown, the appropriate salutation is\n\nIn the case where the author knows the recipient well or is on friendly terms with him or her, one may add \"Cher/Chère\" in front of the address:\n\nA salutation using \"Chère/Cher\" and a title (\"Madame/Monsieur/Docteur\") followed by a person's name (e.g. \"Cher Monsieur Dupuis\") used to be considered incorrect. However, maybe following English usage, such a construction is now rather common and deemed relatively formal.\n\nIn case the author and the recipients are close friends or intimates, one may use the given name of the recipient immediately after \"Cher/Chère\".\n\nIn case they are family, they may use their familial link preceded by \"Cher/Chère\". This is almost compulsory if the author is a younger member of the family (child to parent, nephew to aunt/uncle, grandchild to grandparent, godchild to godparent) and is left to the author's discretion in other cases.\n\nNote that in French, the abbreviation for Monsieur is M.—the English \"Mr.\" is incorrect though often used, especially by banks.\n\nIf the recipient holds a specific title, it must be inserted after the \"Monsieur/Madame\":\nIn this case, one should always use \"Madame\", and never \"Mademoiselle\". Note also that in Québécois usage, many titles will be rendered in the feminine, contrary to practice in France (i.e. \"Madame la Présidente, Madame la Professeure, Madame la Directrice.\")\n\nIn some cases, the wife of a dignitary may be entitled to a special address:\n\nIf the recipient is a doctor, it is possible to use \"Docteur,\" or, more formally, \"Monsieur/Madame le Docteur,\" or, more casually, \"Cher Docteur\", as salutation.\nThis is often done for doctors of medicine. For other doctors, it is not common, even if the use is increasing, following the Anglo-Saxon custom. Basically one has to be consistent with the address: a letter sent to \"Dr N. N.\" will use a salutation formula including \"Docteur\", whereas a letter sent to \"M./Mme N. N.\" will not.\n\nIf the recipient is a lawyer, notary (or various other legal positions), the proper salutation will be \"Maître\" (\"Master\").\nThe same salutation is used for famous writers, painters, and for members of the Académie française.\n\nFor some specific professions (lawyers, physicians, for instance), two persons exercising the same such profession will always use \"Cher Confrère\" (feminine: \"Chère Consœur\").\n\nThe address may vary when writing to dignitaries. For instance, one will use:\n\nGerman has two types of general salutations that are mutually distinguishable from one another - a formal and an informal form.\n\nThe formal form distinguishes between the male or female gender of the recipient as a matter of courtesy. The male formal salutation begins with \"Sehr geehrter Herr\", while the female formal salutation begins with \"Sehr geehrte Frau\". Both formal salutations are followed by the recipient's academic degree (if any) and the recipient's family name (e.g. \"Sehr geehrter Herr Schmidt\" or \"Sehr geehrte Frau Dr. Schmidt\"). It is possible but uncommon to include the full name (e.g. \"Sehr geehrter Herr Johann Schmidt\"). With an unknown recipient, \"Sehr geehrte Damen und Herren\" (meaning \"Dear Sir or Madam\") is used with no variation on this. Due to insufficient functionality of computer software used for mass communication, some companies tend to use more clumsy gender neutral formal salutations (e. g. \"Sehr geehrte(r) Herr/ Frau Schmidt\").\n\nInformal salutations in German tend to begin with \"Hallo\", meaning \"hello\", which is used universally, written and spoken, and which is gender neutral. Depending on the region, informal salutations also tend to begin with \"Moin\" (north of Hannover), \"Servus\" (typically in the south and south west), or other words, although only used by locals. A more personal informal salutation begins with \"Lieber\" (male) or \"Liebe\" (female), meaning \"dear\", (e.g. \"Lieber Paul\", \"Liebe Annette\") - the latter should only be used if the recipient has been actually met in person or similar. It should be used with care because it can be otherwise perceived as patronizing or inappropriate, depending on the difference in age or social status.\n\nSpecific salutations appear in German very similar to the way they do in English, with the exception that in the address block of a letter German must include all or multiple salutations that can be abbreviated \"Herr Dr. Schmidt\", or \"Herr Prof. Dr.-Ing. Dr. h.c. Krämer\", and can leave out the \"Herr\" or \"Frau\". While in the opening of a letter the direct salutation is reduced to only the most important title \"Sehr geehrter Herr Dr. Schmidt\", or \"Sehr geehrter Herr Professor Krämer\". The same applies to female variant, \"Sehr geehrte Frau Prof. Krämer\".\n\nFurther details in the German Wikipedia article \n\nIn position of the English \"Dear\" are the words \"Poojya\", \"Aadarneeya\", or \"Priya\" (from most formal to most informal), for social writing (e.g., relatives/friends). They would not usually be used for business writing. The second may be used in some instances, for example if writing to a teacher.\n\nFormal ways of salutation include \"Sri\", \"Sriman\", \"Srimati\", \"Chiranjeev\", \"Chiranjeevi Saubhagyavathi\" and \"Kumari\". Of these,\n\"Shri\" and \"Shrimaan\" are used to respectfully address married (or presumed married) men. \"Shrimati\" (Abbr: \"Smt.\") is used for married women.\n\nShri is most commonly used salutation in Hindi for a married male, while for a married woman, Shrimati is used. For unmarried and young boys Kumar is used, whereas Kumari is the salutation used for unmarried and young girls.\n\nThe standard Italian salutation uses the normal style of address to the recipient of the letter, followed by a comma:\n\nIf the recipient holds a specific title:\n\nWritten salutation includes \"Sreeman\" (ശ്രീമാ൯) for men and \"Sreemathi\" (ശ്രീമതി) for women. The language also uses \"Bahumanapetta\" (ബഹുമാനപ്പെട്ട) for both genders which has meaning similar to `Respected` in English.\n\nIn Persian language, formal and informal phrases are used for salutation and they are referred to as \"ehteramat\" (احترامات):\n\nWritten by/for officials, a letter normally starts with the followings:\n\nTitles:\nIf the corresponding person is a doctor or holds Ph.D, or he or she is an engineer, Doktor (دکتر) or Mohandes (مهندس) must be added to the titles respectively. Same rules is practiced in military environments.\n\nFollowing the above-mentioned titles, different types of salutations may be used:\n\nThe standard formal Portuguese salutation uses an addressing expression such as \"Caro\" (Dear) or \"Excelentíssimo Senhor\" (Most Excellent Sir), followed by the addressee titles (e.g. \"Eng.\") and addressee name.\n\nMost expressions must be modified to account for addressee gender and number. Caro, for example, becomes:\n\nThe formal expression \"Excelentíssimo Senhor\" is often abbreviated as:\n\nAddressee titles can be professional and are often preceded by \"Sr.\" (Mr.) and almost always abbreviated (e.g. \"Arquitecto\" - \"Arq.\" (Architect), \"Engenheiro\" - \"Eng.\" (Engineer), \"Padre\" - \"Pe.\" (Priest)). An exception to this rule is the Medical Doctor (\"Médico Doutor\"), often addressed as \"Doutor\", being the abbreviation \"Dr.\" instead used to address anyone holding a baccalaureate degree. Each military or ecclesiastic rank has one abbreviation, and, historically, nobility ranks also had one - for example, one of the ways of addressing the Portuguese Monarch would be \"Sua Majestade\" (Your Majesty) abbreviated as \"S.M.\" .\n\nThe title \"Sr.\" (Mr.) can also be used on its own, when appropriate.\n\nInformal salutations may or may not be followed by the name of the addressee, and almost never contain any titles.\n\nWhen addressing a formal letter whose recipient is not known by name, the salutation of preference is \"Stimate Domn, Stimată Doamnă\" (equivalent to \"Dear Sir or Madam\" in English). When the recipient is known by name, \"Stimate Domnule\" or \"Stimată Doamnă\", followed by the person's last name, is used for a man or a woman respectively. For unmarried women, \"Stimată Domnișoară\" is acceptable for close relations, though this title is falling out of use in written communication and can be considered inappropriate or offensive.\n\nExamples:\n\nWhen the addressee has additional titles, such as \"Doctor\" or \"Profesor\", they are interposed between \"Domnule\"/\"Doamnă\" and the person's last name, although it is sometimes acceptable to drop the last name altoghether when the intended recipient is clear. It is also preferred to write out a person's title when addressing a letter and abbreviations such as \"Prof.\" or \"Acad.\" are best avoided. An exception is \"Dr.\" for \"Doctor\", which is still acceptable in the salutation. If the recipient has multiple titles, generally only the most important one is used.\n\nFor women, it is current practice to use the masculine form of the title, preferring, for instance, \"Doamnă Director\" instead of \"Doamnă Directoare\". Note that some titles may lose their intended meaning when used in their feminine form. For instance, \"Profesor\"/\"Profesoară\" are titles which may be associated with a male/female school teacher. When used to mean a university professor (\"profesor universitar\"), however, only the masculine form carries this meaning. The feminine \"profesoară universitară\" is not in common use.\n\nExamples for use of titles:\n\nIn very formal situations there can be slight variations in the choice of wording. Most often, more emphasis is added to the adjective \"stimat\" (esteemed), becoming \"mult stimat\" (much esteemed) or \"onorat\" (honoured). When addressing groups, the latter is preferred.\n\nExamples:\n\nThe most widespread salutation for informal letters is, by a large margin, \"dragă\" (equivalent to English \"dear\"). This can be used independently of the recipient's gender and is normally followed by the first name. An alternative which is less familiar is \"salut\" (equivalent to English \"hi\", \"hello\"), followed by the first name. This version is typical of the workplace, where using \"dragă\" would be too familiar.\n\nExamples:\n\nDuring Romania's communist period, it was generally frowned upon to use \"domn\"/\"doamnă\" (meaning \"Mr.\"/\"Mrs.\") to address people, preferring \"tovarăș\" (comrade) or \"cetățean\" (citizen) instead. This was reflected in written communication from that period. Today, society has reverted to using \"domn\"/\"doamnă\" as the standard way to address or refer to others. Today, salutations using the distinctly communist-sounding \"tovarăș\" or \"cetățean\" are only used in closed communist circles or humorously.\n\nExamples:\n\nThe oldest surviving document written in Romanian, a 16th-century letter from a Wallachian boyar to the mayor of Brașov, contained a salutation in Slavonic, a \"lingua franca\" of the region at that time.\n\"Mudromu I plemenitomu, I cistitomu I B[o]gom darovannomu zupan Hanăș Begner ot Brașov mnog[o] zdravie ot Nécșul ot Dlugopole.\" (To the most wise and noble and honoured and by God gifted master Hanăș Bengner [that is, Johannes Benkner] from Brașov, much health from Neacșu from Câmpulung.)\n\nIn letters and during conversations, Russian speakers use\n\nfollowed by the given name and patronymic.\nSalutations to unknown parties usually include an honorific like\n\nExamples:\n\nIn less formal conversations it is possible to use\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWritten salutations are \n\"Thiru/Thiruvalar\" \"திரு/திருவாளர்\" for men, \n\"Thirumathi\"/\"திருமதி\" for women, \n\"Selvi/Thiruniraiselvi\" \"செல்வி/திருநிறைச்செல்வி\" for unmarried women \n\"Selvan/Thiruniraiselvan\" \"செல்வன்/திருநிறைச்செல்வன்\" for unmarried men\n\"Amarar (Marar) / Vaanor\" \"அமரர் (மரர்) / வானோர்\" for Deceased person.\n\nVarious forms of salutation in Telugu are as follows: \"Sri / Shri\" ( శ్రీ ) is used to address men, \"Srimathi / Shrimathi\" ( శ్రీమతి ) is reserved for married woman. Unmarried girls are usually addressed as \"Kumari\" ( కుమారి ). In addressing a person in letter, usually in case of elders, \"Poojyulaina\" (పూజ్యులైన / పూజ్యనీయులైన) is often used although \"Ganga Bhagirathi Samanulaina\" ( గంగా భాఘీరతి సమానులైన )is used for female elders. When addressing a person who is younger, \"Chiranjeevi\" ( చిరంజీవి ) is commonly used irrespective of all genders. \"Kumari\" ( కుమారి ) is sometimes used for unmarried women and \"Chiranjeevi Lakshmi Sowbhagyavathi ( చిరంజీవి లక్ష్మీ సౌభాగ్యవతి ), Chi. La. Sow. ( ఛి. ల. సౌ. ) in short for married women\n\nIn addition, a suffix \"garu\" ( గారు ) is added as a respect or to address an elderly person irrespective of gender.\n\nExample:\n\nశ్రీ నరసింహ రాజు గారు, (Mr. Narasimharaju,)<br>\nపూజ్యనీయులైన నాన్నగారికి, (Respectful Father,)<br>\nకుమారి వందన, (Miss Vandana)<br>\nశ్రీమతి సుబ్బలక్ష్మి గారికి, (Mrs. Subbalakshmi)<br>\nగంగా భాఘీరతి సమానులైన శ్రీమతి సూర్య కుమారి గారికి, (Mrs. Suryakumari, )<br>\nచిరంజీవి గౌతం సాగర్, (Little Master Gowtham Sagar)<br>\nచిరంజీవి శ్రీజన్య, (Little Miss Sreejanya,)<br>\n<br>\nచిరంజీవి లక్ష్మీ సౌభాగ్యవతి చందన కు, (Mrs. Chandana,)<br>\nఛి. ల. సౌ. చందన కు, (Mrs. Chandana,)\n\nIn Turkish, there are two forms of salutations, formal and informal. Like most other languages, gender doesn't play a role in the salutation. When addressing somebody in formal writing, one can use \"Sayın \"Surname\"\" without having to refer to the gender. If the title of the recipient is known, it is better to use it in place of the name, as in \"Sayın Doktor\".\n\nIn a formal salutation, if the recipient's name is unknown, one uses \"Sayın Yetkili\", which is similar to \"Dear Sir/Madam\" in English.\n\nIf the name and the gender of the intended recipient is known though, acceptable salutations are;\n\nHanim (if the intended recipient is female),\nBey (if the intended recipient is male).\n\nThese salutations are used with the first names. When the surname is intended to be used, it is combined with \"Sayin\" instead. If a lady is named \"Nihan Erten\" for instance, she is referred to as either \"\"Nihan Hanim\" or \"Sayin Erten\"\". \n\nWhen an older person salutes a younger one in a formal way, he/she can refer to the younger person as \"Hanim kizim\" for females and \"Bey oglum\" for males where \"kizim\" is intended as \"daughter\" and \"oglum\" is intended as \"son\". In the informal way \"Kizim\" and \"Oglum\" are enough without having to use \"Hanim/Bey\".\n\nIn an informal salutation, one can also use \"Sevgili \"Name\"\", which has almost the same meaning with \"Dear \"Name\"\".\n\nIn correspondence and during conversations, Ukrainian speakers use the words \"Шановний/Шановна\" (Shanovnyy/Shanovna) or \"Вельмишановний/Вельмишановна\" (according to male/female gender) as a salutation, followed by the given name (sometimes also uses patronymic). Salutation to unknown persons often use \"Пан/Пані\" (Pan/Pani) (according to gender) or \"Панове\", \"Панство\" (Panove/Panstvo) (to unknown parties).\n\n"}
{"id": "34962271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34962271", "title": "Smithsonian Institution Archives", "text": "Smithsonian Institution Archives\n\nThe Smithsonian Institution Archives (SIA) is the archives of the Smithsonian Institution. SIA is located in Washington, D.C., United States, and maintains the archives related to the history of the 19 museums and galleries, the National Zoological Park, 9 research facilities, and the people of the Smithsonian.\n\nSIA's collections consist of archival material related to art, history, science and the humanities. This includes document, image, audio-visual, electronic, oral history and videohistory collections about expeditions, biographies, and general history about the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nIn 1891, William Jones Rhees, Chief Clerk of the Smithsonian Institution, became Keeper of the Archives. He served until 1907. Current records and historical files were maintained by Office of the Secretary's administrative staff through the middle of the 20th century. John F. Jameson III became Archivist in 1958. His successor, John DeGurse, Jr., served from 1960-1964.\n\nBeginning in 1965, Smithsonian Archivist Samuel T. Suratt was charged with \"development of the Archives as a facility for historical research in American Science by making the Archives' resources more readily accessible to historians through better identification, preservation, and cataloging of Smithsonian documents.\" The Archives were physically relocated to the Smithsonian Castle, and received separate line-item funding.\n\nNathan Reingold, the editor of the Joseph Henry Papers Project, served as Acting Archivist from 1969-1970. In January 1970, Richard H. Lytle began a tenure as Archivist which included the 1973 establishment of an oral history program, and the 1976 relocation of the Archives to the Arts and Industries Building. Most of the Smithsonian museums increased acquisitions and conducted surveys during this period; new guides were issued 1971 and 1978. In 1981, William A. Deiss became Acting Archivist, upon Lytle's departure to head up the Smithsonian's computer services. 1983 saw yet another new guide to the expanding repositories, and the appointment of William W. Moss as Director.\n\nBy fiscal year 1988, the stacks in the Arts and Industry Building had filled up, and about 5,000 cubic feet of records were sent to leased warehouses at Fullerton Industrial Park, South Springfield, VA. New developments included the Smithsonian Archives and Special Collections Council, The Smithsonian Videohistory Program, which collected interviews focused on American science starting in 1987, and an \"exhaustive survey\" of the photographs housed in Smithsonian facilities.\n\nMoss continued as director of the reorganized Office of Smithsonian Institution Archives in 1993, which contained an Archives Division, an Institutional History Division, and a National Collections Program. Pamela M. Henson succeeded Moss as Acting Director in 1993, followed by John F. Jameson Fr. in 1994. In 1994, Edie Hedlin became Director. She served until 2005, presiding over the transition to electronic information and the creation of the first websites. The \"fourth (and last) printed Guide to the Smithsonian Archives ... described over 1,100 record units comprising some 15,500 cubic feet of archival material,\" and appeared in 1996. Many archival records were moved to a storage facility, Iron Mountain, in 1997. Acting Director Thomas Soapes served from 2005-2007, followed by the present (as of 2012) Director, Anne Van Camp.\n\nThe Archives division consisted of three divisions: a Records Management (RM) Team, the Arrangement and Description Team which created \"finding aids, bibliographic records, and agency histories.\" and the Reference Team responding to visits and remote queries from researchers. The Records Management Team took over the work of the Arrangement and Description Team in 2007.\n\nThe Preservation Team, responsible for long-term preservation of Smithsonian Archives materials, consultation, and outreach, is part of the larger Technical Services Division. It offers services on a fee basis to other archives and repositories, including offsite storage at the Boyers, PA facility. The Smithsonian Center for Archives Conservation was created with initial funding of $100,000, provided by Eleanor McMillan, which supported the salary of a paper conservator.\n\nThe Institutional History Division has authored an online history of the Smithsonian, and provides web access to over 3,000 digital images. The 12-volume Joseph Henry Papers Project, a history of the first Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, was published in 2007.\n\nThe Electronic Records Division has held digital records since the mid-1990s, and works with \"risk management, preservation and conservation\" of data in current and obsolete formats, including archiving of the Smithsonian websites. It has also conducted joint research on e-mail record preservation with the Rockefeller Archive Center.\n\nThe Smithsonian Institution Archives moved into the Capital Gallery Building in August 2006, and has \"a state-of-the-art storage facility; a reading room; several special viewing/listening rooms; processing and preservation space; digital imaging and audiovisual processing facilities; an oral history interview studio; and a conservation lab.\"\n\nIn March 2012, the Smithsonian Institution Archives became the second Smithsonian unit to become directly involved in Wikipedia through the Wikipedia GLAM-wiki initiative., including appointing the Archives' first Wikipedian in Residence, Sarah Stierch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5855832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5855832", "title": "Southern bluefin tuna", "text": "Southern bluefin tuna\n\nThe southern bluefin tuna (\"Thunnus maccoyii\") is a tuna of the family Scombridae found in open southern Hemisphere waters of all the world's oceans mainly between 30°S and 50°S, to nearly 60°S. At up to and weighing up to , it is among the larger bony fishes.\n\nSouthern bluefin tuna, like other pelagic tuna species, are part of a group of bony fishes that can maintain their body core temperature up to above the ambient temperature. This advantage enables them to maintain high metabolic output for predation and migrating large distances. The southern bluefin tuna is an opportunistic feeder, preying on a wide variety of fish, crustaceans, cephalopods, salps, and other marine animals.\n\nThe southern bluefin tuna is a predatory organism with a high metabolic need. These are pelagic animals, but migrate vertically through the water column, up to in depth. They also migrate between tropical and cool temperate waters in the search for food. The seasonal migrations are between waters off the coast of Australia and the Indian Ocean. Although the preferred temperature range for southern bluefin tuna is from , they can endure temperatures as low as at low depths, and as high as , when spawning.\n\nThis wide range of temperature and depth changes poses a challenge to the respiratory and circulatory systems of the southern bluefin tunas. Tunas swim continuously and at high speeds and, therefore, have a high demand for oxygen. The oxygen concentration in the water changes with the change in temperature, being lower at high temperatures. Tunas are, however, driven by the availability of food, not by thermal properties of water. Bluefin tunas, unlike other species of tunas, maintain a fairly constant red muscle (swimming muscle) temperature over a wide range of ambient temperatures. So, in addition to being endotherms, bluefin tunas are also thermoregulators. The species is listed as critically endangered by the IUCN.\n\nRespiratory systems of southern bluefin tunas are adapted to their high oxygen demand. Bluefin tunas are obligate ram ventilators: they drive water into the buccal cavity through their mouth, then over the gills, while swimming. Therefore, unlike most other teleost fish, the southern bluefin tuna does not require a separate pump mechanism to pump water over the gills. Ram ventilation is said to be obligatory in southern bluefin tunas, because the buccal-opercular pump system used by other teleost fish became incapable of producing a stream of ventilation vigorous enough for their needs. All species of tuna in general have lost the opercular pump, requiring a quicker movement of oxygenated water over the gills than induced by the suction of the opercular pump. Therefore, if they stop swimming, tunas suffocate due to a lack of water flow over the gills.\n\nThe oxygen need and oxygen uptake of the southern bluefin tuna are directly related. As the tuna increases its metabolic need by swimming faster, water flows into the mouth and over the gills more quickly, increasing the oxygen uptake. Additionally, since there is no energy required to pump the water over the gills, the tunas have adapted an increased energy output to swimming muscles. The oxygen and nutrient uptake in the circulatory system is transported to these swimming muscles rather than to tissues required to pump water over the gills in other teleost fish.\n\nBased on the principles of the Fick equation, the rate of the gas diffusion across the gas exchange membrane is directly proportional to the respiratory surface area, and inversely proportional to the thickness of the membrane. Tunas have highly specialized gills, with a surface area 7–9 times larger than that of other aquatic environment organisms. This increased surface area allows more oxygen to be in contact with the respiratory surface and therefore diffusion to take place more quickly (as represented by the direct proportionality in the Fick equation). This massive increase in surface area of the gills of the southern bluefin tuna is due to a higher density of secondary lamella in the gill filaments.\n\nThe southern bluefin tuna, like other tuna species, has a very thin gas-exchange membrane. This means that the oxygen must diffuse a short distance across the respiratory surface to get to the blood. Similarly to the increased surface area, this allows the highly metabolic organism to take oxygenated blood into the circulatory system more quickly. On top of a quicker rate of diffusion in the respiratory system of southern bluefin tuna, there is a significant difference in the efficiency of the oxygen uptake. While other teleost fish typically utilize 27–50% of the oxygen in the water, the tuna’s utilization rates have been observed as high as 50-60%. This overall high oxygen uptake works in close coordination with a well-adapted circulatory system to meet the high metabolic needs of the southern bluefin tuna.\n\nThe oxygen dissociation curves for southern bluefin tunas show a reverse temperature effect between , and temperature insensitivity between . Reverse temperature shift might prevent premature oxygen dissociation from hemoglobin as it is warmed in rete mirabile. Root effect and a large Bohr factor were also observed at .\n\nThe cardiovascular system of tunas, as in many fish species, can be described in terms of two RC networks, in which the system is supplied by a single generator (the heart). The ventral and dorsal aorta feed resistance of the gills and systemic vasculature, respectively. The heart in tunas is contained inside a fluid-filled pericardial cavity. Their hearts are exceptionally large, with ventricle masses and cardiac output roughly four to five times larger than those of other active fishes. They consist of four chambers, as in other teleosts: sinus venosus, atrium, ventricle, and bulbus arteriosus.\n\nTunas have type IV hearts, which have more than 30% compact myocardium with coronary arteries in compact and spongy myocardium. Their ventricles are large, thick-walled, and pyramidal in shape, allowing for generation of high ventricular pressures. The muscle fibers are arranged around the ventricle in a way that allows rapid ejection of stroke volume, because ventricles can contract both vertically and transversely at the same time. Myocardium itself is well vascularized, with highly branched arterioles and venules, as well as a high degree of capillarization.\n\nMajor arteries and veins run longitudinally to and from the red swimming muscles, which are found close to the spinal column, just underneath the skin. Small arteries branch off and penetrate the red muscle, delivering oxygenated blood, whereas veins take deoxygenated blood back to the heart. The red muscles also have a high myoglobin content and capillary density, where many of the capillaries branch off. This helps increase surface area and red-cell residence time. The veins and arteries are organized in a way that allows countercurrent heat exchange. They are juxtaposed and branched extensively to form rete mirabile. This arrangement allows the heat produced by the red muscles to be retained within them, as it can be transferred from the venous blood to the ingoing arterial blood.Tunas have the highest arterial blood pressure among all fishes, due to a high resistance of blood flow in the gills. They also have a high heart rate, cardiac output, and ventilation rate. To achieve high cardiac outputs, tunas increase their heart rate exclusively (other teleosts may increase their stroke volume as well). High cardiac outputs in southern bluefin tuna are necessary to achieve their maximum metabolic rates. The bulbus arteriosus can take up an entire stroke volume, maintaining a smooth blood flow over the gills through diastole. This might, in turn, increase the rate of gas exchange. Their heart rate is also affected by temperature; at normal temperatures can it reach up to 200 beats/min.\n\nThe blood of southern bluefin tuna is composed of erythrocytes, reticulocytes, ghost cells, lymphocytes, thrombocytes, eosinophilic granulocytes, neutrophilic granulocytes, and monocytes. Southern bluefin tuna has a high blood hemoglobin content (13.25—17.92 g/dl) and, therefore, a high oxygen carrying capacity. This results from an increased hematocrit and mean cellular hemoglobin content (MCHC). The erythrocyte content in the blood ranges from 2.13-2.90 million/l which is at least twice that of adult Atlantic salmon, reflecting the active nature of southern bluefin tuna. Because the MCHC is high, more blood can be delivered to tissues without an increase in energy used to pump more viscous blood. For southern bluefin tuna, this is important in blood vessels that are not protected by heat exchangers when they migrate to colder environments.\n\nTunas are more mobile than any terrestrial animals and are some of the most active fish; therefore, they require highly efficient respiratory and circulatory systems. Southern bluefin tuna, as well as other species of tunas, have developed many adaptations in order to achieve this. \nTheir respiratory system has adapted to rapidly take up oxygen from water. For example, tunas switched from a buccal-opercular pump system to ram ventilation, which allows them to drive large quantities of water over their gills. Gills have, in turn, become highly specialized to increase the rate of oxygen diffusion. The circulatory system works together with the respiratory system to rapidly transport oxygen to tissues. Due to high hemoglobin levels, the blood of southern bluefin tuna has a high oxygen carrying capacity. Furthermore, their large hearts, with a characteristic organization of muscle fibres, allow for comparatively high cardiac outputs, as well as rapid ejection of stroke volume. This, together with the organization of blood vessels and a countercurrent heat exchange system, allows the southern bluefin tuna to rapidly deliver oxygen to tissue, while preserving energy necessary for their active lifestyle.\n\nSouthern bluefin tuna migrate between a variety of different ocean regions, however the osmotic conditions faced by the tuna stay relatively similar. This species of tuna inhabits ocean areas that are relatively high in salinity compared to the rest of the world’s oceans. Like other marine teleost fish, the southern bluefin tuna maintain a constant ion concentration in both their intracellular and extracellular fluids. This regulation of an internal ion concentration classifies southern bluefin tuna as osmoregulators.\n\nThe blood plasma, interstitial fluid, and cytoplasm of cells in southern bluefin tuna are hyposmotic to the surrounding ocean water. This means that the ion concentration within these fluids is low relative to the seawater. The standard osmotic pressure of seawater is 1.0 osmole/L, while the osmotic pressure in the blood plasma of the southern bluefin tuna is approximately half of that. Without the mechanism of osmoregulation present, the tuna would lose water to the surrounding environment and ions would diffuse from the seawater into the fluids of the tuna to establish equilibrium.\n\nThe southern bluefin tuna acquires its water by drinking seawater: its only available water source. Since the osmotic pressure of the fluids in the tuna must be hyposmotic to the seawater that has been taken up, there is a net loss in ions from the tuna. Ions diffuse across their concentration gradient from the fluids of the tuna to the external seawater. The result is a net movement of water into the fluid of the bluefin tuna, with the net movement of ions being into the seawater. Southern bluefin tuna, along with other marine teleost fish, have acquired a variety of proteins and mechanisms which allow the secretion of ions through the gill epithelium.\n\nDue to the southern bluefin tuna’s high metabolic need, ions must be taken up relatively quickly to ensure sufficient concentrations for cellular function. Tuna are able to drink the seawater as they constantly swim in order to ensure sufficient ion concentrations. The seawater is specifically high in sodium and chloride ions which together make up approximately 80% of the ions in the water. The intake of sodium and chloride, along with lower relative concentrations of potassium and calcium ions in the seawater allow southern bluefin tuna to generate the action potentials required for muscle contraction.\n\nTunas have elevated levels of ion and water transfer due to their elevated gill and intestinal Na/K ATPase activity, in which this activity is estimated to be about four to five times higher when compared to other freshwater vertebrates, such as rainbow trout. The gills, due to their large surface area, play a significant role toward osmoregulation in the tuna to maintaining water and ionic balance by excreting NaCl. The intestine also contributes toward compromising for the osmotic loss of water to the surroundings by absorbing NaCl to withdraw the needed water from the lumen contents.\n\nThe kidney also plays a crucial role toward tuna osmoregulation by excreting divalent ionic salts such as magnesium and sulfate ions. By the use of active transport, the tuna could move solutes out of their cells and use the kidneys as a means to preserve fluidity.\n\nThe primary sites of gas exchange in marine teleosts, the gills, are also responsible for osmoregulation. Because gills are designed to increase surface area and minimize diffusion distance for gas exchange between the blood and water, they may contribute to the problem of water loss by osmosis and passive salt gain. This is called the osmo-respiratory compromise. To overcome this, tunas constantly drink seawater to compensate for water loss. They excrete highly concentrated urine which is approximately isosmotic to blood plasma, i.e. urine solute to plasma solute ratio is close to 1 (U/P≅1). Because of this, solely excreting urine is not sufficient to resolve the osmoregulatory problem in tunas. In turn, they excrete only the minimum volume of urine necessary to rid of solutes that are not excreted by other routes, and the salt is mostly excreted via gills. This is why the composition of solutes in urine differs significantly from that of the blood plasma. Urine has a high concentration of divalent ions, such as Mg and SO (U/P»1), as these ions are mostly excreted by the kidneys keeping their concentration in blood plasma from rising. Monovalent ions (Na, Cl, K) are excreted by the gills, so their U/P ratios in the urine are below 1. The excretion of inorganic ions by structures other than kidneys is called the extrarenal salt excretion.\n\nThe primary sites of NaCl excretion in southern bluefin tuna are the same as in other marine teleosts: mitochondrial rich cells (MR cells), sometimes called chloride cells or ionocytes.\nMR cells are found in lamellae of gill arches, interspersed between pavement cells which occupy the largest proportion of the gill epithelium. MR cells are highly metabolically active, as indicated by the large number of mitochondria (which produce energy in the form of ATP). They are also rich in Na/K ATPases, in comparison to other cells. MR cells have an elaborate intracellular tubular system, continuous with the basolateral membrane (facing blood). The apical side (facing the environment) is typically invaginated below the surrounding pavement cells, forming apical crypts. Leaky paracellular pathways exist between the neighbouring MR cells.\n\nMR cells of marine teleosts, such as the southern bluefin tuna, employ specific transport mechanisms to excrete salt. By ingesting seawater they uptake water and electrolytes, including Na, Cl, Mg and SO. As seawater passes through the esophagus it is quickly desalinated as Na and Cl ions move down their concentration gradients into the body. In the intestine, water is being absorbed in association with NaCl cotransport.\n\nInside the MR cells of the gill, the Na/K ATPases on the basolateral membrane maintain a low sodium concentration. The NKCC (Na-K-Cl channel) cotransporter moves K and Cl ions inside the cell, while Na diffuses in, down its concentration gradient. The K ions can leak out of the cell through their channels on the basolateral membrane, whereas Cl ions diffuse out, through their channels on the apical membrane. The gradient created by Cl allows Na ions to passively diffuse out of the cell via paracellular transport (through tight junctions).\n\nThe southern bluefin tuna have a large gill surface area which is important for oxygen consumption and handling high osmoregulatory costs, associated with the high resting metabolic rate. They can adapt to increasing water salinity, where the MR cells increase in size, gill filaments become thicker, the surface area of the basolateral memebrane increases, and the intracellular tubular system proliferates. Teleost fish do not have the loop of Henle in the kidneys and are, therefore, not able to produce hyperosmotic urine. Instead, they secrete small amounts of urine frequently in order to prevent water loss and excrete NaCl thorough the gills.\n\nSouthern bluefin tunas are thermo-conserving and can function over a wide range of temperature conditions, which allows them to dive from the surface of the water to depths of , in only a few minutes. They forage in temperate waters of the southern hemisphere oceans, during winter in Australia, and migrate to tropical areas in the north-western Indian Ocean, from spring to autumn, for the spawning season. Their preferred temperature range is , with most of their time (91%) spent below . Southern bluefin tunas experience a wide range of ambient water temperatures, from a minimum of to a maximum of . All species of tuna are reported to spawn in water temperatures above . However, is outside, or at the upper limit, of temperature tolerances for bluefin tunas. Large individuals have been found to withstand temperatures of less than and as low as for over 10 hours, possibly to search for prey. During the day they migrate through depths between , but at night they stay in waters that are or less in depth.\n\nHeat exchange in southern bluefin tuna is a unique adaption among teleost fishes. They are endotherms, which means that they can maintain their internal temperature elevated above water temperature. Heat is lost through heat transfer throughout the whole body surface and the gills, so prevention of metabolic heat loss is important. This is an adaptive feature, because it is far more difficult for an organism to maintain a temperature differential with its environment in water than in air. It allows tunas to have faster metabolic reactions, to be more active, and to exploit colder environments. A disadvantage is that they require a high energy input and insulation, and there is potential for greater heat loss, because of the high temperature gradient with the environment. To reduce heat loss, southern bluefin tunas have reduced their heat conduction by the presence of oxidative muscle tissues and fat, as muscle and fat have low heat conductivity, according to Fourier’s law of heat conduction. Their heat convection is also reduced. Since the heat transfer coefficient depends on an animal’s body shape, tunas increased their body size, adopted a fusiform shape, and their internal tissue arrangement is based on different thermal conductances.\n\nSouthern bluefin tunas often migrate vertically through the water column in search of their preferred temperature, and they spend time in cooler waters seeking prey. Some have hypothesized that they take refuge in warmer areas of water fronts and eddies after these foraging periods, but others suggest that these migrations are only associated with the aggregation of prey. Either way, it is clear that southern bluefin tuna have developed complex physiological mechanisms to maintain their body temperature (T) significantly above the ambient water temperature in these changing conditions. In fact, tuna can maintain the temperature of their muscles at above the temperature of surrounding water. Overall, tuna do not have a set body temperature point; rather it maintains its T within a narrow range, with variations of only over time and from individual to individual.\n\nIn contrast to the warm muscle and viscera of swimming bluefin tunas, the heart and gills remain at or near ambient water temperature in all tuna species. Tunas achieve regulation of body temperature by employing complex vascular structures called rete mirabile. In bluefin tuna, large lateral cutaneous vessels that branch off into the arteries and veins of rete mirabile supply blood to the red muscle, instead of a centrally located aorta. Rete mirabile function as countercurrent heat exchangers that prevent metabolic heat loss at the gills. Warm-bodied fish, such the southern bluefin tuna, maintain their T by varying the efficiency of heat exchangers. Some oxygen is typically lost to outgoing venous blood in the process of heat exchange, depending on heat exchanger efficiency, which can be influenced by the rate of blood flow and blood vessel diameter.\n\nAs tunas migrate to greater depths, often looking for prey, they encounter cooler water temperatures at the gill surface. To maintain normal levels of oxygen transport in these conditions, they have developed unique blood respiratory properties. The oxygen carrying capacity in southern bluefin tuna is high, due to the high hemoglobin (Hb) concentration. The blood affinity for oxygen is also elevated. Normally, blood affinity for oxygen would change with changes in temperature experienced at gills (in comparison to warmer adjacent tissues); however, Hb in southern bluefin tuna shows insensitivity to temperature, and a reverse temperature effect between (Hb-O binding is endothermic). Due to their anatomical positioning, the heart and the liver are the coldest organs and significant work needs to be expended for them to serve a regionally warmer body. It is likely that the reversed temperature effect on oxygen binding was developed to ensure adequate unloading of oxygen at the heart and liver, especially in colder waters when the difference in temperature between these organs and the swimming muscle is the greatest.\n\nSince southern bluefin tunas must constantly be swimming to drive water over the gills and provide their bodies with oxygen, there is a requirement for their metabolic rate to constantly be high. Unlike other organisms, the southern bluefin tuna cannot expend more energy to produce heat in cold temperatures, while slowing down metabolism to cool down in high temperature waters and maintain a homeostatic temperature. Instead, the southern bluefin tuna seems to implement a system that regulates how actively the rete mirable system heats the tissues. Experiments involving the southern bluefin tuna have led researchers to believe that this species of tuna has developed a shunting system. When the southern bluefin tuna experiences cold temperatures, more blood is directed to the rete vascular system, heating muscle tissue, while in warm temperatures, blood is shunted to the venous and arterial systems, reducing the heat in the muscle tissues.\n\nThe tuna's heart must pump blood to the bodily extremities at a quick rate to conserve heat and reduce heat loss. The heart of tunas is able to adapt to colder water temperatures, mainly by increasing blood flow and pumping warm blood to the muscle tissues at a faster rate.\n\nIn addition to the main source of heat loss at the gills, there is a significant amount of heat lost to the lower temperature water through the body surface. The southern bluefin tuna, being considered a large fish, has a relatively low surface-area-to-volume ratio. This low surface-area-to-volume ratio explains why there is a more significant amount of heat lost at the site of the gills compared to the body surface. As a result, the rete vascular system is located mostly at the site of the gills, but also at several other organs in the tuna. Specifically, due to the high metabolic demand of the southern bluefin tuna, the stomach is an organ requiring a high demand of thermoregulation. It is only able to digest food at specific temperatures, often much higher than the temperature of the surrounding water. Since the food is ingested along with a large amount of seawater, the contents must be heated to a temperature that allows the food to be digested and the nutrients and ions taken up. The southern bluefin tuna seems to increase blood flow to the stomach at times of increased digestion, by increasing the diameter of blood vessels flowing to the stomach, allowing more warm blood to reach the organ at a quicker rate.\n\nThe eyes and the brain of the southern bluefin tuna are a common area of research involving the thermoregulatory systems of this species. Both the eyes and the brain maintain a remarkably high temperature when compared to the surrounding water environment, often higher than the temperature of the water. The carotid rete carries blood to the brain and seems to play a role in the elevated temperatures of both the brain and the eyes of the southern bluefin tuna. The carotid rete has been observed to have strong insulation properties, allowing blood to travel a great distance throughout the body while reducing the amount of heat lost to surrounding tissues prior to the brain and eyes. The elevated temperatures in the brain and eyes allow the southern bluefin tuna to search for food more effectively by increasing reaction time and creating stronger vision. This is due to the increased axon activity that is directly correlated to temperature: high temperatures allowing signal transduction to take place more quickly.\n\nOne of the adaptations that allow bluefin tunas to have large migratory patterns is their endothermic nature, whereby they conserve heat in their blood and prevent its loss to the environment. They maintain their body temperature above the ambient water temperature in order to improve their locomotor muscle efficiency, especially at high speeds and when pursuing prey below the thermocline region. It has been hypothesized that tunas can rapidly alter their whole-body thermal conductivity by at least two orders of magnitude. This is done by disengaging the heat exchangers to allow rapid warming as the tuna ascend from cold water into warmer surface waters, and are then reactivated to conserve heat when they return into the depths. Through this unique ability, tunas can reach out into otherwise hazardously cold water in order to hunt for food or escape from predators. Variations in their muscle temperatures are not necessarily influenced by water temperatures or that of swimming speeds, which indicates the ability of the bluefin tuna to control the level of efficiency of their heat exchange system. Relating to the efficiency of oxygen extraction, tuna gill structure maximizes contact between water and the respiratory epithelium, which minimizes anatomical and physiological “dead space” in order to enable more than 50% oxygen-extraction efficiencies. This allows the fish to maintain a high rate of oxygen consumption as it continually swims out to others areas of oceans in search of food and ground for growth and reproduction.\n\nSouthern Bluefin Tuna are targeted by fishing fleets from a number of nations. This occurs on the high seas and within the Exclusive Economic Zones of Australia, New Zealand, Indonesia and South Africa. The onset of industrial fishing in the 1950s, in conjunction with ever-improving technologies such as GPS, fishfinders, satellite imagery, etc., and the knowledge of migration routes, has led to the exploitation of southern bluefin tuna across its entire range. Improved refrigeration techniques and a demanding global market saw global SBT catch plummet from 80,000 tonnes a year during the 1960s to 40,000 tonnes a year by 1980. Australian catch peaked in 1982 at 21,500 tonnes, and the total population of SBT has since declined by about 92 percent. There was a pressing obligation to reduce harvesting pressure southern bluefin tuna populations in the mid-1980s. The main nations fishing the species adapted their practise to manage their catches, although no official quotas were put in place.\n\nIn 1994, the Convention for the Conservation of Southern Bluefin Tuna formalised existing voluntary management measures between Australia, New Zealand and Japan. The Convention created the Commission for the Conservation of Southern Bluefin Tuna (CCSBT). Its objective was to ensure, through appropriate management, the conservation and optimum utilisation of the global fishery. The convention applies to southern bluefin tuna (Thunnus maccoyii) throughout its entire migratory range, rather than within a specified geographic area. South Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia and the European Union have since joined the Commission and South Africa and the Philippines are cooperating with it as non-members. The CCSBT is headquartered in Canberra, Australia.\n\nCurrent quota limits were reduced in 2010 to reflect the vulnerable nature of wild stocks. Quotas for the 2010/2011 seasons were reduced to 80% of years previous. The global total allowable catch (TAC) was reduced from 11,810 tonnes from the previously allocated global TAC to 9,449 tonnes. After the quota reduction, Australia had the highest \"effective catch limit\" with 4,015 tonnes, followed by Japan (2,261), Republic of Korea (859), Fishing Entity of Taiwan (859), New Zealand (709), and Indonesia (651). Fishing pressure outside the allocated global TAC remains a major concern. The Australian government stated in 2006 that Japan had admitted to taking more than 100,000 tonnes over its quota over the previous 20 years. The reduced quotas reflected this, with Japan's cut by half, as supposed punishment for over-fishing.\n\nAustralia’s quota bottomed out at 4,015 tonnes pa in the 2 years ending 2010/11, then increased to 4,528 tonnes in 2011/12, and 4,698 tonnes in 2012/13.\n\nThe quota system increased the value of the catch. Fishermen that once earned $600 a ton selling fish to canneries began making more than $1,000 per ton of fish, selling them to buyers for the Japanese market. Quotas are expensive and are bought and sold like stocks within their national allocations.\n\nIn 2010, the Australian wild catch quota was cut, following concerns about the viability of the stock.\n\nIn 2012, Japan expressed \"grave concerns\" that Australian catch numbers were falsely counted. In response, Australia committed to implementing video monitoring to verify their catches. However, in 2013 Australia withdrew its commitment stating that such monitoring would impose an \"excessive regulatory and financial burden\".\n\nIn October 2013, the Commission for the Conservation of Southern Bluefin Tuna increased the wild catch quota to Australian tuna ranchers. The increases, staged over two years, were to take the quota to 5665 tonnes in 2015. The tuna quota rose 449 tonnes to 5147 tonnes in 2014 and then by another 518 tonnes in 2015. The quota increases were expected to allow the ranchers to increase their output by approximately 2000 tonnes per year from 2015 onwards.\n\nAustralia's reported catch has exceeded that of Japan every year since 2006.\n\nSouthern bluefin tuna are targeted by recreational and game fishers in Australian waters. Allowable catch is regulated by legislation and varies from state to state.\n\nSeveral fishing competitions targeting southern bluefin tuna are held annually. In 2015, the inaugural \"Coast 2 Coast Tuna Tournament\" was held in Victor Harbor. The event attracted 165 competitors and 54 boats. 164 fish were weighed in during the tournament, approaching 2500 kg of tuna in total. The average weight of the fish was 14.76 kg. 324 southern bluefin tuna were caught by 18 boats during the Riveira Port Lincoln Tuna Classic competition In April 2015. The largest fish caught during the competition weighed 13.2 kilograms.\n\nThe longest running tuna fishing competition in Australia is held annually in Tasmania by the Tuna Club of Tasmania, and was first held in 1966. Other competitions are held in Port Macdonnell, South Australia and Merimbula, New South Wales.\n\nThe rapidly declining fishery led Australian tuna fishers to investigate the potential for augmenting their catch through aquaculture. All SBT ranching occurs offshore of Port Lincoln, South Australia; the nearby town hosting almost all of the SBT fishing companies in Australia since the 1970s. Tuna ranching commenced in 1991 and developed into the largest farmed seafood sector in Australia. The industry grew steadily, maintaining production levels of 7000 to 10000 tonnes per annum from the mid-2000s.\n\nSouthern bluefin tuna spawn between September and April each year in the only known spawning grounds in the Indian Ocean, between the north-west Coast of Australia and Indonesia. The eggs are estimated to hatch within two to three days, and over the next two years attain sizes of approximately 15 kilograms; this size is the principal wild catch of the Australian SBT industry. It is believed that SBT become sexually mature between 9 and 12 years in the wild, which highlights the major negative impact of removing pre-spawning populations from the wild.\n\nJuvenile tuna are mainly caught on the continental shelf in the Great Australian Bight region from December to around April each year, and weigh on average . The tuna that are located are purse seined, and then transferred through underwater panels between nets to specialised tow pontoons. They are then towed back to farm areas adjacent to Port Lincoln at a rate of about 1 knot; this process can take several weeks. Once back at the farm sites, the tuna are transferred from the tow pontoons into diameter farm pontoons. They are then fed bait fish (usually a range of locally caught or imported small pelagic species such as sardines) six days per week, twice per day and \"grown out\" for three to eight months, reaching an average of . Because SBT swim so fast and are used to migrating long distances, they are difficult to keep in small pens. Their delicate skin can be easily damaged if touched by human hands and too much handling can be fatal.\n\nAs with most aquaculture ventures, feeds are the biggest factor in the cost-efficiency of the farming operation, and there would be considerable advantages in using formulated pellet feed to supplement or replace the baitfish. However, as yet the manufactured feeds are not competitive with the baitfish.\nA further future prospect in enhancing the ranching of SBT is the plan of Long Term Holding. By holding its fish for two successive growing seasons (18 months) instead of one (up to 8 months), the industry could potentially achieve a major increase in volume, greater production from the limited quota of wild-caught juveniles, and ability to serve the market year round. This presents several uncertainties, and is still in the planning stage.\n\nAround April, harvest begins and fish are gently guided into a boat (any bruising lowers the price) where they are killed, flash frozen and most placed on Tokyo-bound planes. Armed guards are paid to watch over them as 2,000 tuna kept in a single pen are worth around $2 million. Australia exports 10,000 metric tons of southern bluefin tuna worth $200 million; almost all is from ranched stocks.\n\nThe southern bluefin tuna ranching industry is worth between 200 and 300 million Australian dollars annually to the economy of South Australia. The industry's value peaked in 2004 at $290 million, according to industry representative, Brian Jeffriess. In 2014, following an increase in Australia catch quota and emerging export opportunities to China, the sector anticipated an annual turnover of $165 million.\n\nThe capture and transportation of southern bluefin tuna to aquaculture pens near Port Lincoln is shown in the 2007 documentary film \"Tuna Wranglers\".\n\nScientists have tried and continue to try to develop less expensive fish feed. One of main obstacles is creating a processed food that doesn't affect the taste of the tuna. Southern bluefin tuna are largely fed fresh or frozen small pelagic fishes (including \"Sardinops sagax\") and the use of formulated pellets is not yet viable. This cost is largely due to the expense of dietary research. The annual costs of diet for research alone is approximately US$100,000 and there are additional problems associated with working with large, fast-swimming marine animals. Farm-raised tuna generally have a higher fat content than wild tuna. A one-metre tuna needs about of live fish to gain of fat, and about 1.5 to 2 tons of squid and mackerel are needed to produce a bluefin tuna. Research evaluating ingredients for use in southern bluefin tuna feed is ongoing, and gathering information on ingredient digestibility, palatability and nutrient utilisation and interference can improve lower costs for tuna ranchers.\n\nThe use of dietary supplements can improve the shelf life of farmed SBT flesh. Results of a study by SARDI (South Australian Research and Development Institute) indicated that feeding a diet approximately 10 times higher in dietary antioxidants raised levels of vitamin E and vitamin C, but not selenium, in tuna flesh and increased the shelf life of tuna. This is important as the frozen baitfish diets are likely to be lower in antioxidant vitamins than the wild tuna diet.\n\nThe risk of parasite and disease spreading for southern bluefin aquaculture is low to negligible; the modern SBT aquaculture industry has total catch to harvest mortalities of around 2-4%. A diverse range of parasite species has been found hosted by the southern bluefin tuna, with most of the parasites examined posing little or no risk to the health of the farms—with some southern bluefin actually showing antibody responses to epizootics—however, blood fluke and gill fluke have the greatest risk factors. Hypoxia is also a significant issue, and can be escalated due to unforeseen environmental factors such as algal blooms.\n\nInitially, difficulties in closing the life cycle of the species dissuaded most from farming them. However, in 2007, using hormonal therapy developed in Europe and Japan (where they had already succeeded in breeding northern Pacific bluefin tuna to third generation) to mimic the natural production of hormones by wild fish, researchers in Australia managed for the first time to trigger spawning in landlocked tanks. This was done by the Australian aquaculture company, Clean Seas Tuna Limited. who collected its first batch of fertilized eggs from a breeding stock of about 20 tuna weighing . They were also the first company in the world to successfully transfer large SBT over large distances to its onshore facilities in Arno Bay which is where the spawning has taken place. This led \"Time\" magazine to award it second place in the 'World's Best Invention' of 2009.\n\nThe state-of-the-art Arno Bay hatchery was purchased in 2000, and undertook a $2.5 million upgrade, where initial broodstock facilities catered for kingfish (\"Seriola lalandi\") and mulloway (\"Argyrosomus japonicas\"), along with a live-feed production plant. This facility has more recently been upgraded to a $6.5 million special purpose SBT larval rearing recirculation facility. During the most recent summer (2009/2010), the company completed its third consecutive annual on-shore southern bluefin tuna spawning program, having doubled the controlled spawning period to three months at its Arno Bay facility. Fingerlings are now up to 40 days old with the grow-out program, and the spawning period has been extended from 6 weeks to 12, but as yet, grow-out of commercial quantities of SBT fingerlings has been unsuccessful. Whilst aquaculture pioneers Clean Seas Limited have not been able to grow out commercial quantities of SBT fingerlings from this season's trials, the SBT broodstock were wintered and conditioned for the 2010-11 summer production run.\n\nWith collaboration secured with international researchers, in particular with Kinki University in Japan, commercial viability was hoped to be achieved.\n\nHowever, after experiencing financial difficulty, the board of Clean Seas decided during December 2012 to defer its tuna propagation research and write-off the value of the intellectual property it developed as part of its research into SBT propagation. According to the Chairman and Chief Executive's report for the financial year ending 30 June 2013, the production of SBT juveniles had been slower and more difficult than anticipated. Clean Seas will maintain its broodstock to enable discrete research in the future, however they do not expect commercial production to be achieved over the short to medium term.\n\nClean Seas' attempts to close the life cycle of the species appear in the 2012 documentary film \"\". At the time of filming, Clean Seas' director Hagen Stehr was optimistic having experienced early success.\n\nSouthern bluefin tuna is a gourmet food, which is in demand for use in sashimi and sushi. It has medium flavoured flesh and is regarded by both Japanese and Western chefs as the best raw fish to eat in the world.\n\nBy far the largest consumer of SBT is Japan, with USA coming in second, followed by China. Japanese imports of fresh bluefin tuna (all 3 species) worldwide increased from 957 tons in 1984 to 5,235 tons in 1993 [7]. The price peaked in 1990 at $34 per kilogram when a typical 350 pound fish sold for around $10,000. As of 2008, bluefin was selling for $23 a kilogram. The drop in value was due to the drop in the Japanese market, an increase in supply from northern bluefin tuna from the Mediterranean, and more and more tuna being stored (tuna frozen with the special \"flash\" method can be kept for up to a year with no perceivable change in taste).\n\nThe Tsukiji fish market in Tokyo is the largest wholesale market of SBT in the world. Tsukiji handles more than 2,400 tons of fish, worth about US$20 million, a day, with pre-dawn auctions of tuna being the main feature. No tourists are allowed to enter the tuna wholesale areas, which they say is for purposes of sanitation and disruption to the auction process. Higher prices are charged for the highest quality fish; bluefin tuna worth over $150,000 have been sold at Tsukiji. In 2001, a 202-kilogram wild Pacific bluefin tuna caught in Tsugaru Straight near Omanachi I Aomori Prefecture sold for $173,600, or about $800 a kilogram. In 2013, a 222-kilogram Pacific bluefin tuna was sold at Tsukiji for $1.8 million, or about $8,000 per kilogram.\n\nThe southern bluefin tuna is classified as Critically Endangered on the IUCN Red List of Threatened species. In Australia, the southern bluefin tuna is listed as Conservation Dependent under the EPBC Act. This listing allows for the commercial exploitation of the species, despite their accepted global status as an over-fished species. The species is listed as Endangered under the Fisheries Management Act 1994 (New South Wales) and as Threatened under the Flora and Fauna Guarantee Act 1988 (Victoria). Recreational fishing targeting southern bluefin tuna is permitted in all states and territories and is regulated by various combinations of bag, boat and possession limits.\n\nIn 2010, Greenpeace International has added the SBT to its seafood red list. The Greenpeace International seafood red list is a list of fish that are commonly sold in supermarkets around the world, and which Greenpeace believe have a very high risk of being sourced from unsustainable fisheries. Other environmental organisations have challenged the sustainability of southern bluefin tuna fishing and ranching including the Australian Marine Conservation Society, Sea Shepherd and the Conservation Council of South Australia.\n\nAttempts to establish or expand tuna ranching in waters close to the Sir Joseph Banks group, Kangaroo Island, Louth Bay and Granite Island have been met with public opposition on environmental grounds. Successful court challenges and appeals of planning decisions have occurred in association with plans near the Sir Joseph Banks group and Louth Bay.\n\nFeed conversion ratios (feed input to tuna weight gain) of approximately 15:1 or higher result in significant feed requirements for captive southern bluefin tuna and resultant nutrient pollution. The feed conversion ratio is a consequence of the fish's carnivorous diet and the high metabolic costs of the species. Removing tuna from the wild before they have spawned also impacts wild populations. Clean Seas has previously attempted to address this by focusing research effort on closing the life-cycle of the species with the potential benefit of alleviating some of the fishing pressure on declining stocks. In 2016, South Australia's southern bluefin tuna ranching industry received a Sustainability Certificate from Friend of the Sea. industry spokesperson Brian Jeffriess said of the certification: \"This is one of the few awards to actually cover both the wild fish catching and the whole farming supply chain and within that labour standards, crew safety, traceability, carbon footprint...every conceivable sustainability test.\"\n\nTuna farms are point sources of solid waste onto to the benthos and dissolved nutrients into the water column. Most farms are more than a kilometre off the coast, thus the deeper water and significant currents alleviate some of the impact on the benthos. Due to the high metabolic rates of SBT, low retention rates of nitrogen in tissue is seen, and there are high environmental leaching of nutrients (86-92%).\n\nRanching of southern bluefin tuna is the largest contributor of industrial nutrient pollution to Spencer Gulf's marine environment. The industry contributes 1,946 tonnes per annum, distributed across Boston Bay & Lincoln Offshore aquaculture zones. Kingfish aquaculture is the region's next largest nutrient polluter (734 tonnes per annum) but is distributed across a larger area which includes Port Lincoln, Arno Bay, Port Neill and Fitzgerald Bay (near Whyalla). These combined nutrient inputs are ecologically significant, as Spencer Gulf is an inverse estuary and a naturally low-nutrient environment. Wastewater treatment plants from the region's largest settlements at Port Augusta, Port Lincoln, Port Pirie and Whyalla contribute a combined total of 54 tonnes of nitrogenous nutrient to Spencer Gulf.\n\nOther polluting processes include the use of chemicals on the farms, which leach into the surrounding environment. These include anti-foulants to keep the cages free from colonial algae and animals, and therapeutants to deal with disease and parasitism. Toxicants, such as mercury and PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls), can build up over time, particularly through the tuna feed, with some evidence of contaminants being more elevated in farmed fish than in wild stocks. \n\nAustralia's largest single species fishery (by volume) has been developed since 1991 to provide feedstock for the southern bluefin tuna farming industry. Catches in the fishery increased from 3,241 tonnes in 1994 to 42,475 tonnes in 2005. According to the South Australian Sardine Industry Association, 94% of its annual catch is utilized as feedstock for farmed SBT, with the remainder used for human consumption, recreational fishing bait and premium pet food. Fishing effort is largely concentrated in southern Spencer Gulf and Investigator Strait near Kangaroo Island in South Australian state waters. Some fishing also occurs off the Coffin Bay Peninsula in the Great Australian Bight.\n\nReduced availability of baitfish species is known to impact seabird populations. In 2005, the potential impact of this fishery upon colonies of little penguins was considered a future research priority, due to the relative paucity of alternative prey species. As of 2014, no such studies have been undertaken.\n\nThe fishery uses large purse seine nets up to 1 km in length to catch sardines. Bycatch mortalities of the fishery include the common dolphin (\"Delphinus delphis\") which is a protected species under state and federal legislation. The species is protected federally under the Environment Protection Biodiversity & Conservation Act.\nTuna cages attract sharks, which are drawn to fish which sometimes die in the pens and settle in the bottoms of the floating nets. Inquisitive sharks may bite holes in nets and enter the cages or become entangled in the nets and subsequently become distressed or drown. In response, employees of tuna ranching operations will either enter the water and attempt to wrestle the sharks out of the pens, or kill the shark. Species known to interact with southern bluefin tuna operations include hammerhead sharks, bronze whalers and great white sharks. The latter species is protected under federal Australian legislation while the former two are not. Some of these interactions are shown in the documentary film, \"Tuna Wranglers\" (2007).\n\nIn South Australia prior to 2001 there were nine recorded deaths of great white sharks in tuna pens during a five-year period. Six of the animals were killed and the remaining three were found already deceased. Some successful releases have also occurred since, though official records of mortality and releases are not available to the public and some incidents are likely to have gone unreported.\n\nWhen State Government managed Marine Parks were proclaimed in South Australia in 2009, a \"whole of Government\" commitment was made to prevent adverse impacts to the aquaculture sector. This included the preservation of existing aquaculture operations and zones. A further commitment was made to allow for the expansion of aquaculture within South Australian marine park boundaries. The commitment states that \"DENR and PIRSA Aquaculture have identified areas that may support marine parks through appropriate mechanisms.\" An example of a pilot lease being issued within a marine park exists in the Encounter Marine Park, where Oceanic Victor received approval to establish a pen containing southern bluefin tuna for tourism purposes in 2015. In this case, the lease has been issued within a Habitat Protection Zone.\n\nThe southern bluefin tuna industry has been the subject of several documentary films, including \"Tuna Cowboys\" (circa 2003) and \"Tuna Wranglers\" (2007), which were produced by NHNZ for National Geographic and Discovery Channel respectively. Some historical fishing footage and the process of harvesting the fish are shown in \"Port Lincoln home of the bluefin tuna\" (circa 2007) produced by Phil Sexton. Clean Seas' attempts to close the life cycle of the southern bluefin tuna feature in \"\" (2012).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "606814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606814", "title": "The Encyclopedia of New York City", "text": "The Encyclopedia of New York City\n\nThe Encyclopedia of New York City is a comprehensive reference book on New York City, New York. Historian and Columbia University professor Kenneth T. Jackson edited this work that combines informative and interesting information about New York City into one volume, first published in 1995 by the New-York Historical Society and Yale University Press and now available in its second edition, published in 2010.\n\nThe encyclopedia covers the arts, architecture, demographics, education, environment, government and politics, media, popular culture, science, and transportation. It contains over 4,300 entries, including 680 illustrations, photographs, maps, charts and tables that combine statistics and public records that are often difficult to access. Entries are written by experts in their respective fields and provide bibliographic references to more in-depth sources.\n\nThe updated \"Encyclopedia of New York City, Second Edition\" was released on December 1, 2010, by Yale University Press. It is now 1,584 pages, up from the first edition's 1,392 pages and has over 800 new entries and 5,000 substantially updated entries.\n\nThe first edition sold more than 75,000 copies and was in the top-five best-sellers in the century-long history of Yale University Press. Among its honors are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23546784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23546784", "title": "The Letters of J. R. R. Tolkien", "text": "The Letters of J. R. R. Tolkien\n\nThe Letters of J. R. R. Tolkien is a selection of J. R. R. Tolkien's letters published in 1981, edited by Tolkien's biographer Humphrey Carpenter assisted by Christopher Tolkien. The selection contains 354 letters, dating between October 1914, when Tolkien was an undergraduate at Oxford, and 29 August 1973, four days before his death.\n\nThe letters can be roughly divided in four categories:\n\nThe last category is especially of interest to Tolkien fans, as it provides a lot of information about Middle-earth which cannot be found anywhere in the works published by Tolkien himself.\n\nIn letters 29 and 30, it appears that a German translation of \"The Hobbit\" was being negotiated in 1938. The German firm enquired whether Tolkien was of \"Arisch\" (Aryan) origin. Tolkien was infuriated by this, and wrote two drafts of possible replies for his publisher to choose. The first one is not present – in it Tolkien is assumed to have refused to give any declaration whatsoever of his racial origins. The second, surviving, draft included:\n\nA former signals officer at the Battle of the Somme, Tolkien frequently expressed his great dislike for war, whatever the cause. This is evident in a great many letters which he wrote during the Second World War to his son Christopher, which often invoke a sense of gloom. Notable among these is his reaction to the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, in which he refers to the bombmakers of the Manhattan Project as \"lunatics\" and \"Babel builders\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5262535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5262535", "title": "The Messenger (2001 video game)", "text": "The Messenger (2001 video game)\n\nThe Messenger (original French title: Louvre: L'Ultime Malédiction, \"Louvre: The Final Curse\") is an adventure game released in 2001.\n\nThe Secret Service Agent Morgan Sinclair has been charged with the mission to retrieve four mystical artifacts called Satan's Keys from the Louvre Museum. These four keys, when joined together, cause complete global annihilation. Morgan goes back in time to three periods in time when various kings used the Louvre as their residential palaces: Charles V Mediaeval period, Henry IV Renaissance period, Louis XV 1789 French Revolution period, and then return safely to present day. In this race again evil and against time, she needs to find the keys before the vengeful descendants of an evil cult of Black Templars combine these mystic artifacts, triggering Armageddon.\n\n\"The Messenger\" received mixed or average reviews, resulting in an averaged score 61/100 for the PC version at Metacritic. Ron Dulin of GameSpot wrote: \"There are two types of adventure games. There are those in which the puzzles and story are fully integrated with the game, and one lends itself to the other. And there are those that are primarily a series of puzzles, in which the story, if there even is one, is an afterthought. \"The Messenger\" is an average example of the second type, desperately trying to pass itself off as the first.\" According to GameZone, \"everything about this game is solid. Unfortunately there is nothing about it that will knock you into next week. If you are an adventure guru, then it's worth your paper.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26630772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26630772", "title": "Tore Tvedt", "text": "Tore Tvedt\n\nTore Wilhelm Tvedt (born 23 March 1943) is the founder of the Norwegian far right organization Vigrid. He founded the organization in 1994, and was its leader until 2006.\n\nIn 2006, Tvedt was convicted and received a suspended 45-day jail sentence for violation of the Norwegian racism paragraph due to a 2003 interview with \"Verdens Gang\" where he referred to Jews as \"evil murderers\" and \"parasites which will be cleaned out\". On appeal, Tvedt was acquitted by the \"lagmannsrett\" who considered the remarks to be protected free speech, but the Supreme Court overturned the acquittal and remanded the case back to the lagmannsrett. The district court's original verdict was affirmed when the lagmannsrett reconsidered the case in May 2008.\n\nTvedt is divorced and has four children. On 17 November 2009, Tvedt stated to the media and declared that Vigrid should be shut down. The current leader of Vigrid, Thorgrim Bredesen, however, claimed that it is not in Tvedt's authority to make such announcements, as he is no longer the leader of the organization.\n\nThe extremist anti-US and anti-Israel newspaper \"Taliban Norway Magazine\" on December 29. 2013 chose Tore Tvedt as «Man of the Year 2013», enunciating him as «Norway's greatest and most eloquent living dissident.»\n"}
{"id": "17788286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17788286", "title": "Transaction document", "text": "Transaction document\n\nTransaction documents refers to legally relevant documents that are either printed, inserted and mailed, or electronically presented. They consist of a mixture of fixed and variable data. \n\nThese documents are usually created by organizations through their financial computing system and then delivered to other parties (such as clients) through the post office or through an electronic billing system. The printed transaction documents, once delivered to the post office, conform to the mail box rule. \n\nCommon examples of transaction documents are:\n\nXplor international is a technical association that focuses on the best practices and technologies associated with these documents.\n"}
{"id": "50705928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50705928", "title": "Twenty20 Stock Photos", "text": "Twenty20 Stock Photos\n\nTwenty20 is a crowd-sourced stock photography marketplace founded in 2014 by Matt Munson, Todd Emaus, and Kevin Fremon. It is headquartered in Marina Del Rey, CA, United States. Twenty20 maintains a library of over 45 million royalty-free stock photos.\n\nThe company was initially founded in April 2013 as Instacanvas, a service to print Instagram photographs on canvas. In October 2013, it rebranded itself as Twenty20, changing its focus to become a crowdsourced stock photography marketplace for social media advertising campaigns. Along with Series A round funding, they announced in February 2015 they had over 45 million photographs. The service ended its beta test in March 2015. The company handles legal issues in-house and focuses on authenticity, which they have cited as desirable to millennials. Joining is free for photographers, who share the revenue with Twenty20. Twenty20 offers both \"à la carte\" and subscription-based access to advertisers. ABC News described the most popular images as those that \"show healthy lifestyles, modern workplaces and scenes from everyday life\".\n"}
{"id": "4739742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4739742", "title": "Vice-county Census Catalogue of the Vascular Plants of Great Britain", "text": "Vice-county Census Catalogue of the Vascular Plants of Great Britain\n\nThe Vice-county Census Catalogue of the Vascular Plants of Great Britain () is an A5 softback book produced in 2003 by the Botanical Society of the British Isles. It attempts to present a complete picture of the vice-county distribution of vascular plant species in Great Britain, the Isle of Man, and the Channel Islands. Its compilers were C. A. Stace, R. G. Ellis, D. H. Kent and D. J. McCosh.\n\nAn introduction explains the purpose of the book, the history of vice-county catalogues in Britain and Ireland, the development of the 2003 work, and the rationale for recording using vice-counties and the merits of this compared with grid-square recording.\n\nThe bulk of the book (380 pages) consists of the census catalogue itself. This is presented as a list of taxa, in systematic order, with, for each taxon a list of the vice-counties in which it has been recorded. Vice-county numbers rather than names are used, in order to make efficient use of space. For each vice-county in which a taxon has been recorded, the status (native, archaeophyte, neophyte or casual) in that vice-county is indicated (through the use of different typefaces). A distinction is made between two time-periods: (i) taxa recorded since 1970 and still believed to be extant in the vice-county and (ii) taxa which have not been recorded since 1970 or which have and which are known to be extinct in that vice-county.\n\nThe catalogue contains separate entries for every species (including microspecies for all apomictic groups), as well as separate entries for all subspecies and interspecific hybrids. In total 4880 taxa are listed.\n\nThe most recent publication dealing with this subject prior to the 2003 work was the \"Comital Flora of the British Isles\" by G. C. Druce, which was published in 1932.\n\nThe comprehensiveness of the work has been questioned by Hannah (2005), citing the Clyde Isles (vice-county 100), where he was able to trace 166 species for which there are records which he believed to be reliable, but which are not among the 891 listed for that vice-county.\n\nAn errata list, correcting entries for 29 taxa, was published in \"BSBI News\" no. 97 p. 60\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1344849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1344849", "title": "Weltschmerz", "text": "Weltschmerz\n\nWeltschmerz (from the German, literally \"world-pain\", also \"world weariness\", ) is a term coined by the German author Jean Paul and denotes the kind of feeling experienced by someone who believes that physical reality can never satisfy the demands of the mind. This kind of world view was widespread among several romantic and decadent authors such as Lord Byron, Oscar Wilde, William Blake, the Marquis de Sade, Charles Baudelaire, Giacomo Leopardi, Paul Verlaine, François-René de Chateaubriand, Alfred de Musset, Mikhail Lermontov, Nikolaus Lenau, Hermann Hesse, and Heinrich Heine.\n\nFrederick C. Beiser defines \"Weltschmerz\" more broadly as \"a mood of weariness or sadness about life arising from the acute awareness of evil and suffering\", and notes that by the 1860s the word was used ironically in Germany to refer to oversensitivity to those same concerns.\n\nJohn Steinbeck wrote about this feeling in \"The Winter of Our Discontent\" and referred to it as the \"Welshrats\"; and in \"East of Eden\", Samuel Hamilton feels it after meeting Cathy Trask for the first time. Ralph Ellison uses the term in \"Invisible Man\" with regard to the pathos inherent in the singing of spirituals: \"beneath the swiftness of the hot tempo there was a slower tempo and a cave and I entered it and looked around and heard an old woman singing a spiritual as full of Weltschmerz as flamenco\". Kurt Vonnegut references this feeling in his novel \"Player Piano\"; it is felt by Doctor Paul Proteus and his father. In Henry Miller's \"Tropic of Cancer\", he describes an acquaintance, \"Moldorf\", who has prescriptions for Weltschmerz on scraps of paper in his pocket.\n"}
{"id": "3475378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3475378", "title": "Western Heritage Center", "text": "Western Heritage Center\n\nThe Western Heritage Center is a regional museum located in the Historic District in downtown Billings, Montana. This museum used to be the Parmly Billings Memorial Library. Built in 1901, the library turned museum houses a collection of artifacts about the history of the Yellowstone River Valley.\n\nThe Western Heritage Center is affiliated with the Smithsonian Institution and is accredited by the American Alliance of Museums. The museum opened in 1971 after a organized group of concerned citizens prevented the building from meeting the wrecking ball and being turned into a parking lot.\n\nThe museum is housed in the Parmly Billings Memorial Library building, a Richardsonian Romanesque building built in 1901 and listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The WHC's mission is to promote an appreciation of the history of the Northern High Plains by collecting, sharing, and preserving stories and artifacts of Yellowstone River Valley life. \n\nIn 2001, the WHC received the Montana Governor's Humanities Award, being only the second organization to receive the honor reserved for individual contributions to the Humanities. In 2002, the WHC became the first Smithsonian Institution affiliate museum in the Northern Plains. Beginning in 2004, and presently running through 2008, WHC received federal appropriations from the United States Department of the Interior for the American Indian Tribal Histories Project, a program contributing to the preservation of Crow and Northern Cheyenne tribal histories. \n\nThe Western Heritage Center is committed to providing public programs at minimal or no cost. Programs include the monthly High Noon lecture and video series, teacher workshops, school traveling trunks, eight traveling exhibits, partnerships with regional museums, and active participation in local events. The WHC coordinates five to seven changing exhibits each year. \n\nThe Western Heritage publishes books, video materials, and education kits relating to regional history. The museum cares for 17,000 artifacts that illustrate and document Yellowstone River Valley history.\n\n"}
