{"id": "50741527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50741527", "title": "Ajamu X", "text": "Ajamu X\n\nAjamu X (born 1963 in Huddersfield) is a British artist, curator, archivist and activist. He best known for his fine art photography, which explores same-sex desire and the Black male body, and his work as an archivist and activist to document the lives and experiences of black LGBTQ people in the UK.\n\nAjamu was born in 1963 in Huddersfield to Jamaican parents. His grandparents arrived to England in 1958 and his parents followed in 1962.\n\nAjamu came out as gay to his parents in his late teens and describes their reaction as \"impressively progressive for the times\". He studied Black History and photography in Leeds. While in Leeds he and two friends, created the magazine \"BLAC\", an acronym for Black Liberation Activist Core. In October 1987, after seeing it advertised in the newspaper \"Caribbean Times\", Ajamu attended the first, and only, National Black Gay Men's Conference held at the Black Lesbian and Gay Centre in Camden. By January the following year, he had moved to London.\nHe was given the name Ajamu in 1991; it means \"he who fights for what he believes\".\n\nAjamu's work often highlights stories of black LGBT individuals who he feels are often marginalised from mainstream British Society; additionally he has chosen to focus on those who are black and openly \"out\" and have been accepted by their families. Ajamu has said he rejects the claim that Jamaican culture is particularly homophobic and believes that homophobia exists across cultures and families of all backgrounds.\n\nHe often speaks of his work as a \"sex activist\"; he has run \"sex parties for men who want to have sex with men\" since the 1990s, and same-sex desire and pleasure are recurring themes in his photography. His first major exhibition \"Black Bodyscapes\", in 1994, focused on the private sexual realities of black gay men. More recent projects include \"Fierce: Portraits of Young Black Queers\". an exhibition of 24 portraits of a \"…new generation of Black and proudly out young, emerging and established talent\" at London's Guildhall Art Gallery in 2014 and \"I Am For You Can Enjoy\" with Khalil West, at Contact Theatre, Manchester, in 2016, which uses photography and video, to explore the lives of queer Black male sex workers and their clients. Ajamu has described himself as an \"artist who has created an rchive\" and, in addition to his art practice, continues to document black LGBT experiences.\nIn 2000 Ajamu and Topher Campbell co-founded \"rukus! Federation\" an \" arts company dedicated to celebrating and showcasing the best in challenging, provocative works by black lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans-gender artists nationally and internationally.\" Ajamu was the Archive Manager \"The Black LGBT Archive Project\", a major initiative to develop an archive collection on \"Black Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Trans-Gender heritage, history and lived experience in the UK\". In 2008 Ajamu co-curated the exhibition \"Outside Edge: a journey through Black lesbian and gay history\" at the Museum of Docklands. The \"rukus! Black Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Cultural Archive\" was deposited at London Metropolitan Archives in 2010.\n\nAjamu was the subject of Topher Campbell's first film \"The Homecoming: A Short Film about Ajamu\" in 1995\".\" The documentary film \"Brixton Recreation with Ajamu,\" directed by Danny Solle, featured his experiences of cruising and sex as a out Black gay man in Brixton.\n\nHis fine art photography is in national and international collections including the Gallery of Modern Art in Glasgow, Autograph ABP, and the Neuberger Museum of Art in New York. Ajamu is co-chair of Centred, an LGBTQ community organisation, in London's Soho.\n\n\nAs Curator:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16925428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16925428", "title": "Alexander Hall of the Winter Palace", "text": "Alexander Hall of the Winter Palace\n\nThe Alexander Hall of the Winter Palace, St Petersburg, was created following the fire of 1837 by Alexander Briullov. The room commemorates the reign of Emperor Alexander I and the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nDecorated in an unusual Gothicised version of classicism, the walls contain twenty-four medallions commemorating Russia's victory over the French, created by the sculptor Count Fyodor Tolstoy.\n"}
{"id": "32444519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32444519", "title": "Anglo-Norman Text Society", "text": "Anglo-Norman Text Society\n\nThe Anglo-Norman Text Society is a text publication society founded in 1937 by Professor Mildred K. Pope. The founding aim of the society was to promote the study of Anglo-Norman language and Anglo-Norman literature by facilitating the publication of reliable scholarly editions of a broad range of texts of literary, linguistic, historical and legal value and interest. Based in the United Kingdom, the Society draws individual and institutional members from across the world.\n\nThe original series of publications launched by the Society was the Anglo-Norman Texts series, sometimes referred to as the Annual Texts series. The aim of this series was to produce an edition each year (or one volume of a multi-volume edition each year), yet while this rhythm has generally been maintained throughout the Society's history, unforeseen circumstances have on occasion led to minor delays or gaps in this schedule. The series has featured editions by some of the most renowned Anglo-Norman specialists of their time, including Mildred Pope, M. Dominica Legge, Alexander Bell, Ronald C. Johnson, Anthony J. Holden, Brian Merrilees, Ian Short, Tony Hunt, and Delbert Russell.\n\nThe Annual Texts series was complemented by the launch of two additional series in 1983. The first of these was the Plain Texts series, which has the goal of providing a critical text predominantly for shorter works, but without the more detailed introduction and notes provided in the Annual Texts series.\n\nThe second series was the Occasional Publications series, which, as the name suggests, has been reserved for publications which fall outside the remit of the other series. The first release in this series was a volume of essays compiled in memory of the Society's long-serving President, . The series has also featured Ruth Dean's \"Anglo-Norman Literature: a Guide to Texts and Manuscripts\", an indispensable successor to an earlier work with a similar remit by the Swedish scholar , and most recently Ian Short's \"Manual of Anglo-Norman\", building on Pope's monumental study of Anglo-Norman in the final section of her From Latin to Modern French, with Especial Consideration of Anglo-Norman (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 1934; revised reprints 1952 and 1956). It is also in this series that Holden, Gregory, and Crouch's edition of the \"History of William Marshal\" appeared, an account of the life and adventures of the famous William Marshal, 1st Earl of Pembroke.\n"}
{"id": "31943540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31943540", "title": "Annla Gearra as Proibhinse Ard Macha", "text": "Annla Gearra as Proibhinse Ard Macha\n\nAnnla Gearra as Proibhinse Ard Macha, in English The Short Annals of Armagh, is an Irish text contained in \"British Library, Additional manuscripts 30512\", compiled c. 1460–75.\n\nThe \"Annala Gearra Ard Macha\" covers events in Irish history from the lifetime of Lóegaire mac Néill (died c. 462) to 1134 (\"\"In bliadhain post ec Muircertaig comarba Patraic\" {folio 40vb} \"& abdaine do gabail do Niall & ordned Mailmedoc hUi Morgair & rl—.\"\"). The manuscript was penned by Iollan Mac an Leagha, a professional scribe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22038065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22038065", "title": "Apothecary Shop", "text": "Apothecary Shop\n\nThe Apothecary Shop is a building at the Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vermont that exhibits objects salvaged from New England pharmacies that were closing in the early decades of the 20th century. The main room contains dried herbs, spices, drugs, and labeled glass apothecary bottles from the nineteenth century, as well as early patent medicines, medical equipment, cosmetics, and a collection of barbers’ razors. The compounding room, with its brick hearth, copper distilleries, and percolators replicates an illustration found in Edward Parrish’s 1871 Treatise on Pharmacy.\n\nIn 1959 the Shelburne Museum constructed the \"Apothecary Shop\" as an addition to the \"General Store\". Inside the display shelves, pill press, and other professional tools create the appearance of an operating druggist’s shop between 1870 and 1900. The glass vessels displayed in the front windows are symbols of the apothecary trade: the red fluid represents arterial blood while the blue represents venous blood.\nPrior to the Civil War, druggists gathered and dried herbs, primed them for medicinal use through the process of grinding or distillation, then combined the prepared herbs with sugar, lard, alcohol and other substances to create tablets, ointments, and elixirs. While these practices continued into the late nineteenth century, druggists gradually responded to an ever-greater demand for patent medicines as customers began to prefer brightly labeled cure-alls to herbal remedies. Passage of the Pure Food and Drug Act in 1906 marked the beginning of the modern drugstore and the end of the apothecary shop.\n\n"}
{"id": "58645876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58645876", "title": "Arcade Herald", "text": "Arcade Herald\n\nThe \"Arcade Herald\" is a publication of Neighbor to Neighbor News, Inc. that serves ten townships and two villages surrounding Arcade, New York in the United States. It is published on Thursdays. Estimated circulation is 5000. The current publisher is Grant Hamilton, with Casey Dunlap as editor.\n\nThe \"Arcade Herald\" was established in 1891 as the \"Wyoming County Herald\" under publisher George Chase. In 1895, Chase left town suddenly and did not return. The \"Herald\" was sold by the local sheriff in 1897 to Walter F. Arthurs on credit. Chase later reformed and became vice president of the Wyoming County Press Association. \n\nIn 1899, the Republican members of the board of supervisors of Wyoming County designated the \"Herald\" as newspaper to publish the sessions laws, and in 1916, it was so designated again.\n\nIn 1927, the name of the newspaper was changed to the \"Arcade Herald\". In 1945, Arthurs sold the newspaper to Paul F. Dorris. In 1969, the name was changed to the \"Tri-County Times\". In 1981, the name was changed back to the \"Arcade Herald\". In 1986, Kathleen L. Mason became the publisher.\n"}
{"id": "29546138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29546138", "title": "Arnold Ritter von Harff's lexicon", "text": "Arnold Ritter von Harff's lexicon\n\nThe Arnold Ritter von Harff's lexicon is the second most ancient Albanian-language document ever retrieved, after the Formula e Pagëzimit. The lexicon was written by Arnold Ritter von Harff, a German traveler, who in 1496 was spending some hours in the port of Durrës and transcribed some words of the locals, by writing on the side, the German translation of them. The document includes 26 words in Albanian, 8 expressions, and numbers from 1 to 10, and also 100, and 1000.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3786576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3786576", "title": "Bill Mazer", "text": "Bill Mazer\n\nBill Mazer (born Morris Mazer; November 2, 1920 – October 23, 2013) was an American television and radio personality. He won numerous awards and citations, including three National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association's Sportscaster of the Year awards for New York from 1964–66. Considered a New York institution in sports reporting, Mazer was inducted into the hall of fame for the Buffalo Broadcasters Association (1999), Buffalo Baseball (2000) and the National Jewish Sports Hall of Fame and Museum (1997). He is also recognized as the host of the first sports talk radio show in history that launched in March 1964 on WNBC (AM).\n\nMazer earned the nickname \"The A-Maz-In\" for his deep knowledge of sports trivia. This was made evident while hosting his WNBC radio show in the 1960s. Based on this, he wrote several sports trivia books, including \"Bill Mazer's Amazin' Baseball Book: 150 Years of Baseball Tales & Trivia\" published by Zebra Books in 1990.\n\nMazer's family left Kiev, emigrating before his first birthday. He grew up in Brooklyn, New York. A graduate of Yeshiva University High School for Boys, he received a BA at University of Michigan for premed before being drafted. During World War II, he served the majority of his time in the Armed Forces-Air Force Transport Command in the Pacific theatre.\n\nAfter returning home, he married Dora Sudarsky (\"Dutch\"), his pre-war sweetheart. They had three children. Their marriage lasted 50 years until Sudarsky's death from cancer on April 28, 1996. The New York Knickerbockers observed a moment of silence during their May 1, 1996 Playoff game. Mazer never remarried.\n\nMazer's broadcasting career began in 1942, broadcasting in Grand Rapids, Michigan before joining the United States Military that same year.\n\nHis career as a sportscaster began in Buffalo, New York in 1947, where he signed on as a sportscaster on WKBW. In 1947, he was also the commercial announcer on the CBS William L. Shirer Newscast, as well as the commercial announcer for the soap opera, \"When a Girl Marries.\" By 1948, he had also become the sports director for WGR radio and served as principal sports anchor for WGR-TV from the time that station signed on in 1954 through the early 1960s. Mazer dominated the airwaves in Buffalo, broadcasting the hockey and baseball Buffalo Bisons, the All-American Football Conference Buffalo Bills and Little 3 Basketball. With years of play-by-play and sports commentary in Buffalo under his belt, Mazer arrived in New York City in 1964 when WNBC (AM) went to its first all-talk format. His show was one of the pioneer examples of the modern sports talk show in America.\n\nAfter filling in for Hugh Downs on the NBC game show \"Concentration\", he was given his own show, \"Reach for the Stars\", in January 1967, but the show was quickly cancelled. Mazer also filled in for segements of Monitor, even hosting on occasion.\n\nMazer served as a color analyst and intermission host, working alongside Dan Kelly on CBS' National Hockey League coverage from the late sixties until the early seventies, broadcasting the Stanley Cup playoffs a few times. Golf was another Mazer specialty on NBC, including the U.S. Open and Bing Crosby tournaments in the mid-1960s. ABC used Mazer for its regional New York football lineup in the late 1960s. Mazer also did sideline reporting for CBS coverage of the NFL in the late 1960s.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, Mazer did much voice-over commercial work, from L&M Cigarettes, Kodak, Ford automobiles to Trident chewing gum, among many others.\n\nMazer was a sportcaster at New York's WNEW-TV (Metromedia Channel 5) for twenty years, ending in the early 1990s. He also co-hosted the program \"Sports Extra\", which originally teamed him up with Lee Leonard and then later with Brian Madden (1976–78), respectively. \"Sports Extra\" is also considered to have been the first \"sports wrap-up\" show of its kind.\n\nWhile doing sports for \"The 10 O'Clock News\" on WNEW in the late 1970s and '80s, he held a daily contest where a viewer would send in a question to \"stump\" Bill and would win a prize if he or she did. Usually the submitted question was asked by anchorman John Roland.\n\nMazer hosted a WFAN sports show from Mickey Mantle's restaurant from 1988 to 1991, and returned to the station on June 30, 2007 to host an hour-long show from 10–11 AM during the station's 20th anniversary celebration and reunion weekend. He was also a morning talk show host on WEVD, where he expanded to a comprehensive liberal talk format from 1992 to 2001. The show ended when WEVD was optioned to ABC's ESPN division and became sports station WEPN.\n\nBill Mazer has appeared on the cable TV show \"The Leon Charney Report\", as well as minor parts in movies such as \"Eyewitness, Raging Bull\" and appearing in episodes of ESPN \"SportsCentury\" as an expert on sport figures including Gordie Howe, Lawrence Taylor and Mickey Mantle.\n\nFollowing his departure from WEVD in 2001, Mazer launched an afternoon interview program on WVOX in New Rochelle, New York from 3–6 PM EST (available via streaming from WVOX's website), with his son, Arnie Mazer, serving as producer. His last show on WVOX was aired August 3, 2009, ending his tenure at the station after nearly eight years.\n\nMazer's death was reported on October 23, 2013 at the age of 92. He died at a hospital in Danbury, Connecticut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56266699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56266699", "title": "Biological Magnetic Resonance Data Bank", "text": "Biological Magnetic Resonance Data Bank\n\nThe Biological Magnetic Resonance Data Bank (BioMagResBank or BMRB) is an open access repository of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopic data from peptides, proteins, nucleic acids and other biologically relevant molecules. The database is operated by the University of Wisconsin–Madison and is supported by the National Library of Medicine. The BMRB is part of the Research Collaboratory for Structural Bioinformatics and, since 2006, it is a partner in the Worldwide Protein Data Bank (wwPDB).\nThe repository accepts NMR spectral data from laboratories around the world and, once the data is validated, it is available online at the BMRB website. The database has also an ftp site, where data can be downloaded in the bulk. The BMRB has two mirror sites, one at the Protein Database Japan (PDBj) at Osaka University and one at the Magnetic Resonance Research Center (CERM) at the University of Florence in Italy. The site at Japan accepts and processes data depositions.\n\nThe bulk of the data deposited at the BMRB consists of over 11,900 entries containing H, C, N and P assigned chemical shifts and coupling constants of peptides, proteins and nucleic acids. Other derived data like residual dipolar couplings (RDC), relaxation parameters, NOE values, order parameters and hydrogen exchange rates are also available. The database contains also a smaller amount of NMR data from carbohydrates, cofactors and ligands. These data are crossreferenced to 3D structures in the PDB when available. The NMR data are provided in the NMR-STAR file format and a number of format conversion tools are available at the site to convert files from NMR-STAR to other formats. \n\nThe NMR restraints grid contains NMR restraints data from over 2500 proteins and nucleic acids collected from PDB depositions. The grid is constructed as four subsets of data:\n\nThe BMRB has archived sets of raw time-domain data collected from NMR experiments carried out to calculate restraints and chemical shifts in peptides, proteins and nucleic acids. This collection contains over 200 entries and in many cases the pulse-sequences and the acquisition parameters used are also available.\n\nThe BMRB hosts a database containing NMR spectral data from hundreds of metabolomic compounds. For most compounds, H NMR, C NMR, C 90 DEPT, C 135 DEPT, H-H TOCSY and H-C HSQC are available.\n\nThe BMRB provides a collection of NMR statistical data, including chemical shift distributions for individual atoms in amino acids, ribonucleotides and deoxyribonucleotides. The data are presented as interactive histograms and density plots.\n\nThe BMRB Query Grid Interface, allows to search the database by molecule type (peptide, protein, DNA, RNA, etc.), by data type (H chemical shift, C chemical shift, coupling constant, etc.), by PDB ID number and by BMRB accession number. \nThe BMRB site also contains a FASTA search page where the database can be searched for matching nucleotide or peptide sequences.\nFrom the Search Archive page, it is possible to carry out searches by accession number, author, title, molecule name, and by ID number from other common databases. An Advanced Search option allows to carry out queries using a variety of search parameters like: entry information, citations, molecular assembly, experimental descriptions, NMR parameters, etc. The page contains also links to restraints and metabolomics searches\nThe NMR restraints grid can be searched by PDB or BMRB number, and also by specific kinds of restraints, like torsion angle, distance, residual dipolar coupling, etc.\nThrough the metabolomics search page. the database can be searched for specific compounds by name, molecular formula, molecular weight, ID number and molecular structure. It can be searched for entries with specific experimental conditions (solvent or field strength). The interface allows also to search for compounds with matching 1D or 2D NMR spectral peak lists.\nThe BMRB accepts depositions from research groups around the world. Deposition of data containing only NMR spectral data (with no coordinates data) is carried out through the BMRB site using the ADIT-NMR deposition system. The types of data accepted include: NMR spectral parameters, relaxation data, and kinetic and thermodynamic data. Data must be entered in the NMR-STAR format, conversion from other common formats can be carried out using the STARch file converter provided at the site. The site also contains an NMR-STAR template generator which produces formatted tables where NMR data can be entered. NMR time-domain data is uploaded separately via ftp. The BMRB encourages depositors to validate their NMR data before deposition, using one of the validation tools available at the BMRB site, to check for inconsistencies and errors. . Once the data is deposited, it is checked for completeness, consistency and annotated, links to other databases are added and a BMRB accession number is generated. Deposition of data containing NMR and coordinates data is done through the OneDep deposition system of the wwPDB. Once the data is validated and accepted, it receives PDB and BMRB accession numbers.\n\n"}
{"id": "25848700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25848700", "title": "Comparison of open-source programming language licensing", "text": "Comparison of open-source programming language licensing\n\nThis is a comparison of open-source programming language licensing and related legal issues, covering all language implementations. Open-source programming languages are those that are released under open-source licenses.\n"}
{"id": "6123838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6123838", "title": "Comparison shopping website", "text": "Comparison shopping website\n\nA comparison shopping website, sometimes called a price comparison website, Price Analysis tool, comparison shopping agent, shopbot or comparison shopping engine, is a vertical search engine that shoppers use to filter and compare products based on price, features, reviews and other criteria. Most comparison shopping sites aggregate product listings from many different retailers but do not directly sell products themselves, instead earning money from affiliate marketing agreements. In the United Kingdom, these services made between £780m and £950m in revenue in 2005. Hence, E-commerce accounted for an 18.2 percent share of total business turnover in the United Kingdom in 2012. Online sales already account for 13% of the total UK economy, and its expected to increase to 15% by 2017. There is a huge contribution of comparison shopping websites in the expansion of current E-commerce industry.\n\nThe first widely recognized comparison-shopping agent was BargainFinder, developed by Andersen Consulting (now Accenture). The team, led by researcher Bruce Krulwich, created BargainFinder in 1995 as an experiment and published it on-line without advance warning to the e-commerce sites being compared. The first commercial shopping agent, called Jango, was produced by Netbot, a Seattle startup company founded by University of Washington professors Oren Etzioni and Daniel S. Weld; Netbot was acquired by the Excite portal in late 1997. Junglee, a Bay-area startup, also pioneered comparison shopping technology and was soon acquired by Amazon.com. Other early comparison shopping agents included pricewatch.com and killerapp.com. NexTag another entry into comparison shopping was named Times magazine world top 50 website in 2008.\n\nAround 2010, the price comparison websites found their way to emerging markets. Especially South-East Asia has been a place for many new comparison websites. It started in 2010 with CompareXpress in Singapore, and in the following years companies like Baoxian (China), Jirnexu (Malaysia), and AskHanuman (Thailand) followed.\n\nMeanwhile, in developed markets, Google was accused of promoting Froogle and its replacement, the paid-placement-only Google Shopping, over competitors in its search results, driving down traffic to other sites and driving some out of business. The European Commission began an investigation in 2010, which concluded in July 2017 with a €2.42 billion fine against the parent company Alphabet, and an order to change its practices within 90 days.\n\nIn the early development stage from 1995 to 2000, comparison shopping agents included not only price comparison but also rating and review services for online vendors and products. Altogether, there were three broad categories of comparison shopping services.\n\nLater, through mergers and acquisitions, many services were consolidated.\n\nThrough 1998 and 1999, various firms developed technology that searched retailers websites for prices and stored them in a central database. Users could then search for a product, and see a list of retailers and prices for that product. Advertisers did not pay to be listed but paid for every click on a price. Streetprices, founded in 1997, has been a very early company in this space; it invented price graphs and email alerts in 1998.\n\nPrice comparison sites can collect data directly from merchants. Retailers who want to list their products on the website then supply their own lists of products and prices, and these are matched against the original database. This is done by a mixture of information extraction, fuzzy logic and human labour.\n\nComparison sites can also collect data through a data feed file. Merchants provide information electronically in a set format. This data is then imported by the comparison website. Some third party businesses are providing consolidation of data feeds so that comparison sites do not have to import from many different merchants. Affiliate networks aggregate data feeds from many merchants and provide them to the price comparison sites. Many of the popular shopping websites provide direct affiliation to the customer who wants to become affiliate partner. They provide their own API to the affiliate partner to show their products with specifications to the affiliate partner's website. This enables price comparison sites to monetize the products contained in the feeds by earning commissions on click through traffic.Other price comparison sites have deals with merchants and aggregate feeds using their own technology.\n\nIn recent years, many \"off the shelf\" software solutions have been developed that allow website owners to take price comparison websites' inventory data to place retailer prices (context adverts) on their blog or content the only website. In return, the content website owners receive a small share of the revenue earned by the price comparison website. This is often referred to as the revenue share business model.\n\nAnother approach is to crawl the web for prices. This means the comparison service scans retail web pages to retrieve the prices, instead of relying on the retailers to supply them. This method is also sometimes called 'scraping' information. Some, mostly smaller, independent sites solely use this method, to get prices directly from the websites that it is using for the comparison.\n\nYet another approach is to collect data is through crowdsourcing. This lets the price comparison engine collect data from almost any source without the complexities of building a crawler or the logistics of setting up data feeds at the expense of lower coverage comprehensiveness. Sites that use this method rely on visitors contributing pricing data. Unlike discussion forums, which also collect visitor input, price comparison sites that use this method combine data with related inputs and add it to the main database though collaborative filtering, artificial intelligence, or human labor. Data contributors may be rewarded for the effort through prizes, cash, or other social incentives.\n\nHowever, some combination of these two approaches is most frequently used. Some search engines are starting to blend information from standard feeds with information from sites where product stock-keeping units (SKUs) are unavailable.\n\nEmpirical projects that assessed the functionality and performance of page-wise SSC engines (AKA bots) exist. These studies demonstrate that no best or parsimonious shopping bot exists with respect to price advantage.\n\nOther competitors:\n\nPrice comparison sites typically do not charge users anything to use the site. Instead, they are monetized through payments from retailers who are listed on the site. Depending on the particular business model of the comparison shopping site, retailers either pay a flat fee to be included on the site, pay a fee each time a user clicks through to the retailer web site, or pay every time a user completes a specified action—for example, when they buy something or register with their e-mail address. Comparison shopping sites obtain large product data feeds covering many different retailers from affiliate networks such as LinkShare and Commission Junction. There are also companies that specialize in data feed consolidation for the purpose of price comparison and that charge users for accessing this data. When products from these feeds are displayed on their sites they earn money each time a visitor clicks through to the merchant's site and buys something. Search results may be sorted by the amount of payment received from the merchants listed on the website. large price comparison sites.\n\nIn addition to comparing tangible goods, some sites compare prices of services, such as insurance, credit cards, phone bills, and money transfer.\n\nLike most websites, price comparison websites partly rely on search engines for visitors. The general nature of shopping focused price comparison websites is that, since their content is provided by retail stores, content on price comparison websites is unlikely to be absolutely unique. The table style layout of a comparison website could be considered by Google as \"Autogenerated Content and Roundup/Comparison Type of Pages\". As of the 2011 updates to its search algorithm, known as Google Panda, Google seems to have started considering these comparison sites to be of low quality.\n\nDue to large affiliate network providers providing easily accessible information on large amounts of similar products from multiple vendors, in recent years small price comparison sites have been able to use technology that was previously only available to large price comparison sites.\n\nThis technology includes software and plugins aimed to standardize the typical processes involving price and product comparison. Without much resources it became possible for amateurs to build seemingly professional websites, mostly using the popular Wordpress CMS. These small sites often rely on Google for their visitors, which are monetized using affiliate networks like Amazon.\n\nThe low content quality of typical niche sites, often bordering on spam and fraud, is a growing problem from the perspective of consumer protection and the quality of search engines. By playing the algorithm of search engine giant Google, it is possible to place low quality sites prominently in the search results.\n\nUntil recently the phenomenon of fake test or comparison websites had escaped public attention. An analysis by testbericht.de discovered that 34,6% of German search traffic related to product tests on the first page of google leads to fake test sites. When a big German newspaper published a report about such a website and consumer protection organization sending out warning letters, observers started to note a sense of panic in the industry, with site owners changing or deleting the content in question. Amazon, being the biggest player in the affiliate market, declined to comment on the matter.\n\nDeceptive comparison sites give the impression of testing a product thoroughly. In reality, the tests are just an aggregation of freely available information, often leading to the most expensive products being recommended. This in turn increases the commission rate the site owners earn for the recommended products.\n\nIn 2017, the European Commission fined Google €2.42BN for allegedly monopolising the CSE market. Google released a statement that the European Commission's assessment will be appealed. Google will review the formal decision, but expects that it will accrue the fine in the second quarter of 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10923902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10923902", "title": "Dream Pool Essays", "text": "Dream Pool Essays\n\nThe Dream Pool Essays or Dream Torrent Essays (Pinyin: \"Mèng Xī Bǐ Tán\"; Wade-Giles: \"Meng⁴ Hsi¹ Pi³-t'an²\"; Chinese: 夢溪筆談／梦溪笔谈) was an extensive book written by the Han Chinese polymath, genius, scientist and statesman Shen Kuo (1031–1095) by 1088 AD, during the Song dynasty (960–1279) of China. Although Shen was previously a highly renowned government official and military general, he compiled this enormous written work while virtually isolated on his lavish garden estate near modern-day Zhenjiang, Jiangsu province. He named the book after the name he gave to his estate, the \"Dream Brook\". The literal translated meaning is \"Brush Talks from a Dream Brook\", and Shen Kuo is quoted as saying:\n\nAs the historian Chen Dengyuan points out, much of Shen Kuo's written work was probably purged under the leadership of minister Cai Jing (1046–1126). For example, only six of Shen's books remain, and four of these have been significantly altered since the time they were penned by the author. The \"Dream Pool Essays\" was first quoted in a Chinese written work of 1095 AD, showing that even towards the end of Shen's life his final book was becoming widely printed. The book was originally 30 chapters long, yet an unknown Chinese author's edition of 1166 AD edited and reorganized the work into 26 chapters. There is one surviving copy of this 1166 edition housed now in Japan, while a Chinese reprint was produced in 1305 as well. In 1631 another edition was printed, but it was heavily reorganized into three broad chapters.\n\n\nWith Shen's writings on fossils, geomorphology, and shifting geographical climates, he states in the following passages:\nIn the Zhi-ping reign period [1064–67 AD] a man of Zezhou was digging a well in his garden, and unearthed something shaped like a squirming serpent, or dragon. He was so frightened by it that he dared not touch it, but after some time, seeing that it did not move, he examined it and found it to be stone. The ignorant country people smashed it, but Zheng Boshun, who was magistrate of Jincheng at the time, got hold of a large piece of it on which scale-like markings were to be seen exactly like those on a living creature. Thus a serpent or some kind of marine snake (\"chhen\") had certainly been turned to stone, as happens with the 'stone-crabs'.\n\nIn recent years [cca. 1080] there was a landslide on the bank of a large river in Yong-ning Guan near Yanzhou. The bank collapsed, opening a space of several dozens of feet, and under the ground a forest of bamboo shoots was thus revealed. It contained several hundred bamboo with their roots and trunks all complete, and all turned to stone...Now bamboos do not grow in Yanzhou. These were several dozens of feet below the present surface of the ground, and we do not know in what dynasty they could possibly have grown. Perhaps in very ancient times the climate was different so that the place was low, damp, gloomy, and suitable for bamboos. On the Jin-hua Shan in Wuzhou there are stone pine-cones, and stones formed from peach kernels, stone bulrush roots, stone fishes, crabs, and so on, but as these are all (modern) native products of that place, people are not very surprised at them. But these petrified bamboos appeared under the ground so deep, though they are not produced in that place today. This is a very strange thing.\n\nWhen the Director of the Astronomical Observatory asked Shen Kuo if the shapes of the sun and moon were round like balls or flat like fans, Shen Kuo explained his reasoning for the former:\nIf they were like balls they would surely obstruct each other when they met. I replied that these celestial bodies were certainly like balls. How do we know this? By the waxing and waning of the moon. The moon itself gives forth no light, but is like a ball of silver; the light is the light of the sun (reflected). When the brightness is first seen, the sun(-light passes almost) alongside, so the side only is illuminated and looks like a crescent. When the sun gradually gets further away, the light shines slanting, and the moon is full, round like a bullet. If half of a sphere is covered with (white) powder and looked at from the side, the covered part will look like a crescent; if looked at from the front, it will appear round. Thus we know that the celestial bodies are spherical.\nWhen the director of the astronomical observatory asked Shen Kuo why eclipses occurred only on an occasional basis while in conjunction and opposition once a day, Shen Kuo wrote:\nI answered that the ecliptic and the moon's path are like two rings, lying one over the other, but distant by a small amount. (If this obliquity did not exist), the sun would be eclipsed whenever the two bodies were in conjunction, and the moon would be eclipsed whenever they were exactly in position. But (in fact) though they may occupy the same degree, the two paths are not (always) near (each other), and so naturally the bodies do not (intrude) upon one another.\nOn the use of the sighting tube to fix the position of the pole star, Shen Kuo wrote:\nBefore Han times it was believed that the pole star was in the center of the sky, so it was called Jixing (Summit star). Zu Geng(-zhi) found out with the help of the sighting tube that the point in the sky which really does not move was a little more than 1 degree away from the summit star. In the Xining reign-period (1068–1077) I accepted the order of the emperor to take charge of the Bureau of the Calendar. I then tried to find the true pole by means of the tube. On the very first night I noticed that the star which could be seen through the tube moved after a while outside the field of view. I realized, therefore, that the tube was too small, so I increased the size of the tube by stages. After three months' trials I adjusted it so that the star would go round and round within the field of view without disappearing. In this way I found that the pole star was distant from the true pole somewhat more than 3 degrees. We used to make the diagrams of the field, plotting the positions of the star from the time when it entered the field of view, observing after nightfall, at midnight, and early in the morning before dawn. Two hundred of such diagrams showed that the 'pole star' was really a circumpolar star. And this I stated in my detailed report to the emperor.\n\nOn the methods of Bi Sheng's invention of movable type printing between the years 1041 to 1048 AD, Shen Kuo wrote:\n[Bi Sheng] took sticky clay and cut in it characters as thin as the edge of a coin. Each character formed, as it were, a single type. He baked them in the fire to make them hard. He had previously prepared an iron plate and he had covered his plate with a mixture of pine resin, wax, and paper ashes. When he wished to print, he took an iron frame and set it on the iron plate. In this he placed the types, set close together. When the frame was full, the whole made one solid block of type. He then placed it near the fire to warm it. When the paste [at the back] was slightly melted, he took a smooth board and pressed it over the surface, so that the block of type became as even as a whetstone. If one were to print only two or three copies, this method would be neither simple nor easy. But for printing hundreds or thousands of copies, it was marvelously quick. As a rule he kept two forms going. While the impression was being made from the one form, the type was being put in place on the other. When the printing of the one form was finished, the other was then ready. In this way the two forms alternated and the printing was done with great rapidity.\n\nOf Daoism and the inability of empirical science to explain everything in the world, Shen Kuo wrote:\nThose in the world who speak of the regularities underlying the phenomena, it seems, manage to apprehend their crude traces. But these regularities have their very subtle aspect, which those who rely on mathematical astronomy cannot know of. Still even these are nothing more than traces. As for the spiritual processes described in the [\"Book of Changes\"] that \"when they are stimulated, penetrate every situation in the realm,\" mere traces have nothing to do with them. This spiritual state by which foreknowledge is attained can hardly be sought through changes, of which in any case only the cruder sort are attainable. What I have called the subtlest aspect of these traces, those who discuss the celestial bodies attempt to know by depending on mathematical astronomy; but astronomy is nothing more than the outcome of conjecture.\n\nBelow are two passages from Shen's book outlining the basics contained in Yu Hao's \"Timberwork Manual\". Yu Hao was a Chinese architect of the earlier 10th, and Kuo was one to praise his work. In the first quote, Shen Kuo describes a scene where Yu Hao gives advice to another artisan architect about slanting struts for diagonal wind bracing:\nWhen Mr. Qian (Wei-yan) was Governor of the two Zhejiang provinces, he authorized the building of a wooden pagoda at the Fan-tian Si (Brahma-Heaven Temple) in Hangzhou with a design of twice three stories. While it was under construction General Chhien went up to the top and was worried because it swayed a little. But the Master-Builder explained that as the tiles had not yet been put on, the upper part was still rather light, hence the effect. So then they put on all the tiles, but the sway continued as before. Being at a loss what to do, he privately sent his wife to see the wife of Yu Hao with a present of golden hair pins, and enquire about the cause of the motion. (Yu) Hao laughed and said: 'That's easy, just fit in struts (pan) to settle the work, fixed with (iron) nails, and it will not move any more.' The Master-Builder followed his advice, and the tower stood quite firm. This is because the nailed struts filled in and bound together (all the members) up and down so that the six planes (above and below, front and back, left and right) were mutually linked like the cage of the thorax. Although people might walk on the struts, the six planes grasped and supported each other, so naturally there could be no more motion. Everybody acknowledged the expertise thus shown.\nIn this next quote, Shen Kuo describes the dimensions and types of architecture outlined in Yu Hao's book:\nMethods of building construction are described in the \"Timberwork Manual\", which, some say, was written by Yu Hao. (According to that book), buildings have three basic units of proportion, what is above the cross-beams follows the Upperwork Unit, what is above the ground floor follows the Middlework Unit, and everything below that (platforms, foundations, paving, etc.) follows the Lowerwork Unit. The length of the cross-beams will naturally govern the lengths of the uppermost cross-beams as well as the rafters, etc. Thus for a (main) cross-beam of (8 ft) length, an uppermost cross-beam of (3.5 ft) length will be needed. (The proportions are maintained) in larger and smaller halls. This (2/28) is the Upperwork Unit. Similarly, the dimensions of the foundations must match the dimensions of the columns to be used, as also those of the (side-) rafters, etc. For example, a column (11 ft) high will need a platform (4.5 ft) high. So also for all the other components, corbelled brackets, projecting rafters, other rafters, all have their fixed proportions. All these follow the Middlework Unit (2/24). Now below of ramps (and steps) there are three kinds, steep, easy-going, and intermediate. In places these gradients are based upon a unit derived from the imperial litters. Steep ramps are ramps for ascending which the leading and trailing bearers have to extend their arms fully down and up respectively (ratio 3/35). Easy-going ramps are those for which the leaders use elbow length and the trailers shoulder height (ratio 1/38); intermediate ones are negotiated by the leaders with downstretched arms and trailers at shoulder height (ratio 2/18). These are the Lowerwork Units. The book (of Yu Hao) had three chapters. But builders in recent years have become much more precise and skillful (yen shan) than formerly. Thus for some time past the old Timberwork Manual has fallen out of use. But (unfortunately) there is hardly anybody capable of writing a new one. To do that would be a masterpiece in itself!\n\nShen Kuo described the natural predator insect similarly shaped to the \"gou-he\" (\"dog-grubs\") which preyed upon the agricultural pest infestation of \"zi-fang\", the moth \"Leucania separata\":\nIn the Yuan-Feng reign period (1078–1085), in the Qingzhou region, an outbreak of \"zi-fang\" insects caused serious damage to the crops in the fields in autumn. Suddenly another insect appeared in swarms of thousands and tens of thousands, covering the entire ground area. It was shaped like earth-burrowing \"gou-he\" (dog grubs), and its mouth was flanked by pincers. Whenever it met a \"zi-fang\", it would seize it with the pincers and break the poor beast into two bits. Within ten days all the \"zi-fang\" had disappeared, so the locality had an abundant harvest. Such kinds of insects have been known since antiquity and the local people call them \"pang-bu-ken\" (\"not allowing other [insects] to be\").\n\nAround 1078, Shen Kuo wrote an accurate description of the damaging effects of lightning to buildings and to the specific materials of objects within. Taking an objective and speculative viewpoint, he stated:\nA house belonging to Li Shunju was struck by lightning. Brilliant sparkling light was seen under the eaves. Everyone thought that the hall would be burnt, and those who were inside rushed out. After the thunder had abated, the house was found to be alright, though its walls and the paper on the windows were blackened. On certain wooden shelves, certain lacquered vessels with silver mouths had been struck by the lightning, so that the silver had melted and dropped to the ground, but the lacquer was not even scorched. Also, a valuable sword made of strong steel had been melted to liquid, without the parts of the house nearby being affected. One would have thought that the thatch and wood would have been burnt up first, yet here were metals melted and no injury to thatch and wood. This is beyond the understanding of ordinary people. There are Buddhist books which speak of 'dragon fire' which burns more fiercely when it meets with water instead of being extinguished by water like 'human' fire. Most people can only judge of things by the experiences of ordinary life, but phenomena outside the scope of this are really quite numerous. How insecure it is to investigate natural principles using only the light of common knowledge, and subjective ideas.\nA passage called \"Strange Happenings\" contains a peculiar account of an unidentified flying object. Shen wrote that, during the reign of Emperor Renzong (1022–1063), an object as bright as a pearl occasionally hovered over the city of Yangzhou at night, but described first by local inhabitants of eastern Anhui and then in Jiangsu. Shen wrote that a man near Xingkai Lake observed this curious object; allegedly it:\n...opened its door and a flood of intense light like sunbeams darted out of it, then the outer shell opened up, appearing as large as a bed with a big pearl the size of a fist illuminating the interior in silvery white. The intense silver-white light, shot from the interior, was too strong for human eyes to behold; it cast shadows of every tree within a radius of ten miles. The spectacle was like the rising Sun, lighting up the distant sky and woods in red. Then all of a sudden, the object took off at a tremendous speed and descended upon the lake like the Sun setting.\nShen went on to say that Yibo, a poet of Gaoyou, wrote a poem about this \"pearl\" after witnessing it. Shen wrote that since the \"pearl\" often made an appearance around Fanliang in Yangzhou, the people there erected a \"Pearl Pavilion\" on a wayside, where people came by boat in hopes to see the mysterious flying object.\n\nAround 1065 Shen Kuo wrote about the assembly methods for swords, and the patterns produced in the steel:\nAncient people use \"chi kang\", (combined steel), for the edge, and \"jou thieh\" (soft iron) for the back, otherwise it would often break. Too strong a weapon will cut and destroy its own edge; that is why it is advisable to use nothing but combined steel. As for the \"yu-chhang\" (fish intestines) effect, it is what is now called the 'snake-coiling' steel sword, or alternatively, the 'pine tree design'. If you cook a fish fully and remove its bones, the shape of its guts will be seen to be like the lines on a 'snake-coiling sword'.\n\nShen Kuo observed that the Chinese since some centuries prior had entirely adopted barbarian fashions.\n中國衣冠，自北齊以來，乃全用胡服。窄袖、緋綠短衣、長靿靴、有鞢帶，皆胡服也。窄袖利於馳射，短衣、長靿皆便於涉草。胡人樂茂草，常寢處其間，予使北時皆見之。雖王庭亦在深荐中。予至胡庭日，新雨過，涉草，衣褲皆濡，唯胡人都無所沾。帶衣所垂蹀躞，蓋欲佩帶弓劍、帨、算囊、刀勵之類。\n\nThe clothing of China since the Northern Qi [550–557] onward has been entirely made barbarian. Narrow sleeves, short dark red or green robes, tall boots and metal girdle ornaments are all barbarian garb. The narrow sleeves are useful when shooting while galloping. The short robes and tall boots are convenient when passing through tall grass. The barbarians all enjoy thick grass as they always sleep in it. I saw them all do it when I was sent north. Even the king's court is in the deep grasses. On the day I had arrived at the barbarian court the new rains had passed and I waded through the grass. My robes and trousers were all soaked, but the barbarians were not at all wet. With things hanging from robe and belt they walk about. One perhaps might want to hang items like a bow and blade, handkerchief, coin purse or knife from the belt.\n\nOn the humanities:\n\nOn natural sciences:\n\nHumanistic sciences:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25676204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25676204", "title": "Edward Nicholson (librarian)", "text": "Edward Nicholson (librarian)\n\nEdward Williams Byron Nicholson (16 March 1849 – 17 March 1912) was an author and Bodley's Librarian, the head of the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford, from 1882 until his death in 1912.\n\nNicholson was born in St Helier, Jersey. His father, a former member of the Royal Navy, participated in the California Gold Rush and died in America, leaving Nicholson's mother in poverty. She moved back to her mother's house in Llanrwst, north Wales. Nicholson was educated at Llanrwst Grammar School, Liverpool College (for one term) and Tonbridge School. He studied at Trinity College, Oxford from 1867, initially reading classics before obtaining a third-class degree in Law and Modern History in 1871. During his time at Oxford, he won the Gaisford Prize for Greek Verse in 1871 and the Hall-Houghton Junior Greek Testament Prize in 1872.\n\nNicholson had been the librarian at Tonbridge School and was the honorary Librarian of the Oxford Union Society from 1872 to 1873, and produced catalogues of the contents of each library, demonstrating his aptitude for cataloguing. After spending some time teaching, he became Principal Librarian and Superintendent of the London Institution in 1873. He reinvigorated the organisation, which promoted education through lectures and a library, and helped to increase its activities, membership and income, as well as the quality of its library. An international conference of librarians was held in London in 1877, largely through his work, leading with his help to the foundation of the Library Association of the United Kingdom. He was a council member until 1881, when he resigned complaining that the council had failed to instigate \"one single improvement however trifling in library-management or library-appliances\".\n\nBodley's Librarian (the head of the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford), Henry Octavius Coxe, died in 1881. Nicholson applied for the post, relying on his experience as a librarian and his organisational skills to compensate his lack of experience in palaeography, bibliography and languages. He was a surprise choice, as the position had traditionally been held by scholar-librarians, but he had the support of Benjamin Jowett (Vice-Chancellor of the University from 1882 and Master of Balliol College) and others who thought that the Bodleian needed reform. The library was cramped, under-staffed and poorly catalogued, but was still regarded as one of the leading libraries in the world. Nicholson instituted a number of reforms and improvements: he obtained further space for the library in the rooms of nearby buildings; he changed the system of cataloguing; more books were acquired; open access to some reference books in the Radcliffe Camera was introduced; and boys were employed to carry out some tasks, freeing up the time of the more experienced staff. However, these changes had internal opponents, including Falconer Madan, the senior Sub-Librarian (and Nicholson's eventual successor). The battles between Nicholson and some of his staff, which included anonymous complaints in newspapers, were an ongoing problem and affected Nicholson's health. One writer, however, later said of Nicholson, \"I have always regarded him as almost the refounder of the Library\".\n\nThe library continued to suffer from inadequate space and money, but Nicholson made the most of the building and his staff, even though increasing the number of books added pressure on the available space. Nicholson proposed an underground book store in 1899 and work on this (the first specially-constructed underground book store to be built), along with other expansion work, began in 1907. However, by this time, his struggles and hard work had affected his health: he was confirmed as suffering from heart disease in 1890, he had a breakdown in 1901, and collapsed in the street in 1907 on two occasions. His last dispute with staff concerned his decision to appoint a woman to a permanent position. He was very reluctant to take a leave of absence from the library, suspecting motivations behind the suggestions, but finally did so less than a month before his death.\n\nOutside the library, he enjoyed chess, swimming, cycling, and writing limericks. He was noted for his kindness and consideration, and was particularly appreciated by junior staff at the library.\n\nHe died at home in Oxford on 17 March 1912, leaving a wife (Helen Grant) and three daughters (Violet, Myrtle and May).\n\nNicholson published on various topics, such as classical literature and Celtic antiquities. His writings included: \n\n"}
{"id": "10597695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10597695", "title": "Encyclopedia of Yugoslavia", "text": "Encyclopedia of Yugoslavia\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Yugoslavia () was the national encyclopedia of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It was published by the Yugoslav Lexicographical Institute (Zagreb) under the direction of Miroslav Krleža. It is viewed as having \"great value\" for a person with an interest in the history and culture of Yugoslavia and its successor states. \n\nThe first edition consists of 8 volumes, issued from 1955 to 1971. It was printed in 30,000 copies.\n\nWork on the second edition started in 1980, but was not finished due to the Yugoslav wars. Only 6 of 12 planned volumes appeared.\n\nThe main Serbo-Croatian Latin alphabet edition has been translated into 5 additional language-alphabet combinations:\n\nThe Macedonian and Albanian variants were the first encyclopedias published in the respective languages.\n"}
{"id": "48050662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48050662", "title": "Epistulae ad Familiares", "text": "Epistulae ad Familiares\n\nEpistulae ad Familiares (Letters to Friends) is a collection of letters between Roman politician and orator Marcus Tullius Cicero and various public and private figures. The letters in this collection, together with Cicero's other letters, are considered the most reliable sources of information for the period leading up to the fall of the Roman Republic. Traditionally spanning 16 books, and featuring letters from 62 to 43 BCE, the collection was likely first published by Cicero's freedman and personal secretary Marcus Tullius Tiro sometime after Cicero's death in 43 BCE.\n\nA number of manuscript copies of this collection have reached modern times. The earliest witness to the text is a palimpsest on a single leaf, written in uncials of the fifth or sixth century (CLA IV.443; it contains portions of letters 6.9 and 6.10. Two more fragments from 12th century manuscripts -- the outer bifolium of an eight-sheet gathering containing 2.1.1-2.17.4, and a single leaf containing 5.10.1-5.12.2 -- represent one medieval tradition. One complete manuscript survives containing the entire collection, written in the first half of the 9th century in several hands (M); at one point it was in the hands of bishop Leo of Vercelli, and it is included in the 9th-century library catalog of the Abbey of Lorsch; Coluccio Salutati made a copy of this manuscript in 1392; it currently resides at the Laurentian Library in Florence as manuscript 49.9. There are also two groups of medieval manuscripts which represent a tradition independent of M: one provides the text for books 1-8 (X), the other for books 9-16 (Y). The X tradition is contaminated by M, and thus is of less value than the Y tradition.\n\n"}
{"id": "26568335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26568335", "title": "Fashion museum", "text": "Fashion museum\n\nA fashion museum is dedicated to or features a significant collection of accessories or clothing. There is some overlap with textile museums.\n\nNotable examples include the Costume Museum of Canada, the Fashion Museum, Bath, the Musée Galliera in Paris, and the Fashion Museum of the Province of Antwerp MoMu. National museums with significant fashion collections include the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York contains a collection of more than 75,000 costumes and accessories.\n\nAnother in London is the Fashion and Textile Museum, founded by designer Zandra Rhodes in 2003, and the only museum in Britain dedicated to showcasing developments in contemporary fashion, as well as providing inspiration, support and training for those working in the industry.\n"}
{"id": "1430452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430452", "title": "Feroz Abbasi", "text": "Feroz Abbasi\n\nFeroz Abbasi is one of nine British men who were held in extrajudicial detention in the United States Guantanamo Bay detainment camps, in Cuba. Five were repatriated in March 2004, and released by the British government the next day. He was released from detention on 25 January 2005 along with Moazzam Begg, Martin Mubanga and Richard Belmar. Abbasi's Guantanamo Internment Serial Number was 24. The Department of Defense reports that he was born on 29 October 1979 in Entebbe, Uganda.\n\nAbbasi moved to Britain with his mother Zumrati Juma, a social worker, and family when he was eight. They lived in Croydon, South London. Abbasi attended Edenham High School in Shirley, Croydon, gaining good GCSE grades. He is said to have been a well-behaved and conscientious school pupil, interested in roller blading and Michael Jackson. He took his A-levels at John Ruskin College (1996–1998) and enrolled in a two-year computing course at Nescot College in Epsom, which he did not finish. He started traveling.\n\nAbbasi was brought up a Muslim but had stopped attending his local mosque when he was twelve. His interest in Islam was apparently rekindled after he was mugged at 19 on his first trip abroad to Geneva and met a Kashmiri refugee there.\n\nAfter his return, he began to attend the moderate local mosque in Croydon. He became more fervent, becoming involved with and in spring 2000 moving into the radical Finsbury Park mosque. There he helped set up a website for a militant Islamic group. Because his half-brother and half-sister had a Christian father, he stopped talking to the family and eventually disappeared. The family last saw him in 2000, as he was preparing to leave for Afghanistan.\n\nNothing more was known about him until Abbasi was reportedly detained in December 2001, in Kunduz in the north of the country.\n\nThe US government alleged that Abbasi attended four separate al-Qaeda training courses from January to August 2001 at the Al Farouq training camp, near Kandahar, and also at the nearby camp, Ubaida. He was taught urban warfare, assassination techniques, intelligence collection and surveillance. They allege that he volunteered to participate in suicide operations and met Osama bin Laden, the founder and leader of al-Qaeda, three times. He was alleged to have fought with al-Qaeda and Taliban forces against US and coalition forces in Afghanistan. When he was captured by the Afghan Northern Alliance, they claim he had hand grenades strapped to his legs and was carrying a military radio. He was handed over to US forces. They referred to him as \"the SAS guy\" in reference to his extensive training, and shipped him to the Guantanamo Bay detention camp in 2002.\n\nHis mother and his lawyers argued that Abbasi was one of a small group of idealistic young Muslim men who found themselves caught in the wrong place at the wrong time. She said she was worried for his mental welfare and, by his release, had not heard from him since late-2003. British officials last visited him at Guantanamo in April 2003.\n\nIn November 2002, the British Court of Appeal said it found his detention at Guantanamo \"legally objectionable\", but stopped short of forcing the government to intervene on his behalf. In 2003, the US Government announced that Abbasi would be one of the prisoners facing charges before a military tribunal, although it was announced that he would not face the death penalty if convicted.\nIn mid-November 2004, the press reported that the Britons in Guantanamo Bay \"expect to face charges within six weeks\", however, no charges were laid against them.\n\nOn 28 January 2005, after Abbasi's release, the US authorities released to the BBC further details of their allegations, as well as a statement allegedly written by Abbasi which, they claimed, was a handwritten autobiography written whilst in detention. The document allegedly describes his anguish and low self-esteem before he left England and outlines how a jihad group works and describes his training and use of weapons. But, Abbasi's lawyer confirmed Abbasi's claims to have been tortured, as a result, the statement was legally worthless as evidence.\n\nHis mother, his Member of Parliament (MP) Geraint Davies, and human rights lawyers and organisations worked against the US internment and military tribunal process. They also called on the British government to put greater pressure on their US counterparts to improve the tribunal process, detention conditions, and access for the family and lawyers. The British government pressured the US to release its citizens, reportedly leading to a rift between the two countries.\n\nOn Monday 11 January 2005, British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw announced that the four Britons in Guantanamo Bay: Moazzam Begg, Martin Mubanga, Richard Belmar and Feroz Abbasi, would be returned to Britain \"within weeks\" after \"intensive and complex discussions\" with the US government. Although they were still regarded as \"enemy combatants\" by the US government, no charges have ever been brought against any of them.\n\nOn 25 January 2005, Abbasi, along with the three other British citizens, was flown back to the United Kingdom by an RAF aircraft. On arrival they were arrested by officers from the Metropolitan Police and taken to Paddington Green Police Station for questioning under the Terrorism Act 2000. By 9pm the next day, 26 January, all four had been released without charge.\n\nThe BBC learned on 15 February 2005 that Abbasi and Martin Mubanga had received letters from the British government telling them that they would not be allowed passports. Using the Royal Prerogative for the first time since 1976, the government withdrew the passports for the time being due to evidence gathered against them by the US. The British government suggested they were likely to take part in action against UK or allied targets if they left Britain. It was unclear whether the evidence was gathered in Guantanamo, where their lawyer has alleged Abbasi and Mubanga suffered torture, or whether this measure was part of the conditions agreed with the US government for their release.\n\nOn 4 March 2006, following a Freedom of Information Act request from the Associated Press, 5000 pages of information were released containing the names and home countries of many detainees in Guantanamo Bay. Amongst this documentation is a transcript of the hearing at which Feroz Abbasi was present. Mr. Abbasi's session, begins on page one of this PDF file.\n\nFeroz Abbasi asked:\n\"May I have my legal representative present please?\"\n\nThe tribunal president, a USAF colonel (whose name has been blacked out in the document) replied:\n\"No you may not. This is not a legal proceeding. It is a military tribunal.\"\n\nFeroz Abbasi continued:\n\"On the basis that the tribunal can actually hold me here in incarceration or release me, I would consider this a criminal proceeding.\"\n\nFeroz Abbasi (reading): \n\nAKA Malcolm X. I am not anti-American and I did not come here to condemn America. I want to make that very clear. I came here to tell the truth and if the truth condemns America, then she stands condemned...(inaudible) The sun rising is splendour. A notice. It is my duty as a Muslim to warn all who are involved in this matter that they are personally responsible for their actions at all times before Allah. Allah says in this uncreated word that is the Koran. Is the man who believes no better than the man who is rebellious and wicked? Not equal are they. For those who believe and do righteous deeds are gardeners as hospitable homes for their good deeds. As to those who are rebellious or wicked their abode will be the fire. Every time they wish to get away from there they will be forced there into and it will be said to them, Take ye the penalty of the fire which ye will want to reject as false. And indeed we will make them taste of the penalty of this life prior to the supreme penalty in order that they may repent and return. And who does more wrong than one to whom are recited the signs of his lord and who turns away there from. Vary from those who transgress we will exact due retribution. Chapter 32 Al Sajdah, verses 18–22.\n\nAbbasi continues quoting from the Koran.\n\nThe president says he: \"appreciates your concern for our souls\".\n\nFollowing Abbasi's concerns about his classification from the point of Islamic law, the tribunal president states:\n\"This is not Islamic law. It has no authority here.\"\n\nAbbasi then repeatedly brings up his status under international law. The tribunal president says:\n\n\"International law does not apply. Geneva Conventions do not apply. You have been designated an enemy combatant. This Tribunal will fairly listen to your explanation of your actions.\"\n\nAfter repeated references to international law by Abbasi, the tribunal president states:\n\n\"I don't care about international law. I don't want to hear the word international law again.\"\n\nAbbasi also asked to be treated as a prisoner of war and declared he would be humbled to be regarded as a combatant, stating:\n\n\"Do not be fooled into thinking I am in any way perturbed by you classifying me as a (nonsensical) 'enemy combatant'. In fact quite to the contrary I am humbled that Allah would honour me so.\"\n\nAbbasi admitted attending an al-Qaeda training camp visited by Osama Bin Laden:\n\n\"Yes, I was present at the very speech when with his own mouth and tongue he told Basic Training that he had received a fax from the Americans!\".\n\nOn 12 July 2006, the American magazine \"Mother Jones\" provided excerpts from the transcripts of a selection of the Guantanamo detainees. Abbasi was one of the detainees profiled.\n\nAccording to the article, his transcript contained the following exchange:\n\nIn January 2012, Abbasi talked to \"The Observer\" about his life since his release. He was finding it difficult to get back to ordinary life.\n\n"}
{"id": "18628153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18628153", "title": "German Broadcasting Archive", "text": "German Broadcasting Archive\n\nThe German Broadcasting Archive (\"Deutsches Rundfunkarchiv\"; DRA) is a non-profit foundation supported by the ARD. It was founded in 1952 as \"German sound archive\". The DRA covers essential aspects of the development of German broadcasting. Today it has two locations: Frankfurt am Main and Potsdam-Babelsberg (formerly Berlin-Adlershof).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9391020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9391020", "title": "IESR", "text": "IESR\n\nThe JISC Information Environment Service Registry (IESR) provides a registry of all \"significant research collections in the UK\" and supports \"teaching, learning and research\". It is funded by the Jisc under its Shared Infrastructure Services programme.\n\nThe IESR aims to provide a “Yellow Pages for the academic internet” accessible through web and machine interfaces. It provides a reliable source of information that other applications, such as portals, can freely access through machine-to-machine protocols, in order to help their end users discover resources of assistance to them.\n\nIESR contains information about the resources themselves, technical details about how to access the resources, and contact details for the resource providers. \n\nIESR is a Mimas service based at the University of Manchester.\n\n"}
{"id": "2791964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2791964", "title": "Instrument of Accession", "text": "Instrument of Accession\n\nThe Instrument of Accession was a legal document first introduced by the Government of India Act 1935 and used in 1947 to enable each of the rulers of the princely states under British paramountcy to join one of the new dominions of India or Pakistan created by the Partition of British India.\n\n565 princely states existed in India during the period of British rule. These were not parts of British India proper, having never become possessions of the British Crown, but were tied to it in a system of subsidiary alliances.\n\nThe Government of India Act 1935 introduced the concept of the Instrument of Accession, wherein a ruler of a princely state could accede his kingdom into the 'Federation of India'. The federation concept was initially opposed by the Indian princes, but accession of all the princely states was almost complete when World War II occurred.\n\nIn 1947 the British finalized their , and the question of the future of the princely states was a conundrum for them. As they were not British, they could not be partitioned by the British between the new sovereign nations of India and Pakistan. The Indian Independence Act 1947 provided that the suzerainty of the British Crown over the princely states would simply be terminated, effective 15 August 1947. That would leave the princely states completely independent, even though many of them had been dependent on the Government of India for defence, finance, and other infrastructure. With independence, it would then be a matter for each ruler of a state to decide whether to accede to India, to accede to Pakistan, or to remain independent.\n\nThe Instrument of Accession was the legal document designed to bring about accession, where it was decided upon. It was executed by the Government of India on the one hand and by the rulers of each of the princely states, individually, on the other hand.\n\nAmong the more momentous of such accessions was that executed by Maharaja Hari Singh, ruler of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, on 26 October 1947. It gave control of Jammu and Kashmir to the government of India. The accession of Jammu and Kashmir was accepted by Lord Mountbatten of Burma, Governor-General of India, on 27 October 1947. The text (excluding the schedule mentioned in its third point) is as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48405939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48405939", "title": "Katherine Bitting", "text": "Katherine Bitting\n\nKatherine Golden Bitting (April 29, 1869 - October 15, 1937) was a food chemist for the United States Department of Agriculture, and the National Canners Association. She was a prolific author on the topic of food preservation. She and her husband, Arvril Bitting, donated a significant collection of materials related to cookery to the Library of Congress. Many modern food safety practices and techniques result directly from research conducted by Katherine and her husband Arvill.\n\nKatherine Bitting was born April 29, 1869, in Stratford, Ontario, Canada. Her family immigrated to Massachusetts in the United States when she was young. She married Arvill Wayne Bitting, a professor of veterinary science, cookery expert and author of several cookbooks. Katherine and Arvill Wayne Bitting formed a close partnership, working at the same institutions and collaborating on several publications.\n\nBitting graduated from the Salem Normal School, now Salem State University, in 1886. From Purdue University, she earned a Bachelor of Science degree in 1890, a Masters of Science in 1892, and a Doctor of Science in 1895. Bitting was an assistant botanist with the Purdue Agricultural Extension Station while completing her masters thesis. In 1893 she started working as an instructor at Purdue, teaching biology, structural botany, and bacteriology.\n\nIn September 1907 Bitting was appointed as a microanalyst in the chemistry division of the US Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, where she worked with Avril Bitting and gained expertise on food preservation and related topics, authoring nearly fifty pamphlets in that subject area. During her time at the Bureau of Chemistry, Katherine worked as a microbotanist. Her first job involved working with her husband to develop a method of producing ketchup without adding preservatives. To answer this question, the Bittings turned their Lafayette home into a ketchup factory, producing hundreds of bottles of the condiment. They collected ketchup samples from dozens of factories for analysis. Observing the samples and performing spoilage experiments, they determined that the addition of sugar and vinegar will prevent spoiling. Arvill Bitting published their findings under the title \"Experiments on the Spoilage of Tomato Ketchup\" in 1909. In 1915 two additional monographs were published. \"Ketchup Methods of Manufacturer\" and \"Microscopic.\" In the 1920s, the Bittings began working for the National Canners Association as microanalists. They published \"Appertizing or, The Art of Canning\" in 1937. The apparent mis-spelling is a reference to Nicolas Appert, the French inventor of airtight food preservation.\n\n\nTheir 4,346 volume collection of gastronomic literature from the fifteenth through twentieth centuries now resides at the Library of Congress's Rare Books and Special Collections Division. She amassed a large collection of materials in order: \"To facilitate her investigations, as the Annual Report of the Librarian of Congress (1940) states, she collected \"materials on the sources, preparation, and consumption of foods, their chemistry, bacteriology, preservations, etc., from earliest times to the present day.\" Curator Leonard N. Beck gave it a professional evaluation, pairing her collection with that of food writer Elizabeth Robins Pennell. The title, \"Two Loaf-Givers\", refers to the Old English etymology of \"lady\"; a digital version is available.\n\nIn 1895, the Indiana Academy of Science appointed her as a fellow member \n\n\n"}
{"id": "43324879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43324879", "title": "Kendal's Pocket Encyclopedia", "text": "Kendal's Pocket Encyclopedia\n\nKendal's Pocket Encyclopedia was printed in London in 1802 by W. Peacock and Sons, with a second edition in 1811.\n\n\"A Pocket Encyclopedia; Or, Library of General Knowledge, Being a Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, and Polite Literature\". It was six very small volumes in a choice of 16mo or 24mo (5 3/8\" tall), six individual tiny volumes, or six volumes in three as follows: Volume I: b&w frontis of 213pp; Volume II: 189pp; Volume III: 238pp. An encyclopedia which begins with \"Abbe, a French word literally meaning an abbot\" and ends with \"Zootomy, the art or act of dissecting animals or living creatures.\"\n\nThe author was Edward-Augustus Kendal. An American version, edited and enlarged, was the \"Minor Encyclopedia\".\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "42742979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42742979", "title": "Kites Museum of Indonesia", "text": "Kites Museum of Indonesia\n\nThe Kites Museum of Indonesia (Museum Layang-Layang Indonesia) is a museum in Pondok Labu, South Jakarta. It is the first kites museum in Indonesia. Its collection includes more than 600 kites.\n\nThe museum was built by Endang Ernawati in 2003, because she likes kites. She collected types of kites from across Indonesia and throughout the world.\n"}
{"id": "7285630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7285630", "title": "Lainzer Tiergarten", "text": "Lainzer Tiergarten\n\nThe Lainzer Tiergarten is a 24.50 km² (6,054-acre) wildlife preserve in the southwest corner of Vienna, Austria, 80% of it being covered in woodland. It dates back to 1561, when Ferdinand I of Austria created it as a fenced-in hunting ground for his family to use. Since 1919, it has been open to the public. Its name consists of its location by the Lainz district of Vienna's 13th District, and \"Tiergarten\", which means zoo (literally, \"animal garden\").\n\nThe Lainzer Tiergarten is located mostly in Vienna's 13th district, with a small adjacent portion lying in Laab im Walde, Lower Austria. The Wien River is located to its north, the Liesingbach to its south.\n\nEmperor Ferdinand I created the Lainzer Tiergarten in 1561. He had wooden fence built to enclose an area that he could use as a private hunting preserve. In 1781, a stone wall replaced the wooden fence. After the fall of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, the Austrian government declared the grounds a public nature preserve, though between 1940 and 1955, the entire grounds were closed to the public. Until 1973 access to the preserve required the payment of an admission fee. Since then admission is free.\n\nA large portion of the Lainzer Tiergarten was lost after World War I, when the \"Friedenstadt\" (\"Peace City\") neighborhood was constructed in its eastern portion. The old wall can still be seen in the \"Hörndlwald\" woods east of the Lainzer Tor.\n\nDue to construction of the Westautobahn in the 1960s, a corner in the northwest of the preserve was also lost. This time there was compensation, however, as a portion of the \"Laaber Wald\", adjacent to the southwest corner, was annexed.\n\nToday the Lainzer Tiergarten is home to between 800 and 1,000 wild boar, 200 to 250 fallow deer, approximately 700 mouflons, and 80 to 100 red deer (elk).\n\nThe preserve is surrounded by approximately of wall. There are seven gates, with different operating hours. Clockwise these are:\n\n\nThe entire preserve is open for approximately nine months of the year, from early March to early November. In the remaining months only the park around the Hermesvilla, accessible from the Lainzer Tor, is open. Between Christmas and the New Year, the entire park opens, but is only accessible from the Lainzer Tor and Nikolaitor.\n\nAs it is open year-round, and is home to a visitor center, the Lainzer Tor is the preserve's main gate. It is also the origin and the terminus of a walk to the Hermesvilla, which can often also be ridden via horse carriage. Public restrooms are also located near the gate, as is a water fountain. This is also one of two gates that has a parking lot.\n\nThe Lainzer Tor is located at the end of Hermesstraße, and is reachable using the 55A bus, which connects the gate to the 60 and 62 trams line at 15- to 20-minute intervals. These tram lines can be taken from the stop Speising, Hermesstraße, and connect to multiple U-Bahn and S-Bahn lines. Line 62 can also be taken directly from the Vienna Staatsoper to Hermesstraße.\n\nThe Gütenbachtor is located on Gütenbachstraße, and accesses the southeastern corner of the Lainzer Tiergarten. It also features a water fountain and a parking lot, but is a 45-minute walk from the nearest public transportation, regional bus lines 253 and 354.\n\nThe Laaber Tor is located by the Lower Austrian town of Laab am Walde. It accesses a separate corner of the Lainzer Tiergarten that was added in the 1960s as a compensation for territory that was lost in the north of the preserve when a highway was built. Visitors using this gate will pass the Dianator, which was the gate in this corner before the annexation of additional land. The Laaber Tor also has a water fountain.\n\nSimilar to the Gütenbachtor, the only public transportation within reach is the regional bus line 253, which is a 15-minute walk from this gate.\n\nThe Pulverstampftor is located in the northwest corner of the preserve, near the Auhof neighborhood of Vienna's 14th district. It features a water fountain, and can be accessed from the \"Umspannwerk Auhof\" stop of the regional bus line 50B from Hütteldorf (five-minute walk).\n\nDue to its location near the Hütteldorf railway station, the Nikolaitor is an important gate of the Lainzer Tiergarten. Hütteldorf can be accessed with the U-Bahn U4, S-Bahn S45, S50 and S60, tram line 49, as well as multiple bus lines. From the station it is a 10-minute walk across the Wien River to Nikolaigasse. This gate also features a water fountain.\n\nThe Adolfstor was located along the eastern wall of the Lainzer Tiergarten. It is now closed.\n\nThe Sankt Veiter Tor is directly accessible using a special hourly-served branch of the 54A bus line from the Ober Sankt Veit U-Bahn station. Higher-frequented bus lines to Ober St. Veit and the terminus of the 62 tram line, Lainz Wolkersbergenstraße, are available by walking down Hanschweg to Stock im Weg.\n\nThere are three restaurants, two scenic viewpoints, and one museum located within the Lainzer Tiergarten.\n\nFranz Joseph I of Austria commissioned the construction of the Hermesvilla, which was completed in 1886, and served as a getaway mansion for his wife. Today it serves as a museum and also contains a restaurant and café, which is highly frequented due to its close location to the Lainzer Tor. The property around the Hermesvilla is a special area of the Lainzer Tiergarten, fenced off from the rest of the preserve. Separate gates on the paths leading deeper into the park allow access to the larger section when this is open.\n\nBesides the Hermesvilla, visitors to the Lainzer Tiergarten can also eat and drink at the Hirschgstemm and Rohrhaus restaurants. These are located deeper in the reserve than the Hermesvilla, but also have full menus.\n\nThe Hubertuswarte is an observation tower, built in 1927, and located on the Kaltbründel Berg, the highest point in the preserve (508 meters/1667 ft). From the top of the tower, visitors have a 360-degree view of the region, including Vienna and neighboring villages.\n\nCloser to the city side of the Lainzer Tiergarten, the Wiener Blick offers a view of the city from 434 m (1424 ft). In July 2002, this observation point was visited by the Japanese Emperor Akihito and his wife Michiko.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "449381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449381", "title": "List of ciphertexts", "text": "List of ciphertexts\n\nSome famous ciphertexts (or cryptograms) are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30204810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30204810", "title": "Luminous-Lint", "text": "Luminous-Lint\n\nLuminous-Lint (or Luminous Lint) is a website on photography, run by Alan Griffiths, on vintage and contemporary photography. The site also serves as a collaborative knowledge base on the history of photography and includes some 60,000 photographs, 700 online exhibitions, biographies of more than 7,000 photographers, and information about techniques, galleries and dealers, photography timelines and other photography-related issues. Robert Hirsch has referred to it as a \"top-notch\" photographic site.\n\nThe site reproduces \"Photo Synthesis\", a series of articles on individual works that Colin Westerbeck first contributed to the \"Los Angeles Times.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "34307191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34307191", "title": "MacDuff v JCI", "text": "MacDuff v JCI\n\nMacDuff & Co Ltd (in Liquidation) v Johannesburg Consolidated Investment Co Ltd is the leading case in South African contract law on the issue of fictional fulfilment of suspensive conditions.\n\nThe case involved two companies: Johannesburg Consolidated Investment (JCI) was a minority shareholder in Macduff & Co. JCI had entered into a contract with Macduff whereby the latter would undergo voluntary liquidation. Macduff agreed that, once liquidated, it would transfer all its assets into a newly founded company under the auspices and supervision of JCI. In the agreement was a suspensive condition which permitted liquidation only if the shareholders of Macduff agreed to it.\n\nAt the time of contracting, this was a promising deal for JCI. When market conditions changed, however, it was no longer of much economic benefit. JCI accordingly bought up shares in Macduff, until it was the majority shareholder, and then voted against liquidation, deliberately obstructing the possibility of the occurrence of the suspensive condition in the contract.\n\nThe Appellate Division ruled that such obstruction was unlawful, and therefore that there was fictional fulfillment of the suspensive condition. JCI was thus held liable for breach of contract.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14403153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14403153", "title": "Mongol mythology", "text": "Mongol mythology\n\nThe Mongol mythology is the traditional religion of the Mongols.\n\nThere are many Mongol creation myths. In the most ancient one, the creation of the world is attributed to a Buddhist deity Lama. At the start of time there was only water, and from the heavens Lama came down to it holding an iron rod from which he began to stir. As he began to stir the water, the stirring brought about a wind and fire which caused a thickening at the center of the waters to form the earth. Another narrative also attributes the creation of heaven and earth to a lama who is called Udan. Udan began by separating earth from heaven, and then dividing heaven and earth both into nine stories, and creating nine rivers. After the creation of the earth itself, the first male and female couple were created out of clay. They would become the progenitors of all humanity.\n\nIn another example the world began as an agitating gas which grew increasingly warm and damp, precipitating a heavy rain that created the oceans. Dust and sand emerged to the surface and became earth. Yet another account tells of the Buddha Sakyamuni searching the surface of the sea for a means to create the earth and spotted a golden frog. From its east side, Buddha pierced the frog through, causing it to spin and face north. From its mouth burst fire and from its rump streamed water. Buddha tossed golden sand on his back which became land. And this was the origin of the five earthly elements, wood and metal from the arrow, and fire, water and sand. These myths date from the 17th century when Yellow Shamanism (Tibetan Buddhism using shamanistic forms) was established in Mongolia. Black Shamanism and White Shamanism from pre-Buddhist times survives only in far-northern Mongolia (around Lake Khuvsgul) and the region around Lake Baikal where Lamaist persecution had not been effective.\n\n\nThe wolf, falcon, deer and horse were important symbolic animals.\n\nThe Uliger are traditional epic tales and the Epic of King Gesar is shared with much of Central Asia and Tibet.\n\nThe \"Epic of King Gesar\" (Ges'r, Kesar) is a Mongol religious epic about \"Geser\" (also known as \"Bukhe Beligte\"), prophet of Tengriism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "88477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88477", "title": "Monterey Bay Aquarium", "text": "Monterey Bay Aquarium\n\nMonterey Bay Aquarium is a nonprofit public aquarium in Monterey, California. Known for its regional focus on the marine habitats of Monterey Bay, it was the first to exhibit a living kelp forest when it opened in October 1984. Its biologists have pioneered the animal husbandry of jellyfish and it was the first to successfully care for and display a great white shark. The organization's research and conservation efforts also focus on sea otters, various birds, and tunas. Seafood Watch, a sustainable seafood advisory list published by the aquarium beginning in 1999, has influenced the discussion surrounding sustainable seafood.\n\nEarly proposals to build a public aquarium in Monterey County were not successful until a group of four marine biologists affiliated with Stanford University revisited the concept in the late-1970s. Monterey Bay Aquarium was built at the site of a defunct sardine cannery and has been recognized for its architectural achievements by the American Institute of Architects. Along with its architecture, the aquarium has won numerous awards for its exhibition of marine life, ocean conservation efforts, and educational programs.\n\nMonterey Bay Aquarium receives around two million visitors each year. It led to the revitalization of Cannery Row, and produces hundreds of millions of dollars for the economy of Monterey County. In addition to being featured in two PBS \"Nature\" documentaries, the aquarium has appeared in film and television productions.\n\nIn the early 1960s, scientists at Stanford University's Hopkins Marine Station grew wary of the growing industry on Cannery Row. The station succeeded in convincing the university of their concerns in 1967, and Stanford University purchased the property on Cannery Row that housed the Hovden Cannery, a sardine cannery on the border of Monterey and Pacific Grove. Hovden Cannery closed in 1973 when its parent company moved the plant, and Hopkins used the facility as a warehouse. In the late1970s, however, Chuck Baxter and Robin Burnett—both faculty members at Hopkins—along with Nancy Burnett, a graduate of Moss Landing Marine Laboratories, and Steve Webster, faculty at San Jose State University, thought of building an aquarium on the Hovden Cannery site. Three separate proposals for an aquarium in Monterey County had already occurred in 1914, 1925, and 1944, but financial backing and public support for the idea was not sufficient. Nancy Burnett brought the group's interest to her parents, Lucile and David Packard (cofounder of Hewlett-Packard), and their foundation commissioned a feasibility study. An aquarium was predicted to attract 300,000 paying visitors annually with a potential future increase to 500,000 so, in April 1978, the Packards created the Monterey Bay Aquarium Foundation, which purchased the Hovden property from Stanford for nearly US$1 million. David Packard funded construction with an initial donation of $7 million with the caveat that the private nonprofit would be financially self-supporting after it opened. Due to an expansion of its planned exhibits—after visits to public aquariums in Japan—and the design and creation of exhibits inhouse, the Packards paid a final sum of $55 million.\n\nGeneral contracting firm Rudolph and Sletten predicted the building would take 31 months (two and a half years) to construct, but project manager Linda Rhodes and architectural firm Esherick, Homsey, Dodge, and Davis (EHDD) first had to design the facility to fit Cannery Row. Those involved intended to reconstruct Hovden Cannery rather than destroy it, and EHDD acknowledged that the latter would be \"a big disservice to our visiting public and to the community\". Concrete sections of the building were able to be kept, but other areas were repurposed; the cannery's old warehouse was converted into administrative offices, and a seawater system for the aquatic exhibits replaced the cannery's pump house that brought fish to the warehouse from floating storage tanks in the bay. The facility was constructed around the cannery's boiler house, which is preserved as a non-functioning public exhibit. As the building would reside partially over water, unique challenges occurred throughout construction. Nearly half of the aquarium would be located over the bay in depths of up to , requiring foundational elements to be installed during low tide, which often occurred at night. According to a project manager with Rudolph and Sletten, excavations were sometimes lost as the composition of the ground underneath beach sand was inconsistent.\n\nVarious elements of the building mirrored that of Hovden Cannery, including its windows (to let in sunlight), plain cement walls, structural protection from waves and storms, and its many roofs. Exposed pipes and ducts along the ceiling also contributed to the industrial style of buildings on Cannery Row. The ironic transition from a plant that processed fish to an aquarium which would display them didn't prevent the facility from appearing like a cannery, according to multiple journalists. The aquarium's successful representation of the cannery was acknowledged by the California Historical Society with a historical preservation award.\n\nWhen Monterey Bay Aquarium opened on October 20, 1984, it was the largest public aquarium in the United States. On opening day, 11,000 visited it and around 30,000 people attended the day's festivities. In reference to the disappearance of sardines (through overfishing), which caused the canneries to close, the aquarium said that \"the fish are back!\" Throughout the following year, 2.4 million people visited, which influenced assumptions about \"the ability of marine life to entertain, educate, and promote a city.\" Within five years, it was reported in the \"Los Angeles Times\" that it was among California's most popular visitor attractions. By 1994, it was the most attended aquarium in the United States. For its design, EHDD was awarded a National Honor Award from the American Institute of Architects in 1988. The institute's state chapter in California gave the facility its Twenty-five Year Award in 2011 and, in 2016, it was awarded the national Twenty-five Year Award, described as \"a benchmark and role model for aquariums everywhere.\"\n\nIn discussing the aquarium's conservation and education programs, its track record for entertaining visitors, and its reputation for collaboration, the head of the Association of Zoos and Aquariums described it as \"a definite leader\".\n\nAccording to a progress report during the aquarium's planning phase in 1980, the founders' efforts to build an aquarium developed from an interest in sharing marine life of the region with the public. This would be accomplished through its exhibits, featuring the aquatic habitats of Monterey Bay and central California. The idea to display marine habitats was inspired by the work of ecologist Ed Ricketts in his 1939 book on intertidal ecology, \"Between Pacific Tides\". In the early-1980s this was a unique approach to the design of public aquariums, as the two largest public aquariums at the time in the United States—Boston's New England Aquarium (1969) and Baltimore's National Aquarium (1981)—focused on \"magnificent coral reef exhibits or big sharks\", and displayed few local species.\n\nMonterey Bay Aquarium displays 35,000 animals belonging to over 550 species in of water. Filtered seawater from Monterey Bay is pumped into the Kelp Forest and other exhibits at per minute. At night, unfiltered seawater (or \"raw seawater\") is used for the Kelp Forest exhibit to maintain its realistic appearance. The use of unfiltered seawater allows animals to grow in the aquarium's plumbing so it must occasionally be cleaned with tools called pigs, which blast through the pipes under pressure to remove organisms and debris. Control systems that maintain this seawater system and other life support components for the animals are mostly automated, tracking various chemical parameters and reducing the likelihood for human error during repetitive tasks such as filter media backwashing. The seawater system is controlled by more than 10,000 data points.\n\nAt tall and long, the Kelp Forest exhibit is the focal point of Monterey Bay Aquarium's Ocean's Edge wing. Nearly three stories high, the exhibit is regarded as the first successful attempt to maintain a living kelp forest in an artificial setting. During the facility's planning and construction, professionals doubted that kelp could be grown in an aquarium at this scale. And, even if it could be grown, critics of the project did not think the public would be interested in seeing this representation of Monterey Bay. During the design phase, kelp scientists Wheeler North at the California Institute of Technology and Mike Neushal at the University of California, Santa Barbara informed the aquarium of the kelp's needs. The exhibit's success at sustaining giant kelp and its realistic appearance are attributed to the availability of direct sunlight, the use of natural seawater from Monterey Bay, and a surge machine (a large plunger) that replicates California's pulsing water currents. The surge machine, which plunges every 6 seconds, allows the kelp in the exhibit to grow an average of per day and was designed and constructed by David Packard.. Kelp forests are important ecosystems along California's coast—compared to tropical rainforests in their biodiversity—and, alongside giant kelp, the exhibit contains species of fish indigenous to Monterey Bay, including rockfishes and leopard sharks.\n\nIn 1996, Monterey Bay Aquarium opened a second wing of aquatic exhibits, focusing on the pelagic habitats found offshore in Monterey Bay. Costing US$57 million and taking seven years to develop, the wing almost doubled the aquarium’s public exhibit space. It consists of three separate galleries: various jellyfish and other plankton found in the bay; a pelagic, large community exhibit; and \"ocean travelers\", which features tufted puffins and sea turtles. When the exhibition opened, the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" reported the aquarium had the most jellyfish on exhibit in the world. In 1997, the Association of Zoos and Aquariums awarded the wing its Exhibit Award.\n\nHolding , the Open Sea community exhibit is the aquarium's largest tank. Made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic, it is long and deep. Its largest viewing window—at long and tall—was reportedly the largest aquarium window in the world when it was installed in 1996. To discourage animals from swimming into the window in the absence of visitors and injuring or killing themselves (as a Pacific bluefin tuna did in 2007), an air hose underneath the window generates a \"bubble wall\" in front of it throughout the night. In 2011, species reported to be in the exhibit included green sea turtles, sardines, pelagic stingrays, scalloped hammerhead sharks, sandbar sharks, mahi-mahi, mackerel, bluefin and yellowfin tunas, and ocean sunfishes. Historically, the exhibit also included blue sharks, soupfin sharks, and California barracuda. Six great white sharks were displayed in the Open Sea exhibit between 2004 and 2011, an effort contested by some but generally described as having a positive scientific and educational impact. Prior to the display of the first white shark for six months before its release, the longest length of time that a white shark survived in an aquarium was 16 days.\n\nA 10-month, US$19 million renovation of the wing concluded in July 2011 to refurbish the community exhibit. Turbulent swimming patterns of tunas were dismantling the exhibit's structural glass tiles, which the sea turtles were subsequently eating, so the exhibit was drained after all 10,000 animals were caught. Supplemental exhibits were added as part of this renovation featuring artwork that highlights current issues in ocean conservation, including overfishing and plastic pollution.\nMonterey Bay Aquarium opened in 1984 with 83 tanks in 12 galleries, which more than doubled by 2014 into 200 live animal exhibits. In addition to the Kelp Forest and Open Sea exhibits, there are two other prominent aquariums. The Monterey Bay Habitats tank, as its name suggests, represents various habitats in Monterey Bay, from wharfs to the sandy seafloor to deep rocky reefs. It is long and shaped like a figure eight, and holds over , a similar volume of seawater as the Kelp Forest exhibit. Many exhibits contain man-made structures that were left in the bay to accumulate living organisms prior to the aquarium's opening; in Monterey Bay Habitats, real pilings were obtained from the city's harbor department for the exhibit's wharf section. In others, artificial rocks tricked visitors and fish alike. With the aquarium's debut, this \"nature-faking\" via human manipulation did not trick some, but the fakeness' did not necessarily detract from the aquarium's intrinsic value.\"\n\nRescued sea otters live in a habitat holding , and are the only marine mammals exhibited. In 2014, the aquarium stated to the \"Vancouver Courier\" that it takes no official position on the controversy of captive killer whales or other cetaceans. The facility was not constructed to house cetaceans, and instead utilizes the 27 species of marine mammals that live in or travel through Monterey Bay as one of its \"exhibits\", as guests can view the bay and marine mammals from decks along the back of the building.\n\nMonterey Bay Aquarium was the first public aquarium to have its interior mapped on Google Street View, creating a virtual walking tour.\n\nMonterey Bay Aquarium began creating temporary exhibitions (or \"special exhibitions\") in the 1980s to display animals that are found outside of Monterey Bay. The first of these, titled \"Mexico's Secret Sea\", focused on the Sea of Cortez in 1989. Most exhibitions since then have focused on animal groups, including deep-sea animals (1999), sharks (2004), otters (2007), seahorses (2009), cephalopods (2014), and jellyfish. The 1997 \"Fishing for Solutions\" exhibition led to the development of the sustainable seafood program, Seafood Watch. In 2010, an exhibition titled \"Hot Pink Flamingos\" was one of the first aquarium exhibitions in the United States to explicitly discuss the effects of global warming on habitats and animals. Its content was successfully accessible and compelling to the public, but the exhibition was criticized for its narrow \"consumerist approach\" to climate change communication—promoting individual, marketplace-based actions rather than collective political ones. Terrestrial animals were displayed for the first time—including a tarantula, a snake, and a scorpion—in a US$3.8 million exhibit on ecosystems of Baja California that opened in 2016.\n\nAt least three exhibitions have been devoted entirely to displaying jellyfish. In 1989, the aquarium's second temporary exhibition, titled \"Living Treasures of the Pacific\", included three jellyfish tanks following the successful display of one tank of moon jellies four years earlier in 1985. In 1992, the first temporary exhibition for jellyfish opened, called \"Planet of the Jellies\", the success of which prompted a permanent jellyfish gallery within the Open Sea wing in 1996. Within 20 years of opening Planet of the Jellies, the aquarium created two more temporary exhibitions centered on jellyfish. The final one of the three exhibitions opened in 2012, and displayed around 16 species of jellyfish from around the world in \"a psychedelic theme from the 1960s\". Staff members attribute the organization’s fascination with jellyfish to their visual appeal, primitive biology, and reputed calming effect on visitors.\n\nMonterey Bay Aquarium helped create momentum for the establishment of the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary in 1992, one of the largest marine protected areas in the United States. In 2004, the aquarium created a formal division to become involved in United States ocean policy and law, working with the Pew Charitable Trusts and the United States Commission on Ocean Policy at the onset. Staff scientists have authored scientific publications involving sea otters, great white sharks, and bluefin tunas, which are important species in the northern Pacific Ocean. In addition to other animals, work has been published in the areas of veterinary medicine, visitor studies, and museum exhibition development. Among over 200 institutions accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, Monterey Bay Aquarium ranked 10th in scientific publication activity between 1993 and 2013.\n\nFor Monterey Bay Aquarium's captive animal propagation efforts, the Association of Zoos and Aquariums has granted two awards, including one for the aquarium's work with purple-striped jellies in 1992. It has also received the association's general conservation award for its Sea Otter Research and Conservation Program. In October 2017, the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums conferred its Conservation Award to the aquarium for its \"commitment to ocean protection and public awareness\".\n\nMonterey Bay Aquarium's Sea Otter Research and Conservation program began in 1984 to research and rehabilitate wild southern sea otters. more than 800 individuals had completed the rehabilitation program and researchers have collected data on wild sea otter populations using electronic tags. An otter rescued in 2001 began the program's surrogacy efforts, in which adult female sea otters that have been rehabilitated but cannot be released act as surrogate mothers to stranded sea otter pups. The aquarium was the only sea otter rehabilitation site in California until The Marine Mammal Center began expanding a program for sea otters in 2017. Its work with sea otters is featured in the PBS \"Nature\" episode titled \"Saving Otter 501\", which aired in October 2013.\n\nShorebirds, such as the threatened western snowy plover, are also rehabilitated and released. Since around 1998, the aquarium has worked with Point Blue Conservation Science to rescue western snowy plover eggs. The eggs hatch after being artificially incubated, and are raised until they are independent enough for release. The two organizations released 180 individuals in 2012, and about 100 individuals in 2013. The aquarium's endangered African penguins are part of an Association of Zoos and Aquariums species survival plan, a program that identifies genetically important birds and allows specific breeding activity to occur. Five chicks have hatched in the penguin colony as of 2014 and some of those have been sent to other accredited institutions. Beginning in June 2007, the aquarium operates a public presentation with its rehabilitated Laysan albatross that has a wingspan of . The program's goal is to inform visitors of the dangers that ocean plastic pollution causes for animals, especially the 21 species of albatrosses.\n\nPacific bluefin and yellowfin tunas have been historically displayed in the Open Sea community exhibit, some reaching more than . In 2011, three dozen fishes of the two species were on exhibit. Prior to opening the Open Sea wing in 1996, the aquarium established the Tuna Research and Conservation Center in 1994 in partnership with Stanford University's Hopkins Marine Station. Staff scientists and Barbara Block—professor of marine sciences at Stanford University—have tagged wild Pacific bluefin tunas to study predator-prey relationships, and have also investigated tuna endothermy with captive tunas at the center. To improve international collaboration of bluefin tuna management, Monterey Bay Aquarium and Stanford University hosted a symposium in January 2016 in Monterey. Over 200 scientists, fisheries managers, and policy makers gathered to discuss solutions to the decline of Pacific bluefin tuna populations.\n\nAquarists also propagate animals behind-the-scenes for the public exhibits. Since 1985, the aquarium has been deeply involved in jellyfish propagation, creating three temporary exhibitions and one permanent gallery (within the Open Sea wing). The organization's jellyfish collections have been the largest in the world, and its pioneering work with the animals resulted in a trend of jellyfish exhibitions in the United States. In August 2016, aquarists cultured comb jellies for the first time in a laboratory, which may allow them to become a model organism. Beginning in 2012, the aquarium began to breed many species of cephalopods in preparation for a temporary exhibition that opened in 2014. For the duration of the exhibition, half of the animals were cultured because of their short life cycles. A display in the exhibition showcased how aquarists rear different species of cephalopods, including bigfin reef squid, which live for only about six months. In partnership with Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute, at least two deep-sea cephalopod species were displayed in the exhibition, including flapjack octopuses and the vampire squid.\n\nIn 1984, Monterey Bay Aquarium's first attempt to display a great white shark lasted 11 days, ending when the shark died because it did not eat. Through a later program named Project White Shark, six white sharks were exhibited between 2004 and 2011 in the Open Sea community exhibit, which was constructed in the 1990s. Researchers at universities in California attributed the aquarium's success at exhibiting white sharks to the use of a net pen, which gave the sharks time to recover from capture prior to transport. A portable tank used to transport the fish to the exhibit allowed the sharks to swim continuously, which they must do in order to respire. These endeavors led to the first instance of a white shark eating in an aquarium.\n\nAt least one organization—the Pelagic Shark Research Foundation based in Santa Cruz, California—criticized the aquarium for attempting to keep white sharks in captivity, questioning the significance of possible scientific research and the ability to educate visitors. However, several independent biologists expressed approval for Project White Shark because of its logistical design, educational impact, and scientific insights. Regarding its educational impact, a white shark researcher from Australia stated in 2006 that \"the fact people can come and see these animals and learn from them is of immeasurable value.\" The first captive white shark—on exhibit in 2004 for more than six months—was seen by one million visitors, and another million visitors saw either the second or third white sharks on display. In 198 days, the first white shark grew more than and gained over prior to its release. Monterey Bay Aquarium is the only public aquarium in the world to have successfully exhibited a white shark for longer than 16 days.\n\nThe effort to display captive white sharks ended in 2011 due to the project's high resource intensity. Captive white sharks also incurred injuries and killed other animals in the exhibit after becoming increasingly aggressive, and the final shark died due to unknown reasons immediately following its release. Although no longer on exhibit for the public, aquarium researchers have continued to conduct research on white sharks. Collaborating with Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute in June 2016, staff scientists created cameras attached to harmless dorsal fin tags in an attempt to study the behavior of white sharks during their gathering known as the White Shark Café.\n\nMonterey Bay Aquarium’s consumer-based Seafood Watch program encourages sustainable seafood purchasing from fisheries that are \"well managed and caught or farmed in ways that cause little harm to habitats or other wildlife.\" It began in 1999 as a result of a popular component of a temporary exhibition and has grown to consist of a website, six regional pocket guides, and mobile apps that allow consumers to check the sustainability ratings of specific fisheries. The program has expanded to include business collaborations, local and national restaurant and grocer partnerships, and outreach partnerships—primarily other public aquariums and zoos. Large-scale business and grocer affiliations include Aramark, Compass Group, Target, and Whole Foods Market. In both 2009 and 2015, Seafood Watch was reportedly playing an influential role in the discussion regarding seafood sustainability. According to the aquarium, the program's efficacy is driven by its work with both businesses and consumers, and is supported by the organization's expanding science and ocean policy programs.\n\nIn the late-2000s, Seafood Watch was likely the most known and most widely distributed sustainable seafood guide out of around 200 internationally. By 2014, fifteen years after its inception, the program had produced more than 52 million printed pocket guides. Its mobile apps were downloaded over one million times between 2009 and 2015. In 2003, the program's website was granted a MUSE Award from the American Alliance of Museums for use of media and technology in science. \"Bon Appétit\" magazine awarded its Tastemaker of the Year award to Seafood Watch in 2008 and, in 2013, \"Sunset\" magazine described it as one of \"the most effective consumer-awareness programs\".\n\nIn September 2016, the United States Agency for International Development announced it was cooperating with the aquarium to improve fisheries management in the Asia-Pacific.\n\nMonterey Bay Aquarium plays an active role in federal and state politics, from sponsoring governmental legislation about the ocean to persuading voter action from its visitors and online followers. The aquarium was a leading sponsor for the statewide shark fin ban in 2011. After the ban’s success its efforts shifted to focus on ocean plastic pollution, supporting successful legislation which restricted the use of microbeads in personal care products. In support of California Proposition 67 (2016), the organization produced advertisements, web pages, and podcasts in favor of a statewide ban on single-use plastic grocery bags. The aquarium is a founding member of a partnership between 20 public aquariums for collaborating on policy-based conservation efforts. This partnership, called the Aquarium Conservation Partnership, hosted a plastic pollution conference at Monterey Bay Aquarium in December 2016. In July 2017, the aquarium and other members of the partnership began eliminating their own plastic products, such as plastic bags, straws, and bottles.\n\nThe aquarium is a founding partner of the Ocean Project, which conducts national public opinion surveys about aquariums and environmental issues. And, along with Stanford University, it runs an organization involved in ocean science, policy, and law called the Center for Ocean Solutions. The aquarium has participated in several international conferences that focus on ocean policy, including the 2017 United Nations Ocean Conference. In March 2017, Monterey Bay Aquarium publicly endorsed the March for Science—a series of rallies and marches that occurred around the world on Earth Day the following April—and its penguins marched in their own miniature demonstration.\n\nEach year approximately 75,000 students, teachers, and chaperones from California access Monterey Bay Aquarium for free. An additional 1,500 low-income students, 350 teenagers, and 1,200 teachers participate in structured educational programs throughout the year. Between 1984 and 2014, the aquarium hosted more than 2 million students. In 2009, the aquarium and others collaborated to create an online resource called \"Climate Interpreter\", which is used by other zoological institutions, government agencies, and academic institutions to share materials for interpreting climate change to the public.\n\nA , US$30 million education center being developed by the aquarium is expected to open in 2018, and will double the number of students and teachers it is able to work with each year. Monterey Bay Aquarium received a Webby Award in 2000 for \"distributing information related to scientific exploration\" and has won four awards from the Association of Zoos and Aquariums for its programs in the categories of education and diversity. In 2015, the Silicon Valley Business Journal awarded the aquarium with a Community Impact Award for its efforts to \"shape a new generation of ocean conservation leaders.\"\n\nMonterey Bay Aquarium employed over 500 people and had 1,200 active volunteers in 2015. Between 1984 and 2014, 8,500 volunteers donated 3.2 million community service hours. The aquarium attracts around 2 million visitors each year and, through 2016, over 50 million people had visited. Out of the 51 accredited public aquariums in the United States in 2015, Monterey Bay Aquarium's 2.08 million visitors ranked it second by number of visits, behind Georgia Aquarium's 2.2 million. In 2015, it served 290,000 annual members.\n\nFree admission programs are offered for Monterey County residents including \"Shelf to Shore\", with the county's free library system, and \"Free to Learn\", with local nonprofit organizations and Monterey–Salinas Transit. Additionally, the aquarium offers free admission to Monterey County residents during a weeklong event in December, which grew from almost 17,000 visitors in 1998 to 50,000 visitors in 2013. In 2014, the program was expanded to include neighboring Santa Cruz and San Benito counties. An annual event called \"Día del Niño\" offers bilingual feeding presentations (in Spanish), activities, and free admission for children under the age of 13. Between 2002 and 2014, over 700,000 people visited for free through outreach programs.\n\nIn 2013, the aquarium’s operational spending and its 2 million visitors generated US$263 million to the economy of Monterey County. In August 2016, an event during one evening raised over US$110,000 for the Community Foundation for Monterey County’s drive to provide relief for the Soberanes Fire.\n\nMonterey Bay Aquarium has been featured in two documentaries on the wildlife television program \"Nature\"; filmmakers were given behind-the-scenes access for \"Oceans in Glass\" in 2006, and \"Saving Otter 501\" followed the aquarium’s sea otter rehabilitation program in 2013. It also heavily supported and was featured in BBC's \"Big Blue Live\", a 2015 live television program about Monterey Bay that won a BAFTA TV Award in 2016. The aquarium served as the filming location for the fictitious Cetacean Institute in the 1986 film \"\". In the 2016 film \"Finding Dory\", the aquarium inspired the design of the fish hospital that the characters visit, and its animals served as models for the film's animated characters. A scene from the HBO miniseries \"Big Little Lies\", which aired in 2017, was filmed there.\n\nAfter comparing the aquarium's visitor feedback to the feedback of other attractions, the media and the travel industry have given it top awards. In 2014, TripAdvisor ranked it as the number one public aquarium in the world and, in 2015, it ranked second. In 2015, it was listed by \"Parents\" magazine as the top public aquarium in the United States and the highest rated destination on the West Coast. Frommer's travel guide lists Monterey Bay Aquarium as \"exceptional\", the highest rating on its three-tier system.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1797459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797459", "title": "Mourning Athena", "text": "Mourning Athena\n\nThe so-called Mourning Athena is an Athenian marble relief dated circa 460 BC. The goddess, marked by her helmet of the Corinthian type, wears a peplos, clasped at the shoulders and cinched at the waist. She rests her right hand on her hip and crosses her left leg over her right. Her left hand grasps a spear on which she leans, and her head is inclined. The meaning of her bowed head has been a matter of debate since the relief's excavation from the Acropolis of Athens in 1888. As the conventional name suggests, many have taken the posture to indicate sadness or pensiveness, and thus to interpret the rectangular object on the viewer's right as a stele, a stone slab that serves as a grave marker. Others see an 'exhausted Athena', and others still see no such emotion. The exact nature of the rectangular object, too, is unclear – some suggest that an object was perched atop it (e.g., the infant Erichthonius) – others that it is a marker from a race-course.\n\nThe relief is 0.48 m high and made of Parian marble. It is displayed at the Acropolis Museum in Athens, inventory no. 695.\n\n"}
{"id": "7913940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7913940", "title": "Names of European cities in different languages (C–D)", "text": "Names of European cities in different languages (C–D)\n"}
{"id": "511292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=511292", "title": "Out-group homogeneity", "text": "Out-group homogeneity\n\nThe out-group homogeneity effect is one's perception of out-group members as more similar to one another than are in-group members, e.g. \"they are alike; we are diverse\". The term \"outgroup homogeneity effect\", \"outgroup homogeneity bias\" or \"relative outgroup homogeneity\" has been explicitly contrasted with \"outgroup homogeneity\" in general, the latter referring to perceived outgroup variability unrelated to perceptions of the ingroup.\n\nThe out-group homogeneity effect is part of a broader field of research that examines perceived group variability. This area includes in-group homogeneity effects as well as out-group homogeneity effects, and it also deals with perceived group variability effects that are not linked to in-group/out-group membership, such as effects that are related to the power, status, and size of groups.\n\nThe out-group homogeneity effect has been found using a wide variety of different social groups, from political and racial groups to age and gender groups.\n\nThe implications of this effect on stereotyping have been noted. Perceivers tend to have impressions about the diversity or variability of group members around those central tendencies or typical attributes of those group members. Thus, outgroup stereotypicality judgments are overestimated, supporting the view that out-group stereotypes are overgeneralizations.\n\nThe outgroup homogeneity effect is sometimes referred to as \"outgroup homogeneity bias\". Such nomenclature hints at a broader meta-theoretical debate that is present in the field of social psychology. This debate centres on the validity of heightened perceptions of ingroup and outgroup homogeneity, where some researchers view the homogeneity effect as an example of cognitive bias and error, while other researchers view the effect as an example of normal and often adaptive social perception.\n\nAnother example of this phenomenon comes from a study where researchers asked 90 sorority members to judge the degree of within-group similarity for their own and 2 other groups. It was found that every participant judged their own sorority members to be more dissimilar than the members of the other groups.\n\nIn an experiment, researchers revealed that people of other races do seem to look more alike than members of one's own race. When white students were shown faces of a few white and a few black individuals, they later more accurately recognized white faces they had seen and often falsely recognized black faces not seen before. The opposite results were found when subjects consisted of black individuals.\n\nThis bias was found to be unrelated to the number of group and non-group members individuals knew. One might think that people thought members of their own groups were more varied and different simply because they knew them better and thus have more information about ingroups, but this is actually not the case. The out-group homogeneity bias was found between groups such as \"men\" and \"women\" who obviously interact frequently.\n\nElsewhere, this difference is attributed to differences in how people store or process in-group versus out-group information. However, this concept has been challenged due to some cases in which in-groups view themselves as homogeneous. Researchers have postulated that such an effect is present when viewing a group as homogeneous helps to promote in-group solidarity. Experiments on the topic found that in-group homogeneity is displayed when people who highly identify with a group are presented with stereotypical information about that group.\n\nSelf-categorization theory attributes the outgroup homogeneity effect to the differing contexts that are present when perceiving outgroups and ingroups. For outgroups, a perceiver will experience an intergroup context and therefore attend to differences between the two groups. Consequently, less attention is paid to differences between outgroup members and this leads to perceptions of outgroup homogeneity. When perceiving ingroup members a perceiver may experience either an intergroup context or an \"intragroup\" context. In an intergroup context the ingroup would also be predicted to be seen as comparatively homogeneous as the perceiver attends to the differences between “us” and “them” (in other words, depersonalization occurs). However, in an intragroup context the perceiver may be motivated to attend to differences with the group (between “me” and “others in the group”) leading to perceptions of comparative ingroup heterogeneity. As perceivers are less often motivated to perform intra-group outgroup comparison, this leads to an overall outgroup homogeneity effect.\n\nThe self-categorization theory account is supported by evidence showing that in an intergroup context both the ingroup and outgroup will be perceived as more homogenous, while when judged in isolation the ingroup will be perceived as comparatively heterogeneous. The self-categorization theory account eliminates the need to posit differing processing mechanisms for ingroups and outgroups, as well as accounting for findings of outgroup homogeneity in the minimal group paradigm.\n\nAnother body of research looked at ingroup and outgroup homogeneity from the perspective of social identity theory. While complementary to the self-categorization theory account, this body of research was concerned more with specific homogeneity effects associated with the motivations of perceivers. They derived from social identity theory the prediction that comparative \"ingroup\" homogeneity will at times arise due to demands to establish a positive and distinct social identity. For example, members of minority groups would be particularly likely to accentuate intragroup solidity through the emphasis of ingroup homogeneity. This is because minority group members, due to their minority status, are likely to experience threat to their self-esteem. This was empirically supported.\n\nWithin the same tradition it was also hypothesised that an ingroup homogeneity effect would emerge on ingroup defining dimensions for both minority and majority group members. This too was empirically supported. Recent research also has reaffirmed that this effect of in-group homogeneity on in-group defining dimensions and out-group homogeneity on out-group defining dimensions may occur because people use their ratings of perceived group variability to express the extent to which social groups possess specific characteristics. Like the self-categorization theory account, this recent research also suggests that the effect may occur \"independent\" of the motivational concerns described in social identity theory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "283329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283329", "title": "Personal information management", "text": "Personal information management\n\nPersonally information management (PIM) is the activities people perform in order to acquire, organize, maintain, retrieve and use personal information items such as documents (paper-based and digital), web pages and email messages for everyday use to complete tasks (work-related or not) and fulfill a person's various roles (as parent, employee, friend, member of community, etc.). More simply, \"PIM is the art of getting things done in our lives through information.\"\n\nPractically, PIM is concerned with how people organize and maintain personal information collections, and methods that can help people in doing so. People may manage information in a variety of settings, for a variety of reasons, and with a variety of types of information. For example, an office worker might manage physical documents in a filing cabinet by placing them in folders organized alphabetically by project name, or might manage digital documents in folders in a hierarchical file system. A parent might collect and organize photographs of their children into a photo album using a temporal organization scheme, or might tag digital photos with the names of the children.\n\nPIM considers not only the methods used to store and organize information, but also is concerned with how people retrieve information from their collections for re-use. For example, the office worker might re-locate a physical document by remembering the name of the project and then finding the appropriate folder by an alphabetical search. On a computer system with a hierarchical file system, a person might need to remember the top-level folder in which a document is located, and then browse through the folder contents to navigate to the desired document. Email systems often support additional methods for re-finding such as fielded search (e.g., search by sender, subject, date). The characteristics of the document types, the data that can be used to describe them (meta-data), and features of the systems used to store and organize them (e.g. fielded search) are all components that may influence how users accomplish personal information management.\n\nStudying, understanding, and practicing PIM can help individuals and organizations work more effectively and efficiently, can help people deal with \"information overload\", and can highlight useful strategies for archiving, organizing, and facilitating access to saved information.\n\nThere are six ways in which information can be personal: \n\nOne ideal of PIM is that people should always have the right information in the right place, in the right form, and of sufficient completeness and quality to meet their current need. Technologies and tools such as personal information managers help people spend less time with time-consuming and error-prone activities of PIM (such as looking for and organising information). They then have more and better insight in making creative, intelligent use of their time, or to simply enjoy the information itself.\n\nPIM is a new field with ancient roots. When the oral rather than the written word dominated, human memory was the primary means for information preservation. As information was increasingly rendered in paper form, tools were developed over time to meet the growing challenges of management. For example, the vertical filing cabinet, now such a standard feature of home and workplace offices, was first commercially available in 1893.\n\nWith the increasing availability of computers in the 1950s came an interest in the computer as a source of metaphors and a test bed for efforts to understand the human ability to process information and to solve\nproblems. Newell and Simon pioneered the computer's use as a tool to model human thought. They produced \"The Logic Theorist,\" generally thought to be the first running artificial intelligence (AI) program. The computer of the 1950s was also an inspiration for the development of an information processing approach to human behavior and performance. After the 1950s research showed that the computer, as a symbol processor, could \"think\" (to varying degrees of fidelity) like people do, the 1960s saw an increasing interest in the use of the computer to help people to think better and to process information more effectively. Working with Andries van Dam and others, Ted Nelson, who coined the word \"hypertext\", developed one of the first hypertext systems, The Hypertext Editing System, in 1968. That same year, Douglas Engelbart also completed work on a hypertext system called NLS (oN-Line System). Engelbart advanced the notion that the computer could be used to augment the human intellect. As heralded by the publication of Ulric Neisser's book Cognitive Psychology, the 1960s also saw the emergence of cognitive psychology as a discipline that focused primarily on a better understanding of the human ability to think, learn, and remember.\n\nThe computer as aid to the individual, rather than remote number cruncher in a refrigerated room, gained further validity from work in the late 1970s and through the 1980s to produce personal computers of increasing power and portability. These trends continue: computational power roughly equivalent to that of a desktop computer of a decade ago can now be found in devices that fit into the palm of a hand.\nThe phrase \"Personal Information Management\" was itself apparently first used in the 1980s in the midst of general excitement over the potential of the personal computer to greatly enhance the human ability to process and manage information. The 1980s also saw the advent of so-called \"PIM tools\" that provided limited support for the management of such things as appointments and scheduling, to-do lists, phone numbers, and addresses. A community dedicated to the study and improvement of human–computer interaction also emerged in the 1980s.\n\nAs befits the \"information\" focus of PIM, PIM-relevant research of the 1980s and 1990s extended beyond the study of a particular device or application towards larger ecosystems of information management to\ninclude, for example, the organization of the physical office and the management of paperwork. Malone characterized personal organization strategies as 'neat' or 'messy' and described 'filing' and 'piling' approaches to the organization of information. Other studies showed that people vary their methods for keeping information according to anticipated uses of that information in the future. Studies explored the practical implications that human memory research might carry in the design of, for example, personal filing systems, and information retrieval systems. Studies demonstrated a preference for navigation (browsing, \"location-based finding) in the return to personal files, a preference that endures today notwithstanding significant improvements in search support. and an increasing use of search as the preferred method of return to e-mails.\n\nPIM, as a contemporary field of inquiry with a self-identified community of researchers, traces its origins to a Special Interest Group (SIG) session on PIM at the CHI 2004 conference and to a special National Science Foundation (NSF)-sponsored workshop held in Seattle in 2005.\n\nInterest in the study of PIM has increased in recent years. One goal in the study of PIM is to identify ways to introduce new tool support without inadvertently increasing the complexity of a person's information management challenge. The study of PIM means understanding better how people manage information across tools and over time. It is not enough simply to study, for example, e-mail use in isolation. A related point is that the value of a new tool must be assessed over time and in a broader context of a person's various PIM activities.\n\nPIM research can be organized according to the three main PIM activities:\n\nFinding and re-finding information can take place in a public space (e.g. the Internet) or private (e.g. a person's hard drive).\nResearch on finding is largely focused on finding public information (e.g.) and on how people search and use information (human information behavior). For re-finding a person has to a) remember (to look), recall and recognize, and repeat. Remembering to look is difficult even when using online bookmarks. Recall and recognize is what typically happens when people do a (desktop) search by typing in search terms and then scanning the list of results until they recognize what they are looking for. The whole process of remembering, recalling and recognizing is repeated in case the information sought consists of multiple parts.\n\nWhen people encounter information it can be consumed immediately (e.g. a game score) or keep it for later use in which case a decision needs to be made of how and where to keep it so it can be found again. This process is error prone. Filing and tagging information is difficult because people often fail to remember existing folders and tags and create new instances leading to information dispersion.\n\nMeta activities are strategic activities that consider a person's information collections, how their information is organized and how well this organization is working, and whether the information is secure and backed up. Making sense of and using information after it has been found is also part of these activities. Generally people struggle to organize their information, and usually don't have reliable backup routines.\n\nA challenge in PIM research is to develop more practical methods for study of current PIM practices with more practical implications for the development of improved tools, techniques and training in support of better PIM. PIM requires the study of people, with a diversity of backgrounds and needs, over time as they work in many different situations, with different forms of information and different tools of information management. This scope of PIM inquiry brings a need for practical, cost-effective methodologies that can scale. Further, there is a need not only for descriptive studies aimed at better understanding how people currently practice PIM but also for prescriptive studies aimed both at evaluation and also towards the recommendation of proposed solutions in the form of new, improved tools, techniques and strategies of PIM.\n\nIt has been noted that the nature of PIM makes its study challenging in the extreme. Researchers seek to understand how people manage information using tools of information management. But it is important that the information managed be \"personal\". Traditional laboratory tasks risk abstracting away the \"personal\" from PIM. Furthermore, people don't just keep information; they keep information within the established organizations of their personal spaces of information (PSIs) – the folder structure of their laptop, or the drawers and layout of their physical desktop or a Facebook timeline.\n\nThere are a number of tools available for managing personal information, but these tools can become a part of the problem leading to \"information fragmentation\". Different devices and applications often come with their separate ways of storing and organizing information. \"NOTE:\" Many people confuse PIM tools with the study and practice of personal information management itself. See personal information manager for information about tools for personal information management.\n\nPIM shares considerable, potentially synergistic overlap with disciplines such as cognitive science, human-computer interaction, information science, artificial intelligence, database management and information retrieval. PIM relates to but differs from other fields of inquiry that study the interactions between people, information and technology, personal network management.\n\nCognitive psychology, as the study of how people learn and remember, problem solve, and make decisions, necessarily also includes the study of how people make smart use of available information. The related field of cognitive science, in its efforts to apply these questions more broadly to the study and simulation of intelligent behavior, is also related to PIM. Cognitive science has strong connections to, some would say subsumes, the field of artificial intelligence.\n\nThere is great potential for a mutually beneficial interplay between cognitive science and PIM. Sub-areas of cognitive science of clear relevance to PIM include problem solving and decision making. For example, folders created to hold information for a big project such as \"plan my wedding\" may sometimes resemble a problem-decomposition. To take another example, signal detection task has long been used to frame and explain human behavior and has recently been used as a basis for analyzing our choices concerning what information to keep and how – a key activity of PIM.\n\nOr consider categorization and concept formation. How are categories and concepts learned and used? Categories and concepts cannot be seen directly but may be reflected in the tags and folders people use to organize their information. Or consider the activities of reading and writing. Both are areas of study in cognitive psychology with clear relevance to the study of PIM.\n\nNow large portions of a document may be the product of \"copy-and-paste\" operations (from our previous writings) rather than a product of original writing. Certainly, management of text pieces pasted for re-use is a PIM activity, and this raises several interesting questions. How do we go about deciding when to re-use and when to write from scratch? We may sometimes spend more time chasing down a paragraph we have previously written than it would have taken to simply write a new paragraph expressing the same thoughts. Beyond this, we can wonder at what point a reliance on an increasing (and increasingly available) supply of previously written material begins to impact our creativity.\n\nAs people do PIM they work in an external environment that includes other people, available technology and organizational setting. This means that situated cognition, distributed cognition, and social cognition all relate to the study of PIM.\n\nThe study of PIM is also related to the field of human–computer interaction (HCI). But PIM research puts emphasis on the broader study of how people manage their information over time using a variety of tools – some computer-based, some not.\n\nThe user-subjective approach is the first approach dedicated specifically to PIM systems design. Its theoretical foundations were first published in a \"Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology\" paper in 2003. Another JASIST paper with evidence and implementation for the approach was published in 2008. The paper had won the Best JASIST Paper award in 2009. The first user-subjective design scheme was developed and positively evaluated in a Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems paper published in 2009.\n\nGroup information management (GIM, usually pronounced with a soft \"G\") has been written about elsewhere in the context of PIM. The study of GIM, in turn, has clear relevance to the study of computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW). As a useful way to relate acronyms we can say that GIM is to CSCW as PIM is to HCI (human–computer interaction). Concerns of PIM substantially overlap with but are not fully subsumed by concerns of HCI (nor vice versa). Indeed, some of the more influential papers on PIM over the years have been published in HCI journals and conference proceedings .\n\nHowever, the \"I\" in PIM is for information – how can we as individuals (the \"P\"), better manage (the \"M\") our information (in all 6 senses as listed above) regardless of the form it takes – papers and books, digital documents and emails or even the letter magnets on a refrigerator in the kitchen. The \"I\" in HCI stands for \"interaction\" as this relates to the \"C\" – computers. \nA similar distinction can be made with respect to GIM and CSCW.\n\nThe study of information management and knowledge management in organizations relates to the study of PIM. Jones notes that issues seen first at an organizational level often migrate to the PIM domain.\n\nPIM can help to motivate and will also benefit from work in information retrieval and database management. For example, data mining techniques might be applied to mine and structure personal information.\n\nBy similar argument, a discussion of time management or task management on a personal level quickly takes us back to a discussion of PIM. Both time and task management make heavy use of information tools and external forms of information such as to-do lists, calendars, timelines, Gantt charts, etc.; this information, to be managed like other information.\n\nPersonal network management (PNM) is a crucial aspect of PIM and can be understood as the practice of managing the links and connections for social and professional benefits.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3316627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3316627", "title": "Rank correlation", "text": "Rank correlation\n\nIn statistics, a rank correlation is any of several statistics that measure an ordinal association—the relationship between rankings of different ordinal variables or different rankings of the same variable, where a \"ranking\" is the assignment of the ordering labels \"first\", \"second\", \"third\", etc. to different observations of a particular variable. A rank correlation coefficient measures the degree of similarity between two rankings, and can be used to assess the significance of the relation between them. For example, two common nonparametric methods of significance that use rank correlation are the Mann–Whitney U test and the Wilcoxon signed-rank test.\n\nIf, for example, one variable is the identity of a college basketball program and another variable is the identity of a college football program, one could test for a relationship between the poll rankings of the two types of program: do colleges with a higher-ranked basketball program tend to have a higher-ranked football program? A rank correlation coefficient can measure that relationship, and the measure of significance of the rank correlation coefficient can show whether the measured relationship is small enough to likely be a coincidence.\n\nIf there is only one variable, the identity of a college football program, but it is subject to two different poll rankings (say, one by coaches and one by sportswriters), then the similarity of the two different polls' rankings can be measured with a rank correlation coefficient.\n\nAs another example, in a contingency table with \"low income\", \"medium income\", and \"high income\" in the row variable and educational level—\"no high school\", \"high school\", \"university\"—in the column variable), a rank correlation measures the relationship between income and educational level.\n\nSome of the more popular rank correlation statistics include\n\nAn increasing rank correlation coefficient implies increasing agreement between rankings. The coefficient is inside the interval [−1, 1] and assumes the value:\n\n\nFollowing , a ranking can be seen as a permutation of a set of objects. Thus we can look at observed rankings as data obtained when the sample space is (identified with) a symmetric group. We can then introduce a metric, making the symmetric group into a metric space. Different metrics will correspond to different rank correlations.\n\n showed that his formula_1 (tau) and Spearman's formula_2 (rho) are particular cases of a general correlation coefficient.\n\nSuppose we have a set of formula_3 objects, which are being considered in relation to two properties, represented by formula_4 and formula_5, forming the sets of values formula_6 and formula_7. To any pair of individuals, say the formula_8-th and the formula_9-th we assign a formula_4-score, denoted by formula_11, and a formula_5-score, denoted by formula_13. (Note, as these are comparisons, formula_11 and formula_13 do not exist for formula_16.) The only requirement for these functions is that they be anti-symmetric, so formula_17 and formula_18. Then the generalized correlation coefficient formula_19 is defined as\n\nIf formula_22, formula_23 are the ranks of the formula_8-member according to the formula_4-quality and formula_5-quality respectively, then we can define\n\nThe sum formula_28 is the number of concordant pairs minus the number of discordant pairs (see Kendall tau rank correlation coefficient). The sum formula_29 is just formula_30, the number of terms formula_11, as is formula_32. Thus in this case, \n\nIf formula_22, formula_23 are the ranks of the formula_8-member according to the formula_4 and the formula_5-quality respectively, we can simply define\n\nThe sums formula_29 and formula_32 are equal, since both formula_22 and formula_23 range from formula_46 to formula_3. Then we have:\n\nnow\n\nWe also have\nand hence\n\nformula_52 being the sum of squares of the first formula_3 naturals equals formula_54. Thus, the last equation reduces to\n\nFurther\n\nand thus, substituting into the original formula these results we get\nwhere formula_59 is the difference between ranks.\n\nwhich is exactly Spearman's rank correlation coefficient formula_2.\n\nGene Glass (1965) noted that the rank-biserial can be derived from Spearman's formula_2. \"One can derive a coefficient defined on X, the dichotomous variable, and Y, the ranking variable, which estimates Spearman's rho between X and Y in the same way that biserial r estimates Pearson's r between two normal variables” (p. 91). The rank-biserial correlation had been introduced nine years before by Edward Cureton (1956) as a measure of rank correlation when the ranks are in two groups.\n\nDave Kerby (2014) recommended the rank-biserial as the measure to introduce students to rank correlation, because the general logic can be explained at an introductory level. The rank-biserial is the correlation used with the Mann–Whitney U test, a method commonly covered in introductory college courses on statistics. The data for this test consists of two groups; and for each member of the groups, the outcome is ranked for the study as a whole.\n\nKerby showed that this rank correlation can be expressed in terms of two concepts: the percent of data that support a stated hypothesis, and the percent of data that do not support it. The Kerby simple difference formula states that the rank correlation can be expressed as the difference between the proportion of favorable evidence (\"f\") minus the proportion of unfavorable evidence (\"u\"). \n\nTo illustrate the computation, suppose a coach trains long-distance runners for one month using two methods. Group A has 5 runners, and Group B has 4 runners. The stated hypothesis is that method A produces faster runners. The race to assess the results finds that the runners from Group A do indeed run faster, with the following ranks: 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6. The slower runners from Group B thus have ranks of 5, 7, 8, and 9.\n\nThe analysis is conducted on pairs, defined as a member of one group compared to a member of the other group. For example, the fastest runner in the study is a member of four pairs: (1,5), (1,7), (1,8), and (1,9). All four of these pairs support the hypothesis, because in each pair the runner from Group A is faster than the runner from Group B. There are a total of 20 pairs, and 19 pairs support the hypothesis. The only pair that does not support the hypothesis are the two runners with ranks 5 and 6, because in this pair, the runner from Group B had the faster time. By the Kerby simple difference formula, 95% of the data support the hypothesis (19 of 20 pairs), and 5% do not support (1 of 20 pairs), so the rank correlation is r = .95 - .05 = .90.\n\nThe maximum value for the correlation is r = 1, which means that 100% of the pairs favor the hypothesis. A correlation of r = 0 indicates that half the pairs favor the hypothesis and half do not; in other words, the sample groups do not differ in ranks, so there is no evidence that they come from two different populations. An effect size of r = 0 can be said to describe no relationship between group membership and the members' ranks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2334094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2334094", "title": "SPECfp", "text": "SPECfp\n\nSPECfp is a computer benchmark designed to test the floating point performance of a computer. It is managed by the Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation. SPECfp is the floating point performance testing component of the SPEC CPU testing suit. The first standard SPECfp was released in 1989 as SPECfp89. Later it was replaced by SPECfp92, then SPECfp95, then SPECfp2000, then SPECfp2006, and finally SPECfp2017.\n\nSPEC CPU2017 is a suite of benchmark applications designed to test the CPU performance. The suite is composed of two sets of tests. The first being CINT (aka SPECint) which is for evaluating the CPU performance in integer operations. The second set is CFP (aka SPECfp) which is for evaluating the CPU floating point operations performance.\n\nThe benchmark applications are programs that perform a strict set of operation that simulate real time situations, such as physical simulations, 3D graphics, and image processing. These applications are written in different programming languages, C, C++ and Fortran. Many SPECfp benchmark applications are derived from applications that are freely available to the public and each application is assigned a weight based on its importance.\n\nTo compute the SPECfp score, benchmark applications run on a reference machine and the time each application requires for completion is recorded as the reference time. When evaluating the performance of another machine, the benchmark application is run on that system and the time the application requires for completion is recorded. Then the ratio between the recorded time and the reference time is computed. The geometric mean of all the benchmark suite application ratios is then computed as the SPECfp score.\n\nFor example, 126.gcc application takes 1280 seconds to complete on the AlphaStation 200 4/100, while it takes 1700 seconds on the reference machine. So, the ratio is: 1700/1280 = 1.328, which implies that AlphaStation 200 4/100 is 32.8% faster than the reference machine in running the 126.gcc.\n\nThe SPECfp2017 test is organized in 2 suites: SPECrate 2017 Floating Point and SPECspeed 2017 Floating Point containing in total 23 benchmark programs, designed to evaluate the floating point operations performance of a given system. The suite was released on June 2, 2017 replacing SPECfp2006 as of January 2018.\n\nThe SPECfp2006 test suite contains 17 benchmark programs, designed to evaluate the floating point operations performance of a given system. Three of these programs are written in C, four are written in C++, six are written in Fortran, and four are written in both C and Fortran. The suite was released on August 24, 2006 replacing SPECfp2000 as of February 2007.\n\nThe benchmark programs are:\nThe SPECfp2000 test suite contains 14 benchmark programs, designed to evaluate the floating point operations performance of a given system. Four of these programs are written in C, six are written in Fortran 77, and four are written in Fortran 90. The suite was released on December 30, 1999 replacing SEPCfp95 as of July 2000. This suite is currently retired.\n\nThe benchmark programs are:\nThe SPECfp95 test suite contains 10 benchmark programs, designed to evaluate the floating point operations performance of a given system. The suite was released in March 1995 replacing SEPCfp92 as of September 1995. This suite is currently retired.\n\nThe benchmark programs are:\nThe SPECfp92 test suite contains 14 benchmark programs, designed to evaluate the floating point operations performance of a given system. Twelve of these programs are written in Fortran, and two are written in C. The suite was released in 1995 replacing SPECfp89. With the release of this suite, the Baseline rule was introduced; in which vendors are no longer allowed to optimize the compilation of the code without reporting it. This suite is currently retired.\n\nThe benchmark programs are:\n\n"}
{"id": "27566752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27566752", "title": "Solar Electricity Handbook", "text": "Solar Electricity Handbook\n\nThe Solar Electricity Handbook is a yearbook written by eco-technology author Michael Boxwell. It is a beginners technical manual for people looking to learn about solar energy and how to generate electricity from photovoltaic panels.\n\nThe book starts with explaining how solar energy works and then guides the reader through evaluating a solar project, how to design a photovoltaic system and how to install and maintain it. The book uses the principal example of a small off-grid home, but incorporates a number of other examples throughout the book.\n\nThe book is not aimed at people who are already working in the photovoltaic industry.\n\nUpdated every year, the book's seventh revision was published in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "27495058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27495058", "title": "Steven Spielberg Jewish Film Archive", "text": "Steven Spielberg Jewish Film Archive\n\nThe Steven Spielberg Jewish Film Archive is dedicated to the preservation and research of Jewish documentary films. The archive is jointly administered by the Abraham Harman Institute of Contemporary Jewry at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and the Central Zionist Archives of the World Zionist Organization (WZO).\n\nThe archive was established in the late 1960s by Professor Moshe Davis and other historians of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. The archive was originally called the Avraham Rad Jewish Film Archive for a number of years. In 1973, the WZO designated the archive as the official depository for its films. Since 1988, the archive has been named after the Jewish-American filmmaker Steven Spielberg, whose foundation partially finances archive activities. In 1996, the archive moved to its present premises at the university's faculty of humanities on Mount Scopus.\n\nThe archive holds approximately 16,000 titles: about 4,500 films, over 9,000 videos on various formats and roughly 600 DVDs are cataloged. The collection deals with a variety of Jewish subjects: Jewish history, the establishment of the State of Israel, immigration, Jewish communities in the Diaspora and the relationships between them and Israelis. The films come from diverse sources: primarily the WZO and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem but also other public bodies, such as the Jewish National Fund and private sources that either donate or deposit their films – mainly documentary filmmakers and their families. In addition, the archive possesses a number of collections deposited by various kibbutzim. The Steven Spielberg Archive holds the copyright for the films produced by its founding institutions – i.e., the WZO and the Hebrew University – and is authorized to sell user rights to broadcasting and production companies and all other interested parties. The films are kept in temperature controlled vaults, facilitating their preservation, as much as possible, in optimal conditions. Movies can be watched on 16 mm and 35 mm viewing tables, and on video players in U-Matic, Betacam, VHS, DVCAM, Mini DV, Super VHS and Betamax.\n\nViewers will receive a tangible and extensive picture of the development of the Jewish nation and the State of Israel during the 20th century until the present. The varied and rich collection contains several definitive moments in the history of the State and the Jewish people in the Diaspora: for example the \"First Film of Palestine\" depicts life during Ottoman rule in 1911; the film \"Five Cities\" in which five central Jewish communities were filmed in Poland, provides a concrete and chilling testament to the vibrant Jewish life existing there a few months before the Holocaust; the film \"The Day Came\" which describes the establishment of the State on 14 May 1948, includes the famous scene of the Declaration of Independence by David Ben-Gurion; there is also film of the Israeli Ambassador to the United Nations, Chaim Herzog, furiously tearing up the General Assembly resolution equating Zionism with racism.\n\nViewers can also see the establishment of different communities, both before and after the establishment of the State. Hadassah Organization presents the nascent medical profession in Israel. Films produced by the Hebrew University throughout the years, show not only the development of the University but also the changing face of Jerusalem. The film \"Edge of the West\" brings images of the Jews of Morocco, including poignant scenes of residents of an entire small Jewish village leaving on their way to Israel. In addition, influential Jewish figures, such as Rabbi Abraham Isaac Kook, Albert Einstein and Chaim Weizmann, among others, can be seen. The archive holds original copies of the Eichmann Trial, given by the American company that filmed the trial. The Israel State Archives granted the archive the right to distribute this material, after the original video reels were transferred to digital cassettes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3477701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3477701", "title": "Tatsu Aoki", "text": "Tatsu Aoki\n\nAoki is an active musician in the field of Asian American jazz, filmmaker and is the founder and artistic director of \nAsian Improv aRts Midwest (AIRMW), The Annual Chicago Asian American Jazz Festival and The JASC Tsukasa Taiko Legacy arts residency program.\n\nAoki lives in Oak Park, Illinois. Aoki also teaches at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago.\n\nTatsu Aoki is a prolific artist, composer, musician, educator and a consummate bassist and Shamisen Lute player. Based in Chicago, Aoki works in a wide range of musical genres, ranging from traditional Japanese music, jazz, experimental and creative music.\n\nAoki was born in 1957 in Tokyo, Japan into an artisan family called TOYOAKI MOTO, traditionally categorized as OKIYA, meaning a booking and training agent for Geisha ladies in downtown Tokyo's designated area. While the economy and social environment forced many of those traditional artisan family business to close down in the 60s, Aoki was luckily able to receive some of the important essence of traditional Tokyo Geisha cultural training and studies at age 4, and became a part of the performing crew in early childhood. After his grandmother died, he had kept the Tokyo music training until early teen, and shifted his musical focus to American pop music and experimental music. Basically, he started jazz music in Japan in reflection from traditional Japanese music. Since his biological father was a movie producer at Shin Toho Studio, he had also begun working in small gage films and started to produce experimental films. Aoki was active performer during the early 70's in the mist of Tokyo Underground Arts movement. Became a member of Japanese Experimental Music ensemble, GINTENKAI presenting mixture of traditional music and new western music.\n\nAfter coming to U.S. in 1977, Aoki studied experimental filmmaking at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. He is currently an adjunct Associate Professor at the Film, Video and New Media Department, and teaches a course related to Celluloid and Advanced image making projectss and has an experience of teaching film production and history courses. In addition to his teaching job at SAIC, Aoki teaches Asian Identity in Cinema at Northwestern as well. During the late 80's, Aoki has become a leading advocate for Chicago's Asian American community and one of Chicago's most in-demand musicians on both contrabass, taiko (Japanese drums) and shamisen (Japanese lute). Working in film and music.\n\nUnder those environments of his childhood, Aoki has inherited historical and traditional essence of Tokyo Entertainment district's musical concepts, basics and value of flexible creations and applications. With the fall of these special districts in the late 60's and early 70's, the Tokyo's regional Entertainment musical concepts also disappears and as many other art form did, Tokyo Geisha music had institutionalized.\n\nFor Aoki, one of the most important goal is to preserve the original essence of fluidity and flexibility and perform rawness of REAL sound. He has adopted this idea to newer works as well.\n\nTo this date, Aoki has produced more than 60 recording projects and over 30 experimental films and working internationally. He is one of the most recorded artists in Chicago music scene. In his music, he tries to bring in Asia because he believes the concept of the traditional Asian music or art is different from Western. Among many of recordings, he has worked with musical masters and legends and produced remarkable duets works with bassist, Malachi Favors, multi instrumentalists such as Roscoe Mitchell, Don Moye and world-renowned Pipa virtuoso, Wu Man and another Chicago legend, Fred Anderson.\n\nUsing Taiko drumming as a signature, Aoki's solo bass performances project BASSE LIVE and recordings are known for one of the most innovative approaches to the instrument internationally.\n\nAoki's most important ensemble work, ROOTED: Origins of Now, a 50-minute 4 movement suite, was performed at the Chicago Jazz Festival in September 2001. Because of this work, the Chicago Tribute recognized Tatsu Aoki as a \"Chicagoan of the Year.\", one of the group of Chicagoans who has contributed to the vitality and culture of Chicago by the Chicago Tribune or the City. The Chicago Tribune stated that Rooted had \"come into its own as an eloquent, often dramatic merger of ancient Japanese music and experimental American jazz.\" JAZZIZ, magazine, recognized Aoki one of one of many artists who has changed jazz since 1980.\" For his contribution to Chicago area arts, Asian American Institute has given Mile Stone Award in 2007.\n\nAs an Executive Director of AIRMW, Aoki has initiated and managed several programs to advance the understanding of Asian American culture and community through the arts, including the Annual Chicago Asian American Jazz Festival and the JASC Tsukasa Taiko Legacy arts residency project. His work as an artist and educator in the cultural arts and as a leader in the Asian American community address as well as define the issues facing the community, including the need for quality artistic programs that reflect the Asian American experience.\n\nAoki is not only a musician but also working as a passionate filmmaker. Aoki first began making films in regular 8 gauge in early childhood. His biological father, Wahei Hoshino was a movie producer at Shin Toho Movie Studio in the 60's and was the reason for Tatsu to get into small gauge filmmaking. He has made many experimental short films. As much as his musical activities, Tatsu Aoki's films are shown internationally. His super 8 diary films and experimental films with optical printing has always been the main attraction of his screenings around the world. While working on his filmography, he presented himself to one of documentaries, \"That Asian Thing,\" in 2008, and worked as a composer for a short film called, \"Farewell, Mr. Griswell,\" in 2010. Also, as examples of Tatsu Aoki's works, there are sample versions of \"Flux\"(experimental film), \"Gate\", \"PUZZLE III,\" \"Ah Sou Desuka: Is that So!\" (digital movie), and \"Solution A\" (super-8 diary film).\n\nAoki started a project called Miyumi Project, named after his daughter, at Museum of Contemporary Art. It brings together the distinct music of the East in the forms of Japanese drums – taiko and shime, Korean drums – Buk, and mixed them with his own jazz bass, and AACM musician Mwata Bowden. Aoki's vision was to create sounds that borrow from the traditional drumming of Asia spiced by African, Latin and European sounds. The Taiko drumming beats (and I mean beats) a macho time in a very regular pattern. Over this very physical sound, Mwata Bowden (8 Bold Souls) improvises his large baritone saxophone. The effect is similar to fellow Chicago percussionist Kahil El Zabar's Ethnic Heritage Ensemble, except the beat is from the East. Double reedist Robbie Hunsinger to add a call and response joins Bowden's saxophone and clarinet. He even picks up a digeridoo on \"Early Dance\" pushing the recording to an entire world music. Most songs state a simple pattern for the reeds or Aoki's bass to improvise over. This engaging approach comes directly from the heart and soul of a true innovator of jazz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1170663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170663", "title": "The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle (film)", "text": "The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle (film)\n\nThe Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle is a 2000 American live action/animated adventure comedy film directed by Des McAnuff and produced by Universal Pictures, based on the television cartoon of the same name by Jay Ward. Animated characters Rocky and Bullwinkle share the screen with live actors portraying Fearless Leader (Robert De Niro, who also produces), Boris Badenov (Jason Alexander) and Natasha Fatale (Rene Russo) alongside Piper Perabo, Kenan Thompson and Kel Mitchell. Reprising her role as Rocky was June Foray, and Keith Scott voices Bullwinkle and the film's narrator. It also features cameo appearancess by performers including James Rebhorn, Randy Quaid, Paget Brewster, Janeane Garofalo, John Goodman, David Alan Grier, Don Novello, Jon Polito, Carl Reiner, Whoopi Goldberg, Max Grodenchik, Jonathan Winters and Billy Crystal.\n\nThe film received mixed reviews from critics and was a box office bomb, grossing $35.1 million worldwide against its $76 million budget.\n\nThirty-five years following their show's cancellation in 1964, Rocket J. \"Rocky\" Squirrel and Bullwinkle J. Moose have been living off the finances of their reruns on TV. Their home, Frostbite Falls, has been destroyed by deforestation, Rocky has lost his ability to fly and the show's unseen Narrator now lives with his mother, spending his time narrating his own mundane life. Meanwhile, their archenemies Fearless Leader, Boris Badenov and Natasha Fatale have lost power in Pottsylvania following the end of the Cold War. However, the three escape to a real-world Hollywood film studio, where they trick executive Minnie Mogul into signing a contract giving her rights to the show, transforming the villains from their two-dimensional cel-animated forms into live-action characters.\n\nSix months later, in Washington D.C., a warm-hearted and beautiful FBI agent Karen Sympathy and her superior, Cappy von Trapment, inform President Signoff that Fearless Leader intends to make himself President of the United States by brainwashing television viewers using his own cable television network named \"RBTV\" (\"Really Bad Television\"), which airs mind-numbing programming designed to zombify the public and persuade them to elect him as president. Karen is sent to a special lighthouse to bring Rocky and Bullwinkle to the real world by literally greenlighting a film starring the pair. She succeeds, with the Narrator being brought along as well but never being physically seen.\n\nFearless Leader is informed that Rocky and Bullwinkle have returned and sends Boris and Natasha to destroy them. The two spies are given a weapon called the CDI (\"Computer Degenerating Imagery\"), which removes cartoon characters from the real world by sending them to the Internet. Karen steals the villains' truck, but is subsequently arrested by an Oklahoma state trooper. Natasha and Boris in turn steal a helicopter to pursue Rocky and Bullwinkle, who are picked up and given a ride by Martin and Lewis, two students at Bullwinkle's old university, Wossamotta U. Boris and Natasha arrive first and make a large donation to the university in Bullwinkle's name. In return, the head of the university gives Bullwinkle an honorary \"Mooster's Degree\" and Bullwinkle addresses the student body, whilst Boris attempts to kill him with the CDI from a water tower. Rocky recovers his lost ability to fly and saves the oblivious Bullwinkle.\n\nMartin and Lewis lend the two their car, which Bullwinkle drives to Chicago. Boris and Natasha once again attempt to kill the two, but instead accidentally destroy their helicopter. Meanwhile, Karen escapes prison with the help from a love-struck Swedish guard named Ole. Karen, Rocky and Bullwinkle are reunited, but are quickly arrested for various misdemeanors that they have committed during their journey. The three are put on trial, where Bullwinkle inadvertently sabotages their case by cross-examining Karen as the prosecutor, not the defense attorney. However, the presiding Judge Cameo dismisses their case upon recognizing Rocky and Bullwinkle, stating to the district attorney that celebrities are above the law.\n\nThe three obtain a biplane from a man named Old Jeb and evade Boris and Natasha once again. The duo consider quitting their evil occupations and getting married, but are interrupted by a call from Fearless Leader. Afraid to admit they have failed, they lie and tell him they have killed Rocky and Bullwinkle. Fearless Leader initiates his plan, brainwashing the entire country. Meanwhile, the plane is unable to carry the weight of all three aboard. Rocky flies Karen to New York City to stop Fearless Leader, but is captured. Meanwhile, Bullwinkle accidentally flies the plane to Washington, D.C., confusing it for New York, and crashes on the White House lawn. To get Bullwinkle to New York in time to stop Fearless Leader, Cappy scans Bullwinkle into the White House's computer and emails him to RBTV's headquarters, where he interrupts the broadcast and save Karen and Rocky. Karen knocks Boris and Natasha together, Bullwinkle throws Fearless Leader to his comrades and Rocky ties the three scoundrels together with the cable's wire. The heroes convince the American public to vote for whomever they want, as well as replant Frostbite Falls' trees. Bullwinkle accidentally activates the CDI, and zaps Boris, Natasha and Fearless Leader, reverting them back to their two-dimensional animated cartoon forms and banishing them to the Internet once and for all.\n\nIn the aftermath, RBTV is changed from \"Really Bad Television\" to \"Rocky and Bullwinkle Television\" (Bullwinkle, in a self-deprecating manner, jokingly says \"What's the difference?\") Karen and Ole start dating, and Rocky, Bullwinkle and the Narrator return home to a rejuvenated Frostbite Falls.\n\n\nThere was also a soundtrack for the film to be released by DreamWorks Records.\n\n\"Rocky & Bullwinkle\" opened in 2,460 venues, earning $6,814,270 in its opening weekend and ranking fifth in the North American box office and third among the week's new releases. It closed on October 5, 2000 with a domestic earn of $26,005,820 and an overseas total of $9,129,000 for a worldwide gross of $35,134,820.\n\nOn review aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a rating of 43% based on 96 reviews with an average of 4.8/10. The critical consensus stated, \"Though the film stays true to the nature of the original cartoon, the script is disappointing and not funny.\" Metacritic reports a 36 out of 100 score based on 30 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\".\n\n\"The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle\" was released on VHS and DVD on February 13, 2001, and on Blu-ray on May 15, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "25268921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25268921", "title": "The Ghost-Seer", "text": "The Ghost-Seer\n\nThe Ghost-Seer or The Apparitionist (full title: \"Der Geisterseher – Aus den Papieren des Grafen von O**\"; literally, \"The Ghost-Seer – From the papers of the Count of O**\") is an unfinished novel by Friedrich Schiller. It first appeared in several instalments from 1787 to 1789 in the journal \"Thalia\", later appearing as a three-volume book in its own right.\n\nThe work is narrated in the first person by the 'Graf von O**' (Count of O**). It describes the story of a German prince visiting Venice at carnival time. Right at the start of the work, the Count stresses that this story might sound incredible, but that he had witnessed it with own eyes. Furthermore, he talks of his disinterest in deceiving the public as \"at the time these pages will tread into the world, I will not be and will neither win nor lose by the account given.\"\n\nStructurally and stylistically it is not a single story, but tells of a Jesuit secret society trying to convert a Protestant German prince to Catholicism and bring him to the throne back home in order to bolster its own power base. Writing of the Prince's fate, Schiller shows him as the key to the conflict between passion and morality, passion and duty.\n\nThe work's passages on religious and historical philosophy show Schiller's Enlightenment ideals, with his critique of religion and society to the fore, though a deeper exploration of Immanuel Kant was to follow later. Due to the novel's slow formation and the author's antipathy to it, it was not planned from start to finish and its style and structure is not uniform throughout, ranging from rhetorical prose, to theatrical prose, to dialogues reminiscent of \"Don Carlos\", to the popular elements of Gothic fiction.\n\nAlthough the book remained unfinished, its audiences were the largest for any of Schiller's work during his lifetime. The readership was attracted by its elements typical of the Gothic novel, such as necromancy, spiritualism and conspiracies. It is thought that Johann Georg Schröpfer may have provided the inspiration for the novel.\n\nThe first English translation appeared in 1800 under the title \"The Armenian\". In 1922, \"The Ghost-Seer\" was completed by horror novelist Hanns Heinz Ewers. This version was not well received by literary critics.\n"}
{"id": "992689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=992689", "title": "The Henry Ford", "text": "The Henry Ford\n\nThe Henry Ford (also known as the Henry Ford Museum of American Innovation and Greenfield Village, and as the Edison Institute) is a large indoor and outdoor history museum complex and a National Historic Landmark in the Detroit suburb of Dearborn, Michigan, United States. The museum collection contains the presidential limousine of John F. Kennedy, Abraham Lincoln's chair from Ford's Theatre, Thomas Edison's laboratory, the Wright Brothers' bicycle shop, the Rosa Parks bus, and many more historical exhibits. It is the largest indoor-outdoor museum complex in the United States and is visited by over 1.7 million people each year. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1969 as Greenfield Village and Henry Ford Museum and designated a National Historic Landmark in 1981 as \"Edison Institute\".\n\nNamed for its founder, the automobile industrialist Henry Ford, and based on his efforts to preserve items of historical interest and portray the Industrial Revolution, the property houses homes, machinery, exhibits, and Americana of historically significant items as well as common memorabilia, both of which help to capture the history of life in early America. It is one of the largest such collections in the nation.\n\nHenry Ford said of his museum:\n\nArchitect Robert O. Derrick designed the museum with a exhibit hall that extends behind the main façade. The façade spans and incorporates three structures from Independence National Historical Park—Old City Hall; Independence Hall and Congress Hall.\n\nThe Edison Institute was dedicated by President Herbert Hoover to Ford's longtime friend Thomas Edison on October 21, 1929 – the 50th anniversary of the first successful incandescent light bulb. The attendees included Marie Curie, George Eastman, John D. Rockefeller, Will Rogers, Orville Wright, and about 250 others. The dedication was broadcast on radio with listeners encouraged to turn off their electric lights until the switch was flipped at the Museum.\n\nThe Edison Institute was, at first, a private site for educational purposes only, but after numerous inquiries about the complex, it was opened as a museum to the general public on June 22, 1933. It was originally composed of the Henry Ford Museum, Greenfield Village, and the Greenfield Village Schools (an experimental learning facility). Initially, Greenfield Village and the Henry Ford Museum were owned by the Ford Motor Company, which is currently a sponsor of the school and cooperates with the Henry Ford to provide the Ford Rouge Factory Tour. The Henry Ford is sited between the Ford Dearborn Development Center and several Ford engineering buildings with which it shares the same style gates and brick fences.\n\nIn 1970, the museum purchased what it believed to be a 17th-century Brewster Chair, created for one of the Pilgrim settlers in the Plymouth Colony, for $9,000. In September 1977, the chair was determined to be a modern forgery created in 1969 by Rhode Island sculptor Armand LaMontagne. The museum retains the piece as an educational tool on forgeries.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the museum added an auditorium to the building's south corner. This housed an IMAX theater until January 2016 when museum management decided to change formats for the facility to better fit with its mission. The renovated theater reopened in April of that year.\n\nThe Henry Ford Museum of American Innovation began as Henry Ford's personal collection of historic objects, which he began collecting as far back as 1906. Today, the 12 acre (49,000 m²) site is primarily a collection of antique machinery, pop culture items, automobiles, locomotives, aircraft, and other items:\n\nBehind the scenes, the Benson Ford Research Center uses the resources of The Henry Ford, especially the photographic, manuscript and archival material which is rarely displayed, to allow visitors to gain a deeper understanding of American people, places, events, and things. The Research Center also contains the Ford Motor Archives.\n\nTo commemorate the 100th anniversary of the sinking of the RMS \"Titanic\", the Henry Ford Museum exhibited a vast array of artifacts and media documenting the \"Titanic\"s voyage and demise. The exhibit was hosted from 31 March to 30 September 2012.\n\nGreenfield Village, the outdoor living history museum section of the Henry Ford complex, was (along with the adjacent Henry Ford Museum) dedicated in 1929 and opened to the public in June 1933. It was the first outdoor museum of its type in the nation, and served as a model for subsequent outdoor museums. Patrons enter at the gate, passing by the Josephine Ford Memorial Fountain and Benson Ford Research Center. Nearly one hundred historical buildings were moved to the property from their original locations and arranged in a \"village\" setting. The museum's intent is to show how Americans lived and worked since the founding of the country. The Village includes buildings from the 17th century to the present, many of which are staffed by costumed interpreters who conduct period tasks like farming, sewing and cooking. A collection of craft buildings such as pottery, glass-blowing, and tin shops provide demonstrations while producing materials used in the Village and for sale. The Village features costumed and plain-clothed presenters to tell stories and convey information about the attractions. Some of these presenters are seasonal, such as the \"games on the green\" presenters who only operate in the summer. Greenfield Village has 240 acres (970,000 m²) of land of which only 90 acres (360,000 m²) are used for the attraction, the rest being forest, river and extra pasture for the sheep and horses.\n\nVillage homes, buildings, and attractions include:\n\n\nThere are various modes of historic transportation in the Village providing rides for visitors, which utilize authentic Ford Model Ts, a 1931 Ford Model AA bus (one of about 15 known to exist), horse-drawn omnibuses, and trains pulled by steam locomotives.\n\nThe rail line on which the steam locomotives in Greenfield Village presently run originally consisted of a simple straight stretch of track along the northern edge of the museum property, and has been present ever since Greenfield Village was dedicated in 1929. The rail line, now named the Weiser Railroad, was later expanded into a continuous loop around the perimeter of the museum property, which was completed in stages between 1971 and 1972. This passenger line is long and has four stations. All of the railroad's stations consist solely of single side platforms except for the station in the Railroad Junction section, which also includes the relocated Smiths Creek Depot building originally built for the Grand Trunk Railway in 1858.\n\nThe line utilizes a modern replica of a Detroit, Toledo & Milwaukee Railroad (DT&M) roundhouse built in 1884. At the time it was opened to the public in 2000, the new DT&M Roundhouse replica was one of only seven working roundhouses open to the public in the United States.\n\nThe railroad, unusual for a heritage railroad built purposely for tourism, has a direct connection to the United States National Railroad Network. The line to which it connects is a section of the Michigan Line owned by MDOT and is used by Amtrak's \"Wolverine\" service, which runs between Chicago, Illinois and Pontiac, Michigan. In the past, Amtrak's Greenfield Village station provided direct access to Greenfield Village near the Weiser Railroad's Smiths Creek Depot for reserved tour groups of twenty or more. It was consolidated in December 2014 with the new John D. Dingell Transit Center. The new transit center is adjacent to the Henry Ford museum complex and has a gate allowing access to the complex via a short walk.\n\nEach year the Village honors the sacrifices and achievements of those who bravely fought in the American Civil War. The Civil War Remembrance event takes place Memorial Day weekend (Sat-Mon) every year. An estimated 750,000 people died during the Civil War. The Civil War Remembrance is a weekend event, which includes hundreds of Union and Confederate reenactors, musicians and historic presenters. This event features more than 400 Civil War reenactors who spend the entire weekend in the Village. Greenfield Village provides many opportunities in order to learn about the Civil War: exhibits, presentations, battle reenactments, concerts, short plays, hands-on activities and Q&A with historians.\n\nMotor Muster is one of two car shows that take place annually in Greenfield Village. Motor Muster is traditionally held on Father's Day weekend. This event currently features cars built from 1932–1976, and features between 600–800 cars. Special attractions include car judging, and Pass in Review in which experts discuss highlights of the passing cars.\n\nEvery summer the Henry Ford has a Summer Camp. It takes place inside Greenfield Village and the Henry Ford Museum between June and August. It is for children in grades 2-9. Each grade level has a different theme and children who participate in the Summer Camp have the opportunity to look at both the Henry Ford Museum of American Innovation and Greenfield Village from different perspectives. Children participate in activities such as: apprenticeships, canoeing, glass blowing and other age-dependent activities.\nThe World Tournament of Historical Base Ball takes place every year in August. Guests get to take a step back in time to 1867 as vintage base ball clubs from around the country compete by the game's early rules in a two-day exposition of historic base ball. The clubs engage in two days of throwing, batting and competition. The event is included in Greenfield Village admission.\n\nFor four nights around Independence Day, the Detroit Symphony Orchestra performs a patriotic concert on Walnut Grove in the Village. Attendance ranges from 5000–9500 per evening.\n\nThis weekend event in July was first presented in 2007 and ran annually through 2015. Ragtime Street Fair featured dozens of live performers, including the River Raisin Ragtime Revue, \"Perfessor\" Bill Edwards, Mike Montgomery, Nan Bostick, Taslimah Bey, John Remmers, and Tartarsauce Traditional Jazz Band, who celebrated the Ragtime era (ca. 1900-1917). The event also featured silent movies, phonograph demonstrations, a cake walk, a cutting contest, and a musical revue in Town Hall as well as the 1912 presidential campaign of Theodore Roosevelt. Instruction in the ragtime one-step was provided free of charge at this event.\n\nThe Old Car Festival takes place every year in September. The Old Car Festival has been held on the first weekend after Labor Day since 1955. The festival takes over the streets and grounds of Greenfield Village with the sights, sounds, and smells of hundreds of authentic vehicles from the 1890s through 1932. This event features 500-700 cars. Special events include car judging, Pass in Review, the gaslight tour, and car races on the Walnut Grove field. Guests can take a self-guided tour of the exposition and talk to the owners of the treasured vehicles. Visitors can watch a Model T be assembled in just minutes, attend presentations, and hear experts share information about the vintage vehicles.\n\nThe Village's Halloween celebration features decorations, a headless horseman, witches, other costumed characters, treats and activities for visitors. It is held Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings in October.\n\nThe Christmas season has traditionally been very popular in Greenfield Village. Many buildings feature period decorations and the Village is open for a self-guided stroll. Even an ice skating rink is available; bring your own skates or borrow them from the staff. Visitors can view live entertainment and costumed presenters or ride in a horse-drawn carriage or Model T.\n\nThe Ford Rouge Factory Tour is a first-hand journey behind the scenes of a modern, working automobile factory. Boarding buses at the Henry Ford Museum, visitors are taken to the River Rouge Plant and Dearborn Truck Plant, an industrial complex where Ford has built cars since the Model A that once employed 100,000 people.\n\nIn 2003, the Ford Rouge Factory, the manufacturing facility for Ford's Ford F-Series truck, reopened following extensive renovations. When it reopened in 2003, as sustainable architecture (Gold LEED Building) led by noted 'green' architect William McDonough, it also opened a new state-of-the-art visitor center highlighting the factory's sustainable aspects and educating visitors on the legacy of the historic manufacturing facility as well as the vehicle manufacturing process that takes place within the manufacturing plant. The visitor experiences, designed by award-winning experience designer Bob Rogers and the design team BRC Imagination Arts, offers two multi-screen theaters, numerous touchscreen interpretive displays and overlook the world's largest \"Green\" roof, atop the factory. Visitors then walk through the working assembly plant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7824827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7824827", "title": "The Official Finnish Charts", "text": "The Official Finnish Charts\n\nThe Official Finnish Charts (, ) are national record charts in Finland composed by Musiikkituottajat – IFPI Finland. The name \"Suomen virallinen lista/Finlands officiella lista\" (lit. \"the Official Finnish Chart\"), which is singular in both Finnish and Swedish, is used generically to refer to both the albums and the singles chart, and the context (albums or songs) reveals which chart is meant.\n\nThe first charts were published in 1951. In January 1991, the Yle radio station Radiomafia started to compile the first weekly chart in Finland called \"Radiomafian lista\", which was broadcast on the radio every Sunday. Prior to that, all singles and album charts in Finland had been either monthly or biweekly published sales charts. \"Radiomafian lista\" became the official Finnish charts in January 1994 when they began a partnership with Suomen Ääni- ja kuvatallennetuottajat (ÄKT) (now known as Musiikkituottajat – IFPI Finland), the umbrella organization of recording producers active in Finland. Simultaneously, they began to publish the first weekly published singles chart based on sales in Finland, as well as a chart for studio and compilation albums. This move effectively killed the competition from the other chart compilers and by 1995, the Official Finnish Charts were the only sales charts published in Finland.\n\nPresently the following weekly charts are composed and published by Musiikkituottajat, according to sales and streaming:\n\nIn addition, Musiikkituottajat owns and publishes a digital chart which tracks digital sales of songs and is compiled by the Official Charts Company. In November 2013, Musiikkituottajat began to publish the Official Finnish Airplay Chart:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2122562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2122562", "title": "Șapte Seri", "text": "Șapte Seri\n\nŞapte Seri (\"Seven Evenings\") is a free leaflet-sized weekly magazine about goings-on in Bucharest, Romania. It is written largely in Romanian with some English.\n\nThe magazine first appeared on 12 June 1998, in 16 pages, full-color, with 17,000 copies, and was distributed in approximately 60 places. The distribution list included cinemas, clubs, bars, restaurants, cinemas, healthcare centers, business centres, hotels, etc.\n\n\"Șapte Seri\" is aimed at a wide variety of readers: residents and tourists, men, women, active persons, who spend their spare time going out.\n\nBy March 2000, the circulation had grown to 30,000. It has now reached 60,000, audited by BRAT, with readership data published in the SNA (\"National Audience Study\").\n\nIn the summer period (June to August), the magazine is also distributed at the seaside, in a 2-in-1 format with double covers.\n\nEven though the magazine is printed in Romanian, the website is fully translated into English, making it useful for expats.\n\n"}
