{"id": "46674450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46674450", "title": "2015 Greek football scandal", "text": "2015 Greek football scandal\n\nThe 2015 Greek football scandal emerged on 6 April 2015 when prosecutor Aristidis Korreas' 173-page work was revealed. Telephone tapping operated by the National Intelligence Service of Greece since 2011 has played a significant role in the case. According to the prosecutor's conclusion, Olympiakos F.C. owner Evangelos Marinakis along with Greek Football Federation members Theodoros Kouridis, and Georgios Sarris are suspected of directing a criminal organization since 2011. The goal behind their scheme was to \"absolutely control Greek football's fate by the methods of blackmailing and fraud\", exploiting the self-governing (\"autonomy\") status of national football federations promoted by FIFA and UEFA. Referees, judges, football directors and chairmen are also involved in the scandal. All defendants deny charges. Olympiakos are the champions of the Greek Superleague at the time.\n\nIn the summer of 2011, the Greek football was under the storm of Koriopolis scandal, a massive match-fixing case with many officials involved, including Evangelos Marinakis, the new owner of Olympiacos.\n\nAccording to the recent prosecutor's conclusion, Evangelos Marinakis, Theodoros Kouridis, Aristidis Stathopoulos, Georgios Sarris and Euboea Football Clubs Association president Ioannis Papakonstantinou later met at Hilton Hotel in Athens in December 2011. The decisions that they came up with after their meeting were to support Sarris' candidation for the presidency of the Greek Football Federation in the upcoming election, aiming to control it, and that Evangelos Marinakis would have a leading role in the organization.\n\nOne of the first actions of the new presidency of HFF was the replacement of the two football prosecutors (Fakos, Antonakakis) with two others (Petropoulos, Karras). The investigation inside the Federation for the Koriopolis scandal stopped and never resumed ever since. \nIn January 2012, Kouridis and Stathopoulos following Marinakis orders, secretly met referee Petros Konstantineas, currently a member of the Hellenic Parliament and a key participant in the fight against football corruption, and demanded from him to favour Olympiakos against Xanthi at their 22 January 2012 clash. Konstantineas refused and Olympiakos were defeated by Xanthi. A month later, according to the prosecutor, Marinakis allegedly ordered unknown people to bomb Konstantineas' bakery, which led to bakery's demolition on 23 February 2012, an incident that \"established Olympiakos' president domination on Greek football\".\n\nMarinakis, Kouridis and Sarris used prepaid mobile phones owned typically by Chinese and Pakistani immigrants so as to communicate avoiding surveillance from the National Intelligence Service of Greece, although they were eventually wiretapped nonetheless. The phone Marinakis used was registered to a Pakistani individual named \"Fataul Haque\", while Sarris' phone was registered to a Chinese one named \"Qianqian Zhang\".\n\nKorreas' conclusion states that Olympiakos owner's influence expanded to a wider range beyond his own club and that following his interests, various illegallities were committed. Specific referees were ordered so as to favor Platanias F.C., a club that was under Olympiakos' influence, against Panachaiki F.C. in a 2012 Football League play-off match which led to Platanias F.C. promoting to Super League. He intervened in Football League's Disciplinary Committee work in order to evoke favorable decisions for Tyrnavos 2005 F.C. against Niki Volou. Most important, he managed to influence most of the local Football Clubs Associations across Greece as well as most of the Super League clubs, which out of subordination and financial survival reasons agreed and aided Marinakis' right-hand Giorgos Sarris to become elected as the new president of Greek Football Federation.\n\nThe prosecutor's conclusion goes on mentioning that Super League's control was taken using Marinakis' stated power and economic strength. Olympiakos even maintains a large roster aiming to loan players to weaker clubs, succeeding in that manner to \"preserve their influence along the league\". Club's officials have been recorded by the National Intelligence Service of Greece of even demanding and eventually managing to place in Panionios' manager position Dimitrios Eleftheropoulos, Olympiacos' former goalkeeper, paying half of his contract salary.\n\nVarious acts of violence are also included inside the prosecutor's conclusion against referees (Giorgos Daloukas, Dimitris Kyrkos etc.), journalists and others. In a separate case, launched in July 2011, Marinakis is accused also of instigation and facilitating acts of violence. According to telephone recordings, Marinakis, along with the president of second-division club Ilioupoli, Giorgos Tsakogiannis, and others, cooperated so that a group of hardcore Olympiakos fans would travel on March 13, 2011 to a third division match and provoke riots to bring about a penalty. The prosecutor’s report says that \"Tsakogiannis informed [Ioannis] Papadopoulos that he had made arrangements and Evangelos Marinakis was aware of the plan for Olympiakos fans to cause riots\".\n\nIn one of the recorded conversations, the ex-board member of Olympiakos Emilios Kotsonis (currently imprisoned for a case of a ship with two tonnes heroin, which was caught by the Greek authorities with the help of the US Drug Enforcement Administration) refers to the severe crowd violence during a derby match of Panathinaikos against Olympiakos (2011–12 season), for which Panathinaikos was docked three points and punished €212.000 as fine, saying that Golden Dawn was behind the incident.\n\nSarris, Kouridis and Stathopoulos along with their colleagues and former referees Briakos and Douros, compiled the referees' charts for the 2011–12 and 2012–13 seasons of Greek Leagues, including referees of their utmost trust, such as Ioannidis, Amparkiolis and Kampaksis, who were used in crucial games in favor of the organization's interests. Among others, they refereed the match of Apollon Smyrni F.C. against Panionios, being ordered to favour Panionios, as well as the match of Levadiakos F.C. against Panetolikos F.C., being ordered to favour Levadiakos. Levadiakos' owner Giannis Kompotis, having acquaintances among the organization's circle, regularly benefit from them.\n\nConcluding, the prosecutor points up that Marinakis managed to currently dominate Greek football using his power and subsequent alliances and that furthermore, taking advantage of the situation, Olympiakos have been winning the Greek Super League each season since 2011, an achievement that automatically gives the club the income reward of around €20 million per year out of UEFA's market pool resulting from their subsequent participation in the UEFA Champions League Group Phase. In one of the recorded conversations, the UEFA's Deputy General Secretary, Theodore Theodoridis, partner of Michel Platini and son of vice-president of Olympiakos Savvas Theodoridis, is heard to provide help to Marinakis. Theodoridis is appearing to be the person who is responsible for the good relations between Platini and the various Football Federations ensuring his reelection.\n\nAccording to the Greek sports-site \"sdna.gr\" the Greek Federation has copied the code of FIFA Ethics Committee, but removing all the rules referring to punishments of officials, aiming to self-protection. The Federation still refuses to send its articles of association to the Greek General Secretary of Sports.\n\nIn 2014, Stamatis Vellis, ex-president of Apollon Smyrni, testified to the district attorney that the fate of his team depended on actions of corrupted members of the Hellenic Football Federation, naming a number of officials currently accused, and for that reason he quit from the presidency of his club and the Greek football.\n\nIn September 2014, Olivier Kapo, a former player of Levadiakos F.C., confirmed the alleged existence of a criminal organization within the Greek football industry, when he stated in the French press that in Greek football, “everything is corrupted [and] mafia-controlled.”\n\nEx-player of Panathinaikos, Gordon Schildenfeld’s sensational allegations about corruption in Greek football have caused uproar as he claimed: “I wanted to kill some of the refs in Greece. If I killed as many referees as I wanted you wouldn’t have had too many more in the Greek Superleague to officiate.”\n\nOn 27 May 2015, the President of the Football Union of Thessaly, Anastasios Batziakas (head of a Union which appealed the current presidency of the Hellenic Football Federation due to corruption), testified that his life was threatened by anonymous calls.\n\nIn August 2015, Petros Konstantineas stated that the referees in Greece should be professionals and criticized the situation about Hugh Dallas for getting paid without having any jurisdiction. He described also the Football Federation as a company who \"pop in and out the Greek courts\" and that Syriza \"is going to finish the job\".\n\nOn 2 March 2016, the owner oF PAOK FC, Ivan Savvidis, criticized the Hellenic Football Federation's officials and referees, stating at TV that \"he is ashamed to be linked with the Greek football\" and asked the resignation of Olympiakos' president, Marinakis, and the Federation's president. The board of directors of PAOK also asked the resignation of the Federation's president and the expulsion of all the accused persons from the Greek football, such as arbitration with foreign referees from the next season.\n\nOn 18 March 2016, Panathinaikos FC President Giannis Alafouzos sued Mr Marinakis and judges Tziblakis and Poulios for the Koriopolis case.\n\nAs of June 2015, suspects are being questioned by investigating judge Georgios Andreadis. Andreadis added 10 suspects to the 16 that prosecutor Aristidis Korreas had proposed. Court council is due to decide who are to put on trial.\n\nEvangelos Marinakis was questioned on 18 June 2015 and he was released on a €200,000 bail. He is also forced to stop being involved in any football activity, as well as he must report to a police station every 15 days.\n\nIn July 2015, and after the prosecutor's proposal to the penal justice, it was announced that are going to be tried for the Koriopolis: the players Avraam Papadopoulos, Kostas Mendrinos, the officials Achilleas Beos, Ioannis Kombotis (owner of Levadiakos F.C.), Dimitris Tzelepis (chairman of Panthrakikos F.C.), Giorgos Borovilos (president of Asteras Tripolis), Dimitris Bakos (owner of Asteras Tripolis), Michalis Kountouris (president of amateur Olympiacos CFP and board member of Olympiacos F.C.) and many more. On 5 Steptember 2015, a new conversation recorded by the National Intelligence Service came in the light, with the ex-board member of Olympiakos Emilios Kotsonis asking for a meeting from a judge of the case (Giannis Tziblakis) with Evangelos Marinakis, who was finally cleared for Koriopolis. In the case intervened the Court of Cassation, the supreme court of Greece for civil and criminal law, and the case for Marinakis is going to be examined again.\n\nAdditional suspects include Veria F.C. Director of Football Giorgos Lanaris and former owner Giorgos Arvanitidis, regarding 6 January 2013 match of Olympiakos F.C. against Veria. Veria player Nikolaos Georgeas and club's manager Dimitris Kalaitzidis at the time, testified in March 2015 that Lanaris following Arvanitidis orders demanded from Veria players to lose with a 3–0 score, which eventually happened. According to Andreadis, both Marinakis and Arvanitidis had agreed on the match fixing. Guillermo Pérez, football player of Veria at that time, stated also to the prosecutor that the game was fixed. However, Veria was judged as innocent for the suspected fixed match against Olympiakos by the appeal committee of the Football Federation.\n\nAtromitos F.C. football director Giannis Agkelopoulos along with club's owner Giorgos Spanos were also questioned by Andreadis on the suspicion of manipulating 4 February 2015 match of Olympiakos against Atromitos, following Panathinaikos F.C. football director Takis Fyssas testimony. Fyssas claimed that Atromitos coach at that time, Ricardo Sá Pinto, had shared with him that Agkelopoulos demanded from the coach not to use Pitu Garcia, Napoleoni, Katsouranis and Kivrakidis for the match in question. At the questioning, Agkelopoulos and Spanos handed over a letter written by Sa Pinto claiming that the story is not true, while Fyssas claims the story is known even by Fernando Santos' assistant, Ricardo Santos. Santos confirmed him after talking to the Press, stating that he had informed Fyssas through a text message which then became part of the latter's testimony.\n\nOn June 30, 2015, UEFA's General secretary Gianni Infantino stated that Olympiakos will keep their spot in the Champions League for the time, such as Asteras Tripoli FC. Later, the Court of Arbitration for Sport confirmed the participation of Olympiakos in the Champions League.\n\nOn 17 June 2015, the English sports-site Inside World Football had revealed that UEFA's integrity officer for the HFF (Dimitris Davakis) didn't state to the UEFA's Ethics and Disciplinary Inspector, Miguel Liétard Fernandez-Palacios, the judicial process and the alleged involvement of Asteras Tripoli in the Greek match-fixing scandal of Koriopolis, regarding their participation in the UEFA Europa League.\n\nAccording to the \"Telegraph\", UEFA did not respond to a request to confirm whether Infantino’s deputy, Theodore Theodoridis, had recused himself from any discussions or decisions about the handling of the Olympiakos case, because of the relationship of Theodoridis’s father, Savvas, vice-president of Olympiakos, and Theodoridis Jnr.\n\n"}
{"id": "1633267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1633267", "title": "Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967", "text": "Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967\n\nThe Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (ADEA; to ) is a US labor law that forbids employment discrimination against anyone at least 40 years of age in the United States (see ). In 1967, the bill was signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson. The ADEA prevents age discrimination and provides equal employment opportunity under conditions that were not explicitly covered in Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. It also applies to the standards for pensions and benefits provided by employers, and requires that information concerning the needs of older workers be provided to the general public. \n\nThe ADEA includes a broad ban against age discrimination against workers over the age of forty, and also specifically prohibits:\n\n\nMandatory retirement based on age is permitted for:\n\nThe ADEA applies to employers who employ at least twenty employees on a regular basis within the current or prior calendar year.\n\nThe ADEA was first amended in 1986, and then again in 1991 by the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act (Pub. L. 101-433) and the Civil Rights Act of 1991 (Pub. L. 102-166).\n\nThe ADEA differs from the Civil Rights Act in that the ADEA applies to employers of 20 or more employees (see ) rather than 15 or more employees. Both acts do, however, only apply to employers in industries affecting interstate commerce. The 20 employees can include overseas employees.\n\nThe ADEA protects US citizens working for US employers operating abroad except where it would violate the laws of that country.\n\nAn age limit may be legally specified in the circumstance where age has been shown to be a \"bona fide occupational qualification [BFOQ] reasonably necessary to the normal operation of the particular business\" (see ). In practice, BFOQs for age are limited to the obvious (hiring a young actor to play a young character in a movie) or when public safety is at stake (for example, in the case of age limits for pilots and bus drivers).\n\nThe ADEA does not stop an employer from favoring an older employee over a younger one, even when the younger one is over 40 years old.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court, in \"Meacham v. Knolls Atomic Power Lab\", 554 U.S. 84 (2008), held that the employer, not the employee, bears the burden of proving that a layoff or other action that hurts older workers more than others was based not on age but on some other “reasonable factor.”\n\nIn \"Gomez-Perez v. Potter\" (2008), the Supreme Court allowed federal workers who experience retaliation as a result of reporting age discrimination under the law to sue for damages.\n\nIn \"Kimel v. Florida Bd. of Regents\", 528 U.S. 62 (2000), the Supreme Court held that state employees cannot sue states for monetary damages under the ADEA in federal court. The EEOC may still enforce the ADEA against states, and state employees may still sue state officials for declaratory and injunctive relief.\n\nADEA remedies include compensatory and punitive damages for employee or damages if reinstatement is not feasible and/or employer's violation is intentional.\n\nStatutory defenses to ADEA claims include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39254644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39254644", "title": "Armenian mafia", "text": "Armenian mafia\n\nThe Armenian mafia is a general term for organized criminal gangs based in Yerevan, Moscow and other major Russian cities, that consist of ethnic Armenians. It is spread over all post-Soviet states. The structure is organized in clans called \"akhperutyuns\" (brotherhoods).\n\n"}
{"id": "38589907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38589907", "title": "Asilulu language", "text": "Asilulu language\n\nAsilulu is an Austronesian language of Ambon Island in the Moluccas, with some speakers on west Seram. It's a local trade language.\n"}
{"id": "16674646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16674646", "title": "Banu Ka'b", "text": "Banu Ka'b\n\nThe Banu Ka'b () are an Arab nomadic tribe originating in the Najd region of Arabia, who often raided, then settled various areas of southern and central Ottoman Iraq, in cities such as Basra and Nasariyah, and also across the border in the southernmost region of Khuzestan Province of Persia, particularly near the city of Khorramshahr. From the early 18th century onwards, the Banu Ka'b began converting from Sunni to Shia Islam.\n\nSome members of this tribe are direct descendants of Muhammad through Imam Musa Al-Kadhim, which makes them Sayyids. These Sayyids reside in Iraq.\n\nAnother branch of the Banu Ka'b settled in the areas that are now Oman and the United Arab Emirates.\n\nIndividuals who are members of or are descended from the tribe often have the surname \"Kaabi\" or \"al-Kaabi\". Those from the tribe who reside within Iran often carry the dialectal spelling variant \"Chaab\" or \"Chabi\".\n\nBanu Ka'b had their tribe flag as plain yellow banner. They have waged wars with neighbouring nations. For example, a famous naval battle, called Al-Raqah, occurred in the Persian Gulf between Bani Kaab and Kuwait. Bani Kaab were defeated by the Kuwaiti forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "15705741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15705741", "title": "Böszörmény", "text": "Böszörmény\n\nBöszörmény, also Izmaelita \"(Hysmaelita / Ishmaelites)\" or Szerecsen \"(Saracens)\", is a name for the Muslims who lived in the Kingdom of Hungary in the 10–13th centuries. Some of the \"Böszörmény\" probably joined the federation of the seven Magyar tribes during the 9th century, and later smaller groups of Muslims arrived in the Carpathian Basin. They were engaged in trading but some of them were employed as mercenaries by the kings of Hungary. Their rights were gradually restricted from the 11th century on, and they were coerced to accept baptism following the establishment of the Christian Kingdom of Hungary. They \"disappeared\" (probably became Christian) by the end of the 13th century.\n\nModern authors claim that several groups of Muslims migrated to the Carpathian Basin in the course of the 10th–12th centuries; therefore, the Muslims living in the Kingdom of Hungary were composed of various ethnic groups. Most of them must have arrived from Volga Bulgaria, but toponyms suggest that Muslim (káliz: \"khalyzians\") people arrived also from Khwarezm; these latter (or part of them) may have formed one of the three tribes of the Kabars who joined the federation of the Magyar tribes in the 9th century.\n\nThe Arab historian and geographer, al-Mas'ūdī recorded in the 10th century that the heads of the tribal confederation had welcomed Muslim merchants and the merchants could even convert some of the Magyars into Islam. Al-Bakrī also mentioned that the Magyars ransomed the Muslims who had been captured in the neighboring countries. In the 10th century, Ibrahim ibn Yaqub described the Muslim merchants who arrived in Prague from the territories of the Magyars and traded with slaves and tin. The \"Gesta Hungarorum\" recorded that lots of Muslims arrived in the Carpathian Basin from Volga Bulgaria during the reign of Taksony, Grand Prince of the Magyars ( 955 – before 972) and they settled down there.\nThe work of the Muslim traveler, Abu Hamid al-Garnati, who spent three years in the kingdom (1150–1153), proves that the Muslims living in the Kingdom of Hungary were composed of two groups: the Khwarezmians and the \"Maghrebians\" (Böszörmény). He was entrusted by King Géza II of Hungary to recruit soldiers among the \"Maghrebians\" (Böszörmény) living east of the Carpathian Basin. The Byzantine historian John Kinnamos mentioned that \"káliz\" warriors were captured during the war between the kingdom and the Byzantine Empire in 1165 and the Emperor Manuel I Komnenos removed some of them to Byzantine territories.\n\nThe Muslims settled down in several groups in the Carpathian Basin. Their largest communities lived in the southern parts of the Kingdom of Hungary in Syrmia and in region where the Drava joins the Danube. Other significant groups of Muslims lived in and around Pest, in the Nyírség (around Hajdúböszörmény) and around Nitra (). The Arab geographer Yaqut al-Hamawi mentioned that Muslims from the Kingdom of Hungary were studying in Aleppo in the beginning of the 13th century. The students arrived in Aleppo from a frontier region of the kingdom where the Muslims lived in 30 settlements.\n\nMost of the Muslims in the Kingdom of Hungary were engaged in trading and they were rich enough to lease royal properties in the 13th century. Other Muslims were employed in the king's army and took part in the wars against the Byzantine Empire. Yaqut al-Hamawi's work proves that the Muslim population spoke the Hungarian language by the beginning of the 13th century.\n\nRoyal decrees issued in the second half of the 11th century by the kings of Hungary persecuted the Muslims, requiring their conversion into Christianity. King Ladislaus I of Hungary commanded that converted Muslims who continued to follow Islam were to be removed from their original settlements. King Coloman of Hungary ordered that each Muslim settlement had to build a church, and he prohibited marriage between Muslims. Probably in the next century, the kings also prohibited the building of walls around Muslim settlements.\n\nBy the period of King Géza II (1141–1162), the \"káliz\" people could practise their faith only in secrecy. The \"Maghrebian\" soldiers followed Islam openly, but it was Abu Hamid al-Garnati who taught them several Islamic traditions. Upon his request, the king even permitted the \"Maghrebians\" to have concubines.\n\nThe Golden Bull of King Andrew II prohibited the employment of Muslims as minters and tax collectors. The king, however, continued to employ them in his administration. On 3 March 1231, Pope Gregory IX requested the prelates of the kingdom to protest against this practise and also authorized them to use ecclesiastical penalties for this reason. In the same year, King Andrew had to confirm the provisions of the Golden Bull but he still employed Muslims. Therefore, on 25 February 1232, Archbishop Robert of Esztergom placed the Kingdom of Hungary under an interdict and excommunicated some high dignitaries of the king. Pope Gregory IX sent a legate to the kingdom who reached an agreement with King Andrew on 20 August 1233 in Bereg. Under the agreement, the Muslims and the Jews could not hold royal offices and they were obliged to wear distinctive cloths. However, the king did not fulfill all the provisions of the agreement and therefore he was excommunicated, although he was absolved soon. On 10 December 1239, Pope Gregory IX even authorized King Béla IV of Hungary to lease his revenues to non-Christians.\n\nNevertheless, following the Mongol invasion of the kingdom (1241–1242) references to the Muslims in the kingdom became scarce. In 1290, King Ladislaus IV of Hungary appointed a former Muslim, Mizse, to the office of the Palatine.\n\nThe \"Böszörmény\" denomination is preserved as a family name and in toponyms, such as Hajdúböszörmény.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20894712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20894712", "title": "Chané", "text": "Chané\n\nChané is the collective name for the southernmost Arawak-speaking peoples. They lived in the plains of the northern Gran Chaco and in the foothills of the Andes in Paraguay, Brazil, Bolivia, and Argentina. The historical Chané are divided into two principal groups. The Chané proper who lived in eastern Bolivia and the Guaná who lived in Paraguay and adjacent Brazil. Twenty-first century survivors of the Chané are the Izoceno people of Bolivia and 3,034 descendants reported in Argentina by the 2010 census. Survivors of the Guaná are the Tereno and the Kinikinao both of Mato Grosso do Sul province in Brazil. \n\nMost of the historical Chané were subjects of and absorbed by the Eastern Bolivian Guarani, commonly called Chiriguanos, while the Guaná were subjects of the Mbayá, a Guaycuruan speaking people. \n\nThe Chané, together with other Arawak groups, are believed to have originated in northeastern South America, but to have spread southward about 2,500 years ago. They developed an agrarian culture, built densely populated villages, cultivated corn, peanuts, cotton and squash, and are famous for their ceramics and graphics which have been found mainly in the pampas of Bolivia surrounding the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra and in Samaipata, Portachuelo, Valle Abajo, Okinawa, Cotoca, El Pari, Mataral and Warnes. They also craft wooden masks and fabric clothing.\n\nAn ancient Chané religious site dating from about 300 CE is El Fuerte de Samaipata, now a UNESCO World Heritage Site. \n\nThey were a rather peaceful culture and traded with the Quechua-speaking Incas in the Andes and with other Arawak-speaking groups to the north and east. Chanés and Incas established a truce to join forces against the Eastern Guarani peoples of the Andes foothills, who the Incas and Spaniards called \"Chiriguanos\". The Chiriguanos raided the Chané homeland on a regular basis, and prior to the Spanish conquest, the Chiriguanos defeated the Chanés and halted the Inca advance into the plains and valleys of what is now the Santa Cruz Department of Bolivia. Some Chane weré forced into slavery by the Chiriguanos, others migrated to less fertile regions to the southeast. Many Chané women were taken as wives by Chiriguano men, thus starting a process of assimilation. Both Guaraní and Guaraní-speaking Chané also assimilated and mixed with Europeans during the colonial period and after the independence of both Argentina and Bolivia.\n\nThe Guaná, (also called Layaná) are the eastern branch of the Chané. The were vassals of the Mbayá, a relationship that, according to Spanish accounts, existed in 1548, and possibly much earlier. The Guaná were agricultural and pedestrian as opposed to the nomadic Mbayá who became equestrians by the early 17th century. In the early 18th century the Guaná lived in seven large villages of 1,000 or more people on the western side of the Paraguay River between 19 and 22 south latitudes. Later in the 18th century, some of them migrated along with the Mbayá east of the Paraguay River. They were estimated, perhaps generously, in the early 18th century to have numbered 18,000 to 30,000. In 1793 they numbered about 8,200.\n\nThe Guaná provided Mbayá chiefs with labor, agricultural products, textiles, and wives and in exchange were given protection and European goods such as iron tools by the Mbayá. The cultures of the Guaná and Mbayá slowly became more similar as the Mbayá adopted agriculture and weaving and the Guaná became equestrian. The Mbayá augmented their numbers, strictly limited by late marriages and abortion, by intermarriage with Guaná and captive women of other ethnic groups. Spanish chroniclers describe the Guaná as docile. The Mbayá, arrogant and ethnocentric, were described by Spanish chroniclers as surprisingly benign and respectful in dealing with their Guaná subjects.\n\nIn the late 18th century the Guaná, along with the Mbayá, migrated east of the Paraguay River, and by 1850 the Guaná had broken their relationship with the Mbayá and were living in the area of Miranda, Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil. The largest sub-tribe of the Guaná was the Tereno who numbered 3 to 4 thousand at the time. In 2001, they were called the Terêna, and 16,000 if them were living in the same area.\n\nThere are some Chané communities still living in the Izozog region in Santa Cruz, Bolivia, and in Yacui and Che-Renda near Tartagal, Argentina. In both cases, they have been influenced by the Guaraní language and culture, but still retain their Chane identity. The other descendants of the Chane culture were first mixed with the Guaranis, later with the Spaniards, and in the last two centuries with migration flows of other Europeans, Arabs, and migrants from other parts of Bolivia and Argentina. The Chane culture is an important heritage component of the populations of Santa Cruz, the Paraguayan Chaco, Salta Province, Jujuy Province and the Argentine Chaco.\n\n"}
{"id": "49328761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49328761", "title": "Claude J. Kelly III", "text": "Claude J. Kelly III\n\nClaude John Kelly III (born April 30, 1961) is the Chief Federal Defender for the Eastern District of Louisiana and is a former nominee to be a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana.\n\nKelly received a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1983 from the College of the Holy Cross. He received a Juris Doctor in 1987 from Tulane University Law School. He began his legal career as an Assistant District Attorney with the New Orleans District Attorney's Office, from 1987 to 1990. He interrupted his legal career to serve as General Manager of his family's restaurant, Kolb's German Restaurant, from 1990 to 1992. He served as an Assistant Federal Public Defender in the Eastern District of Louisiana, from 1992 to 2000. He served as the Director of International Sales for Optimal Healthcare in Miami, Florida, from 2000 to 2002 and as a consultant for the International Exchange Group in Washington, D.C., from 2002 to 2006. From 2006 to 2014, he was in private practice as a solo practitioner, concentrating on criminal defense. Since 2014, he has served as the Chief Federal Defender in the Federal Public Defender's Office for the Eastern District of Louisiana.\n\nOn February 4, 2016, President Obama nominated Kelly to serve as a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, to the seat vacated by Judge Ivan L. R. Lemelle, who took senior status on June 29, 2015. On May 18, 2016 the Judiciary Committee held a hearing on his nomination. On June 16, 2016 his nomination was reported out of committee by voice vote. His nomination expired on January 3, 2017, with the end of the 114th Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "6599028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6599028", "title": "Congressional Hispanic Conference", "text": "Congressional Hispanic Conference\n\nThe Congressional Hispanic Conference (CHC) is a Republican Party-controlled caucus in the United States Congress. Currently with six members, the CHC was formed in 2003, with the stated goal of promoting policy outcomes of importance to Americans of Hispanic or Latino and Portuguese descent. These priorities included support of the following: then-President George W. Bush and American troops in the war against terrorism; the Free Trade Agreement of the Americas (FTAA); tax relief to families and the over two million Hispanic- and Portuguese-owned small businesses; support for faith based initiatives; and, educational choice for all. The impetus behind the Conference's creation was the debate surrounding the nomination of conservative lawyer Miguel Estrada to the DC Circuit Court of Appeals. The Congressional Hispanic Conference should not be confused with the older Congressional Hispanic Caucus, which is another congressional organization populated by Democratic members of Congress.\n\nIn the mid to late 1990s, the Republican members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus – Mexican-American Henry Bonilla of Texas and Cuban-Americans Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Florida – left the Caucus in protest over its support for improved relations with Cuba. While Ros-Lehtinen remained an active member of the CHC's public outreach arm, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute, the Caucus has since been composed solely of Democratic and Democratic-caucusing independent legislators.\n\nFeeling there was \"significant need\" for a \"new Hispanic conference\" newly elected Florida congressman Mario Diaz-Balart began to organize in 2002 a caucus for Hispanic Republicans to counter what they felt was Democratic dominance over Hispanic political affairs. On March 17, 2003, Diaz-Balart revealed the formation of the Conference in an open letter published in the \"Wall Street Journal\". Joined by Bonilla, Ros-Lehtinen, his brother Lincoln, and newly elected colleague Devin Nunes, a California congressman of Portuguese (Azorean) descent, Diaz-Balart decried what he perceived as Hispanic Democratic efforts to derail the nomination of Estrada, a selection seen by some at the time as a possible fast track to the U.S. Supreme Court. The group was officially announced at a press conference two days later. They were soon joined by two more Portuguese American congressmen, Richard Pombo of California and Patrick Toomey of Pennsylvania.\n\nLike their Democratic counterpart, the Conference allows members from the Senate. Mel Martinez, the first Cuban-American US Senator, joined the group shortly after his election in 2004. Additionally, the Conference is open to non-Hispanic \"associate\" members who represent districts with significant Hispanic populations or generally support its goals with regards to public policy. In 2003, Conference members also formed the Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute as an equivalent to the Democratic CHC-affiliated CHCI.\n\nIn the 2006 and 2008 elections, the Conference suffered the loss of nearly half of their members to electoral defeat, attempts at higher office or resignations. Past chair Luis Fortuño left Congress after being elected Governor of Puerto Rico. After the 2010 midterm elections, six new Hispanic Republicans were elected to Congress: Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, Representatives David Rivera of Florida, Raúl Labrador of Idaho, Francisco Canseco and Bill Flores of Texas, and Jaime Herrera Beutler of Washington, as well as Portuguese American Senator Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, who was a member of the conference when he served in the House.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39655321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39655321", "title": "Crime in Sri Lanka", "text": "Crime in Sri Lanka\n\nCrime is present in various forms in Sri Lanka. Crime is segmented into two broad classifications: grave crimes (those which are indictable) and minor crimes (those which are not). Exceptions can be made for criminal liability on the grounds of duress, insanity, intoxication, necessity, and private defense. Punishment for crime includes several options: community service, fine, forfeiture of property, imprisonment, institutional treatment, probation, suspended sentence, whipping, and death; while the death penalty is available in the country, there have been no executions since 1976. \n\nSri Lanka is a participant in the prostitution industry, and most consumers of the trade in the country are foreign travellers. Nevertheless, most prostitution-related acts, such as prostitute trafficking and procuring are illegal. Prostitution has not become as severe an issue in Sri Lanka as compared to the situation in some neighbouring countries. \n\nChild trafficking is a problem in Sri Lanka. Most children trafficked are treated unfairly, unwillingly and inhumanely turned into pornographic film actors or sex slaves. \n\nCorruption is prevalent in Sri Lanka. Cited as \"one of the most corrupt nations in the world\" by Lakshman Indranath Keerthisinghe of the \"Lanka Standard\", there have been instances in which law enforcers take bribes from offenders who wish to have their offences waived. The government has made an effort to curb corruption in the country and a handful of corrupt individuals have been arrested and appropriately charged. \n\nCorruption is considered a large expense to the Sri Lankan government. However, corruption does not appear to be significant enough to pose a problem with foreign investment, though it is considered to be a persistent issue with customs clearance and smuggling of some consumer products.\n\nThe crime division of the Police Department of Sri Lanka has several branches. Its primary mission is to protect against all types of crimes in the country. It makes appropriate coordination with civil and military agencies, apprehends criminals, and take appropriate legal actions after the commitment of crime. The department also has the Police Human Rights Division which was established in 2002 with a mandate to examine and prevent human rights violations with which their officers may be charged while on duty.\n\n"}
{"id": "23789867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23789867", "title": "Critical language awareness", "text": "Critical language awareness\n\nIn linguistics, critical language awareness (CLA) refers to an understanding of social, political, and ideological aspects of language, linguistic variation, and discourse. It functions as a pedagogical application of a critical discourse analysis (CDA), which is a research approach that regards language as a social practice. Critical language awareness as a part of language education teaches students how to analyze the language that they and others use. More specifically, critical language awareness is a consideration of how features of language such as words, grammar, and discourse choices reproduce, reinforce, or challenge certain ideologies and struggles for power and dominance.\n\nRegarding linguistic variation, Fairclough argued that it is insufficient to teach students to use \"appropriate\" language without considering why that language is preferred and who makes that decision (as well as the implications for speakers who do not use \"appropriate language\").\n\nCLA generally includes consideration of how a person may be marginalized by speaking a particular way, especially if that way of speaking serves as an index of their race, ethnicity, religion, social status, etc.\n\nBecause power is reproduced through language, CLA is \"a prerequisite for effective democratic citizenship, and should therefore be seen as an entitlement for citizens, especially children developing towards citizenship in the educational system\".\n\nCritical language awareness has been applied to educating students in South Africa how language was used to maintain and perpetuate the apartheid state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21816999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21816999", "title": "David Gregory Kays", "text": "David Gregory Kays\n\nDavid Gregory Kays (born 1962) is the Chief United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri.\n\nBorn in Kansas City, Missouri, Kays received a Bachelor of Science degree from Southwest Missouri State University (now Missouri State University) in 1985 and a Juris Doctor from the University of Arkansas School of Law in 1987. He was in private practice in Missouri from 1988 to 1989. He was an assistant public defender in the Office of the Special Public Defender for Springfield, Missouri, in 1989. He worked in the Prosecuting Attorney's Office for Laclede County, Missouri, from 1988 to 1995, first as an assistant prosecuting attorney from 1988 to 1989, then as a chief assistant prosecuting attorney from 1989 to 1991, and finally as a prosecuting attorney from 1991 to 1995. He was an adjunct faculty at Drury University from 1991 to 2004. He was an associate circuit judge for Laclede County from 1995 to 2004, and was a presiding judge for the Twenty-sixth Judicial Circuit of the State of Missouri from 2005 to 2008.\n\nOn November 15, 2007, Kays was nominated by President George W. Bush to a seat on the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri vacated by Dean Whipple. Kays was confirmed by the United States Senate on June 10, 2008, and received his commission on June 19, 2008.\n"}
{"id": "3144896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3144896", "title": "Dialects of Fars", "text": "Dialects of Fars\n\nDialects of Pars are a group of southwestern and northwestern Iranian dialects spoken in the central Pars province. The southwestern dialects can be divided into three families of dialects according to geographical distribution and local names: Southwestern (\"Lori\"), South-central (Kuhmareyi) and Southeastern (\"Larestani\"). Under linguistic typology a part of the dialects of the region can be classified as follows:\n\nAnd the extinct old Kazeruni and Old Shirazi (Sherazi) dialects. This group of dialects is not to be confused with the standard Persian, the official language of Iran; and they are not restricted to the present border of Fars province.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43610498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43610498", "title": "Ecuadorians in Italy", "text": "Ecuadorians in Italy\n\nThe presence of Ecuadorians in Italy dates back to the 1980s.\n\nThe 2011 Census recorded 22,088 Ecuadorian-born people.\nThe three cities with most number of Ecuadorians are: Genoa (16.753), Milan (14.748) and Rome (7.799), according to the ISTAT data.\n\n"}
{"id": "31096769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31096769", "title": "Fallen woman", "text": "Fallen woman\n\nThe term fallen woman was used to describe a woman who has \"lost her innocence\", and fallen from the grace of God. In 19th-century Britain especially, the meaning came to be closely associated with the loss or surrender of a woman's chastity and with female promiscuity. Its use was an expression of the belief that to be socially and morally acceptable, a woman's sexuality and experience should be entirely restricted to marriage, and that she should also be under the supervision and care of an authoritative man. Used when society offered few employment opportunities for women in times of crisis or hardship, the term was often more specifically associated with prostitution, which was regarded as both cause and effect of a woman being \"fallen\". The term is considered to be anachronistic in the 21st century, although it has considerable importance in social history and appears in many literary works (see also Illegitimacy in fiction).\n\nThe idea that Eve, from the biblical story in the \"Book of Genesis\", was the prototypical fallen woman has been widely accepted by academics, theologians and literary scholars. Eve was not expelled from Eden because she had sex outside of marriage; rather she fell from a state of innocence because she ate forbidden fruit from the Tree of the knowledge of good and evil. That is, Eve and then Adam reached for knowledge, but in reaching for it, they disobeyed God and lost their original innocence - that is, their lack of anything beyond a childlike awareness of their surroundings; and the resulting complete subservience to God, who demanded to be the only entity with knowledge and its accompanying power. The temptation offered to Adam and Eve in the story was to know what God knows and to see what God sees. It was a temptation based on covetousness and a desire to be like God. (See: Prometheus) Thus, theologically speaking, there is a metaphor that is related to the Fall of Man from a state of grace as well as to the expulsion and subsequent fall of Lucifer from heaven.\n\nThe term \"fallen\" was nevertheless most often conflated with sexual \"knowledge\" (\"i.e.\", experience), particularly for women at a time when the social value of their sexual inexperience was insisted upon. As the term narrowed to imply any socially unauthorized sexual activity, including premarital or extra-marital sex, whether initiated by the woman or not, it concealed the different reasons for such a \"falling\" out of God's and society's favor. \"Fallen\" was therefore an umbrella term that was applied to a variety of women in a variety of settings: she may have been a woman who had had sex once or habitually outside the confines of marriage; a woman of a lower socioeconomic class; a woman who had been raped or seduced by a male aggressor; a woman with a tarnished reputation; or a prostitute. Furthermore, prostitution was defined in a range of ways and the \"reality was that hard economic times meant that for many women, prostitution was the only way to make ends meet. Many ... were only transient fallen women, moving in and out of the profession [of prostitution] as family finances dictated.\"\n\nIn some cases, a woman may have been regarded as fallen simply because she was educated, eccentric, or elusive. Whatever the case may be, female fallenness as it appears in each of these renderings was the result of a woman’s deviation from social norms, and in turn strongly linked to moral expectations. In the mid 19th century, for example, \"For middle-class men seeking to establish a different basis for authority, from that which had been used by the nobility, moral authority became the key issue, evident in the power exercised by a man over the nuclear or bourgeois family and in his ability to regulate women's sexuality through her protection and containment in the domestic sphere.\"\n\nFemale dancers and performers have been regarded as deviating from social norms that expect women to stay away from the male gaze, and hence have been described as belonging to the class of \"fallen women\". In Europe, women dancers were not socially acceptable and in Arabia, \"the unveiled ghawazi, who performed publicly for men, were not respected\".\n\nOne of the effects of the rapid urbanisation resulting from the Industrial Revolution in England was that a large number of prostitutes were working in the capital, London. This was assumed to be a large problem for the city and for the women themselves. Therefore it prompted many rescue and rehabilitation efforts, especially by middle-class women inspired by religious conviction or egalitarian principles or both. Some people worked on changes to legislation or served on committees to raise funds for charitable initiatives. Josephine Butler, for example, in the context of her efforts against the Contagious Diseases Acts wrote:\n\nYou must know there are many good men and women in our country who have devoted their lives to the work of reclaiming prostitutes, and of offering protection and aid to women and young girls, who through poverty, ignorance, or evil companionship are in danger of falling into sin. And because several persons working together can do more than each working alone, societies have been formed for this purpose, one of which, the Rescue Society, has in the last seventeen years, opened the doors of its various Homes to no less than 6,722 fallen women and girls, of which number seventy out of every hundred have been restored to a virtuous life, whilst lack of funds has compelled it reluctantly to refuse admission to many others who implored its aid. \n\nMany of the homes were \"strict, punitive and vengeful\" but Urania Cottage, set up and managed by Charles Dickens with the help of his rich, philanthropic friend Lady Burdett-Coutts was \"more agreeable\", run with \"good sense and good will.\"\n\nMost famously, the Prime Minister William Ewart Gladstone worked directly with fallen women to try to rescue them from their circumstances. At considerable risk to his political career, Gladstone spent a great amount of his own money and time on this effort, assisted by his wife, Catherine Gladstone. \"There are more entries in Gladstone's diaries about prostitutes than there are about political hostesses, more recorded visits to the fallen women on the streets of London than recorded attendances at the balls and soirées of the \"grandes dames\" of polite Victorian society.\"\n\nRescue work among prostitutes was also part of the missionary work done by the Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU), whose members also petitioned against alcohol and opium. In a speech to the National Purity Congress in 1895, WCTU temperance campaigner and social reformer Jessie Ackermann said:\n\nFrom time immemorial we have read of fallen and outcast women, forms of speech used only in reference to our sex. To my mind the time has now come when we should apply the same term to sinful man ... the great weakness of our rescue work in the past has been its onesidedness. It has busied itself in reclaiming women, while men have been passed by.\n\nWhat \"amounted to conventional Victorian 'rescue work' for 'fallen' women\" was carried out in the Philippines during the Philippine–American War on behalf of the United States Government as part of a much broader \"social purity\" campaigns to prohibit prostitution and alcohol and other \"social evils\".\n\nAs a genuine social concern as well as a metaphor for artistic explorations of vice and virtue, the theme of the fallen woman has a notable place in art and in literature. In some cases, such as Dante Gabriel Rossetti and William Blake, the artist/author has produced companion pieces in both forms. The theme continues in historical fiction such as John Fowles's \"The French Lieutenant's Woman\".\n\nAside from the \"Bible\", it was John Milton's famous and influential poem \"Paradise Lost\", (1667) that communicated the story of the Fall and its consequences most powerfully. The idea of the fallen woman is most closely related to those sources which represent the fallen woman as an agent, as opposed to a passive receptacle, in the act of her undoing. For example, in \"longing to reign rather than serve\", Eve is ambitious for knowledge. The difference between these religious renderings of the iconic figure and the fallen woman presented in most 19th century texts is that the latter is suppressed, disempowered, and silenced in her representations: \"[T]he Victorian fallen woman is usually depicted ... as a mute, enigmatic icon ... who sleeps through the poem that probes her nature\". \n\nLord Byron uses the idea of the fallen woman to relate vice and virtue and consider the effects of infidelity and inconsistency in his poem \"Mariano Faliero, Doge of Venice\".\n\nWilliam Blake's series of poems \"Songs of Innocence and of Experience\" (1789-1794) contrasts the two states in the context of industrialising England, the context in which women became more likely to \"fall\" as a result of great social change. Blake's poetry explores his deep concern about poverty and its effects as well as the relations between those in authority with those who are controlled by it, including moral generalities and the relations between the sexes. The connections between the Fall of Man and societal restrictions on sexual love are part of those broader concerns.\n\nThe theme of the fallen woman was becoming increasingly popular at the time that Rossetti began his picture \"Found\". Conceived in 1851, it was described by Helen Rossetti as follows: \"A young drover from the country, while driving a calf to market, recognizes in a fallen woman on the pavement, his former sweetheart. He tries to raise her from where she crouches on the ground, but with closed eyes she turns her face from him to the wall.\"\n\nWilliam Holman Hunt, like Rossetti a member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, spent some time searching for a 'suitable' subject for his painting \"The Awakening Conscience\" and he \"found it after reading about Peggotty and Emily in Charles Dickens's novel \"David Copperfield\", and after frequenting the London streets where fallen women could usually be found.\"\n\nThe character of Esther, who becomes a prostitute in Elizabeth Gaskell's novel \"Mary Barton\" (1848) is an example of a fallen woman being used to illustrate the social and political divide between rich and poor in Victorian England. The novel is set in a large industrial town in the 1840s and it \"gives an accurate and humane picture of working-class life ... Esther is presented as something other than merely a bad girl; the abyss into which she falls is the same gulf that separates Dives from Lazarus\".\nIn terms of the construction of the novel, the conventions of the time required that sexual actions took place offstage or not at all. Readers (particularly female readers) were encouraged to imagine and condemn the actions that caused the character's fall but as with other authors concerned about the effects of poverty on people at the time, especially women, Gaskell's \"conscious aim is to bring Christian principles as a mediating force within class antagonisms.\"\n\nAside from the well known critiques of society in his novels such as \"David Copperfield\", (1850), Charles Dickens set up and managed Urania Cottage—a home for homeless women. He disagreed with the prevailing idea that once corrupted, especially by prostitution, and therefore fallen, a woman could not be uncorrupted or redeemed. Rather he wanted to treat them well and train them for other employment but he needed to convince his benefactor that it was possible for fallen women to return to mainstream life.\n\nThomas Hardy's novel \"Tess of the d'Urbervilles\" (1891) explores the consequences for a heroine who became a fallen woman as a result of being raped. This is a key point because the author is trying to show that the consequences are independent of the heroine's actions or intentions.\n\nIn cinema, the fallen woman is one of the earliest representatives of the female prostitute, and the theme had great appeal during the silent era. By the mid 20th century, when women had access to a variety of jobs and their sexual activity was no longer necessarily associated with moral corruption, the fallen woman as a theme was no longer relevant. The films sometimes intended to convey a moral lesson; sometimes they were a social commentary on poverty; sometimes they explored the idea of redemption or the consequences of coercion; and sometimes they were about self-sacrifice. These contrasts, such as innocence and experience; sin and redemption; vice and virtue, as well as ideas about corruption, class, exploitation, suffering and punishment, build on themes in earlier literature. Some films, such as \"The Red Kimona\" (1925) in which the fallen woman was allowed to live happily at the end, were subject to severe censorship. \"The Road to Ruin\" (1928) was banned. \"Protect Us\" (1914)\n\n"}
{"id": "4719468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4719468", "title": "Fe'fe' language", "text": "Fe'fe' language\n\nFe'fe' or Fe'efe'e, also known as \"Nufi\" and \"Bafang\", is a Bamileke language spoken in Cameroon, around the town of Bafang. It was one of the four languages selected for \"option\" at the Collège Libermann at Douala (along with Duala, Basaa and Banjun).\n\n"}
{"id": "46543870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46543870", "title": "French language in Algeria", "text": "French language in Algeria\n\nFrench is a lingua franca of Algeria according to the CIA World Factbook. Algeria is the second largest Francophone country in the world in terms of speakers. In 2008, 11.2 million Algerians (33%) could read and write in French. Despite intermittent attempts to eradicate French from public life, by the 2000s there were far more French speakers in Algeria than on the eve of independence in 1962.\n\nDuring the French colonisation from 1830 to 1962, according to Benrabah, French \"symbolized foreign exploitation and was thus to be resisted\" but that \"it served as a tool to raise the population's awareness and support in favour of such resistance\" because French conveyed \"universal values\" of liberty, equality, and fraternity. During the colonial period, about one million French native speakers lived in Algeria. The pied-noirs developed a distinctive dialect, termed Pataouète. In 1963, of the 1,300,000 literate people in Algeria, 1 million read French. Of the total population, 6 million spoke French.\n\nIn the 1960s, post-independence Algerian politicians intended to carry out an Arabization campaign to replace the usage of French with Modern Standard Arabic. The Algerian government taught French as the first mandatory foreign language for students beginning in the fourth grade in the primary cycle, from the end of the 1970s to the early 1990s. In September 1993 the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education made French and English two separate choices for the first mandatory foreign language; students were required to pick one over the other; the great majority of students selected French as their first mandatory foreign language. Opponents of French-Arabic bilingualism in Algeria argued that French was a colonialist and imperialist language. A report for the High Council of Francophonie in Paris stated in 1986 that in Algeria, 150,000 people spoke French as a first language and 6.5 million spoke French as a second language. The total population of Algeria at the time was 21 million.\n\nBenrabah said that \"[f]rom a quantitative point of view, today's Algeria is the second largest French-speaking community in the world\" and that \"Arabization, or the language policy implemented to displace French altogether, failed.\" In 1990, 6,650,000 people in Algeria spoke French, with 150,000 being native speakers and 6,500,000 being second-language speakers. In 1993, of 27.3 million people in Algeria, 49% spoke French. At the time, studies predicted that 67% of the Algerian population would speak French by 2003. The Abassa Institute polled 1,400 Algerian households in April 2000 about their language use. Of them, 60% spoke and/or understood the French language. The institute used its findings to represent the 14 million Algerian citizens who were of the age 16 or older. Benrabah said that the polls confirm the trend of French increasing in Algeria.\n\nMaamri said that in 2009, due to the advent of satellite television channels that carry Francophone entertainment, the language \"is now enjoying something of a revival.\" She added that \"Also over the years, the Algerian government has pushed back, reintroducing French.\"\n\nIn 2014, 76% of Facebook users in Algeria posted in French, while 32% posted in Arabic. In 2016 68% used Facebook in French, while 43% used it in Arabic. In 2017, Algérie Poste (Algerian Post) and other governmental offices announced they would no longer use French in official documents. This found great consent among the Algerian general public.\n\nThe 1963 and 1976 constitutions do not mention Berber and French. The Permanent Committee on Geographical Names for British Official Use (PCGN) states \"In reality, French is the \"lingua franca\" of Algeria\", and that despite government efforts to remove French, it never stopped being the lingua franca. The PCGN stated \"official attitudes towards both Berber and French have been largely negative\". In spite of its widespread use of French, Algeria has not joined the \"Organisation internationale de la Francophonie\", an international organization of French-speaking countries.\n\nThe choice of language of Algerian leaders in public reflects their language policy: Houari Boumédiène, second president of Algeria from 1965 to 1978, was strongly against French and never used it publicly. Chadli Bendjedid, third president of the country, used only classical Arabic in his speeches, as did Liamine Zéroual. Other political leaders, such as Mohamed Boudiaf and the current president Abdelaziz Bouteflika, had a more favourable attitude towards French. Bouteflika in particular believed that the Francophone dimension of Algeria was evident in the impact of thinkers such as Descartes and the parallels between the French and Algerian revolutions.\n\n some two-thirds of Algerians have a \"fairly broad\" grasp of French, and half speak it as a second language. Ethnologue estimates indicate that 10,200 people in Algeria speak it as their native language. Malika Rebai Mammri, author of \"The Syndrome of the French Language in Algeria,\" said \"French continues to be the dominant language in business and professional circles\" and that \"certain aspects of formal education and research are still carried in the French language and a great part of the economic and industrial sectors and press still use French extensively.\" French and Berber are the two languages commonly used in the Kabylie region.\n\nAccording to Mohamed Benrabah, \"[t]he attitude of Algerians towards the French language is a complex one mainly because of recent history.\" In Algeria Arabo-Islamists are supportive of monolingual Arabic and \"modernists,\" which mostly consist of Francophone and secular members of the Algerian elite and the general population, favor bilingualism in Arabic and French.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55777426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55777426", "title": "Girango people", "text": "Girango people\n\nThe Girango people (also known as JoSuba or Joka-Kombe) is a group of Luo people who fall in the group known as Joka Jok. They include the Suna/Suba, Wategi/Kamagambo-Kanying'ombe, Wagire, JoKasgunga, JoSidho, JoKabar, JoMur, JoKiseru etc. They migrated to Kenya from northern Uganda, and are believed to be the brothers of the Simbiti. However, the Simbiti were absorbed into Kuria community, and that is why the people of Kuria have diverse origins. Some historians tend to use the \"Bunchari\" dialect of the Kuria spoken by the Simbiti, as well as the Kuria culture followed by the Simbiti to discuss the Girango people.\n"}
{"id": "4513042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4513042", "title": "Human rights in Haiti", "text": "Human rights in Haiti\n\nAccording to its Constitution and written laws, Haiti meets most international human rights standards. In practice, many provisions are not respected. The government's human rights record is poor. Political killings, kidnapping, torture, and unlawful incarceration are common unofficial practices, especially during periods of coups or attempted coups.\n\nThe land that would become Haiti was first colonized by Spain at the end of the 15th century. The Spanish essentially wiped out the native Taíno people through slavery and smallpox, to which the Taíno had no immunity. An early defender of more humane treatment of the Taíno was the Spanish priest Bartolomé de Las Casas. Albeit too late to save the Taíno, Las Casas was able to persuade the Spanish government that the Taíno could not withstand such cruel treatment. This had the tragic side effect of the importation of African slaves to replace the labor of the diminishing Taíno.\n\nInitially, Las Casas believed Africans to be suitable for slavery, but he later came to oppose their enslavement too. \"I soon repented and judged myself guilty of ignorance. I came to realize that black slavery was as unjust as Indian slavery...and I was not sure that my ignorance and good faith would secure me in the eyes of God,\" Las Casas wrote in \"The History of the Indies\" in 1527.\n\nIn 1697, Spain formally ceded to France control of the part of the island of Hispaniola that would become Haiti, naming it Saint-Domingue. Slavery in Saint-Domingue, France's most lucrative colony, was known to be especially brutal, with a complete turnover of the slave population due to death every 20 years. According to the historian Laurent Dubois, between 5 and 10 percent of slaves died every year due to overwork and disease, a rate that outpaced births. The dead were replaced by new slaves from Africa.\n\nIn 1791, what would become known as the Haitian Revolution began. Predominantly a slave revolt, Haitians finally won their freedom and independence from France in 1804.\n\nIn 1825, France's King Charles X threatened to invade Haiti unless it paid an \"independence debt\" of 150 million francs to reimburse France for the loss of its slaves and land. The debt was later reduced to 90 million francs but it was not until 1947 that Haiti had paid off what many have regarded as an immoral and illegal debt. To pay this, Haiti had to borrow money from and pay interest to French banks.\n\n\"We're talking about 200 hundred years of this cycle of debt that Haiti has gone through, which of course has devastating consequences on the capacity of the state within the country,\" Haiti historian Laurent Dubois has said.\n\nThe country's poverty made it vulnerable throughout its history to political instability and human rights abuses both by Haitian state officials and foreign interventions.\n\nIn 1915, following a coup that led to the mob killing of Haitian President Vibrun Guillaume Sam, United States sailors and marines landed in order to protect U.S. interests in the country. The occupation would last until 1934. \"Following restoration of order, a treaty providing for United States control over Haitian finances, customs, police, public works, sanitation, and medical services were concluded with the client Haitian government,\" according to the Navy Department Library.\n\nDuring the occupation roads and other public works projects were built by the corvée labor—forced, unpaid work—of Haitian peasants.\n\nIn 1916, the U.S. military started a Haitian army that would later become the Garde d'Haiti. Beginning with the Caco Wars, during the US occupation, and continuing until the 1990s, the Haitian army was implicated in a number of human rights abuses against the Haitian people. For example, following a 1991 coup by the military that overthrew democratically elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the Haitian army was accused of killing an estimated 3,000 people in three years. Upon his return to the presidency, Aristide disbanded the army.\n\nIn 1957, François Duvalier, also known as \"Papa Doc\", became president of Haiti, ushering in a period of human rights abuses from which the country is still recovering. An estimated 30,000–60,000 people were killed in the 30 years Haiti was under the rule of Duvalier and his son—and successor—Jean-Claude Duvalier, also known as \"Baby Doc\".\n\nIn 1959, François Duvalier formed a paramilitary force known as the Tonton Macoute, named after a mythic Haitian character who kidnapped misbehaving children, carried them off in a bag and ate them for breakfast. Duvalier authorized more than 10,000 Tonton Macoute, organized in 500 sections across the country, to maintain complete control over the population. \"The macoutes were Papa Doc's version of brownshirts and the Waffen SS, except that their usual uniform was blue jeans, T-shirts, sunglasses, and they carried clubs or pistols,\" wrote journalist and author Herbert Gold in \"Best Nightmare on Earth: A Life in Haiti\". \"They were loyal only to Papa Doc. In return, they could rob, steal, extort, torture and murder at will.\"\n\nThe Tonton Macoute continued to openly terrorize the population until they were officially disbanded after Jean-Claude Duvalier was forced from the presidency and went into exile in 1986.\n\nThe government in Haiti is known for running a slow, inefficient and corrupt system of justice. Allegations of torture and kidnapping are common whereas the number of Haitian citizens imprisoned without trial is huge.\n\nLawyers' immunity is under constant threat. Under the Duvalier regime, lawyers were intimidated from defending their clients through pressure and violence. Courts of justice were in effect \"run by the judges, appointed by the \"President for Life\" (the Duvaliers), who lacked the independence to make judgments about abuses against human rights.\" To this day, there is still no guarantee for lawyers' immunity in Haiti, as would seem to be suggested by the 2009 unconstitutional arrest without warrant of human-rights defender, Osner Fevry and the arrest in 2013 of Andre Michel, a lawyer critical of the government.\n\nAlthough the Constitution mandates an independent judiciary and the right to a fair trial, prolonged pretrial detention remains a serious problem. Because the court system and its records are poorly organized, it is impossible to determine the exact percentage of prisoners being held without trial. A study by the International Centre for Prison Studies, in partnership with the University of Essex, estimated that in 2013 nearly 71 percent of 9,921 prisoners in Haiti had not had a trial yet. According to the Centre, the majority of countries in the world have percentages ranging between 10 and 40 percent of such prisoners and Haiti's estimated 71 percent is one of the highest in the world.\n\nThe Constitution guarantees freedom of speech and the press, and the government generally has respected these rights. Many journalists, however, practice a measure of self-censorship in order to protect themselves from retribution. During the second Aristide administration (2000–4), some reports contend that members of the press were killed for supporting opposition movements.\n\nThe government does not censor radio, television, or the Internet. Because demonstrations often turn violent, security forces frequently have ignored the constitutionally mandated right to assembly and organization. The Haitian government generally has respected religious freedom in the country.\n\nHaiti's Constitution does not contain specific language prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, sex, language, age, or disability. Although some working standards exist to protect women, few resources exist to ensure enforcement. Abuses against women and children are common. Rape, although illegal, rarely results in prosecution of the perpetrator. Haitian law (article 269) excuses a husband for murdering his wife if the wife is found in an adulterous affair. Wives do not enjoy the same right.\n\nThe Haitian government contains a Ministry of Women's Affairs, but it also lacks the resources to address issues such as violence against women and harassment in the workplace.\n\nIn addition to suffering from chronic malnourishment and a lack of educational opportunity, many Haitian children also suffer physical abuse. In 2004 the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs reported that its hotline received more than 700 calls from children reporting abuse. Few statistics regarding the wider problem of child abuse have been collected. Trafficking of children also is a significant problem. UNICEF estimates that 2,000 to 3,000 Haitian children per year are trafficked to the Dominican Republic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24643295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24643295", "title": "Independent Corrupt Practices Commission", "text": "Independent Corrupt Practices Commission\n\nThe Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC), (in full the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission) is a Nigerian agency that was inaugurated on 29 September 2000 following the recommendation of President Olusegun Obasanjo. The mandate is to receive and investigate reports of corruption and in appropriate cases prosecute the offender(s), to examine, review and enforce the correction of corruption prone systems and procedures of public bodies, with a view to eliminating corruption in public life, and to educate and enlighten the public on and against corruption and related offences with a view to enlisting and fostering public support for the fight against corruption.\nThe Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Act 2000 governs the committee's activities.\n\nIn 2003, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) was established as a law enforcement agency to investigate financial crimes such as advance fee fraud (419 fraud) and money laundering.\nWhile the ICPC targets corruption in the public sector, especially bribery, gratification, graft, and abuse or misuse of office, the EFCC investigates people in all sectors who appear to be living above their means, and is empowered to investigate and prosecute money laundering and other financial crimes. The EFCC tracks illicit wealth accruing from abuse of office, especially attempts to integrate such wealth into the financial system.\nThere have been tensions between the two commissions. The ICPC chairman, Justice Emmanuel Ayoola, has complained about duplication of the functions of ICPC by the EFCC, particularly overlap between the ICPC Anti-Corruption and Transparency Monitoring Units and the EFCC Anti-Corruption and Transparency Committees.\n\nThe Association of Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialists (ACAMS) is a global organization of professionals dedicated to controlling and preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. In June 2009, ACAMS established a Nigerian chapter in Lagos. The Chairman of the ICPC, Justice Emmanuel Ayoola, said the ICPC was looking forward to a fruitful partnership with ACAMS in the campaign against corruption and all other related crimes.\nThe commission works with other international bodies such as the United Nations Committee on Anti-Corruption (UNCAC), Transparency International, and the African Union (AU) Convention Against Corruption.\n\nIn September 2009, a Federal High Court judge refused a request to issue a order compelling the ICPC and the EFCC to investigate and prosecute the FCT Minister, Senator Adamu Aliero, over alleged diversion of N10.2 billion public funds while he held office as Kebbi State governor. The court explained it did not have authority to compel the agencies to act.\n\nIn June 2009 the Senate Committee on Drugs, Narcotics and Anti-Corruption moved to amend the Acts setting up the ICPC and the EFCC so as to guarantee independence from the executive. Two of the proposals were to give the EFCC Chair a legally stipulated tenure of four years, and to require Senate approval for removal of members of either commission.\nA merger of the two agencies was also considered. At public hearings on the amendments, Senate President David Mark expressed concern that the EFCC and the ICPC would have too much power without another body supervising their work. However, the EFCC Chairman, Farida Waziri said it was important for anti-corruption agencies to remain independent of politicians, whom they often investigated. She expressed concern that the proposed amendment would rather limit than enhance the effectiveness of the agencies.\n\nIn the first three years of its existence, the ICPC received a total of 942 petitions. In August 2003 about 400 of the petitions were under investigation, and about 60 were at various stages of prosecution.\nAfter the first four years, however, the ICPC had failed to make any major convictions. Justice Akanbi blamed the lack of progress in part on severe underfunding, in part on the fact that the commission was not authorized to investigate corrupt activity prior to the date the ICPC was founded.\n\nThe ICPC has prosecuted a number of prominent Nigerians. Some examples are Ghali Umar Na'Abba, speaker of the House of Representatives (2002), Fabian Osuji, head of the Nigerian Federal Ministry of Education (2006).\n\nIn June 2004, Justice Mustapha Akanbi said that although several petitions had been written against state governors, the ICPC was not empowered to investigate governors involved in corrupt practices.\nHowever, in August 2008 Emmanuel Ayoola said the commission would soon issue a list of former state governors found to have violated the provisions of the ICPC Act 2000. He noted that some of them were already being prosecuted for money laundering, and said the ICPC was scrutinising the file to see whether there are cases they could pursue.\n\nIn August 2009 the ICPC started investigations into an alleged N90 billion fraud leveled against managers of Pension Fund for retirees in the health sector.\nIn September 2009, the ICPC summoned officials of the Ministry of Education linked with the alleged mismanagement of N1 billion meant for the Education Reform Programme.\n\nIn March 2015, ICPC made public the status of criminal cases within its precinct as at March 2015. The list contained 267 criminal cases between 2001 and 2015, and 142 civil cases between 2007 and 2015.\n\nThe Chairman Ekpo Nta narrowed the meaning of corruption by government officials:\n\"Stealing is erroneously reported as corruption. We must go back to what we were taught at school to show that there are educated people in Nigeria. We must address issues as we were taught in school to do.\"\n\nIt followed the previous similar announcement by the Nigerian President Goodluck:\n\"What many Nigerians refer to as corruption is actually stealing. Stealing is not the same thing as corruption.\" \n"}
{"id": "34407922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34407922", "title": "Institute of Aviation, Warsaw", "text": "Institute of Aviation, Warsaw\n\nThe Institute of Aviation or Warsaw Institute of Aviation (Polish \"Instytut Lotnictwa\") is a research and development center established in 1926, located in Warsaw, Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "34242805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34242805", "title": "International Congress for the Victims of Terrorism", "text": "International Congress for the Victims of Terrorism\n\nThe International Congress for Victims of Terrorism is a congress for victims of terrorism worldwide. The Congress has a double objective: to provide a forum where the victims of terrorism can be heard; and to have their concerns and experiences recognised by society and civil authority.\n\nThe Congress was founded by the International Centre for Victims of Terrorism of the San Pablo.\n\nThe first Congress took place in Madrid, Spain in 2004. Subsequent Congresses were held in Bogotá, Colombia (2005), Valencia, Spain (2006), Madrid (2008), and Medellín, Colombia (2009) The 6th Congress took place February 11 – 13 2010 in Salamanca, Spain\nThe 7th International Congress of Victims of Terrorism took place 15–17 September 2011 in the amphitheatre Foch, Ecole Militaire, Paris, France.\n"}
{"id": "5866816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5866816", "title": "Internationalist Review", "text": "Internationalist Review\n\nThe Internationalist Review is an independent, non-profit e-journal founded on July 3, 2006, in Maastricht, Netherlands. The IR wants to be in its own words \"a reader-friendly guide to news sources from around the world\". Its aim is to overcome the national partition of the public sphere and create an \"espace publique mondial\". The style of publications is clearly inspired by academic methods and standards. \n\nThe first board of directors of the Internationalist Review Foundation consisted of seven members, including five different nationalities. The first published dossier dealt with the anti-CPE crisis in France. An on-line Review was maintained until 2008. The organisation is registered as a non-profit foundation under Dutch law at the Chamber of Commerce in The Hague and under Belgian law in Brussels (registry number 0879.791.987). \n\nSince 2008, the Internationalist Review Foundation (or simply Internationalist Foundation) diversified its activities, notably by organising the European Master Thesis Award in cooperation with Maastricht University and the large-scale research project INFOCON, financed under the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Development of the European Commission. \n\n"}
{"id": "6859507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6859507", "title": "James A. Rice", "text": "James A. Rice\n\nJames A. Rice (born November 15, 1957) is an American attorney, judge, and politician. He is one of the six Associate Justices currently on the Montana Supreme Court. Rice won an unopposed retention vote in 2014; his current term will expire in 2022.\n\nRice was born to parents in the United States Military who were stationed at Ramore Air Force Base, near Kirkland Lake, Ontario, Canada. Rice grew up in eastern Montana, and graduated in 1975. He obtained his pilot's license at 17, and worked in aviation-related jobs while attending Montana State University. He graduated with a B.A. in political science in 1979, and then earned a J.D. from the University of Montana School of Law in 1982. Rice subsequently worked as a public defender in Lewis and Clark County for four years.\n\nHe was elected to three terms in the Montana House of Representatives, and served as House Majority Whip in the 1993 session. He became a partner in the law firm of Jackson & Rice in Helena, Montana, in 1985. On March 15, 2001, he was sworn in as an Associate Justice of the Montana Supreme Court after appointment by Governor Judy Martz. Rice filled the seat vacated by Karla M. Gray when she was elected Chief Justice of the Montana Supreme Court, November 2000. In 2002, Rice won election to the remainder of the judicial term to which he was appointed. In 2006, he won an unopposed retention vote. In 2014, he defeated W. David Herbert to win a third term.\n\n"}
{"id": "45171607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45171607", "title": "Jilt shop", "text": "Jilt shop\n\nJilt shop is an archaic term for an establishment frequented by B-girls.\n\n\"Jilt\" originally meant \"harlot\" or \"woman who gives hope then dashes it\"; \"to jilt\" meant \"to deceive (especially after holding out hopes), cheat, trick.\" In William Wycherley's \"Love in the Wood\" (1671), II.i.141, Sir Simon complains of a \"Mistress of mine...whom I treated to night at the French-house; but as soon as the Jilt had eat up my meat, and drank her two bottles, she run away from me.\"\n\nIn the 19th century, George W. Matsell defined \"jilt\" as \"a prostitute who hugs and kisses a countryman while her accomplice robs him.\"\n\nAnn Street, Boston's red-light district in the 19th century, was lined with \"jilt shops\"—saloons, dance halls, gambling dens, and brothels—whose primary purpose was to lure customers for robbery.\n\nAn example of a jilt shop in operation is described in an 1881 \"Boston Globe\" article. A man named Gideon Burnham entered a small saloon in the North End where, by his account, he attempted to pay for his drink with a $5 bill. The barmaid, Mary McNamara, said she could not make change but could get change across the street. After she left the saloon, Burnham was advised to follow her and retrieve his money before she spent it all on drink. As soon as he left the saloon, the door was locked behind him. Burnham found a police officer and had McNamara arrested for larceny. In court, McNamara and \"the woman who keeps the jilt shop\" told a different story, claiming that \"instead of larceny there was only a breach of an illegal contract\"; meaning, presumably, that Burnham had paid for sexual services which were not rendered. \"The court intimated that there was very little difference between stealing and cheating, and preferred to believe the man's story, more particularly as it was the business of such women to cheat people and steal money in the way described.\" McNamara was fined $20 and costs.\n\nIn another instance, two female employees of a jilt shop were arrested in 1882 for stealing $250 from the pockets of Charles Tasker, a former North End police officer who \"ought to have been wise enough to keep out of the snares of strange women.\"\n\nA popular form of entertainment at jilt shops was rat-baiting. In the saloon above the rat-pit, drinks were served by provocatively dressed women who were paid a small fee by the owners, in addition to whatever they collected by various means from the customers.\n\n"}
{"id": "4562715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4562715", "title": "Josh Hines", "text": "Josh Hines\n\nBorn Josua Hines better known as Josh Hines and \"Big\" Josh Hines was a gangster from the early part of the 20th century who was a member of the mid-late 19th century New York City Whyos street gang. Gang chroniclers Herbert Asbury (author, \"Gangs of New York\") and Luc Sante (author, \"Low Life\") credit Hines as being the first man to hold up a stuss parlor and regularly robbing gambling houses.\n\n"}
{"id": "41836249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41836249", "title": "Koya (tribe)", "text": "Koya (tribe)\n\nKoya a scheduled tribal community habituated southern part of India. Koyas are commonly referred to as Koi, Koyalu, Koyollu, KoyaDoralu, Dorala Sattam, etc. Koya tribes can be further divided into Koya, Doli Koya, Gutta Koya or Gotti Koya, Kammara Koya, Musara Koya, Oddi Koya, Pattidi Koya, Rasha Koya, Lingadhari Koya (ordinary), Kottu Koya, Bhine Koya.Raja Koya, etc. Koyas call themselves \"Koitur\" in their dialect. Koyas speaks Koya language, also known as koya basha, and is a member of the Dravidian language family.\n\nThe Koya population is mostly spread out in the southern region of India, particularly in the states of Telengana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and in Lakshadweep islands\n\n. In Andhra Pradesh, they live especially in West Godavari, East Godavari, Khammam and Warangal districts and are sparsely found in Adilabad and Karimnagar districts. Koya are second the largest populated tribe of Andhra Pradesh with the population of 568,019 (11.3%) in total ST population according to the census of 2001.\n\nThe Koya are mainly settled cultivators and artisans, expertise in making bamboo furniture including mats for fencing, dust pans, and baskets.They grow Jowar, Ragi, Bajra and other millets. Tubers and roots such as Tella Chenna Gadda, Kirismatilu and edible green leaves such as Chencheli, Doggali, Gumuru, bacchalakura, gongura, pacchakura, pullakusiru, Thota kura, Boddukura are dietary staples as are curries made from some of these ingredients.\n\nThe tribal community faces the new threats of development and conflicts, posing a serious questions on its existence and civilization. For instance, the displacement and migration of Gotti koyas tribals taking place in Andhra Pradesh. In the absence of land and access to a forest, the Koyas depend on wage labour in farm lands. The scarcity of these jobs lead to malnutrition of children and instances of anemia in women. The Andhra Pradesh state government proposed Polavaram Project is posing a serious threat of displacement of 170,275 Koyas of the tribal population and more than 276 villages in the Khammam district of Bhadrachalam, Palwancha divisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "40611428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40611428", "title": "Let Go, Let Gov", "text": "Let Go, Let Gov\n\n\"Let Go, Let Gov\" is the first episode in the seventeenth season of the American animated television series \"South Park\". The 238th episode of the series overall, it first aired on Comedy Central in the United States on September 25, 2013. The episode's story satirizes the 2013 mass surveillance disclosures, and casts Eric Cartman in an Edward Snowden-like role, in which he infiltrates the NSA in protest of the agency's surveillance of American citizens.\n\nKyle Broflovski grows increasingly irritated at Eric Cartman's habit of having indiscreet phone conversations while using the speakerphone function of his phone. When he complains about this to Cartman, Cartman accuses Kyle of invading his privacy, and comes to suspect that Kyle is an agent of the National Security Agency (NSA), which Cartman believes is tracking the movements of American citizens. When Butters Stotch learns this, he begins worshipping the government.\n\nCartman acquires a new social media device called Shitter, which is being advertised on TV by Alec Baldwin. The device broadcasts a user's thoughts audibly and sends them directly to the Internet without the use of a phone. Cartman decides to use this device while infiltrating the NSA in order to broadcast his thoughts to the Internet. Meanwhile, Butters goes to a Colorado Department of Motor Vehicles office and confesses his sins to the person behind the counter. He is subsequently visited by two Jehovah's Witnesses. Butters shares with them the truth about the government and the three of them begin sharing DMV literature with their neighbors. Eventually, others begin showing up at the DMV to confess their sins.\n\nCartman goes to the NSA headquarters impersonating a job applicant under the name Bill Clinton. The NSA chief hires him to help monitor emails and phone conversations. Cartman is irritated to learn that he himself is not being monitored by the NSA and tries unsuccessfully to convince the chief that Eric Cartman is really a threat. The chief explains that the NSA cannot change someone's status in the Central Computer. When Cartman questions this, the chief reveals the mechanism by which the NSA monitors citizens: they have Santa Claus imprisoned and hooked up to their computers. Cartman then reveals his true identity, telling the chief that he will inform the public of the truth.\n\nCartman is subsequently heartbroken to learn that nobody cares that the NSA is monitoring them. He is consoled by Butters, who convinces him to join the group at the DMV.\n\nMax Nicholson of IGN gave the episode a score of 6.7 out of 10, saying that \"the beginning of 'Let Go, Let Gov' featured the best jokes from this storyline\" and that \"as the arc progressed, the episode veered more and more into preachy territory.\" Marcus Gilmer of \"The A.V. Club\" gave \"Let Go, Let Gov\" a C−, saying that \"instead of reaching for some sort of sharp satire, there's a settling for an easy, cheap joke.\" He adds that the central story-line about the NSA \"wanders a bit with stale riffs and a lackadaisical payoff\".\n\n"}
{"id": "815067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=815067", "title": "List of important publications in medicine", "text": "List of important publications in medicine\n\nThis is a list of important publications in medicine, organized by field.\n\nSome reasons why a particular publication might be regarded as important:\n\nThe definitive bibliographic source of books and articles demonstrating the history of medicine and identifying the first publications in the field is \"Garrison and Morton\". (Morton, Leslie T. (Leslie Thomas), Morton's medical bibliography : an annotated check-list of texts illustrating the history of medicine (Garrison and Morton). -- 5th ed. / edited by Jeremy M. Norman. -- Aldershot, Hants, England ; Brookfield, Vt., USA : Scolar Press, Gower, c1991. xxiv, 1243 p. .) It is also available electronically, for a fee.\n\nDe Materia Medica\n\nThe Canon of Medicine\n\nExercitatio Anatomica de Motu Cordis et Sanguinis in Animalibus\n\nThe Principles and Practice of Medicine: Designed for the Use of Practitioners and Students of Medicine\n\nMortality in relation to smoking: 50 years' observation on male British doctors\n\nRandomized trial of cholesterol lowering in 4444 patients with coronary heart disease: the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study\n\nHeart Protection Study\n\nProphylactic implantation of a defibrillator in patients with myocardial infarction and reduced ejection fraction\n\nPancreatic extracts in the treatment of diabetes mellitus\n\nDiabetes mellitus: its differentiation into insulin-sensitive and insulin-insensitive types.\n"}
{"id": "56001838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56001838", "title": "List of writing systems of the languages in Indonesia", "text": "List of writing systems of the languages in Indonesia\n\nIndonesia's languages have different writing systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "51202733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51202733", "title": "Lurish clothing", "text": "Lurish clothing\n\nThe clothing culture of Lurs is a very interesting aspect of this ethnic group which has been developed along with their long history of coexistence with surrounding natural elements across the Iranian plateau, and geographical, cultural and religious effects. This clothing system is a symbol of Lurish people although it varies due to geographical and seasonal conditions and between Lurish subgroups. The colors of Lurish costumes differ by the Lurs location. In a general classification Lurish clothes are in three main subgroups: Feyli (common between Feyli Lurs including Laki, Minjai, Kalhori and Maleki tribes), Bakhtiari (Common between Bakhtiari Charlang and Haftlang clans) and Southern Lurish (common between Southern Lurs). \n\nShaal (شال): A long white cloth (width: 60–90 cm, length: 6–9 meters) made by chalvar nature which is twisted all round the waist.\n\nSetra (سِتره): A special cassock that its size is below the knees and usually is used for more official ceremonies. This clothes is one of the oldest types of clothing in Iran. \n\nFelt hats (کُلأ نِمِدی): A round felt made that has no edges and sometimes is surrounded by Golvani.\n\nGiva(گیوه): A local handmade shoes with sturdy leather or plastic soles and the vamp is woven by spun yarn.\n\nChugha (چوغا): A masculine wrapper that is used prominently by Bakhtiari Lurs and Feyli Lurs. Chugha is made by sheep wool and usually is woven by Bakhtiari nomads.\n\nJuma (جومه) or Kraas(کراس): A free, tall and without a collar dress which is a common clothing of Lurish women all across Luristan. \n\nKolonja (کُلُنجه): is a lacing overcoat which in many cases, the surface is embroidered and decorated by coins.\n\nSaava (ساوه): A special silk fabric that Lur women tie around the head.\n\nGolvani (گُلوَنی): A colorful and patterned type of Saava that mostly is used for celebration and joy. In recent years, Golvani is mentioned as an ethnic symbol of Lurs and every year is celebrated on a certain day (May 16) during spring season.\n\n"}
{"id": "23094408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23094408", "title": "Macedonians in the Czech Republic", "text": "Macedonians in the Czech Republic\n\nThere is a small community of ethnic Macedonians in the Czech Republic. Among the refugees of the Greek Civil War who were admitted to Czechoslovakia in the late 1940s, roughly 4,000 were of Macedonian ethnicity; they resettled primarily in the Czech portion of the country.\n"}
{"id": "12842162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12842162", "title": "Nafusi language", "text": "Nafusi language\n\nNafusi (also spelt Nefusi; Berber: \"Maziɣ\") is a Berber language spoken in the Nafusa Mountains (\"Drar n infusen\"), a large area in northwestern Libya. Its primary speakers are the Ibadite communities around Jadu, Nalut (\"Lalut\") and Yafran.\n\nThe dialect of Yefren in the east differs somewhat from that of Nalut and Jadu in the west. A number of Old Nafusi phrases appear in Ibadite manuscripts as early as the 12th century.\n\nThe \"Ethnologue\" entry includes nearby Zuara Berber, Matmata Berber and Djerbi under the rubric \"Nafusi\", which corresponds to neither local nor to academic usage of the term.\n\nThe dialect of Jadu is described in some detail in Beguinot (1931). Motylinski (1898) describes the dialect of Jadu and Nalut as spoken by a student from Yefren.\n\nNafusi shares several innovations with the Zenati languages, but unlike these other Berber varieties it maintains prefix vowels before open syllables. For example, \"ufəs\" \"hand\" < *\"afus\", rather than Zenati \"fus\". It appears especially closely related to Sokni and Siwi to its east.\n\n"}
{"id": "49017290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49017290", "title": "New Year's Eve sexual assaults in Germany", "text": "New Year's Eve sexual assaults in Germany\n\nDuring the 2015/2016 New Year's Eve celebrations, there were mass sexual assaults, 24 rapes, and numerous thefts in Germany, mainly in the Cologne city center. There were similar incidents at the public celebrations in Hamburg, Dortmund, Düsseldorf, Stuttgart and Bielefeld. For all of Germany, police estimated in a document leaked in 2016 that 1,200 women were sexually assaulted and that at least 2,000 men were involved, often acting in groups.\n\nMany of the incidents involved women being surrounded and assaulted by groups of men on the street. Cologne police chief Wolfgang Albers stated that the perpetrators in his city were reportedly men of \"Arab or North African appearance\" and said that Germany had never experienced such mass sexual assaults before. The attacks sparked an international outcry, a debate about women's rights (especially in Islamic culture), the sustainability of Germany's asylum policy, and violence and sexism against women by immigrants from Arab countries and North Africa. Taking place during the European migrant crisis (see timeline), the attacks also led to a hardening of attitudes against immigration and attacks on immigrants.\n\nOnly a small number of the alleged perpetrators have been identified. By 9 April, police in Cologne had identified 153 suspects, 24 of whom were in investigative custody. Almost all of the suspects of the Cologne crimes were non-Germans; two-thirds of them from Morocco or Algeria. 68 suspects were asylum seekers; 18 were residing in Germany illegally, and the legal status of 47 others was unclear. Four suspects were underage, unaccompanied refugees. By July, four perpetrators had been convicted, and it was reported that half of the 120 outstanding suspects had been in Germany for less than a year, most of them from North Africa.\n\nIt was speculated that the assaults in Cologne were organized. Police said that some perpetrators used social media to meet for New Year's Eve celebrations, but Ralf Jäger, Minister of the Interior of North Rhine-Westphalia, said there was \"so far no evidence that the perpetrators had arranged the assaults before New Year's Eve\". Jürgen Mathies, the new Cologne police chief, said many of the perpetrators were from countries where they might be familiar with \"this behaviour, where women are hemmed in and then abused by a large number of men at once\". According to both Jäger and Mathies, the suspects did not come from pickpocketing or organized crime gangs.\n\nThe Cologne assaults were not reported by the national media for days, and \"The Local\" says many news outlets started reporting it only after a wave of anger on social media made covering the story unavoidable. This led to claims that the media is forced into line and was attempting to cover up crimes by immigrants. Although Cologne Mayor Henriette Reker condemned the assaults, she was strongly criticized for some of her comments and was accused of blaming the victims. Cologne's police chief, Wolfgang Albers, was transferred to provisional retirement for his handling of the situation. The police response and delayed media reaction met strong criticism from German citizens, with some placing blame on the European migrant crisis. The governments of Slovakia and the Czech Republic called for an emergency EU meeting following the assaults and various other EU governments made statements concerning the attacks.\n\nOn 7 June, a Federal Criminal Police Office report confirmed that most of the perpetrators were of North African origin and had arrived in Germany during the European migrant crisis. Investigative results about the perpetrators were congruent with witnesses' statements. Perpetrators benefited from weak criminal prosecution and low police presence. Group dynamics and personal frustration among the offenders also fuelled the crimes. The report also linked the assaults to the purported phenomenon of \"taharrush jamai\" (collective harassment) in some Arab countries.\n\nFollowing the attacks, Germany updated its laws, making it easier to deport immigrants convicted of sex crimes and broadening the definition of sexual assault to include any sexual act that a victim declines through verbal or physical cues. Previously German law required a victim to physically resist their attacker (see rape in Germany).\n\nOn New Year's Eve, December 2015, witnesses reported that firecrackers were thrown into a crowd from a group of people of around 500, which had doubled in size by later that night, at the square in front of Cologne's Central Station. Following this event, groups of men exploited the confusion to rob and sexually assault people in the area and within the station. According to witnesses, the attackers surrounded women in groups of 30–40.\n\nAccording to the Cologne police report on 2 January, the suspects mostly used sexual assault (including groping) to distract victims while robbing them of mobile phones and wallets. Police initially said that the sizes of the groups ranged from 2 to 20 people. According to a Bundeskriminalamt report released in June 2016, perpetrators acted mostly in groups of 9 up to 100 men. Groping, insults, and rape were often combined with robbery and theft.\n\nA female undercover police officer was sexually assaulted, the offender grabbing into her pants. In other cases, the victims' underwear was torn off. Media reports included the case of an American woman, who was protected by Syrian men who formed a ring around her and then brought her to her boyfriend. One victim described a firecracker being put in the hood of her jacket while her personal belongings were stolen.\n\nOn 5 January, shortly after the assaults, Cologne mayor Henriette Reker said in a press conference that there was \"no evidence that people who are residing in Cologne as refugees are amongst the perpetrators\". Cologne's police president, Wolfgang Albers, stated that \"the police has no knowledge about the offenders\". To some, including the German Minister of Justice Heiko Maas, the assaults appeared to have been organized or coordinated, the perpetrators having arrived in large groups. Police later said that some perpetrators used social media to meet at the New Year's Eve celebrations, but Ralf Jäger, Minister of the Interior of North Rhine-Westphalia, said there was \"so far no evidence that the perpetrators had arranged the assaults before New Year's Eve\". According to Jäger in January and Jürgen Mathies, the new Cologne police chief in February, the suspects did not come from pickpocketing or organized crime gangs.\n\nAccording to Albers, most alleged perpetrators seemed men \"of Arab or North African appearance\" between the ages of 15 and 35 or between 18 and 35 (news media report differently).\n\nOn 7 January, several anonymous police officers from Cologne denied statements that the police did not know the nationality of the perpetrators; they told the press that \"most of them\" would have been freshly arrived asylum seekers. Contradicting statements from Cologne police leaders, these officers said that the identities of many people, including those who were arrested, had been thoroughly checked, so that police knew which groups of people were involved.\n\nAround 70 people had been checked, and several brought to police stations or taken into custody. The majority of those in detention were Syrians. The officers denied that the sexual harassment was only incidental, saying the truth was \"exactly the opposite\" and that most of the perpetrators sought primarily to commit sexual offenses, or in their words \"sexual amusement\". Arnold Plickert, North Rhine Westphalia's representative of German police union \"Gewerkschaft der Polizei\", confirmed that asylum seekers were \"definitely\" involved.\n\nOn 8 January, the Federal Ministry of the Interior acknowledged that two-thirds of the suspects checked by the Federal Police—who are responsible for the railways and railway stations in Germany—in Cologne were asylum seekers. The same report stated that 31 suspects were identified by name, including 18 asylum seekers. In total, the suspects were nine Algerians, eight Moroccans, four Syrians, five Iranians, two Germans, an Iraqi, a Serb, and an American. Another report on the same day stated that stolen mobile phones were located by the police within or in the vicinity of refugees' residences.\n\nBy 8 January, 170 women had reported crimes to the police, including two rapes, with the events taking place in the main square between the station and Cologne Cathedral, and also outside the central railway station. The number increased to 379 on the following day, and sexual offences were alleged in 40 percent of these cases. Most of the suspects were described as men of North African appearance. The increase in reported crimes was attributed to the fact that more officers have been assigned to the investigation, so complaints from more police stations are being evaluated. Many of the attacked women were visitors of, or travellers passing through Cologne. By 11 January, the number of complaints was 553, with sexual offences comprising nearly half of the cases.\n\nThe next day, it was reported that the number had risen to 653, but a correction made later on set the number at 561. According to the department of public prosecution, there has been a transmission error (\"Übermittlungsfehler\"). By 14 January, the number rose again to 652, by 15 January to 676 complaints, 347 of these including sexual offences. On 19 January, the number of complaints was at 766, rising to 821 on 21 January, including 359 sexual offences. The number of victims is higher, as some complaints included more than one victim: 1,049 people were affected in total as of 21 January. Three women were allegedly raped. By 30 January, the number of complaints in Cologne was 1,016, 433 of which included sexual offences. On 10 February, the number of complaints had risen again to 1,054. Alleged sexual offences were included in 454 cases, while the other cases consisted mostly of theft, robbery, and personal injuries. The number of complaints rose again to 1,075 by February 15; 467 included sexual offences. By 17 March, it had risen to more than 1,100. As of 18 March, the Cologne Public Prosecutor reported 1,139 crime complaints filed during New Year's Eve, 485 of which were sexual offences. By 6 April, the number of reported crimes in Cologne was 1,529. A total of 1,218 victims were involved, 529 of which were victims of sexual offences. In July, it was estimated that more than 600 women had been assaulted in Cologne.\n\nSome complaints also included the allegation of denial of assistance and obstruction of justice in office against Wolfgang Albers and some police officers, as well as the North Rhine-Westphalia Minister of the Interior, Ralf Jäger. By 17 March, the number of such complaints was 51.\nOn 25 November 2016, a total of 1,616 crimes was reported for Cologne only. 509 of them were sexually motivated, among them 22 rapes.\n\nSimilar events took place in Hamburg, specifically on or near Reeperbahn, St. Pauli, where 53 women reported being sexually assaulted or robbed.\n\nBy 7 January, the number of complaints to the police in Hamburg increased to 70, to 108 by 8 January, to 153 by 12 January, to 195 by January 14, to 205 as of 20 January, and to 218 by 21 January. 351 people were reported to be victims of the alleged crimes. Eight people were identified as suspects, all of them migrants and some recently arrived refugees. A first suspect was arrested on January 21. According to the police, the number of suspects is likely to rise. On 4 February, a Hamburg police report leaked to the press showed that two women have allegedly been raped in Hamburg on New Year's Eve. There were 236 complaints with 391 victims. According to this report, nearly all offences in Hamburg were \"exclusively motivated sexually\": only three complaints with seven victims in total included no sexual offences. Most of the incidents took place around the street of Große Freiheit near the Reeperbahn, where a large crowd was gathered. Some policemen stood at the entrances of the street, but did not realise that sexual offences were taking place in the crowd or were themselves reluctant to act as they were in the minority. Many women except for one did not even have time or were too upset to call the emergency numbers that night.\n\nSome incidents occurred on a shopping street, Jungfernstieg, where \"several hundred\" \"highly aggressive and intoxicated\" migrants threw fire crackers into the crowd. The police described the situation there as \"borderline\", because only 20 policemen were available there after midnight. On the Reeperbahn, bouncers acted to accompany and protect women in reaction to the events, and sales at some clubs and bars fell. On New Year's Eve, doormen were often the only people who could help victims, even those accompanied by husbands or partners. They opened a backyard in which they established a protection zone for the offended women. Doormen described the perpetrators as refugees, which they saw among other characteristics from their mismatching clothes. Mayor Olaf Scholz demanded quicker deportation of criminal migrants in reaction to the events. There has been an increased police presence, especially on the Reeperbahn.\n\nCriminal activity was also reported in Bielefeld, which had 20 complaints; Düsseldorf, which had at least 296 complaints; Dortmund, which had 30 complaints; and Stuttgart, which had at least 72 complaints.\n\nIn Düsseldorf, the 113 complaints of sexual assaults and theft followed 41 others that were reported earlier. The alleged crimes were committed from 11:00 p.m. on New Year's Eve to 6:15 a.m. on 1 January, with a crime being reported every four minutes. Most of the crimes happened in Altstadt, the old town of Düsseldorf. The perpetrators were described as groups of young male migrants who showed \"no respect for women\". 57 of the 113 alleged crimes were sexual assaults, and 13 further were classified as \"insulting on a sexual base\". By November, a total of 296 complaints about 311 crimes were filed in Düsseldorf, in 103 cases there had been a sexual motivation.\n\nIn Stuttgart, 17 of the 72 complaints made to the police by 20 January were sexual offences.\n\nIn Dortmund, at least two complaints of sexual assaults were made by 11 January, but the police stated that there are probably more victims. Witnesses told the media of two groups of men, 150 within Dortmund main station, 200300 outside. One witness described the group in the station as \"strangely silent\". Another witness stated that the men outside were \"aggressive\". The victims were then sexually assaulted by smaller groups of men of Arabic or southern origin near the station. By 20 January, the number of complaints had risen to 28, including four sexual offences. 32 people were affected in total, seven of them for sexual assaults. By November, 30 complaints about 35 crimes were filed in Dortmund.\n\nIn Bielefeld, several young women were reported to be sexually assaulted and robbed by men of North African origin in and around a discothèque. Around 500 men tried to force their access into the building. According to witnesses, the doormen pushed back the attackers by using fire extinguishers and tear gas. They also rescued women by pulling them into the building. The perpetrators were reported to be \"highly aggressive\" \"especially against women\". At least three complaints of sexual assaults have been made. By 20 January, the number of the complaints rose to 18, five of which included sexual assaults. There were 22 victims in total in Bielefeld. By November, there were 20 complaints in Bielefeld.\n\nOn 20 January, North Rhine-Westphalia Police published provisional figures for the four cities in its territory: Bielefeld, Cologne, Dortmund, and Düsseldorf. There were complaints of nearly 1,000 crimes with a total of 1,216 victims from the four cities alone. By 9 April, these numbers had risen to 1,754 crimes, with 1,455 victims living in all four cities. Also in January, the fact became known from a confidential report of the German \"Bundeskriminalamt\" (Federal Criminal Office, BKA) that offences similar to those in North Rhine-Westphalia and Hamburg occurred—in a lower extent—in 12 of the 16 German federal states.\n\nIn addition, similar assaults in Austria, Finland, Switzerland, and Sweden were reported.\n\nIn Cologne, police dispatched 143 local officers and 70 federal officers to restore order. However, due to the darkness and the number of people involved, police chief Wolfgang Albers conceded that their efforts were not effective. In March, media outlets reported that there were not 143, but only 80 police officers deployed at the central station, the others being in service elsewhere in downtown Cologne. Also, the number of policemen at the station was reduced later that night, as there were further police operations in the city. A police spokesman said that the corrected number had been transmitted to the Parliamentary Committee of the Interior on 11 January. However, he could not explain why it hadn't been published earlier.\n\nCologne police came under criticism for their handling of the situation, as their initial press release described the New Year's Eve celebrations as \"playful\". Days later, the German Federal Criminal Police Office said the incidents were, \"A phenomenon known in some Arab countries as \"taharrush jamai\"\" (translated as \"group sexual harassment\").\nHowever, this is not an accepted cultural practice in the Arab world\n\nOne victim who was robbed and assaulted was told to report the incident elsewhere by the police. Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière also criticized the North Rhine-Westphalia police for describing the celebrations as \"peaceful\". Police chief Wolfgang Albers later called the assaults \"a completely new dimension of crime\".\n\nDüsseldorf police told reporters they were investigating whether the attacks in Cologne were linked to a gang of roughly 2,000 North African men, a known criminal network in Düsseldorf.\n\nOn 7 January, the police acknowledged an information blackout until the interior committee of the parliament of North Rhine-Westphalia discussed the events on 11 January. That same day, a report by a leading police officer in Cologne on New Year's Eve was cited in several newspapers, including criticism that the number of police officers was too small to deal with the events. According to the report, the perpetrators acted \"with a disrespect I didn't see in 29 years of service.\" Some shouted, \"I am Syrian! You have to treat me friendly. Mrs Merkel has invited me!\" Others tore their immigration papers while saying, \"You can't do me anything. Tomorrow I will go and get new papers.\" Because of the allegations of misinformation and the \"loss of public trust\", Albers was transferred to provisional retirement for his handling of the situation on 8 January.\n\nThe German Federal Criminal Police Office (Bundeskriminalamt, BKA) stated on 9 January that the incidents of collective sexual harassment were a phenomenon known in Arab countries as \"taharrush gamea\" (\"communal sexual harassment\"). The BKA announced their intention to investigate the facts about such incidents in all German federal states and learn how to combat them.\n\nOn 15 January, the Cologne police offered a reward of 10,000 euro for relevant information leading to the identification of an offender. The posters were hung up near airports, railway stations, and refugees' residences. In Hamburg, 2,000 euro were offered as a reward.\n\nIn reaction to the events at Cologne, the North Rhine-Westfalia police conducted several raids in refugee accommodations all over its territory in the following days to increase pressure on criminal migrants. Among others, raids were conducted in Recklinghausen, where the perpetrator of a January 2016 attempted attack at a police station in Paris lived before committing that crime. Further raids were reported from Kalk, Cologne; and Ahlen. In Ahlen, only 144 of 230 registered persons were found during the raid; the others had fled. Around 50 percent of those present lived under false identities. The police opened 86 criminal proceedings for illegal residence, drug crimes, abuse of social benefits, and personal injury.\n\nCologne police stepped up police presence at Cologne Carnival in reaction to the incidents. More than 2,500 security forces were deployed, more than three times the amount of forces utilized in the previous year. Cologne police also kept sexual assault suspects out of the Carnival celebrations with entry bans. An all-girls high school in Cologne was closed at Carnival, while others addressed the incidents in class and informed their pupils about preventive measures. Nevertheless, on 5 February, three rapes were reported, at least two of them by migrants.\n\nThere were conflicting reports about the number of detainees. According to initial reports by the BBC, eight suspects, all asylum seekers, were detained in Cologne, though no official statement on their involvement was made. Further reports said that five men from the ages of 18 to 24 were arrested, although they were later found to have committed unrelated crimes. Reports made on 7 January suggested that police officials detained more people (namely asylum seekers) on New Year's Eve than they admitted publicly. According to a police report leaked to the media, there were 71 people controlled, of whom 11 were arrested, and four taken into custody. As of 7 January, the police of Cologne only officially confirmed there were 16 suspects.\n\nOn 8 January, Cologne Police announced the arrest of two suspects in connection with the attacks. They were identified—in keeping with German privacy law—as Issam D., a 16-year-old Moroccan; and Mohamed T., a 23-year-old Tunisian. Both were said to be asylum seekers. The police reported that they found video footage of assaults on New Year's Eve on their mobile phones. The suspects were also found in possession of a piece of paper with Arabic-German translations of derogatory sexual terms and phrases including \"I want sex with you\" and \"I will kill you\". Both of them were set free shortly after their arrest.\n\nAs of 8 January, federal police had identified 31 suspects, among whom were 18 identified asylum seekers. Of these, 17 were said by the Interior Ministry to be from Algeria or Morocco. Two Germans and one U.S. citizen were among the suspects identified. An additional 19 suspects were later identified by Cologne's police as being \"almost exclusively\" migrants. Of the 19 suspects identified on 11 January, 14 were men from Morocco and Algeria. Ten of the 19 were asylum seekers, nine of whom had arrived in Germany after September 2015; the other nine suspects may have been residing in the country illegally. The number of identified suspects had risen to 23 by 12 January. The department of public prosecution opened criminal proceedings against 13 people, five of whom were in detention at that time.\n\nOn 19 January, it was reported that there was a first arrest because of allegations of sexual offences. The detainee was a 26-year old Algerian who was living in an refugee camp in Kerpen. He was arrested on the last weekend along with a fellow countryman who was accused of theft. By 21 January, there were 30 suspects for the Cologne incidents, 25 of whom were of Moroccan or Algerian origin. Fifteen of the 30 were asylum seekers, two underage unaccompanied refugees. Eight people were in investigative custody.\n\nOn 29 January, it was reported that a further suspect, a man from Algeria, was arrested due to property offence and resistance against enforcement officers. Criminal investigations in Cologne were conducted against 44 people, North Africans by majority, ten of whom were in investigative custody as of 29 January. The number of identified suspects in Cologne was 73 by 15 February, with 15 of them being in investigative custody. A large majority of the suspects were from Algeria and Morocco. 30 Moroccans, 27 Algerians, and three Tunisians were among the suspects, along with a Libyan, an Iranian, four Iraqis, a Montenegrin, three Syrians, and three Germans. By 17 March, the number of suspects had again risen to 120, 14 of whom were in investigative custody. By 6 April, the number of suspects in Cologne was 153, 149 of whom were non-Germans; 103 of the 153 suspects were from Morocco or Algeria. Sixty-eight persons were asylum seekers; 18 were residing in Germany illegally, and the legal status of 47 persons was unclear. Four persons were underage, unaccompanied refugees.\n\nOn 24 February, a first suspect, a 23-year-old Moroccan was sentenced to a penalty of six months on probation for stealing a cellphone from a woman as she was taking a picture of the Cologne Cathedral on New Year's Eve and also for carrying a small amount of drugs. Criminal proceedings were also taking place against two other men from Tunisia and Algeria.\n\nAnother suspect in Cologne, identified only as Mehdi E.-B., a 19-year-old asylum seeker from Morocco, was recognized by victims, including a female student, in a TV report of \"Spiegel TV\". Along with seven alleged accomplices, he was accused of sexual assaulting the victims out of a group. When the police attempted to detain the men, conducting raids in Cologne, Hamm, Troisdorf, and Bornheim on 18 February, they had already fled. Mehdi E.-B. was reported to have lived under a false identity at first, according to witnesses. The janitor of the migrant's residence said he had \"stolen like a raven\". In one residence, 20 cellphones were found, one of which had been stolen on New Year's Eve. Mehdi E.-B. was already sentenced for stealing a cellphone together with a man identified only as Otman K. in January 2016. Otman K. was suspected of being a member of the same group of accused sexual assailants as Mehdi E.-B.\n\nOn 8 March, for the first time, Cologne police published photos of wanted men who are suspected in the New Year's Eve assaults. The photos were partly taken from victims who managed to take pictures of their assailants. In total, the police evaluated 1,100 hours of video footage taken from CCTV cameras and witnesses. A police spokesman explained that the sophisticated work that it took to link the men in the footage to specific crimes was a reason behind the late publishing. The next day, two of the wanted men were put under investigative custody. A 26-year-old man was arrested in Kerpen, while a 31-year-old man from Algeria turned himself in to the police in Hamm. On March 9, police released further photos, one showing a man firing a weapon into the air; officials clarified that no one was injured by the gunshot.\n\nOn 28 April, a 19-year-old Moroccan and a 24-year-old person were arrested in northern Switzerland. The Moroccan was one of the suspects in the Cologne assaults, and had applied for asylum in Switzerland.\n\nOn 25 November, it was reported that in 369 of the 509 crime cases, which were sexually motivated, no perpetrators could be identified. The prosecutor's office could initiate 58 criminal investigations against 83 persons. Only 6 were convicted so far. The highest sentence was 1 year and 9 month due to sexual assault and robbery. 52 of the accused men had to be acquitted due to lack of unanimous identification. The investigators failed to convict more of the perpetrators because the vicinity of the station was \"dark and overcrowded\" and the CCTV recordings were of \"miserable\" quality.\n\nIn Düsseldorf, initially nine persons were named as suspects, eight of whom are migrants. According to a media report, an 18-year-old woman from Mönchengladbach recognized a perpetrator in a report of \"Spiegel TV\" and decided to make a complaint to the police afterwards. The 33-year-old man, who is suspected to have sexually offended the woman in Düsseldorf out of a group, was arrested by investigators. In Dortmund, nine further people were put under suspicion, seven of them migrants. In Bielefeld, four migrants from Morocco and Algeria were identified as suspects. By 20 January, the North Rhine-Westphalia Police, responsible for Bielefeld, Cologne, Dortmund, and Düsseldorf, reported that 52 people were being treated as suspects; a majority of them were of non-German origin. In Düsseldorf, in 62 of the 103 sexually motivated crimes no suspect could be identified by November. One of the Düsseldorf perpetrators was sentenced to one year and 10 month in prison. Criminal proceedings against two further men are in progress. In Bielefeld, in five of the 20 cases no perpetrator could be identified by November. In Dortmund, by November, two men were convicted because of sexual assaults, one received a financial penalty, the other was sentenced to 25 hours of community service.\n\nEight people were named as suspects in Hamburg, all of them migrants and some of them refugees. On 20 January, Hamburg police published photos of two wanted persons who are suspected to have sexually assaulted an 18-year-old girl in the early morning hours of 1 January on the street of Große Freiheit, which led to the arrest of a 29-year-old male migrant from Afghanistan on 21 January. He was recognised by a security guard of a refugee reception center in Hamburg. A second suspected migrant was freed shortly after his arrest due to a lack of adequate suspicion. On 26 January, Hamburg police published another photo of a wanted person, who is suspected to have sexually assaulted two 20-year-old women on New Year's Eve while acting as part of a group. On 5 February, a 33-year-old man from Iran was reported to have been arrested in a refugee reception center in Hamburg and taken into investigative custody under suspicion of assaulting the two women in Hamburg. On 4 February, Hamburg police released photos of two further suspects. The nationwide TV series \"Aktenzeichen XY … ungelöst\" was used for the manhunt for the Hamburg perpetrators.\n\nIn Stuttgart, a 20-year-old asylum seeker from Iraq was detained for sexually assaulting two girls while acting out of a group. In Frankfurt, the police is investigating ten men in the ages of 15 to 27, all asylum seekers or refugees, who were temporarily arrested for pickpocketing on New Year's Eve near the bridge of Eiserner Steg. They are trying to determine if these men were involved in the sexual assaults. One of the suspects is in investigative custody.\n\nReinhard Merkel, a law professor from Hamburg, said that convicting the suspects, especially for sexual offences, will be difficult because an unequivocal identification by the victims is needed, which is often not the case. Furthermore, policemen stated that the video footage of the cameras within and outside the Cologne main station is partly unusable.\n\nBy mid-February 2016, 73 suspects of criminal offences during Cologne's New Year's Night 2015/2016 had been identified of whom 58 had been arrested.The 73 consisted of 30 Moroccans, 27 Algerians, 4 Iraqis, 3 Tunisians, 3 Syrians, 3 Germans, and one each from Libya, Iran and Montenegro. While certain news outlets and campaigners considered only the arrested suspects coming from Syria or Iraq as \"refugees\", they had concluded that only three of the 58 arrested suspects were \"refugees\".<br>In reaction, Cologne's chief prosecutor Bremer angrily retorted that \"the overwhelming majority\" of the 73 suspected men were either asylum seeker, asylum applicant, or illegal immigrant, which \"he\" all considered to \"fall into the general category of refugees\".\n\nAt Karneval der Kulturen (\"Carnival of Cultures\") festival in Kreuzberg, Berlin, on Pentecost weekend, twelve similar crimes were reported, eight of which were sexual assaults. Seven men of Tunisian, Moroccan, Libyan, and Algerian origin were arrested on charges of theft. Four further men were arrested under allegations of sexual assault. The press reported the case of two teenage girls, ages 17 and 18, who were encircled and molested by a group of ten young men. According to the police, the suspects of these sexual assaults had a Turkish and Lebanese \"migration background\". In addition, a 16-year-old girl and a 22-year-old woman were sexually assaulted. In the case of the 22-year-old victim, a 40-year-old man from Turkey was arrested as a suspect. On 30 May, it was reported that a total of 18 complaints were made to the police after the music festival of \"Schlossgrabenfest\" in Darmstadt. Like the Karneval der Kulturen case, women were encircled by groups of young men. Three suspected asylum seekers, ages 28 to 31, were arrested, and additional suspects are being sought by the police. On 17 August, \"Frankfurter Allgemeine\" reported that the number of sexual assaults on public festivals in the state of Hesse is greater than officially known and organizers of such events are at the boundaries of what's possible in order to protect the visitors. Further sexual assaults by migrants were reported from public festivals in Wolfhagen and Herborn.\n\nOn 28 October, similar sexual assaults by asylum seekers from Gambia were reported in the city of Freiburg. Two women were assaulted by a total of 17 men who encircled and molested them on the square of Stühlinger Kirchplatz. A passerby intervened, but was attacked by the group. The police arrested three main suspects, all ages 17, 19, and 20. The victims identified them unequivocally. Previously, on 4 July, an attempted rape by an asylum seeker from Sub-Saharan Africa, who was arrested the same night, was reported from a discothèque, \"White Rabbit\" in Freiburg. In January, refugees had been banned from some discothèques in Freiburg after a similar case had taken place, but they were eventually allowed to reenter the \"White Rabbit\" discothèque with a special ID card following protests. On 19 October, \"Der Spiegel\" reported sexual assaults by migrants in the Leipzig cultural center \"Conne Island\". Initially, refugees were allowed to enter the center on a low price, but after several cases of sexual assaults were reported by women, the integration project was stopped and a registration by e-mail is now necessary for migrants to enter.\n\nAt least three rapes were reported at the Cologne Carnival. A 17-year-old asylum seeker from Afghanistan was suspected of raping a 22-year-old woman and a teenager was subsequently arrested at a residence for refugees. The suspect was released the following day, but another 17-year-old male from the same accommodation was then arrested. A second rape was also reported in Cologne. At Carnival celebrations in Stukenbrock in the district of Gütersloh, a third rape was reported. A 29-year-old asylum seeker from Nigeria was strongly suspected to have raped a 24-year-old woman and was arrested.\n\nA total of 224 complaints were made to the police so far in Cologne. They consisted mostly of personal injuries, but also included 22 sexual offences. By 10 February, the number of sexual offences in Cologne at Carnival had risen to 66. 99 persons were detained in Cologne on Carnival, while 432 others were arrested temporarily. A total of 1,389 people were dismissed from Carnival celebrations by the police.\n\nJürgen Mathies, the new police chief of Cologne, said this was \"much\", but it had something to do with the fact \"that the police intervened very consistently this time.\" Nevertheless, Mathies stated that there had been a \"highly problematic clientele\": groups from Northern Africa, which converged on the stairways in front of the Cologne Cathedral. The police had to deploy additional forces on 7 February, and the security situation at Carnival was tense.\n\nWhile covering the Cologne Carnival live for Belgian television, reporter Esmeralda Labye was groped by attackers, who were apparently of European origin and whom Labye described as speaking German. One of the attackers, a 17-year-old man, turned himself in to the police the following day, accompanied by his mother. However, he denied that his actions were sexually motivated.\n\nIn Sweden, eleven reports of sexual assault on New Year's Eve 2015/2016 were made in Kalmar. False reports of sexual assault on New Year's Eve by immigrants appeared in Karlstad and Malmö, but no formal complaints were made and the police rejected the allegations. Following New Year's Eve, in January, 2500 news articles about refugee children and youth were published in Swedish media, mostly about sex crimes, and anti-immigration extremists began patrolling the streets, attacking immigrants and one policeman with foreign background; however, such articles were often unsupported and their contents rejected by the police. In Helsinki, reports of \"widespread sexual harassment\" appeared and anti-immigration extremists began patrolling the streets, which was denounced by the police as \"not making the streets safer\".\n\nSome remarks given by Cologne Mayor Henriette Reker during a press conference were interpreted as a call for women to follow a \"code of conduct\", including staying at \"arm's length\" from strangers. She later came under criticism for her comments. By the evening of 5 January, \"#einearmlänge\" (\"an arm's length\") became one of Germany's top-trending hashtags on Twitter. However, her remarks were taken out of context and were an answer by Reker to a specific question from a journalist asking for concrete examples from an existing guideline of the city of Cologne for women on how to prevent assaults from strangers. Reker called for a crisis meeting with the police in response to the incidents. She called it \"completely improper\" to link the apparently mostly North African perpetrators to refugees.\n\nThe Interior Minister of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, Ralf Jäger, said, \"We will not accept that groups of North African men gather expressly for the purpose of debasing women by sexually assaulting them.\" He added that police had to adjust to the fact that groups of men had attacked women. He also spoke against anti-immigrant groups, saying, \"What happens on the right-wing platforms and in chat rooms is at least as awful as the acts of those assaulting the women ... This is poisoning the climate of our society.\"\n\nNorth Rhine-Westphalia's Head of State, Hannelore Kraft, stated that police and courts should and will act consequently against this new dimension of violence and sexual assaults by men. She expressed her hope that as many offenders as possible are identified and punished, which had to happen regardless of background. If the requirements were met, according to her, perpetrators should also be deported. A week later, she was skeptical about any possible deportations. Even if the requirements were met, the identified perpetrators who hailed from Algeria and Morocco could not be deported as those countries would likely simply refuse to accept them back. Kraft and Jäger criticised Cologne's police leaders for not requesting police reinforcements, which were said to have been on standby on New Year's Eve. The CDU's Secretary General Peter Tauber, whose party is in opposition in North Rhine-Westphalia, urged Jäger to step down because of the events.\n\nIn the following days, Reker faced allegations that she had been well-informed by the Cologne police earlier on New Year's Eve than she previously claimed, which contradicted her own statements. Jäger was attacked by the opposition parties in North Rhine-Westphalias parliament, CDU, and FDP, which applied for an parliamentary inquiry committee for the Cologne events. In reaction, the state government published a timeline of its communication with the police authorities. This timeline shows that some information was transmitted to the state government late by Jäger, e.g. with a delay of three days after New Year's Day. The state government defended itself, including Jäger, by stating that the true extent of the assaults was \"not foreseeable\" at this time.\n\nAccording to Cologne's Express newspaper, a police memo was leaked. Opposition politicians have said that Jäger should resign his position over what the leaked memo said.\n\nFrom March to November the parliamentary inquiry committee held 53 sessions in the Landtag of North Rhine-Westphalia and heard more than 150 witnesses. A reported is to be filed until the end of 2016. As a result, it was stated by the SPD representative in the committee that it was confirmed by the evidence that \"the deployment of the security forces went wrong with graving consequences for the women affected\". CDU ad FDP opposition parties accused the state government of \"cover-up\". Minister Jäger and his leading staff couldn't resolve the contradiction that they didn't act for days as they received exceptional warning messages on their smartphones on New Year's Day.\n\nOn 5 January, between 200 and 300 women protested outside the Cologne Cathedral, demanding respect for women and action from Chancellor Angela Merkel. Another protest was held in Cologne on 12 March against misogyny and racism that was demonstrated during the assaults.\n\nMany Germans reacted with concern and anger. In neighbouring Düsseldorf, where 113 complaints to the police in connection with sexual assaults and theft were made, a vigilante group was founded as a reaction to the events. The related Facebook page of the \"Düsseldorf passt auf\" (\"Düsseldorf Watches Out\") group garnered more than 3,300 members within two days. The Düsseldorf police denounced their activities and referred to the monopoly on legitimate use of force of the German state. The sales of legally available pepper and tear gas sprayers increased significantly. Gun manufacturers and dealers (Verband Deutscher Büchsenmacher und Waffenfachhändler VDB) also claimed increased sales due to the events. In the Rhineland, requests for \"small weapons licences\" (\"Kleiner Waffenschein\") increased as well.\n\nThe phrase \"Rapefugees not welcome\" was coined by right wing demonstrators as a slogan following the events in Cologne. Lutz Bachmann, founder of the organization \"Patriotic Europeans Against the Islamisation of the West\" (Pegida), which sold merchandise featuring the slogan, was accused of sedition.\n\nOn 10 January, eleven people were beaten in Cologne, specifically in an area located close to where the sexual assaults occurred. The victims included six Pakistanis, three Guineans, and two Syrians. All of the victims were injured and hospitalized. The attacks were quickly reported by the media and condemned by Justice Minister Heiko Maas.\n\nMerkel and Justice Minister Heiko Maas condemned the assaults. Maas described the assaults as a \"completely new dimension of organized criminality.\" Merkel contacted Reker, calling for a tough response. She said that everything must be done \"to find the perpetrators as quickly and comprehensively as possible and punish them, regardless of their origin or background\", and promised preventive measures for the Carnival in February. Sigmar Gabriel (SPD), vice chancellor and Minister for Economics, demanded quicker deportations of sentenced criminal migrants and explained that there should be \"zero tolerance for criminality and sexual assaults\". Claudia Roth (Green Party) stated that while the attacks could not be excused, they were \"not the first eruptions of sexual violence in our society\". She also accused an Internet-\"organised mob\" of \"calling for a hunt on non-white people and taking revenge\".\n\nAccording to Volker Bouffier, vice-president of Chancellor Angela Merkel's CDU party, the attacks have weakened the consensus in favour of Germany's accepting large numbers of refugees from Syria and the Middle East. He said, \"Cologne has changed everything. People are now doubting.\" On 9 January, the CDU adopted the \"Mainz declaration\" (\"Mainzer Erklärung\"), in which the party toughens its acting against criminality by migrants. Random police checks were also included, as well as quicker deportations of criminal migrants even if they were only sentenced to imprisonment on probation. To date, acceptance for asylum seekers can only be denied if they were sentenced to a three-year imprisonment at least, with a deportation below this degree of penalty possible but not mandatory.\n\nOn 12 January, Hans-Jürgen Papier, former head of the German Federal Constitutional Court, criticised Merkel's refugee policies. According to his statement, the public mood has shifted after the events of Cologne, which \"manifested a partial failure of the state as a guarantor of freedom and safety of its citizens.\" He demanded an \"altering of the course\" by the government and added, \"We have a legal vacuum regarding the protection of external [German] borders, which must not be.\"\n\nOn 14 January, criticism of Merkel grew as former chancellor Gerhard Schröder and Lower Saxony Prime Minister Stephan Weil (both SPD) questioned her policies. Weil stated that the events of Cologne were \"a low blow in every sense\", and that Merkel's decision to open the borders \"fatally permanently led to a special role of Germany in Europe\". After the events, Schröder called for a crackdown of the state and a consistent deportation of offenders, saying, \"Such people, no matter of which cultural background, have no place in Germany.\" He also accused Merkel of not having a plan against such events in the refugee crisis. Former foreign minister Joschka Fischer (Green Party) defended the chancellor and demanded restraint of the Constitutional Court judges Papier and Udo Di Fabio, who accused Merkel of breaking the law.\n\nOn 15 January, German Minister of Finance, Wolfgang Schäuble (CDU), suggested to establish the possibility of a national deployment of the German Federal Armed Forces as \"nearly all other countries\" did. He insisted that only securing the EU external borders was the solution to the migrant crisis. On the same day, opinion polls like \"Politbarometer\" showed declining approval for Merkel's migration policy and a significant rise of approval for the right-wing AfD party, which would be the third political force with 10 to 11 percent of votes, but up to 15 percent in some federal states.\n\nAn opinion poll conducted by INSA/YouGov and published on 18 January predicted a 12.5 percent approval for the AfD for the federal elections while CDU figures fell to 32.5 percent, an all-time low for this poll.\n\nOn 16–19 January 2016, several politicians demanded alterations to Merkel's migration policies in reaction to the events, including Horst Seehofer, Prime Minister of Bavaria, his predecessor Edmund Stoiber, and German Minister of Transportation Alexander Dobrindt. All of them are members of the Bavarian CSU party, which is in the federal government but opposes Merkel's actions during the migration crisis.\n\nAround 50 CDU Bundestag MPs wrote a letter to Merkel demanding the closure of the German borders. However, other CDU MPs showed their support for Merkel. SPD chief Sigmar Gabriel urged Merkel to act, and demanded that Morocco and Algeria take back the migrants to be deported by Germany. Others such as SPD vice chairwoman Aydan Özoğuz warned of closing the borders.\n\nOn 14 March, a joint press conference was held with the minister president of Saxony-Anhalt, Reiner Haseloff, after the three state elections in Saxony-Anhalt, Baden-Württemberg, and Rhineland-Palatinate, which saw a significant loss of votes for the CDU party and a rise of votes for the AfD party. During the press conference, Merkel tied the electoral success of the AfD among others to the Cologne sexual assaults. At the same time, she contradicted CSU chief Horst Seehofer, who said that the AfD party's success would be an existential problem for the CDU/CSU. \"I do not see it as an existential problem of the CDU, but I see it as a problem,\" Merkel told the press. Haseloff agreed with Merkel, saying, \"The actual rise, which came for the AfD in the polls has a city name: It's Cologne.\" SPD chief Sigmar Gabriel accused Seehofer of strengthening the AfD by using \"the same sayings\".\n\nBBC correspondent Gavin Hewitt describes the attacks as having \"a profound impact on the rest of Europe. Certainly the boldness of the assaults and the sense of a powerless state will haunt the victims, but what has also been lost is trust – the essential glue in any society.\"\n\nA Cologne-based imam, Sami Abu-Yusuf, controversially said in an interview with the Russian television channel REN TV that the women in Cologne were responsible for the incidents, because they were \"running around half naked ... It's not surprising that the men attacked them. Dressing up like that is like pouring oil into the fire.\" Volker Beck (Green Party) reported Abu-Yusuf to the police for \"inciting criminal offences\". The Ministry of the Interior of North Rhine-Westphalia acknowledged that Abu-Yusuf was under surveillance by the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution. Abu-Yusuf responded that his remarks were translated incorrectly and reported out of context by REN TV as he merely explained the women's appearance as the reason why they were attacked by others but did not blame the victims.\n\nSeveral media outlets at first did not cover the story and, according to Jörg Luyken, only started reporting on the incidents on 5 January, after a wave of anger on social media made covering them unavoidable. This delay was criticised by several politicians, including Hans-Peter Friedrich. The public television channel ZDF later acknowledged that they had failed to report on the incidents despite having sufficient knowledge to do so.\n\nZDF later called the delay in reporting a \"clear misjudgment\", and said since then, it has been \"over-whelmed with hate and anger\". This has reinforced discontent previously held by parts of the German public with news coverage relating to the European migrant crisis, as well as a readiness to support the idea of the \"Lügenpresse\" (literally \"lying press\").\n\nThe delay in reporting on the assaults in the media lead to accusations that the authorities and the media attempted to ignore or cover up the attacks to avoid criticism against the current asylum and migration policy of the government. The BBC's Gavin Hewitt wrote, \"What has fuelled the sense of crisis is the suspicion—now widely held—that the German establishment is not telling the truth.\"\n\nAl Jazeera published articles on 9 January claiming that the response of German society thus far had \"little to do with protecting women and more to do with scapegoating the Middle Eastern or North African 'other' entering Germany.\"\n\nRoss Douthat, a conservative columnist for \"The New York Times\", warned of the transformative consequences of rapid, unchecked mass immigration, especially of young men. In his opinion, not only Germany has to close the borders and expel refugees who are in good health, but Merkel also has to step down, \"so that her country, and the continent it bestrides, can avoid paying too high a price for her high-minded folly.\"\n\nIn Russia, the state-run \"Rossiyskaya Gazeta\" stated that after the \"Night of the Long Fingers\" (a play on words that compares the event to the Nazis' \"Night of the Long Knives\"), German media refused \"to illuminate the extent of raids, plundering and rapes committed by refugees\".\n\nThe economic professor Hans-Werner Sinn stated on 1 February, \"The events of the New Year's night in Cologne are harbingers of massive social conflicts in the coming years and decades. With the chaotic, uncontrolled immigration from backward countries, the Federal Republic of Germany faces a heap of trouble.\" He also suggested a closure of the borders to secure freedom.\n\nAfter the assailants were described by police and victims as young foreign men who spoke neither German nor English, a debate ensued as to how to deal with a large influx of young, mostly Muslim men from cultures where women lack the freedoms and protections they enjoy in the West. Far-right and anti-immigrant groups cited the attacks as evidence of dangers related to accepting huge numbers of migrants, but similar concerns were also expressed by mainstream elements within German society.\n\nGerman feminists signed a petition opposing sexualised violence and racism, stating that it \"is wrong to highlight sexualised violence only when the perpetrators are allegedly\" perceived as \"others\" and ignore all other sexual violence, pointing to German Federal Police statistics that show there are more than 7,300 reported rapes and sexual assaults in Germany every year and \"the many more that are never reported.\"\n\nGerman feminist Alice Schwarzer wrote a book about the Cologne incidents, \"Der Schock - die Silvesternacht von Köln\" (\"The shock - New Year's Eve of Cologne\"). In it, she characterized the perpetrators as \"not any Muslims. The Muslim next door does not automatically grope women. It was the kind of men, for whom the Sharia is above the law and the woman below the man.\" In addition, she stated, \"That evening they used a for them very simple weapon: sexual violence.\" Schwarzer faced criticism by other feminists and Islamic associations in Germany.\n\nJakob Augstein criticised what he considered racism in responses to the assaults and German rape laws, stating sardonically that \"we rather abuse \"our\" women ourselves.\" German law on sexual abuse could require evidence of physical resistance for a conviction until July 2016.\n\nAfter the attacks, a January 2016 edition of French satirical magazine \"Charlie Hebdo\" included a cartoon by Riss about Alan Kurdi, a three-year-old Syrian refugee who drowned as his family tried to reach Europe. In a controversial act, the cartoon satirised fickle and reactionary sentiment towards refugees by including a caption questioning whether the boy would have grown up to be an \"ass groper in Germany\".\n\nA viral video was made, containing the personal details of one of the victims and accusing her of making false allegations to spread anti-Muslim propaganda. The video circulated among German Islamic extremists, including Pierre Vogel. The victim, fearing reprisals, managed to get the video removed by telling its creator that she was prepared for legal action.\n\nThere were reports of tourists cancelling trips to Cologne in the aftermath of the attacks, including one tour group calling off their entire summer schedule in the city.\n\nBelgium's immigration minister ordered migrants to participate in \"respect for women\" courses in order to calm public opinion over the sex attacks. The Deputy Prime Minister of the Netherlands and Minister for Social Affairs Lodewijk Asscher condemned Henriette Reker for implying that women could have prevented the attacks on themselves.\n\nPope Francis acknowledged that Europeans had the right to be concerned over terrorism and changes to \"cultural and social structures\" via immigration, but stated that Europe \"has the means to defend the centrality of the human person and to find the right balance between its twofold moral responsibility to protect the rights of its citizens and to ensure assistance and acceptance to migrants\".\n\nPrime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orbán issued a call for immediate halt of all immigration to Europe and establishment of \"European defence line\" on Greece's northern borders with Macedonia and Bulgaria.\n\nPoland's Foreign Minister Witold Waszczykowski sent an official letter to Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the German Minister of Foreign Affairs, asking if there were any Polish citizens hurt during the events. Waszczykowski criticized the German authorities for their handling of the situation. He also stated that it is likely that the German government tried to conceal the events and ban people from telling others about these events. Waszczykowski added that, in his view, the migration wave to Europe (which he linked to the events) was used by the Islamic State or other terrorist organizations.\n\nIn a letter sent by Polish Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobro to German EU commissioner Günther Oettinger on 9 January, Ziobro stated that information about these events was concealed by German media and that there is censorship in Germany.\n\nPrime Minister of Slovakia Robert Fico called for an emergency summit of EU in the wake of the attacks, and declared he will act to stop Muslim refugees from entering the country. Fico stated, \"We don't want something like what happened in Germany taking place in Slovakia.\" Czech Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka issued a statement supporting Slovakia's proposal.\n\nThe sexual assaults were compared by several newspapers and authorities like German Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA) with attacks on women reported after the Arab Spring in numerous public places in Cairo, especially Tahrir Square, the most prominent victim of which was television journalist and correspondent Lara Logan. Egyptian women and, in some cases, foreign journalists were surrounded by groups of young men, often having been touched with sexual intent and partly undressed, or stripped naked and gang-raped.\n\nAccording to a report on the Cologne events published by the BKA—and as cited by \"Die Welt\" on 10 January—the phenomenon is known in some North African/Middle eastern countries as \"taharrush gamea\". It was reported that \"[t]he BKA knew from some Arab countries the phenomenon of jointly committed sexual harassment of women in public. This type of crime was called there 'taharrush gamea' ('communal sexual harassment').\"\n\nSome women said that the events should not become a \"political football\" or allow a focus only on non-German suspects, since German women had been fighting against sexual harassment at such celebrations and elsewhere for many years.\n\nOn 11 February, Jürgen Mathies, the new police chief of Cologne, stated:\n\n[Some perpetrators had made appointments for celebrations on New Year's Eve] on the social media. Some of them said there: 'We go to Cologne, there will be a big party.' There is no evidence that we are dealing with structures of organized crime. It is rather the case that the phenomenon of such sexual assaults out of groups is a massive problem in Cairo for example. The perpetrators probably knew from their home countries the behavior that women are encircled by many men at the same time and then abused. However, I did not know about this phenomenon in Germany so far.\n\nQuestioned as to why most perpetrators in Cologne are not accused of sexual offences but of robbery and theft, Mathies replied, \"It is easier to determine on the basis of video images: That person just took a cell phone away. Than: He has fingered a woman. These images are indeed anything but good.\"\n\nIn May 2016, \"De Correspondent\" published an analysis of the events based on eye-witness accounts, concluding that:\n\nThe bottom line in our reconstruction, though, is that the initial impression of a mob of 1,000 refugees going after the women of Germany never went away. And an entire group of people continues to be associated with crimes it had nothing to do with. Based on what we know so far, a more accurate description of what happened last New Year's Eve might be: several dozen young men, many of North African origin, are suspected of sexually assaulting and robbing hundreds of women in the crowd. The crimes were made possible by the crowded New Year's Eve conditions in and around Cologne's main train station. They appear to have been further facilitated by poor coordination among the different police forces responsible for responding to the situation.\n\n"}
{"id": "48742739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48742739", "title": "Pear people", "text": "Pear people\n\nThe Pear (also Por) are an ethnic group indigenous to northwestern Cambodia. As of 2008, their total population was 1,830 people living in three or four villages in Rovieng District\nof Preah Vihear Province.\n"}
{"id": "2206044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2206044", "title": "Polyandry in Tibet", "text": "Polyandry in Tibet\n\nPolyandry is a marital arrangement in which a woman has several husbands. In Tibet, those husbands are often brothers; \"fraternal polyandry\". Concern over which children are fathered by which brother falls on the wife alone. She may or may not say who the father is because she does not wish to create conflict in the family or is unsure who the biological father is. Historically the social system compelled marriage within a social class.\n\nWhen the People's Republic of China annexed Tibet, political systems in many regions of Tibet remained unchanged until, between 1959 and 1960, political reforms changed the land ownership and taxation systems. Professor Melvyn Goldstein believed this affected Tibet's traditional marriage system. With the change in social stratification the \"du-jung\" and the \"mi-bo\" lower classes were the first to avoid the forms of marriage that characterized the older society.\n\nSince 1981, the Tibet Autonomous Region government no longer permits new polyandric marriages under family law. Even though it is currently illegal, after collective farming was phased out and the farmed land reverted in the form of long-term leases to individual families, polyandry in Tibet is \"de facto\" the norm in rural areas.\n\nStudies have attempted to explain the existence of polyandry in Tibet. One reason put forward in traditional literature is that by not allowing land to be split between brothers, Tibetan families retained farms sufficiently large to continue supporting their family. Another reason for polyandry is that the mountainous terrain makes some of the farm land difficult to farm, requiring more physical strength. Women take multiple husbands because they are strong and able to help tend their land.\n\nThe Tibetan social organization under Lhasa control from the 17th century on was quasi-feudal, in that arable land was divided and owned by aristocratic families, religious organizations, and the central government and the population was subject to those district divisions. The population was further divided into social classes: \n\nThese wealthier family units hereditarily owned estates leased from their district authority, complete with land titles. In Goldstein's research about the Gyantse district specifically, he found them owning typically from to of land each. Their primary civil responsibility was to pay taxes (\"tre-ba\" and \"khral-pa\" means \"taxpayer\"), and to supply corvée services that included both human and animal labor to their district authority. According to Goldstein, the entire family structure and marriage system were subordinated to serve the land and corporate family unit.\n\nThe family structure and marriage system of \"tre-ba\" were characterized by two fundamental principles: \n\nA \"stem family\" is one in which a married child is inextricably linked to his natal family in \"a common household\". The \"mono-marital principle\" dictates that for each and every generation, one and only one marriage is permitted collectively among all the male siblings, and the children born out of this marriage are members of the family unit who have full legal rights.\n\nThe family organization was based on these two patterns to avoid the partitioning of their estates. A generation with two or more conjugal families was seen as unstable because it could produce serious conflicts that could divide their corporate family land. As a matter of fact, Tibetan inheritance rules of family land, mainly based on agnatic links, did provide for each generation to partition the land between brothers, but this was ignored to prevent the estate unit from being threatened. Polygamous marriage, therefore arose as a solution to this potential threat.\n\nTo elucidate, let us consider a family with two or more sons. Tibetan inheritance rules gave all males of the family, the right to claim a part of the family estate, so if each son took a different bride, there would be different conjugal families, and this would lead to the partitioning of the land among the different sons' families. To avoid this situation, the solution was a fraternal polyandrous marriage, where the brothers would share a bride. Bi-fraternal polyandrous marriages were more common than tri-fraternal or quadri-fraternal polyandry, because the latter forms of marriage were often characterized by severe familial tensions (reference missing). Different mechanisms were employed to reduce the number of sons within a household, such as making one son a celibate monk, or sending away a son to become an adoptive bridegroom to a family without male children.\n\nAnother kind of marriage, although uncommon, is the \"polygynous marriage\". In a family where all the children were female, sisterly polygynous marriage represented the most common choice. In traditional inheritance rules, only males had rights over the land, but where there were no males to inherit them, the daughters had the right over the corporation’s land. To maintain the familial estate unit, the daughters would share a bridegroom who will move matrilocally (as opposed to the patrilocal principle where the brides move into the husband's family) and become a member of his wife's family.\n\nBigenerational polygamy was present as an application of the mono-marital principle. Let us consider a family in which the mother died before the son was married. If the widower remarried another woman, two conjugal families would have been created, leading to the eventual partition of the estate. Bigenerational polyandry, whereby the father shared a wife with his son, was therefore the solution to avoid this problem. Conversely, when a woman with no male offspring was widowed, she would share a husband with her daughter (\"bigenerational polygyny\"), thus avoiding land partitioning (reference missing).\n\nIn these mono-marital stem families, the family head, who had a dominant role in the family, was called \"trong bey abo\" (or simply \"abo\"). The \"abo\" who managed the property and resources of the family unit, was always a male, and almost invariably the oldest male of the elder generation in power. Sometimes, a younger brother would assume the \"abo\" role when the eldest male retired.\n\nIn taxpayer families, polyandrous and monogamist marriage were the more common forms of marriage, while much less widespread was the polygynous marriage. Bigenerational forms of polyandry were, however, very rare.\n\nThe householder class (\"du-jung\" or \"dud-chung-ba\") comprised peasants who held only small plots of land that were legally and literally \"individual\" possessions. Land inheritance rules were different from taxpayer families, determined by the district authority and not strictly hereditary to the family unit.\n\nThe householder family structure — unlike the taxpayer families — lacked the single marriage per generation requirement to avoid land parceling. When a son married he often established a new household and split off from the original family unit. If taxpayer sons married that created succession for the family corporation and bound them to the estate for patrimonial and land reasons. Householder marriages did not incur that responsibility, and they generally married for love and were more often monogamist. The small number of polyandry cases within the householder class were limited to only the wealthier families.\n\nThe landless peasants (\"mi-bo\") were not obligated to and did not have any heritable rights to land. Like the householders, they tended to have less polyandry than the taxpayer families.\n\nAs has been seen, fraternal polyandry was a form of marriage that was prevalent among the \"tre-ba\" class. Traditionally, marriages were arranged by the parents, often when the children were still very young. As \"tre-ba\" marriages were decided for patrimonial reasons, the brides' and bridegrooms' personal preferences were of no consequence. In polyandrous conjugal family, the eldest brother was, more often than not, the dominant person in the household. All the other brothers, however, shared the work equally, and had the right to sexual relations with their common wife, who had to treat them equally.\n\nAll children were treated equally, and a \"father\" was not allowed to show any favoritism, even if he knew who his biological children really were, as biological paternity was not regarded as important. Similarly, the children considered all their uncles as their fathers, and a child avoided treating members of the elder generation differently, even if they knew who their biological father was. The children would usually only address the eldest surviving husband as \"father\".\n\nDivorce was quite simple. If one of the brothers in a polyandrous marriage felt displeased, he only had to leave the household. Polyandrous marriages were often characterized by tensions and clashes for a variety of different reasons. For example, conflicts might arise because a younger brother wanted to contest the authority of his eldest brother; sometimes, sexual favoritism might occur, generating tension among the male partners in the marriage, especially so when there were significant age differences among the brothers.\n\nPolyandry declined rapidly in the first decade after the establishment of Tibet Autonomous Region, and was banned during the Cultural Revolution as part of the \"Four Olds\". However, it regained popularity in the 1980s as the policies relaxed and the people's commune system broke down. A 1988 survey by the Tibet University throughout Tibet found that 13.3% of families were polyandric, and 1.7% were polygynous. Currently, polyandry is present in all Tibetan areas, but particularly common in some rural regions of Tsang and Kham that are faced with extreme living conditions. A 2008 study of several villages in Xigaze and Qamdo prefectures found that 20-50% of the families were polyandric, with the majority having two husbands. For some remote settlements, the number was as high as 90%. Polyandry is very rare among urban residents or non-agricultural households.\n\nA regulation issued by government of Tibet Autonomous Region in 1981 approved all polygamous marriages before the date of implementation, but not those formed after the date, with no prosecution for violating it. In practice, such a family would be registered as a monogamous family between the wife and the eldest husband.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23545487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23545487", "title": "Prison Litigation Reform Act", "text": "Prison Litigation Reform Act\n\nThe Prison Litigation Reform Act (PLRA), 42 U.S.C. § 1997e, is a U.S. federal law that was enacted in 1996. Congress enacted PLRA in response to a significant increase in prisoner litigation in the federal courts; the PLRA was designed to decrease the incidence of litigation within the court system.\n\nFor the preceding 20 to 30 years, many US prisons and jails had been enjoined to make certain changes based on findings that the conditions of the institutions violated the constitutional rights of inmates (in particular, freedom from cruel and unusual punishment or the right to due process).\n\nMany of the injunctions came as a result of consent decrees entered into between inmates and prison officials and endorsed by federal courts so relief was not necessarily tied to violations found. Many state officials and members of Congress had complained of the breadth of relief granted by federal judges, as the injunctions often required expensive remedial actions.\n\nThe PLRA was designed to curb the discretion of the federal courts in those types of actions. Thus, the central requirement of the act was a provision that a court \"shall not grant or approve any prospective relief unless the court finds that such relief is narrowly drawn, extends no further than necessary to correct the violation of the Federal right, and is the least intrusive means necessary to correct the violation of the Federal right.\"\n\nThe most pointed provision of the PLRA in this context is the so-called \"automatic stay\" section, which states that a motion to terminate prospective relief \"shall operate as a stay\" of that relief for 30 days after the filing of the motion (extendable to up to 90 days for \"good cause\") and ending when the court rules on the motion.\n\nIn \"Miller v. French\", 530 U.S. 327 (2000), inmates attacked the constitutionality of the \"automatic stay\" provision as a violation of separation of powers.\n\nThe Supreme Court reversed, 5–4, and held that the PLRA did not set aside a final judgment of a federal court. Rather, it operated to change the underlying law and so required the altering of the prospective relief issued under the old law. Also, the Court noted that separation of powers did not prevent Congress from changing applicable law and then imposing the consequences of the court's application of the new legal standard. Finally, the Court held that the stay provision did not interfere with core judicial functions, as it could not be determined whether the time limitations interfered with judicial functions by its relative brevity.\n\nOn the other hand, if the time limits interfered with the inmates' meaningful opportunity to be heard, that would be a due process problem. Since the decision below had been based on separation of powers, the due process argument was not before the Court. Thus, the constitutionality of the PLRA overall, and of the \"automatic stay\" in particular, is still undetermined, but the Court seems disposed to a measure of acceptance.\n\nAnother way Congress tried to curb prison litigation was by setting up an \"exhaustion\" requirement. Before prisoners may challenge a condition of their confinement in federal court, the PLRA requires them first to exhaust available administrative remedies by pursuing to completion whichever inmate grievance and/or appeal procedures their prison custodians provide:\nThat requirement was the subject of a Supreme Court case, \"Jones v. Bock\".\n\nThe exhaustion requirement has been widely criticized as imposing an inequitable burden on prisoners. Exhaustion must be in accordance with the administrative remedies procedure applicable to the facility in which a prisoner is confined. The procedures vary by state law and facility policy.\n\nSome federal courts issue orders that certain prisoners and other \"pro se\" litigants cannot represent themselves in federal court. However, the 11th Circuit ruled, in 2011, that a prisoner can file any post conviction claim that he wants if he files through counsel or pays a filing fee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2341163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2341163", "title": "Private community", "text": "Private community\n\nA private community is a residential community that can be an association or a proprietary organization. Associations can include condominiums, homeowner associations or cooperatives. \n\nWhereas governmental communities are financed with taxation, where taxes typically have little connection with benefits, private communities are financed as payments for benefits. In a hotel, for example, the public goods such as elevators and security are paid for from room charges.\n\nOne early American example was Lucas Place, laid out in 1851 in St. Louis, Missouri, the first of about 50 such private places unique to the city. Today, there are \"60 million people who now live in roughly 300,000 private communities\" in the United States.\n\nA noteworthy Canadian example, Arbutus Ridge Seaside Community for Active Adults in the Cowichan Valley on Vancouver Island was the first comprehensive retirement community built in Canada. It subsequently became the template and proving ground for the now accepted and commonplace age-restricted community.\n\n"}
{"id": "24189242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24189242", "title": "Prostitution in Lithuania", "text": "Prostitution in Lithuania\n\nProstitution in Lithuania is illegal, but it is common. Law enforcement is weak, corrupt and is reputedly connected to organised crime. It is estimated that there are 3,000 prostitutes in the capital Vilnius. Many of them are foreign, predominantly Russian, but there are also significant numbers from Belarus, Ukraine and Poland. Street prostitution, including underage prostitutes, is generally controlled by criminal elements.\n\nSex trafficking is a problem in the country.\n\nBoth prostitution itself and buying sex are prohibited by the Code of Administrative Offences. Related activities are prohibited by the Criminal Code. Public order laws are also used against prostitutes.\n\nProstitution itself and the clients of prostitutes are criminalised by Article 182 of the Administrative Code. The penalty is a fine of €86 to €144 for a single offence and €144 to €288 for repeat offences. Repeat offenders may also be subject to administrative arrest for up to thirty days\n\nThe following are offences under the criminal code:\n\nLithuania is a source, transit, and destination country for women and girls subjected to sex trafficking. Observers estimate 40 percent of identified Lithuanian trafficking victims are women and girls subjected to sex trafficking within the country. Lithuanian women are also subjected to sex trafficking in Western Europe and Scandinavia. Vietnamese adults and children transiting through Lithuania may be trafficking victims. The approximately 4,000 boys and girls institutionalised in more than 95 orphanages are especially vulnerable to trafficking.\n\nArticles 147 and 157 of the criminal code prohibit all forms of trafficking and prescribe penalties ranging from two to 12 years imprisonment.\n\nIn March 2015, prosecutors announced an investigation into allegations that the director of an orphanage sexually exploited boys and operated a sex trafficking ring inside the institution, offering young boys to paedophiles. The investigation remained ongoing during the reporting period. In January 2015, prosecutors announced the investigation of a state-run residential institution for children with special needs; teenage residents allegedly had been subjecting girl residents to sex trafficking. The orphanage’s director defended her institution by saying such activity is common at all Lithuanian orphanages. In March 2017, the court sentenced four men to two to four and a half years in jail for sex with juvenile residents of this orphanage and imposed one to three years probation sentences to four girls for facilitating prostitution. Prosecutors will appeal the decision asking the higher instance court to sentence the criminals for human trafficking.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Lithuania as a 'Tier 1' country.\n\n"}
{"id": "7010989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7010989", "title": "Prostitution in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Prostitution in the Republic of Ireland\n\nProstitution in Ireland is legal. However, since March 2017, it has been an offence to buy sex. Third party involvement (such as operating brothels, and other forms of pimping) is also illegal. Although the 2017 law criminalising clients was designed to reduce the demand for prostitution, as of 2018 the law has had little effect.\n\nMost prostitution in Ireland occurs indoors and is advertised via the Internet. Street prostitution has declined considerably.\n\nProstitution was both highly visible and pervasive in 18th-century Dublin, centred on Temple Bar and reflected the whole spectrum of socioeconomic class, from street prostitutes, through organised brothels to high class courtesans, who were often illegitimate daughters of the upper class. A well known example was Margaret Leeson. The role of the prostitute in 18th-century Ireland was at least partly a product of the double standard of female sexuality. Typical of this was the way that venereal disease was constructed as being spread by prostitutes rather than their largely male clients. Irish prostitutes were frequently the victims of violence against women. Early 'rescue' campaigns emerged in this time with Lady Arabella Denny and the Magdalene Asylums. These provided shelter but in return expected menial labour and penitence.\n\nThe changing nature of Irish society following the 1801 Act of Union saw a redefining of the status of women, with an idealisation of nuns at one extreme and a marginalisation of prostitutes at the other. Yet it was estimated that there were 17,000 women working as prostitutes in Dublin alone, and a further 8 brothels in Cork. Dublin's sex trade was largely centred on the Monto district, reputedly the largest red light district in Europe. A major part of the demand came from the large number of British army military personnel stationed in Ireland at the time. The ‘Wrens of the Curragh’, for instance were a group of some sixty women working as ‘army camp followers’ around the Curragh. Increasing concern regarding venereal disease, particularly as a threat to the military led to the introduction of a series of Contagious Diseases Acts in the 1860s, enabling authorities to apprehend and detain any woman suspected of prostitution and force her to submit to examination for disease. As in many other countries opposition to the Acts, provided a rallying cry for emerging women's movements. Anna Haslam in Dublin and Isabella Tod in Belfast, both of the Ladies National Association, organised opposition and a recognition not only of the plight of these women but also of the root causes.\n\nEmerging nationalism tended to see prostitution and venereal disease as legacies of colonialism that could be resolved through independence. This movement became linked to Catholic conservatism which demanded social purification of the pure Irish soul. Thus the 1920s saw the decline of Monto, as the Legion of Mary founded and led by Frank Duff successfully crusaded to close down the brothels of Monto and bring religion to the area. Prostitution continued to exist in the form of individual women selling sexual services on the streets in cities, but it was a long time before organised prostitution was seen again. However, street prostitution remained intrinsically linked to the Dublin Underworld. The 1920s and 1930s witnessed a new era Church-State morality and censorship. The Magdalene Asylums became more punitive, imprisoning young women who transgressed conventional sexual morality, some for the duration of their lives, the last asylum closing only in 1996.\n\nThe Criminal Law Amendment Act 1935 prohibited contraception and required sex crimes cases to be tried \"in camera\", preventing media coverage and contributing to the illusion of Irish purity. In the 1950s there was much public attention around the plight of Irish women working as prostitutes in England. These were portrayed not so much as 'fallen' women, but rather as innocents lured into evil. The Women's Liberation Movement of the 1970s helped to expose the double standards. Notable was the story of June Levine who collaborated with Lyn Madden, a former Dublin sex worker for twenty years in the 70s and 80s, to write \"Lyn: A Story of Prostitution\" (1987) Madden had seen her lover and pimp John Cullen firebomb the home of former sex worker and women's rights activist Dolores Lynch. Lynch perished in the fire together with her elderly mother and aunt. Madden denounced Culen and began writing the book during the ensuing trial, at which Cullen received eighteen years imprisonment. At around this time a group of street sex workers brought a successful supreme court challenge to the constitutionality of Victorian laws that required a defendant to first be identified as a common prostitute through the citing of previous convictions before conviction was possible. This successful challenge created a situation of effective decriminalisation, that also offered the women the same access to the protection of the law as anyone else. During this period prostitutes were largely independent and had a good relationship with the Gardaí. Pimping was almost unheard of, as were the other crimes previously associated with prostitution. Any suggestion of organised prostitution was limited to a small number of massage parlours in an environment where the workers were empowered to negotiate favourable terms and conditions for themselves. Also improving economic conditions and a weakening force of the Church allowed for a more visible and largely tolerated sex industry.\n\nThe Criminal Law (Sexual Offences) Act 1993, made soliciting an offence for both prostitute and customer and independent prostitution declined as the women were forced into the massage parlours to avoid arrest, where they were now disempowered by necessity and terms and conditions rapidly declined. By the late 1990s the age of the brothel, and the brothel-keeper, had truly returned. Society seemed accepting of discreet, indoor prostitution establishments and every week the mainstream entertainment magazine \"In Dublin\" ran advertisements for escort services and 'massage parlouirs' (brothels), which were usually the business operations of a small number of men and women, who knew running brothels was illegal, but were prepared to take the risk, given the massive profits involved. The magazine earned substantial revenue from these advertisements.\n\nThe blatant wealth of Ireland's brothel-keepers in the 1990s was such that the media began to take more interest. Section 23 of the Criminal Justice (Public Order) Act 1994 prohibited the advertising of brothels and prostitution and in 1999 the Censorship of Publications Board banned \"In Dublin\" magazine from carrying escort advertisements. Criminal proceedings were also brought against the magazine's publisher, Mike Hogan. The \"In Dublin\" magazine case heralded the end of escort advertising in print publications. However, the suppression of advertising had little effect as the internet and mobile phones were changing the nature of the trade. Ireland's first escort website, \"Escort Ireland\", had already established itself the previous year to take over \"In Dublin\" magazine's role.\n\nOf note was the frequent reference to the inadequacy of the existing legislation, but there was little debate about possible alternative models. While Ireland has an international commitment to protecting the well-being of women trafficked to Ireland for the purposes of prostitution, there was little or no discussion about the rights and well-being of Irish women working in prostitution. The violent murders of prostitutes Belinda Pereira, a UK resident working for a Dublin escort agency on 28 December 1996 and Sinead Kelly a young street prostitute in 1998 caused questions to be raised about the benefits of the 1993 act. Until Belinda Periera was murdered in a city centre apartment in the winter of 1996, the last murder of a prostitute while working (Dolores Lynch was murdered in her home in 1983, and seems to have no longer been working as a prostitute at the time) was in 1925 when the body of Lily O'Neill (known as \"Honor Bright\") was found in the Dublin Mountains.\n\n1999 also saw the launch of Operation Gladiator, a police operation targeting those who profit from organised prostitution. It was the first operation of its type and lasted under a year, but in that time it identified and built cases against several major Dublin brothel-keepers.\n\nOperation Quest was launched by the Gardaí in 2003, with the aim of tackling human trafficking, prostitution and criminality within the lap dancing industry, followed by Operation Hotel in 2005, with the aim of tackling the trafficking of females from Eastern Europe to work in the sex industry in Ireland. Essentially the legal framework has not changed over twenty years, but discussions about alternatives emerged in 2011 (see Politics).\n\nProstitution itself is not an offence under Irish law. However, the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences) Act of 1993 prohibits soliciting or importuning another person in a street or public place for the purpose of prostitution (this offence applies to prostitute and client). It also prohibits loitering for the purpose of prostitution, organising prostitution by controlling or directing the activities of a person in prostitution, coercing one to practice prostitution for gain, living on earnings of the prostitution of another person, and keeping a brothel or other premises for the purpose of prostitution.\n\nAdvertising brothels and prostitution is prohibited by the Criminal Justice (Public Order) Act of 1994. The minimum legal age for a prostitute in Ireland is 18 years (child prostitution legislation exists to protect persons under this age). The Criminal Law (Trafficking in Persons and Sexual Offences) Bill 2006 came into force making trafficking in persons for the purpose of their sexual exploitation a specific offence, though previous legislation already covered much of this area.\n\nOn 27 March 2017, the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences) Act 2017 was commenced into force. The Act significantly amends the 1993 Act to provide that a person who pays, gives, offers or promises to pay or give a person (including a prostitute) money or any other form of remuneration or consideration for the purpose of engaging in sexual activity with a prostitute shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of up to €500 for a first offence, and a fine of up to €1,000 for each subsequent offence.\n\nDiscussion of proposed law reform became an issue in the 2011 elections, with some support from opposition parties likely to become the new Government. A group of non-government and union bodies emerged pressuring both the current government and opposition parties to abolish prostitution, by criminalising the buying of sex, along Swedish lines. At the same time, those supporting the \"status quo\" or advocating a more liberal approach challenged this argument. In the ensuing Dáil election on 25 February, a new Government was formed by Fine Gael (70 seats) and Labour (34 seats). The women's branch of the Labour Party support criminalisation of purchase.\n\nIn June 2012, the Department of Justice and Equality issued its \"Discussion Document on Future Direction of Prostitution Legislation\". In September 2012, the Oirechtas produced a background document entitled \"Prostitution regulation in Ireland: which way now?\" This was followed by a conference in Dublin organised by the Department, to discuss policy alternatives.\nFollowing a request by the Minister for Justice and Equality, the Oireachtas Justice Committee held hearings on discussion document between December 2012 and February 2013. Prior to the hearings, a number of the committee members, such as Independent Senator Katherine Zappone, had already committed to a sex purchase ban, and the majority of submissions and presentations supported this measure and were associated with Turn Off the Red Light. In June 2013, it produced a unanimous report\n\nrecommending reform of Ireland's laws on prostitution, including criminalising purchase, and providing services for those wishing to exit prostitution. Of the opposition parties, both Fianna Fáil (20 seats) and Sinn Féin (14 seats) have expressed support for this approach at their 2013 Ardfheiseanna (party conferences), with the only dissenting voices coming from the independent bloc of deputies in the Dáil. However, there has been a reluctance on the part of the Government to act on the recommendations. A Private Member's Bill was however introduced in the Dáil in March 2013, the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences) (Amendment) Bill 2013, by Independent TD Thomas Pringle which would criminalise the purchase of sex, on behalf of Turn Off the Red Light, which was given a second reading in May 2013, receiving the support of Fianna Fáil and Sinn Féin. The Government preferred to wait for the Justice Committee report, and the bill was defeated on 7 May 2013.\n\nIn August 2014, former US President Jimmy Carter wrote to all Irish politicians urging the adoption of the criminalisation of the purchase of sex. Carter had been briefed by the Immigrant Council of Ireland, a leading figure in the Turn Off the Red Light campaign.\n\nThere are no up-to-date reliable figures estimating the number of women or men currently working in prostitution in Ireland, but one estimate is 1,000. During Ireland's economic boom male demand for female prostitution services increased. There has been a marked increase in people turning towards the internet and sites as a more effective means of advertising.\n\nFor many years prior to the 1993 Sexual Offences Act, most female prostitutes worked on the streets, but, since this time, brothels marketed as escort agencies have been the most prevalent form of prostitution. Advertising in print publications is illegal, but a very developed Internet advertising medium exists.\n\nProstitutes of many nationalities now reside in Ireland and \"Ruhama\", an organisation opposed to prostitution, reported to the government in 2006 claiming that over 200 women were trafficked into Ireland.\n\nSWAI (Sex Workers Alliance Ireland), is an advocacy group for sex workers in Ireland, was formed in 2009 by an alliance of individuals and groups to promote the social inclusion, health, safety, civil rights, and the right to self-determination of sex workers. SWAI actively advocates for the decriminalisation of sex work in Ireland and believes sex workers in Ireland should be free to work in safety without fear, judgment or stigma.\n\nUgly Mugs Ireland is a safety scheme for sex workers established in 2009. It brings sex workers together to share information with each other about potential dangers.\n\nRuhama (Hebrew: Renewed life), established in 1989, is a Dublin-based NGO operated by the Catholic Sisters of Our Lady of Charity order which works on a national level with women affected by prostitution and other forms of commercial sexual exploitation. The organisation regards prostitution as violence against women and violations of women's human rights. Ruhama sees prostitution and the social and cultural attitudes which sustain it as being deeply rooted in gender inequality and social marginalisation. Ruhama offers a range of services to support women in and exiting prostitution. Ruhama also seeks to highlight sex trafficking.\n\nA campaign set up in 2011 to end prostitution and sex trafficking in Ireland called \"Turn Off the Red Light\" is run by an alliance of more than 66 community, union and religious groups, including the Irish Nurses and Midwives Organisation, and the Irish Medical Organisation. Core members are the Immigrant Council, Ruhama and the National Women's Council.\n\nIn response, a counter-campaign called \"Turn Off the Blue Light\" was created by sex workers and supporters in favour of decriminalisation to rebut what they see as misleading information and to present a positive image of sex workers in Ireland. A chief complaint it has of the \"Turn Off The Red Light\" campaign is that it conflates legal and consensual sex work with illegal human trafficking.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44549938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44549938", "title": "Red Wa", "text": "Red Wa\n\nThe Red Wa is the most powerful organized crime gang in Thailand. The Red Wa come from Burma and they are associated with the United Wa State Army. They are composed of people from the Va ethnic group and they work together with Chinese organized criminals in the drug trade. The Red Wa control the methamphetamine trade in Thailand and neighboring countries and are also known for being involved in the trafficking and sale of other drugs, mainly heroin. Although they primarily focus on drug trafficking, groups associated with the United Wa State Army have also been involved in other crimes in order to protect their territory. \n"}
{"id": "11414930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11414930", "title": "Repino, Saint Petersburg", "text": "Repino, Saint Petersburg\n\nRepino () is an area of Saint Petersburg, Russia, and a station of the Saint Petersburg-Vyborg railroad. It was known by its Finnish name Kuokkala until 1948, when it was renamed after its most famous inhabitant, the painter Ilya Repin. It is northwest of St. Petersburg on the Karelian Isthmus and Gulf of Finland. The population was 2,478 at the 2010 Census.\n\nThe first mention of Kuokkala is in a peace treaty between the Republic of Novgorod and Sweden in 1323. The territory where the village is located was fought over between the Muscovites and Swedes in the 16th and 17th centuries and came under Russian control after the Great Northern War in early 18th Century. The village was inhabited by fishermen of Finnish and Russian ethnicities. The area developed further after 1870 when the railway linking St Petersburg and Helsinki passed through the town. Wealthier residents of St Peterburg built holiday villas in the area and a new railway station was built in 1889. Kuokkala was located in the Grand Duchy of Finland, a self-governing part of the Russian Empire, which had a more liberal environment, attracting artists and intellectuals including the artist Ilya Repin. Lenin spent some time in Kuokkala during 1905 to 1907, staying at the Vasa Villa.\n\nShortly after the October Revolution in 1917, Finland declared its independence from the Soviet Union and Kuokkala became part of the new independent nation while retaining a significant ethnic Russian population. There was a skirmish between White and Red Finns at Kuokkala during the Finnish Civil War on 28 April 1918. Kuokkala was taken over by the Soviets when the Karelian Isthmus was ceded by Finland to the Soviet Union after the Winter War and the Continuation War (1939–1944). Kuokkala became a part of the Leningrad Oblast in 1948 and was renamed Repino in memory of the painter Ilya Repin.. After the war, the area was developed as a tourist area with several hotels and sanatoriums and was transferred to the jurisdiction of the city of St Petersburg as part of the Kurortny District\n\nIn 1899, Repin bought an estate here and called it \"Penaty\" (, meaning Penates, Roman household deities). He designed his own house, and after it had been built several years later, Repin moved to Kuokkala. He would live there until his death in 1930. The house is surrounded by a large park.\n\nThe estate is part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site \"Saint Petersburg and Related Groups of Monuments\". The estate has been a museum since 1940.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10109099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10109099", "title": "Rusyns of Romania", "text": "Rusyns of Romania\n\nThe Rusyns (\"Rusíni\" in Rusyn, \"Ruteni\" in Romanian) are an ethnic minority in Romania.\n\nWhile only 262 people officially identified themselves as \"Rusyns\" in the 2002 Romanian census, 3,890 people identified as Hutsuls (; Rusyn \"Hutsuly\") – a minority whose members often identify or are regarded as a subgroup of the Rusyns.\n\nAnother 61,091 Romanian citizens identified as Ukrainian (). As the archaic exonym Ruthenians was previously applied to both Rusyns and Ukrainians, some Ukrainian-Romanians may also regard themselves as Rusyns (without declaring themselves to, or being identified by, census collectors). Ukrainian-Romanians live primarily in northwestern Romania; the largest populations are found in Satu Mare and Maramureş counties.\n\nAs an officially recognised ethnic minority, Rusyns have a reserved seat in the Romanian Chamber of Deputies, which is currently held by a party called the Cultural Union of Ruthenians of Romania.\n"}
{"id": "35191193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35191193", "title": "The Dancing Boys of Afghanistan", "text": "The Dancing Boys of Afghanistan\n\nThe Dancing Boys of Afghanistan is a 2010 documentary film produced by Clover Films and directed by Afghan journalist Najibullah Quraishi about the practice of \"bacha bazi\" in Afghanistan. The 52-minute documentary premiered in the UK at the Royal Society of Arts on March 29, 2010 and aired on \"PBS Frontline\" in the United States on April 20.\n\n\"Bacha bazi\", also known as \"bacchá\" (from the Persian \"bacheh\" بچه‌), literally \"playing with boys\" in Persian, Pashto and Hindi-Urdu), is a form of sexual slavery and child prostitution in which prepubescent and adolescent boys are sold to wealthy or powerful men for entertainment and sexual activities. This business thrives in Afghanistan, where many men keep dancing boys as status symbols. The practice is illegal under Afghan law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41439288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41439288", "title": "The Pacific Sociological Association Distinguished Scholarship Award", "text": "The Pacific Sociological Association Distinguished Scholarship Award\n\nThe Distinguished Scholarship Award is given by the Pacific Sociological Association (PSA) to sociologists based in the Pacific region of North America, in recognition of major scholarly contributions. To be eligible for the award, a sociologist's contribution must be embodied in a recently published book or through a series of articles with a common theme. \n\nThe Distinguished Scholarship Award was created by the PSA in 1984. The award was given biennially until 1990, when it became an annually granted award.\n"}
{"id": "27976965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27976965", "title": "Western Krahn language", "text": "Western Krahn language\n\nWestern Krahn is the principal language spoken by the Krahn people of Liberia and Ivory Coast. It is part of a series a dialects of the Wee (Guere) dialect continuum spoken by the Krahn and Guere peoples.\n\n"}
{"id": "16084373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16084373", "title": "Women in Bangladesh", "text": "Women in Bangladesh\n\nThe status of women in Bangladesh has been subject to many important changes over the past few centuries. The Bangladeshi women have made significant progress since the country gained its independence in 1971. The past four decades have seen increased political empowerment for women, better job prospects, increased opportunities of education and the adoption of new laws to protect their rights though Bangladesh's policies regarding women's rights is influenced by patriarchal values. , the Prime Minister of Bangladesh, the Speaker of Parliament, the Leader of the Opposition were women. Bangladesh has also not elected a male as Prime Minister since 1988.\n\nAvailable data on health, nutrition, education, and economic performance indicated that in the 1980s the status of women in Bangladesh remained considerably inferior to that of men. Women, in custom and practice, remained subordinate to men in almost all aspects of their lives; greater autonomy was the privilege of the rich or the necessity of the very poor.\n\nMost women's lives remained centred on their traditional roles, and they had limited access to markets, productive services, education, health care, and local government. This lack of opportunities contributed to high fertility patterns, which diminished family well-being, contributed to the malnourishment and generally poor health of children, and frustrated educational and other national development goals. In fact, acute poverty at the margin appeared to be hitting hardest at women. As long as women's access to health care, education, and training remained limited, prospects for improved productivity among the female population remained poor.\n\nAbout 82 percent of women lived in rural areas in the late 1980s. The majority of rural women, perhaps 70 percent, were in small cultivator, tenant, and landless households; many worked as labourers part-time or seasonally, usually in post-harvest activities, and received payment in kind or in meager cash wages. Another 20 percent, mostly in poor landless households, depended on casual labour, gleaning, begging, and other irregular sources of income; typically, their income was essential to household survival. The remaining 10 percent of women were in households mainly in the professional, trading, or large-scale landowning categories, and they usually did not work outside the home.\n\nThe economic contribution of women was substantial but largely unacknowledged. Women in rural areas were responsible for most of the post-harvest work, which was done in the chula, and for keeping livestock, poultry, and small gardens. Women in cities relied on domestic and traditional jobs, but in the 1980s they increasingly worked in manufacturing jobs, especially in the readymade garment industry. Those with more education worked in government, health care, and teaching, but their numbers remained very small. Continuing high rates of population growth and the declining availability of work based in the chula meant that more women sought employment outside the home. Accordingly, the female labour force participation rate doubled between 1974 and 1984, when it reached nearly 8 percent. Female wage rates in the 1980s were low, typically ranging between 20 and 30 percent of male wage rates.\n\nThe official religion of Bangladesh is Islam with over 90% of the population being Muslim.\n\nThe literacy rate in Bangladesh is lower for females (55.1%) compared to males (62.5%) – 2012 estimates for population aged 15 and over.\n\nDuring the past decades, Bangladesh has improved its education policies; and the access of girls to education has increased. In the 1990s, girls' enrolment in primary school has increased rapidly. Although there is now gender parity in enrolments at the primary and lower secondary school level, the percentage of girls drops in the later secondary school years.\n\nWomen in Bangladesh are engaged in many work activities, from domestic work inside the home, to outside paid work. Women's work is often undervalued and under-reported.\n\nWomen's inheritance rights are poor: discriminatory laws and patriarchal social norms make it difficult for many women to have access to land. Most women inherit according to the local interpretations of Sharia Law.\n\nBengali settlers and soldiers in the Chittagong Hill Tracts have raped native Jumma (Chakma) women \"with impunity\" with the Bangladeshi security forces doing little to protect the Jummas and instead assisting the rapists and settlers.\n\nThe indigenous Buddhist and Hindu Jummas of Sino-Tibetan background have been targeted by the Bangladeshi government with massive amounts of violence and genocidal policies as ethnic Bengali settlers swarmed into Jumma lands, seized control and massacred them with the Bangladeshi military engaging in mass rape of women, massacres of entire villages and attacks on Hindu and Buddhist religious sites with deliberate targeting of monks and nuns.\n\nIn Bangladesh's rural areas rape has been committed by 1/8th of the men.\n\nBangladesh has one of the highest rates of child marriage in the world. The practice of dowry, although illegal, contributes to this phenomenon. 29% of girls get married before age 15 and 65% before the age of 18. Government action has had little effect, and has been contradictory: although the government has pledged to end child marriage by 2041, the Prime Minister in 2015 attempted to lower the age of marriage for girls from 18 to 16. An exception to the law was instituted so that marriage at 16 is permitted with parental consent.\n\nIn 2010, Bangladesh enacted the \"Domestic Violence (Prevention and Protection) Act, 2010\". Domestic violence (DV) is accepted by a significant percentage of the population: in the 2011 DHS survey, 32.5% of women said that a husband is justified in hitting or beating his wife for specific reasons (the most common reason given was if the wife \"argues with him\" – at 22.4%). In recent years violence towards women, committed by men, has decreased significantly and is considerably low compared to south Asian countries like Sri Lanka, Nepal, and India.\nViolence towards women is a crime. Awareness needs to be raised to uphold women's human rights.\n\nDowry violence is a problem in Bangladesh. The country has taken action against the practice of dowry through laws such as \"Dowry Prohibition Act, 1980\"; \"Dowry Prohibition (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982\"; and \"Dowry Prohibition (Amendment) Ordinance, 1986\". However, abuses regarding dowry continue, with the legal enforcement against dowry being weak.\n\n\"Eve-teasing\" is a euphemism used throughout South Asia, in countries such as Pakistan, India and Bangladesh, for public sexual harassment or molestation (often known as \"street harassment\") of women by men, where Eve alludes to the very first woman, according to the Biblical creation story. Sexual harassment affects many women in Bangladesh, especially teenage girls, where the girls are intimidated in the streets, are shouted obscenities at, laughed at, or grabbed by their clothes. As Bangladeshi society is conservative, girls and women show negative attitudes towards sexuality.\n\nBangladeshi women and girls don't get the rights of freedom of movement everywhere as the men have, the society is based on patriarchal values and socially conservative policies towards women and girl's freedom.\n\nThe maternal mortality rate in Bangladesh is 240 deaths/100,000 live births (as of 2010). Sexually transmitted infections are relatively common, although the rate of HIV/AIDS is low. A 2014 study found that Bangladeshi women' knowledge about different diseases is very poor. Bangladesh has recently expanded training programs of midwives to improve reproductive health and outcomes.\n\nAlready in the 1990s, family planning was recognised as very important in Bangladesh.\nThe total fertility rate (TFR) is 2.45 children born/woman (estimates as of 2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "39627959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39627959", "title": "Women in Brunei", "text": "Women in Brunei\n\nWomen in Brunei are women living in Brunei Darussalam. In their version of Islamic society, Bruneian women are regarded as persons of \"very high status\".\n\nThe U.S. Department of State has stated that discrimination against women is a problem in Brunei.\n\nAbortion in Brunei is largely illegal, with an exception if a woman's life is danger. Previously, the penalty for receiving an abortion was up to seven years in prison, with 10-15 years for the person performing the abortion. In 2014, Brunei's government implemented Sharia criminal law in a series of phases which was set to increase the punishment for abortion to execution by stoning. This part of the law was to come into effect in 2016, although it's now expected to come into effect in 2018. In 2016, a 22 year old women was sentenced to seven years in prison for obtaining an abortion using the abortion pill.\n\nThe Muslim women of Brunei wear traditional head cover known as the \"tudong\", also spelled as \"tudung\".\n\nIn recent years, Bruneian women have started to assume \"positions of responsibility\" in the Government of Brunei. They are able to take jobs in the armed forces of Brunei; however they are not allowed to serve while in combat situations.\n"}
{"id": "16084558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16084558", "title": "Women in South Korea", "text": "Women in South Korea\n\nWomen in South Korea have experienced significant improvements for social changes in recent years, compared to previous times, when Confucianism was deeply imbued in the culture. In today's society, the economy of South Korea has tremendously improved due to urbanisation, industrialisation, military authoritarianism, democratic reform, and social liberalisation since the late 1960s. Thus, gender roles and gender identities eventually have been modified as a result to changing modernity. More than the half of Korean women are employed and furthermore, more than 25% of married women are employed as full-time workers. In politics, although there are not as many female politicians as male politicians, the female politicians have recently begun to participate more actively than in the past. For instance, in National Assembly, women occupy 20 of the 299 seats. The Prime Minister and leaders of parties are all females.\n\nThe status of women vary depending on their social class and financial independence. In metropolitan areas, women have more access to education, which means they are less confined to the home as housewives. Most of the employed women in urban areas work in tertiary industries such as the service sector. Therefore, as working-class women, they have more power in making decisions within their households and are more financially independent. On the other hand, in rural areas, most of women work in primary industry such as the agriculture sector. In fact, they do not have the variety of educational and employment opportunities.\n\nThe status of women has elevated to the point where it could be seen as equal to men's social standing in terms of education, health, and legal rights. However, there are still plenty of political and economical prejudices against women. Moreover, Korean women are still consistently facing gender stereotypes regarding rigid gender roles. These stereotypes include women staying at home as housewives, being subordinate to men, having less power and voice in political and economic participation and movements, and many more. \n\nWomen in South Korea are not restricted to dressing in a certain way, they follow a Western style of dress.\n\nIn traditional Korean society, women were taught to be subordinated without formal advanced education or little education. Their roles were limited to be confined to the home as housewives and good mothers. Their duties were to maintain harmony in the household by avoiding any unnecessary conflicts. In addition, a married couple were to live in her husband's household by taking care of her husband's whole family including parents-in law. Women were expected to produce sons and they were blamed if children were girls due to a notion of preferring a son to a daughter. Women did not have the voice nor participate in society as men did, instead they were expected to support their husbands. \n\nThe improvement of women status was first found during the late 19th century to the early 20th century. A large number of Western Christian missionaries came to South Korea in order to institute modern schools. Among these modern schools, some of them established the schools with a goal to educate women in different fields including literatures, arts, religious works and many more. In fact, before the teachings of Western Christian missionaries, most of the women did not have any access to education. As a result, women were able to participate in political movement because women who got the education also engaged in enlightening other women. During the era under the colonial administration of imperial Japan, Korea women (almost Up to 200,000) were sent to work as comfort women in Japan's military brothels. Until the end of World War II, Korea was under Japanese occupation. Women participated in the independence movement against the Japanese occupation during Japanese colony during 1910-1945, therefore, the role of women has shifted slightly by having education and participating in political movements. \n\nAfter becoming independent from Japan, the Republic of Korea was established as a liberal democracy. Women who pursued education, work, and public life could now achieve constitutional rights for equal opportunities. For example, several schools were founded for the education of women. Women educated from these schools began to engage in the arts, teaching, economic activities, and engaging other women in discussion of gender equality. The percentage of women has steadily increased in professional fields which has resulted in significant contributions to society, especially in terms of increasing GDP. As they took a larger role in economic activities, the educational level of women also increased, providing additional opportunities for professionalization. Today, Korean women receive high levels of education and actively participate in a wide variety of fields, including education, medicine, engineering, scholarship, the arts, law, literature, and sports. Women's participation in social and economic culture is expected to continue to grow and diversify after the election of South Korea's first female president, Park Geun-Hye. This is partially due to Park Geun-Hye's promise to promote a “women’s revolution” and provide support for child care, increased opportunities for promotion, and salary equality. Furthermore, Park Geun-Hye also promised to make other advances for women, including: increase the representation of women, to facilitate women’s employment and provide support for female workers, to increase educational opportunities for women to be competitive in the labor market, to provide social welfare policies for women, to promote women’s involvement in various social activities. However, not all of these policies have manifested.\n\nNowadays, women in South Korea are guaranteed for all the legal rights that men have. In 1948, women gained their legal rights to vote, drive, and own and inherit properties and assets. For instance, Korean females have access to all medical and healthcare services. Every Korean citizens are guaranteed for national health insurance under the National Health Insurance Act. South Korea has worked on its way to implement gender equality by revising and changing any discriminative contents in its existing legislative laws since the 1980s. In fact, South Korea's constitution has achieved its goal of ensuring diverse gender equality legislation within a short period of time. \n\nImplementation of laws to prohibit gender inequalities and prejudice have increased the number of women in workforce. Nevertheless, the women status in South Korea illustrates the fact that Korea still has a lot of room to be improved for gender equality. Therefore, the legislations and public rules are critical and significant roles to influence Korean cities to elevate the social structure substantially. \n\nAs it was shown above, in traditional Korean society, females could not have access to formal education that the literacy rate was even low. The transition came in the late 19th century to the early 20th century when the Western Christian missionaries came to South Korea by establishing modern schools for girls. In 1886, Methodist missionaries found a primary school. In 1945, this primary school gained its status as an university, which is now called Ewha Womans University. Ewha Womans University is still known as the most prestigious women's university in South Korea. There were numerous women's schools established respectively. In the 1890s, Chongsin Girls' School and Paehwa Girls' School were established in Seoul, which is the capital city of Korea. There were about ten women institutions of higher education such as junior colleges, colleges, and university by 1987 in South Korea. In fact, the women enrolment for higher education was at 28%. In 1987, there were about 262,500 female students in higher education. Although more females had access to higher education compared to the past, there were only 16% of university and college women teachers in 1987. \n\nThe growing number of women receiving a college education has meant that their sex role differs from that of their mothers and grandmothers. Many college-educated women plan independent careers and challenge the right of parents to choose a marriage partner. The often fierce battles between university students and police during the late 1980s included female participants. A correspondent for the Far Eastern Economic Review quoted a male student leader as saying that \"short girls make great demonstrators, as they're very tough and very hard to catch.\" Whether politically active South Korean university women will follow their Japanese counterparts, who demonstrated during the 1960s and 1970s, into a world of child-raising and placid consumerism remains to be seen. The number of employed married women, however, increased by approximately 12.6 percent annually in the years since 1977.\n\nIn 1983 more women—51.8%—were employed in rural areas than in urban areas—37.9 percent. Most of the women working in rural areas were over the age of thirty, as young females (and males) tended to move to, and seek employment in, cities and industrial areas.\n\nOfficial South Korean statistics indicated that 43.6% of women were in the work force by 1988. Prospects for lower class women, however, were frequently grim. In some cases, they were obliged to become part of the \"entertainment industry\" in order to survive economically. According to one estimate, brothels, bars, massage parlors, discos, and what are known as \"Taiwan style\" barbershops (that is, those often employing a greater number of masseuses than barbers) employed as many as 1 million women, though not all were prostitutes. This underworld of abuse and exploitation had begun to be criticized and exposed by women's activists.\n\nIn today's society, the Constitution ensures the equal access to education for women and also eliminate any discrimination of receiving education based on gender. South Korea. In 1970, the literacy rate was 87.6%. In addition, according to 2002 estimates, the literacy rate increased up to 97.9%; 96.6% of females and 99.2% of males are literate. According to 2008 estimates, there is approximately a 99% enrolment rate for both elementary school and middle school. The enrolment rate for high school is at approximately 96.6%. This means that almost 99% of the current South Korean females have approach to primary and secondary education. \n\nDuring the Goryeo and early Joseon Dynasty, it was customary for married couples to live in the wife's parents' household. This arrangement suggests that the status of women was higher than it was during the later period of the Joseon Dynasty. Neo-Confucian orthodoxy dictated that the woman, separated from her parents, had a primary duty of providing a male heir for her husband's family. According to this custom, once married, a woman had to leave her parents' household and then become a part of her husband's household. The relationship between wife and husband was often, if not usually, distant, aptly described by the Korean proverb: \"By day, like seeing a stranger; by night, like seeing a lover.\" Joseon Dynasty law prohibited widows from remarrying, though a similar prohibition was not extended to widowers. Further, the sons and grandsons of widows who defied the ban, like children of secondary wives, were not allowed to take the civil service examinations and become scholar-officials.\n\nThe duty of a woman to her husband, or rather to her husband's family, was absolute and unquestionable. In the traditional society, only men could obtain a divorce. A husband could divorce his spouse if she were barren—barrenness being defined simply as the inability to bear sons. Even if a husband did not divorce his wife, he had the right to take a second wife, although the preferred solution for a man without a son during the Joseon Dynasty was to adopt a son of one of his brothers, if available. The incompatibility of a wife and her in-laws was another reason for divorce.\n\nIn contemporary society, both men and women have the right to obtain a divorce. Social and economic discrimination, however, make the lot of divorced women more difficult. The husband may still demand custody of the children, although a revision of the Family Law in 1977 made it more difficult for him to coerce or to deceive his wife into agreeing to an unfair settlement. The rate of divorce in South Korea is increasing rapidly. In 1975 the number of divorces was 17,000. In the mid-1980s, the annual number of divorces was between 23,000 and 26,000, and in 1987 there were 45,000 divorces.\n\nThe tradition of total female submission persisted in Korean villages until relatively recent times. One Korean scholar who came from the conservative Chungcheong region recalled that when a high school friend died of sickness during the 1940s, his young bride committed suicide. Her act was commemorated in her own and the surrounding communities as an outstanding example of devotion to duty.\n\nTraditionally, men and women were strictly segregated, both inside and outside the house. Yangban women spent most of their lives in seclusion in the women's chamber. It is said that the traditional pastime of nolttwigi, a game of jumping up and down on a seesaw-like contraption, originated among bored women who wanted to peek over the high walls of their family compounds to see what the outside world was like. Economic necessity gave women of the lower classes some freedom as they participated in farm work and sometimes earned supplemental income through making and selling things.\n\nAs of February 2015, adultery is no longer illegal in South Korea.\n\nAccording to \"The Economist\"'s 2013 \"Glass-ceiling index\" of five indicators of friendliness towards working women, South Korea ranks the lowest of all OECD countries because of its lack of women in senior jobs. Historically, however, a small minority of women played an active role in society and even wielded political influence. These people included female shamans (mudang), who were called upon to cure illnesses, tell fortunes, or in other ways enlist the help of spirits in realizing the wishes of their clients. Despite its sponsorship of neo-Confucianism, the Choson Dynasty had an office of shamanism, and female shamans often were quite influential in the royal palace. The female physicians who treated female patients (because male physicians were forbidden to examine them) constituted another important group of women. Sometimes they acted as spies or policewomen because they could get into the female quarters of a house. Still another group of women were the kisaeng. Some kisaeng, or entertainers, were merely prostitutes; but others, were talented musicians, dancers, painters, and poets who interacted with their male patrons. The kisaeng tradition perpetuated one of the more dubious legacies of the Joseon past: an extreme double standard concerning the sexual behavior of married men and women that still persists. In the cities, however, many middle class women have begun to break with these traditions.\n\nAn interesting regional variation on traditional female roles continued in the late 1980s. In the coastal villages of Cheju Island, women divers swam in search of seaweed, oysters, and other marine products and were economically self-sufficient. Often they provided the main economic support for the family while the husband did subsidiary work — took care of the children and did household chores — in sharp contrast to the Confucian norm. The number of women divers was dwindling, however, and men were increasingly performing jobs in service industries. Ancestor worship was rarely practiced while female-centered shamanistic rites were widespread.\n\nThe factories of South Korea employ hundreds of thousands of young women on shop floors and assembly lines making, among other things, textiles and clothes, shoes, and electronic components. South Korea's economic success was bought in large measure with the sweat of these generally overworked and poorly paid female laborers. In the offices of banks and other service enterprises, young women working as clerks and secretaries are indispensable. Unlike their sisters on Cheju Island, however, the majority of these women work only until marriage.\n\nThere has been a tangible increase in the number of women joining the workforce. In 2014, the number of Korean women in the workforce was estimated to be 57%, whereas in 1995 the number 47.6%. The statistical increase in the quantity of employed women has not correlated with the equality of wage, as the gender wage gap reported in 2013 was 36.3%, the worst of all OECD nations present in the data.\n\nAlthough increasing numbers of women work outside the home, the dominant conception, particularly for the college-educated middle class, is that the husband is the \"outside person,\" the one whose employment provides the main source of economic support; the wife is the \"inside person,\" whose chief responsibility is maintenance of the household. While it is viewed as a societal norm that women be able to contribute to the finance of the household, the majority of the onus is placed upon men, Women tend to leave the labor force when they get married. Many women manage the family finances, and a large number join \"kye\", informal private short-term credit associations that give them access to funds that might not be obtainable from a conventional bank. Probably the most important responsibility of married women is the management of their children's education.\n\nWomen also claim much of the responsibilities of being a caretaker, as half of the women that voluntarily leave their mid-career or senior level jobs do so due to family commitments The college educated women in Korea tend to invest more time and capital to raising their children than individuals without a degree. but due to the declining population in Korea There has been a conscious effort to address these issues by the South Korean government, as \"the government gives loans or subsidies to businesses to build child care facilities, and more than half of all businesses now provide these. It also pays subsidies to businesses that offer more than 30 days of child care leave a year, allow women to work less than full time, and re-employ women returning from maternity leave.\"\n\nDespite these efforts, the number of women who regularly use these support systems compose a minority of the women who find themselves in this position. A major factor that influences these decisions is the declining birth rate in Korea, as Korea's birthrate of 1.19 per family put a greater emphasis upon the quality of education and care upon the one, or two children that the family will take care of.\n\nThe Glass Ceiling for women have been tested in contemporary times. In 2012, Samsung promoted three women into executive roles which was unusual for a company of its size. Samsung has also stated that it aims to have at least 10% of its executive positions to be held by women.\n\nIn 2013 Kwon Seon-joo became South Korea's first female bank CEO, as the CEO of state-owned Industrial Bank of Korea.\n\nProstitution in South Korea is illegal, but according to one estimate, brothels, bars, massage parlors, discos, and what are known as \"Taiwan style\" barbershops (that is, those often employing a greater number of masseuses than barbers) employed as many as 1 million women, though not all were prostitutes. This underworld of abuse and exploitation has begun to be criticized and exposed by women's activists.\n\nIn 2003, after recovering from a financial meltdown, the unemployment rate for women were 12% in the 15-29 age group. In 2006, women in the age group of 20-29 constituted 40% of the total unemployed population, the figure being roughly around 340,000. The high levels of unemployment for women has attributed to the growth of the Korean sex trade. There are an estimated 500,000-1,000,000 women who partake in the sex trade, that being approximately one in every twenty five women. The prominence of the sex trade have given birth to the \"Bacchus Ladies\", grandmothers who trade sex and other favours on top of the energy drink Bacchus, of which their name was coined after.\n\nSouth Korean law first acknowledged women as rapists in June 2013; in 2015, the first woman was charged with rape in South Korea. The woman, only identified with her surname Jeon, was also the first woman to be arrested for sexually abusing a man.\n\n\n (Data from 1990.)\n"}
{"id": "16578126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16578126", "title": "Women in Uganda", "text": "Women in Uganda\n\nSimilarly to the majority of countries around the world, the traditional gender roles of women in Uganda are often considered subordinate to those of men. However, women in \nUganda have substantial economic and social responsibilities throughout Uganda's many traditional societies. Ugandan women come from a range of economic and educational backgrounds. Despite economic and social change throughout the country, domestic violence and sexual assault remain prevalent issues in Uganda. These issues plague women all around the world and do not discriminate on the basis of race or class. However, poverty is correlated with an influx of domestic violence. Government reports suggest rising levels of domestic violence toward women that are directly attributable to poverty.\n\nToday gender roles in Uganda are influenced by tradition as well as constantly changing social dynamics. Traditional roles of women in Uganda are similar to traditional roles of women around the world. These roles are largely domestic including housekeeping, child rearing, fetching water, cooking and tending to community needs.\n\nIn the 1980s, some women in rural areas of Buganda were expected to kneel when speaking to a man. At the same time, however, women shouldered the primary responsibilities for childcare and subsistence cultivation, and in the twentieth century, women had made substantial contributions to cash-crop agriculture.\n\nWhile it has traditionally been the role of men to control familial financial matters however, women provide substantial economic contributions to their families and to the larger Ugandan economy. Many women report they continue to struggle to find employment opportunities. Some women leave their communities to find greater employment opportunities. Traditional gender roles that have been largely revitalized by US evangelical influence, assert the role of women as based in domestic responsibilities. Therefore, female employment continues to be stigmatized within Ugandan culture. However, there have been greater initiatives to generate women's employment around the country.\n\nIn many respects, Ugandan women hold and have held rights that exceeded those of women in Western societies. Many Ugandans recognize women as important religious and community leaders. Women have held rights to own land, influence crucial political decisions made by men, and cultivate crops for their own profit. When cash-crop agriculture became lucrative, as in southeastern Uganda in the 1920s, men often claimed rights to land owned by their female relatives, and their claims were supported by local councils and protectorate courts.\n\nPolygynous marriage practices, which permit a man to marry more than one woman, have reinforced some aspects of male dominance. However, they also have given women an arena for cooperating to oppose male dominance.\n\nIn Uganda, a man sometimes grants \"male status\" to his senior wife, allowing her to behave as an equal toward men and as a superior toward his other wives. In the twentieth century, polygynous marriages represented social bonds that were not legally recognized as marriage, leaving women without legal rights to inheritance or maintenance in the event of divorce or widowhood.\n\nAs with many other countries, Uganda faces multiple obstacles in its movement toward gender equality. After gender equality and women empowerment was listed as one of the UN Millennium Development Goals of 2000, the Ugandan Justice, Law and Order Sector (JLOS) responded in their \"Gender and Access to Justice (2001)\" annual report addressing various obstacles in accessing justice. In 2012, the JLOS reported that because of patriarchy and the lack of gender equality, the majority of the poor are women; many of which are ignorant of or deprived of certain rights like owning land. Gender-based violence has been reported as another issue. According to authorities within the Ugandan Police Force, many Ugandans accept the battering of women as a long-standing social norm. In 2001, a survey revealed that 90% of women reported that “beating a wife or female partner was justifiable in some circumstances.” A 2018 Reuters article highlighted the concern over gender based violence in covering a story involving 20 corpses of young women along the roadsides south of the Kampala. In addition to the lack of justice and protection against violence, there is a significant gender gap with education. \n\nAccording to the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap 2017 Report, Uganda is ranked 45 out of 144 countries on the basis of its four key indicators: Economic Participation and Opportunity, Educational Attainment, Health and Survival, and Political Empowerment. Under the country score card section of this report, it revealed that Uganda ranked #1 in primary education enrollment and yet only #127 in secondary education. This means that for the majority of girls in Uganda, their schooling is halted before or soon after becoming a teenager. The cultural practice of parents relying heavier on girls more than boys for household labor needs may be a main cause for this disparity in education. A 2013 study done by Martina Björkman-Nyqvist indicated a sharp drop in school enrollment for females when their households faced financial setbacks from a lack of rain/crop production or other economic shortfalls. And in the districts where schooling was free, it showed a significant drop in the marks earned by female students during the times of economic hardship. Meanwhile, the study showed that boys remained unscathed in either scenario. Whether it is economic shocks, early unwanted pregnancies or fleeing family violence, many girls have to stop their education prematurely.  As a result, these young women face reduced opportunities for work and a significant amount of them are driven into unhealthy sexual relationships or find themselves doing sex work in Kampala to survive and support their families.\n\nActions taken to bridge these gender gaps and bring justice have served as a catalyst for development, empowering Ugandan woman to lay hold of various rights, positions and opportunities. In Kasese District, Western Uganda, the Gender Action Learning System (GALS) provides training in the production and trade of the nation’s staples: coffee, maize and fruit. Through initiatives like this, women are positioned to access needed healthcare and education, thus helping them escape the poverty trap. Research findings also indicate a decline in gender-based violence as women become key contributors in bolstering local economies. An IMF 2016 survey found its gender budgeting very successful in Sub-Sahara countries like Uganda and Rwanda. When targeted funds provide clean water and electricity is accessible, the reduction of daily household chores makes it more feasible to earn the monies needed for a girl’s education. Through education and couple counseling programs within The AIDS Support Organization (TASO), women learn assertiveness skills that help them better navigate relational choices and safe sex practices. Clubs such as the Empowerment of Livelihood and Adolescents (ELA) have the goal of helping girls evade teen pregnancy and underage marriage.\n\nThe changing of age old social norms have been met with some resistance and negative repercussion. After public campaigns promoting women's rights, Uganda has been one of the countries noted by the World Health Organization to experience backlash resulting in violence. In a four-year study in Rakai, Uganda noted widespread uneasiness among both women and men as equality initiatives challenged the concept of a women’s place in the home and society in general. With women gaining more financial autonomy and power in the home, many reported a concern that this challenge to traditional gender roles may cause men to feel threatened and respond with domestic violence. The Rakai study stressed the importance of have community initiatives in place that can broaden cultural understandings in recognizing that there are many benefits as women empowerment and equality is embraced.\n\nWomen began to organize to exercise their political power before independence. In 1960 the Uganda Council of Women passed a resolution urging that laws regarding marriage, divorce, and inheritance should be recorded in written from and publicized nationwide—a first step toward codifying customary and modern practices. During the first decade of independence, this council also pressed for legal reforms that would grant all women the right to own property and retain custody of their children if their marriages ended.\n\nDuring the 1970s and early 1980s, the violence that swept Uganda inflicted a particularly heavy toll on women. Economic hardships were felt first in the home, where women and children lacked economic choices available to most men. Women's work became more time-consuming than it had been; the erosion of public services and infrastructure reduced access to schools, hospitals, and markets. Even traveling to nearby towns was often impossible. Some Ugandan women believed that the war years strengthened their independence, however, as the disruption of normal family life opened new avenues for acquiring economic independence, and government reports suggested that the number of women employed in commerce increased in the late 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nThe Museveni government of the late 1980s pledged to eliminate discrimination against women in official policy and practice. Women are active in the National Resistance Army (NRA), and Museveni appointed a woman, Joan Kakwenzire, to a six-member commission to document abuses by the military. The government also has decreed that one woman would represent each district on the National Resistance Council. In addition, the government-operated Uganda Commercial Bank has launched a rural credit plan to make farm loans more easily available to women.\n\nMuseveni appointed Joyce Mpanga minister for women and development in 1987, and she proclaimed the government's intention to raise women's wages, increase women's credit and employment opportunities, and improve the lives of women in general. In 1989 there were two women serving as ministers and three serving as deputy ministers in the NRM cabinet. Women civil servants and professionals also formed an organization, Action for Development, to assist women in war-torn areas, especially the devastated Luwero region in central Uganda.\n\nThe Uganda Association of Women Lawyers, which was founded in 1976, established a legal-aid clinic in early 1988 to defend women who faced the loss of property or children because of divorce, separation, or widowhood. The association also sought to expand educational opportunities for women, increase childsupport payments (equivalent to US$0.50 per month in 1989) in case of divorce, establish common legal grounds for divorce for both men and women, establish common criminal codes for men and women, assist women and children who were victims of AIDS, and implement nationwide education programs to inform women of their legal rights.\n\n"}
