{"id": "58465301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58465301", "title": "Ambivali Caves", "text": "Ambivali Caves\n\nThe Ambivali Caves, or Ambivali Leni are a group of Buddhist caves, located near Neral, Raigad district, Maharashtra, 8km southeast of Kalyan. The caves are cut in the low hill located on the concave portion of a river. They consist in 12 viharas celles with verandah and several water cisterns. There is one inscription in Brahmi script on a verandah pillar.\n"}
{"id": "1266606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1266606", "title": "Babak Khorramdin", "text": "Babak Khorramdin\n\nBābak Khorramdin (Formally known as \"Pāpak\" meaning \"Young Father\") (, alternative spelling: \"Pāpak Khorramdin\"; 795, according to some other sources 798— January 838) was one of the main Persian revolutionary leaders of the Iranian Khorram-Dinān (\"Those of the joyous religion\"), which was a local freedom movement fighting the Abbasid Caliphate. Khorramdin appears to be a compound analogous to \"dorustdin\" \"orthodoxy\" and \"Behdin\" \"Good Religion\" (Zoroastrianism), and are considered an offshoot of neo-Mazdakism. Babak's Iranianizing rebellion, from its base in Azerbaijan in northwestern Iran, called for a return of the political glories of the Iranian past. The Khorramdin rebellion of Babak spread to the Western and Central parts of Iran and lasted more than twenty years before it was defeated when Babak was betrayed. Babak's uprising showed the continuing strength in Azerbaijan of ancestral Iranian local feelings.\n\nBabak (Persian: بابک) is a given name for Iranian males It is Arabicized for Papak (Persian: پاپک) which means \"young father\" in Middle Persian.\n\nBābak was born into a Persian family in Azerbaijan (northwestern Iran) close to the city of Artawila (modern Ardabil). According to Wāqid ibn 'Amr Tamimi, the oldest biographer on Babak, Bābak's father was a Persian cooking-oil vendor from Ctesiphon, capital of the Sasanian Empire (modern al-Mada'in, 35 km south of Baghdad in Iraq) who left for the Adharbayjani frontier zone and settled in the village of Balālābād in the Maymadh district. According to Fasīh, his mother – a native Persian of Iranian Azerbaijan region – was known as Mahru (Persian: ماهرو) meaning the \"Moon-Face\" in Persian language.\n\nAfter his father's death in his early teens, Babak was given the responsibility of his two brothers and mother during a Zoroastrian ceremony in a fire temple. By the age of 18, Bābak had established himself in the city of Tabriz and was engaged in the arms trade and industry. He also served a certain Muhammad ibn Rawwad Azdi. Later on, this engagement gave him the opportunity to travel to some regions and become familiar with regions like the Caucasus, the Middle East, and the Byzantine Empire.\n\nIn 755, Abu Muslim was murdered. Although he had helped the Abbasids to defeat the former Caliphs, the Umayyad dynasty, the ruling Caliph had given the order to kill him, probably because of his increasing popularity among Iranians and Non-Muslims. Many Iranians, who had expected more freedom and more rights from the new rulers, could not believe that their hero was killed by the ruling Caliph whom they had considered a friend of Iran and Iranians.\n\nThis incident led to many revolts, mostly by angry Khurramiyyah (\"Khorram-Dinān\") and some Zoroastrians. This, in turn, forced the Caliphs to use more violence against the Iranian population in order to keep the eastern provinces under control. The constant revolts did not come to an end in the following decades, and the Iranian population of the Caliphate was constantly being oppressed.\n\nBabak joined the Khurramiyyah (\"Khorram-Dinān\"). The story of joining the Khorrami movement is being told in Waqed's account, in summary, as follows:\n\nUnder the direction of his mentor Javidan Shahrak, a leader of one of the sects of the Khorramdin, Babak's knowledge of history, geography, and the latest battle tactics strengthened his position as a favorite candidate for commander during the early wars against the Arab occupiers.\n\nBābak was a highly spiritual person who respected his Zoroastrian heritage. He made every possible effort to bring Iranians together and also with leaders such as Maziar to form a united front against the Arab Caliph. According to the medieval historian, Ibn Esfandyar, who composed the book \"Tarikh-e Tabaristan\" \"History of Tabaristan\", Maziar said:\nHowever, one of the most dramatic periods in the history of Iran was set under Bābak's leadership between 816–837. During these most crucial years, they not only fought against the Caliphate, but also for the preservation of Persian language and culture.\n\nAfter the death of Javidan, Babak married Javidan's wife and became the Khorramis' leader, sometime in the year 816-17 during al-Ma'mun's reign. Babak incited his followers to rise in rebellion against the caliphal regime. The reports state that Babak called Persians to arms, seized castles and strong points, thereby barring roads to his enemies. Gradually a large multitude joined him.\n\nAccording to Vladimir Minorsky, around the 9th–10th century:\nThere had long been groups of Khorramis scattered in Isfahan, Adharbayjan, Ray, Hamadan, Armenia, Gorgan, and elsewhere in Iran, and there had been some earlier Khorrami revolts, e.g., in Gorgan jointly with Red Banner (Sorkh-'alamān) Bātenis in the caliph Al-Mahdi's reign in 778-79, when 'Amr b. 'Ala', the governor of Tabarestān, was ordered to repulse them, and at Isfahan, Ray, Hamadan, and elsewhere in Harun al-Rashid's realm, when 'Abd-Allah b. Malek and Abu Dolaf 'Ejli put them down on caliph's behalf – but none had the scale and duration of Babak's revolt, which pinned down caliphal armies for twenty years. After Babak's emergence, the Khorrami movement was centered in Adharbayjan and reinforced with volunteers from elsewhere, probably including descendants of Abu Muslim's supporters and other Iranian enemies of the 'Abbasid caliphate. The figures given for the strength of Babak's Khorramdinan army, such as 100,000 men (Abu'l-Ma'ali), 200,000 (Mas'udi), or innumerable (Baghdadi) are doubtless highly exaggerated but at least indicate that it was large. At that time of Babak, there were Khorramis scattered in many regions of Iran, besides Adharbayjan, reportedly in Tabarestan, Khorasan, Balkh, Isfahan, Kashan, Qom, Ray, Karaj, Hamadan, Lorestan, Khuzestan as well as in Basra, and Armenia.\n\nTabari records that Babak claimed he possessed Javadan's spirit and that Babak became active in 816–817. In 819–820 Yahya ibn Mu'adh fought against Babak, but could not defeat him. Two years later Babak vanquished the forces of Isa ibn Muhammad ibn Abi Khalid. In 824–825 the caliphal general Ahmad ibn al Junayd was sent against Babak. Babak defeated and captured him.\n\nIn 827–828 Muhammad ibn Humayd Tusi was dispatched to fight Babak. He won a victory and sent some captured enemy, but not Babak, to al-Ma'mun. However, about two years later, on June 9, 829, Babak won a decisive victory over this general at Hashtadsar. Muhammad ibn Humayd lost his life. Many of his soldiers were killed. The survivors fled in disarray.\n\nIn 835–836 the caliph al-Mu'tasim sent his outstanding general Afshin against Babak. Afshin rebuilt fortresses. He employed a relay system to protect supply caravans. Babak tried to capture the money being sent to pay Afshin's army, but was himself surprised, lost many men and barely escaped. He did succeed in capturing some supplies and inflicting some hardship on his enemies. Amongst Babak's commander, various names have been mentioned including Azin, Rostam, Tarkhan, Mua’wiyah and Abdullah.\n\nThe next year Babak routed the forces of Afshin's subordinate, Bugha al-Kabir. In 837–838 al-Mu'tasim reinforced Afshin and provided him clear military instructions. Patiently following these enabled Afshin to capture Babak's stronghold of Badhdh. Babak escaped. Al-Mu'tasim sent a safety guarantee for Babak to Afshin. This was taken to Babak who was very displeased. He said:\n\n\"Better to live for just a single day as a ruler than to live for forty years as an abject slave.\"\n\nHe decided to leave the country for the Byzantine Empire and on his way Babak met Sahl Smbatean (Sahl ibn Sunbat in Arab sources), Prince of Khachen, who was Armenian due to the Armenian historiography and Caucasian Albanian due to the Adharbayjani historiography. Sahl Smbatian, however, handed Babak over to Afshin in return for a large reward. Al-Mu'tasim commanded his general to bring Babak to him. Afshin informed Babak of this and told him since Babak might never return, this was the time to take a last look around. At Babak's request, Afshin allowed his prisoner to go to Badhdh. There Babak walked through his ruined stronghold one night until dawn.\n\nEventually, Bābak, his wife, and his warriors were forced to leave \"Ghaleye Bābak\" after 23 years of constant campaigns.\n\nHe was eventually betrayed by Afshin and was handed over to the Abbasid Caliph. During Bābak's execution, the Caliph's henchmen first cut off his legs and hands in order to convey the most devastating message to his followers. The legend says that Bābak bravely rinsed his face with the drained blood pouring out of his cuts, thus depriving the Caliph and the rest of the Abbasid army from seeing his pale face, a result of the heavy loss of blood. He was then gibbeted alive whilst sewn into a cow's skin with the horns at ear level to gradually crush his head as it dried out.\n\nBabak Khorramdin was not well known outside academia until the 20th century; however, due to Soviet nation building efforts and Babak's following of teaching of Mazdak with its pseudo-communist and socialist themes, Babak Khorramdin was proclaimed a national hero in the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic. For example, the Soviet era scholar Ziya Bunyadov, claimed that \"Babak was a national hero of Azerbaijani people\" while the Russian ethnologist, historian and anthropologist Victor Schnirelmann dismisses Bunyadov's theory, criticizing Bunyadov for not mentioning that Babak spoke Persian, and ignoring the witness accounts of Babak's contemporaries who call him Persian. To this day, in the modern Republic of Azerbaijan, Babak is a cult figure and celebrated as a national hero. In modern Iran, due to the rise of nationalism in the 20th century, and renewed interest in pre-Islamic Iran, Babak Khorramdin was rediscovered during the reign of Reza Shah, and is celebrated as a national hero. However, Babak remains a controversial figure in the Islamic Republic, whose idolization is criticized by some Shia clerics.\n\nMuhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari History v. 32 \"The Reunification of the Abbasid Caliphate\", transl. C.E. Bosworth, SUNY, Albany, 1987; v. 33 \"Storm and Stress along the Northern Frontiers of the Abbasid Caliphate\", transl. C.E. Bosworth, SUNY, Albany, 1991\n\n"}
{"id": "20937692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20937692", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Kiribati", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Kiribati\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Kiribati begins after 1916 with a mention by `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, that Bahá'ís should take the religion to the Gilbert Islands which form part of modern Kiribati. The first Bahá'ís pioneered to the island of Abaiang(aka Charlotte Island, of the Gilbert Islands), on March 4, 1954. They encountered serious opposition from some Catholics on the islands and were eventually deported and the first convert banished to his home island. However, in one year there was a community of more than 200 Bahá'ís and a Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly. Three years later the island where the first convert was sent to was found to now have 10 Bahá'ís. By 1963 there were 14 assemblies. As the Ellice Islands gained independence as Tuvalu and the Gilbert Islands and others formed Kiribati, the communities of Bahá'ís also reformed into separate institutions of National Spiritual Assemblies in 1981. The Bahá'ís had established a number schools by 1963 and there are still such today - indeed the Ootan Marawa Bahá'í Vocational Institute being the only teacher training institution for pre-school teachers in Kiribati. All together the Bahá'ís now claim more than 10,000 local people have joined the religion over the last 50 years and there are 38 local spiritual assemblies.\n\nFrom 1892 to 1977 the islands of Kiribatu were known as part of the British Empire and included the Gilbert Islands. `Abdu'l-Bahá, head of the religion from 1892 to 1921, mentioned the Gilbert Islands among the places Bahá'ís should take the religion to. `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The seventh of the tablets mentioned taking the Bahá'í Faith to the Gilbert Islands and was written on April 11, 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. These tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919.\n\n(Tablet 7) \"A party speaking their languages, severed, holy, sanctified and filled with the love of God, must turn their faces to and travel through the three great island groups of the Pacific Ocean—Polynesia, Micronesia and Melanesia, and the islands attached to these groups, such as New Guinea, Borneo, Java, Sumatra, Philippine Islands, Solomon Islands, Fiji Islands, New Hebrides, Loyalty Islands, New Caledonia, Bismarck Archipelago, Ceram, Celebes, Friendly Islands, Samoa Islands, Society Islands, Caroline Islands, Low Archipelago, Marquesas, Hawaiian Islands, Gilbert Islands, Moluccas, Marshall Islands, Timor and the other islands. With hearts overflowing with the love of God, with tongues commemorating the mention of God, with eyes turned to the Kingdom of God, they must deliver the glad tidings of the manifestation of the Lord of Hosts to all the people. Know ye of a certainty that whatever gathering ye enter, the waves of the Holy Spirit are surging over it, and the heavenly grace of the Blessed Beauty encompasseth that gathering.\"\n\nThe first Bahá'ís to Kiribati were Elena Marsella and Roy Fernie, who left their home in Panama and positions on the National Spiritual Assembly of Panama to pioneer. They arrived on the island of Abaiang (aka Charlotte Island, of the Gilbert Islands), on March 4, 1954. For this service they were named Knights of Baha'u'llah by then head of the religion, Shoghi Effendi. About the first of June 1954, former catholic seminarian and mission teacher Peter Kanere Koru quickly became the first convert on the island. He attributed his conversion in part to his attraction to the racial equality practiced by the pioneers, and their desire to implement such equality in his society.\n\nWhen Koru became the first Bahá'í Shoghi Effendi urged him in a letter of welcome to be \"very discreet in spreading this Message\", explaining that the Bahá'ís did not wish to become a \"source of discord, or arouse opposition\". However several issues came to the fore to animate hostility from the local Catholics. First, Roy was an amateur magician. Roy was a confident figure who held a show along with a piano the first night they arrived. Records show that within weeks he attracted Sunday audiences perhaps dropping attendance at Sunday services. In the judgement of researcher Graham Hassall, Roy was most likely unaware of the fact that sorcery and magic were practiced widely in Gilbertese culture, and were being actively suppressed by the Catholics ministers and now here was a new presence in the community giving shows including magic tricks. Indeed, there are reports the Catholic minister's actions against the Bahá'ís helped spread knowledge of them. Then there was the attempt of the Fernies to set up an English language school - and the fund-raising activities they organised in Tuarabu conflicted with the Tuarabu Catholics attempt to raise funds for their own purposes and embarrassingly unable to match donations with another nearby Catholic community. Indeed, a quarter ton of text books were sent from the Bahá'ís of Panama to support the imminent school which was to be open to all natives irrespective of their religion. Lastly the conversion of a seminarian and missionary teacher away from Catholicism - these are all issues mostly likely to lead to antagonism from the Catholics. Indeed, the Catholic mission worked to have the Fernies deported, and on several occasions used its journal to \"warn\" its members against examining this new religion. Central to their initial complaint to authorities, however, was the fact that missionary activity required 100 or 200 individuals to sanction a group of religionists to allow for missionary work. However over two hundred Abaiang residents registered their wish to become Bahá'ís after showing up at the home of the Fernies at 3am, and some 90 people came the next day to see Koru whom Catholic opposition had forced into banishment to his home island of Tabiteuea later in June. His pregnant wife who went into labour had to be left behind in a hospital and she died a short time later. On 24 September 1955 the government gave legal recognition to the first Bahá'í institution in the islands, the village of Tuarabu's Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly on the island of Abaiang. Regardless, Roy Fernie was deported in November 1955 with the support of local land owners. Through correspondence Koru and Elena Marsella were working on translations of a collection of the Bahá'í prayers, Hidden Words, and excerpts from the writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá until later in 1956 when Marsella left. Before she left the Education Department had approved Elena and two native Bahá'ís as teachers in the new school. The new Bahá'í community which had formed essentially in one year continued to function and for a time Shoghi Effendi requested no further pioneers go to the Gilbert Islands. Koru did not meet Bahá'ís again until four years later, but he remained steadfast in his beliefs. By the time Bahá'ís were eventually able to come to visit him, nine more people were active members of the religion on his island, (apparently nearly fifty had been drawn to the religion there.) One of them was a Protestant minister then under disciplinary sanction by his church.\n\nIn 1956 four assemblies (including Tuarabu, Tebero, and Kuria) were elected and five smaller groups of Bahá'ís. In addition to Koru, other early converts included Taukoriri Eritai, who became a Bahá'í at the time the Fernies were on Abainag, and Timeon Tamaroa who helped take the religion to the island of Beru. In earliest 1957 Shoghi Effendi allowed pioneers to consider the Gilbert Islands and Frances Heller from the United States was able to arrive on February 8, 1957. She was able to remain despite failing health until June 1958 - having helped elect the spiritual assembly of Betio. American Mabel Adelle Sneider was the next to arrive and she and Heller agreed the religion needed to be taken to the capital of the islands. So it was that Sneider established herself in the village of Bikenibeu on Tarawa in October 1958. Sneider lived there for 15 years helping to transfer the center of Bahá'í activities from the relatively remote island of Abaiang to the civic capital on Tarawa - eventually Snieder was elected to the National Spiritual Assembly often serving as secretary or treasurer at one time or another. She helped purchase the site for the National Haziratu'l-Quds, or the seat, of the National Assembly. Pioneers Joe Russell (arrived in May 1959, and became a Kiritbati citizen) and John Thurston soon followed. Meanwhile, the school started by the Fernies was noted as still in existence in 1958 despite their absence. By 1959 a new building, on donated land and built by Bahá'ís alone, had managed to be built for the school while temporary housing for visitors and Bahá'í centers were being raised. By November 1959 two summer schools were held and a conference to discuss the progress of the religion on the islands. Russell was able to travel to Tabiteuea to join Koru in December 1959 and together they helped establish three assemblies by April 1960. By 1961 there were thirteen communities with Bahá'ís.\n\nWith a few pioneers and many local converts the community in the South Pacific was organized into a regional national spiritual assembly for the South Pacific Islands which was elected from 1957 to 1967 including Cook Island, Fiji, New Caledonia, Samoa and other islands. The delegates from the Gilbert and Ellice Islands were unable to attend the 1959 election. By 1961 the religion had reached the Ocean Island (now called Banada Island) and one of the delegates from the Gilbert Islands was able to attend the convention to elect the regional national spiritual assembly for the South Pacific Islands.\n\nBy the end of 1963 there were a wide range of communities across the Gilbert Islands with 14 assemblies, 19 groups, and 7 additional isolated Bahá'ís.\n\nThe Bahá'ís established a number of schools by 1963 - Tuarabu Primary School, Abaiang Island, and several on Tabiteuea Island - Eita, Utiroa, Taku and Tababuea Primary Schools.\n\nYale University professor Charles Forman analyzed religious trends across the Pacific Islands and attributes the surprising growth of the Bahá'í Faith across Micronesia was partly due to a certain amount of response from some youths of wider experience and education as well as from some village folk among whom Bahá'ís settled In October 1966 Hand of the Cause Collis Featherstone attended the dedication of the main Bahá'í center of the islands inaugurated with a conference discussing the progress of the religion on the island.\n\nWith the assistance of the Hands of the Cause Collis Featherstone and Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir the Bahá'í communities in the area reorganized to form a regional National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands in 1967. In 1970 the national assembly held three classes on methods Bahá'ís use for growth of the religion and began holding them in a building, the Bahá'í Institute, owned by the assembly. In May 1971 an international conference on the progress of the religion across the south pacific as held in Suva, Fiji to which Gilbert Island Bahá'ís went. Following that conference a national conference for the Gilbert Islands was held at the Bahá'í Institute. As of 1972 the statistics of the national assembly counted 2700 members across Gilbert and Ellice Islands with 51 Assemblies. In February 1973 the national assembly produced two five-minute radio programs for an observance of Human Rights Day that was broadcast on radio in two languages, Gilbertese and Ellice. The program was on the equality of men and women, with passages from the Writings of `Abdu'l-Bahá and a report on the advancement of women in the islands. In April 1973 twenty-three delegates from nine islands gathered in the National Teaching Institute and the Bahá'í Maneba, a native meeting hall with no sides and a high thatched roof, for the national convention. Together the Institute and the Maneaba are part of the national headquarters Pao Penox. For United Nations Day the national assembly distributed background materials on the observance to national Director of Information, thee King George IV boarding school, the island Teachers College, and to the Department of Education. In 1976 Hand of the Cause Collis Featherstone made a return trip the islands of the region. While in Kiribati he addressed a reception held in his honor and attended by the governor, deputy governor, and government ministers and secretaries. A copy of \"The Bahá'í' World\", vol. XIV, was presented to the governor for the House of Assembly library and a 20-minute radio interview with Mr. and Mrs. Featherstone was broadcast over Radio Tarawa. In 1978 the Bahá'ís took various roles about societal issues. First in several events across the islands they participated in and helped organize the occasions commemorating Japanese soldiers who died in the islands in World War II. Second they helped during a cholera outbreak in September - the Baha'is relayed messages using the radio equipment on the Bahá'í-owned catamaran \"Erena-Roe\" which also ferried patients to the hospital and a Bahá'í served as secretary of the government's response committee created to manage the epidemic. The \"Erena-Roe\" was making a last run before the owner left the islands and came across a girl in the ocean who was returned to her native island alive though feared dead. By 1979 the national assembly reported there were 80 local assemblies - 16 of which were officially registered with the government and 13 of which had their own centers.\n\nAs the Ellice Islands gained independence as Tuvalu and the Gilbert Islands and others formed Kiribati, the communities of Bahá'ís also reformed into separate institutions of National Spiritual Assemblies in 1981.\n\nFollowing the growth of the institutions the sociological impact of the Bahá'ís became more well known starting in the 1980s. It became known that the Bahá'ís of Kiribati used traditional Maneba buildings to meet in. Thanks to Peter King, a New Zealand Bahá'í pioneer on Tarawa, a center was raised on Christmas Island in 1981. By 1982 there were 50 local assemblies across Kiribati. Henry Brechtefeld was born in Kiribati but moved to the Solomon Islands where he came in contact with the Garcias, converted, and then moved on the islands of Micronesia, including back to Kiribati, and was well known to have reformed his behavior among his family on Kiribati and friends. He died in 1982 back on the Solomon Islands. In 1984, Art New Zealand profiled Robin White as a Kiribati artist who had moved from metropolitan New Zealand of Dunedin to life on the tropical island. In 1985 the Bahá'ís held their first national youth conference in Bikenibeu. By 1986 there is a Bahá'í on the Pacific Christmas Island which is closer to Honolulu than to the capital on Tarawa, 2000 miles to the west.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. The Bahá'ís of Kiribati have engaged a wide variety of social and economic development projects. The Ootan Marawa Bahá'í Vocational Institute, a high school, is the only teacher training institution for pre-school teachers in Kiribati. It is open to all, regardless of religion, and is assisted by the National Spiritual Assemblies of the Bahá'ís of Australia and New Zealand. There are five pre-schools administered by Bahá'í local spiritual assemblies on Tarawa and the outer islands. They accept pupils of all religious affiliations. After coming to a reception at the national convention and noting the importance of religious unity and liberty in Kiribati, the contributions to Kiribati society were noted by then president, Ieremia Tabai, and ministers of government in speeches when they then attended a 1986 peace conference at which over 1000 Bahá'ís attended. The successes of the schools in Kiribati were discussed at the 100th Anniversary of the Bahá'í Faith in Hawaii at breakout workshops in 2001 which included participants from many countries. The Kiribati government supported the United Nations General Assembly vote on the \"Situation of Human Rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran\" (A/56/583/Add.3 Draft Resolution) on 19 December 2001.\n\nInternal the community among the developments are the following. In 1990 the national convention elected two indigenous women, Maureen Nakekea and Marao Teem, to the national assembly. At the 50th anniversary, 2004, celebrations of the Bahá'í Faith in Kiribati dignitaries attending included President Anote Tong and Madam Tong, Mr. Michael Fudakowski, representing the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of New Zealand and who lived for some 17 years in Kiribati with his wife, Robin White, now a member of the Continental Board of Counsellors in Australasia, and their family. Mr. Dominic Tabuaka represented the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the Marshall Islands, and congratulatory messages arrived from Bahá'ís in Australia, Canada, Hawaii, the Solomon Islands, Ukraine, the United States, and Western Caroline Islands.\n\nThere has long been a discrepancy between census figures and assertions by the Bahá'í community on their population in Kiribati. The census figures are consistently between 2 and 3% while the Bahá'ís claim numbers above 17% as far back as 1987. Bahá'ís now claim more than 10,000 local people have joined the religion over the last 50 years and there are 38 local spiritual assemblies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3249918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3249918", "title": "Buddhism in Indonesia", "text": "Buddhism in Indonesia\n\nBuddhism has a long history in Indonesia, and is recognized as one of six official religions in Indonesia, along with Islam, Christianity (Protestantism and Catholicism), Hinduism and Confucianism. According to the 2000 national census roughly 0.8% of the total citizens of Indonesia were Buddhists, and numbered around 1.7 million. Most Buddhists are concentrated in Jakarta, Riau, Riau Islands, Bangka Belitung, North Sumatra, and West Kalimantan. These totals, however, are probably inflated, as practitioners of Taoism and Chinese folk religion, which are not considered official religions of Indonesia, likely declared themselves as Buddhists on the most recent census. Today, the majority of Buddhists in Indonesia are Chinese, however small numbers of native (such as Javanese and Sasak) Buddhists are also present.\n\nBuddhism is the second oldest religion in Indonesia after Hinduism, which arrived from India around the second century. The history of Buddhism in Indonesia is closely related to the history of Hinduism, as a number of empires influenced by Indian culture were established around the same period. The arrival of Buddhism in the Indonesian archipelago began with trading activity, from the early 1st century, by way of the maritime Silk Road between Indonesia and India. The oldest Buddhist archaeological site in Indonesia is arguably the Batujaya stupas complex in Karawang, West Java. The oldest relic in Batujaya was estimated to originate from the 2nd century, while the latest dated from the 12th century. Subsequently, significant numbers of Buddhist sites were found in Jambi, Palembang, and Riau provinces in Sumatra, as well as in Central and East Java. The Indonesian archipelago has, over the centuries, witnessed the rise and fall of powerful Buddhist empires, such as the Sailendra dynasty, the Mataram, and Srivijaya empires.\n\nAccording to some Chinese source, a Chinese Buddhist monk I-tsing on his pilgrim journey to India, witnessed the powerful maritime empire of Srivijaya based on Sumatra in the 7th century. The empire served as a Buddhist learning center in the region. A notable Srivijayan revered Buddhist scholar is Dharmakirti, a Srivijayan prince of the Sailendra dynasty, born around the turn of the 7th century in Sumatra. He became a revered scholar-monk in Srivijaya and moved to India to become a teacher at the famed Nalanda University, as well as a poet. He built on and reinterpreted the work of Dignaga, the pioneer of Buddhist Logic, and was very influential among Brahman logicians as well as Buddhists. His theories became normative in Tibet and are studied to this day as a part of the basic monastic curriculum. Other Buddhist monks that visited Indonesia were Atisha, Dharmapala, a professor of Nalanda, and the South Indian Buddhist Vajrabodhi. Srivijaya was the largest Buddhist empire ever formed in Indonesian history.\n\nA number of Buddhist historical heritages can be found in Indonesia, including the 8th century Borobudur mandala monument and Sewu temple in Central Java, Batujaya in West Java, Muaro Jambi, Muara Takus and Bahal temple in Sumatra, and numerous of statues or inscriptions from the earlier history of Indonesian Hindu-Buddhist kingdoms. During the era of Kediri, Singhasari and Majapahit empire, buddhism — identified as \"Dharma ri Kasogatan\" — was acknowledged as one of kingdom's official religions along with Hinduism. Although some of kings might favour Hinduism over another, nevertheless the harmony, toleration, and even syncretism were promoted as manifested in Bhinneka Tunggal Ika national motto, coined from Kakawin Sutasoma, written by Mpu Tantular to promotes tolerance between Hindus (Shivaites) and Buddhists. The classical era of ancient Java also had produces some of the exquisite examples of Buddhist arts, such as the statue of Prajnaparamita and the statue of Buddha Vairochana and Boddhisttva Padmapani and Vajrapani in Mendut temple.\n\nIn the 13th century Islam entered the archipelago, and began gaining foothold in coastal port towns. The fall of Hindu-Buddhist Majapahit empire in late 15th century marked the end of dharmic civilization dominance in Indonesia. By the end of the 16th century, Islam had supplanted Hinduism and Buddhism as the dominant religion of Java and Sumatra. After that for 450 years, there is no significant Buddhist adherence and practice in Indonesia. Many of Buddhist sites, stupas, temples, and manuscripts are lost or forgotten, as the region has become more predominantly Muslim. During this era of decline, there was only small numbers of people practicing Buddhism, most of them are Chinese immigrants that settled in Indonesia with migration wave accelerated in the 17th century. Many of \"klenteng\" (Chinese temples) in Indonesia are in fact a \"tridharma\" temple that houses three faiths, namely Buddhism, Confucianism and Taoism.\n\nIn 1934, Narada Thera, a missionary monk from Sri Lanka, visited Dutch East Indies (today Indonesia) for the first time as part of his journey to spread the Dharma in Southeast Asia. This opportunity was used by a few local Buddhists to revive Buddhism in Indonesia. A Bodhi tree planting ceremony was held in Southeastern side of Borobudur on 10 March 1934 under the blessing of Narada Thera, and some Upasakas were ordained as monks.\n\nFollowing the downfall of President Sukarno in the mid-1960s, Pancasila was reasserted as the official Indonesian policy on religion to only recognise monotheism . As a result, founder of Perbuddhi (Indonesian Buddhists Organisation), Bhikku Ashin Jinarakkhita, proposed that there was a single supreme deity, Sanghyang Adi Buddha. He was also backed up with the history behind the Indonesian version of Buddhism in ancient Javanese texts, and the shape of the Borobudur Temple.\n\nDuring the New Order era, the state ideology of Pancasila listed Buddhism among the five official religions of Indonesia. The national leader of the time, Suharto, had considered Buddhism and Hinduism as Indonesian classical religions.\n\nThe first Theravada ordination of bhikkhunis in Indonesia after more than a thousand years occurred in 2015 at Wisma Kusalayani in Lembang, Bandung. Those ordained included Vajiradevi Sadhika Bhikkhuni from Indonesia, Medha Bhikkhuni from Sri Lanka, Anula Bhikkhuni from Japan, Santasukha Santamana Bhikkhuni from Vietnam, Sukhi Bhikkhuni and Sumangala Bhikkhuni from Malaysia, and Jenti Bhikkhuni from Australia.\n\nToday, in reference to the principle of Pancasila, a Buddhist monk representing the Buddhist Sangha, along with priest, Brahmin, pastor or representative of other recognized religions, would participate in nearly all state-sponsored ceremonies. The ceremony would always include a prayer (led by a Muslim imam with representatives of other faiths standing in a row behind him). It is noteworthy that, although the majority of Indonesian Buddhists are of the Chinese Mahayana school, more often than not the representative of Buddhism as selected by the Government would happen to be a Theravada monk.\n\nOnce a year, thousands of Buddhists from Indonesia and neighboring countries flock to Borobudur to commemorate national Vesak ceremony.\n\nThe oldest extant esoteric Buddhist Mantranaya (largely a synonym of Mantrayana, Vajrayana and Buddhist Tantra) literature in Old Javanese, a language significantly influenced by Sanskrit, is enshrined in the \"Sang Kyang Kamahayanan Mantranaya\".\n\nThe \"Lalitavistara Sutra\" was known to the Mantranaya stonemasons of Borobudur, refer: The birth of Buddha (Lalitavistara). 'Mantranaya' is not a corruption or misspelling of 'mantrayana' even though it is largely synonymous. Mantranaya is the term for the esoteric tradition on mantra, a particular lineage of Vajrayana and Tantra, in Indonesia. The clearly Sanskrit sounding 'Mantranaya' is evident in Old Javanese tantric literature, particularly as documented in the oldest esoteric Buddhist tantric text in Old Javanese, the \"Sang Kyang Kamahayanan Mantranaya\" refer Kazuko Ishii (1992).\n\nIn Indonesia Buddhism is mainly followed by the Chinese Indonesian people and some small indigenous groups of Indonesia, with 0.8% (including Taoism and Confucianism) of Indonesia's population being Buddhists.\n\nA small minority of Sasaks called the \"Bodha\" (estimated population: 8000) are mainly found in the village of Bentek and on the slopes of Gunung Rinjani, Lombok. They are totally untouched by Islamic influence and worship animistic gods, incorporating some Hindu and Buddhist influences in their rituals and religious vocabulary. This group of Sasak, due in part to the name of their tribe, are recognized as Buddhists by the Indonesian government.\n\nPockets of Javanese Buddhists also exist and are to be found mainly in villages and cities in Central and East Java. The regencies of Temanggung, Blitar and Jepara count about 30.000 Buddhists, mostly of Javanese ethnicity.\n\nToday there are numerous Buddhist schools established in Indonesia. The earliest school that was established in Indonesia was Vajrayana Buddhism, which developed from Mahayana Buddhism, and which had some similarities with later Tibetan Buddhism. Various temples of ancient Java and Sumatra are Vajrayana. Chinese Buddhism (the main branch of Mahayana Buddhism) has gained followers from Chinese Indonesian populations that began to migrate into the archipelago during the 17th to 18th century. Other notable schools are Theravada Buddhism from Sri Lanka and Thailand.\n\nIndonesia's most notable Buddhist organization is Perwakilan Umat Buddha Indonesia (Walubi) which serves as the vehicle of all Buddhist schools in Indonesia. Other Buddhist organizations include Majelis Buddhayana Indonesia, Sangha Agung Indonesia (SAGIN), Sangha Theravada Indonesia (STI), Sangha Mahayana Indonesia, and the Taiwan-originated Tzu-Chi.\n\nThe most important Buddhist religious event in Indonesia is Vesak (). Once a year, during the full moon in May or June, Buddhists in Indonesia observe Vesak day commemorating the birth, death, and the time when Siddhārtha Gautama attained the highest wisdom to become the Buddha Shakyamuni. Vesak is an official national holiday in Indonesia and the ceremony is centered at the three Buddhist temples by walking from Mendut to Pawon and ending at Borobudur.\nVesak also is often celebrated in Sewu temple and numerous Buddhist temples in Indonesia.\n\nThe Chinese Indonesian community in Tanjung Balai municipality in North Sumatra has protested against the administration’s plan to dismantle a statue of Buddha on top of the Tri Ratna Temple.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21671388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21671388", "title": "Buddhist Sangha of Vietnam", "text": "Buddhist Sangha of Vietnam\n\nThe Buddhist Sangha of Vietnam (abbreviated as BSV, Vietnamese: Giáo hội Phật giáo Việt Nam) is the only Buddhist Sangha recognised by the Vietnamese government and is a member of the Vietnamese Fatherland Front. The BSV was founded after Vietnam's Buddhist Convention was held at Quan Su Temple on November 7, 1981. The BSV was founded to unify Buddhist activities of Vietnamese Buddhist monks, nuns and lay followers. The Head of the 6th term Buddhist Sangha of Vietnam (2007-2012) is Most Venerable Thich Pho Tue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3919703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3919703", "title": "Buddhist initiation ritual", "text": "Buddhist initiation ritual\n\nThe lay Buddhist ordination (, Japanese: , Korean: \"sugye\" (수계) refers to the public ordination ceremony wherein a lay follower of Buddhism receives certain Buddhist precepts. The particulars of the ceremony differ widely by country and by school of Buddhism.\n\nIn Japan, the ritual is called \"jukai\".\n\nIn the Sōtō school in the United States, lay initiates take refuge in the Three Jewels (or Three Refuges--Buddha, Dharma and Sangha), the Three Pure Precepts (to do no harm, to do only good, and to do good for others) and the Five Grave Precepts--Affirm life: do not kill; Be giving: do not take what is not freely given; Honor the body: do not engage in sexual misconduct; \nManifest truth: do not speak falsely; and Proceed clearly: do not cloud the mind with intoxicants.\n\nIn the Rinzai school students take refuge in the Three Jewels (or Three Refuges) and, similarly to the Chinese and Korean practices derived from India, they receive the five precepts for laypersons.\n\nIn South Korea, the ritual, called \"sugye\" (수계), involves formally taking refuge in The Three Jewels of Buddhism: the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha, and accepting the five precepts. During the ritual, the initiate is touched with a burning incense stick. This is to leave a permanent mark which serves to remind the initiate of their promise to uphold the five precepts. During (or right after) the ceremony, the initiate is given a Buddhist name.\n\nIn China, the ritual, is called \"shòu-jiè\" (受戒). The character 受 means \"receive,\" while 戒 means \"precepts.\" Taken together, the characters translate as \"initiated\" or \"ordained.\"\n\nMany people believe in Buddhism but do not go through any initiation ceremonies. Such Buddhists make up the overwhelming majority. Only a small part of Buddhists have gone through the ceremony which makes the recipient an upasaka or upasika and accepted the five commandments. They are formal Buddhists.\n\nLewis Hodus, in his 1920 book \"Buddhism and Buddhists in China\" remarks on the Chinese ceremony as well, after recording an initiation ceremony for both those entering monastic life and the laity: \"Less private was the initiation of the lay brethren and sisters, more lightly branded on the right wrist, while all about intoned 'Na-mah Pen-shih Shih-chia-mou-ni Fo.' (I put my trust in my Original Teacher, Säkyamuni-Buddha.)\" In modern notation and Chinese, this would be written \"Namo Benshi Shijiamouni-Fo\" (南無本師釋迦牟尼佛).\n\nIn the United States, \"jukai is a formal rite of passage that marks entrance into the Buddhist community. At that time, a student is given a Dharma name. He or she also makes a commitment to the precepts, which are interpreted a bit differently in various communities.\" \n\nIn the Diamond Sangha, jukai is \"commonly practiced\" though some members never undergo the ceremony because they are members of another religion which prohibits such initiations. Therefore, some would say, they are not Buddhist by definition.\n\nAt the Rochester Zen Center and its affiliated centers, the jukai ceremony involves taking the same precepts as in the Soto and White Plum traditions; however, from school to school or lineage to lineage, interpretation and translation of precepts can vary.\n\nThe White Plum Asanga follows the same ritual as the Japanese Soto-school.\n\n"}
{"id": "7213009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7213009", "title": "Bunmei Ibuki", "text": "Bunmei Ibuki\n\nHe was born in Kyoto to a family of textile wholesalers who had operated the business since the Edo period. He graduated with a BA from Kyoto University's economics department in 1960. At Kyoto University he was a member of the tennis club. Upon graduation Ibuki became a bureaucrat at the Ministry of Finance. He was dispatched to the Japanese embassy in London in 1965, where he stayed for four years.\n\nIbuki entered politics in 1983 at former Finance Minister Michio Watanabe's behest. He is a member of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and has served in a variety of government positions, including Minister of Labour and National Public Safety Commission chairman.\n\nHe was appointed Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology on 26 September 2006 as a part of Prime Minister Shinzō Abe's first cabinet. In this position, he promoted the controversial revision of the Fundamental Law of Education. He was subsequently appointed as Secretary-General of the LDP in September 2007; less than a year later, he was replaced in that position by Taro Aso and was instead appointed as Minister of Finance. He is known for his knowledge of finance and tax and welfare policies. He held the post of Finance Minister for less than two months, however, and was replaced by Shōichi Nakagawa in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Taro Aso, appointed on 24 September 2008.\n\nOn 26 December 2012, Bunmei Ibuki was elected Speaker of the House of Representatives of Japan. He presided over the day of his inauguration, the election of Prime Minister Shinzō Abe.\n\nIbuki is a fluent English speaker and a believer of Tenrikyo. He is a member of the openly revisionist lobby Nippon Kaigi, and affiliated to the fundamentalist shinto lobby Shinto Seiji Renmei Kokkai Giin Kondankai (神道政治連盟国会議員懇談会).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "308673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=308673", "title": "Chantal Akerman", "text": "Chantal Akerman\n\nChantal Anne Akerman (; 6 June 19505 October 2015) was a Belgian film director, screenwriter, artist, and film professor at the City College of New York. She is best known for her three hour \"magnum opus\" \"Jeanne Dielman, 23 quai du Commerce, 1080 Bruxelles\" (1975), which was dubbed a \"masterpiece\" by \"The New York Times\". According to film scholar Gwendolyn Audrey Foster, Akerman's influence on feminist filmmaking and avant-garde cinema has been substantial.\n\nAkerman was born in Brussels, Belgium to Holocaust survivors from Poland. She was the older sister of Sylviane Akerman, her only sibling. Her mother Natalia (Nelly) had survived years at Auschwitz, where her own parents had died. From a young age, Akerman and her mother were exceptionally close, and she encouraged her daughter to pursue a career rather than marry young. \n\nAt age 18, Akerman entered the Institut National Supérieur des Arts du Spectacle et des Techniques de Diffusion, a Belgian film school. Akerman dropped out during her first term to make the short film \"Saute ma ville\"; she funded the film's costs by trading diamond shares on the Antwerp stock exchange.\n\nAkerman had an extremely close relationship with her mother, captured in some of her films. In 1976 \"News From Home\", Akerman's mother's letters outlining mundane family activities serve as a soundtrack throughout the film. The 2015 \"No Home Movie\" centers on mother-daughter relationships, largely situated in the kitchen, and is a response to her mother's death. The film explores issues of metempsychosis, the last shot of the film acting as a memento mori of the mother's apartment.\n\nAkerman acknowledged that her mother was at the center of her work and admitted to feeling directionless after her death. The maternal imagery can be found throughout all of Akerman's films, as an homage and an attempt to reconstitute the image and voice of the mother. In \"Family In Brussels\", Akerman narrates the story, interchanging her own voice with her mother's.\n\nAkerman claimed that, at the age of 15, after viewing Jean-Luc Godard's \"Pierrot le fou\" (1965), she decided, that same night, to become a filmmaker. In 1971, Akerman's first short film, \"Saute ma ville\", premiered at the International Short Film Festival Oberhausen. That year, she moved to New York City, where she remained until 1972.\n\nAt Anthology Film Archives in New York, Akerman was impressed with the work of Stan Brakhage, Jonas Mekas, Michael Snow, Yvonne Rainer, and Andy Warhol.\n\nHer first feature film, \"Hotel Monterey\" (1972), and subsequent short films, \"La Chambre 1\" and \"La Chambre 2\", reveal the influence of structural filmmaking through these films' usage of long takes. These protracted shots serve to oscillate images between abstraction and figuration. Akerman's films from this period also signify the start of her collaboration with cinematographer Babette Mangolte. \n\nIn 1973, Akerman returned to Belgium and, in 1974, she received critical recognition for her feature \"Je, Tu, Il, Elle (I, You, He, She)\". Feminist and queer film scholar B. Ruby Rich noted that \"Je Tu Il Elle\" can be seen as a \"cinematic Rosetta Stone of female sexuality\".\n\nAkerman's most significant film, \"Jeanne Dielman, 23 Quai du Commerce, 1080 Bruxelles\", was released in 1975. Often considered one of the greatest examples of feminist filmmaking, the film makes a hypnotic, real-time study of a middle-aged widow's stifling routine of domestic chores and prostitution. Upon the film's release, \"The New York Times\" called \"Jeanne Dielman\" the \"first masterpiece of the feminine in the history of the cinema\". Chantal Akerman scholar Ivone Margulies says the picture is a filmic paradigm for uniting feminism and anti-illusionism. The film was named the 19th greatest film of the 20th century by J. Hoberman of the \"Village Voice\".\n\nAkerman has acknowledged that her cinematic approach can be explained, in part, through the writings of Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guattari. Deleuze and Guattari write about the concept of minor literature as being characterized by the following things:\n\nDeleuze and Guattari claim that these characteristics describe the revolutionary conditions within the canon of literature. Akerman has referenced Deleuze and Guattari on how, in minor literature, the characters assume an immediate, nonhierarchical relation between small individual matters and economic, commercial, juridical, and political ones. While the filmmaker has an interest in multiple deterritorializations, she also considers the feminist demand for the exercise of identity, where a borderline status may be an undesirable position.\n\nAkerman has used the setting of a kitchen to explore the intersection between femininity and domesticity. The kitchens in Akerman's work provide intimate spaces for connection and conversation and serve the function of a backdrop to the dramas of daily life. The kitchens, alongside other domestic spaces, act as self-confining prisons under patriarchal conditions. In Akerman's work, the kitchen acts as a domestic theatre.\n\nAlthough Akerman is often grouped within feminist and queer thinking, the filmmaker has articulated her distance from an essentialist feminism. Akerman resists labels relating to her identity like \"female\", \"Jewish\" and \"lesbian\", choosing instead to immerse herself in the identity of being a daughter; Akerman has stated that she sees film as a \"generative field of freedom from the boundaries of identity\". The filmmaker has advocated for multiplicity of expression, explaining that \"when people say there is a feminist film language, it is like saying there is only one way for women to express themselves\". The filmmaker asserted that there are as many cinematic languages as there are individuals. \n\nWriter and scholar Ivone Marguiles notes that Akerman's resistance to be categorized is in response to the rigidity of cinema's earlier essentialist realism and \"indicates an awareness of the project of a transhistorical and transcultural feminist aesthetics of the cinema\".\n\nAkerman works with the feminist motto of the personal being political, complicating it by an investigation of representational links between private and public. In Jeanne Dielman, Akerman's most well-known film, the main protagonist does not supply a transparent, accurate representation of a fixed social reality. Throughout the film, the housewife and prostitute Jeanne is revealed to be a construct, with multiple historical, social, and cinematic resonances. \n\nAkerman engages with realist representations, a form which is historically grounded to act as a feminist gesture and simultaneously as an \"irritant\" to fixed categories of \"woman\".\n\nIn 1991, Akerman was a member of the jury at the 41st Berlin International Film Festival. In 2011, she joined the full-time faculty of the MFA Program in Media Arts Production at the City College of New York as a distinguished lecturer and the first Michael & Irene Ross Visiting Professor of Film/Video & Jewish Studies.\n\nImportant solo exhibitions of Akerman's work have been held at the Museum for Contemporary Art, Antwerp, Belgium (2012), MIT, Cambridge Massachusetts (2008), the Tel Aviv Museum of Art, Israel (2006); Princeton University Art Museum, Princeton, NJ (2006); and the Centre Georges Pompidou, Paris (2003). Akerman has participated in Documenta XI (2002) and the Venice Biennale (2001). \n\nIn 2011, a film retrospective of Akerman's work was shown at the Austrian Film Museum. \n\nThe 2015 Venice Biennale included an installation of interspersed parallel screens displaying the landscape-in-motion footage that would appear in \"No Home Movie\". \n\nIn 2018, the Jewish Museum presented her final video installation \"NOW\" (2015) in the exhibition \"Scenes from the Collection\", and acquired her work for the collection.\n\nAkerman's cinematography is characterized by the dryness of language, the lack of metaphorical associations, the composition in a series of discontinuous blocks, the interest in putting a poor, withered syntax and reduced vocabulary at the service of a new intensity. Many directors have cited Akerman's films as an influence on their work. Kelly Reichardt, Gus Van Sant, and Sofia Coppola have noted their exploration of filming in real time as a tribute to Akerman.\n\nTerrie Sultan, art historian, claims that Akerman's \"narrative is marked by an almost Proustian attention to detail and visual grace\". Similarly, Akerman's visual language resists easy categorization and summarization: the filmmaker creates narrative through filmic syntax instead of plot development.\n\nAkerman was influenced by European art cinema, as well as structuralist film. Structuralist film used formalist experimentation to propose a reciprocal relationship between image and viewer. Akerman cites Michael Snow as a structuralist inspiration, especially his film Wavelength, which is composed of a single shot of a photograph of a sea on a loft wall, with the camera slowly zooming in. Akerman was drawn to the perceived dullness of structuralism because it rejected the dominant cinema's concern for plot. As a teenager in Brussels, Akerman skipped school in order to see movies, including films from the experimental festival in Knokke-le-Zoute.\n\nAkerman addresses the voyeurism that is always present within cinematic discourse by often playing a character within her films, thus placing herself on both sides of the camera simultaneously. The filmmaker used the boredom of structuralism in order to generate a bodily feeling in the viewer, accentuating the passage of time.\n\nAkerman's filming style relies on capturing ordinary life. By encouraging viewers to have patience for a slower pace, her films emphasize the humanity of the everyday. Kathy Halbreich states that the filmmaker \"creates a cinema of waiting, of passages, of resolutions deferred\". \n\nMany of Akerman's films portray the movement of people across distances or their absorption with claustrophobic spaces. Curator Jon Davies states that Akerman's domestic interiors \"conceal gendered labour and violence, secrecy and shame, where traumas both large and small unfold with few, if any witnesses\".\n\nAkerman died on 5 October 2015 in Paris; \"Le Monde\" reported that she committed suicide. She was 65. Her last film was the documentary \"No Home Movie\", a series of conversations with her mother shortly before her mother's death; of the film, she said, \"I think if I knew I was going to do this, I wouldn't have dared to do it.\" \n\nAccording to Akerman's sister, she had recently been hospitalized for depression, before returning home to Paris ten days prior her death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54242039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54242039", "title": "Deus seja louvado", "text": "Deus seja louvado\n\n\"Deus seja louvado\" (In English, \"God be praised\") is an expression displayed in the left bottom part of all Brazilian real currency banknotes. It exists since the 1980 decade, when the then President of the Republic, José Sarney, openly Catholic, asked the Banco Central (Central Bank) to include the phrase in the cruzado coin. The Federal Government at the time got inspired by theist doctrines of other secular states such as the United States of America that were already using the motto \"In God We Trust\" in its dollar banknotes.\n\nThe first banknotes with the inscription were printed in February 24, 1986, when the executive order was presented to the Central Bank. This way, the expression remained throughout time, including real banknotes. Despite recent discussions and requests by secularist sectors of civil society for the phrase to be removed, it continues to be printed by the Central Bank, including new banknotes, printed since 2010. Faced with attempts to remove the phrase on the banknotes by the Public Ministry, José Sarney stated: \"I feel sorry for the man who does not believe in God on the face of the earth\".\n\nThe phrase \"God be praised\" creates arguments because, according to some, it would be contrary to the secular state, which does not privilege any religion, although there is no consensus on the part of the religious communities, especially the Christian ones. To many people, the phrase would not take into account the existence of non-theistic communities such as agnostics, Buddhists and atheists, as well as adherents of other non-monotheistic religions, such as Hinduism and Afro-Brazilian religions, but the population is in its vast majority adept of Christianity, which does not imply popular dissatisfaction due to the phrase in the coin. \n\nIn December 2010, the Federal Public Ministry in São Paulo notified the Central Bank to offer an answer on behalf of an \"offense to the secularism of the Federative Republic of Brazil\", suing the Central Bank for keeping the term \"God be praised\" in real banknotes. On November 12, 2012, the Regional Attorney's Office for Citizens' Rights asked the Federal Court to order the removal of the expression \"God be praised\" from the national currency banknotes, so as not to privilege any religion since the state is secular. The lawsuit was filed by Catholic prosecutor Jefferson Aparecido Dias.\n\nAccording to Dias, the measure \"would not cause expenses to the public finances, since a period of 120 days would be given so that the Casa da Moeda (Brazilian mint) begins to print the new notes without the phrase\". He also said that no law authorizes the inclusion of religious expressions in money. In addition, he said that the purpose of the lawsuit is to safeguard the right of religious freedom of all citizens. \"Let's imagine the real note with the following expressions: \"Allah be praised, Buddha be praised, Save Oxossi, Save Lord Ganesha, God does not exist. \"There would certainly be agitation in Brazilian society because of the embarrassment suffered by citizens believers in God,\" says an excerpt from the Attorney's complaint.\n\nChristian and political leaders came out with strong criticisms of the representation. Pastor Silas Malafaia said in a video posted on his website that the prosecutor is the same person who accepted and filed a homophobia complaint against him: \"I'm suspicious that this prosecutor has nothing to do. I think the Attorney General has to get a job for this citizen\". Malafaia also recalled that the Constitution is presented as being elaborated \"under the protection of God\", and that the prosecutor should also propose the change of the name of states such as Santa Catarina (\"St. Catherine\"), São Paulo (\"St. Paul\") and Espírito Santo (\"Holy Ghost\"), in addition to national Catholic holidays.\n\nThe secretary-general of the National Conference of Bishops of Brazil (CNBB), which is part of the Catholic Church hierarchy, Archbishop Leonardo Ulrich Steiner, said: \"We should be concerned about much more essential things. Many people will only notice the phrase after this lawsuit. This type of lawsuit is not new! The phrase will now recall the presence of God in the life of the Brazilian people\". For Dom Leonardo, the expression \"does not embarrass, but it can annoy those who say they do not believe\". \"People who live their faith, in their various expressions, certainly do not feel embarrassed, for they live on the greatness of transcendence. It's that faith is not at first worshipping a god, but relationship. If the phrase reminds of a relationship, it could be remembered that money itself must be at the service of people, especially the poor, in sharing and in solidarity. If so, God be praised!\" says the bishop.\n\nOn November 30, 2012, the Federal Court denied the Federal Public Prosecutor's request to enforce the Federal Government and the Central Bank to remove, in up to 120 days, the phrase of Brazilian real notes. In three pages of the decision, it is reported that the Public Ministry did not provide evidence that there was \"opposition to the statements inscribed on the banknote within the social sphere\". The judge pointed out that the Federal Public Ministry in São Paulo did not listen to secular or religious institutions of other denominations demonstrating opposition to the presence of the phrase in the banknotes.\n\nThe court decision said that \"the citation of God in the notes does not seem to be a targeting of the state in the life of an individual that forces him to adopt or not a certain belief\". The preliminary decision was subsequently sustained. In 2013 Federal Judge Diana Brunstein, of the Civil Court of São Paulo, denied the request made by the Federal Public Ministry to remove the expression \"God be praised\" from the real banknotes. The same judge had already denied a preliminary injunction in November 2012. The Union Attorney's office argued that the expression \"God be praised\" in real notes does not repel the secularism of the state. \"(...) The Brazilian state does not disavows the faith. On the contrary, it supports the religious value when it facilitates the practice of acts of faith professed by the population and adopts religious holidays (...)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "89028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89028", "title": "Dievturība", "text": "Dievturība\n\nDievturība is a Neopagan religious movement which claims to be a modern revival of the folk religion of the Latvians before Christianization in the 13th century. Adherents call themselves Dievturi (singular: Dievturis), literally \"Dievs' keepers\", \"people who live in harmony with Dievs\".\n\nThe Dievturi movement was founded in 1925 by Ernests Brastiņš. It was forcibly suppressed by Russian Communists in 1940, but later was revived. In 2007, approximately 650 persons were officially active members of Dievturi movement.\n\nDievturība started in 1925 and (as a reconstructionistic movement) is primarily based on Latvian folklore, old folk songs (dainas) and mythology. By necessity, modern Dievturība differs from the historical Latvian religion. For example, there is no evidence that the Latvian pagans recognized a trinity of deities; in Dievturība, Dievs, Māra and Laima are a triune godhead.\n\nErnests Brastiņš (1892–1942) was the primary force in the early development of Dievturība. He was an artist, an amateur historian, a folklorist and an archaeologist. He documented many ancient Latvian temples and castles, writing the \"Index of Mythological Notions of Latvian Dainas\". \"Dievturi Catechism\" is the main inspirational text of Dievturība.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s the movement attracted several public figures from the cultural sphere, such as the painter Jēkabs Bīne, writers Voldemārs Dambergs, Viktors Eglītis and Juris Kosa, literature historian and critic Alfrēds Goba, and the composers Jānis Norvilis and Artūrs Salaks.\n\nA Dievturība sanctuary, the Lokstenes dievturu svētnīca, was inaugurated on 6 May 2017.\n\nDievturība is essentially a pantheistic religion. Other deities are either aspects of Dievs (the universe itself, the ultimate reality), or other types of non-deified spirits. In Dievturi theology, several triumvirates of deities and concepts are recognized.\n\n\nThe difference between the \"dvēsele\" (soul) and \"velis\" (the astral body) is a fine one. The \"dvēsele\" is eternal. It comes from Dievs (god) and will return to him after the death of the \"miesa\". The \"velis\" stays near the body, gradually melting and disappearing over time similar to the concept of a ghost or the Greek \"shade\". The end of autumn and the start of winter is accepted as the time of remembrance of dead ancestors. In the dark time of autumn people gave food for their dead relatives due to the \"dying of nature\" or as a thanks gesture for a good harvest during the summer.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40176250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40176250", "title": "Domthok Monastery", "text": "Domthok Monastery\n\nDomthok Monastery is a Buddhist monastery in Yushu County, Qinghai, China. It is 60 km southeast of Gyêgu on the western bank of the Dri Chu (Yangtze River) at 32.62924, 97.53449. A footbridge crosses the river here. The monastery is affiliated with Dzongsar Monastery, south of Derge, in Garze County, Sichuan.\n\nThere are two shops, a general store run by the monks and close by another selling Tibetan medicines. Petrol can be purchased in the yard adjacent to the newly built (2011) hostel. A small Tibetan village surrounds the monastery.\n"}
{"id": "6717574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6717574", "title": "Edward J. Thomas", "text": "Edward J. Thomas\n\nEdward Joseph Thomas (July 30, 1869 – February 11, 1958) was an English classicist, librarian and author of several books on the history of Buddhism. \n\nThomas was born in Thornhill, West Yorkshire. He was the son of a gardener at Thornhill Rectory. Thomas left school and worked as a gardener for twelve years. In 1896 he enrolled and under the supervision of John Burnet obtained a master's degree in classics from University of St Andrews in 1900-1901. He studied linguistics at Emmanuel College, Cambridge and graduated from University of Cambridge in 1905. He was the curator of the University of Cambridge library for many years and was appointed Dean of the Oriental Languages ​​Department.\n\nHis works, mainly concerned with Theravada Buddhism and reflecting Western scholarship, nonetheless remain widely cited for their clarity and accuracy. \"The Life of Buddha as Legend and History\" is inevitably cited in Buddhist research. Thomas's ability as a Pali scholar and translator was noted in his time.\n\nThomas has been described as \"one of England’s most brilliant Buddhist scholars\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19049070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19049070", "title": "Florinus of Remüs", "text": "Florinus of Remüs\n\nFlorinus of Remüs (died 856 AD), also known as \"Florin, Florian of Chur, Florinus of Matsch, and Florinus of Vinschgau\", is venerated as a saint in the Catholic Church, particularly in the dioceses of Chur, Bolzano-Brixen, Vaduz, and in the Rhineland.\n\nLittle is known of his life, as there is no early \"vita\". Florinus may have been the son of an Anglo-Saxon man and Jewish woman, a convert to Christianity, who had settled at Matsch (Mazia) in the Vinschgau Valley on their way back from a pilgrimage to Rome.\n\nFlorinus received his education from a priest at Unterengadin, where he was also ordained. He then worked as a priest at Remüs (Ramosch).\n\nMiracles are attributed to him, including the turning of water into wine. After his death, numerous miracles were said to have taken place at his tomb in the parish church of Remüs.\n\nHe is called a confessor of the faith rather than a martyr. After his death, the popularity of his cult increased, and his relics were distributed to various places, including the \"Florinskirche\" at Koblenz (in 950 AD) and also Regensburg. Vaduz Cathedral and the parish church at Matsch (Mazia) are also dedicated to him. He is depicted in a stained-glass window in the cathedral at Chur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "649383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=649383", "title": "Foolishness for Christ", "text": "Foolishness for Christ\n\nFoolishness for Christ (, ) refers to behavior such as giving up all one's worldly possessions upon joining a monastic order, or to deliberate flouting of society's conventions to serve a religious purpose–particularly of Christianity. Such individuals have historically been known as both \"holy fools\" and \"blessed fools\". The term \"fool\" connotes what is perceived as feeblemindedness, and \"blessed\" or \"holy\" refers to innocence in the eyes of God.\n\nThe term \"fools for Christ\" derives from the writings of Saint Paul. Desert Fathers and other saints acted the part of Holy Fools, as have the \"yurodivy\" (or iurodstvo) of Eastern Orthodox asceticism. Fools for Christ often employ shocking and unconventional behavior to challenge accepted norms, deliver prophecies, or to mask their piety.\n\nParallels for this type of behavior exist in non-Christian traditions as well. The Avadhuta (Sanskrit), for example, the Islamic tradition of Qalandariyya and Malamatiyya Sufism and other crazy-wise mystics display similar traits. Nasreddin, of the Sufis, is also an example.\n\nCertain prophets of the Old Testament who exhibited signs of strange behaviour are considered by some scholars to be predecessors of \"Fools for Christ\". The prophet Isaiah walked naked and barefoot for about three years, predicting a forthcoming captivity in Egypt ; the prophet Ezekiel lay before a stone, which symbolized beleaguered Jerusalem, and though God instructed him to eat bread baked on human waste, ultimately he asked to use cow dung instead ; Hosea married a harlot to symbolize the infidelity of Israel before God .\n\nBy the opinion of certain scholars, these prophets were not counted as fools by their contemporaries, as they just carried out separate actions to attract people's attention and to awake their repentance.\n\nAccording to Christian ideas, \"foolishness\" included consistent rejection of worldly cares and imitating Christ, who endured mockery and humiliation from the crowd. The spiritual meaning of \"foolishness\" from the early ages of Christianity was close to unacceptance of common social rules of hypocrisy, brutality and thirst for power and gains.\n\nBy the words of Anthony the Great: \"Here comes the time, when people will behave like madmen, and if they see anybody who does not behave like that, they will rebel against him and say: 'You are mad', — because he is not like them.\"\n\nPart of the Biblical basis for it can be seen in the words of the Apostle Paul in , which famously says:\n\nAnd also:\n\nThe most famous example in the Western church is St. Francis of Assisi, whose order was known for following the teachings of Christ and walking in his footsteps. Thus, upon joining the order, Franciscans gave away all possessions and focused on preaching in the streets to the common man.\n\nSaint Juniper, an early follower of the Franciscan order, was known for taking the doctrine of the Franciscans to the extreme. Whenever anyone asked for any of his possessions, he freely gave them away, including his clothes. He once even cut off the bells from his altar-cloth and gave them to a poor woman. His fellow Franciscans had to watch him closely, and strictly forbade him from giving away his clothes. While such behaviors were embarrassing to his brothers, he was also recognized as a pure example of the Franciscan order and thus esteemed.\n\n\"The Little Flowers of Saint Francis of Assisi\", which documents the oral traditions of the Franciscans, told several stories of \"Brother Juniper\". The most famous of these is the story of how Brother Juniper cut off the foot of a pig to give it to a sick brother. Upon the sick brother's request for a pig's foot, Brother Juniper took a kitchen knife and ran into the forest, where he saw a herd of swine feeding. There, he quickly cut the foot off of one of the swine and carried it back to the brother, leaving the swine to die.\n\nThis angered the herdsman, who complained to Saint Francis. Saint Francis confronted Brother Juniper, who joyfully exclaimed, \"It is true, sweet father, that I did cut off the swine's foot. I will tell thee the reason. I went out of charity to visit the brother who is sick.\" Brother Juniper likewise explained to the angry herdsman who, seeing the \"charity, simplicity, and humility\" (Hudleston, 1953) in Brother Juniper's heart, forgave him and delivered the rest of the pig to the brothers.\n\nThe Holy Fool or \"yuródivyy\" (юродивый) is the Russian version of foolishness for Christ, a peculiar form of Eastern Orthodox asceticism. The yurodivy is a Holy Fool, one who acts intentionally foolish in the eyes of men. The term implies behaviour \"which is caused neither by mistake nor by feeble-mindedness, but is deliberate, irritating, even provocative.\"\n\nIn his book \"Holy Fools in Byzantium and Beyond\", Ivanov described \"holy fool\" as a term for a person who \"feigns insanity, pretends to be silly, or who provokes shock or outrage by his deliberate unruliness.\" He explained that such conduct qualifies as holy foolery only if the audience believes that the individual is sane, moral, and pious. The Eastern Orthodox Church holds that holy fools voluntarily take up the guise of insanity in order to conceal their perfection from the world, and thus avoid praise.\n\nSome characteristics that were commonly seen in holy fools were going around half-naked, being homeless, speaking in riddles, being believed to be clairvoyant and a prophet, and occasionally being disruptive and challenging to the point of seeming immoral (though always to make a point).\n\nIvanov argued that, unlike in the past, modern yurodivy are generally aware that they look pathetic in others’ eyes. They strive to pre-empt this contempt through exaggerated self-humiliation, and following such displays they let it be known both that their behaviors were staged and that their purpose was to disguise their superiority over their audience.\n\nFools for Christ are often given the title of Blessed (блаженный), which does not necessarily mean that the individual is less than a saint, but rather points to the blessings from God that they are believed to have acquired.\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church records Isidora Barankis of Egypt (d. 369) among the first Holy Fools. However, the term was not popularized until the coming of Symeon of Emesa, who is considered to be a patron saint of holy fools. In Greek, the term for Holy Fool is \"salos\".\n\nThe practice was recognised in the hagiography of fifth-century Byzantium, and it was extensively adopted in Muscovite Russia, probably in the 14th century. The madness of the Holy Fool was ambiguous, and could be real or simulated. He (or she) was believed to have been divinely inspired, and was therefore able to say truths which others could not, normally in the form of indirect allusions or parables. He had a particular status in regard to the Tsars, as a figure not subject to earthly control or judgement.\nThe first reported fool-for-Christ in Russia was St. Procopius (Prokopiy), who came from the lands of the Holy Roman Empire to Novgorod, then moved to Ustyug, pretending to be a fool and leading an ascetic way of life (slept naked on church-porches, prayed throughout the whole night, received food only from poor people). He was abused and beaten, but finally won respect and became venerated after his death.\n\nThe Russian Orthodox Church numbers 36 \"yurodivye\" among its saints, starting from Procopius of Ustyug, and most prominently Basil Fool for Christ, who gives his name to Saint Basil's Cathedral in Moscow. One of the best-known modern examples in the Russian Church is perhaps St Xenia of Saint Petersburg.\n\n\"Crazy for God\" is an expression sometimes used in the United States and other English speaking countries to convey a similar idea to \"Foolishness for Christ.\" It has been especially connected to the Unification Church of the United States. In \"The Way of God's Will\", a collection of sayings popular among church members, Unification Church founder Sun Myung Moon is quoted as saying: \"We leaders should leave the tradition that we have become crazy for God.\"\n\nIn 1979 Unification Church critic Christopher Edwards titled a memoir about his experiences in the six months he spent as a church member: \"Crazy for God: The nightmare of cult life.\"\n\nIn 2007, author Frank Schaeffer titled his autobiography \"Crazy for God: How I Grew Up as One of the Elect, Helped Found the Religious Right, and Lived to Take All (or Almost All) of It Back\". It tells of his upbringing as the son of a well-known evangelical minister and his later conversion to the Greek Orthodox Church.\n\nIn the same year Stephen Prothero, author and chairman of Boston University's Department of Religion, wrote in the \"Harvard Divinity Bulletin\": \"I am crazy for people who are crazy for God: people nearly as inscrutable to me as divinity, who leave wives and children to become forest-dwelling monks in Thailand, who wander naked across the belly of India in search of self-realization, who speak in tongues and take up serpents in Appalachia because the Bible says they can.\"\n\n\"On fire for God\" is an expression often used in respect of persons who are engaged in serving God in such a way that their activities reflect a 'burning' desire to fulfil their calling. This often manifests itself in what might be regarded as burning passion, such as evangelising (preaching) on the streets.\n\nOne of the more recent works in theology is \"Fools for Christ\" by Jaroslav Pelikan. Through six essays dealing with various \"fools,\" Pelikan explores the motif of fool-for-Christ in relationship to the problem of understanding the numinous:\n\nThe Holy is too great and too terrible when encountered directly for men of normal sanity to be able to contemplate it comfortably. Only those who cannot care for the consequences run the risk of the direct confrontation of the Holy. \nThere are a number of references to the yurodivy in 19th century Russian literature. The holy fool Nikolka is a character in Pushkin's play \"Boris Godunov\" and Mussorgsky's opera based on the play. In Pushkin's narrative poem \"The Bronze Horseman\", the character of Evgenii is based in the tradition of the holy fools in his confrontation with the animated statue of Peter the Great.\n\nThe yurodivy appears several times in the novels of Dostoevsky. \"The Idiot\" explores the ramifications of placing a holy fool (the compassionate and insightful epileptic Prince Myshkin) in a secular world dominated by vanity and desire. According to Joseph Frank \"though the gentlemanly and well-educated prince bears no external resemblance to these eccentric figures, he does possess their traditional gift of spiritual insight, which operates instinctively, below any level of conscious awareness or doctrinal commitment.\" In \"Demons\", the madwoman Marya Lebyadkina displays many of the attributes of the holy fool, as do the characters of Sofya Marmeladova and Lizaveta in \"Crime and Punishment\".\n\nAnother fool-for-Christ is Grisha in Tolstoy's \"Childhood. Boyhood. Youth\". Callis and Dewey described Grisha as follows:\n\nGrisha's abnormal social conduct, seizures, and rants were common behaviors amongst holy fools. The esteem expressed by adults was also common. In his autobiography, Tolstoy expressed such esteem in reaction to overhearing Grisha praying:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5695312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5695312", "title": "Francisco de Ávila", "text": "Francisco de Ávila\n\nFrancisco de Avila (1573–1647) was a South American priest and early student of native customs.\n\nAvila was born in Cuzco. He was curate or vicar in the province of Huarochiri of Peru, later curate at Huánuco, and finally Canon of the Church of La Plata (now Sucre), in Bolivia. He was one of the most active investigators of Indian rites and customs of his time. He died in Lima.\n\nIn 1608 he wrote a treatise of the \"Errors, False Gods, and Other Superstitions of the Indians of the Provinces of Huarochiri, Mama, and Chaclla\", of which only the first six chapters are known to exist and have been translated into English. It is a contribution to the knowledge of the Peruvian Indians and their lore.\n\nIn 1611 Avila wrote a report on the Indians of Huánuco in eastern Peru, of which the unpublished manuscript is extant. These works contain apologetics on the destruction of fetishes and other objects of worship, for example by Pablo José Arriaga.\n\n"}
{"id": "451846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451846", "title": "Haltija", "text": "Haltija\n\nA haltija (haltia) is a spirit, gnome, or elf-like creature in Finnish mythology that guards, helps, or protects something or somebody. The word is possibly derived from the Gothic \"*haltijar\", which referred to the original settler of a homestead—although this is not the only possible etymology. It can also be derived from the Finnish verb \"hallita\", which means 'to rule', 'to command', 'to master'.\n\nThe word is also used in modern Finnish to mean, depending on the context, holder, occupant, lord, master, owner-occupier, occupier, possessor, bearer, or owner.\n\nThere are many different kinds of haltijas. There are, for example water haltijas and forest haltijas. Even graveyards have their own haltijas (\"kalman väki\", \"death folk\").\n\nHuman settlements also have haltijas. One type is the tonttu or maan haltija (land haltija). The tonttu is the Finnish version of the Swedish tomte. The Finnish tonttu and the Swedish tomte are related to the words \"tontti\" (Finnish) and \"tomt\" (Swedish), which both mean building lot and building site. (Later, such local spirits are also referred to as a \"tomtegubbe\" [\"old man of the homestead\"] in Swedish). The kotihaltija (home elf, home gnome) is the tonttu who lives in every home. He takes care of the house, and it is important to treat him with respect. The saunatonttu lives in the sauna and protects it but also makes sure that people do not behave improperly in it. \"Joulutonttu\" is Finnish for Christmas elf. Unlike the Christmas elves in some countries, the Finnish joulutonttu doesn't have pointy ears.\n\nThere are even personal haltijas, which are protective spirits similar to angels in Christianity. One of them is called \"luonto\", which means \"nature\".\n\nIn Estonian mythology a similar being is called \"haldjas\", whereas the term used in Estonian for a holder, master, or owner-occupier is \"haldaja\".\n\nHaltija is sometimes written as \"haltia\". Nowadays this more old-fashioned spelling often refers to the elves in Tolkien's books or other fantasy literature.\n\nSome haltijas are divided into races or folks, which are called väki. This word means either \"strength/power\" or \"group/corps (of people)\" (e.g. \"väkiviina\" \"strong liquor\", \"sotaväki\" \"the military\"), of which the meaning of \"power\" is etymologically older; the meaning of \"väki\" meaning \"folk\" is the result of the anthropomorphication of abstract concepts like \"kalman väki\", \"the power of dead spirits\". There are different kind of väkis of haltijas, like veden väki (water folk) or metsän väki (forest folk). However, väki should not be simply translated to mean folk or race, because it also has another meaning at the same time: it means folk, and it means (magical) powers. Sometimes väki is more like folk, in which case it refers to a group of individual haltijas. Sometimes väki is more like magical power, and then it means the qualities of certain environments and elements, or powers that can cause or cure diseases. Usually both meanings are true at the same time. Magical powers are caused by groups of haltijas. For example, if someone gets sick while swimming, this could be caused by väki of water that become attached to a person. In this sense väki is more like a magical power of water that can make people ill, but it can also mean that very small or invisible haltija-spirits are attached to a person. However, if someone goes fishing, (s)he can ask for väki of water to bring fish by calling individual haltijas belonging to that väki by their names. In the latter case väki is understood more as a folk, but it can be seen also as a (luck bringing) magical force.\n\nSome väkis of haltijas:\n\nHaltija väkis of different environments and materials were thought to be in conflict with each other. For example, when wood is burned, it is an assault in which väki of fire is beating väki of wood. Väki of fire can be used to scare other väki away. For example, if you were made ill by väki of water, that attached to you while you were swimming, this väki and the illness could be removed in sauna, which had lots of väki of fire.\n\n"}
{"id": "1603538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1603538", "title": "Haneullim", "text": "Haneullim\n\nHaneullim or Haneulnim (하늘님 \"Heavenly King\"), also spelled Hananim (하나님) or Hanunim (하느님), Hwanin (환인) or Hanin (한인), also called Sangje (\"Highest Deity\") or Sangjenim (\"Kingly Highest Deity\"), also known simply as Haneul (\"Heaven\") or Cheon (천 \"Heaven\", in Sino-Korean), or Cheonsin (\"God of Heaven\"), is the concept of supreme God peculiar to Korean shamanism, and religions rooted in Korean shamanism (including Cheondoism and Jeungsanism). In some of these religions he is called Okhwang Sangje (\"Highest Deity the Jade Emperor\").\n\n\"Haneullim\" is etymologically explained as meaning \"source [im, in] of all being [haneul, hwan]\", indicating the absolute principle of the universe, the supreme being, or the supreme mind. According to scholars, the belief in this supreme God is at the heart of all religions in Korea, being deeply rooted in the mind of the Korean people.\n\nDangun is traditionally considered to be the son of \"Hwanin\", the \"Heavenly King\", and founder of the Korean nation. This myth is reputed to be older than that of the mother goddess. Myths similar to that of Dangun are found in Ainu and Siberian cultures.\n\nThe myth starts with prince \"Hwanung\" (\"Heavenly Prince\"), son of \"Hwanin\". The prince asked his father to grant him governance over Korea. Hwanin accepted, and Hwanung was sent to Earth bearing three Heavenly Seals and accompanied by three thousand followers. The prince arrived under the holy tree of sandalwood (\"Sintansu\" 신단수, 神檀樹) on the holy mountain, where he founded his holy city.\n\nAt the time of his reign, \"Ungnyeo\" or \"Ungnye\" (웅녀, 熊女)—who was a she-bear—and a tiger were living in a cave near the holy city, praying earnestly that their wish to become part of mankind might be fulfilled. \"Ungnyeo\" patiently endured weariness and hunger, and after twenty-one days she was transformed into a beautiful woman, while the tiger ran away for it could not tolerate the effort. The woman \"Ungnyeo\" was overjoyed, and visiting the sandalwood city she prayed that she might become the mother of a child.\n\nUngnye's wish was fulfilled, so that she became the queen and gave birth to a prince who was given the royal name of \"Dangun\", the \"Sandalwood King\". Dangun reigned as the first human king of Korea, giving to his kingdom the name of Joseon, \"Land of the Morning Calm\".\n\nDangun was the first shaman, intermediary between mankind and \"Haneullim\", to whom he worshipped and prayed on the behalf of his people. The importance of the worship of ancestors and gods reside in their being the mean of communion with the supreme God, \"Haneullim\". According to some scholars, the name \"Dangun\" is related to the Siberian \"Tengri\" (\"Heaven\"), while the bear is a symbol of the Big Dipper (i.e. Ursa Major), itself a symbol of the supreme God in many Eurasian cultures, including Chinese theological thought. Later in the myth, Dangun becomes the \"Sansin\", the \"Mountain God\" (metaphorically of civilising growth, prosperity).\n\nKorean theology has a triune idea of God expressed in the myth of Dangun, the third and fully incarnated form of \"Hwanin\". With Dangun as \"Sansin\" (\"Mountain God\"), the divine trinity of Korean religion represents the three stages of \"Haneullim\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s manifesation. \"Hwanin\" represents the transcendent source, with \"\"haneul\", \"hwan\"\" indicating \"all being\" or \"Heaven\", and \"\"im\", \"in\"\" the cause of it. \"Hwanung\", the second hypostasis of \"Hwanin\", is the god of the middle realm, between Heaven and Earth.\n\nDangun, the \"Sandalwood King\", is the god of the Earth. In the role of \"Sansin\", he represents the axle of the world around which all things spin and which links up to Heaven. In the place where Heaven incarnated, the \"holy mountain\" of civilisation was established, and the sandalwood became the \"holy tree\". The symbols of the cosmic mountain and tree are common to all shamanic experiences, as highlighted by Mircea Eliade in his studies.\n\nIn the Korean tradition, the threefold conception of divinity is also explained in terms of: God-the-Father, creator of the universe (\"Hwanin\"); God-the-Teacher, the order of nature (\"Hwanung\"); and God-the-King, the supreme God incarnated by the human king (\"Dangun\"), who governs his kingdom according to the laws of nature, granting well-being to his citizens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4797635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4797635", "title": "History of the Jews in Tilburg", "text": "History of the Jews in Tilburg\n\nThe history of the Jews in Tilburg, Netherlands, did not start until 1767, when a Jewish citizen of the town Oisterwijk was given permission to settle in Tilburg, despite objections from the city council. Several Jewish families also succeeded in settling in Tilburg soon afterwards in 1791.\n\nBecause of a growing industry more and more Jews started to settle in Tilburg. Most came from Oisterwijk, where the textile industry was going through a period of decline. In 1820, a synagogue was built. However, due to extensive growth of the community, a larger synagogue was eventually built in 1873-1874. In 1855, a cemetery was inaugurated for the Jewish community.\n\nMany of the Tilburg Jews were active in the textile industry and trade. In contrast to other Jewish communities in the so-called \"mediene\" (the Jewish communities outside the major cities in the western part of the country, such as Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague), the community did not decrease in numbers due to the favorable economic position of Tilburg.\n\nThe 1930s saw a growth of the Jewish community because of a small influx of German-Jewish refugees. After the Netherlands had been overrun by the Nazis, a separate Jewish school was established in 1941. A Jewish Council was established in the summer of 1942. Between August 1942 and April 1943, the majority of Tilburg Jews were deported and subsequently killed. A number of Jews managed to hide. The interior of the synagogue was completely destroyed. An estimated 130 Tilburg Jews were killed in the Holocaust.\n\nAfter the war the community was re-established. The synagogue was reinaugurated in 1949. It was given to the local government in 1976, after which it was given a social and cultural function. It was re-established as a synagogue for the Liberal Jewish community in 1998.\n\nIn 1981, the Liberal Jewish Community of Brabant \"Aree Hanegev\" was founded, serving Liberal Jews in the Dutch provinces of North Brabant, Limburg, Zeeland and parts of South Holland, as well as Jews from the Belgian provinces of Antwerp and Flemish Brabant.\n\nNumber of Jews in Tilburg:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4107996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4107996", "title": "Iele", "text": "Iele\n\nThe Iele are feminine mythical creatures in Romanian mythology. There are several differing descriptions of their characteristics. Often they are described as virgin fairies (\"zâne\" in Romanian), with great seductive power over men, with magic skills and attributes similar to Nymphs, Naiads and Dryads found in Greek mythology. They are also similar to the Samodivas in Bulgaria\n\nThe Iele are said to live in the sky, in forests, in caves, on isolated mountain cliffs and in marshes, and reported to have been seen bathing in the springs or at crossroads. From this point of view, the Iele are similar to the Ancient Greek Hecate, a three headed goddess of Thracian origin, who guards crossroads.\n\nThey mostly appear at night by moonlight, as dancing Horas, in secluded areas such as glades, the tops of certain trees (maples, walnut trees), ponds, river sides, crossroads or abandoned fireplaces, dancing naked, with their breasts almost covered by their disheveled hair, with bells on their ankles and carrying candles. In almost all of these instances, the Iele appear to be incorporeal. Rarely, they are dressed in chain mail coats. The effect of their specific dance, the Hora is similar to the dances of the Bacchantes.\n\nThe place where they had danced would after remain carbonized, with the grass incapable of growing on the trodden ground, and with the leaves of the surrounding trees scorched. Later, when grass would finally grow, it would have a red or dark-green color, the animals would not eat it, but instead mushrooms would thrive on it.\n\nDimitrie Cantemir describes the Iele as ‘’Nymphs of the air, in love especially with young men\". The origin of these beliefs is unknown. Incidentally, the noun \"iele\" is phonetically close to the feminine plural form of the Romanian word for \"they\". Their real names are secret and inaccessible, and are commonly replaced with nicknames based on their characteristics. The names based on epithets are: Iele, Dânse, Drăgaice, Vâlve, Iezme, Izme, Irodiţe, Rusalii, Nagode, Vântoase, Domniţe, Măiestre, Frumoase, Muşate, Fetele Codrului, Împărătesele Văzduhului, Zânioare, Sfinte de noapte, Şoimane, Mândre, Fecioare, Albe, Hale, etc. But there are also personal names which appear: Ana, Bugiana, Dumernica, Foiofia, Lacargia, Magdalina, Ruxanda, Tiranda, Trandafira, Rudeana, Ruja, Păscuţa, Cosânzeana, Orgisceana, Lemnica, Roşia, Todosia, Sandalina, Margalina, Savatina, Rujalina, etc. These names must not be used randomly, as they may be the basis for dangerous enchantments. It is believed that every witch knows nine of these pseudonyms, from which she makes combinations, and which are the basis for spells.\n\nThe Iele are said not to be solitary creatures, but gather in groups in the air, where they can fly with or without wings; they can travel with incredible speeds, either on their own, or with chariots of fire. \nThe Iele appear sometimes with bodies, at other times only as immaterial spirits. They are young and beautiful, voluptuous immortals, their frenzy causing delirium in onlookers, and with bad tempers, but not being necessarily evil. They come in groups of three or seven. This version is mostly found in Oltenia, were three Iele are considered the daughters of Alexander the Great, called Catrina, Zalina and Marina.\n\nThey are not generally considered evil genii: they resort to revenge only when they are provoked, offended, seen while they dance, when people step on the trodden ground left behind by their dance, sleep under a tree which the Iele consider as their property, drink from the springs or wells used by them. Terrible punishments are inflicted upon the ones who refuse their invitation to dance, or the ones who mimic their movements. The one who randomly hears their songs becomes instantly mute. A main characteristic is their beautiful voices which are used to enchant their listeners, just like the Sirens from ancient Greek mythology. Invisible to humans, there are however certain moments when they can be seen by mortals, such as when they dance at night. When this happens, they abduct the victim, punishing the \"guilty\" one with magical spells, after they previously caused him to fall into sleep with the sounds and the vertigo of the frenetic Hora, which they dance around their victim, who is abducted, to disappear forever without a trace. \nThe Iele are also believed to be agents of revenge for God or of the Devil, having the right to avenge in the name of their employers. When they are called upon to act, they hound their victims into the center of their dance, until they die in a furor of madness or torment. In this hypostasis, the Iele are similar to the Ancient Greek Erinyes and the Roman Furies.\n\nTo please the Iele, people dedicated festival days to them: the Rusaliile, the Stratul, the Sfredelul or Bulciul Rusaliilor, the nine days after the Easter, the Marina etc. Anyone not respecting these holidays was said to suffer the revenge of the Iele: men and women who work during these days would be lifted in spinning vertigo, people and cattle would suffer mysterious deaths or become paralyzed and crippled, hail would fall, rivers would flood, trees would wither, and houses would catch fire.\n\nPeople also invented cures against the Iele, either preventive or exorcistic in nature: garlic and mugwort worn around the waist, in the bosom, or hung from the hat; or hanging the skull of a horse on a pole in front of the house. The most important cure is the dance of Călușari. This custom was the subject of episode of the popular TV series, The X-Files (see The X-Files (season 2))\n\nThe same common Indo-European mythological base is suggested by the close resemblance with the Nordic Elves, youthful feminine humanoid spirits of great beauty living in forests and other natural places, underground, or in wells and springs; having as a sacred tree the same maple tree; and with magical powers, such as having the ability to cast spells with their circle dances. The elves also leave a kind of circle where they had danced, the \"älvdanser\" (\"elf dances\") or \"älvringar\" (\"elf circles\"). Typically, this circle also consisted of a ring of small mushrooms. Arguably, Iele are the Romanian equivalent of the fairies of other cultures, like the nymphs of Greek and Roman mythology, the vili from Slavic mythology, and the Irish sídhe.\n\nThere is some discussion on the topic that an episode of \"Destination Truth\"; which had a follow up episode may have encountered Iele. The Romanian forest episode, in the episode they believed they were encountering ghosts or aliens. Some viewers went to the online boards for the show discussing that the events and behavior closely tied with the Iele.\n\n"}
{"id": "78215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78215", "title": "Incarnation", "text": "Incarnation\n\nIncarnation literally means \"embodied in flesh\" or \"taking on flesh\". It refers to the conception and birth of a sentient being who is the material manifestation of an entity, god or force whose original nature is immaterial. In its religious context the word is used to mean the descent from Heaven of a god, deity, or divine being in human/animal form on Earth.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, God is not seen to be incarnated into this world and is not seen to be part of creation as he cannot be divided and does not descend to the condition of his creatures. The Manifestations of God are also not seen as an incarnation of God, but are instead understood to be like a perfect mirror reflecting the attributes of God onto this material world.\n\nBuddhism is a non-theistic religion, it denies the concept of a creator god or any incarnation of a creator god. Buddhism, however, does teach the rebirth doctrine and asserts that living beings are reborn, endlessly, reincarnating as Devas (gods), demi-gods, human beings, animals, hungry ghosts or hellish beings, in a cycle of \"samsara\" that stops only for those who reach nirvana (nibbana).\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, an enlightened spiritual teacher (lama) is believed to reincarnate, and is called a \"tulku\". According to Tulku Thondup, there are three main types of tulkus. They are the emanations of buddhas, the manifestations of highly accomplished adepts, and rebirths of highly virtuous teachers or spiritual friends. There are also authentic secondary types as well which include unrecognized tulkus, blessed tulkus, and tulkus fallen from the path.\n\nLogos-Sarx-Schema uses to explain incarnation of the Son of God. The incarnation of Christ is a central Christian doctrine that God became flesh, assumed a human nature, and became a man in the form of Jesus, the Son of God and the second person of the Trinity. This foundational Christian position holds that the divine nature of the Son of God was perfectly united with human nature in one divine Person, Jesus, making him both truly God and truly man. The theological term for this is hypostatic union: the Second Person of the Trinity, God the Son, became flesh when he was miraculously conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary. Biblical passages traditionally referenced in connection with the doctrine of the Incarnation include , , and .\nIn Hinduism, incarnation refers to its rebirth doctrine, and in its theistic traditions to \"avatar\". Avatar literally means \"descent, alight, to make one's appearance\", and refers to the embodiment of the essence of a superhuman being or a deity in another form. The word also implies \"to overcome, to remove, to bring down, to cross something\". In Hindu traditions, the \"crossing or coming down\" is symbolism, states Daniel Bassuk, of the divine descent from \"eternity into the temporal realm, from unconditioned to the conditioned, from infinitude to finitude\". An avatar, states Justin Edwards Abbott, is a \"saguna\" (with form, attributes) embodiment of the \"nirguna\" Brahman or Atman (soul).\n\nNeither the Vedas nor the Principal Upanishads ever mentions the word \"avatar\" as a noun. The verb roots and form, such as \"avatarana\", do appear in ancient post-Vedic Hindu texts, but as \"action of descending\", but not as an incarnated person (avatara). The related verb \"avatarana\" is, states Paul Hacker, used with double meaning, one as action of the divine descending, another as \"laying down the burden of man\" suffering from the forces of evil.\n\nThe term is most commonly found in the context of the Hindu god Vishnu. The earliest mention of Vishnu manifested in a human form to empower the good and fight against evil, uses other terms such as the word \"sambhavāmi\" in verse 4.6 and the word \"tanu\" in verse 9.11 of the Bhagavad Gita, as well as other words such as \"akriti\" and \"rupa\" elsewhere. It is in medieval era texts, those composed after the sixth century CE, that the noun version of avatar appears, where it means embodiment of a deity. The incarnation idea proliferates thereafter, in the Puranic stories for many deities, and with ideas such as \"ansha-avatar\" or partial embodiments.\n\nWhile Avatars of other deities such as Ganesha and Shiva are also mentioned in medieval Hindu texts, this is minor and occasional. The incarnation doctrine is one of the important differences between Vaishnavism and Shaivism traditions of Hinduism.\n\nThe translation of avatar as \"incarnation\" has been questioned by Christian theologists, who state that an incarnation is in flesh and imperfect, while avatar is mythical and perfect. The theological concept of Christ as an incarnation, as found in Christology, presents the Christian concept of incarnation. This, state Oduyoye and Vroom, is different from the Hindu concept of avatar because avatars in Hinduism are unreal and is similar to Docetism. Sheth disagrees and states that this claim is an incorrect understanding of the Hindu concept of avatar. Avatars are true embodiments of spiritual perfection, one driven by noble goals, in Hindu traditions such as Vaishnavism.\n\nMainstream Islam completely rejects the doctrine of the incarnation of God in any form, as the concept is defined as \"shirk\". In mainstream Islam God is one and \"neither begets nor is begotten\".\n\nMainstream Judaism totally rejects any doctrine of an incarnation of God and absolutely rejects any concept of an incarnation of God in any form. However, some Hasidim believe in a somewhat similar concept. Menachem Mendel Schneerson, a prominent Hasidic leader, said that the \"Rebbe\" is God's essence itself put into a body of a \"tzadik\".\n\nSerer religion rejects any notion of an incarnation or manifestation of \"Roog\" (the supreme deity in Serer religion), called Koox among the Cangin. However, the reincarnation (\"ciiɗ\") of the ancient Serer saints and ancestral spirits, called \"Pangool\", is a well held principle in Serer religion. These Pangool (singular : \"Fangool\") act as intermediaries between the living world and the Devine. When the Serers speak of incarnation, it is these Pangool they refer to, who are themselves holy by virtue of their intercession with the Divine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54682039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54682039", "title": "Iranian Spiritual Assembly", "text": "Iranian Spiritual Assembly\n\nAs all other National Spiritual Assemblies, the Iranian Spiritual Assembly has its clergy formation defined by Baha'u'llah in the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\", and its minimum number of members is 9. The first official clerical assembly was held in Tehran in 1897 under the supervision of Abdu'l - Bahá and by Haji Akhund of Ayadyan Amrullah . Due to the persecution of the Baha'is of Iran, the congregation assumed both local and national responsibilities. The Iranian Spiritual Assembly was declared illegal in 1983 by the Islamic Republic of Iran in the aftermath of the revolution. Subsequently, the assemblage of the Iranian companions replaced responsibility for the administration of the Baha'i community.\n\nFrom the beginning of the revolution to the middle of 1980, members of the National Spiritual Assembly were continually harassed. In March 1358, Dr. Hussein Naji, a member of the National Spiritual Assembly, sent a telegram to Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, President Abolhassan Banisadr, the Revolutionary Court Attorney General, Ayatollah Ali Ghodousi, and the Central Organization of the Medical System, in which several attacks on his residential home were armed And described his wife's arrest. He asked for advice on how to stop these violations. The complaint was not much considered. Each nine members of the National Spiritual Assembly, along with two Continental Consultative assistants, were arrested at a meeting of the National Spiritual Assembly at a private home, arrested by Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps members on August 30, 1980, without legal due diligence. The families of the disappeared have persistently pursued the case since the disappearance of these individuals by Bahman Bahman in 1359, during a meeting with the Attorney General, Ayatollah Ghodousi, the head of the judiciary, Ayatollah Mohammad Beheshti and the Speaker of the Majles, Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. In a meeting on September 19, 1980, Rafsanjani confirmed that he had ordered the arrest of eleven Baha'is, but said that members of the family of the prisoners could not meet with them to complete the interrogation process. However, on March 17, 1359, Rafsanjani changed his mind and argued that the government had not arrested any members of the clerical organization, and instead attributed the disappearance of the Baha'is as unacceptably to an independent group.\n\nThe fate of nine members of the National Spiritual Assembly and two undeclared continental council assistants remain. Although there are reports that these people have been detained in Evin Prison for a short time, no news of them has been obtained since September 7, 1980, and now all are considered deceased.\n\nShortly after the disappearance of the members of the first national clerical assembly, Bahá'ís gathered to elect new members of the National Spiritual Assembly. The members of the second National Spiritual Assembly were all aware that they might have the fate of their predecessors.\n\nThe authorities quickly put the new members of the circle at the center of attention. Amnesty International reported that on December 22, 1981, Iranian authorities arrested eight members of nine members of the National Spiritual Assembly at the house of the believer.\n\nThe arrested were: Mehdi Amin Amin, Jalal Azizi, Ezatollah Foroughi, Jinous Nemat Mahmoudi, Mahmoud Majzoub, Ghost Allah Rouhani, Cyrus Roshani and Kamran Samimi. Mr. Momen and Farideh Samimi, the wife of Kamran Samimi, the secretary of the circle, who helped with the reception, were also arrested. Amnesty International issued a memorandum of urgent response and demanded a protest by post and telegram directly to the Supreme Court Chief Justice, Abdul-Karim Mousavi Ardebili, Deputy Prime Minister, Mir-Hossein Mousavi and the Attorney General, Mehdi Rabbani Ameshchi, and requested information about the whereabouts of the detainees. , Was. Amnesty International also called for protests to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Interior Minister.\n\nOn December 6, 1981, eight of the nine members of the second Iranian national clerical assembly were executed without trial. After the initial denial of these executions, Ayatollah Ardabili, the new head of the judiciary, eventually announced that eight of Baha'is were executed for spying for foreign powers. Ardebili told the Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) that no religious motive was the reason for the executions. Late that same month, Ayatollah Mohammadi Gilani, head of the Revolutionary Courts of the Center, justified the death of the members of the second national clerical assembly as saying that membership in the Baha'i community was synonymous with spying for colonial organizations.\n\nAlthough the executions were not officially announced, the Baha'is succeeded in discovering the burial places of the bodies of the Kafrīn Khavaran cemetery. Some bodies were buried in mass. The daughter of Jonas Nemat Mahmoudi, reported that some families were forced to pay the first cost of bullets spent on executions in order to know where the bodies of their loved ones were.\n\nOn September 7, 1982, the Revolutionary Prosecutor General, Seyyed Hossein Mousavi Tabrizi, banned all Baha'i community activities in Iran. It ordered the dissolution of the third national clerical assembly and about 400 local clerical congresses. Membership in any organization or activity that encourages religion for non-Baha'is was severely prohibited. The government justified the issuance of this order by claiming that the Baha'i militants and conspirators were involved in spying activities.\n\nIn an interview, the government affiliate, Mousavi Tabrizi, the Attorney General of the Revolution, said: \"They spy on others for provoking and disrupting certain things ... These issues have prompted us to immediately announce that all activities Collective and organizational forms of Baha'is are prohibited in Iran and so far prohibited, and the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the constitution have not recognized these \"\n\nBefore the National Spiritual Assembly accepted the ban, he wrote to Iranian leaders in rejecting the allegations against the government. This letter points to harassment of Baha'is in the Islamic Republic and called on the Iranian people, the Islamic government and God to recognize their human rights. This letter was the last act of the National Spiritual Assembly before their rights as Iranian citizens and as human beings of voluntary dissolution.\n\nDespite the voluntary dissolution, authorities of the Islamic Republic of Iran continued to harass and terrorize the former members of the national and local clerical and other administrative authorities throughout Iran, as well as those who signed the open letter in defense of the Baha'is. In mid-1362, more than 500 Baha'is, most of whom were former members of the congregation or associated with these members, were arrested without charge.\n\nOver time, seven members of the 3rd National Spiritual Assembly were arrested and eventually executed by the government.\n\nAll Baha'i elected and appointed institutions in Iran were banned from 1983 (1362), and most members of the three clerics murdered the Baha'i Faith. In the absence of these circles, a temporary assembly called \"Fellowship of Iran\" was formed with full knowledge of the government to address the early affairs of the 300-member community of Baha'is in Iran.\n\nSince 1983, all government officials have been aware of the existence of this group. In fact, in all these years, government officials regularly, though often informally, have been in contact with members of the delegation. The Baha'i community claims that it is said that Iranian supporters are an illegal group.\n\nThe last members of this group who have been responsible for managing the Baha'i community in Iran are:\n\n\nSix of them were arrested on May 14, 2008 at their home. The seventh, before the other members, was arrested on March 5, 2008 (March 15, 2007) in Mashhad. At present, the women of Fariba Kamal Abadi and Mahvash Sabet are in Evin Prison and gentlemen Naeemi, Khanjani, Tavakoli, Rezaei and Tirafam are in the Rajaishahr prison of Karaj.\n\n"}
{"id": "12641486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12641486", "title": "Islam in Palestine", "text": "Islam in Palestine\n\nIslam is a major religion in Palestine, being the religion of the majority of the Palestinian population. Muslims comprise 80-85% of the population of the West Bank, when including Israeli settlers, and 99% of the population of the Gaza Strip. Palestinian Muslims primarily practice Shafi'i Islam, which is a branch of Sunni Islam.\n\nIslam was brought to the region of Palestine during the Early Muslim conquests of the 7th century, when armies of the Rashidun Caliphate under the leadership of ʿUmar ibn al-Khattāb defeated the armies of Persia and the armies of the Byzantine Empire and conquered Persia, Mesopotamia, Shaam, Egypt, North Africa and Spain..\n\nThe Muslim Arab army attacked Jerusalem, held by the Byzantine Romans, in November, 636. For four months the siege continued. Ultimately, the Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem, Sophronius, agreed to surrender Jerusalem to Caliph Umar in person. Caliph Umar, then at Medina, agreed to these terms and traveled to Jerusalem to sign the capitulation in the spring of 637. Sophronius also negotiated a pact with Caliph Umar, known as the Umariyya Covenant or Covenant of Omar, allowing for religious freedom for Christians in exchange for \"jizyah\" (), a tax to be paid by conquered non-Muslims, called \"dhimmis.\" Under Muslim Rule, the Christian and Jewish population of Jerusalem in this period enjoyed the usual tolerance given to non-Muslim theists.\nHaving accepted the surrender, Caliph Umar then entered Jerusalem with Sophronius \"and courteously discoursed with the patriarch concerning its religious antiquities\". When the hour for his prayer came, Umar was in the Anastasis, but refused to pray there, lest in the future the Muslims should use that as an excuse to break the treaty and confiscate the church. The Mosque of Omar, opposite the doors of the Anastasis, with the tall minaret, is known as the place to which he retired for his prayer.\n\nJerusalem is Islam's third holiest city after Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia. Although the Koran does not clarify from where exactly Muhammad ascended to Heaven, the \"Haram al Sharif\" (Temple Mount) of Jerusalem is believed by Muslims to be the location. According to the tradition, during a single night around the year 621 CE, the Islamic prophet Muhammad was carried by his mythological steed \"al-Burāq\" from Mecca to the Temple Mount in Jerusalem. According to the tradition, from there he ascended to heaven where he spoke with Allah. This widely accepted Islamic belief is a source of the religious and spiritual importance of the Dome of the Rock and the adjacent al-Aqsa Mosque.\n\nAccording to the historian James William Parkes, during the first century after the Arab conquest (640–740), the caliph and governors of Syria and the Holy Land ruled entirely over Christian and Jewish subjects. He further states that apart from the Bedouin in the earliest days, the only Arabs west of the Jordan were the garrisons.\n\nBishop Arculf, whose account of his pilgrimage to the Holy Land in the 7th century, De Locis Sanctis, written down by the monk Adamnan, described reasonably pleasant living conditions of Christians in Palestine in the first period of Muslim rule. The caliphs of Damascus (661–750) were tolerant princes who were on generally good terms with their Christian subjects. Many Christians (e.g. St. John Damascene) held important offices at their court. The Abbasid caliphs at Baghdad (753–1242), as long as they ruled Syria, were also tolerant of the Christians. Harun Abu-Ja-'afar, (786–809) sent the keys of the Holy Sepulchre to Charlemagne, who built a hospice for Latin pilgrims near the shrine.\n\nIslam became the majority religion in Palestine in the 9th century, with acculturation of the locals into Arab identity and when Arabic became the \"lingua franca\". In the Middle East and North Africa regions in general and the region of Palestine in particular, indigenous peoples in various regions who until then spoke mostly Greek, Aramaic-Syriac, Coptic and Berber, began adopting the Arabic language and the culture associated with it.\n\nRival dynasties and revolutions led to the eventual disunion of the Muslim world. During the 9th century, Palestine was conquered by the Fatimid dynasty, centered in Egypt. During that time the region of Palestine became again the center of violent disputes followed by wars, since enemies of the Fatimid dynasty attempted to conquer the region. At that time, the Byzantine Empire continued trying to recapture the territories they previously lost to the Muslims, including Jerusalem. The Christian inhabitants of Jerusalem, who expressed their support to the Byzantine Empire were killed by the Muslim authorities. Palestine once again became a battleground as the various enemies of the Fatimids attacked. At the same time, the Byzantine Romans continued to attempt to regain their lost territories, including Jerusalem. Christians in Jerusalem who sided with the Romans were put to death for high treason by the ruling Muslims. In 969, the Patriarch of Jerusalem, John VII, was put to death for treasonable correspondence with the Romans.\n\nDuring the Fatimid era, the cities of Jerusalem and Hebron became prime destinations for Sufi wayfarers. The creation of locally rooted Sufi-inspired communities and institutions between 1000 and 1250 were part and parcel of the conversion to Islam.\n\nThe sixth Fatimid caliph, Caliph Al-Hakim (996–1021), who was believed to be \"God made manifest\" by the Druze, destroyed the Holy Sepulchre in 1009. This powerful provocation started the near 90-year preparation towards the First Crusade.\n\nThroughout the majority of the era Muslim rule existed in the region of Palestine, except for the Crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem (1099–1291). Due to the growing importance of Jerusalem in the Muslim world, the tolerance towards the other faiths began to fade. The Christians and the Jews in Palestine were persecuted and many Churches and Synagogues were destroyed. This trend peaked in 1009 AD when Caliph al Hakim of the Fatimid dynasty, destroyed also the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem. This provocation ignited enormous rage in the Christian world, which led to the Crusades from Europe to the Holy Land.\n\nIn 1099, the Christian Crusaders, under the support of the Roman Catholic Church, launched the First Crusade campaign with the aims of regaining control of Jerusalem from the Islamic Empire, and helping the Byzantine Empire fight the Seljuk Turks. During the campaign, the Crusaders launched an assault on the city of Jerusalem, captured it in July 1099, massacring many of the city's Muslim and Jewish inhabitants, and established the first Christian Kingdom of Jerusalem. The Crusaders transformed the Dome of the Rock into the \"Shrine of the Lord\" (Templum Domini) and the Al-Aqsa mosque into the \"Hall of Solomon\" (Templum Solomonis). The local Muslim reaction was to try to find an accommodation with the Crusaders. During this era, the larger Muslim world looked upon the setbacks in Jerusalem with indifference.\n\nIn 1187, the Ayyubid Sultan Salah ad-Din led his armies to win a great victory over the Crusaders in the Battle of Hattin. As a direct result of the battle, Islamic forces once again became the dominant power in the region, re-conquering Jerusalem and several other Crusader-held cities. In 1189, the first lodge for Sufi ascetics was established at the Al-Khanqah al-Salahiyya Mosque in Jerusalem, which had been a palace of the Latin Patriarch prior to the reconquest of the city.\n\nThe Christian defeat led to a Third Crusade aimed to regain the lost territories in the Holy Land. Richard I of England (Richard the Lionheart) launched a siege upon the city of Acre, after which he conquered the city and killed 3,000 Muslims. After a second victory won in the Battle of Arsuf, the Crusaders arrived to Jerusalem, but withdrew without trying to conquer the city. Following another military clash in Jaffa, which wasn't won by either side, Saladin and Richard the Lionheart signed the Treaty of Ramla in June 1192. Under the terms of the agreement, Jerusalem would remain under Muslim control but the city would be open to Christian pilgrims. The treaty reduced the Latin Kingdom to a strip along the coast from Tyre to Jaffa.\n\nIn 1250, the Ayyubid Egyptian dynasty was overthrown by slave (\"Mamluk\") regiments, and a new dynasty - the Mamluks - was born. On September 3, 1260, at the Battle of Ain Jalut held in the Jezreel Valley, the Muslim Egyptian Mamluks under Baibars defeated the Mongols and stopped their advance. His successor Al-Ashraf Khalil completed the victory by sweeping the last of the Crusaders out of Palestine.\n\nIn 1291, the forces of the Mamluk Sultan of Egypt al-Ashraf Khalil forced a long siege upon the city of Acre, which was the final Christian landhold in the Holy Land. The Mamluks captured the city on May 18, 1291, killing most of the Christian local inhabitants, thus ending the second Crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem.\n\nThe Mamluks were to rule Palestine for the following two centuries (1291-1516). The Muslim population became the majority, and many Muslim shrines were built such as Maqam al-Nabi Yamin, Maqam al-Nabi Musa, Maqam al-Nabi Rubin and many more shrines that Muslims described as a burial sites of Prophets, Sahabas and even what they considered holy Muslim martyrs from Crusader and pre-Crusader times. Some historians say that the shrines were built to make a good strategic positions for Muslims (for example Nabi Musa was built on the road from Jerusalem to Jericho).\n\nThe Mamluks, ruling from Damascus, brought some prosperity to the area, particularly to Jerusalem, with an extensive programme involving the building of schools, hospices for pilgrims, the construction of Islamic colleges and the renovation of mosques. Mujir al-Din's extensive writing about 15th century Jerusalem documents the consolidation and expansion of Islamic sites in the Mamluk era.\n\nThe ascendency of the Burji over the Bahri Mamluks, together with recurrent droughts, plagues and pestilence like the Black Death and taxation to cover the costs of wars against Crusaders and Mongols (the last of which was \"Tamurlane's horde\") brought about both growing insecurity and economic decline. By the end of their reign, with the decay of internal control and massive population losses due to plagues, Bedouins moved in to take advantage of the decline in defenses, and farmers abandoned their lands. They sacked Ramla in 1481 and annihilated a Mamluk army that had been raised in Gaza to repel them. By the end of the 15th century, Jerusalem's population amounted to approximately 10,000, mostly Muslims, with roughly 1,000 Christians and 400 Jews.\n\nOn August 24, 1516, at the Battle of Marj Dabiq, the Ottoman Empire forces defeated the Mamluk sultanate forces and thus the Ottomans became the new rulers of the Levant. On October 28 they defeated the Mamluk forces once more in the Battle of Yaunis Khan and they annexed the region of Palestine. By December of that year the entire region of Palestine was conquered by the Ottoman Empire. As a result of the Ottoman advance during the reign of Selim I, the Sunni Ottoman Turks occupied the historic region of Palestine. Their leadership reinforced and ensured the centrality and importance of Islam as the dominant religion in the region. Swamps with the risk of malaria made it difficult to settle and farm on the coastal plains and in the valleys throughout most of the Ottoman era.\n\nIn 1834, a popular uprising erupted against the rule of Wāli Muhammad Ali. The main cause of the uprising was indignation at being drafted by the Egyptian army. At first the rebels managed to take over many cities, including Nablus, Jerusalem and Hebron. In response, Egyptian military leader Ibrahim Pasha commanded an army force of 40,000 people against the rebels and managed to put an end to the rebellion, conquering Gaza, Ramleh, Jaffa, Haifa, Jerusalem and Acre. Ibrahim Pasha's conquests had a significant demographic change as the region of Palestine had an influx of Muslim tribal immigrants. Ibrahim Pasha, in wresting control of Palestine from the Ottoman Empire, clashed with the regional ambitions of the European Great Powers and, in order to assuage their unease, he reversed Ottoman policy and opened the country up to both foreigners and non-Muslim populations. Despite the brevity of Egyptian overlordship, since the great powers restored the fortunes of the Ottomans and their sovereignty over Palestine, the long term effect was to lay the groundwork for the development of extensive European activities and interests in Palestine.\n\nIn 1860, the Mosque of Omar was built in the Christian city of Bethlehem. It is the only mosque in Bethlehem's old city.\n\nIn 1917, at the end of the First World War, the British Empire conquered the region of Palestine from the Ottoman Empire. The United Kingdom was granted control of Palestine by the Versailles Peace Conference which established the League of Nations in 1919 and appointed Herbert Samuel, a former Postmaster General in the British cabinet, who was instrumental in drafting the Balfour Declaration, as its first High Commissioner in Palestine. The British occupation of the region brought an end to hundreds of years of successive Muslim rule in the region of Palestine.\n\nThe gradual increase in the number of Jews in Palestine led to the development of a proto-Arab-Palestinian national movement, influenced and inspired by Muslim leader and Mufti of Jerusalem Haj Amin al-Husseini. Zionism, the ideology advocating the creation of a Jewish state in Palestine, was increasingly identified as a threat by the Muslim-Arab population in Palestine. This anti-Zionist trend became linked to a fierce anti-British resistance (like in the 1920 Palestine riots and during the 1936–39 Arab Revolt).\n\nThe High Commissioner of Palestine, Herbert Samuel, issued an order in December 1921 establishing a Supreme Muslim Council with authority over all the Muslim waqfs and sharia courts in Palestine. In addition, in 1922 the British authorities appointed Haj Amin al-Husseini as the Mufti of Jerusalem. Until the 1936–39 Arab revolt in Palestine took place, the Council operated as the Governing body of the Arab community under the British Mandate, and co-operated with the British government in Palestine. All along its operation, the Supreme Muslim Council advocated an active resistance against the Jewish \"Yishuv\", supporting the Arab underground anti-British movements in the country.\n\nOn May 14, 1948, one day before the end of the British Mandate of Palestine, the leaders of the Jewish community in Palestine led by prime minister David Ben-Gurion, made a declaration of independence, and the state of Israel was established. Contingents of Egyptian, Syrian, Jordanian, and Iraqi armies invaded Israel, thus starting the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. The nascent Israeli Defense Force repulsed the Arab nations from part of the occupied territories, thus extending its borders beyond the original UNSCOP partition. By December 1948, Israel controlled most of the portion of Mandate Palestine west of the Jordan River. The remainder of the Mandate consisted of Jordan, the area that came to be called the West Bank (occupied by Jordan), and the Gaza Strip (occupied by Egypt). Prior to and during this conflict, 700,000 Palestinians Arabs fled their original lands to become Palestinian refugees, in part, due to a promise from Arab leaders that they would be able to return when the war is won.\n\nThe British transferred the symbolic Islamic governance of the land to the Hashemites based in Jordan, and not to the House of Saud. The Hashemites thus became the official guardians of the Islamic holy places of Jerusalem and the areas around it. Following the Jordanian occupation of the West Bank during the war, King Abdullah I of Jordan removed Amin al-Husayni as Grand Mufti and appointed Sheikh Hussam ad-Din Jarallah as the new Grand Mufti of Jerusalem on 20 December 1948. The Supreme Muslim Council was eventually disbanded in 1951 by the Jordanian authorities. On July 20, 1951 king Abdullah of Jordan was assassinated while visiting the Al Aqsa Mosque. The assassination was carried out by a Palestinian from the Husseini clan. The Palestinian gunman, motivated by fears that king Abdullah would make a separate peace with Israel, fired three fatal bullets into the King's head and chest.\n\nAfter the conquest of the Temple Mount during the Six-Day War, the Chief Israeli Rabbinate announced that Jewish people are forbidden of entering the Temple Mount. Since 1967, Israel controls the security on the Temple Mount, but the Muslim Waqf controls administrative matters, taking responsibility for the conduct of Islamic affairs just as it did during the Jordanian occupation.\n\nToday Islam is a prominent religion in both Gaza and the West Bank. Most of the population in the State of Palestine are Muslims (80% in the West Bank and 99% in the Gaza Strip). Palestinian Muslims primarily practice Shafi'i Islam, which is a branch of Sunni Islam.\n\nFrom 1923 to 1948, there were seven villages in Mandatory Palestine for which the population was predominantly Shia Muslim (also known as \"Metawali\"). They were Tarbikha, Saliha, Malkiyeh, Nabi Yusha, Qadas, Hunin, and Abil al-Qamh. These villages were transferred from the French to the British sphere as a result of the border agreement of 1923. All of them were depopulated during the 1948 Arab-Israeli War and their former locations are now in northern Israel. The 1931 census counted 4,100 \"Metawalis\" in Palestine.\n\nSince 1979, due to Iran's influence, some Palestinian Sunnis converted to Shia Islam. Israeli Haaretz reported in 2012 that Hamas' fear of growing Iranian influence in Gaza caused the organization to crackdown on Shiite organizations, including charities. Nevertheless, becoming Shiite is a growing trend in the Gaza Strip. Hundreds of Sunnis, both Islamic Jihad activists and ordinary people, are known to have converted. The Sabireen Movement was created in 2014 by some Shi’ites that left the Islamic Jihad.\n\nAhmadiyya is a small sect of Islam in Palestine. The community, which is not recognized as genuine Islamic by mainstream Muslims, faces persecution and experiences matrimonial restrictions imposed by local Sharia courts. Although no estimates are available, reports suggest that there may be \"dozens\" of Palestinian Ahmadi Muslims in the West Bank.\n\n"}
{"id": "9802638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9802638", "title": "Juan Carrasco (apologist)", "text": "Juan Carrasco (apologist)\n\nJuan Carrasco (died c. 1670) was an apologist, of Marrano parentage. He was born in Madrid and is sometimes called Carrasco of Madrid. \n\nCarrasco had first been an Augustin friar at Burgos and an excellent preacher. Later, on a journey to Rome, he became a convert to Judaism at Livorno. He was familiar with the writings of Nahmanides, Isaac Abravanel, and others, and while in Holland (probably at Amsterdam, where he was circumcised) he wrote in Spanish his \"Apology of Judaism.\" This work was published at Nodriza (The Hague) in 1633, and was later incorporated in the \"Coleccion de Reformadores Españoles,\" published by Benjamin Wiffen, who believed Carrasco to have been a Protestant.\n"}
{"id": "1899665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899665", "title": "Karshvar", "text": "Karshvar\n\nSee also Jambudvipa.\n\nIn the Avesta, reference is made to seven karshvar (\"karšvrə\" < Modern Persian \"keshvar\"), climes or zones, organizing the world map into a seven-storied ziggurat representing the cosmic mountain. The world is referred to as the \"haft keshvar\". The word has also been translated as \"region\", \"state\" or \"continent\". \n\nThe Avesta describes the karshvar as superimposed concentric circles one above the other, with increasing size. These are separated by waters, mountains or forests.\n\nThe story of the creation of these seven regions is told in Bundahishn when \"rain first fell upon the earth\". Man lives in the karshvar Hvaniratha. Hvaniratha is believed to be \"central one\" and whose size was as large as all others together.The karshvar Hvaniratha is where \"peak of Hara\" (Alburz) had \"grown from the roots of Elburz mountains\". \n\nSufi traditions postulate an eighth clime, the \"heavenly Earth\" or \"cosmic North\". \n\nIn Theosophy, according to H. P. Blavatsky (\"The Devil's Own\", 1891), Ahura is interpreted as a generic name for the sevenfold Deity, the Ruler of the Seven Worlds, and Hvaniratha is the middle plane (the fourth of seven), corresponding to Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "28376656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28376656", "title": "Kegare", "text": "Kegare\n\n\"Kegare\" is not a form of moral judgment, but rather a spontaneous reaction to amoral natural forces. Whether the defiling was caused by a deliberate act, as for example in the case of a crime, or by an external event, such as illness or death, is secondary. It is therefore not an equivalent of sin.\n\nThe concept of \"kegare\" from death still has considerable force within Japanese society, even during Buddhist funerals. Death and everything having to do with it are seen as a primary source of defilement.\n\nThis is why, after the death of one of its members, a family will not send to friends and relatives the usual postcards with seasonal greetings during summer and winter, replacing them with letters of excuses. Those who attend a Buddhist funeral receive a small bag of salt to purify themselves before they return to their homes, in order to avoid bringing \"kegare\" to their families.\n\nThe family's \"kami\" must be protected as much as possible from contact with death, blood, and disease. A still common consequence of this is the habit to give up the traditional New Year visit (\"hatsumōde\") to a Shinto shrine if a death in the family has occurred within the last year.\n\nShinto priests (the \"kannushi\") are expected to pay particular attention to avoid this kind of \"kegare\", and must be careful to deal correctly with death and disease. Given how important dealing with death is in religion, this strong death taboo cannot have been part of kami worship from the beginning. The exclusion of death from religious rites became for the first time possible when another religion, Buddhism, could take charge of it.\n\n"}
{"id": "49889367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49889367", "title": "Linda Gazzera", "text": "Linda Gazzera\n\nLinda Gazzera (1890-1932) was an Italian spiritualist medium.\n\nDuring 1908-1910, Gazzera was investigated in a series of séances by the spiritualist Enrico Imoda who endorsed her alleged materializations as genuine. Photographs were taken, they were later published in a posthumous book entitled \"Fotografie di Fantasmi\" in 1912. French psychical researcher Guillaume de Fontenay in an afterword for the book cast doubt on the authenticity of the photographs, noting that the materializations looked dubious and two-dimensional with suspicious shadows.\n\nSkeptical author Joseph McCabe has written that Gazzera was exposed as a fraud in 1911. According to McCabe \"Her materializations and tricks were simple. She brought her birds and flowers and muslin and masks (or pictures) in her hair (which was largely false, and never examined) and her under-clothing, and she, by a common trick, released her hands and feet from control to manipulate them.\"\n"}
{"id": "3933311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3933311", "title": "Lindholm amulet", "text": "Lindholm amulet\n\nThe Lindholm \"amulet\", listed as DR 261 in Rundata, is a bone piece, carved into the shape of a rib, dated to the 2nd to 4th centuries (the late Roman Iron Age) and has a runic inscription.\n\nIt was found in 1840 in Skåne, Sweden, while cutting peat from a bog. This cut the bone in half and resulted in the destruction of one rune in the second line of text.\n\nThe inscription reads\n\nThe first line is transcribed into Proto-Norse as either \"Ek erilaz sa Wilagaz haite'ka\" or \"Ek erilaz Sawilagaz haite'ka\".\nThis translates to \"I am (an) \"erilaz\", I am called the wily\" (or \"I am called \"Sawilagaz\").\nIf the word in first line is translated as a name, \"Sawilagaz\" means \"the one of the Sun (Sowilo).\" If the word is translated as \"the wily\" or \"crafty one\" or \"deceitful one,\" then it may be related to a byname of Odin or another god.\n\nThe sequence in the second line contains a \"magical\" string of runes concluding in \"alu\".\nThe three consecutive Tiwaz runes as an invocation of the god Tiwaz, and the eight Ansuz runes as an invocation or symbolic list of eight gods.\n\n"}
{"id": "1471561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1471561", "title": "List of Hasidic dynasties", "text": "List of Hasidic dynasties\n\nA Hasidic dynasty is a dynasty led by Hasidic Jewish spiritual leaders known as rebbes, and usually has some or all of the following characteristics:\n\nA Hasidic group has the following characteristics:\n\nHasidic dynasties (arranged alphabetically) with a large following include:\n\nHasidic dynasties (arranged alphabetically) with a small following include:\n\nMany of these dynasties have presently few or no devotees due to most of the Hasidic groups being destroyed during the Holocaust, 1939-1945. Other communities are flourishing and have growing Hasidic sects. There are many dynasties whose followers number around five to fifteen people, and are not listed here.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28760785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28760785", "title": "List of Hindu temples in Poland", "text": "List of Hindu temples in Poland\n\nThis is a List of Hindu temples in Poland, by city.\n\n\"Deities:\" Pancha Tattva\n\"President:\" Ryszard Bugaj (Raghunatha dasa)\n\"Address:\" Nowe Śantipur, Farma Ekologiczna, Czarnów 21, 58-424 Kamienna Góra\nOfficial site\n\n\n\"Deities:\" Gaura-Nitai\n\"President:\" Jakub Staszelis Kryszna Kirtan das\n\"Address:\" ul. Zakręt 11, Mysiadło, 05-500 Piaseczno\nOfficial site\n\n\"Deities:\" Nrisimha, Lakshmi\nBhakti Marga in Poland\n\n\"Deities\": Gaura-Nitai\n\"President:\" dr. Bernadeta Gwizdak-Siwkowska (Premadana devi dasi)\n\"Address:\" ul. Brodzka 157, Pracze Odrzańskie, 54-067 Wrocław\nOfficial site\n\n"}
{"id": "40288333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40288333", "title": "List of churches on Gotland", "text": "List of churches on Gotland\n\nOf the churches of the Swedish island of Gotland, 93 – the vast majority – are medieval. 92 of these are located on the countryside, with only Visby Cathedral remaining within the city wall of Visby, the main town of the island. However, during the Middle Ages, the number of churches was even larger, with at least 12 churches in Visby and an additional large number in the countryside. Some of these are still visible as more or less well-preserved ruins. For further information about these ruined churches, see list of church ruins on Gotland.\n\nGotland began to gradually abandon Norse religion and adopt Christianity during the 11th century. The first churches to be built on Gotland were wooden, built in the manner of stave churches. None of these have survived intact. The most well-preserved remains, today in the Swedish History Museum, are those of Hemse stave church. Traces and archaeological evidence of earlier stave churches have been discovered in ten different sites on Gotland. The remains point to an artistic decoration reminiscent of Viking art.\n\nStone churches began to replace wooden churches during the 12th century. These churches were Romanesque in style, with influences coming mainly from Denmark and western German architecture, but to a limited extent also from the Byzantine Empire. Importantly, the construction of Lund Cathedral in Scania established a source of influences in the relative vicinity. Likewise, the 1164 establishment of the Cistercian monastery of Roma Abbey on Gotland led to strong Cistercian influences in the following period of church construction. These Romanesque churches were sometimes decorated internally with frescos. Here also, the influences came most often from the west and south, but sometimes also from Russia. Similarly, the churches were adorned with stone sculpture, notably decorated baptismal fonts. Here, too, influences came from both the west and the east, but the sculptors themselves seem to have been native Gotlanders. Finally, such churches also occasionally display wooden sculptures, such as triumphal crosses. These display a more markedly uniform western style, with influences coming from France or western Germany.\n\nDuring the 13th century, reconstruction works were started on several of these earlier churches. New churches were also commissioned. Gotland was enjoying a period of prosperity thanks to increasing trade, and, possibly, due to its role as a staging area for crusaders departing for the eastern shore of the Baltic Sea. The churches were made larger and more elaborate. The style began to shift in favour of the Gothic, although few churches on Gotland display a pronounced Gothic style. The most elaborate parts of these churches are often the portals, notably the main southern portals. The towers of these churches are also taller and more elaborate than earlier towers (which were often designed with a dual, defensive purpose). Another typical feature is the square choir that lacks an apse and instead has a straight eastern wall with three windows. Internally, frescos and wooden sculpture continued to enjoy popularity, as well as occasionally stained glass windows. Artistic influences came via Visby from mainly western Germany. At the end of this period, Gotland entered a period of economic decline. Following the Black Death, the invasion of Gotland by Valdemar IV of Denmark and the Battle of Visby (1361), and a general decrease in trade, many churches were left unfinished. Hence, several churches on Gotland display a peculiar form, where the choir is in Gothic style and disproportionally large in comparison with the rest of the otherwise Romanesque church. In such cases, reconstruction of the church had started with the choir but was brought to a halt before the whole reconstruction scheme could be finished.\n\nFrom about 1400, no new churches were erected and the general religious building activity decreases sharply. Internally, some churches receive further embellishment in the form of new altarpieces or frescos during the 15th and 16th century. Following the Reformation, a new type of altarpieces and pulpits were introduced. These post-Reformation furnishings from the 17th and 18th centuries are also well represented in the churches of Gotland.\n\nThe church building activity on Gotland thus took place in the period of approximately 250 years, from 1100 to 1350. Until the early 13th century, the pace of church building was comparable to the rest of Scandinavia. From then on, both the number and size of new churches increased significantly, until building activity came to a complete halt at the end of the Middle Ages.\n\nOnly a few of the church buildings on Gotland have been significantly altered since the end of the Middle Ages, which is unusual in a European context, since medieval churches were often heavily reconstructed or renovated during the 19th century. The medieval parish churches of Gotland comprise the most well-preserved set of such churches in Sweden, and indeed in the whole Baltic region.\n\nDuring the 20th century, a small number of new churches have been built, notably in Visby.\n\nThe vast majority of the churches on Gotland belongs to the Lutheran Church of Sweden, and the Diocese of Visby.\n\n\"Note:\" Unless specified otherwise, the churches on Gotland are named after their locality, i.e. Kräklingbo Church is to be found in Kräklingbo settlement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2128334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2128334", "title": "List of mythological objects", "text": "List of mythological objects\n\nMythological objects encompass a variety of items (e.g. weapons, armour, clothing) found in mythology, legend, folklore, tall tale, fable, religion, and spirituality from across the world. This list will be organized according to the category of object.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHercules' arrows, he coated his arrows in poison Hydra blood, but it led to his death.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5429398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5429398", "title": "List of the named Buddhas", "text": "List of the named Buddhas\n\nIn countries where Theravāda Buddhism is practiced by the majority of people, such as Sri Lanka, Cambodia, Laos, Burma, Thailand, it is customary for Buddhists to hold elaborate festivals, especially during the fair weather season, paying homage to the 28 Buddhas described in the \"Buddhavamsa\". The \"Buddhavamsa\" is a text which describes the life of Gautama Buddha and the 27 Buddhas who preceded him. The Buddhavamsa is part of the \"Khuddaka Nikāya\", which in turn is part of the \"Sutta Piṭaka\". The \"Sutta Piṭaka\" is one of three main sections of the \"Pāli Canon\" of Theravāda Buddhism.\n\nThe first three of these Buddhas—Taṇhaṅkara, Medhaṅkara, and Saraṇaṅkara—lived before the time of Dīpankara Buddha. The fourth Buddha, Dīpankara, is especially important, as he was the Buddha who gave \"niyatha vivarana\" (prediction of future Buddhahood) to the Brahmin youth who would in the distant future become the bodhisattva Gautama Buddha. After Dīpankara, 23 more noble people (\"ariya-puggala\") would attain enlightenment before Gautama, the historical Buddha.\n\nMany Buddhists also pay homage to the future (and 29th) Buddha, Maitreya. According to Buddhist scripture, Maitreya will be a successor of Gautama who will appear on Earth, achieve complete enlightenment, and teach the pure \"Dharma\". The prophecy of the arrival of Maitreya is found in the canonical literature of all Buddhist sects (Theravada, Mahayana, and Vajrayana), and is accepted by most Buddhists as a statement about an event that will take place when the \"Dharma\" will have been forgotten on \"Jambudvipa\" (the terrestrial realm, where ordinary human beings live).\n\nAccording to Theravada Buddhist tradition, each kalpa has 1,000 Buddhas. The previous kalpa was the \"vyuhakalpa\" (Glorious aeon), and the present kalpa is called the \"bhadrakalpa\" (Auspicious aeon). The Seven Buddhas of Antiquity (\"Saptatathāgata\") are seven Buddhas which bridge the vyuhakalpa and the bhadrakalpa:\n\nFollowing the Seven Buddhas of Antiquity will be Maitreya, the fifth and future Buddha of the bhadrakalpa.\n\nThe Koṇāgamana Buddha, second Buddha of the bhadrakalpa, is mentioned in a 3rd-century BCE inscription by Ashoka at Nigali Sagar, in today's Nepal. There is an Ashoka pillar at the site today. Ashoka's inscription in the Brahmi script is on the fragment of the pillar still partly buried in the ground. The inscription made when Emperor Asoka at Nigali Sagar in 249 BCE records his visit, the enlargement of a stupa dedicated to the Kanakamuni Buddha, and the erection of a pillar:\n\nAccording to Xuanzang, Koṇāgamana's relics were held in a stupa in Nigali Sagar, in what is now Kapilvastu District in southern Nepal.\n\nThe historical Buddha, Gautama, also called Sakyamuni (\"Sage of the Shakyas), is mentioned epigraphically on the Pillar of Ashoka at Rummindei (Lumbini in modern Nepal). The Brahmi script inscription on the pillar gives evidence that Ashoka, emperor of the Maurya Empire, visited the place in 3rd-century BCE and identified it as the birth-place of the Buddha.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2575752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2575752", "title": "Mandapeshwar Caves", "text": "Mandapeshwar Caves\n\nThe Mandapeshwar Caves () is an 8th Century rock-cut shrine dedicated to Shiva located near Mount Poinsur in Borivali, a suburb of Mumbai in Maharashtra, India. The caves were originally Buddhist viharas, before being occupied by the Brahmans.\n\nThe caves are situated in Mount Poinsur, Borivali, a suburb of Mumbai. Originally, the caves were on the banks of the Dahisar River but later the course of the river changed. The name of the neighbourhood was derived from this temple. It is believed that the name of Mount Poinsur, on which the Saint Francis D'Assisi High School is situated, is a corruption of the name \"Mandapeshwar\". The Mandapeshwar caves are smaller and lesser known as compared to the Kanheri caves in the Sanjay Gandhi National Park in Borivali East. The ruins of an old Portuguese-built church stand on top of the caves. The Immaculate Conception Church is located to its south end. There is an open ground in front of the caves which is used as a playground and parking area by slumdwellers from the slum in front of it. The Swami Vivekanand Road runs in front of this cave.\n\nThe caves are believed to have been built approximately 1500 to 1600 years ago, nearly around the same time as Jogeshwari caves (which were built between 520-550 CE).\n\nThe caves were originally cut by Buddhist monks. Most of the early rock-cut temples and rock-art in India was created by Buddhist monks. The monks were the missionaries of the revolutionary message of the Buddha and the best places to spread the new message where the nodes of trade routes. Maharashtra and many of its hills in the Western Ghats fit their purpose. The monks would dig out prayer halls or chaitya-grihas in the caves, while building votive stupas and dwelling places for themselves. Here they would meditate and influence the passing traders and anyone else who happened by. The hills around Mumbai were at the juncture of the sea trade routes. During the occupation of the khaneri caves, the Buddhist monks found another location where they created a hall of paintings. The cave was created by the Buddhist monks and then they hired travelling Persians to paint.\n\nThe name of the cave Mandapeshwar means Hall of Lord.\n\nThe sculptures in these caves are estimated to have been carved out at the same period as of those seen in the more splendid Jogeshwari Caves. It contained the largest Mandapa and a prominent Garbagriha.\n\nThis cave has seen through time, World war (when the soldiers used it), General people used to stay, Initial Portuguese used it as a place of prayer. These caves were witness to a series of invasions in the surrounding areas by different rulers and each time the caves were used for a different reason, sometimes even for things like housing by the armies or sometimes by refugees. During this period the monolithic paintings were badly defaced. After the invasion of the marathas in this area in the year 1739, for years this area was deserted.\n\nSomewhere in time the caves were again discovered, it under the protection of Indian Archaeology Society.\n\nMost of what can be seen on the walls now are just broken down remains which are sad reminders of its glorious past. The church (IC Church) and its graveyard are situated above the cave precincts. There are ruins of an old structure above the caves. These ruins belonged to a much older church built in 1544. This ruins is also under protection of Indian Archaeology Society.\n\nThere are four rock-cut shrines in Mumbai: Elephanta Caves, Jogeshwari Caves, Mahakali Caves, Mandapeshwar Caves. All four caves have the same sculptures. The sculptures at Mandapeshwar were created beginning in the late Gupta Empire, or some time after.\nElephanta Island was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1987 to preserve the artwork. \n\nMandpeshwer caves have sculptures of Nataraja, Sadashiva and a splendid sculpture of Ardhanarishvara. It also has Ganesha, Brahma and Vishnu statuettes. These works depicted the mythical tales of the Hindu gods and goddesses. Even today an elaborate sculpture representing the marriage of Shiva with Parvati may be viewed from the large square window at the south end of these caves. The caves are declared as an archaeological heritage site and therefore are protected under law.\n\n"}
{"id": "43829579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43829579", "title": "Masand", "text": "Masand\n\nA Masand was a representative and tithe collector in Sikhism. He was an officially appointed missionary minister representing the Sikh Guru, who baptized conversions to Sikhism, and collected \"dasvandh\" (\"the tenth\" of income) as an offering to the Sikh community and religious establishment. A \"Masand\" forwarded the collected amount to the Sikh Guru. \n\nIt is unclear when the \"Masand\" system started. It began with Guru Amar Das in some accounts, by Guru Ram Das in other accounts, or Guru Arjan by still other accounts. A Masand was appointed for each religious administrative unit called the Sikh Manji, a system that was founded by Guru Amar Das. This system was expanded by later Sikh Gurus. During conversions, the new convert would touch the feet of the \"Masand\".\n\nThe \"Masand\" system was critical in empowering Sikhism with an independent economic resource pool, that helped pay for \"Gurdwara\" (temple) building, for building a Sikh army and the upkeep of Sikh soldiers, as well routine expenses such as \"langar\" (kitchen) which offered a free meal to visitors to the Sikh temples.\n\nThe Manji and Masand system of revenue collection for Sikh temples and other purposes was a source of major dispute between the Sikh Gurus and the Mughal Emperors. For example, Aurangzeb seized the tithe collections by the \"Masands\" for use by the Mughal treasury, and demolished Sikh temples throughout Punjab to emphasize the Islamic character of the Mughal empire.\n\nSlowly, Masands became corrupt and start treating themselves as Gurus. They started collecting money for personal motives. When Guru Gobind Singh got this news, he captured such Masands and punished them.\n\nGuru Gobind Singh ordered Sikhs not to recognize or befriend the Masands and their deputies and wrote a Hymn against Masands which is incorporated in 33 Savaiye of Dasam Granth. Following is line from composition:\n"}
{"id": "41557947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41557947", "title": "Ming yun", "text": "Ming yun\n\nMing yun () is a concept of the personal life and destiny in the Chinese folk religion. \"Ming\" is \"life\" or \"right\", the given status of life, and \"yùn\" defines \"circumstance\" and \"individual choice\"; \"mìng\" is given and influenced by the transcendent force \"Tiān\" (天), that is the same as the \"divine right\" (\"tiān mìng\") of ancient rulers as identified by Mencius. Personal destiny (\"mìng yùn\") is thus perceived as both fixed (the status of life) and flexible, open-ended (the individual choice in matters of \"bào yìng\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "645490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=645490", "title": "Mufti", "text": "Mufti\n\nA mufti (; ) is an Islamic scholar who interprets and expounds Islamic law (Sharia and fiqh). Muftis are jurists qualified to give authoritative legal opinions known as fatwas. Historically, they were members of the ulama ranking above qadis.\n\nWith the introduction of the secular court system in the 19th century, Ottoman councils began to enforce criminal legislation, in order to emphasize their position as part of the new executive. This creation of the hierarchical secular judiciary did not displace the original Shari'a courts.\n\nShari'a justice developed along lines comparable to what happened to the organization of secular justice: greater bureaucratization, more precise legal circumscription of jurisdiction, and the creation of a hierarchy. This development began in 1856.\n\nUntil the Qadi’s Ordinance of 1856, the qadis were appointed by the Porte and were part of the Ottoman religious judiciary. This Ordinance recommends the consultation of muftis and ulama. In practice, the sentences of qadis usually were checked by muftis appointed to the courts. Other important decisions were also checked by the mufti of the Majlis al-Ahkdm or by a council of ulama connected with it. It is said that if the local qadi and mufti disagreed, it became customary to submit the case to the authoritative Grand Mufti.\n\nLater, in 1880, the new Shari'a Courts Ordinance introduced the hierarchical judiciary. Through the Ministry of Justice, parties could appeal to the Cairo Shari'a Court against decisions of provincial qadis and ni'ibs. Here, parties could appeal to the Shari'a Court open to the Shaykh al-Azhar and the Grand Mufti, where other persons could be added.\n\nLastly, judges were to consult the muftis appointed to their courts whenever a case was not totally clear to them. If the problem was not solved, the case had to be submitted to the Grand Mufti, whose fatwa was binding on the qadi.\n\nA mufti will generally go through a course in \"iftaa\", the issuance of \"fatwa\", and the person should fulfill the following conditions set by scholars in order that he may be able to issue verdicts (fatwas): Requirements also vary by country and sect. \n\n\nIn the 1800s,and still seen today, Muslims relied on building trust with people and forging partnerships, a very important aspect of Islamic life. The mufti was an example of this. In a time where people were often self-financed and independent, kinship often substituted for markets where preexisting bonds of trust facilitated cooperative ventures. These kin-based partnerships had many limitations. For example, if seeking a mufti's advice, the wealth and relationship of the family to the Mufti can cause seniority and sentiment to dictate decisions. Hence, there was social gains from institutions supportive of these cooperative ventures across these groups. This dependency on trust, and personal relationships has been said to have been the cause of the Middle East's descent from its Golden Commercial Age.\n\nAccording to University of Pennsylvania professor George Makdisi, the term \"mufti\" is a direct equivalent of the later western term \"professor\", meaning one who is qualified to profess independent opinion on a subject (same as \"fatwa\"). According to him, this was the highest level of academic credentials in classical Islamic academic tradition, above \"mudarris\" (doctor meaning teacher), and \"faqih\" (meaning Master)--a hierarchy later adopted in Western academic tradition.\n\nThe process to become a mufti is not standardized, and varies from country to country and sect to sect. In addition, Muftis, as interpreters of religious law, often issue differing and conflicting fatwas.\n\nA Sydney Mufti compared unveiled women to \"uncovered meat,\" though the Islamic body of the area attempted to disavow his statements. He has since gained popularity and raised his status in neighboring New Zealand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1161219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1161219", "title": "Muzha (deity)", "text": "Muzha (deity)\n\nMuzha () is a figure in Chinese mythology and a god in Chinese traditional religion.\n\nMuzha appears in some works including \"Fengshen Yanyi\" and \"Journey to the West\". According to folklore, Muzha was born a human during the end of the Shang dynasty to General Li Jing. He is a disciple of the Bodhisattvas Samantabhadra and Guanyin. He had two brothers, Nezha and Jinzha.\n\nIn the classic Chinese novel \"Fengshen Yanyi\". Muzha is the second son of Li Jing and Lady Yin. In appearance, Muzha is seen wearing a small top knot, a silk sash, linen shoes, and a cotton like garment. Thus, Muzha was seen as a celestial being — such as that of a superiorman — in appearance.\n\nFor many years, Muzha had left his father, Li Jing, to study under Superiorman Universal Converter of White Egret Cave. Following the rebirth of Nezha, and the near death of Li Jing, Li Jing would run into Muzha — as to save his life. Muzha would react with great anger towards Nezha and would soon battle it out with his renowned long sword against the fire-tipped spear. Soon enough during their fierce duel, Li Jing would try to make another escape; this was the point in which Muzha would be defeated by Nezha's golden brick — which thrust him to the ground due to its great weight. Following this point, Muzha would later present himself before Li Resounding, one of four superiormen of Nine Dragon Island. , Muzha chose to immediately kill Li Resounding at the first sign of defiance towards his words. Muzha would remain as a celestial protector of the Western Foothills with Nezha and Jinzha following this point.\n\n"}
{"id": "1064203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1064203", "title": "Neeman Committee", "text": "Neeman Committee\n\nIn Israel, the Neeman Committee was established to solve disputes concerning the process of Conversion to Judaism within the borders of Israel, which by the Law of Return also grants automatic citizenship and accompanying rights. It is unrelated to the ongoing debate about which conversions performed \"outside Israel\" should be recognized.\n\n"}
{"id": "40573338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40573338", "title": "Nyah Kur people", "text": "Nyah Kur people\n\nThe Nyah Kur (known in Thai as , \"Chao Bon\") are an ethnic group native to Thailand in Southeast Asia. Closely related to the Mon people, the Nyah Kur are the descendants of the Mon of Dvaravati who did not flee westward or assimilate when their empire fell under the influence of the Khmer when Suryavarman I gained the throne in the early 11th century.\n\nThe Mon were believed to be one of the earliest people of continental Southeast Asia where they founded some of the earliest recorded civilizations in the region including the Dvaravati in Central Thailand, Sri Gotapura in Central Laos, Hariphunchai in Northern Thailand and the Thaton Kingdom. Dvaravati was among the first to receive Theravada missionaries from Sri Lanka in contrast to Hindu contemporaries, the Khmers and Chams. The Mon adapted the Pallava script to their language and the oldest Mon script was found in a cave in modern Saraburi dating around 550 AD. At the turn of the first millennium, the Mon came under constant pressure due to the Tai migrations from the north and Khmer invasions from the east. When Suryavarman I, the Khmer heir to the throne of the Lavo Kingdom, also became ruler of the Khmer Empire, the vast majority of the Mon of Dvaravati fled west to other Mon lands, were taken as slaves or assimilated to the new culture.\n\nHowever a small remnant remained in the remote jungles of the Khorat Plateau. Little is known of their history. When they were discovered by western scholars in the early 20th century, it was variously assumed that they were part of the Lawa or Kuy ethnic groups. It was not until 1970 that their language was determined to be directly descended from Old Mon, and in fact, more similar to Old Mon than the modern Mon of their brethren in present-day Burma and Western Thailand. Although Nyah Kur and modern Mon are not mutually intelligible and the endonym \"Mon\" is unknown to the Nyah Kur, having remained isolated in the mountains between Central and Northeastern Thailand allowed the Nyah Kur to maintain their own ethnic identity which developed independently from the Mon during the last thousand years yet in some respects shows remarkable similarity to modern Mon culture.\n\nToday, the Nyah Kur live in small villages distributed in a north-south strip that crosses Phetchabun, Nakhon Ratchasima and Chaiyaphum provinces, the majority living in Chaiyaphum. The Thai refer to them as ชาวบน meaning \"upper people\" or \"sky people\". Their self-designation is \"Nyah Kur\", which in the Nyah Kur language means \"mountain folk\" and in modern Mon translates to \"hill plantation people\".\n\nThe Nyah Kur language, as a direct descendant of Old Mon, is a sister language to the Mon language of Burma, the two of which constitute the only languages of the Monic branch of the Austroasiatic language family. A 2006 estimate places the number of speakers at approximately 1500 people with no monolinguals. The dialects spoken in Phetchabun and Nakhon Ratchasima have limited intelligibility with that of Chaiyaphum and are nearly extinct. Even in Chaiyaphum, the language is spoken mostly among older Nyah Kur, while others prefer to identify as Thai and speak either the local Isan language or the national Thai standard. Nyah Kur no longer has its own script and when written, employs the Thai alphabet is used. In 1984, a Nyah Kur-Thai-English dictionary was published.\n\nIn modern times, the Nyah Kur have had increasing contact with the surrounding Thai and Kuy population resulting modernization, migration and integration of cultures. Nyah Kur villages today are a mix of ethnic Nyah Kur and Thai-Lao families. The Nyah Kur were historically Animists but today most practice Theravada Buddhism although traditional spirits, including Jao Paw Kun Dahn and Jao Paw Samian, are still worshiped. The \"Pah Re Re\", a traditional courting celebration similar to that of the Mon, is still practiced, usually around the time of the Thai Songkran.\n"}
{"id": "10194695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10194695", "title": "Presbyterian worship", "text": "Presbyterian worship\n\nPresbyterian worship documents worship practices in Presbyterian churches; in this case, the practices of the many churches descended from the Scottish Presbyterian church at the time of the Reformation.\n\nHistorically, the driving principle in the development of the standards of Presbyterian worship is the Regulative principle of worship, which specifies that (in worship), what is not commanded is forbidden.\n\nIn addition to those detailed in the \"History\" section below, Presbyterians also historically have held the following Worship positions:\n\nAt the start of the Scottish Reformation in 1560 there was no Reformed standard for worship in Scotland, so the shape the Church initially took was dependent on local Protestant patrons.\n\nWriting from exile in Geneva, John Knox described in detail what should be done at weekly worship in a 'Letter of Wholesome Councell' dated 1556. Protestant preachers fleeing Marian persecutions in England brought with them Edward VI's second Book of Common Prayer (of 1552), which was commended by the Lords of the Congregation. Knox too initially supported it (indeed reportedly, he had influenced aspects of it). However, before leaving Geneva and with the encouragement of John Calvin, he had written his own 'Book of Common Order' and it was this that was printed and approved by the General Assembly of 1562. Enlarged, it was reprinted with the Confession and the Psalms in metre in 1564, and it remained the standard until replaced with the Westminster Directory in 1643.\n\nThe Regulative principle of worship (see \"Theology of Worship\", above) saw many of the previous practices (inherited from the Roman Catholic church) cast aside. Two major points which might be unusual by today's standards were:\n\n\nBoth of these were introduced, at least partly, to prevent the singing of hymns to Mary and the Saints.\n\nIn early times the common method of singing in Presbyterian worship, was lining out, where a precentor read or sang one line and the congregation repeated it after them. The Directory of Public Worship, says this:\n\nIt appears from the wording that this was a practical measure in 1650, not a doctrinal position. Lining out was used by other denominations as well for the practical reasons that many people were not sufficiently literate or because of a lack of hymnals.\n\nFrom around 1720 onwards, many advocated the introduction of continuous (or regular) singing. Continuous singing was introduced into many Presbyterian churches worldwide, even those that consider themselves to be following the traditional Presbyterian line on worship; there are some, who still practise lining out, such as the Steelites.\n\nIn this context, \"hymns\" means hymns that are not part of the Bible; the word \"hymn\" is used in the Bible, but it is claimed by advocates of exclusive psalmody that this refers to a specific type of psalm.\n\nAfter singing psalms for 200 years, in 1861 the Church of Scotland first formally adopted hymns, with the Free Church of Scotland doing the same in 1872. Hymns and other extra-biblical words are now widely used in Presbyterian circles; the details vary from denomination to denomination.\n\nIn the early nineteenth century, the Revd R. William Ritchie of St. Andrew's Church, Glasgow, attempted to introduce an organ into his church, but was informed by the Presbytery of Glasgow that \"the use of organs in the public worship of God is contrary to the law of the land and constitution of our Established Church.\"\n\nIn 1863, the Revd Robert Lee introduced a harmonium into worship at Greyfriars Kirk, Edinburgh. Lee defended instrumental music at the 1864 General Assembly, who declared that \"such innovations should only be put down when they interfered with the peace of the Church and harmony of congregations\". A pipe organ was subsequently installed in Greyfriars, and first used in 1865.\n\nPresbyterian churches practice worship the Triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. This occurs every Sunday( Lords Day). Other services often occur at other times of the week as well as meetings for prayer and Bible Study or simply mid week chapel with communion being served. Most mainline Presbyterians utilize Hymns and with some additions to more modern worship songs being introduced or part of a blended service\".Most modern day Presbyterians do not strictly sing Psalms\" as some once did. John Calvin in Geneva used biblical psalms almost exclusively in the Genevan Psalter, though it contained some gospel canticles and catechetical songs. This psalter was to become a prototype for Reformed worship, but Calvin did not have any objection to the use of original hymns in other churches, and he did not appeal to scripture in his preface to the psalter justifying his preference for the Psalms.[1]:42, 45\n\nOther Presbyterian denominations hold exclusively to the psalms in metre. The psalms in metre are still esteemed by worship leaders in the Church of Scotland while also recognizing the contribution of authors of hymns and worship songs from historic times to the contemporary. \nUse of contemporary worship songs is employed by some more independent or evangelical type of congregations within Presbyterianism.\n\nJohn Calvin's direction for celebration of Holy Communion was every Lord's Day. During the time of the Puritan influence upon some Presbyterians, worship and the celebration of the Eucharist became lessened to once per quarter. This has changed in most mainline Presbyterian denominational churches and celebration of Communion ranges from once a quarter/ once a month to every Sunday or Lord's Day Service. This movement is carried forward by those who believe that Word and Sacrament should be present in each service of worship. The Real Presence of Christ (spiritually) is highly viewed and understood. Presbyterians strongly disagree with simply the symbolic or memorial service as taught by many Anabaptists, but do not go as far as the consubstantiation view of Lutherans. Presbyterians hold the \"Spiritual Real Presence\" of Christ in the sacrament of Communion. Today most mainline Presbyterian churches administer Communion by either passing the elements or by intinction.\n\nPresbyterians admit the authority of the Presbytery or Synod over all worship services in order to ensure that the worship of God, Father Son and Holy Spirit, is carried on properly and regularly in each congregation within the 'bounds' (area of jurisdiction). This is done by the appointment of Ministers by the Presbytery, who can also dismiss (depose) the Ministers should their conduct of regular worship be unsatisfactory. In modern times an effective presbytery is a forum for discussing and disseminating approaches to worship, always recognizing the supreme authority of the Word of God (Old and New Testaments of the Bible).\n\nIn the Church of Scotland the cancellation of any regular service of worship is a very serious matter. Services are carried out even by small rural congregations in the most extreme weather and under conditions of power failure and other privations. Elders, teaching and ruling, make every effort to ensure continuity or worship in every parish of Scotland at the published times.\n\n"}
{"id": "30949886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30949886", "title": "Ryan Kavanaugh", "text": "Ryan Kavanaugh\n\nRyan Colin Kavanaugh (born December 4, 1974) is an American businessman, film producer and film financier. He is the founder and former CEO of Relativity Media. Through Relativity, he has financed more than 200 films representing more than $17 billion in revenue (earning the nickname \"Billion Dollar Producer\"). He is credited as of April 19, 2014 as the producer of 61 films and known for creating a new \"Moneyball\" model of film finance. He was named by \"Variety\" as 2011's \"Showman of the Year\" and was #22 on the \"Fortune\" 40 Under 40 list. He was #19 on the \"Forbes\" 2013 list of youngest billionaires, and he entered an investment partnership with Ron Burkle. He is active in philanthropy and was named a Hollywood Humanitarian by Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. He is the 25th highest grossing producer in box office of all time.\n\nKavanaugh was born to a Jewish family in Los Angeles, California, where he was raised in the Brentwood neighborhood, and attended Brentwood High School. His mother, Leslie (Levin), is a real estate broker, and his father, Jack Konitz, a dentist turned businessman, was born in Germany and later changed his surname to \"Kavanaugh\" before his son's birth. After attending UCLA, Kavanaugh founded a small venture capital firm, which struggled in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks and was eventually wound up.\n\nKavanaugh founded Relativity Media after briefly serving as a consultant to other small businesses and venture capitalists. In the late 1990s, he asked his father for a $50,000 loan to start his own hedge fund; his father declined, but this did not dissuade Ryan, whose aim was to use mathematical tools to connect financing and movie projects in a more efficient manner than traditional Hollywood finance. At Relativity, he created what is now known as \"the model\", a monte carlo model designed to predict the odds of a given film being successful. No film at Relativity is given a green light unless the model predicts a high probability of profitability. During Relativity's first year of operation, Kavanaugh executed what was considered to be an innovative finance deal for Marvel Studios which led them to create the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Kavanaugh went on to structure business deals for such companies as: Sony, Universal, Warner Brothers, among many others. Kavanaugh has acquired a number of assets, including the marketing and distribution operations of John Malone's Liberty Media/Starz film unit Overture Films, and reaching a first of its kind TV pay deal with Netflix.\n\nKavanaugh forged a marketing, promotional, and production partnership with Sir Richard Branson's Virgin Mobile and Virgin Produced, in which Relativity owns a stake. Kavanaugh also brokered an innovative cross-platform marketing partnership with Clear Channel Radio, the media company with the most reach in the United States. He was also instrumental in launching Relativity's historic partnership with China's Huaxia Film Distribution Co. Ltd. to become equal partners in Sky Land Entertainment with private-equity firm SAIF Partners and IDG China Media to handle production and distribution of films in China and U.S. This marks the first strategic alliance between a Hollywood film production entity and a Chinese government-sponsored company. \n\nRelativity has produced, distributed, and/or structured financing for more than 200 motion pictures, generating more than $17 billion in worldwide box office revenue and earning 60 Oscar nominations. In 2012, Kavanaugh brokered a deal in which billionaire Ron Burkle will partner with Relativity and invest $800 million in the company. As Chairman and the largest shareholder, Kavanaugh will retain control of Relativity and control the majority of the board of directors of Relativity. In 2013, Relativity Media expanded into television (Relativity Television), Sports Management (Relativity Sports) and Digital Content (Relativity Digital), with the aim of leverage divisions to create a global media company.\n\nOn July 30, 2015, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Kavanaugh stepped down as CEO at the end of 2016. In May 2018 the company filed for bankruptcy a second time.\n\nKavanaugh led a group acquiring FreeHand, a premium dog food manufacturer best knownor its work rescuing homeless dogs. He intends to integrate FreeHand into the activities of Relativity, including a TV series based around building a dog food company and increased awareness of dog rescue, and is one of the fastest growing dog food companies in the US. It has been renamed Dog For Doog, and Kavanaugh remains majority shareholder along with Michael Buble, Chelsea Handler, Snoop Dog. Kavanaugh remains chairman of the board and the largest shareholder. Kavanaugh has launched a show on Saturday mornings called Save My Shelter with Dog for Dog which runs every Saturday at 9am. Dog for Dog has quickly become one of the fastest growing Dog food companies in the United States and Canada. He invested $25 million in luxury leather maker nuMobilia in 2012, Kavanaugh is a significant investor in music game creator .\n\nKavanaugh has produced such films as \"Immortals\", \"Limitless\", \"The Fighter\", \"Mirror Mirror\", \"Safe Haven\", and \"Beyond the Lights\". He executive produced \"The Social Network\", which received eight Oscar nominations. His other films include \"Mamma Mia!\", \"\", \"Grown Ups\" and \"Dear John\". He was denied the producing credit of the film \"The Fighter\" since the Academy only allows three producers to be named in the credit.\n\nDespite Kavaugh's \"Moneyball\" approach to film making, he turned down a chance to invest in the actual movie \"Moneyball\", citing the model's prediction that sports movies are often commercial failures.\n\nKavanaugh was honored with the 2009 Hollywood Producer of the Year Award at the 13th Annual Hollywood Awards Gala and \"Daily Variety\" published a special issue honoring Kavanaugh as a \"Billion Dollar Producer\". In 2010, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" bestowed the Leadership Award to Kavanaugh and the \"Daily Reporter\" dedicated a special issue in his honor as a \"Billion Dollar Producer\". He was named \"Variety's Showman of the Year, 2011\".\n\nRyan Kavanaugh giving the keynote at MIPCOM 2013\n\nKavanaugh was 21st on Fortune's 40 Under 40 Most Influential People in Business in 2010 and in \"Forbes' Future 400: Ones To Watch\". He was named a \"Top Thinker\" by Esquire. He also serves on the boards of other charitable foundations such as Cedars-Sinai Board of Governors and as Chairman of The Art of Elysium.\n\nKavanaugh currently resides in Malibu, California. In 1998, he married makeup artist Tracy Tanner. In 2011, he married ballet dancer Britta Lazenga. They divorced in 2014. The bachelor party was thrown by actors Leonardo DiCaprio and Bradley Cooper. In 2015, Kavanaugh married model Jessica Roffey. He is a member of the Wilshire Boulevard Temple.\n\nKavanaugh recently became involved in dog rescue through his acquisition of FreeHand, saying that \"We hope this will become a staple of Hollywood, and if you are not involved in this, then you're not promoting social good amongst the animal world.\" He has been recognized for his charitable work by organizations including Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, whose Board of Governors honored him as the sole winner of the 2010 Hollywood Humanitarian Award; the Sheriff's Youth Foundation, which presented him with its Community Champion Award in recognition of his outstanding dedication to inner-city young people; and by First Star for his dedication to improving life for child victims of abuse and neglect.\n\nKavanaugh was honored with the 2011 Entertainment Industry Award by the Anti-Defamation League, a group committed to fighting anti-Semitism and bigotry of all kinds. The award is given to individuals who demonstrate leadership and extraordinary innovation in the entertainment industry. Kavanaugh serves as the Chairman of the Board for The Art of Elysium, an organization that encourages actors, artists and musicians to voluntarily dedicate their time and talent to children who are battling serious medical conditions.\n\nHacking of Sony accounts in late 2014 revealed that Kavanaugh had sent an email to actresses including Natalie Portman and Scarlett Johansson, telling them to join him in taking action against what he saw as increased antisemitism which could end up as \"another Hollacast\" [\"sic\"].\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7871339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7871339", "title": "Salah times", "text": "Salah times\n\nSalat times refers to times when Muslims perform prayers (\"salat\"). The term is primarily used for the five daily prayers plus the Friday prayer. According to Muslim beliefs, the salat times were taught by Allah to Muhammad.\n\nPrayer times are standard for Muslims in the world, especially the fard prayer times. They depend on the condition of the Sun and geography. There are varying opinions regarding the exact salat times, the schools of Islamic thought differing in minor details. All schools agree that any given prayer cannot be performed before its stipulated time.\n\nThe five daily prayers are obligatory (\"fard\") and they are performed at times determined essentially by the position of the Sun in the sky. Hence, salat times vary at different locations on the Earth.\n\nFajr begins at \"subh saadiq\" -- true dawn or the beginning of twilight, when the morning light appears across the full width of the sky -- and ends at sunrise. Wudhu needed.\n\nThe time interval for offering the Zuhr or Dhuhr prayer starts after the sun passes its zenith and lasts until 20 min (approx) before the call for the Asr prayer is to be given. There is thus a long period of time within which this prayer can be offered, but people usually make their prayer within two hours after the Azan has been announced from Mosque. This prayer needs to be given in the middle of the work-day, and people normally make their prayers during their lunch break.\n\nShia (Jafari madhab) differs regarding end of zuhr time. Per all major Jafari jusrists, end of dhuhr time is about 10 minutes before sunset, the time that belongs exclusively to asr prayer. Dhuhr and asr time overlaps, apart from first 5 minutes of dhuhr, which is exclusively delegated for it. Asr prayer cannot be offered before zuhr in the zuhr time.\n\nThe Asr prayer starts when the shadow of an object is the same length as the object itself (or, according to Hanafi fiqh\n, twice its length) plus the shadow length at zuhr, and lasts till sunset. Asr can be split into two sections; the preferred time is before the sun starts to turn orange, while the time of necessity is from when the sun turns orange until sunset.\n\nShia (Jafari madhab) differs regarding start of asr time. Per all major Jafari jusrists, start of asr time is about 5 minutes after the time of sun passing through zenith, that time belongs exclusively to dhuhr prayer. Time for dhuhr and asr prayers overlap, but the zuhr prayer must be offered before asr, except the time about 10 minutes before sunset, which is delegated exclusively to asr. In the case that the mentioned time is reached, asr prayer should be offered first (ada - on time) and dhuhr (kada - make up, late) prayer should be offered after asr.\n\nThe Maghrib prayer begins when the sun sets, and lasts till the red light has left the sky in the west. It usually lasts for about 18 to 20 minutes from the start of Isha Time.\n\nThe Isha'a or isha prayer starts when the red light is gone from the western sky, and lasts until the rise of the \"white light\" (fajr sadiq) in the east. The preferred time for Isha is before midnight, meaning halfway between sunset and sunrise.\n\nTo calculate prayer times two astronomical measures are necessary, the declination of the sun and the difference between clock time and sundial clock. This difference being the result of the eccentricity of the earth's orbit and the inclination of its axis, it is called the Equation of time. The declination of the sun is the angle between sun's rays and the equator plan.\n\nIn addition to the above measures, to calculate prayer times for a specific location we need its spherical coordinates.\n\nIn the following formula_1 is the time zone, and formula_2 the time equation value. formula_3 and formula_4 are the Longitude and the Latitude of the considered point, respectively. formula_5 denotes the Declination of the Sun for a given date.\n\nAn other important equation gives the time difference between when the sun hits its highest point in the sky (Dhuhr time) and any other angle formula_6, as follow:\nformula_7\n\n\nIf we consider the elevation of the point we should add another correction to the constant formula_13.\n\n\nTechnological advances have allowed for products such as software-enhanced azan clocks that use a combination of GPS and microchips to calculate these formulas. This allows Muslims to live further away from mosques than previously possible, as they no longer need to rely solely on a muezzin in order to keep an accurate prayer schedule.\n\nThe Friday prayer replaces the dhuhr prayer performed on the other six days of the week. The precise time for this congregational prayer varies with the mosque, but in all cases it must be performed after dhuhr and before asr times. If one is unable to join the congregation, then they must pray the dhuhr prayer instead. This salat is compulsory to be done with ja'maat for men. Women have the option to perform Jumm'ah in the mosque or to pray zuhr.\n\nEid-ul-Adhaa and Eid-ul-Fitr\n\nAlso known as Salat Qiyam Allayl, this Salat is considered a Nafilah (Arabic: صلاة نفل‎ ; Meaning: Voluntary/Optional Salah (formal worship)) and is performed during the month of Ramadan. The prayer is performed after Isha (night) prayer, usually in congregation. Eight to twenty Rakaat are typically performed, however, a short rest is taken after every four Rakat.\n\nSalat-e-Janaza or Namaze Janaza ( Funeral prayer )\n\nThe Muslims of the community gather to offer their collective prayers for forgiveness for the dead. This prayer has been generally termed as the Namaze Janaza.The prayer is offered in a particular way with extra (four)Takbirs but there is no Ruku' ( bowing ) and Sajdah (prostrating) It becomes obligatory for every Muslim adult male to perform the funeral prayer upon the death of any Muslim, however when it is performed by the few it will not be obligation for all. Women also can attend the prayer.\n\n\nPrayer Times مواقيت الصلاة\nVisual representation of Muslim Prayer Times on a 24 hour clock based on your location"}
{"id": "19230710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19230710", "title": "Saturn (mythology)", "text": "Saturn (mythology)\n\nSaturn ( ) is a god in ancient Roman religion, and a character in myth as a god of generation, dissolution, plenty, wealth, agriculture, periodic renewal and liberation. In later developments, he also came to be a god of time. His reign was depicted as a Golden Age of plenty and peace. The Temple of Saturn in the Roman Forum housed the state treasury. In December, he was celebrated at what is perhaps the most famous of the Roman festivals, the Saturnalia, a time of feasting, role reversals, free speech, gift-giving and revelry. Saturn the planet and Saturday are both named after the god.\n\nThe Roman land preserved the remembrance of a very remote time during which Saturn and Janus reigned on the site of the city before its foundation: the Capitol was called .\nThe Romans identified Saturn with the Greek Cronus, whose myths were adapted for Latin literature and Roman art. In particular, Cronus's role in the genealogy of the Greek gods was transferred to Saturn. As early as Livius Andronicus (3rd century BC), Jupiter was called the son of Saturn.\n\nSaturn had two mistresses who represented different aspects of the god. The name of his wife, Ops, the Roman equivalent of Greek \"Rhea\", means \"wealth, abundance, resources.\" The association with Ops is considered a later development, however, as this goddess was originally paired with Consus. Earlier was Saturn's association with Lua (\"destruction, dissolution, loosening\"), a goddess who received the bloodied weapons of enemies destroyed in war.\n\nUnder Saturn's rule, humans enjoyed the spontaneous bounty of the earth without labour in the \"Golden Age\" described by Hesiod and Ovid.\n\nAccording to Varro, Saturn's name was derived from \"satu\", meaning \"sowing\". Even though this etymology looks implausible on linguistic grounds (for the long quantity of the \"a\" in \"Sāturnus\" and also because of the epigraphically attested form \"Saeturnus\") nevertheless it does reflect an original feature of the god. A more probable etymology connects the name with Etruscan god \"Satre\" and placenames such as \"Satria\", an ancient town of Latium, and \"Saturae palus\", a marsh also in Latium. This root may be related to Latin phytonym \"satureia\". \n\nAnother epithet, variably \"Sterculius\", \"Stercutus\", and \"Sterces\", referred to his agricultural functions; this derives from \"stercus\", \"dung\" or \"manure\", referring to re-emergence from death to life. Agriculture was important to Roman identity, and Saturn was a part of archaic Roman religion and ethnic identity. His name appears in the ancient hymn of the Salian priests, and his temple was the oldest known to have been recorded by the pontiffs.\n\nQuintus Lucilius Balbus gives a separate etymology in Cicero's De Natura Deorum (On the Nature of the Gods). In this interpretation, the agricultural aspect of Saturn would be secondary to his primary relation with time and seasons. Since Time consumes all things, Balbus asserts that the name Saturn comes from the Latin word \"satis\"; Saturn being an anthropomorphic representation of Time, which is filled, or satiated, by all things or all generations. Since agriculture is so closely linked to seasons and therefore an understanding of the cyclical passage of time, it follows that agriculture would then be associated with the deity Saturn.\n\nThe temple of Saturn was located at the base of the Capitoline Hill, according to a tradition recorded by Varro formerly known as \"Saturnius Mons\", and a row of columns from the last rebuilding of the temple still stands. The temple was consecrated in 497 BC but the \"area Saturni\" was built by king Tullus Hostilius as confirmed by archaeological studies conducted by E. Gjerstad. It housed the state treasury (aerarium) throughout Roman history.\n\nThe position of Saturn's festival in the Roman calendar led to his association with concepts of time, especially the temporal transition of the New Year. In the Greek tradition, Cronus was sometimes conflated with Chronus, \"Time,\" and his devouring of his children taken as an allegory for the passing of generations. The sickle or scythe of Father Time is a remnant of the agricultural implement of Cronus-Saturn, and his aged appearance represents the waning of the old year with the birth of the new, in antiquity sometimes embodied by Aion. In late antiquity, Saturn is syncretized with a number of deities, and begins to be depicted as winged, as is Kairos, \"Timing, Right Time\".\n\nThe figure of Saturn is one of the most complex in Roman religion. G. Dumézil refrained from discussing Saturn in his work on Roman religion on the grounds of insufficient knowledge. On the contrary, his follower Dominique Briquel has attempted a thorough interpretation of Saturn utilising Dumézil's three-functional theory of Indoeuropean religion, taking the ancient testimonies and the works of A. Brelich and G. Piccaluga as his basis.\n\nThe main difficulty scholars find in studying Saturn is in assessing what is original of his figure and what is due to later hellenising influences. Moreover, some features of the god may be common to Cronus but are nonetheless very ancient and can be considered proper to the Roman god, whereas others are certainly later and arrived after 217 BC, the year in which the Greek customs of the Kronia were introduced into the Saturnalia.\n\nAmong the features which are definitely authentic of the Roman god, Briquel identifies:\n\n\nThese three elements in Briquel's view indicate that Saturn is a sovereign god. The god's strict relationship with the cults of the Capitoline Hill and in particular with Jupiter are highlighted by the legends concerning the refusal of gods Iuventas and Terminus to leave their abode in the shrines on the Capitol when the temple of Jupiter was to be built. These two deities correspond to the helper gods of the sovereign in Vedic religion (Briquel refers to Dhritarashtra and Vidura, the figures of the Mahabharata) and to the Cyclopes and Hecatonchires in Hesiod. Whereas the helper gods belong to the second divine generation they become active only at the level of the third in each of the three instances of India, Greece and Rome, where they become a sort of continuation of Jupiter.)\n\nDumézil postulated a split of the figure of the sovereign god in Indoeuropean religion, which is embodied by Vedic gods Varuna and Mitra. Of the two, the first one shows the aspect of the magic, uncanny, awe inspiring power of creation and destruction, while the second shows the reassuring aspect of guarantor of the legal order in organised social life. Whereas in Jupiter these double features have coalesced, Briquel sees Saturn as showing the characters of a sovereign god of the Varunian type. His nature becomes evident in his mastership over the annual time of crisis around the winter solstice, epitomised in the power of subverting normal codified social order and its rules, which is apparent in the festival of the Saturnalia, in the mastership of annual fertility and renewal, in the power of annihilation present in his paredra Lua, in the fact that he is the god of a timeless era of plenty and bounty before time, which he reinstates at the time of the yearly crisis of the winter solstice. Also, in Roman and Etruscan reckoning Saturn is a wielder of lightning; no other agricultural god (in the sense of specialized human activity) is one. Hence the mastership he has on agriculture and wealth cannot be that of a god of the third function, i.e. of production, wealth, and pleasure, but it stems from his magical lordship over creation and destruction. Although these features are to be found in Greek god Cronus as well, it appears that those features were proper to Roman Saturn's most ancient aspects, such as his presence on the Capitol and his association with Jupiter, who in the stories of the arrival of the Pelasgians in the land of the Sicels and that of the Argei orders human sacrifices to him.\n\nSacrifices to Saturn were performed according to \"Greek rite\" (\"ritus graecus\"), with the head uncovered, in contrast to those of other major Roman deities, which were performed \"capite velato\", \"with the head covered.\" Saturn himself, however, was represented as veiled (\"involutus\"), as for example in a wall painting from Pompeii that shows him holding a sickle and covered with a white veil. This feature is in complete accord with the character of a sovereign god of the Varunian type and is common with German god Odin. Briquel remarks Servius had already seen that the choice of the Greek rite was due to the fact that the god himself is imagined and represented as veiled, thence his sacrifice cannot be carried out by a veiled man: this is an instance of the reversal of the current order of things typical of the nature of the deity as appears in its festival. Plutarch writes his figure is veiled because he is the father of truth.\n\nPliny notes that the cult statue of Saturn was filled with oil; the exact meaning of this is unclear. Its feet were bound with wool, which was removed only during the Saturnalia. The fact that the statue was filled with oil and the feet were bound with wool may relate back to the myth of \"The Castration of Uranus\". In this myth Rhea gives Cronus a rock to eat in Zeus' stead, thus tricking Cronus. Although mastership of knots is a feature of Greek origin it is also typical of the Varunian sovereign figure, as apparent e.g. in Odin. Once Zeus was victorious over Cronus, he sets this stone up at Delphi and constantly it is anointed with oil and strands of unwoven wool are placed on it. It wore a red cloak, and was brought out of the temple to take part in ritual processions and \"lectisternia\", banquets at which images of the gods were arranged as guests on couches. All these ceremonial details identify a sovereign figure. Briquel concludes that Saturn was a sovereign god of a time that the Romans perceived as no longer actual, that of the legendary origins of the world, before civilization.\n\nLittle evidence exists in Italy for the cult of Saturn outside Rome, but his name resembles that of the Etruscan god Satres. The potential cruelty of Saturn was enhanced by his identification with Cronus, known for devouring his own children. He was thus used in translation when referring to gods from other cultures the Romans perceived as severe; he was equated with the Carthaginian god Ba'al Hammon, to whom children were sacrificed, and to Yahweh, whose Sabbath was referred to as \"Saturni dies\", \"Saturn's day,\" in a poem by Tibullus, who wrote during the reign of Augustus; eventually this gave rise to the word \"Saturday\" in English. The identification with Ba'al Hammon later gave rise to the African Saturn, a cult that enjoyed great popularity until the 4th century. It had a popular but also a mysteric character and required child sacrifices. It is also considered as inclining to monotheism. In the ceremony of initiation the myste \"intrat sub iugum\", ritual that Leglay compares to the Roman \"tigillum sororium\". Even though their origin and theology are completely different the Italic and the African god are both sovereign and master over time and death, fact that has permitted their encounter. Moreover, here Saturn is not the real Italic god but his Greek counterpart Cronus.\n\nSaturn is associated with a major religious festival in the Roman calendar, \"Saturnalia\". Saturnalia celebrated the harvest and sowing, and ran from December 17–23. During Saturnalia, the social restrictions of Rome were relaxed. The figure of Saturn, kept during the year with its legs bound in wool, was released from its bindings for the period of the festival. The revelries of Saturnalia were supposed to reflect the conditions of the lost \"Golden Age\" before the rule of Saturn was overthrown, not all of them desirable except as a temporary release from civilized constraint. The Greek equivalent was the Kronia.\n\nMacrobius (5th century AD) presents an interpretation of the Saturnalia as a festival of light leading to the winter solstice. The renewal of light and the coming of the new year was celebrated in the later Roman Empire at the \"Dies Natalis\" of Sol Invictus, the \"Birthday of the Unconquerable Sun,\" on December 25.\n\nIt was customary for the Romans to represent divine figures as kings of Latium at the time of their legendary origins. \nMacrobius states explicitly that the Roman legend of Janus and Saturn is an affabulation, as the true meaning of religious beliefs cannot be openly expressed. In the myth Saturn was the original and autochthonous ruler of the Capitolium, which had thus been called the \"Mons Saturnius\" in older times and on which once stood the town of \"Saturnia\". He was sometimes regarded as the first king of Latium or even the whole of Italy. At the same time, there was a tradition that Saturn had been an immigrant god, received by Janus after he was usurped by his son Jupiter and expelled from Greece. In Versnel's view his contradictions—a foreigner with one of Rome's oldest sanctuaries, and a god of liberation who is kept in fetters most of the year—indicate Saturn's capacity for obliterating social distinctions.\n\nThe Golden Age of Saturn's reign in Roman mythology differed from the Greek tradition. He arrived in Italy \"dethroned and fugitive,\" but brought agriculture and civilization for which he was rewarded by Janus with a share of the kingdom, becoming himself king. As the Augustan poet Virgil described it, \"He gathered together the unruly race\" of fauns and nymphs \"scattered over mountain heights, and gave them laws ... . Under his reign were the golden ages men tell of: in such perfect peace he ruled the nations.\" He was considered the ancestor of the Latin nation as he fathered Picus, the first king of Latium, who married Janus' daughter Canens and in his turn fathered Faunus. Saturn was also said to have founded the five \"Saturnian\" towns of Latium: Aletrium (today Alatri), Anagnia (Anagni), Arpinum (Arpino), Atina and Ferentinum (Ferentino, also known as Antinum) all located in the Latin Valley, province of Frosinone. All these towns are surrounded by cyclopical walls; their foundation is traditionally ascribed to the Pelasgians.\n\nBut Saturn also had a less benevolent aspect, as indicated by the blood shed in his honor during gladiatorial \"munera\". His consort in archaic Roman tradition was Lua, sometimes called \"Lua Saturni\" (\"Saturn's Lua\") and identified with Lua Mater, \"Mother Destruction,\" a goddess in whose honor the weapons of enemies killed in war were burned, perhaps as expiation. H.S. Versnel, however, proposed that \"Lua Saturni\" should not be identified with \"Lua Mater\", but rather refers to \"loosening\"; she thus represents the liberating function of Saturn.\n\nSaturn's chthonic nature connected him to the underworld and its ruler Dis Pater, the Roman equivalent of Greek Plouton (Pluto in Latin) who was also a god of hidden wealth. In 3rd-century AD sources and later, Saturn is recorded as receiving gladiatorial offerings \"(munera)\" during or near the Saturnalia. These gladiator combats, ten days in all throughout December, were presented by the quaestors and sponsored with funds from the treasury of Saturn.\n\nThe practice of gladiatorial \"munera\" was criticized by Christian apologists as a form of human sacrifice. Although there is no evidence of this practice during the Republican era, the offering of gladiators led to later theorizing that the primeval Saturn had demanded human victims. Macrobius says that Dis Pater was placated with human heads and Saturn with sacrificial victims consisting of men \"(virorum victimis)\". The figurines that were exchanged as gifts \"(sigillaria)\" during the Saturnalia may have represented token substitutes.\n\nIn 104 BC, the plebeian tribune Lucius Appuleius Saturninus issued a denarius depicting Saturn driving a four-horse chariot \"(quadriga)\", a vehicle associated with rulers, triumphing generals, and sun gods. Saturninus was a popularist politician who had proposed reduced-price grain distribution to the poor of Rome. The head of the goddess Roma appears on the obverse. The Saturnian imagery played on the tribune's name and his intent to alter the social hierarchy to his advantage by basing his political support on the common people \"(plebs)\" rather than the senatorial elite.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41938657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41938657", "title": "Sthiti", "text": "Sthiti\n\nA Sanskrit Dictionary gives more than eighty meanings of the Sanskrit word, Sthiti (स्थिति), but this word mainly refers to position, rank or dignity, staying, or permanence, permanent or continued existence in any place.\n\nThe single principle behind the universe is described by Atharvaveda in Mantra X.8.11 in the following words:\n\nas the one reality existing which possessing multifarious forms and qualities upholds this world that has resting on it whatever which desires to move or fly or stay stationary which breathes or does not breath, which sees and does not see.\n\nAccording to the Shatapatha Brahmana, the word,Sthiti, refers to maintenance, of the created world, the life-giver, duration of life of the maintenance of universal creation, and according to Sri Brahma Samhita, it refers to preservation.\n\nIn Jainism, the word, \"Sthiti\", refers to the length or duration (in time) of \"ayu-karma\", the specific period for which the karmic matter, consisting of desires or passions that motivate actions remains, bound with the soul, the specific length of life in the \"gati\" whether as heavenly being or hell being is determined by the \"sthiti\" of \"ayu\" that stays bound; \"bhava-leshya\" affects \"sthiti\" and \"pradesa-bandha\". The duration of karmans of a Jiva is dependent on \"adhayavasaya\" ('the tenure of the mind'), and therefore, on the strength of the \"kasayas\" ('binding factors').\n\nAbhidharma-kosa, a Buddhist text, in Sloka II.46 tells us that – \"Arising is existence following upon non-existence; duration is the series; impermanence is the rupture of all series; and between the successive states of the series\"; in Buddhism \"sthiti\" refers to the impermanence of duration; it is the impermanence of duration that destroys dharma The Sarvastivadins, as a result of the analysis of change, commute impermanence in terms of \"jati\" ('nascent'), \"sthiti\" ('static'), \"jara\" ('decaying') and \"nasa\" ('cessant') moments taking \"change of what exists\" as signifying two moments, static and decaying. The followers of Theravada reject the jara-moment, and the Sautrantikas reject the sthiti-moment.\n\nThe Vastu-sutra Upanishad with reference to \"Kriyavastha\" ('rituals of postural action') speaks of six essential disciplines that can be applied to Asana; the language of postures refers to three rhythms – \"Shrishti\" ('emanation'), \"Sthiti\" ('maintenance') and \"Samhara\" ('resorption'). \"Vaijayanti Kosha\" defines Sthiti as the act of maintaining. \"Sthiti\" relates to adulthood and emphasizes organic and pranic actions.\n\nAs per Yoga terminology, the word, \"Sthiti\", means 'steadiness' i.e. steadiness of the mind –\n\nSamadhi is the highest \"Sthiti\" of mind.\n\nYoga school recommends exercises to be practiced in accordance with one’s physical condition, age and constitution; the general rule is to follow \"vriddhi\" (during youth when the body is healthy and growing), \"sthiti\" (during middle age when the body is neither growing nor decaying) and \"laya\" (during old age when the body gets old and is decaying). The different \"asana\" ('postures'), which are duly graded, are also called \"sthiti\". Moreover, absence of commonly experienced states of mental distraction known as \"citta vritti\" is called \"sthiti\" ('stationary') or absolute tranquility, in that state one experiences \"prasanta-vahita\" ('flow of peace'); and in which state the yogi desires to remain continuously. According to \"Yoga Rahasya\", \"Sthiti\" is a karma meant for the house-holder, and \"Sthiti\" means – to stay i.e. the priority to maintain health rather than increase strength.\n\nAccording to Vaishnava Dharma, the five functions of Shakti are \"triodhana\" or \"triobhava\" ('delusion'), \"shrishti\" ('creation'), \"sthiti\" ('sustenance'), \"laya\" or \"samhrti\" ('dissolution') and \"anugraha\" ('grace'); these account for its \"Kiryashakti\" ('power of action'). Avyakta, aksara, yoni, avidya, trigunas, sthiti, maya, svabhava etc., are synonyms of Prakrti.\n\n\"Yoga Vasistha\" has six \"prakarnas\" ('divisions') – \"vairagya\" ('renunciation'), \"mumuksu-vyavahara\" ('longing for salvation'), \"utpatti\" ('cosmological origin'), \"sthiti\" ('preservation'), \"upasama\" ('quiescence') and \"nirvana\" ('absorption'). The five stories in \"Sthiti Prakarna\" narrated by Rishi Vashistha, show that by forgetting that the actor, the perceiver, the knower or \"I\" is one's own creation identifying with action, and by identifying with the actor, the perceived and the known, one becomes totally bound and suffers repeated births. \"Sthiti\" or preservation of the \"I\" is important for growth when one learns and experiences the different aspects of existence.\n\nThe five activities attributed to Ishvara by the Shaivites are – \"shrishti\" ('emanation or projection'), \"sthiti\" ('maintenance'), \"samhara\" ('withdrawal'), \"vilaya\" ('concealment of the real nature') and \"anugraha\" ('grace'), and therefore, Shiva is known as \"pancakrityakari\", the continuous do-er of five-fold act which is different from the concept of Brahman who is \"niskriya\" ('without activity'). \"Pratayabhijna\" insists on meditation on \"panca-krtya\" and the practice of \"vikalpa-ksaya\" during which course the retention and enjoyment of what one perceives (\"abhasana\") is \"rakti\" or \"sthiti\" i.e. preservation, which is withdrawn at the time of knowledge. Sthiti is thus the inward cessation of all \"darsanas\" ('empirical knowledge, the experience of things').\n\nThe \"Devi-Bhagavata\" III.7.25-26 speaks of the three shaktis of the three gunas – \"jnana-shakti\" of sattva, \"kriya-shakti\" of rajas and \"artha-shakti\" or \"dravya-shakti\" of tamas; jnana and dravya show the nature of \"prakasa\" ('light', 'knowledge') and \"sthiti\" ('sustenance', 'existence') in a clearer way. \"Shrishti\" (natural state and Nature), \"Sthiti\" (continuation and maintenance) and \"Samhara\" (annihilation and reabsorption) constitute the triad which alludes to a ceaseless process of creation, sustenance and dissolution in a repeating cycle starting from the emptiness of a positive content which causes multifarious forms to shine forth in the mid-way of its movement before receding to rest from where the process started. \"Sthiti\" is defined as that by virtue of which the gunas are recognized as \"gunas\", and is the common name of the other two genders viz. birth and death.\n"}
{"id": "19495121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19495121", "title": "The Fundamentalism Project", "text": "The Fundamentalism Project\n\nThe Fundamentalism Project was an international scholarly investigation of conservative religious movements throughout the world, funded by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The project began in 1987, directed by Martin E. Marty and R. Scott Appleby, concluding in 1995. The understanding of fundamentalism framing the project was considered controversial in some cases, though even those scholars with criticism of the assumptions upon which the project was based admit that there is a great deal of useful empirical information to be found in the publications that grew out of the project.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3557764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3557764", "title": "Theosophical Order of Service", "text": "Theosophical Order of Service\n\nThe Theosophical Order of Service (TOS) is an international organization founded in 1908 by Annie Besant, the second International President of the Theosophical Society. Its motto is: \"A union of those who love in the service of all that suffers.\" \n\nThe TOS is found in many countries in the world and is engaged in various service projects that seek to alleviate suffering, such as medical missions, assistance during disasters, orphanages, scholarships, establishment of schools, rehabilitation of malnourished children, caring for the disabled, preventing cruelty to animals, promoting vegetarianism, character building for young people, etc. TOS members need not be members of the Theosophical Society, but it is administered by Theosophists.\n\n"}
{"id": "2311173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311173", "title": "Uthark theory", "text": "Uthark theory\n\nIn the occult study of the esoteric meaning of runes, the Uthark theory originated in the 1930s with the work of philologist Sigurd Agrell (1881–1937), a professor at Lund University, Sweden.\n\nHe theorised that the \"rune row\" is a cipher, and that one can understand its meaning by placing the first rune, \"F\", last, resulting in an ”Uthark” instead of the traditional \"Futhark\" order. He articulated the bulk of his theory in his book of 1932, \"Die spätantike Alphabet-Mystik und die Runenreihe\" [The Alphabet-mysticism of late antiquity and the sequence of the runes].\n\nThe suggestion has not been accepted in mainstream runic studies, due to lack of historical sources, but has found proponents in occult circles and in popular culture.\n\nKenneth Meadows promoted the Uthark theory in his 1995 book \"Rune Power\". Thomas Karlsson, founder of the magical Order Dragon Rouge and Therion lyricist, then published the first monograph dedicated to the subject after Agrell's work of 1932: \"Uthark: Nightside of the Runes\" \nin 2002.\n"}
