{"id": "2411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2411", "title": "A cappella", "text": "A cappella\n\nA cappella (; Italian for \"in the manner of the chapel\") music is specifically group or solo singing without instrumental accompaniment, or a piece intended to be performed in this way. It contrasts with cantata, which is usually accompanied singing. The term \"a cappella\" was originally intended to differentiate between Renaissance polyphony and Baroque concertato style. In the 19th century a renewed interest in Renaissance polyphony coupled with an ignorance of the fact that vocal parts were often doubled by instrumentalists led to the term coming to mean unaccompanied vocal music. The term is also used, albeit rarely, as a synonym for alla breve.\n\nA cappella music was originally used in religious music, especially church music as well as anasheed and zemirot. Gregorian chant is an example of a cappella singing, as is the majority of secular vocal music from the Renaissance. The madrigal, up until its development in the early Baroque into an instrumentally-accompanied form, is also usually in a cappella form. Jewish and Christian music were originally a cappella, and this practice has continued in both of these religions as well as in Islam.\n\nThe polyphony of Christian a cappella music began to develop in Europe around the late 15th century AD, with compositions by Josquin des Prez. The early a cappella polyphonies may have had an accompanying instrument, although this instrument would merely double the singers' parts and was not independent. By the 16th century, a cappella polyphony had further developed, but gradually, the cantata began to take the place of a cappella forms. 16th century a cappella polyphony, nonetheless, continued to influence church composers throughout this period and to the present day. Recent evidence has shown that some of the early pieces by Palestrina, such as what was written for the Sistine Chapel was intended to be accompanied by an organ \"doubling\" some or all of the voices. Such is seen in the life of Palestrina becoming a major influence on Bach, most notably in the \"Mass in B Minor\".\n\nOther composers that utilized the a cappella style, if only for the occasional piece, were Claudio Monteverdi and his masterpiece, \"Lagrime d'amante al sepolcro dell'amata\" (A lover's tears at his beloved's grave), which was composed in 1610, and Andrea Gabrieli when upon his death it was discovered many choral pieces, one of which was in the unaccompanied style. Learning from the preceding two composeres, Heinrich Schütz utilized the a cappella style in numerous pieces, chief among these were the pieces in the oratorio style, which were traditionally performed during the Easter week and dealt with the religious subject matter of that week, such as Christ's suffering and the Passion. Five of Schutz's \"Historien\" were Easter pieces, and of these the latter three, which dealt with the passion from three different viewpoints, those of Matthew, Luke and John, were all done a cappella style. This was a near requirement for this type of piece, and the parts of the crowd were sung while the solo parts which were the quoted parts from either Christ or the authors were performed in a plainchant.\n\nIn the Byzantine Rite of the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Eastern Catholic Churches, the music performed in the liturgies is exclusively sung without instrumental accompaniment. Bishop Kallistos Ware says, \"The service is sung, even though there may be no choir... In the Orthodox Church today, as in the early Church, singing is unaccompanied and instrumental music is not found.\" This \"a cappella\" behavior arises from strict interpretation of Psalms 150, which states, \"Let every thing that hath breath praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord.\" In keeping with this philosophy, early Russian \"musika\" which started appearing in the late 17th century, in what was known as \"khorovïye kontsertï\" (choral concertos) made a cappella adaptations of Venetian-styled pieces, such as the treatise, \"Grammatika musikiyskaya\" (1675), by Nikolai Diletsky. Divine Liturgies and Western Rite masses composed by famous composers such as Peter Tchaikovsky, Sergei Rachmaninoff, Alexander Arkhangelsky, and Mykola Leontovych are fine examples of this.\n\nPresent-day Christian religious bodies known for conducting their worship services without musical accompaniment include some Presbyterian churches devoted to the regulative principle of worship, Old Regular Baptists, Primitive Baptists, Plymouth Brethren, Churches of Christ, Church of God (Guthrie, Oklahoma), the Old German Baptist Brethren, Doukhobors the Byzantine Rite and the Amish, Old Order Mennonites and Conservative Mennonites. Certain high church services and other musical events in liturgical churches (such as the Roman Catholic Mass and the Lutheran Divine Service) may be a cappella, a practice remaining from apostolic times. Many Mennonites also conduct some or all of their services without instruments. Sacred Harp, a type of folk music, is an a cappella style of religious singing with shape notes, usually sung at singing conventions.\n\nOpponents of musical instruments in the Christian worship believe that such opposition is supported by the Christian scriptures and Church history. The scriptures typically referenced are Matthew 26:30; Acts 16:25; Romans 15:9; 1 Corinthians 14:15; Ephesians 5:19; Colossians 3:16; Hebrews 2:12, 13:15; James 5:13, which show examples and exhortations for Christians to sing.\n\nThere is no reference to instrumental music in early church worship in the New Testament, or in the worship of churches for the first six centuries. Several reasons have been posited throughout church history for the absence of instrumental music in church worship.\n\nChristians who believe in a cappella music today believe that in the Israelite worship assembly during Temple worship only the Priests of Levi sang, played, and offered animal sacrifices, whereas in the church era, all Christians are commanded to sing praises to God. They believe that if God wanted instrumental music in New Testament worship, He would have commanded not just singing, but singing and playing like he did in the Hebrew scriptures.\n\nThe first recorded example of a musical instrument in Roman Catholic worship was a pipe organ introduced by Pope Vitalian into a cathedral in Rome around 670.\n\nInstruments have divided Christendom since their introduction into worship. They were considered a Catholic innovation, not widely practiced until the 18th century, and were opposed vigorously in worship by a number of Protestant Reformers, including Martin Luther (1483–1546), Ulrich Zwingli, John Calvin (1509–1564) and John Wesley (1703–1791). Alexander Campbell referred to the use of an instrument in worship as \"a cow bell in a concert\". In Sir Walter Scott's \"The Heart of Midlothian\", the heroine, Jeanie Deans, a Scottish Presbyterian, writes to her father about the church situation she has found in England (bold added):\n\nThose who do not adhere to the regulative principle of interpreting Christian scripture, believe that limiting praise to the unaccompanied chant of the early church is not commanded in scripture, and that churches in any age are free to offer their songs with or without musical instruments.\n\nThose who subscribe to this interpretation believe that since the Christian scriptures never counter instrumental language with any negative judgment on instruments, opposition to instruments instead comes from an interpretation of history. There is no written opposition to musical instruments in any setting in the first century and a half of Christian churches (AD 33 to 180). The use of instruments for Christian worship during this period is also undocumented. Toward the end of the 2nd century, Christians began condemning the instruments themselves. Those who oppose instruments today believe these Church Fathers had a better understanding of God's desire for the church, but there are significant differences between the teachings of these Church Fathers and Christian opposition to instruments today.\n\nSince \"a cappella\" singing brought a new polyphony (more than one note at a time) with instrumental accompaniment, it is not surprising that Protestant reformers who opposed the instruments (such as Calvin and Zwingli) also opposed the polyphony. While Zwingli was destroying organs in Switzerland – Luther called him a fanatic – the Church of England was burning books of polyphony.\n\nSome Holiness Churches such as the Free Methodist Church opposed the use of musical instruments in church worship until the mid-20th century. The Free Methodist Church allowed for local church decision on the use of either an organ or piano in the 1943 Conference before lifting the ban entirely in 1955.\n\nWhile worship in the Temple in Jerusalem included musical instruments (), traditional Jewish religious services in the Synagogue, both before and after the last destruction of the Temple, did not include musical instruments given the practice of scriptural cantillation. The use of musical instruments is traditionally forbidden on the Sabbath out of concern that players would be tempted to repair (or tune) their instruments, which is forbidden on those days. (This prohibition has been relaxed in many Reform and some Conservative congregations.) Similarly, when Jewish families and larger groups sing traditional Sabbath songs known as zemirot outside the context of formal religious services, they usually do so a cappella, and Bar and Bat Mitzvah celebrations on the Sabbath sometimes feature entertainment by a cappella ensembles. During the Three Weeks musical instruments are prohibited. Many Jews consider a portion of the 49-day period of the counting of the omer between Passover and Shavuot to be a time of semi-mourning and instrumental music is not allowed during that time. This has led to a tradition of a cappella singing sometimes known as \"sefirah\" music.\n\nThe popularization of the Jewish chant may be found in the writings of the Jewish philosopher Philo, born 20 BC. Weaving together Jewish and Greek thought, Philo promoted praise without instruments, and taught that \"silent singing\" (without even vocal chords) was better still. This view parted with the Jewish scriptures, where Israel offered praise with instruments by God's own command (). The shofar is the only temple instrument still being used today in the synagogue, and it is only used from Rosh Chodesh Elul through the end of Yom Kippur. The shofar is used by itself, without any vocal accompaniment, and is limited to a very strictly defined set of sounds and specific places in the synagogue service. However, silver trumpets, as described in , have been made in recent years and used in prayer services at the Western Wall.\n\nPeter Christian Lutkin, dean of the Northwestern University School of Music, helped popularize a cappella music in the United States by founding the Northwestern A Cappella Choir in 1906. The A Cappella Choir was \"the first permanent organization of its kind in America.\"\n\nAn \"a cappella\" tradition was begun in 1911 by F. Melius Christiansen, a music faculty member at St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minnesota. The St. Olaf College Choir was established as an outgrowth of the local St. John's Lutheran Church, where Christiansen was organist and the choir was composed, at least partially, of students from the nearby St. Olaf campus. The success of the ensemble was emulated by other regional conductors, and a tradition of a cappella choral music was born in the region at colleges like Concordia College (Moorhead, Minnesota), Augustana College (Rock Island, Illinois), Wartburg College (Waverly, Iowa), Luther College (Decorah, Iowa), Gustavus Adolphus College (St. Peter, Minnesota), Augustana College (Sioux Falls, South Dakota), and Augsburg University (Minneapolis, Minnesota). The choirs typically range from 40 to 80 singers and are recognized for their efforts to perfect blend, intonation, phrasing and pitch in a large choral setting.\n\nMovements in modern a cappella over the past century include barbershop and doo wop. The Barbershop Harmony Society, Sweet Adelines International, and Harmony Inc. host educational events including Harmony University, Directors University, and the International Educational Symposium, and international contests and conventions, recognizing international champion choruses and quartets.\n\nMany a cappella groups can be found in high schools and colleges. There are amateur Barbershop Harmony Society and professional groups that sing a cappella exclusively. Although a cappella is technically defined as singing without instrumental accompaniment, some groups use their voices to emulate instruments; others are more traditional and focus on harmonizing. A cappella styles range from gospel music to contemporary to barbershop quartets and choruses.\n\nThe Contemporary A Cappella Society (CASA) is a membership option for former students, whose funds support hosted competitions and events.\n\nA cappella music was popularized between the late 2000s and the early to mid-2010s with media hits such as the 2009–2014 TV show \"The Sing-Off\" and the musical comedy film series \"Pitch Perfect\".\n\nIn July 1943, as a result of the American Federation of Musicians boycott of US recording studios, the a cappella vocal group \"The Song Spinners\" had a best-seller with \"Comin' In On A Wing And A Prayer\". In the 1950s, several recording groups, notably The Hi-Los and the Four Freshmen, introduced complex jazz harmonies to a cappella performances. The King's Singers are credited with promoting interest in small-group a cappella performances in the 1960s. Frank Zappa loves Doo wop and A cappella, so Zappa released The Persuasions' first album from his label in 1970. In 1983, an a cappella group known as The Flying Pickets had a Christmas 'number one' in the UK with a cover of Yazoo's (known in the US as Yaz) \"Only You\". A cappella music attained renewed prominence from the late 1980s onward, spurred by the success of Top 40 recordings by artists such as The Manhattan Transfer, Bobby McFerrin, Huey Lewis and the News, All-4-One, The Nylons, Backstreet Boys, Boyz II Men, and *NSYNC.\n\nContemporary a cappella includes many vocal groups and bands who add vocal percussion or beatboxing to create a pop/rock/gospel sound, in some cases very similar to bands with instruments. Examples of such professional groups include Straight No Chaser, Pentatonix, The House Jacks, Rockapella, Mosaic, Home Free and M-pact. There also remains a strong a cappella presence within Christian music, as some denominations purposefully do not use instruments during worship. Examples of such groups are Take 6, Glad and Acappella. Arrangements of popular music for small a cappella ensembles typically include one voice singing the lead melody, one singing a rhythmic bass line, and the remaining voices contributing chordal or polyphonic accompaniment.\n\nA cappella can also describe the isolated vocal track(s) from a multitrack recording that originally included instrumentation. These vocal tracks may be remixed or put onto vinyl records for DJs, or released to the public so that fans can remix them. One such example is the a cappella release of Jay-Z's \"Black Album\", which Danger Mouse mixed with The Beatles' \"White Album\" to create \"The Grey Album\".\n\nOn their 1966 album titled \"Album\", Peter, Paul and Mary included the song \"Norman Normal.\" All the sounds on that song, both vocals and instruments, were created by Paul's voice, with no actual instruments used.\n\nIn 2013, an artist by the name Smooth McGroove rose to prominence with his style of a cappella music. He is best known for his a cappella covers of video game music tracks on YouTube.\n\nin 2015, an a cappella version of Jerusalem by multi-instrumentalist Jacob Collier was selected for Beats by Dre \"The Game Starts Here\" for the England Rugby World Cup campaign.\n\nA cappella has been used as the sole orchestration for original works of musical theatre that have had commercial runs Off-Broadway (theatres in New York City with 99 to 500 seats) only four times. The first was Avenue X which opened on 28 January 1994 and ran for 77 performances. It was produced by Playwrights Horizons with book by John Jiler, music and lyrics by Ray Leslee. The musical style of the show's score was primarily Doo-Wop as the plot revolved around Doo-Wop group singers of the 1960s.\n\nIn 2001, The Kinsey Sicks, produced and starred in the critically acclaimed off-Broadway hit, \"DRAGAPELLA! Starring the Kinsey Sicks\" at New York's legendary Studio 54. That production received a nomination for a Lucille Lortel award as Best Musical and a Drama Desk nomination for Best Lyrics. It was directed by Glenn Casale with original music and lyrics by Ben Schatz.\n\nThe a cappella musical Perfect Harmony, a comedy about two high school a cappella groups vying to win the National championship, made its Off Broadway debut at Theatre Row's Acorn Theatre on 42nd Street in New York City in October, 2010 after a successful out-of-town run at the Stoneham Theatre, in Stoneham, Massachusetts. Perfect Harmony features the hit music of The Jackson 5, Pat Benatar, Billy Idol, Marvin Gaye, Scandal, Tiffany, The Romantics, The Pretenders, The Temptations, The Contours, The Commodores, Tommy James & the Shondells and The Partridge Family, and has been compared to a cross between Altar Boyz and The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee.\n\nThe fourth a cappella musical to appear Off-Broadway, In Transit, premiered 5 October 2010 and was produced by Primary Stages with book, music, and lyrics by Kristen Anderson-Lopez, James-Allen Ford, Russ Kaplan, and Sara Wordsworth. Set primarily in the New York City subway system its score features an eclectic mix of musical genres (including jazz, hip hop, Latin, rock, and country). In Transit incorporates vocal beat boxing into its contemporary a cappella arrangements through the use of a subway beat boxer character. Beat boxer and actor Chesney Snow performed this role for the 2010 Primary Stages production. According to the show's website, it is scheduled to reopen for an open-ended commercial run in the Fall of 2011. In 2011, the production received four Lucille Lortel Award nominations including Outstanding Musical, Outer Critics Circle and Drama League nominations, as well as five Drama Desk nominations including Outstanding Musical and won for Outstanding Ensemble Performance.\n\nIn December 2016, In Transit became the first a cappella musical on Broadway.\n\nBarbershop music is one of several uniquely American art forms. The earliest reports of this style of a cappella music involved African Americans. The earliest documented quartets all began in barber shops. In 1938, the first formal men's barbershop organization was formed, known as the Society for the Preservation and Encouragement of Barber Shop Quartet Singing in America (S.P.E.B.S.Q.S.A), and in 2004 rebranded itself and officially changed its public name to the Barbershop Harmony Society (BHS). Today the BHS has about 22,000 members in approximately 800 chapters across the United States and Canada, and the barbershop style has spread around the world with organizations in many other countries. The Barbershop Harmony Society provides a highly organized competition structure for a cappella quartets and choruses singing in the barbershop style.\n\nIn 1945, the first formal women's barbershop organization, Sweet Adelines, was formed. In 1953, Sweet Adelines became an international organization, although it didn't change its name to Sweet Adelines International until 1991. The membership of nearly 25,000 women, all singing in English, includes choruses in most of the fifty United States as well as in Australia, Canada, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands. Headquartered in Tulsa, Oklahoma, the organization encompasses more than 1,200 registered quartets and 600 choruses.\n\nIn 1959, a second women's barbershop organization started as a break off from Sweet Adelines due to ideological differences. Based on democratic principles which continue to this day, Harmony, Inc. is smaller than its counterpart, but has an atmosphere of friendship and competition. With about 2,500 members in the United States and Canada, Harmony, Inc. uses the same rules in contest that the Barbershop Harmony Society uses. Harmony, Inc. is registered in Providence, Rhode Island.\n\nThe popularity of a cappella among high schools and amateurs was revived by television shows and movies such as \"Glee\" and \"Pitch Perfect\". High school groups have conductors or student leaders who keep the tempo for the group.\n\nThe musical show \"Strepsils Stereo\" is credited for introducing the art of a cappella in Pakistan.\n\nComposer Dinesh Subasinghe became the first Sri Lankan to write a cappella pieces for SATB choirs. He wrote \"The Princes of the Lost Tribe\" and \"Ancient Queen of Somawathee\" for Menaka De Shabandu and Bridget Halpe's choirs, respectively, based on historical incidents in ancient Sri Lanka. Voice Print is also a professional a cappella music group in Sri Lanka.\n\nThe European a cappella tradition is especially strong in the countries around the Baltic and perhaps most so in Sweden as described by Richard Sparks in his doctoral thesis \"The Swedish Choral Miracle\" in 2000.\n\nSwedish a cappella choirs have over the last 25 years won around 25% of the annual prestigious European Grand Prix for Choral Singing (EGP) that despite its name is open to choirs from all over the world (see list of laureates in the Wikipedia article on the EGP competition).\n\nThe reasons for the strong Swedish dominance are as explained by Richard Sparks manifold; suffice to say here that there is a long-standing tradition, an unsusually large proportion of the populations (5% is often cited) regularly sing in choirs, the Swedish choral director Eric Ericson had an enormous impact on a cappella choral development not only in Sweden but around the world, and finally there are a large number of very popular primary and secondary schools (\"music schools\") with high admission standards based on auditions that combine a rigid academic regimen with high level choral singing on every school day, a system that started with Adolf Fredrik's Music School in Stockholm in 1939 but has spread over the country.\n\nA cappella has gained attention in the UK in recent years, with many groups forming at British universities by students seeking an alternative singing pursuit to traditional choral and chapel singing. This movement has been bolstered by organisations such as The Voice Festival UK.\n\nIt is not clear exactly where collegiate a cappella began. The Rensselyrics of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (formerly known as the RPI Glee Club), established in 1873 is perhaps the oldest known collegiate a cappella group. However the longest continuously-singing group is probably The Whiffenpoofs of Yale University, which was formed in 1909 and once included Cole Porter as a member. Collegiate a cappella groups grew throughout the 20th century. Some notable historical groups formed along the way include Colgate University's The Colgate 13 (1942), Dartmouth College's Aires (1946), Cornell University's Cayuga's Waiters (1949) and The Hangovers (1968), the University of Maine Maine Steiners (1958), the Columbia University Kingsmen (1949), the Jabberwocks of Brown University (1949), and the University of Rochester YellowJackets (1956).\n\nAll-women a cappella groups followed shortly, frequently as a parody of the men's groups: the Smiffenpoofs of Smith College (1936), The Shwiffs of Connecticut College (The She-Whiffenpoofs, 1944), and The Chattertocks of Brown University (1951). A cappella groups exploded in popularity beginning in the 1990s, fueled in part by a change in style popularized by the Tufts University Beelzebubs and the Boston University Dear Abbeys. The new style used voices to emulate modern rock instruments, including vocal percussion/\"beatboxing\". Some larger universities now have multiple groups. Groups often join one another in on-campus concerts, such as the Georgetown Chimes' Cherry Tree Massacre, a 3-weekend a cappella festival held each February since 1975, where over a hundred collegiate groups have appeared, as well as International Quartet Champions The Boston Common and the contemporary commercial a cappella group Rockapella. Co-ed groups have produced many up-and-coming and major artists, including John Legend, an alumnus of the Counterparts at the University of Pennsylvania, and Sara Bareilles, an alumna of Awaken A Cappella at University of California, Los Angeles. Mira Sorvino is an alumna of the Harvard-Radcliffe Veritones of Harvard College, where she had the solo on Only You by Yaz.\n\nA cappella is gaining popularity among South Asians with the emergence of primarily Hindi-English College groups. The first South Asian a cappella group was Penn Masala, founded in 1996 at the University of Pennsylvania. Co-ed South Asian a cappella groups are also gaining in popularity. The first co-ed south Asian a cappella was Anokha, from the University of Maryland, formed in 2001. Also, Dil se, another co-ed a cappella from UC Berkeley, hosts the \"Anahat\" competition at the University of California, Berkeley annually. Maize Mirchi, the co-ed a cappella group from the University of Michigan hosts \"Sa Re Ga Ma Pella\", an annual South Asian a cappella invitational with various groups from the Midwest. Another South Asian group from the Midwest is Chai Town who is based in the University of Illinois at Urbana- Champaign.\n\nJewish-interest groups such as Queens College's Tizmoret, Tufts University's Shir Appeal, University of Chicago's Rhythm and Jews, Binghamton University's Kaskeset, Ohio State University's Meshuganotes, Rutgers University's Kol Halayla, New York University's Ani V'Ata and Yale University's Magevet are also gaining popularity across the U.S.\n\nIncreased interest in modern a cappella (particularly collegiate a cappella) can be seen in the growth of awards such as the Contemporary A Cappella Recording Awards (overseen by the Contemporary A Cappella Society) and competitions such as the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella for college groups and the Harmony Sweepstakes for all groups. In December 2009, a new television competition series called \"The Sing-Off\" aired on NBC. The show featured eight a cappella groups from the United States and Puerto Rico vying for the prize of $100,000 and a recording contract with Epic Records/Sony Music. The show was judged by Ben Folds, Shawn Stockman, and Nicole Scherzinger and was won by an all-male group from Puerto Rico called Nota. The show returned for a second, third and fourth season, won by Committed, Pentatonix and Home Free respectively.\n\nEach year, hundreds of Collegiate a cappella groups submit their strongest songs in a competition to be on The Best of College A Cappella (BOCA), an album compilation of tracks from the best college a cappella groups around the world. The album is produced by Varsity Vocals – which also produces the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella – and Deke Sharon. ). According to ethnomusicologist Joshua S. Dunchan, \"BOCA carries considerable cache and respect within the field despite the appearance of other compilations in part, perhaps, because of its longevity and the prestige of the individuals behind it.\"\n\nCollegiate a cappella groups may also submit their tracks to Voices Only, a two-disc series released at the beginning of each school year. A Voices Only album has been released every year since 2005.\n\nIn addition, all women's a cappella groups can send their strongest song tracks to the Women's A Cappella Association (WACA) for its annual best of women's a cappella album. WACA offers another medium for women's voices to receive recognition and has released an album every year since 2014, featuring women's groups from across the United States.\n\nIn addition to singing words, some a cappella singers also emulate instrumentation by reproducing instrumental sounds with their vocal cords and mouth, often pitched using specialised pitch pipes. One of the earliest 20th century practitioners of this method were The Mills Brothers whose early recordings of the 1930s clearly stated on the label that all instrumentation was done vocally. More recently, \"Twilight Zone\" by 2 Unlimited was sung a cappella to the instrumentation on the comedy television series \"Tompkins Square\". Another famous example of emulating instrumentation instead of singing the words is the theme song for \"The New Addams Family\" series on Fox Family Channel (now ABC Family). Groups such as Vocal Sampling and Undivided emulate Latin rhythms a cappella. In the 1960s, the Swingle Singers used their voices to emulate musical instruments to Baroque and Classical music. Vocal artist Bobby McFerrin is famous for his instrumental emulation. A cappella group Naturally Seven recreates entire songs using vocal tones for every instrument.\n\nThe Swingle Singers used nonsense words to sound like instruments, but have been known to produce non-verbal versions of musical instruments. Beatboxing, more accurately known as vocal percussion, is a technique used in a cappella music popularized by the hip-hop community, where rap is often performed a cappella also. The advent of vocal percussion added new dimensions to the a cappella genre and has become very prevalent in modern arrangements. Jazz vocalist Petra Haden used a four-track recorder to produce an a cappella version of \"The Who Sell Out\" including the instruments and fake advertisements on her album \"\" in 2005. Haden has also released a cappella versions of Journey's \"Don't Stop Believin'\", The Beach Boys' \"God Only Knows\" and Michael Jackson's \"Thriller\".\n\nChristian rock group Relient K recorded the song \"Plead the Fifth\" a cappella on its album \"Five Score and Seven Years Ago\". The group recorded lead singer Matt Thiessen making drum noises and played them with an electronic drum machine to record the song.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "149170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149170", "title": "Academy", "text": "Academy\n\nAn academy (Attic Greek: Ἀκαδήμεια; Koine Greek Ἀκαδημία) is an institution of secondary education, higher learning, research, or honorary membership.\nThe term academia refers to the worldwide human group composed of professors and researchers at institutes of higher learning.\n\nThe name traces back to Plato's school of philosophy, founded approximately 385 BC at Akademia, a sanctuary of Athena, the goddess of wisdom and skill, north of Athens, Greece.\n\nThe word comes from the \"Academy\" in ancient Greece, which derives from the Athenian hero, \"Akademos\". Outside the city walls of Athens, the gymnasium was made famous by Plato as a center of learning. The sacred space, dedicated to the goddess of wisdom, Athena, had formerly been an olive grove, hence the expression \"the groves of Academe.\"\n\nIn these gardens, the philosopher Plato conversed with followers. Plato developed his sessions into a method of teaching philosophy and in 387 BC, established what is known today as the Old Academy.\n\nBy extension \"academia\" has come to mean the cultural accumulation of knowledge, its development and transmission across generations and its practitioners and transmitters. In the 17th century, British, Italian and French scholars used the term to describe types of institutions of higher learning.\n\nBefore \"Akademia\" was a school, and even before Cimon enclosed its precincts with a wall, it contained a sacred grove of olive trees dedicated to Athena, the goddess of wisdom, outside the city walls of ancient Athens. The archaic name for the site was \"Hekademia\", which by classical times evolved into \"Akademia\" and was explained, at least as early as the beginning of the 6th century BC, by linking it to an Athenian hero, a legendary \"Akademos\". The site of \"Akademia\" was sacred to Athena and other immortals.\n\nPlato's immediate successors as \"scholarch\" of \"Akademia\" were Speusippus (347–339 BC), Xenocrates (339–314 BC), Polemon (314–269 BC), Crates (ca. 269–266 BC), and Arcesilaus (ca. 266–240 BC). Later scholarchs include Lacydes of Cyrene, Carneades, Clitomachus, and Philo of Larissa (\"the last undisputed head of the Academy\"). Other notable members of \"Akademia\" include Aristotle, Heraclides Ponticus, Eudoxus of Cnidus, Philip of Opus, Crantor, and Antiochus of Ascalon.\n\nAfter a lapse during the early Roman occupation, \"Akademia\" was refounded as a new institution of some outstanding Platonists of late antiquity who called themselves \"successors\" (\"diadochoi\", but of Plato) and presented themselves as an uninterrupted tradition reaching back to Plato. However, there cannot have actually been any geographical, institutional, economic or personal continuity with the original Academy in the new organizational entity.\n\nThe last \"Greek\" philosophers of the revived \"Akademia\" in the 6th century were drawn from various parts of the Hellenistic cultural world and suggest the broad syncretism of the common culture (see \"koine\"): Five of the seven \"Akademia\" philosophers mentioned by Agathias were Syriac in their cultural origin: Hermias and Diogenes (both from Phoenicia), Isidorus of Gaza, Damascius of Syria, Iamblichus of Coele-Syria and perhaps even Simplicius of Cilicia.\n\nThe emperor Justinian closed the school in AD 529, a date that is often cited as the end of Antiquity. According to the sole witness, the historian Agathias, its remaining members looked for protection under the rule of Sassanid king Khosrau I in his capital at Ctesiphon, carrying with them precious scrolls of literature and philosophy, and to a lesser degree of science. After a peace treaty between the Persian and the Byzantine empire in 532 guaranteed their personal security (an early document in the history of freedom of religion), some members found sanctuary in the pagan stronghold of Harran, near Edessa. One of the last leading figures of this group was Simplicius, a pupil of Damascius, the last head of the Athenian school.\n\nIt has been speculated that \"Akademia\" did not altogether disappear. After his exile, Simplicius (and perhaps some others), may have travelled to Harran, near Edessa. From there, the students of an Academy-in-exile could have survived into the 9th century, long enough to facilitate the Arabic revival of the Neoplatonist commentary tradition in Baghdad.\n\nIn ancient Greece, after the establishment of the original Academy, Plato's colleagues and pupils developed spin-offs of his method. Arcesilaus, a Greek student of Plato established the Middle Academy. Carneades, another student, established the New Academy. In 335 BC, Aristotle refined the method with his own theories and established the Lyceum in another gymnasium.\n\nThe library of Alexandria in Egypt was frequented by intellectuals from Africa, Europe and Asia studying various aspects of philosophy, language and mathematics.\n\nThe University of Timbuktu was a medieval university in Timbuktu, present-day Mali, which comprised three schools: the Mosque of Djinguereber, the Mosque of Sidi Yahya, and the Mosque of Sankore. During its zenith, the university had an average attendance of around 25,000 students within a city of around 100,000 people.\n\nIn China a higher education institution Shang Xiang was founded by Shun in the Youyu era before the 21st century BC. The Imperial Central Academy at Nanjing, founded in 258, was a result of the evolution of Shang Xiang and it became the first comprehensive institution combining education and research and was divided into five faculties in 470, which later became Nanjing University.\n\nIn the 8th century another kind of institution of learning emerged, named Shuyuan, which were generally privately owned. There were thousands of Shuyuan recorded in ancient times. The degrees from them varied from one to another and those advanced Shuyuan such as Bailudong Shuyuan and Yuelu Shuyuan can be classified as higher institutions of learning.\n\nTaxila or Takshashila, in ancient India, modern-day Pakistan, was an early centre of learning, near present-day Islamabad in the city of Taxila. It is considered as one of the ancient universities of the world. According to scattered references which were only fixed a millennium later it may have dated back to at least the 5th century BC. Some scholars date Takshashila's existence back to the 6th century BC. The school consisted of several monasteries without large dormitories or lecture halls where the religious instruction was most likely still provided on an individualistic basis. Takshashila is described in some detail in later Jātaka tales, written in Sri Lanka around the 5th century AD.\n\nIt became a noted centre of learning at least several centuries BC, and continued to attract students until the destruction of the city in the 5th century AD. Takshashila is perhaps best known because of its association with Chanakya. The famous treatise Arthashastra (Sanskrit for The knowledge of Economics) by Chanakya, is said to have been composed in Takshashila itself. Chanakya (or Kautilya), the Maurya Emperor Chandragupta and the Ayurvedic healer Charaka studied at Taxila.\n\nGenerally, a student entered Takshashila at the age of sixteen. The Vedas and the Eighteen Arts, which included skills such as archery, hunting, and elephant lore, were taught, in addition to its law school, medical school, and school of military science.\n\nNalanda was established in the 5th century AD in Bihar, India. It was founded in 427 in northeastern India, not far from what is today the southern border of Nepal. It survived until 1197 when it was set upon, destroyed and burnt by the marauding forces of Ikhtiyar Uddin Muhammad bin Bakhtiyar Khilji. It was devoted to Buddhist studies, but it also trained students in fine arts, medicine, mathematics, astronomy, politics and the art of war.\n\nThe center had eight separate compounds, 10 temples, meditation halls, classrooms, lakes and parks. It had a nine-story library where monks meticulously copied books and documents so that individual scholars could have their own collections. It had dormitories for students, perhaps a first for an educational institution, housing 10,000 students in the university’s heyday and providing accommodation for 2,000 professors. Nalanda University attracted pupils and scholars from Korea, Japan, China, Tibet, Indonesia, Persia and Turkey.\n\nFounded in Fes, University of Al-Karaouine in the 9th century and in Cairo, Al-Azhar University in the 10th century, and in Mali, the University of Timbuktu in about 1100. Mustansiriya Madrasah in Baghdad, Iraq was established in 1227 as a madrasah by the Abbasid Caliph al-Mustansir. Its library had an initial collection of 80,000 volumes, given by the Caliph. The collection was said to have grown to 400,000 volumes.\n\nIn Europe, the academy dates to the ancient Greeks and Romans in the pre-Christian era. Newer universities were founded in the 12th and 13th centuries, and the European institution of academia took shape. Monks and priests moved out of monasteries to cathedral cities and other towns where they opened the first schools dedicated to advanced study.\n\nThe most notable of these new schools were in Bologna, Salamanca, Paris, Oxford and Cambridge, while others were opened throughout Europe.\n\nThe seven liberal arts — the Trivium (Grammar, Rhetoric, and Logic), and the Quadrivium (Arithmetic, Geometry, Music, and Astronomy) — had been codified in late antiquity. This was the basis of the curriculum in Europe until newly available Arabic texts and the works of Aristotle became more available in Europe in the 12th century.\n\nIt remained in place even after the new scholasticism of the School of Chartres and the encyclopedic work of Thomas Aquinas, until the humanism of the 15th and 16th centuries opened new studies of arts and sciences.\n\nWith the Neoplatonist revival that accompanied the revival of humanist studies, \"accademia\" took on newly vivid connotations.\n\nDuring the Florentine Renaissance, Cosimo de' Medici took a personal interest in the new Platonic Academy that he determined to re-establish in 1439, centered on the marvellous promise shown by the young Marsilio Ficino. Cosimo had been inspired by the arrival at the otherwise ineffective Council of Florence of Gemistos Plethon, who seemed a dazzling figure to the Florentine intellectuals. In 1462 Cosimo gave Ficino a villa at Careggi for the Academy's use, situated where Cosimo could see it from his own villa, and drop by for visits. The academy remained a wholly informal group, but one which had a great influence on Renaissance Neo-Platonism.\nIn Rome, after unity was restored following the Western Schism, humanist circles, cultivating philosophy and searching out and sharing ancient texts tended to gather where there was access to a library. The Vatican Library was not coordinated until 1475 and was never catalogued or widely accessible: not all popes looked with satisfaction at gatherings of unsupervised intellectuals. At the head of this movement for renewal in Rome was Cardinal Bessarion, whose house from the mid-century was the centre of a flourishing academy of Neoplatonic philosophy and a varied intellectual culture. His valuable Greek as well as Latin library (eventually bequeathed to the city of Venice after he withdrew from Rome) was at the disposal of the academicians. Bessarion, in the latter years of his life, retired from Rome to Ravenna, but he left behind him ardent adherents of the classic philosophy.\n\nThe next generation of humanists were bolder admirers of pagan culture, especially in the highly personal academy of Pomponius Leto, the natural son of a nobleman of the Sanseverino family, born in Calabria but known by his academic name, who devoted his energies to the enthusiastic study of classical antiquity, and attracted a great number of disciples and admirers. He was a worshipper not merely of the literary and artistic form, but also of the ideas and spirit of classic paganism, which made him appear a condemner of Christianity and an enemy of the Church. In his academy every member assumed a classical name. Its principal members were humanists, like Bessarion's protégé Giovanni Antonio Campani (Campanus), Bartolomeo Platina, the papal librarian, and Filippo Buonaccorsi, and young visitors who received polish in the academic circle, like Publio Fausto Andrelini of Bologna who took the New Learning to the University of Paris, to the discomfiture of his friend Erasmus. In their self-confidence, these first intellectual neopagans compromised themselves politically, at a time when Rome was full of conspiracies fomented by the Roman barons and the neighbouring princes: Paul II (1464–71) caused Pomponio and the leaders of the academy to be arrested on charges of irreligion, immorality, and conspiracy against the Pope. The prisoners begged so earnestly for mercy, and with such protestations of repentance, that they were pardoned. The Letonian academy, however, collapsed.\n\nIn Naples, the \"Quattrocento\" academy founded by Alfonso of Aragon and guided by Antonio Beccadelli was the \"Porticus Antoniana\", later known as the \"Accademia Pontaniana\", after Giovanni Pontano.\n\nThe 16th century saw at Rome a great increase of literary and aesthetic academies, more or less inspired by the Renaissance, all of which assumed, as was the fashion, odd and fantastic names. We learn from various sources the names of many such institutes; as a rule, they soon perished and left no trace. In the 1520s came the \"Accademia degli Intronati\", for the encouragement of theatrical representations. There were also the Academy of the \"Vignaiuoli\", or \"Vinegrowers\" (1530), and the \"\" (1542), founded by Claudio Tolomei under the patronage of Cardinal Ippolito de' Medici. These were followed by a new academy in the \"Orti\" or Farnese gardens. There were also the academies of the \"Intrepidi\" (1560), the \"Animosi\" (1576), and the \"Illuminati\" (1598); this last, founded by the Marchesa Isabella Aldobrandini Pallavicino. Towards the middle of the 16th century there were also the Academy of the \"Notti Vaticane\", or \"Vatican Nights\", founded by St. Charles Borromeo; an \"Accademia di Diritto civile e canonico\", and another of the university scholars and students of philosophy (Accademia Eustachiana). As a rule these academies, all very much alike, were merely circles of friends or clients gathered around a learned man or wealthy patron, and were dedicated to literary pastimes rather than methodical study. They fitted in, nevertheless, with the general situation and were in their own way one element of the historical development. Despite their empirical and fugitive character, they helped to keep up the general esteem for literary and other studies. Cardinals, prelates, and the clergy in general were most favourable to this movement, and assisted it by patronage and collaboration.\n\nIn Florence, the Medici again took the lead in establishing the Accademia e Compagnia delle Arti del Disegno in 1563, the first of the more formally organised art academies that gradually displaced the medieval artists' guilds, usually known as the Guild of Saint Luke, as the bodies responsible for training and often regulating artists, a change with great implications for the development of art, leading to the styles known as Academic art. The private Accademia degli Incamminati set up later in the century in Bologna by the Carracci brothers was also extremely influential, and with the Accademia di San Luca of Rome (founded 1593) helped to confirm the use of the term for these institutions.\n\nGradually academies began to specialize on particular topics (arts, language, sciences) and began to be founded and funded by the kings and other sovereigns (few republics had an academy). And, mainly, since 17th century academies spread throughout Europe.\n\nIn the 17th century the tradition of literary-philosophical academies, as circles of friends gathering around learned patrons, was continued in Italy; the \"Umoristi\" (1611), the \"Fantastici (1625), and the \"Ordinati\", founded by Cardinal Dati and Giulio Strozzi. About 1700 were founded the academies of the \"Infecondi\", the \"Occulti\", the \"Deboli\", the \"Aborigini\", the \"Immobili\", the \"Accademia Esquilina\", and others. During the 18th century many Italian cities established similar philosophical and scientific academies. In the first half of the 19th century some of these became the national academies of pre-unitarian states: the Academy of Accesi became the Panomitan Academy of Buon Gusto (Trento); the Academy of Timidi became the Royal Academy of Mantua; the Accademia dei Ricovrati became the Galileiana Academy of Arts and Science (Padova); the Academy of Dissonanti became the Royal Academy of Modena and the Academy of Oscuri became the Royal Academy of Lucca.\n\nThe Académie de peinture et de sculpture in Paris, established by the monarchy in 1648 (later renamed) was the most significant of the artistic academies, running the famous Salon exhibitions from 1725. Artistic academies were established all over Europe by the end of the 18th century, and many, like the Akademie der Künste in Berlin (founded 1696), the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando in Madrid (founded 1744), the Imperial Academy of Arts in Saint Petersburg (1757), the Royal Academy in London (1768) and the Accademia di Belle Arti di Brera in Milan (1776) still run art schools and hold large exhibitions, although their influence on taste greatly declined from the late 19th century.\n\nA fundamental feature of academic discipline in the artistic academies was regular practice in making accurate drawings from antiquities, or from casts of antiquities, on the one hand, and on the other, in deriving inspiration from the other fount, the human form. Students assembled in sessions drawing the draped and undraped human form, and such drawings, which survive in the tens of thousands from the 17th through the 19th century, are termed académies in French.\n\nSimilar institutions were often established for other arts: Rome had the Accademia di Santa Cecilia for music from 1585; Paris had the Académie Royale de Musique from 1669 and the Académie Royale d'Architecture from 1671.\n\nThe Accademia degli Infiammati of Padova and the Accademia degli Umidi, soon renamed the Accademia Fiorentina, of Florence were both founded in 1540, and were both initially concerned with the proper basis for literary use of the \"volgare\", or vernacular language of Italy, which would later become the Italian language. In 1582 five Florentine literati gathered and founded the Accademia della Crusca to demonstrate and conserve the beauty of the Florentine vernacular tongue, modelled upon the authors of the Trecento. The main instrument to do so was the \"Vocabolario degli Accademici della Crusca\". The Crusca long remained a private institution, criticizing and opposing the official Accademia Fiorentina.\n\nThe first institution inspired by the Crusca was the Fruitbearing Society for German language, which existed from 1617 to 1680.\n\nThe Crusca inspired Richelieu to found in 1634 the analogous Académie française with the task of acting as an official authority on the French language, charged with publishing the official dictionary of that language. The following year the Académie received letters patent from the king Louis XIII as the only recognized academy for French language.\n\nIn its turn the state established Académie was the model for the Real Academia Española (founded in 1713) and the Swedish Academy (1786), which are the ruling bodies of their respective languages and editors of major dictionaries. It also was the model for the Russian Academy, founded in 1783, which afterwards merged into the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nAfter the short-lived Academia Secretorum Naturae of Naples, the first academy exclusively devoted to sciences was the Accademia dei Lincei founded in 1603 in Rome, particularly focused on natural sciences.\nIn 1657 some students of Galileo founded the Accademia del Cimento (Academy of Experiment) in Florence, focused on physics and astronomy. The foundation of Academy was funded by Prince Leopoldo and Grand Duke Ferdinando II de' Medici. This academy lasted after few decades.\n\nIn 1652 was founded the Academia Naturae Curiosorum by four physicians. In 1677, Leopold I, emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, recognised the society and in 1687 he gave it the epithet \"Leopoldina\", with which is internationally famous.\nSo, it became the academy of sciences for the whole Holy Roman Empire.\n\nOn 28 November 1660, a group of scientists from and influenced by the Invisible College (gathering approximately since 1645) met at Gresham College and announced the formation of a \"College for the Promoting of Physico-Mathematical Experimental Learning\", which would meet weekly to discuss science and run experiments. In 1662 Charles II of England signed a Royal Charter which created the \"Royal Society of London\", then \"Royal Society of London for the Improvement of Natural Knowledge\".\n\nIn 1666 Colbert gathered a small group of scholars to found a scientific society in Paris. The first 30 years of the Academy's existence were relatively informal, since no statutes had as yet been laid down for the institution. In contrast to Royal Society, the Academy was founded as an organ of government. In 1699, Louis XIV gave the Academy its first rules and named it Académie royale des sciences.\n\nAlthough Prussia was a member of Holy Roman Empire, in 1700 Prince-elector Frederick III of Brandenburg founded its own Prussian Academy of Sciences upon the advice of Gottfried Leibniz, who was appointed president.\n\nDuring the 18th century many European kings followed and founded their own academy of sciences: in 1714 the Academy of Sciences of the Institute of Bologna, in 1724 the Russian Academy of Sciences, in 1731 the Royal Dublin Society, in 1735 in Tuscany, in 1739 the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, in 1742 the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters, in 1751 the Göttingen Academy of Sciences, in 1754 in Erfurt, in 1759 the Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities, in 1763 the Academia Theodoro-Palatina in Heidelberg, in 1779 the Sciences Academy of Lisbon, in 1783 the Royal Society of Edinburgh, in 1782 the Accademia dei Quaranta in Rome, in 1784 in Turin.\n\nThis kind of academy lost importance after the university reform begun with the foundation of the University of Berlin, when universities were provided with laboratories and clinics, and were charged with doing experimental research.\n\nAcademic societies or learned societies began as groups of academics who worked together or presented their work to each other. These informal groups later became organized and in many cases state-approved. Membership was restricted, usually requiring approval of the current members and often total membership was limited to a specific number. The Royal Society founded in 1660 was the first such academy. The American Academy of Arts and Sciences was begun in 1780 by many of the same people prominent in the American Revolution. Academic societies served both as a forum to present and publish academic work, the role now served by academic publishing, and as a means to sponsor research and support academics, a role they still serve. Membership in academic societies is still a matter of prestige in modern academia.\n\nAt first such institutions only trained the Artillery and Military Engineering officers, like the \"Aula da Artilharia\" (founded in 1641) and the \"Aula de Fortificação\" (1647) in Lisbon, the Real Accademia di Savoia in Turin (opened in 1678), the Imperial Artillery Military Academy of Saint Petersburg (1698), the Royal Military Academy Woolwich (1741), the \"Real Colegio de Artilleria\" in Segovia (1764).\n\nStarting at the end of the 16th century in the Holy Roman Empire, France, Poland and Denmark, many Knight academies were established to prepare the aristocratic youth for state and military service. Many of them lately turned into gymnasiums, but some of them were transformed into true military academies.\n\nThe Royal Danish Military Academy began to educate all officers for the Royal Danish Army by request of King Frederick IV in 1713.\n\nThe École Militaire was founded by Louis XV of France in 1750 with the aim of creating an academic college for cadet officers from poor families. The construction began in 1752, but the school did not open until 1760.\n\nThe Theresian Military Academy was founded on 14 December 1751 by Maria Theresa of Austria. Per year the Academy accepted 100 noblemen and 100 commoners to start their education there.<br>\nThese were the model for the subsequent military academies throughout Europe, like the \"Reale Accademia Militare\" of Naples in 1787 and the Military Academy Karlberg in 1792.\n\nThe term is used widely today to refer to anything from schools to learned societies to funding agencies to private industry associations.\n\nNational academies are bodies for scientists, artists or writers that are usually state-funded and often are given the role of controlling much of the state funding for research into their areas, or other forms of funding. Some use different terms in their name – the British Royal Society for example. The membership typically comprises distinguished individuals in the relevant field, who may be elected by the other members, or appointed by the government. They are essentially not schools or colleges, though some may operate teaching arms. The Académie Française was the most influential pattern for these. Finland even has two separate \"academies\": Academy of Finland is a government-run funding agency, Suomalainen tiedeakatemia is a learned society.\n\nThe Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which presents the annual Academy Awards, is an example of a purely industry body using the name. College-type specialized academies include the Royal Academy of Music of the United Kingdom; the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York; the United States Naval Academy; United States Air Force Academy; and the Australian Defence Force Academy. In emulation of the military academies, police in the United States are trained in police academies.\n\nBecause of the tradition of intellectual brilliance associated with this institution, many groups have chosen to use the word \"academy\" in their name, especially specialized tertiary educational institutions. In the early 19th century \"academy\" took the connotations that \"gymnasium\" was acquiring in German-speaking lands, of school that was less advanced than a college (for which it might prepare students) but considerably more than elementary. Early American examples are the prestigious preparatory schools of Phillips Andover Academy, Phillips Exeter Academy and Deerfield Academy. In England, \"academy\" had a specialized meaning for schools, but the Edinburgh Academy was more like the American examples. Academy was also used very loosely for various commercial training schools for dancing and the like.\n\nMozart organized public subscription performances of his music in Vienna in the 1780s and 1790s, he called the concerts \"academies\". This usage in musical terms survives in the concert orchestra Academy of St Martin in the Fields and in the Brixton Academy, a concert hall in Brixton, South London.\n\nAcademies proliferated in the 20th century until even a three-week series of lectures and discussions would be termed an \"academy\". In addition, the generic term \"the academy\" is sometimes used to refer to all of academia, which is sometimes considered a global successor to the Academy of Athens.\n\nIn France, regional academic councils called academies are responsible for supervising all aspects of education in their region. The academy regions are similar to, but not identical to, the standard French administrative regions. the rector of each academy is a revocable nominee of the Ministry of Education. These academies' main responsibility is overseeing primary and secondary education, but public universities are in some respects also answerable to the academy for their region. However, French private universities are independent of the state and therefore independent of the regional academies.\n\nIn Imperial Russia and Soviet Union the term \"academy\", or Academy of Sciences was reserved to denote a state research establishment, see Russian Academy of Sciences. The latter one still exists in Russia, although other types of academies (study and honorary) appeared as well.\n\nFrom the mid-seventeenth to the 19th centuries, educational institutions in England run by nonconformist groups that did not agree with the Church of England teachings were collectively known as \"the dissenting academies\". As a place at an English public school or university generally required conformity to the Church of England, these institutions provided an alternative for those with different religious views and formed a significant part of England’s educational system.\n\nUniversity College London (UCL) was founded in 1826 as the first publicly funded English university to admit anyone regardless of religious adherence; and the Test and Corporation Acts, which had imposed a wide range of restrictions on citizens who were not in conformity to the Church of England, were abolished shortly afterwards, by the Catholic Relief Act of 1829.\n\nIn 2000, a form of \"independent state schools\", called \"academies\", were introduced in England. They have been compared to US charter schools. They are directly funded from central government rather than through local councils, and are partly privately sponsored. Often the sponsors are from business, but some are sponsored by universities and charities. These schools have greater autonomy than schools run by the local councils. They are usually a type of secondary school, but some are \"all through\" schools with an integral primary school. Some of the early ones were briefly known as \"city academies\"—the first such school opening on 10 September 2002 at the Business Academy Bexley.\n\nThe Queen's Speech, which followed the 2010 general election, included proposals for a bill to allow the Secretary of State for Education to approve schools, both Primary and Secondary, that have been graded \"outstanding\" by Ofsted, to become academies. This will be through a simplified streamlined process which will not require the sponsors to provide capital funding.\n\nIn 2012, the UK government began forcing some schools which had been graded satisfactory or lower into becoming academies, unilaterally removing existing governing bodies and head teachers in some cases. An example was Downhills Primary School in Haringey, where the head teacher refused to turn the school into an academy. OFSTED were called in to assess the school, failed it, and both the head and the governing body were removed and replaced with a Government-appointed board despite opposition from the school and parents.\n\nPrior to the twentieth century, education was not as carefully structured in the United States as it is in the twenty-first. There was not a rigid division between high school and colleges. In many cases, educational records were not kept nor diplomas issued.\n\nA reference to academia, in the United States, is to post-secondary education, especially the most elite or liberal arts part of it. However, an academy was what later became known as a high school. Some older high schools, such as Corning Free Academy, retained the term in their names (Corning Free Academy, demoted to a middle school, closed in 2014). However, the United States Military Academy is a college. A number of colleges began as (high school) academies.\n\nAcademia began to splinter from its Christian roots in 18th-century colonial America. In 1753, Benjamin Franklin established the Academy and Charitable School of the Province of Pennsylvania. In 1755, it was renamed the College and Academy and Charitable School of Philadelphia. Today, it is known as the University of Pennsylvania. For the first time, academia was established as a secular institution. For the most part, church-based dogmatic points of view were no longer thrust upon students in the examination of their subjects of study. Points of view became more varied as students were free to wander in thought without having to add religious dimensions to their conclusions.\n\nIn 1819, Thomas Jefferson founded the University of Virginia and developed the standards used today in organizing colleges and universities across the globe. The curriculum was taken from the traditional liberal arts, classical humanism and the values introduced with the Protestant Reformation. Jefferson offered his students something new: the freedom to chart their own courses of study rather than mandate a fixed curriculum for all students. Religious colleges and universities followed suit.\n\nThe Academy movement in the U.S. in the early 19th century arose from a public sense that education in the classic disciplines needed to be extended into the new territories and states that were being formed in the Old Northwest, in western New York State, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Indiana and Illinois. Dozens of academies were founded in the area, supported by private donations.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment in 18th-century Europe, the academy started to change in Europe. In the beginning of the 19th century Wilhelm von Humboldt not only published his philosophical paper \"On the Limits of State Action\", but also directed the educational system in Prussia for a short time. He introduced an academic system that was much more accessible to the lower classes. Humboldt's Ideal was an education based on individuality, creativity, wholeness, and versatility. Many continental European universities are still rooted in these ideas (or at least pay lip-service to them). They are, however, in contradiction to today's massive trend of specialization in academia.\n\nAn \"academic\" is a person who works as a teacher or researcher at a university or other higher education institution.\nAn academic usually holds an advanced degree.\nThe term \"scholar\" is sometimes used with equivalent meaning to that of \"academic\" and describes in general those who attain mastery in a research discipline. It has wider application, with it also being used to describe those whose occupation was researched prior to organized higher education.\n\nAcademic administrators such as university presidents are not typically included in this use of the term \"academic\", although many administrators hold advanced degrees and pursue scholarly research and writing while also tending to their administrative duties.\n\nIn the United States, the term academic is approximately synonymous with that of the job title professor although in recent decades a growing number of institutions include librarians in the category of \"academic staff.\"\nIn the United Kingdom, various titles of academic rank are used, typically research associate, research fellow (also senior research fellow and principal research fellow), lecturer (also senior lecturer and principal lecturer), reader, and professor. The colloquial term don is sometimes substituted for teaching staff at Oxford and Cambridge.\n\nAcademia is usually conceived of as divided into \"disciplines\" or \"fields\" of study. These have their roots in the subjects of the medieval trivium and quadrivium, which provided the model for scholastic thought in the first universities in medieval Europe.\n\nThe disciplines have been much revised, and many new disciplines have become more specialized, researching smaller and smaller areas. Because of this, \"interdisciplinary\" research is often prized in today's academy, though it can also be made difficult both by practical matters of administration and funding and by differing research methods of different disciplines. In fact, many new fields of study have initially been conceived as interdisciplinary, and later become specialized disciplines in their own right – a recent example is cognitive science.\n\nMost academic institutions reflect the divide of the disciplines in their administrative structure, being divided internally into \"departments\" or \"programs\" in various fields of study. Each department is typically administered and funded separately by the academic institution, though there may be some overlap and faculty members, research and administrative staff may in some cases be shared among departments. In addition, academic institutions generally have an overall administrative structure (usually including a president and several deans) which is controlled by no single department, discipline, or field of thought. Also, the tenure system, a major component of academic employment and research in the US, serves to ensure that academia is relatively protected from political and financial pressures on thought.\n\nThe degree awarded for completed study is the primary academic qualification. Typically these are, in order of completion, associate's degree, bachelor's degree (awarded for completion of undergraduate study), master's degree, and doctorate (awarded after graduate or postgraduate study). These are only currently being standardized in Europe as part of the Bologna process, as many different degrees and standards of time to reach each are currently awarded in different countries in Europe. In most fields the majority of academic researchers and teachers have doctorates or other terminal degrees, though in some professional and creative fields it is common for scholars and teachers to have only master's degrees.\n\nClosely related to academic publishing is the practice of bringing a number of intellectuals in a field to give talks on their research at an academic conference, often allowing for a wider audience to be exposed to their ideas.\n\nWithin academia, diverse constituent groups have diverse, and sometimes conflicting, goals. In the contemporary academy several of these conflicts are widely distributed and common. A salient example of conflict is that between the goal to improve teaching quality and the goal to reduce costs. The conflicting goals of professional education programs and general education advocates currently are playing out in the negotiation over accreditation standards.\n\nPutting theory into practice can result in a gap between what is learned in academic settings and how that learning is manifested in practical settings. This is addressed in a number of professional schools such as education and social work, which require students to participate in practica for credit. Students are taught to bridge the gap between theory and practice.\n\nNot everyone agrees on the value of theory as opposed to practice. Academics are sometimes criticized as lacking practical experience and thus too insulated from the 'real world.' Academic insularity is colloquially criticized as being \"ivory tower\"; when used pejoratively, this term is criticized as anti-intellectualism.\n\nTo address this split, there is a growing body of practice research, such as the practice-based research network (PBRN) within clinical medical research. Arts and humanities departments debate how to define this emerging research phenomenon. There are a variety of contested models of practice research (practice-as-research, practice-based and practice through research), for example, screen media practice research.\n\nUniversities are often culturally distinct from the towns or cities where they reside. In some cases this leads to discomfort or outright conflict between local residents and members of the university over political, economic, or other issues. Some localities in the Northeastern United States, for instance, have tried to block students from registering to vote as local residents—instead encouraging them to vote by absentee ballot at their primary residence—in order to retain control of local politics. Other issues can include deep cultural and class divisions between local residents and university students. The film \"Breaking Away\" dramatizes such a conflict.\n\nThe goals of research for profit and for the sake of knowledge often conflict to some degree.\n\nAmong the earliest research journals were the Proceedings of Meetings of the Royal Society in the 17th century. At that time, the act of publishing academic inquiry was controversial, and widely ridiculed. It was not at all unusual for a new discovery to be announced as an anagram, reserving priority for the discoverer, but indecipherable for anyone not in on the secret: both Isaac Newton and Leibniz used this approach. However, this method did not work well. Robert K. Merton, a sociologist, found that 92 percent of cases of simultaneous discovery in the 17th century ended in dispute. The number of disputes dropped to 72 percent in the 18th century, 59 percent by the latter half of the 19th century, and 33 percent by the first half of the 20th century. The decline in contested claims for priority in research discoveries can be credited to the increasing acceptance of the publication of papers in modern academic journals.\n\nThe Royal Society was steadfast in its unpopular belief that science could only move forward through a transparent and open exchange of ideas backed by experimental evidence. Many of the experiments were ones that we would not recognize as scientific today—nor were the questions they answered. For example, when the Duke of Buckingham was admitted as a Fellow of the Royal Society on June 5, 1661, he presented the Society with a vial of powdered \"unicorn horn\". It was a well-accepted 'fact' that a circle of unicorn's horn would act as an invisible cage for any spider. Robert Hooke, the chief experimenter of the Royal Society, emptied the Duke's vial into a circle on a table and dropped a spider in the centre of the circle. The spider promptly walked out of the circle and off the table. In its day, this was cutting-edge research.\n\nResearch journals have been so successful that the number of journals and of papers has proliferated over the past few decades, and the credo of the modern academic has become \"publish or perish\". Except for generalist journals such as \"Science\" or \"Nature\", the topics covered in any single journal have tended to be narrow, and readership and citation have declined. A variety of methods for reviewing submissions exist. The most common involves initial approval by the journal, peer review by two or three researchers working in similar or closely related subjects who recommend approval or rejection as well as request error correction, clarification or additions before publishing. Controversial topics may receive additional levels of review. Journals have developed a hierarchy, partly based on reputation but also on the strictness of the review policy. More prestigious journals are more likely to receive and publish more important work. Submitters try to submit their work to the most prestigious journal likely to publish it to bolster their reputation and curriculum vitae.\n\nAndrew Odlyzko, an academician with a large number of published research papers, has argued that research journals will evolve into something akin to Internet forums over the coming decade, by extending the interactivity of current Internet preprints. This change may open them up to a wider range of ideas, some more developed than others. Whether this will be a positive evolution remains to be seen. Some claim that forums, like markets, tend to thrive or fail based on their ability to attract talent. Some believe that highly restrictive and tightly monitored forums may be the least likely to thrive.\n\nGowns have been associated with academia since the birth of the university in the 14th and 15th centuries, perhaps because most early scholars were priests or church officials. Over time, the gowns worn by degree-holders have become standardized to some extent, although traditions in individual countries and even institutions have established a diverse range of gown styles, and some have ended the custom entirely, even for graduation ceremonies.\n\nAt some universities, such as the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, undergraduates may be required to wear gowns on formal occasions and on graduation. Undergraduate gowns are usually a shortened version of a bachelor's gown. At other universities, for example, outside the UK or U.S., the custom is entirely absent. Students at the University of Trinity College at the University of Toronto wear gowns to formal dinner, debates, to student government, and to many other places.\n\nIn general, in the U.S. and UK recipients of a bachelor's degree are entitled to wear a simple full-length robe without adornment and a mortarboard cap with a tassel. In addition, holders of a bachelor's degree may be entitled to wear a ceremonial hood at some schools. In the U.S., bachelor's hoods are rarely seen. Bachelor's hoods are generally smaller versions of those worn by recipients of master's and doctoral degrees.\n\nRecipients of a master's degree in the U.S. or UK wear a similar cap and gown but closed sleeves with slits, and usually receive a ceremonial hood that hangs down the back of the gown. In the U.S. the hood is traditionally edged with a silk or velvet strip displaying the disciplinary color, and is lined with the university's colors.\n\nAccording to The American Council on Education “six-year specialist degrees (Ed.S., etc.) and other degrees that are intermediate between the master's and the doctor's degree may have hoods specially designed (1) intermediate in length between the master's and doctor's hood, (2) with a four-inch velvet border (also intermediate between the widths of the borders of master's and doctor's hoods), and (3) with color distributed in the usual fashion and according to the usual rules. Cap tassels should be uniformly black.”\n\nRecipients of a doctoral degree tend to have the most elaborate academic dress, and hence there is the greatest diversity at this level. In the U.S., doctoral gowns are similar to the gowns worn by master's graduates, with the addition of velvet stripes across the sleeves and running down the front of the gown which may be tinted with the disciplinary color for the degree received. Holders of a doctoral degree may be entitled or obliged to wear \"scarlet\" (a special gown in scarlet) on high days and special occasions. While some doctoral graduates wear the mortarboard cap traditional to the lower degree levels, most wear a cap or \"Tudor bonnet\" that resembles a tam o'shanter, from which a colored tassel is suspended.\n\nIn modern times in the U.S. and UK, gowns are normally only worn at graduation ceremonies, although some colleges still demand the wearing of academic dress on formal occasions (official banquets and other similar affairs). In the 19th and early 20th centuries, it was more common to see the dress worn in the classroom, a practice which has now all but disappeared. Two notable exceptions are Oxford and a society at Sewanee, where students are required to wear formal academic dress in the examination room.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59920", "title": "Alfred Tarski", "text": "Alfred Tarski\n\nAlfred Tarski (; January 14, 1901 – October 26, 1983), born Alfred Teitelbaum, was a Polish-American logician and mathematician of Polish-Jewish descent. Educated in Poland at the University of Warsaw, and a member of the Lwów–Warsaw school of logic and the Warsaw school of mathematics, he immigrated to the United States in 1939 where he became a naturalized citizen in 1945. Tarski taught and carried out research in mathematics at the University of California, Berkeley, from 1942 until his death in 1983.\n\nA prolific author best known for his work on model theory, metamathematics, and algebraic logic, he also contributed to abstract algebra, topology, geometry, measure theory, mathematical logic, set theory, and analytic philosophy.\n\nHis biographers Anita and Solomon Feferman state that, \"Along with his contemporary, Kurt Gödel, he changed the face of logic in the twentieth century, especially through his work on the concept of truth and the theory of models.\"\n\nAlfred Tarski was born Alfred Teitelbaum (Polish spelling: \"Tajtelbaum\"), to parents who were Polish Jews in comfortable circumstances relative to other Jews in the overall region. He first manifested his mathematical abilities while in secondary school, at Warsaw's \"Szkoła Mazowiecka\". Nevertheless, he entered the University of Warsaw in 1918 intending to study biology.\n\nAfter Poland regained independence in 1918, Warsaw University came under the leadership of Jan Łukasiewicz, Stanisław Leśniewski and Wacław Sierpiński and quickly became a world-leading research institution in logic, foundational mathematics, and the philosophy of mathematics. Leśniewski recognized Tarski's potential as a mathematician and encouraged him to abandon biology. Henceforth Tarski attended courses taught by Łukasiewicz, Sierpiński, Stefan Mazurkiewicz and Tadeusz Kotarbiński, and became the only person ever to complete a doctorate under Leśniewski's supervision. Tarski and Leśniewski soon grew cool to each other. However, in later life, Tarski reserved his warmest praise for Kotarbiński, which was reciprocated.\n\nIn 1923, Alfred Teitelbaum and his brother Wacław changed their surname to \"Tarski\". The Tarski brothers also converted to Roman Catholicism, Poland's dominant religion. Alfred did so even though he was an avowed atheist.\n\nAfter becoming the youngest person ever to complete a doctorate at Warsaw University, Tarski taught logic at the Polish Pedagogical Institute, mathematics and logic at the University, and served as Łukasiewicz's assistant. Because these positions were poorly paid, Tarski also taught mathematics at a Warsaw secondary school; before World War II, it was not uncommon for European intellectuals of research caliber to teach high school. Hence between 1923 and his departure for the United States in 1939, Tarski not only wrote several textbooks and many papers, a number of them ground-breaking, but also did so while supporting himself primarily by teaching high-school mathematics. In 1929 Tarski married fellow teacher Maria Witkowska, a Pole of Catholic background. She had worked as a courier for the army in the Polish–Soviet War. They had two children; a son Jan who became a physicist, and a daughter Ina who married the mathematician Andrzej Ehrenfeucht.\n\nTarski applied for a chair of philosophy at Lwów University, but on Bertrand Russell's recommendation it was awarded to Leon Chwistek. In 1930, Tarski visited the University of Vienna, lectured to Karl Menger's colloquium, and met Kurt Gödel. Thanks to a fellowship, he was able to return to Vienna during the first half of 1935 to work with Menger's research group. From Vienna he traveled to Paris to present his ideas on truth at the first meeting of the Unity of Science movement, an outgrowth of the Vienna Circle. In 1937, Tarski applied for a chair at Poznań University but the chair was abolished. Tarski's ties to the Unity of Science movement likely saved his life, because they resulted in his being invited to address the Unity of Science Congress held in September 1939 at Harvard University. Thus he left Poland in August 1939, on the last ship to sail from Poland for the United States before the German and Soviet invasion of Poland and the outbreak of World War II. Tarski left reluctantly, because Leśniewski had died a few months before, creating a vacancy which Tarski hoped to fill. Oblivious to the Nazi threat, he left his wife and children in Warsaw. He did not see them again until 1946. During the war, nearly all his Jewish extended family were murdered at the hands of the German occupying authorities.\n\nOnce in the United States, Tarski held a number of temporary teaching and research positions: Harvard University (1939), City College of New York (1940), and thanks to a Guggenheim Fellowship, the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton (1942), where he again met Gödel. In 1942, Tarski joined the Mathematics Department at the University of California, Berkeley, where he spent the rest of his career. Tarski became an American citizen in 1945. Although emeritus from 1968, he taught until 1973 and supervised Ph.D. candidates until his death. At Berkeley, Tarski acquired a reputation as an awesome and demanding teacher, a fact noted by many observers:\n\nHis seminars at Berkeley quickly became famous in the world of mathematical logic. His students, many of whom became distinguished mathematicians, noted the awesome energy with which he would coax and cajole their best work out of them, always demanding the highest standards of clarity and precision.\n\nTarski was extroverted, quick-witted, strong-willed, energetic, and sharp-tongued. He preferred his research to be collaborative — sometimes working all night with a colleague — and was very fastidious about priority.\n\nA charismatic leader and teacher, known for his brilliantly precise yet suspenseful expository style, Tarski had intimidatingly high standards for students, but at the same time he could be very encouraging, and particularly so to women — in contrast to the general trend. Some students were frightened away, but a circle of disciples remained, many of whom became world-renowned leaders in the field.\n\nTarski supervised twenty-four Ph.D. dissertations including (in chronological order) those of Andrzej Mostowski, Bjarni Jónsson, Julia Robinson, Robert Vaught, Solomon Feferman, Richard Montague, James Donald Monk, Haim Gaifman, Donald Pigozzi and Roger Maddux, as well as Chen Chung Chang and Jerome Keisler, authors of \"Model Theory\" (1973), a classic text in the field. He also strongly influenced the dissertations of Alfred Lindenbaum, Dana Scott, and Steven Givant. Five of Tarski's students were women, a remarkable fact given that men represented an overwhelming majority of graduate students at the time.\n\nTarski lectured at University College, London (1950, 1966), the Institut Henri Poincaré in Paris (1955), the Miller Institute for Basic Research in Science in Berkeley (1958–60), the University of California at Los Angeles (1967), and the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile (1974–75). Among many distinctions garnered over the course of his career, Tarski was elected to the United States National Academy of Sciences, the British Academy and the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1958, received honorary degrees from the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile in 1975, from Marseilles' Paul Cézanne University in 1977 and from the University of Calgary, as well as the Berkeley Citation in 1981. Tarski presided over the Association for Symbolic Logic, 1944–46, and the International Union for the History and Philosophy of Science, 1956–57. He was also an honorary editor of \"Algebra Universalis\".\n\nTarski's mathematical interests were exceptionally broad. His collected papers run to about 2,500 pages, most of them on mathematics, not logic. For a concise survey of Tarski's mathematical and logical accomplishments by his former student Solomon Feferman, see \"Interludes I–VI\" in Feferman and Feferman.\n\nTarski's first paper, published when he was 19 years old, was on set theory, a subject to which he returned throughout his life. In 1924, he and Stefan Banach proved that, if one accepts the Axiom of Choice, a ball can be cut into a finite number of pieces, and then reassembled into a ball of larger size, or alternatively it can be reassembled into two balls whose sizes each equal that of the original one. This result is now called the Banach–Tarski paradox.\n\nIn \"A decision method for elementary algebra and geometry\", Tarski showed, by the method of quantifier elimination, that the first-order theory of the real numbers under addition and multiplication is decidable. (While this result appeared only in 1948, it dates back to 1930 and was mentioned in Tarski (1931).) This is a very curious result, because Alonzo Church proved in 1936 that Peano arithmetic (the theory of natural numbers) is \"not\" decidable. Peano arithmetic is also incomplete by Gödel's incompleteness theorem. In his 1953 \"Undecidable theories\", Tarski et al. showed that many mathematical systems, including lattice theory, abstract projective geometry, and closure algebras, are all undecidable. The theory of Abelian groups is decidable, but that of non-Abelian groups is not.\n\nIn the 1920s and 30s, Tarski often taught high school geometry. Using some ideas of Mario Pieri, in 1926 Tarski devised an original axiomatization for plane Euclidean geometry, one considerably more concise than Hilbert's. Tarski's axioms form a first-order theory devoid of set theory, whose individuals are points, and having only two primitive relations. In 1930, he proved this theory decidable because it can be mapped into another theory he had already proved decidable, namely his first-order theory of the real numbers.\n\nIn 1929 he showed that much of Euclidean solid geometry could be recast as a first-order theory whose individuals are \"spheres\" (a primitive notion), a single primitive binary relation \"is contained in\", and two axioms that, among other things, imply that containment partially orders the spheres. Relaxing the requirement that all individuals be spheres yields a formalization of mereology far easier to exposit than Lesniewski's variant. Near the end of his life, Tarski wrote a very long letter, published as Tarski and Givant (1999), summarizing his work on geometry.\n\n\"Cardinal Algebras\" studied algebras whose models include the arithmetic of cardinal numbers. \"Ordinal Algebras\" sets out an algebra for the additive theory of order types. Cardinal, but not ordinal, addition commutes.\n\nIn 1941, Tarski published an important paper on binary relations, which began the work on relation algebra and its metamathematics that occupied Tarski and his students for much of the balance of his life. While that exploration (and the closely related work of Roger Lyndon) uncovered some important limitations of relation algebra, Tarski also showed (Tarski and Givant 1987) that relation algebra can express most axiomatic set theory and Peano arithmetic. For an introduction to relation algebra, see Maddux (2006). In the late 1940s, Tarski and his students devised cylindric algebras, which are to first-order logic what the two-element Boolean algebra is to classical sentential logic. This work culminated in the two monographs by Tarski, Henkin, and Monk (1971, 1985).\n\nTarski's student, Vaught, has ranked Tarski as one of the four greatest logicians of all time — along with Aristotle, Gottlob Frege, and Kurt Gödel. However, Tarski often expressed great admiration for Charles Sanders Peirce, particularly for his pioneering work in the logic of relations.\n\nTarski produced axioms for \"logical consequence\", and worked on deductive systems, the algebra of logic, and the theory of definability. His semantic methods, which culminated in the model theory he and a number of his Berkeley students developed in the 1950s and 60s, radically transformed Hilbert's proof-theoretic metamathematics.\n\nIn [Tarski's] view, metamathematics became similar to any mathematical discipline. Not only can its concepts and results be mathematized, but they actually can be integrated into mathematics. ... Tarski destroyed the borderline between metamathematics and mathematics. He objected to restricting the role of metamathematics to the foundations of mathematics.\n\nTarski's 1936 article \"On the concept of logical consequence\" argued that the conclusion of an argument will follow logically from its premises if and only if every model of the premises is a model of the conclusion. In 1937, he published a paper presenting clearly his views on the nature and purpose of the deductive method, and the role of logic in scientific studies. His high school and undergraduate teaching on logic and axiomatics culminated in a classic short text, published first in Polish, then in German translation, and finally in a 1941 English translation as \"Introduction to Logic and to the Methodology of Deductive Sciences\".\n\nTarski's 1969 \"Truth and proof\" considered both Gödel's incompleteness theorems and Tarski's undefinability theorem, and mulled over their consequences for the axiomatic method in mathematics.\n\nIn 1933, Tarski published a very long paper in Polish, titled \"Pojęcie prawdy w językach nauk dedukcyjnych\", setting out a mathematical definition of truth for formal languages. The 1935 German translation was titled \"Der Wahrheitsbegriff in den formalisierten Sprachen\", \"The concept of truth in formalized languages\", sometimes shortened to \"Wahrheitsbegriff\". An English translation appeared in the 1956 first edition of the volume \"Logic, Semantics, Metamathematics\". This collection of papers from 1923 to 1938 is an event in 20th-century analytic philosophy, a contribution to symbolic logic, semantics, and the philosophy of language. For a brief discussion of its content, see Convention T (and also T-schema).\n\nSome recent philosophical debate examines the extent to which Tarski's theory of truth for formalized languages can be seen as a correspondence theory of truth. The debate centers on how to read Tarski's condition of material adequacy for a truth definition. That condition requires that the truth theory have the following as theorems for all sentences p of the language for which truth is being defined:\n\nThe debate amounts to whether to read sentences of this form, such as\n\n\"Snow is white\" is true if and only if snow is white\n\nas expressing merely a deflationary theory of truth or as embodying truth as a more substantial property (see Kirkham 1992). It is important to realize that Tarski's theory of truth is for formalized languages, so examples in natural language are not illustrations of the use of Tarski's theory of truth.\n\nIn 1936, Tarski published Polish and German versions of a lecture he had given the preceding year at the International Congress of Scientific Philosophy in Paris. A new English translation of this paper, Tarski (2002), highlights the many differences between the German and Polish versions of the paper, and corrects a number of mistranslations in Tarski (1983).\n\nThis publication set out the modern model-theoretic definition of (semantic) logical consequence, or at least the basis for it. Whether Tarski's notion was entirely the modern one turns on whether he intended to admit models with varying domains (and in particular, models with domains of different cardinalities). This question is a matter of some debate in the current philosophical literature. John Etchemendy stimulated much of the recent discussion about Tarski's treatment of varying domains.\n\nTarski ends by pointing out that his definition of logical consequence depends upon a division of terms into the logical and the extra-logical and he expresses some skepticism that any such objective division will be forthcoming. \"What are Logical Notions?\" can thus be viewed as continuing \"On the Concept of Logical Consequence\".\n\nAnother theory of Tarski's attracting attention in the recent philosophical literature is that outlined in his \"What are Logical Notions?\" (Tarski 1986). This is the published version of a talk that he gave originally in 1966 in London and later in 1973 in Buffalo; it was edited without his direct involvement by John Corcoran. It became the most cited paper in the journal \"History and Philosophy of Logic\".\n\nIn the talk, Tarski proposed a demarcation of the logical operations (which he calls \"notions\") from the non-logical. The suggested criteria were derived from the Erlangen programme of the German 19th century Mathematician, Felix Klein. Mautner, in 1946, and possibly an article by the Portuguese mathematician Sebastiao e Silva, anticipated Tarski in applying the Erlangen Program to logic.\n\nThat program classified the various types of geometry (Euclidean geometry, affine geometry, topology, etc.) by the type of one-one transformation of space onto itself that left the objects of that geometrical theory invariant. (A one-to-one transformation is a functional map of the space onto itself so that every point of the space is associated with or mapped to one other point of the space. So, \"rotate 30 degrees\" and \"magnify by a factor of 2\" are intuitive descriptions of simple uniform one-one transformations.) Continuous transformations give rise to the objects of topology, similarity transformations to those of Euclidean geometry, and so on.\n\nAs the range of permissible transformations becomes broader, the range of objects one is able to distinguish as preserved by the application of the transformations becomes narrower. Similarity transformations are fairly narrow (they preserve the relative distance between points) and thus allow us to distinguish relatively many things (e.g., equilateral triangles from non-equilateral triangles). Continuous transformations (which can intuitively be thought of as transformations which allow non-uniform stretching, compression, bending, and twisting, but no ripping or glueing) allow us to distinguish a polygon from an annulus (ring with a hole in the centre), but do not allow us to distinguish two polygons from each other.\n\nTarski's proposal was to demarcate the logical notions by considering all possible one-to-one transformations (automorphisms) of a domain onto itself. By domain is meant the universe of discourse of a model for the semantic theory of a logic. If one identifies the truth value True with the domain set and the truth-value False with the empty set, then the following operations are counted as logical under the proposal:\n\n\nIn some ways the present proposal is the obverse of that of Lindenbaum and Tarski (1936), who proved that all the logical operations of Russell and Whitehead's \"Principia Mathematica\" are invariant under one-to-one transformations of the domain onto itself. The present proposal is also employed in Tarski and Givant (1987).\n\nSolomon Feferman and Vann McGee further discussed Tarski's proposal in work published after his death. Feferman (1999) raises problems for the proposal and suggests a cure: replacing Tarski's preservation by automorphisms with preservation by arbitrary homomorphisms. In essence, this suggestion circumvents the difficulty Tarski's proposal has in dealing with sameness of logical operation across distinct domains of a given cardinality and across domains of distinct cardinalities. Feferman's proposal results in a radical restriction of logical terms as compared to Tarski's original proposal. In particular, it ends up counting as logical only those operators of standard first-order logic without identity.\n\nMcGee (1996) provides a precise account of what operations are logical in the sense of Tarski's proposal in terms of expressibility in a language that extends first-order logic by allowing arbitrarily long conjunctions and disjunctions, and quantification over arbitrarily many variables. \"Arbitrarily\" includes a countable infinity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20987851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20987851", "title": "Artificial skin", "text": "Artificial skin\n\nArtificial skin is a collagen scaffold that induces regeneration of skin in mammals such as humans. The term was used in the late 1970s and early 1980s to describe a new treatment for massive burns. It was later discovered that treatment of deep skin wounds in adult animals and humans with this scaffold induces regeneration of the dermis. It has been developed commercially under the name IntegraTM and is used in massively burned patients, during plastic surgery of the skin, and in treatment of chronic skin wounds.\n\nAlternatively, the term “artificial skin” sometimes is used to refer to skin-like tissue grown in a laboratory, although this technology is still quite a way away from being viable for use in the medical field. 'Artificial skin' can also refer to flexible semiconductor materials that can sense touch for those with prosthetic limbs, (also experimental).\n\nThe skin is the largest organ in the human body. Skin is made up of three layers, the epidermis, dermis and the fat layer, also called the hypodermis. The epidermis is the outer layer of skin that keeps vital fluids in and harmful bacteria out of the body. The dermis is the inner layer of skin that contains blood vessels, nerves, hair follicles, oil, and sweat glands. Severe damage to large areas of skin exposes the human organism to dehydration and infections that can result in death.\n\nTraditional ways of dealing with large losses of skin have been to use skin grafts from the patient (autografts) or from an unrelated donor or a cadaver. The former approach has the disadvantage that there may not be enough skin available, while the latter suffers from the possibility of rejection or infection.\nUntil the late twentieth century, skin grafts were constructed from the patient's own skin. This became a problem when skin had been damaged extensively, making it impossible to treat severely injured patients entirely with autografts.\n\nA process for inducing regeneration in skin was invented by Dr. Ioannis V. Yannas (then an assistant professor in the Fibers and Polymers Division, Department of Mechanical Engineering, at Massachusetts Institute of Technology) and Dr. John F. Burke (then chief of staff at Shriners Burns Institute in Boston, Massachusetts). Their initial objective was to discover a wound cover that would protect severe skin wounds from infection by accelerating wound closure. Several kinds of grafts made of synthetic and natural polymers were prepared and tested in a guinea pig animal model. By the late 1970s it was evident that the original objective was not reached. Instead, these experimental grafts typically did not affect the speed of wound closure. In one case, however, a particular type of collagen graft led to significant delay of wound closure. Careful study of histology samples revealed that grafts that delayed wound closure induced the synthesis of new dermis de novo at the injury site, instead of forming scar, which is the normal outcome of the spontaneous wound healing response. This was the first demonstration of regeneration of a tissue (dermis) that does not regenerate by itself in the adult mammal. After the initial discovery, further research led to the composition and fabrication of grafts that were evaluated in clinical trials. These grafts were synthesized as a graft copolymer of microfibrillar type I collagen and a glycosaminoglycan, chondroitin-6-sulfate, fabricated into porous sheets by freeze-drying, and then cross-linked by dehydrothermal treatment. Control of the structural features of the collagen scaffold (average pore size, degradation rate and surface chemistry) was eventually found to be a critical prerequisite for its unusual biological activity. In 1981 Burke and Yannas proved that their artificial skin worked on patients with 50 to 90 percent burns, vastly improving the chances of recovery and improvised quality of life. John F. Burke also claimed, in 1981, \"[The Artificial skin] is soft and pliable, not stiff and hard, unlike other substances used to cover burned-off skin.\"\n\nSeveral patents were granted to MIT for the creation of collagen-based grafts that can induce dermis regeneration. U.S. Pat. 4,418,691 (December 6, 1983) was cited by the National Inventors Hall of Fame as the key patent describing the invention of a process for regenerated skin (Inductees Natl Inventors Hall of Fame, 2015). These patents were translated later into a commercial product (IntegraTM) by Integra LifeSciences Corp., a company founded in 1993. IntegraTM grafts received FDA approval in 1996 and since then are being applied worldwide to treat patients who are in need of new skin to treat massive burns, those undergoing plastic surgery of the skin, and patients with chronic skin wounds as well as others who suffer from certain forms of skin cancer. \nIn clinical practice, a thin graft sheet manufactured from the active collagen scaffold is placed on the injury site, which is then covered with a thin sheet of silicone elastomer that protects the wound site from bacterial infection and dehydration. The graft can be seeded with autologous cells (keratinocytes) in order to accelerate wound closure, however the presence of these cells is not required for regenerating the dermis. Grafting skin wounds with IntegraTM leads to the synthesis of normal vascularized and innervated dermis de novo, followed by re-epithelization and formation of epidermis. Although early versions of the scaffold were not capable of regenerating hair follicles and sweat glands, later developments by S.T Boyce and coworkers led to solution of this problem.\n\nThe mechanism of regeneration using an active collagen scaffold has been largely clarified. The scaffold retains regenerative activity provided that it has been prepared with appropriate levels of the specific surface (pore size in range 20-125 µm), degradation rate (degradation half-life 14 ± 7 days) and surface chemical features (ligand densities for integrins α1β1 and α2β1 must exceed approximately 200 μΜ α1β1 and α2β1 ligands). It has been hypothesized that specific binding of a sufficient number of contractile cells (myofibroblasts) on the scaffold surface, occurring within a narrow time window, is required for induction of skin regeneration in the presence of this scaffold. Studies with skin wounds have been extended to transected peripheral nerves, and the combined evidence supports a common regeneration mechanism for skin and peripheral nerves using this scaffold.\n\nResearch is continually being done on artificial skin. Newer technologies, such as an autologous spray-on skin produced by Avita Medical, are being tested in efforts to accelerate healing and minimize scarring.\n\nThe Fraunhofer Institute for Interfacial Engineering and Biotechnology is working towards a fully automated process for producing artificial skin. Their goal is a simple two-layer skin without blood vessels that can be used to study how skin interacts with consumer products, such as creams and medicines. They hope to eventually produce more complex skin that can be used in transplants.\n\nHanna Wendt, and a team of her colleagues in the Department of Plastic, Hand and Reconstructive Surgery at Medical School Hannover Germany, have found a method for creating artificial skin using spider silk. Before this, however, artificial skin was grown using materials like collagen. These materials did not seem strong enough. Instead, Wendt and her team turned to spider silk, which is known to be 5 times stronger than Kevlar. The silk is harvested by “milking” the silk glands of golden orb web spiders. The silk was spooled as it was harvested, and then it was woven into a rectangular steel frame. The steel frame was 0.7 mm thick, and the resulting weave was easy to handle or sterilize. Human skin cells were added to the meshwork silk and were found to flourish under an environment providing nutrients, warmth and air. However at this time, using spider silk to grow artificial skin in mass quantities is not practical because of the tedious process of harvesting spider silk.\n\nAustralian researchers are currently searching for a new, innovative way to produce artificial skin. This would produce artificial skin quicker, and in a more efficient way. The skin produced would only be 1 millimeter thick and would only be used to rebuild the epidermis. They can also make the skin 1.5 millimeters thick, which would allow the dermis to repair itself if needed. This would require bone marrow from a donation or from the patient's body. The bone marrow would be used as a “seed,\" and would be placed in the grafts to mimic the dermis. This has been tested on animals and has been proven to work with animal skin.\nProfessor Maitz said, “In Australia, someone with a full-thickness burn to up to 80 per cent of their body surface area has every prospect of surviving the injury... However their quality of life remains questionable as we're unable, at present, to replace the burned skin with normal skin…We're committed to ensuring the pain of survival is worth it, by developing a living skin equivalent.”\n\nAnother form of “artificial skin” has been created out of flexible semiconductor materials that can sense touch for those with prosthetic limbs. The artificial skin is anticipated to augment robotics in conducting rudimentary jobs that would be considered delicate and require sensitive “touch”. Scientists found that by applying a layer of rubber with two parallel electrodes that stored electrical charges inside of the artificial skin, tiny amounts of pressure could be detected. When pressure is exerted, the electrical charge in the rubber is changed and the change is detected by the electrodes. \nHowever, the film is so small that when pressure is applied to the skin, the molecules have nowhere to move and become entangled. The molecules also fail to return to their original shape when the pressure is removed. A recent development in the synthetic skin technique has been made by imparting the color changing properties to the thin layer of silicon with the help of artificial ridges which reflect a very specific wavelength of light. By tuning the spaces between these ridges, color to be reflected by the skin can be controlled. This technology can be used in color-shifting camouflages and sensors that can detect otherwise imperceptible defects in buildings, bridges, and aircraft.\n"}
{"id": "49189452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49189452", "title": "Barbara Vanderlinden", "text": "Barbara Vanderlinden\n\nBarbara Vanderlinden is an art critic, editor and curator.\n\nMore recently, she has served as Professor of Exhibition Studies and Director of the Exhibition Laboratory at the University of the Arts Helsinki (Taideyliopisto) in Finland where she organized \"Laboratory of Hearing\". Previously, she was Visiting Professor and initiator of the International Curatorial Programme (2001) at the Gwangju Biennale Foundation, Gwangju, South Korea, and Associate Professor of curatorial studies for the CCS Bard Master of Arts Program in Curatorial Studies in Annandale-on-Hudson, New York, Professor of Exhibition and Museum Studies (2005-2007) at the San Francisco Art Institute. \n\nIn 1999, she co-curated the Laboratorium exhibition (with Hans Ulrich Obrist). She served as director of the 2008 Brussels Biennial and organised multiple exhibitions as well as various international biennales including the \"Taipei Biennial: Do You Believe in Reality?\" in 2004 at the Taipei Fine Arts Museum, \"Manifesta 2,\" European biennial of contemporary art (1997), \"Generation Z\" at MoMA PS1 in New York, and \"Two Hours Wide, Two Hours Long 58/98\" at Cultural Centre of Belém in Lisbon. In 2002 she co-curated with Boris Groys \"The Art Judgement Show\" and in 2000 she was co-curating with Adriano Pedrosa, Ivo Mesquita, Cuauhtemoc Medina, Louise Neri and Lilian Tone the defunct 25th São Paulo Art Biennial.\n\nVanderlinden is the author of a reference book in the field of exhibitions and biennials stories in Europe called \"The Manifesta Decade: Debates on Contemporary Art Exhibitions and Biennials in Post-Wall Europe\" (MIT Press, 2005) and co-author (with Francesco Bonami and Nancy Spector) of \"Maurizio Cattelan\" (Phaidon Press, 2003).\n"}
{"id": "11041200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11041200", "title": "Bell-boy jacket", "text": "Bell-boy jacket\n\nThe Bell-boy Jacket is modeled on uniforms traditionally worn by hotel bell-boys and messengers, consisting of a very fitted waist-length jacket and a band collar, often double-breasted and trimmed with fancy braid or piping, and rows of close-set brass buttons. The cuffs of the jacket often have similar decoration. The style is based on 19th-century military dress uniforms and drummer boys.\n"}
{"id": "46093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46093", "title": "Bill Hicks", "text": "Bill Hicks\n\nWilliam Melvin Hicks (December 16, 1961 – February 26, 1994) was an American stand-up comedian, social critic, satirist and musician. His material, encompassing a wide range of social issues including religion, politics, and philosophy, was controversial, and often steeped in dark comedy.\n\nAt the age of 16, while still in high school, he began performing at the Comedy Workshop in Houston, Texas. During the 1980s, he toured the United States extensively and made a number of high-profile television appearances; but it was in the UK that he amassed a significant fan base, filling large venues during his 1991 tour. He also achieved a modicum of recognition as a guitarist and songwriter.\n\nHicks died of pancreatic cancer on February 26, 1994, in Little Rock, Arkansas, at the age of 32. In subsequent years his work gained a significant measure of acclaim in creative circles—particularly after a series of posthumous album releases—and he developed a substantial cult following. In 2007 he was voted sixth on Channel 4's list of the 100 Greatest Stand-Up Comics, and rose to number four on the 2010 list. In 2017, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine ranked him thirteenth on its list of the 50 best stand-up comics of all time.\n\nHicks was born in Valdosta, Georgia, the son of James Melvin \"Jim\" Hicks (1923–2006) and Mary Reese Hicks, the younger sibling of Lynn and Steve. The family lived in Florida, Alabama, and New Jersey before settling in Houston, Texas, when Bill was seven. He was drawn to comedy at an early age, emulating Woody Allen and Richard Pryor, and writing routines with his friend Dwight Slade. At school he began performing comedy, mostly derivations of Woody Allen material, for his classmates. At home, he would write his own one-liners and slide them under the bedroom door of his brother Steve, the only family member Bill respected, for his critical analysis. \"Keep it up\", Steve told him. \"You're really good at this.\"\n\nEarly on, Hicks began to mock his family's Southern Baptist religious beliefs. \"We were Yuppie Baptists,\" he joked to the \"Houston Post\" in 1987. \"We worried about things like, 'If you scratch your neighbor's Subaru, should you leave a note?'\" Biographer Cynthia True described a typical argument with his father: Hicks did not, however, reject spiritual ideology itself, and throughout his life he sought various alternative methods of experiencing it. Kevin Slade, elder brother of Dwight, introduced him to Transcendental Meditation and other forms of spirituality. Over one Thanksgiving weekend he took Hicks and Dwight to a TM residence course in Galveston. Worried about his rebellious behavior, his parents took him to a psychoanalyst at age 17. According to Hicks, after the first group session the analyst took him aside and told him, \"You can continue coming if you want to, but it's them, not you.\"\n\nHicks was associated with the Texas Outlaw Comics group developed at the Comedy Workshop in Houston in the 1980s.\n\nBy January 1986, Hicks was using recreational drugs and his financial resources had dwindled. However his career received another upturn in 1987, when he appeared on Rodney Dangerfield's \"Young Comedians Special\". The same year, he moved to New York City, and for the next five years performed about 300 times a year. On the album \"Relentless\", he jokes that he quit using drugs because \"once you've been taken aboard a UFO, it's kind of hard to top that\", although in his performances, he continued to extol the virtues of LSD, marijuana, and psychedelic mushrooms.\n\nHe eventually fell back to chain smoking, a theme that would figure heavily in his performances from then on. His nicotine addiction, love of smoking, and occasional attempts to quit became a recurring theme in his act throughout his later years.\n\nIn 1988, Hicks signed on with his first professional business manager, Jack Mondrus.\n\nOn the track \"Modern Bummer\" of his 1990 album \"Dangerous\", Hicks says he quit drinking alcohol in 1988.\n\nIn 1989, he released his first video, \"Sane Man\"; a remastered version with 30 minutes of extra footage was released in 1999.\n\nIn 1990, Hicks released his first album, \"Dangerous\", performed on the HBO special \"One Night Stand,\" and performed at Montreal's \"Just for Laughs\" festival. He was also part of a group of American stand-up comedians performing in London's West End in November. Hicks was a huge hit in the UK and Ireland and continued touring there throughout 1991. That year, he returned to \"Just for Laughs\" and filmed his second video, \"Relentless.\"\n\nHicks made a brief detour into musical recording with the \"Marble Head Johnson\" album in 1992 collaborating with Houston high school friend Kevin Booth and Austin Texas drummer Pat Brown. During the same year he toured the UK, where he recorded the \"Revelations\" video for Channel 4. He closed the show with his soon-to become-famous philosophy regarding life, \"It's Just a Ride.\" Also in that tour he recorded the stand-up performance released in its entirety on a double CD entitled, \"Salvation.\" Hicks was voted \"Hot Standup Comic\" by \"Rolling Stone magazine\" in 1993. He moved to Los Angeles in 1992.\n\nProgressive metal band Tool invited Hicks to open a number of concerts in its 1993 Lollapalooza appearances, where Hicks once asked the audience to look for a contact lens he had lost. Thousands of people complied.\n\nMembers of Tool felt that they and Hicks \"were resonating similar concepts\". Intending to raise awareness about Hicks's material and ideas, Tool dedicated their triple-platinum album \"Ænima\" (1996) to Hicks. Both the lenticular casing of the \"Ænima\" album packaging as well as the chorus of the title track \"Ænema\" make reference to a sketch from Hicks's \"Arizona Bay\" album, in which he contemplates the idea of Los Angeles falling into the Pacific Ocean. \"Ænima\"s final track, \"Third Eye\" contains samples from Hicks's \"Dangerous\" and \"Relentless\" albums.\n\nAn alternate version of the \"Ænima\" artwork shows a painting of Bill Hicks, calling him \"Another Dead Hero,\" and mentions of Hicks are found both in the liner notes and on the record.\n\nIn 1984, Hicks was invited to appear on \"Late Night with David Letterman\" for the first time. He had a joke that he used frequently in comedy clubs about how he caused a serious accident that left a classmate using a wheelchair. NBC had a policy that no handicapped jokes could be aired on the show, making his stand-up routine difficult to perform without mentioning words such as \"wheelchair.\"\n\nOn October 1, 1993, Hicks was scheduled to appear on \"Late Show with David Letterman\" on CBS, where Letterman had recently moved. It was his 12th appearance on a Letterman late-night show, but his entire performance was removed from the broadcast: until that point the only occasion where a comedian's entire routine was cut after taping. Hicks' stand-up routine was removed from the show, Hicks said, because Letterman's producers believed the material, which included jokes involving religion and the anti-abortion movement, was unsuitable for broadcast. Producer Robert Morton initially blamed CBS, which denied responsibility; Morton later conceded it was his decision. Although Letterman later expressed regret at the way Hicks had been handled, Hicks did not appear on the show again. Hicks was actively undergoing chemotherapy at the time of his final Late Show appearance, unbeknownst to Letterman and most others outside of Hicks' immediate family, and died less than four months later.\n\nLetterman finally aired the censored routine in its entirety on January 30, 2009. Hicks's mother, Mary, was present in the studio and appeared on-camera as a guest. Letterman took responsibility for the original decision to remove Hicks's set from the 1993 show. \"It says more about me as a guy than it says about Bill,\" he said, after the set aired, \"because there was absolutely nothing wrong with that.\"\n\nFor many years, Hicks was friends with fellow comedian Denis Leary. But in 1993, Hicks was angered by Leary's album \"No Cure for Cancer\", which featured lines and subject matter similar to Hicks' routine. According to \"American Scream: The Bill Hicks Story\" by Cynthia True, upon hearing the album Bill was furious. \"All these years, aside from the occasional jibe, he had pretty much shrugged off Leary's lifting. Comedians borrowed, stole stuff, and even bought bits from one another. Milton Berle and Robin Williams were famous for it. This was different. Leary had practically taken line for line huge chunks of Bill's act and \"recorded\" it.\" The friendship ended abruptly as a result.\n\nAt least three stand-up comedians have gone on the record stating they believe Leary stole Hicks's material as well as his persona and attitude. In an interview, when Hicks was asked why he had quit smoking, he answered, \"I just wanted to see if Denis would, too.\" In another interview, Hicks said, \"I have a scoop for you. I stole his [Leary's] act. I camouflaged it with punchlines, and, to really throw people off, I did it before he did.\" During a 2003 Comedy Central Roast of Denis Leary, comedian Lenny Clarke, a friend of Leary's, said there was a carton of cigarettes backstage from Bill Hicks with the message, \"Wish I had gotten these to you sooner.\" This joke was cut from the final broadcast.\n\nThe controversy surrounding plagiarism is also mentioned in \"American Scream\":\n\nHicks's performance style was seen as a play on his audience's emotions. He expressed anger, disgust, and apathy while addressing the audience in a casual and personal manner, which he likened to merely conversing with his friends. He would invite his audiences to challenge authority and the existential nature of \"accepted truth.\" One such message, which he often used in his shows, was delivered in the style of a news report (in order to draw attention to the negative slant news organizations give to any story about drugs):\nThe American philosopher and ethnomycologist Terence McKenna was a frequent source of Hicks' most controversial psychedelic and philosophical counter-cultural material; he infamously acted out an abridged version of McKenna's \"Stoned Ape\" model of human evolution as a routine during several of his final shows.\n\nAnother of Hicks's most quoted lines was delivered during a gig in Chicago in 1989 (later released as the bootleg \"I'm Sorry, Folks\"). After a heckler repeatedly shouted \"Free Bird\", Hicks screamed that \"Hitler had the right idea; he was just an underachiever!\" Hicks followed this remark with a misanthropic tirade calling for unbiased genocide against the whole of humanity.\n\nMuch of Hicks's routine involved direct attacks on mainstream society, religion, politics, and consumerism. Asked in a BBC interview why he cannot do a routine that appeals \"to everyone\", he said that such an act was impossible. He responded by repeating a comment that an audience member once made to him, \"We don't come to comedy to think!\", to which he replied, \"Gee, where do you go to think? I'll meet you there!\" When asked whether there was a \"half way\" point between audience expectations and his own, he said: \"but my way \"is\" half-way between, I mean, this is a night-club, and, you know, these are adults, and what do you expect?\"\n\nHicks often discussed popular conspiracy theories in his performances, most notably the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. He mocked the Warren Report and the official version of Lee Harvey Oswald as a \"lone nut assassin.\" He also questioned the guilt of David Koresh and the Branch Davidian compound during the Waco Siege. Hicks would end some of his shows, especially those being recorded in front of larger audiences as albums, with a mock \"assassination\" of himself on stage, making gunshot sound effects into the microphone while falling to the ground.\n\nOn June 16, 1993, Hicks was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer that had spread to his liver.\nHe started receiving weekly chemotherapy, while still touring and also recording his album, \"Arizona Bay\", with Booth. He was also working with comedian Fallon Woodland on a pilot episode of a new talk show, entitled \"Counts of the Netherworld\" for Channel 4 at the time of his death. The budget and concept had been approved, and a pilot was filmed. The \"Counts of the Netherworld\" pilot was shown at the various Tenth Anniversary Tribute Night events around the world on February 26, 2004. After being diagnosed with cancer, Hicks would often joke that any given performance could be his last; the public, however, was unaware of his condition, and only a few close friends and family members knew of the disease. He performed the final show of his career at Caroline's in New York on January 6, 1994; he moved back to his parents' house in Little Rock, Arkansas, shortly thereafter. He called his friends to say goodbye before he stopped speaking on February 14.\n\nHicks died from the effects of pancreatic cancer on Saturday, February 26, 1994 in Little Rock at the age of 32. His body was buried in the family grave plot in Magnolia Cemetery, Leakesville, Mississippi.\n\nIn early 1995 his family released a brief essay that Hicks had written a week prior to his death:\n\nHis albums \"Arizona Bay\" and \"Rant in E-Minor\" were released posthumously in 1997 on the Voices imprint of the Rykodisc label. \"Dangerous\" and \"Relentless\" were re-released simultaneously.\n\nIn a 2005 poll to find The Comedian's Comedian, comedians and comedy insiders voted Hicks 13th on their list of \"The Top 20 Greatest Comedy Acts Ever\". In \"Comedy Central Presents: 100 Greatest Stand-ups of All Time\" (2004), Hicks was ranked 19th. In March 2007, he was voted sixth on Britain's Channel 4 list of the 100 Greatest Stand-Up Comics, and rose to number four on the 2010 list.\n\nDevotees have incorporated Hicks's words, image, and attitude into their own creations. By means of audio sampling, fragments of his rants, diatribes, social criticisms, and philosophies have found their way into many musical works, such as the live version of Super Furry Animals' \"The Man Don't Give a Fuck\" and Adam Freeland's \"We Want Your Soul\". His influence on the band Tool is well documented as he is sampled at the beginning of their song \"Third Eye\"; he \"appears\" on the Fila Brazillia album \"Maim That Tune\" (1995) and on SPA's eponymously entitled album \"SPA\" (1997), which are both dedicated to Hicks; the British band Radiohead's second album \"The Bends\" (1995) is also dedicated to his memory. American indie rock band Built to Spill's song \"Planting Seeds\" on its 2009 album \"There Is No Enemy\" alludes to Hicks's routine on advertising and marketing, which appears on the performance film \"Bill Hicks: Revelations\". Singer/songwriter Tom Waits listed \"Rant in E-Minor\" as one of his 20 most cherished albums of all time.\n\nComedians who have cited Hicks as an inspiration include Joe Rogan, Dave Attell, Lewis Black, Patton Oswalt, David Cross, Russell Brand, Ron White, Frankie Boyle, and Brendon Burns.\n\nThe British actor Chas Early portrayed Hicks in the one-man stage show \"Bill Hicks: Slight Return\", which premiered in 2004. The show was co-written by Chas Early and Richard Hurst, and imagined Hicks's view of the world 10 years after his death.\n\nHicks is mentioned in the 1999 British film \"Human Traffic\". In the movie, the young and hip club-going protagonist, \"Jip\" praises Hicks as an alternative thinker, and explains that he needs to get a regular infusion of Hicks's insights. Before leaving his house to start on the movie's main adventure, Jip states: \"...first a daily injection of the late prophet Bill Hicks... just to remind me not to take life too seriously.\" He then watches a clip of one of Hicks's rants about drugs, and how they had never affected him badly.\n\nOn February 25, 2004, British MP Stephen Pound tabled an early day motion entitled \"Anniversary of the Death of Bill Hicks\" (EDM 678 of the 2003–04 session), the text of which reads:\nHicks appeared in a flashback scene in writer Garth Ennis's Vertigo comic-book series \"Preacher\", in the story \"Underworld\" in issue No. 31 (Nov. 1997).\n\nHicks is the subject of the 2000 tribute song \"Bill Hicks\" by fellow Texan Ed Hamell of Hamell on Trial.\n\n\"Annex Houston\" (1986) was a video of an early stand up performance live at Texas.\n\n\"Sane Man\" (1989) is the first officially video recorded Bill Hicks show.\n\n\"Ninja Bachelor Party\" (1991) is a 1991 low-budget comedy film produced by and starring Bill Hicks, Kevin Booth, and David Johndrow. It is a parody of martial arts movies and was intentionally dubbed improperly.\n\n\"One Night Stand\" (1991) is an HBO stand-up series that first aired on February 15, 1989. The half-hour series aired weekly and featured stand-up comedy specials from some of the top performing comedians. The series originally comprised 55 specials over the course of its four years on HBO.\n\n\"Relentless\" (1992) was recorded at the Centaur Theatre during the annual Just for Laughs Comedy Festival in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Despite the common title, the CD album was recorded at a separate performance, after the Just for Laughs festival had closed.\n\n\"Revelations\" (1992) is one more live performance that Bill Hicks performed at the Dominion Theatre, London in November 1992.\n\nA documentary entitled \"\", based on interviews with his family and friends, premiered on March 12, 2010, at the South by Southwest Film Festival in Austin, Texas.\n\nRussell Crowe announced in 2012 that he would direct a Bill Hicks biopic. Crowe was originally thought to be playing the comedian, but Mark Staufer, the actor's schoolmate and writer on the film, suggested the part is now open for casting. Production was expected to start in 2013, but, as of 2018, no further announcements regarding the film's progress have been made.\n\n"}
{"id": "13993280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13993280", "title": "Counselor education", "text": "Counselor education\n\nCounselor Education is a field focused on the preparation of students to professionally apply the theory and principles of guidance and counseling for the personal, social, educational, and vocational development of others. The primary focus of counselor education is the training and preparation of professional counselors; this includes recruiting and training the future generations of academic professionals who will teach the curriculum of counseling theory and practice. \n\nIn order to acquire licensure, counselors are generally required to complete an accredited graduate program along with a minimum number of documented hours in supervised clinical fieldwork. Counselor Education degree programs can become accredited by The Council for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs. Rehabilitation Counselor Education degree programs can become accredited by The National Council on Rehabilitation Education.\n\nScholarship within counselor education centers on the training and education of master's or doctoral-level counseling graduate students, novel applications of counseling theory including competencies across cultural groups, and best practice guidelines in both academic and clinical or applied settings. Counselor educators as a professional group are trained in multiple methodological approaches to research including both qualitative and quantitative methods.\n"}
{"id": "1919259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1919259", "title": "Damin", "text": "Damin\n\nDamin \"(Demiin\" in the practical orthography of Lardil) was a ceremonial language register used by the advanced initiated men of the aboriginal Lardil (\"Leerdil\" in the practical orthography) and the Yangkaal peoples of Australia. Both inhabit islands in the Gulf of Carpentaria, the Lardil on Mornington Island, the largest island of the Wesley Group, and the Yangkaal on the Forsyth Islands. Their languages belong to the same family, the Tankic languages. Lardil is the most divergent of the Tankic languages, while the others are mutually comprehensible with Yangkaal.\n\nThe Lardil word \"Demiin\" can be translated as \"being silent\".\n\nThe Lardil had two initiation ceremonies for men, namely \"luruku\", which involved circumcision, and \"warama\", which involved penile subincision. There were no ceremonies for women, although women did play an important role in these ceremonies, especially in the luruku ceremony.\n\nIt is sometimes said that Damin was a secret language, but this is misleading since there was no attempt to prevent the uninitiated members of the Leerdil tribe from overhearing it. However it was taught during the \"warama\" ceremony and, therefore, in isolation from the uninitiated. At least one elder is known, who, though not having been subincised, had an excellent command of Damin, but this seems to have been a unique case.\n\nDamin lexical words were organised into semantic fields and shouted out to the initiate in a single session. As each word was announced, a second speaker gave its Lardil equivalent. However, it normally took several sessions before a novice mastered the basics and could use Damin openly in the community. One speaker did claim to have learned to speak Damin in a single session, but on the other hand two senior \"warama\" men admitted that they lacked a firm command of the register.\n\nOnce Damin had been learned, the speakers were known as \"Demiinkurlda\" (\"Damin possessors\"). They spoke the register particularly in ritual contexts, but also in everyday secular life, when foraging, sitting about gossiping, and the like.\n\nDamin is the only click language outside Africa.\n\nDamin had a much more restricted and generic lexicon than everyday language. With only about 150 lexical roots, each word in Damin stood for several words of Lardil or Yangkaal. It had only two pronouns (\"n!a\" \"me\" (ego) and \"n!u\" \"not me\" (alter)), for example, compared to Lardil's nineteen, and had an antonymic prefix \"kuri-\" (\"jijuu\" \"small\", \"kurijijuu\" \"large\").\n\nGrammatically, the Damin registers of the Lardil and Yangkaal use all the grammatical morphology of those languages, and so therefore are broadly similar, though it does not employ the phonologically conditioned alternations of that morphology.\n\nDamin words have three of Lardil's four pairs of vowels, ; the fourth, , occurs in grammatical suffixes. Vowel length is not contrastive, but depends on the preceding consonant. Damin uses only some of the (pulmonic) consonants of everyday Lardil, but they are augmented by four other airstream mechanisms: lingual ingressive (the nasal clicks), glottalic egressive (a velar ejective), pulmonic ingressive (an indrawn lateral fricative), and lingual egressive (a bilabial 'spurt'). Even some of the pulmonic egressive consonants are exotic for the Australian context: fricatives, voiceless nasals, and bilabial trills. The consonants of Damin, in the practical orthography and IPA equivalents, are:\n§ These sounds are found in standard Lardil, but not in Damin, apart from grammatical words and suffixes.\n\n\"L*\" is described as \"ingressive with egressive glottalic release\".\n\nThere is no alveolar–retroflex distinction in Damin, with the possible exception of the clicks. (This distinction is neutralized word-initially in Lardil, as it is in most Australian languages.) However, Hale notes that the Damin alveolar and retroflex clicks (found in the pronouns \"n!aa, n!uu\" and in \"rn!aa, rn!ii\" respectively) might be in complementary distribution, and it is not clear that they are distinct sounds.\n\nSome of the consonants listed above only occur in clusters. only occurs as a coda. A derivational rule seems to be to pronounce all onset nasals as clicks; it is likely that is not a click because a velar click in the straightforward sense is not possible.\n\nDamin consonant clusters at the beginning of a word are \"p'ny\" , \"p'ng\" , \"fny\" , \"fng\" , \"fy\" , \"prpry\" , \"thrr\" . Words in normal Lardil may not begin with a cluster. However, Lardil has several clusters in the middle of words, and many of these are not found in Damin words, as Damin only allows \"n\" and \"rr\" in a syllable coda. (The attested stem\nmedial Damin clusters are \"rrd, rrth, rrk, rrb, jb\" (Hale & Nash 1997: 255), though \"j\" of \"jb\" is supposedly not allowed in that position. Other clusters, such as nasal–stop, are produced by Lardil grammatical suffixes.)\n\nHale & Nash posit that Damin syllables (not counting codas) may only be CVV or CCV. Purported CV syllables are restricted to C = , , , suggesting that these are underlyingly iterated consonants. Hale suggests they might be \"k2, ng2, l2\" (rather as is a realization of \"j2\" ) and also that \"thrr\" might be \"d2\" . (Note that transcription of vowel length is inconsistent, and the vocabulary given above does not follow these patterns.)\n\nNo consonant occurs before all three vowels. Known sequences are as follows. Note however that with only 150 roots in Damin, and several consonants and consonant clusters attested from only a single root, there are certain to be accidental gaps in this list.\n\nDamin is spoken by replacing the lexical roots of ordinary Lardil with Damin words. Apart from a leveling of grammatical allomorphs, the grammar remains the same. For example,\n\nSome vocabulary:\n\nAntonymic derivation with \"kurri-\":\n\nSpecific reference requires paraphrasing. For example, a sandpiper is called a 'person-burning creature' (\"ngaajpu wiiwi-n wuujpu\" human burn- animal) in reference to its role as a character in the Rainbow Serpent Story, while a wooden axe is 'wood that (negatively) affects honey' (\"m!iwu didi-i-n wiijpu\" honey affect- wood\")\n\nThere is some suggestion of internal morphology or compounding, as suggested by the patterns in the word list above. For example, \"m!iwu\" '(native) beehive, honey' and \"wum!i\" 'sp. mud crab' may derive from \"m!ii\" 'food' and \"wuu\" 'mud shell clam'.\n\nThe origin of Damin is unclear. The Lardil and the Yangkaal say that Damin was created by a mythological figure in Dreamtime. Hale and colleagues believe that it was invented by Lardil elders; it has several aspects found in language games around the world, such as turning nasal occlusives such as \"m\" and \"n\" into nasal clicks, doubling consonants, and the like. Evans and colleagues, after studying the mythology of both tribes, speculate that it was the Yangkaal elders who invented Damin and passed it to the Lardil.\n\nThe cultural traditions of the Lardil and Yangkaal have been in decline for several decades, and the Lardil and Yangkaal languages are nearly extinct. The last \"warama\" ceremony was held in the 1950s, so nowadays Damin is no longer in use by either the Yangkaal or the Lardil. However, recently a revival of cultural traditions has begun, and \"luruku\" has been celebrated. It remains to be seen whether \"warama\" ceremonies will also be reactivated.\n\n"}
{"id": "24330662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24330662", "title": "Dark Lord", "text": "Dark Lord\n\nIn fiction, Dark Lord (or Evil Overlord) is often used to refer to a powerful villain or antagonist with evil henchmen. In particular, it is used as a moniker in fictional worlds where it is thought that pronouncing the villain's real name will bring bad luck or represents a bad omen. Such a villain usually seeks to rule or destroy the people around them (such as Voldemort in Harry Potter, Sauron in Lord of the Rings etc)\n\nIn a religious context, Dark Lord usually means Satan or other similar entities who hold power over lesser fiendish creatures and seek to disrupt the comfort and lives of people. \n\nIn fantasy novels, Dark Lords have become something of a cliché stemming from the success of J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\", in which the main antagonist, Sauron, is often referred to as the \"Dark Lord\". On occasion, the people of Gondor in Middle-earth refer to Sauron as \"The Enemy\" or \"The Nameless Enemy\" despite knowing his real name; arguably starting the practice of avoiding pronouncing a Dark Lord's actual name. In fact the name Sauron, meaning the Abhorred, itself is already a mockery of his actual name given him by his enemies, with his original name being Mairon, the Admirable. He was known by this name before joining Morgoth's forces, and continued calling himself Mairon. In Tolkien's legendarium, Sauron is the second Dark Lord; he was the lieutenant of the first Dark Lord, Morgoth (also a title or epithet meaning \"dark enemy\"), until the latter's defeat. Morgoth's original name was Melkor (\"he who arises in might\"). Following the example of Sauron, Dark Lords in fantasy are always depicted as immensely powerful and implacably evil creatures with a great desire for power. One example of a powerful Dark Lord in the world of literature is the Dark Wizard Lord Voldemort from J. K. Rowling's \"Harry Potter\" novels, earning his place as a Dark Lord having surpassed the magical abilities of any other dark wizard before him, thus he is considered not a Dark Wizard but the first and only Dark Lord within the Harry Potter franchise, being so powerful and evil that his enemies even dreaded to speak his name. Dark Lords have a negative effect in their worlds, throwing them into ruin and despair. Sauron, for example, turned Mordor into a \"wasteland where the very air saps one's will\". He planned to do the same to all of Middle-earth. Dark Lords have mostly been male, with few exceptions such as the White Witch from \"The Chronicles of Narnia\", who casts the world into an eternal winter but never Christmas.\n\nDark Lord characters do not often engage in direct conflict with protagonists. They are dark gods, demons or rulers of lands who exist in other dimensions, and/or maintain a dark, inaccessible fortress. They rely on a vast network of minions, often with an extremely hierarchical structure. In \"Star Wars\", \"Dark Lord\" is a rank achieved by those who become Sith Lords as in the \"Dark Lord of the Sith\". The most recognized Dark Lords of Star Wars are Darth Sidious, Darth Maul, Darth Tyranus and Darth Vader.\n\nThe frequency in which the Dark Lord cliche occurs spawned the Evil Overlord List, a website satirizing the mistakes of Dark Lords and major villains. Frequently, antagonists in fiction will display numerous Dark Lord mannerisms while belonging to another genre of the fictional villain, and some pertain to more than one genre. An example is Davros from \"Doctor Who\", whose position as the creator of the Daleks and later ruler of their empire marks him both as a Dark Lord and a mad scientist.\n\nIn comics, villains are usually considered Dark Lords either by the format of the story in which the villain appears or because of the villain’s modus operandi. For example, Ming the Merciless, Thanos and Darkseid are alien despots and could fall under the category of alien invaders. However, they exist within stories of such operatic nature, with elements of swashbuckling adventure and mythological analogy, that they are considered specifically to be Dark Lords. Alternatively, comic book villains The Kingpin and the 1990-era Lex Luthor could be considered modern-day versions of a Dark Lord, but more closely fall under the categories of a crime lord or a mad scientist, respectively. This is mostly due to these characters traditionally seeking a public identity as a businessman or a philanthropist, while keeping their criminal activities secret. This is at odds with one of the hallmarks of a Dark Lord, which is that they act from or deliberately seek out a position of legal authority, albeit often self-appointed, and even their most nefarious deeds are often performed publicly.\n\nA recent example can be found on the television series \"Once Upon a Time\", where the title \"The Dark One\" identifies someone with prolific magical powers whose life and powers are bound to a dagger bearing their name as an inscription. Whoever possesses the dagger can control the Dark One, but if they kill the Dark One with it, they become the new Dark One themselves. In this series, the first Dark One was Nimue the lover of Merlin. For 1000 years the Dark Ones have terrorized the people of the enchanted forest leading up to the current Dark One, Rumplestiltskin/Mr. Gold.\n\nMany fantasy games, as well as some of the science fiction genre, feature a Dark Lord who rules over one faction in the game. While this character is often the antagonist and final boss, some RPGs, such as Dark Souls, allows the player to earn this title for themselves. As this would often make the player character be in-charge of the game's hordes of enemies the moniker is usually granted at one of multiple endings. In order to make sequel games, this is often considered the non-canon ending, as in , but some games, like , use this ending to turn the powered up anti-hero into the series' new antagonist.\n\n"}
{"id": "4582402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4582402", "title": "Durrani dynasty", "text": "Durrani dynasty\n\nThe Durrani dynasty () was founded in 1747 by Ahmad Shah Durrani at Kandahar, Afghanistan. He united the different Pashtun tribes and created the Durrani Empire with his Baloch allies, which at its peak included the modern-day Afghanistan, Pakistan, as well as some parts of northeastern Iran, eastern Turkmenistan, and northwestern India including the Kashmir region.\nThe Durranis were replaced by the Barakzai dynasty during the early half of the 19th century.\n\nAhmad Shah and his descendants were from the Sadduzai line of the Durranis (formerly known as \"Abdalis\"), making them the second Pashtun rulers of Kandahar after the Hotak dynasty. The Durranis were very notable in the second half of the 18th century mainly due to the leadership of Ahmad Shah Durrani.\n\nNader Shah's rule ended in June 1747 after being murdered by his Persian soldiers. In October 1747, when the chiefs of the Afghans met at a loya jirga (grand council) in Kandahar to select a new ruler for the Abdali confederation, the young 25-year-old Ahmad Khan was chosen. Despite being younger than other claimants, Ahmad Khan had several overriding factors in his favour:\nOne of Ahmad Khan's first acts as chief was to adopt the title \"Padshah durr-i durrān\" (King, \"pearl of the age\" or \"pearl of pearls\"). The name may have been suggested, as some claim, from a dream, or as others claim, from the pearl earrings worn by the royal guard of Nadir Shah. The Abdali Pashtuns were known thereafter as the Durrani, and the name of the Abdali confederation was changed to Durrani.\n\nAhmad Shah began his campaign by capturing Ghazni from the Ghilji Pashtuns, and then wresting Kabul from the local ruler. In 1749, the Mughal ruler was induced to cede Sindh, the Punjab region and the important trans Indus River to Ahmad Shah in order to save his capital from Afghan attack. Having thus gained substantial territories to the east without a fight, Ahmad Shah turned westward to take possession of Herat, which was ruled by Nader Shah's grandson, Shah Rukh of Persia. Herat fell to Ahmad after almost a year of siege and bloody conflict, as did Mashad (in present-day Iran). Ahmad Shah next sent an army to subdue the areas north of the Hindu Kush mountains. In short order, the powerful army brought under its control the Turkmen, Uzbek, Tajik and Hazara tribes of northern Afghanistan. Ahmad Shah invaded the remnants of the Mughal Empire a third time, and then a fourth, consolidating control over the Punjab and Kashmir regions. Then, early in 1757, he sacked Delhi, but permitted the Mughal dynasty to remain in nominal control of the city as long as the ruler acknowledged Ahmad Shah's suzerainty over Punjab, Sindh, and Kashmir. Leaving his second son Timur Shah to safeguard his interests, Ahmad Shah left Hindustan (India) to return to Afghanistan.\n\nAlarmed by the expansion of China's Qing Dynasty up to the western border of Kazakhstan, Ahmad Shah attempted to rally neighbouring Muslim khanates and the Kazakhs to unite and attack China, ostensibly to liberate its western Muslim subjects. Ahmad Shah halted trade with Qing China and dispatched troops to Kokand. However, with his campaigns in India exhausting the state treasury, and with his troops stretched thin throughout Central Asia, Ahmad Shah lacked sufficient resources to do anything except to send envoys to Beijing for unsuccessful talks.\n\nThe Mughal power in northern India had been declining since the reign of Aurangzeb, who died in 1707; In 1751–52, \"Ahamdiya\" treaty was signed between the Marathas and Mughals, when Balaji Bajirao was the Peshwa. Through this treaty, the Marathas controlled virtually the whole of India from their capital at Pune and Mughal rule was restricted only to Delhi (the Mughals remained the nominal heads of Delhi). Marathas were now straining to expand their area of control towards the northwest of India. Ahmad Shah sacked the Mughal capital and withdrew with the booty he coveted. To counter the Afghans, Peshwa Balaji Bajirao sent Raghunathrao. He defeated the Rohillas and Afghan garrisons in Punjab and succeeded in ousting Timur Shah and his court from India and brought Lahore, Multan, Kashmir and other subahs on the Indian side of Attock under Maratha rule.\n\nAhmad Shah Abdali declared a jihad (or Islamic holy war) against the Marathas, and warriors from various Pashtun tribes and 25,000 Baloch warriors joined his army under the command of Khan of Kalat Mir Noori Naseer Khan Baloch. Early skirmishes were followed by victory for the Afghans and Baloch against the smaller Maratha garrisons in Northwest India and by 1759 Ahmad and his army had reached Lahore and were poised to confront the Marathas. By 1760, the Maratha groups had coalesced into a big enough army under the command of Sadashivrao Bhau. Once again, Panipat was the scene of a confrontation between two warring contenders for control of northern India. The Third Battle of Panipat (January 1761), fought between largely Muslim and largely Hindu armies was waged along a twelve-kilometer front. Despite decisively defeating the Marathas, what might have been Ahmad Shah's peaceful control of his domains was disrupted by many challenges. As far as losses are concerned, Afghans too suffered heavily in the Third Battle of Panipat. This weakened his grasp over Punjab which fell to the rising Sikh misls. There were rebellions in the north in the region of Bukhara.\n\nThe victory at Panipat was the high point of Ahmad Shah. The Durrani was the second largest Islamic empire in the world, behind the Ottoman Empire at that time. However, even prior to his death, the empire began to unravel. In 1762, Ahmad Shah crossed the passes from Afghanistan for the sixth time to subdue the Sikhs. He assaulted Lahore and, after taking their holy city of Amritsar, massacred thousands of Sikh inhabitants, destroying their revered Golden Temple. Within two years, the Sikhs rebelled again and rebuilt their holy city of Amritsar. Ahmad Shah tried several more times to subjugate the Sikhs permanently, but failed.\n\nIn early 1771, ten years after the collapse of Maratha supremacy in north India in the Third Battle of Panipat, Marathas under Mahadji Shinde recaptured Delhi and restored the Mughal Emperor Shah Alam II to the throne in 1772. Ahmad Shah also faced other rebellions in the north, and eventually he and the Uzbek Emir of Bukhara agreed that the Amu Darya would mark the division of their lands. Ahmad Shah retired to his home in the mountains east of Kandahar, where he died on 14 April 1773. He had succeeded to a remarkable degree in balancing tribal alliances and hostilities, and in directing tribal energies away from rebellion. He earned recognition as Ahmad Shah Baba, or \"Father of Afghanistan.\"\n\nBy the time of Ahmad Shah's ascendancy, the Pashtuns included many groups whose origins were obscure; most were believed to have descended from ancient Aryan tribes. They had in common, however, their Pashto language. To the east, the Waziris and their close relatives, the Mahsuds, had lived in the hills of the central Sulaiman Mountains since the 14th century. By the end of the 16th century and the final Mughal invasions, tribes such as the Shinwaris, Yusufzais, and Mohmands had moved from the upper Kabul River Valley into the valleys and plains west, north, and northeast of Peshawar. The Afridis had long been established in the hills and mountain ranges south of the Khyber Pass. By the end of the 18th century, the Durranis had blanketed the area west and north of Kandahar Province.\n\nThe main cause of the decline of the Durrani dynasty was the loss of thousands of battle hardened troops against the Marathas and relentless efforts of the Sikhs. Though Afghans defeated the Marathas decisively at the Third Battle of Panipat, there was a great loss of Durrani Empire's military power in the entire struggle. The Sikh misls, after suffering at the hands of the Afghans initially, took an advantage of loosening Durrani control over Punjab due to weakening of power in the struggle against Marathas, rose into rebellion and eventually united under Ranjit Singh. They were able to re-capture Amritsar (1802), Ludhiana (1806), Multan, Kashmir, Ladakh, Peshawar, the Khyber Pass and Lahore. By the time Ranjit Singh of the Sikh Empire died, the Sikhs had taken Kashmir and the whole Punjab from the Afghans.\n\nThe 1837 Battle of Jamrud became the last confrontation between the Afghans and the Sikhs. Akbar Khan led an attack on the Sikhs in which he killed Sikh Commander Hari Singh Nalwa before returning to Kabul.\n\n"}
{"id": "4151744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4151744", "title": "Elastic scoring", "text": "Elastic scoring\n\nElastic scoring is a style of orchestration or music arrangement that was first used by the Australian composer Percy Grainger.\n\nThis technique of orchestration is used to provide composers with the option of allowing a diverse group of voices or instrumentalists the ability to perform their music. An example of this is when a composer or arranger provides extra sheet music parts so a flute quartet (four flutes) can play the same piece as a group comprising two flutes, alto flute and bass flute, resulting a choir-like sound. In other words, a subtle re-engineering of the original work.\n\nThis technique involves making extra and/or interchangeable musical parts which provide substitutions for more or fewer musicians depending on what is required for an individual performance. This also allows a musical work to be played in smaller communities where the required instruments may not always be available.\n\nOne of the main tenets of elastic scoring is that the new arrangement preserve as much as possible the original interval relationship (to the closest octave) between notes while not being overly concerned with timbre (tone colour) or number of instruments. Timbre is the aspect of music varied most through changing instrument or number of instruments.\n\nBesides providing alternative instrumentation in the form of sheet music parts, the elastic scoring concept allows three subsets of scoring music.\n\nLateral scoring can be said to have occurred when a piece of music is set for one or more instruments from the original number of instruments. An example of this is if a piece of music set for flute and piano is re-scored for clarinet and piano. In this instance, the intervallic relationships remain the same, but the tone colour has changed.\n\nExpansion scoring is a style of arranging or orchestration that lets composers and arrangers enlarge the original work from a smaller score to a larger one. An example of this is when a string quartet is expanded to become a piece for string orchestra.\n\nContraction scoring lets composers and arrangers reduce the original work from a larger score to a smaller score, such as when an orchestral work is reduced to piano part. The resulting piano score is more commonly known as a piano reduction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "459177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459177", "title": "Flag of Lithuania", "text": "Flag of Lithuania\n\nThe flag of Lithuania () consists of a horizontal tricolor of yellow, green, and red. It was adopted on 25 April 1918 during Lithuania's first period of independence (in the 20th century) from 1918 to 1940, which ceased with the occupation first by Soviet Russia and Lithuania's annexation into the Soviet Union, and then by Nazi Germany (1941–1944). During the post-World War II Soviet occupation, from 1945 until 1989, the Soviet Lithuanian flag consisted first of a generic red Soviet flag with the name of the republic, then changed to the red flag with white and green bars at the bottom. \n\nThe flag was then re-adopted on 20 March 1989, almost a year before the re-establishment of Lithuania's independence and almost three years before the collapse of the Soviet Union. The last alteration to the current flag occurred in 2004, when the aspect ratio changed from 1:2 to 3:5.\n\nThe earliest known flags with a Lithuanian identity were recorded in the 15th-century \"Banderia Prutenorum\", written by Jan Długosz. At the Battle of Grunwald in 1410, two distinct flags were present. The majority of the 40 regiments carried a red banner depicting a mounted knight in pursuit. This flag, known as the \"Vytis\", would eventually be used as the Lithuanian war flag, and again in 2004 as the state flag. \nThe remainder of the regiments carried a red banner displaying the Columns of Gediminas. Those that bore the Vytis, also known as the Pahonia, were armies from the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, while those who bore the Columns of Gediminas were from noble families of Lithuania. Until the end of the 18th century, when it was annexed by the Russian Empire, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania used the Vytis as its flag.\n\nThe birth of the yellow, green, and red tricolor occurred during a drive by other European republics to change their flags. One example that gave life to the idea of the tricolor was the French blue, white, and red flag adopted after the French Revolution. The only tricolor that existed for Lithuania before the yellow, green, and red flag was a green, white, and red flag used to represent Lithuania Minor.\n\nIt is not known who originally suggested the yellow, green, and red colors, but the idea is usually attributed to Lithuanian exiles living elsewhere in Europe or in the United States during the 19th century. These three colors were frequently used in folk weavings and traditional dress. At the Great Seimas of Vilnius of 1905, this flag was favored over the Vytis banner as the flag of the Lithuanian nation. The Vytis, strongly advocated by Jonas Basanavičius, was not chosen for three reasons: the first was that as part of the drive for national identity, the Seimas wished to distance itself somewhat from the flag of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, which also encompassed now-distinct nations such as Belarus and Ukraine. The second issue was the choice of the color red by revolutionaries who aligned themselves with Marxist or Communist causes. And finally, the flag with Vytis would be too complicated and could not be easily sewn.\n\nDebates about the national flag occurred again in 1917 during the Vilnius Conference. Two colors, green and red, were chosen based on their prevalence in folk art. Artist Antanas Žmuidzinavičius decorated the conference hall with small red and green flags. However, the delegates did not like the design as it was too dark and gloomy. Then Tadas Daugirdas suggested adding a narrow strip of yellow (to symbolize the rising sun) in between the red (clouds lit up by the morning sun) and green (fields and forests). However, the delegates decided that the matter should be settled by a special commission, composed of Basanavičius, Žmuidzinavičius, and Daugirdas. On 19 April 1918, they submitted their final protocol to the Council of Lithuania. The flag was supposed to be a tri-color (yellow at the top, green in the middle, and red at the bottom) with Vytis in the upper left corner or in the middle. The Council accepted the proposal, but the 1922 Constitution of Lithuania did not include any mention of the coat of arms. It adopted the national flag that is used today. Any of the debates failed to produce a historical flag. Discussions of the national flag continued; its opponents considered gold an inappropriate color, since the combination of yellow, green, and red did not follow the existing rules of heraldry. However, no changes were made during the inter-war period.\n\nDuring World War II, Lithuania was occupied by the Soviet Union (1940–1941, 1944–1990) and Nazi Germany (1941–1944). The use of the national flag during this period was prohibited and prosecuted. Two flags were used during the period of Soviet occupation (1944–1989): immediately after the war, the flag consisted of a red field, golden hammer and sickle with the Latin characters \"LIETUVOS TSR\" (Lithuanian SSR in the Lithuanian language) above them in gold sans-serif lettering. That flag was replaced in 1953 by the last flag used by the Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic—a red flag, with the hammer and sickle and star in the hoist. At the bottom of the flag, a white and green horizontal bar was placed. The red portion of the flag took of the flag's width, the white and the green .\n\nDuring 1988, when the Lithuanian movement towards independence was gaining strength, the Lithuanian Supreme Soviet again recognized the tricolor as the national flag, by amending article 168 of the Constitution (Fundamental Law) of the Lithuanian SSR. The flag was defined as rectangular tricolor which consists of three equally sized horizontal stripes: the upper is yellow, the middle is green, the lower is red; the flag ratio was to be 1:2 (as that of Soviet flags). This flag was confirmed by the Provisional Constitution of 11 March 1990 № I-10.\n\nAfter independence from the Soviet Union, the tricolor flag was written into the new Constitution of Lithuania, which was adopted by a referendum in 1992. This constitution has not specified the flag aspect ratio and therefore it remained 1:2 until 2004, when 1991 law \"On the national flag and other flags\" was revised by 8 July 2004 law no. IX-2331, making the flag ratio 3:5.\n\nPassed on 26 June 1991, the Law of the Republic of Lithuania on the Lithuanian State Flag (Law No. I-1497) governs the design, sizes and use of the state flag. The law was amended on 8 July 2004, (Law No. IX-2331) with the most notable changes including the switching of the national flag ratio from 1:2 to 3:5 and the official adoption of a historical flag as the state (government) flag. The amendment came into force on 1 September 2004, after it was approved by President Valdas Adamkus.\n\nThe yellow in the flag is meant to symbolize the sun and prosperity, the green is for the forests, the countryside, liberty, and hope, and the red represents the blood and bravery of those who have died for Lithuania. The proper colors of both the national and state flag are made according to the Pantone Matching System, specifically Pantone textile-paper (TP). The ratio of both the national and state flag must be 3:5, with the standard flag size to be . Different sizes of the flag can be created, but they must conform to the color codes and ratio requirements set in the law. The official Pantone colors have been published since 2004; the list below shows the official colors and their suggested equivalents:\n\nIn 2004, along with the law authorizing the change of the flag ratio, a state flag was adopted. This flag displays the national emblem in a banner form. The ratio of the flag is the same as that of the national flag, i.e. 3:5. The state flag, called the \"historical national (armorial) flag\" in law, was proposed by Česlovas Juršėnas, the vice-speaker of the Seimas, and by Edmundas Rimša, the chairman of the Commission of Heraldry. This flag was also proposed at the same time as the grand coat of arms; both were meant to honor the 750th anniversary of the coronation of Mindaugas in 1253. The designer of the State (historic) flag and coat of arms was Arvydas Každailis. Historically, this flag was used during the Battle of Grunwald, and has served as the government flag for Central Lithuania from 1922 until 1939. This was one of the few flags considered to become the national flag during the drive for national independence. Several other countries, including Finland, Spain, Venezuela, Germany and Thailand, have an official national flag for civilian use and a state flag for government use.\n\nUnder the National Flag Law, the state flag is permanently hoisted at three locations: the Royal Palace of Lithuania, Trakai Island Castle, and the grounds of the Vytautas the Great War Museum in Kaunas. In addition, the flag is hoisted at the following locations on these days:\n\n\nThe flag can be flown vertically or horizontally from public buildings, private homes, businesses, ships, town squares, or during official ceremonies. If the flag is flown horizontally, the yellow stripe must be at top; when flown vertically, the yellow stripe must be facing Left with the red stripe facing Right. While the flag should be flown from sunrise to sunset, government offices in Lithuania and abroad must fly the flag on a 24-hour basis. The flags must conform to the legal standards, and cannot be soiled or damaged in any way.\n\nFor mourning activities, the flag can be flown in either of the following ways. The first method, commonly known as half-staffing, is performed when the flag is hoisted to the top of the flagpole, then lowered to the pole's one-third position. The other method is to attach a black ribbon to a flag that is permanently affixed to a staff. The ribbon itself is ten centimetres wide and it is attached to the mast so that the ends of the ribbon reach the bottom of the flag. During a funeral ceremony, the flag may be used to cover the coffins of government officials, soldiers, signatories of the Act of the Re-Establishment of the State of Lithuania, and persons designated by an act of the President; these flags are later folded and presented to the next of kin before interment.\n\nWhen flying the Lithuanian flag with other flags, the following is the correct order of precedence: The national flag, the historical (state) flag, flags of foreign states, the flag of the European Union, international NGOs, the presidential standard, military and government standards, county flags, city flags and any others. When foreign flags are used alongside the Lithuanian flag, the flags are sorted according to their countries' names in the Lithuanian language. The only exception is when the congress or meeting held in Lithuanian dictates a different language to be used for sorting. The European Union flag has been hoisted since Lithuania became a member of the organization. While not mentioned by name in the law, the flag of NATO can be used in Lithuania, since it belongs to that organization as well. It is also common to fly the flags of Estonia and Latvia during certain occasions, mainly the celebration of independence of the three Baltic states. The Law of the Republic of Lithuania on the National Flag and Other Flags governs the rules, use, protocol and manufacturing of the national and other flags used inside the country.\n\nAs part of the flag protocol, the daily display of the Lithuanian flag is encouraged, but is strongly encouraged or legally required on the following days:\n\nApart from these days, the flag is flown at election polling sites. The national government, under Article 4, Section 7 of the flag law, is given the authority to call for the display of the national flag and to determine special conditions, such as marking for mourning.\n\nA naval ensign has been used by Lithuania starting in 1992. The ensign has a white background charged with a blue cross, with the national flag in the canton. The width of each cross is 1/7th of the total width of the ensign, with the ratio being 1:2. Historically, this flag was used as the ensign of the Kaunas Yacht Club, but with a different ratio of 2:3. The naval jack is identical to the historical state flag of Lithuania. A masthead pennant have been adopted by the Lithuanian Navy to use on their ships.\n\nThe President of Lithuania was officially given a standard by the Seimas in 1993. The standard is the State Emblem of Lithuania charged in the center on a single-color background. Under state law, the background color is stated as purple, but the color used in practice is dark red. The ratio of the standard is 1:1.2.\n\nEach county of Lithuania has adopted a flag, each of them conforming to a pattern: a blue rectangle, with ten instances of the Cross of Vytis (double cross or) appearing in gold, acts as a fringe to the central feature of the flag, which is chosen by the county itself. Most of the central designs were adapted from the counties' coat of arms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51040792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51040792", "title": "Flag of Nigeria (1914–1960)", "text": "Flag of Nigeria (1914–1960)\n\nThe Flag of Nigeria between 1914 and 1960 was a British blue ensign with a green Star of David surrounding a Tudor Crown (later changed to a St Edward's Crown in 1953) with the white word \"Nigeria\" under it on a red disc. It was adopted by the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria following the amalgamation of the Southern Nigeria Protectorate and Northern Nigeria Protectorate.\n\nThe colonial flag of Nigeria was adopted in 1914 following the amalgamation of Southern Nigeria and Northern Nigeria. It was first suggested by the first Governor-General of Nigeria, Sir Frederick Lugard as a symbol of the unification of Nigeria and because of the Seal of Solomon which was associated with the native Igbo Jews. The Star of David had already been in use in Nigeria during the British rule because of the Igbo Jews and indeed featured on coins of the British West African pound. This was confirmed in the 1917 discovery of a bronze Star of David attributed to the Igbo Jews in Aguleri. The crest on the flag was also used on the flag of the Governor-General of Nigeria.\nThe flag was not universally accepted. Some native Nigerians, including Fela Kuti, refused to salute the flag despite it being mandated in schools. In 1956, some Nigerian Muslims burned the Nigerian blue ensign at Mecca, Saudi Arabia, because of the Jewish Star of David on it. In 1959, prior to Nigerian Independence a competition to design a new flag was held with Taiwo Akinkunmi designing the new flag of Nigeria which replaced blue ensign in 1960.\n\n"}
{"id": "7460101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7460101", "title": "Gaelic diaspora", "text": "Gaelic diaspora\n\nGaelic diaspora would be understood as referring to the Gaelic-speaking parts of either the Irish diaspora or the Scottish diaspora.\n\nThe use of the term \"diaspora\" in relation to the Gaelic languages is arguably not appropriate as it suggests that Gaelic speakers and people interested in Gaelic outside Scotland have Highland or Scottish ancestry. Research shows that this assumption is inaccurate.\n"}
{"id": "35349104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35349104", "title": "Grabow Altarpiece", "text": "Grabow Altarpiece\n\nThe Grabow Altarpiece (also known as the Petri Altar) was painted by Master Bertram around 1379-1383. Originally located in St. Petri church, it is now in the Hamburger Kunsthalle in Hamburg, Germany.\n\nIt includes the earliest known depiction of the Rest on the Flight into Egypt \n(lower row, last section on the right).\n\nHamburger Kunsthalle webpage showing the full altarpiece (main image, exterior description, interior description)\n"}
{"id": "40236722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40236722", "title": "Infanticide in 19th-century New Zealand", "text": "Infanticide in 19th-century New Zealand\n\nInfanticide in 19th-century New Zealand was difficult to assess, especially for newborn indigenous Maori infants. Resultantly, many New Zealand women who might otherwise have been sentenced to penal servitude or capital punishment in New Zealand had their sentences commuted to the lesser charge of \"concealment of birth\" under the Offences Against the Person Act 1867. However, this relative leniency only extended to mothers of concealed or hidden infants who subsequently died. Fathers, grandparents and \"baby farmers\" like Minnie Dean, the only woman to be executed in New Zealand history and Daniel Cooper in the 1920s, were viewed as more culpable for the death of such infants.\n\nIn a recent volume on childbirth, pregnancy, infant mortality and infanticide in 19th-century New Zealand, Alison Clarke places the deaths of newborn infants in colonial era 19th-century New Zealand in historical context. Over the four decades (1861-1899) for which statistical evidence is available, an estimated cumulative 53,000 such infants perished in New Zealand. Early New Zealand colonial statistics show that from 1872, more than one thousand infants or small toddlers died each year from maladies and environmental factors summarized below, peaking at 1995 such fatalities in 1883, although in 1872 (1941 deaths), 1875 (1816 deaths), 1886 (1889 deaths), and 1899 (1806 deaths), more than one thousand eight hundred infants died.\n\nIf the afflicted child was less than one month old at their time of death, there may have been premature birth. Without the complex life support technology available in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, this would often prove fatal due to the lack of sufficient infant respiratory development. Other than that, newborn infants might also perish from sharing beds with their parents, who might roll over and smother them inadvertently during sleep; negligent parental alcohol abuse and impaired standards of care; administration of alcohol to prevent infant cries; and the associated use of soporific drugs such as laudanum and chlorodyne. In the case of prostitutes and single pregnant women, sexually transmitted diseases might be passed on to their newborn infants during prenatal development, while inadequately warm clothing might affect mortality for the newborn infants of the poor. Infant malnutrition might occur due to lack of awareness of the benefits of breastfeeding for infants, as well as the absence of medical treatment for conditions such as bronchitis, pneumonia, influenza, whooping cough, diphtheria, diarrhoea, enteritis, gastritis, ileus, inherited syphilis and tuberculosis.\n\nIn the case of Maori infants, detailed statistics about infant health and mortality are not as readily available, due to their presence in remote and isolated rural dwellings inaccessible through roading and civic transport. Furthermore, there are social policy considerations that need to be considered, as British colonialism distorted social relationships that may have either hampered or facilitated infanticide in the Maori context. Given the ravages of higher incidence of poor housing, sanitation, malnutrition and infectious diseases, overall 19th-century Maori infant mortality was probably higher than those of European counterparts, however. Against infanticide, however, large family (whanau) structures were often available to care for any such child. While there are accounts of apparent infanticide, they often seem to be second-hand information from pakeha Church of England missionaries. These noted that female infanticide seemed to be prevalent in the context of slavery, cross-cultural relationships and other such inhospitable grounds. Intertribal warfare was also a factor that militated against female infant survival, given the prospect that surviving male children could then become warriors for the defence of a particular iwi (tribal community and social network). However, it is highly probable that the advent of colonialism and introduction of European transport and weapons technology affected the severity and scale of prior tribal conflicts, so this may not reflect an accurate prognosis of Maori infanticide. As time went on, many Maori adopted Christian religious beliefs due to missionary efforts and this reduced the incidence of slavery, cannibalism and homicide amongst such Maori communities, although it also returned even during the early 20th century during times of economic hardship. In short, it is hard to assess the frequency and prevalence of Maori infanticide and its permissibility during the 19th century.\n\nAltogether, Clarke identifies 98 cases of deliberate or intentional infant death that resulted in legal proceedings. Of these, 94 were undertaken against the mother of the deceased infant, while fourteen of these were also undertaken against the baby's father, grandparents or friends of the mother who had assisted in the birth and its concealment. Four involved the father of the deceased infant and another individual, often a grandparent. Usually, if the birth had been concealed, the maximum penalty was two years imprisonment, and as Bronwyn Dalley notes, women could often plead mitigating circumstances through male sexual coercion (a \"seduction\" narrative), although this was not always successful. Some women were convicted of infanticide or manslaughter in this context, although many others were acquitted. Men could not similarly plead \"seduction\" or the trauma of unassisted childbirth in this context; as witnessed by the case of William Henry Woodgate, who committed incest with his niece that subsequently resulted in her pregnancy and childbirth, leading to the killing of the newborn and his subsequent execution for murder in 1877.\n\nOriginally, concealment arose in 17th century Anglo-Scottish law and sought to punish secret illegitimate pregnancies and childbirths in which mothers hid the bodies of the infants after birth or stillbirth. As noted above, not all mothers were successful in pleading concealment- the cases of Phoebe Veitch and Sarah-Jane and Anna Flannagan stand out as exceptions to this general rule, although the defense was usually effective when it came to mitigated imprisonment or even acquittal, in some circumstances. Throughout the British Empire in the 1890s, concern arose over the negligent standards of \"care\" offered by baby farmers. Minnie Dean and others may have been viewed as equivalents to John and Sarah Makin and Frances Lydia Alice Knorr in adjacent New South Wales in Australia, or Amelia Dyer in the United Kingdom, who were her historical contemporaries. Such trials also built up a volume of relevant case law within imperial jurisdictions.\n\nIn 1869, Annie Bates had been domestic servant for a Greymouth merchant and his family on the South Island's West Coast. Her employer, William Coates, spotted the body of a newborn infant in the lavatory, with the subsequent revelation of the decomposed body of a female infant. Bates confessed to the apparent concealment of the infant when she was apprehended, but held that it had been stillborn when she gave birth alongside the Grey River adjacent to the town. Mary Ann Swift, a dancer at the Greenstone Pub, argued that had not been the case when she appeared as witness for the prosecution in this case, but her opinion was dismissed. She was found not guilty of either murder, manslaughter or concealment by the subsequent jury when the case came to trial.\n\nIn the case of Mary Ann Spendlove, concealment was judged to have occurred and she was acquitted of murder in 1871, and subsequently sentenced to two years imprisonment on the lesser charge. Spendlove had cast her baby's body adrift in Nelson Harbour in 1866. The infant had been conceived during an extramarital affair while her husband was absent. She claimed that the infant was premature, but medical examination demonstrated that it was, in fact, a fully developed infant, had been born alive and died of suffocation. Alison Clark argues that one of the reasons that she was not treated as leniently as some of the other women cited in this section was that as a married woman, Spendlove \"should have known better.\"\n\nFrom Galway in Ireland, Bridget Gee (1845-?) was initially described as a \"good industrious girl and of a kind disposition\" by her employer, Mrs Elizabeth Aikman, while employed as a maidservant at Dunedin's Glasgow Hotel. However, in June 1871, she gave birth and then concealed the body of her newborn infant beneath her mattress. Although she claimed that the death of the infant was accidental, the infant had suffered concussion to the head, fractures and lost blood through laceration, possibly caused by scissors or a stay. Although Gee was not found guilty of manslaughter or murder, she was found guilty of concealment. Her lawyer, Robert Stout, claimed that the injuries to the dead infant were likely to have been accidental, and the Crown Prosecutor, Bryan Haggit, concurred. Gee was suspected of brutally killing her child and was not acquitted of concealment, however.\n\nSimilarly, Margaret Collins (1854-?) was illiterate and had no family available in New Zealand to assist her covert pregnancy and childbirth, thus leading to her slashing her newborn baby's throat and hiding the body under her mattress in Milton in 1875. However, she was found guilty of manslaughter, given the nature of her infant's fatal injuries, although only sentenced to two months imprisonment.\n\nIn 1884, Auckland mother Rosina Smith initially fostered out her newborn infant, but then absconded with the two-month-old baby, before burying him in a market garden in Parnell, an Auckland suburb. The presiding judge in that case, Chief Justice James Prendergast, suggested three options to the jurors- they could either find Smith guilty of murder, manslaughter or insanity. The jury found the latter verdict was the case, although this was an unusual outcome, as courts usually did not find that mothers were mentally ill when they killed their newborn babies in this context However, at least three other women may have had diagnosable mental health concerns by current medical standards, given Clarke's assessment of newspaper accounts and court documents.\n\nIn 1878, Margaret Wilson gave birth to a daughter at Timaru's Benevolent Society, an emergency housing facility for indigent women, their infants and children, but the baby only survived for three months before it was strangled. When Wilson appeared before the New Zealand Supreme Court, it was apparent that she was unfit to face charges of murder in the context of her daughter's death. She was admitted to the Sunnyside Hospital in Christchurch and custodial staff testified that she was unable to comprehend what was said to her, was violent and had to be restrained.\n\nFanny Bonnington (1868-?) was a Blenheim domestic servant who gave birth at sixteen in secret in 1884, and threw the dead body of her infant down an ablutionary facility. Postmortem medical investigation revealed that it had been alive at its birth and had several stab wounds, although death might also have occurred from haemorrhaging from an umbilical cord in this situation. Doctor Thomas Porter noted that Bonnington appeared to be experiencing what might be defined today as post-partum depression, as had one of the defendant's sisters after her pregnancy and childbirth. Her grandfather also experienced what might be diagnosed as Alzheimer's disease in contemporary medical practise. Bonnington was found not guilty of concealment through reason of insanity at the time of birth and although held for three months doing kitchen work at the Wellington Lunatic Asylum, she was subsequently released and returned to Blenheim. Justice William Richmond commented that in such instances, judges and juries were often swayed by the 'seduction narrative' and held the man who had impregnated such women more culpable than the \"abandoned\" and isolated single women who gave often traumatic birth without the attendance of family or doctors in the new colony, so they would not convict a young woman of infanticide, murder or manslaughter in this context.\n\nMargaret Heads/Edwards was servant to a Dunedin bank clerk and his family. In 1889, while boarding with a labourer's wife, this young woman gave birth and concealed the body of the infant in that woman's wardrobe. It was unclear whether the infant had been born alive or not in this instance and she was acquitted of concealment of birth. She had been \"seduced\" and then had been left indigent. As with Bonnington's case, a \"Tuapeka Times\" journalist referred to Heads/Edward's 'seduction\" and argued that the man who had abandoned her was \"truly\" responsible for this tragedy.\n\nSometimes, however, the balance of evidence pointed otherwise. In 1881, Dunedin coroner Thomas Morland Hocken advised against keeping an infant in bed with its parents, as there could be problems with respiratory distress if the sleeping parents rolled over and inadvertently suffocated the baby in question. However, in the case of Mary Ann Weston, there were grounds to suspect that the death of the infant may have been deliberate, as Dunedin's Industrial School orphanage had taken her two earlier children into custodial care, and Weston was drinking heavily. The coronial inquest jury found Weston had a manslaughter case to answer, but Weston was later acquitted of manslaughter in the Dunedin Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1895, Edward Tregear, a civil servant and local intellectual, suggested to Wellington's \"Evening Post\" newspaper that New Zealand society was responsible for the spate of infanticides in recent years of colonial history. He was referring to the contemporary case of Mary Davis (1889), in which that Wellington domestic servant had given birth secretly, and as with Margaret Heads/Edwards had concealed the baby's body in her wardrobe. Davis had tied but not cut the infant's umbilical cord, and was acquitted of both murder and concealment of birth in the local Magistrate's Court. Tregear advocated for parenting education in this context\n\n\n"}
{"id": "191902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191902", "title": "Kerosene lamp", "text": "Kerosene lamp\n\nA kerosene lamp (also known as a paraffin lamp in some countries) is a type of lighting device that uses kerosene (paraffin) as a fuel. Invented by the Polish pharmacist Ignacy Łukasiewicz in 1853, kerosene lamps have a wick or mantle as light source, protected by a glass chimney or globe; lamps may be used on a table, or hand-held lanterns may be used for portable lighting. Like oil lamps, they are useful for lighting without electricity, such as in regions without rural electrification, in electrified areas during power outages, at campsites, and on boats. There are three types of kerosene lamp: flat-wick, central-draught (tubular round wick), and mantle lamp. Kerosene lanterns meant for portable use have a flat wick and are made in dead-flame, hot-blast, and cold-blast variants.\n\nPressurized kerosene lamps have a gas generator and gas mantle; these are known as Petromax, Tilley lamps, or Coleman lamps, among other manufacturers. They produce more light per unit of fuel than wick-type lamps, but are more complex and expensive in construction and more complex to operate. A hand-pump pressurizes air, which forces liquid fuel from a reservoir into a gas generator. Vapor from the gas generator burns, heating a mantle to incandescence and also providing heat to the gas generator.\n\nThe first description of a simple lamp using crude mineral oil was provided by Persian alchemist al-Razi (Rhazes) in 9th century Baghdad, who referred to it as the \"naffatah\" in his \"Kitab al-Asrar\" (\"Book of Secrets\"). In 1846 Abraham Pineo Gesner invented a substitute for whale oil for lighting, distilled from coal. Later made from petroleum, kerosene became a popular lighting fuel. Modern and most popular versions of the kerosene lamp were later constructed by Polish inventor and pharmacist Ignacy Łukasiewicz. \n\nKerosene lamps are widely used for lighting in rural areas of Africa and Asia, where electricity is not distributed or is too costly. Kerosene lamps consume an estimated 77 billion litres of fuel per year, equivalent to 1.3 million barrels of oil per day, comparable to annual U.S. jet-fuel consumption of 76 billion litres per year.\n\nA flat-wick lamp is a simple type of kerosene lamp, which burns kerosene drawn up through a wick by capillary action. If this type of lamp is broken, it can easily start a fire. A flat-wick lamp has a fuel tank (fount), with the lamp burner attached. Attached to the fuel tank, four prongs hold the glass chimney, which acts to prevent the flame from being blown out and enhances a thermally induced draft. The glass chimney needs a \"throat\", or slight constriction, to create the proper draft for complete combustion of the fuel; the draft carries more air (oxygen) past the flame, helping to produce a smokeless light, which is brighter than an open flame would produce.\n\nThe lamp burner has a flat wick, usually made of cotton. The lower part of the wick dips into the fount and absorbs the kerosene; the top part of the wick extends out of the wick tube of the lamp burner, which includes a wick-adjustment mechanism. Adjusting how much of the wick extends above the wick tube controls the flame. The wick tube surrounds the wick and ensures that the correct amount of air reaches the lamp burner. Adjustment is usually done by means of a small knob operating a cric, which is a toothed metal sprocket bearing against the wick. If the wick is too high, and extends beyond the burner cone at the top of the wick tube, the lamp will produce smoke and soot (unburned carbon). When the lamp is lit, the kerosene that the wick has absorbed burns and produces a clear, bright, yellow flame. As the kerosene burns, capillary action in the wick draws more kerosene up from the fuel tank. All kerosene flat-wick lamps use the dead-flame burner design, where the flame is fed cold air from below, and hot air exits above.\n\nThis type of lamp was very widely used by railways, both on the front and rear of trains and for hand signals, due to its reliability. At a time when there were few competing light sources at night outside major towns, the limited brightness of these lamps was adequate and could be seen at sufficient distance to serve as a warning or signal.\n\nA central-draught lamp, or Argand lamp, works in the same manner as the flat-wick lamp. The burner is equipped with a tall glass chimney, of around tall or taller, to provide the powerful draft this lamp requires to burn properly. The burner uses a wick, usually made of cotton, that is made of a wide, flat wick rolled into a tube, the seam of which is then stitched together to form the complete wick. The tubular wick is then mounted into a \"carrier\", which is some form of a toothed rack that engages into the gears of the wick-raising mechanism of the burner and allows the wick to be raised and lowered. The wick rides in between the inner and outer wick tubes; the inner wick tube (central draft tube) provides the \"central draft\" or draft that supplies air to the flame spreader. When the lamp is lit, the central draft tube supplies air to the flame spreader that spreads out the flame into a ring of fire and allows the lamp to burn cleanly.\n\nA variation on the \"central-draught\" lamp is the mantle lamp. The mantle is a roughly pear-shaped mesh made of fabric placed over the burner. The mantle typically contains thorium or other rare-earth salts; on first use the cloth burns away, and the rare-earth salts are converted to oxides, leaving a very fragile structure, which incandesces (glows brightly) upon exposure to the heat of the burner flame. Mantle lamps are considerably brighter than flat- or round-wick lamps, produce a whiter light and generate more heat. Mantle lamps typically use fuel faster than a flat-wick lamp, but slower than a center-draught round-wick, as they depend on a small flame heating a mantle, rather than having all the light coming from the flame itself.\n\nMantle lamps are nearly always bright enough to benefit from a lampshade, and a few mantle lamps may be enough to heat a small building in cold weather. Mantle lamps, because of the higher temperature at which they operate, do not produce much odor, except when first lit or extinguished. Like flat- and round-wick lamps, they can be adjusted for brightness; however, caution must be used, because if set too high, the lamp chimney and the mantle can become covered with black areas of soot. A lamp set too high will burn off its soot harmlessly if quickly turned down, but if not caught soon enough, the soot itself can ignite, and a \"runaway lamp\" condition can result.\n\nOne popular model of mantle lamp uses only a wick and is unpressurized.\n\nPressurized mantle lamps contain a gas generator and require preheating the generator before lighting. An air pump is used to deliver fuel under pressure to the gas generator.\n\nLarge fixed pressurized kerosene mantle lamps were used in lighthouse beacons for navigation of ships, brighter and with lower fuel consumption than oil lamps used before.\n\nA kerosene lantern, also known as a \"barn lantern\" or \"hurricane lantern\", is a flat-wick lamp made for portable and outdoor use. They are made of soldered or crimped-together sheet-metal stampings, with tin-plated sheet steel being the most common material, followed by brass and copper. There are three types: dead-flame, hot-blast, and cold-blast. Both hot-blast and cold-blast designs are called tubular lanterns and are safer than dead-flame lamps, as tipping over a tubular lantern cuts off the oxygen flow to the burner and will extinguish the flame within seconds.\n\nThe earliest portable kerosene \"glass globe\" lanterns, of the 1850s and 1860s, were of the dead-flame type, meaning that it had an open wick, but the airflow to the flame was strictly controlled in an upward motion by a combination of vents at the bottom of the burner and an open topped chimney. This had the effect of removing side-to-side drafts and thus significantly reducing or even eliminating the flickering that can occur with an exposed flame.\n\nLater lanterns, such as the hot-blast and cold-blast lanterns, took this airflow control even further by partially enclosing the wick in a \"deflector\" or \"burner cone\" and channeling the airflow through that restricted area, creating a brighter and even more stable flame.\n\nThe hot-blast design, also known as a \"tubular lantern\" due to the metal tubes used in its construction, was invented by John Irwin and patented on January 12, 1868. The hot-blast design collected hot air from above the globe and fed it through metal side tubes to the burner, to make the flame burn brighter.\n\nThe cold-blast design is similar to the hot-blast, except that cold fresh air is drawn in from around the top of the globe and is then fed though the metal side tubes to the flame, making it burn brighter. This design produces a brighter light than the hot-blast design, because the fresh air that is fed to the flame has plenty of oxygen to support the combustion process.\n\nGeneric lamp oil is available clear or in a choice of several colors and in scented and unscented forms. Although more expensive, lamp oil is highly refined and burns more cleanly and with less odor than kerosene. \"Lamp oil\" must not be liquid paraffin. \"Water-clear\" K-1 kerosene is the next grade of preferred fuel for kerosene wick lamps. In some locations \"red kerosene\" is sold, which is dyed red and is slightly less expensive than K-1 kerosene, as no motor-fuel taxes are collected on it. Red kerosene is not recommended because the dye will gradually clog the lantern wick, causing odor and reduced performance. \"Klean-Heat\" brand is another highly refined, cleaner-burning, nicer-smelling kerosene substitute sold at many hardware stores during winter. Citronella-scented lamp oil containing lemongrass oil is sold for its insect repellent properties. Citronella fuels should only be used outdoors. Liquid paraffin-based \"lamp oil\" should only be used in round-wick lamps with a wick diameter of less than . Used in larger wicks, this fuel causes the wicks to clog.\n\nFlat-wick kerosene lamps should only be operated with kerosene, lamp oil or Klean-Heat, but alternative fuels can be used in an emergency. Such fuels may produce additional smoke and odor and may not be usable indoors. Tractor vaporizing oil is made from kerosene with some additive to make a motor fuel for tractors. No. 1 diesel fuel (also called winter diesel) is about the same as kerosene but with the additives to make it a motor fuel. Jet A jet-engine fuel is essentially kerosene with a few additives. RP-1 (Rocket Propellant-1) is a highly refined form of kerosene outwardly similar to jet fuel, used as rocket fuel.\n\nRound-wick center-draft lamps must only burn either Klean-Heat or low-odor mineral spirits.\n\nAny liquid with a low flash point presents a high risk of fire or explosion if used in a kerosene wick lamp. Such liquids are dangerous and should not be used in a kerosene lamp or lantern. Examples include:\n\nContamination of lamp fuel with even a small amount of gasoline results in a lower flash point and higher vapor pressure for the fuel, with potentially dangerous consequences. Vapors from spilled fuel may ignite; vapor trapped above liquid fuel may lead to excess pressure and fires. Kerosene lamps are still extensively used in areas without electrical lighting; the cost and dangers of combustion lighting are a continuing concern in many countries.\n\nFlat-wick lamps have the lowest light output, center-draft round-wick lamps have 3–4 times the output of flat-wick lamps, and pressurized lamps have higher output yet; the range is from 8 to 100 lumens. A kerosene lamp producing 37 lumens for 4 hours per day consumes about 3 litres of kerosene per month.\n\n12.57 lumens = 1 CP\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21359163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21359163", "title": "Kolpos", "text": "Kolpos\n\nThe kolpos (Greek: κόλποις κόλπον κόλπῳ, a gulf, bay or creek) is the \"blousing\" of a peplos, chiton or tunic in Ancient Greek clothing, whereby excess length of the material hangs folded over a zone (a narrow girdle).\n\nThe fabric of the garment was typically cut longer than the shoulder-to-floor measurement of the women or man wearing it. The excess length was dealt with at the waist (creating the kolpos) and optionally the top edge (creating the apoptygma). To create the kolpos, a zone was tied around the body below the breast (high-girdled) or at the waist (low-girdled) and excess fabric was pulled up over it. The fabric fell over the girdle so as to hide it, and was often pulled longer in back than in front. This fold was the kolpos. A second (visible) zone could be tied over the kolpos to redefine the waist, high or low. This might be hidden again by the apoptygma, the loose, folded down top of the peplos.\n\n"}
{"id": "780393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780393", "title": "LaVeyan Satanism", "text": "LaVeyan Satanism\n\nLaVeyan Satanism is a religion founded in 1966 by the American occultist and author Anton Szandor LaVey. Scholars of religion have classified it as a new religious movement and a form of Western esotericism. It is one of several different movements that describe themselves as forms of Satanism.\n\nLaVey established LaVeyan Satanism in the U.S. state of California through the founding of his Church of Satan on Walpurgisnacht of 1966, which he proclaimed to be \"the Year One\", \"Anno Satanas\"—the first year of the \"Age of Satan\". His ideas were heavily influenced by the ideas and writings of Friedrich Nietzsche and Ayn Rand. The church grew under LaVey's leadership, with regional \"grottos\" being founded across the United States. A number of these seceded from the church to form independent Satanic organizations during the early 1970s. In 1975, LaVey abolished the grotto system, after which Satanism became a far less organized movement, although remained greatly influenced by LaVey's writings. In coming years, members of the church left it to establish their own organisations, also following LaVeyan Satanism, among them John Dewey Allee's First Church of Satan and Karla LaVey's First Satanic Church.\n\nThe religion's doctrines are codified in LaVey's book, \"The Satanic Bible\". The religion is materialist, rejecting the existence of supernatural beings, body-soul dualism, and life after death. Practitioners do not believe that Satan literally exists and do not worship him. Instead, Satan is viewed as a positive archetype representing pride, carnality, and enlightenment. He is also embraced as a symbol of defiance against Abrahamic religions which LaVeyans criticize for suppressing humanity's natural instincts and encouraging irrationality. The religion propagates a naturalistic worldview, seeing mankind as animals existing in an amoral universe. It promotes a philosophy based on individualism and egoism, coupled with Social Darwinism and anti-egalitarianism. \n\nLaVeyan Satanism involves the practice of magic, which encompasses two distinct forms; greater and lesser magic. Greater magic is a form of ritual practice and is meant as psychodramatic catharsis to focus one's emotional energy for a specific purpose. These rites are based on three major psycho-emotive themes, including \"compassion\" (love), \"destruction\" (hate), and \"sex\" (lust). Lesser magic is the practice of manipulation by means of applied psychology and glamour (or \"wile and guile\") to bend an individual or situation to one's will.\n\nLaVeyan Satanism – which is also sometimes termed \"Modern Satanism\" and \"Rational Satanism\" – is classified by scholars of religious studies as a new religious movement. When used, \"Rational Satanism\" is often employed to distinguish the approach of the LaVeyan Satanists from the \"Esoteric Satanism\" embraced by groups like the Temple of Set. A number of religious studies scholars have also described it as a form of \"self-religion\" or \"self-spirituality\", with religious studies scholar Amina Olander Lap arguing that it should be seen as being both part of the \"prosperity wing\" of the self-spirituality New Age movement and a form of the Human Potential Movement. Conversely, the scholar of Satanism Jesper Aa. Petersen preferred to treat modern Satanism as a \"cousin\" of the New Age and Human Potential movements.\n\nThe anthropologist Jean La Fontaine described LaVeyan Satanism as having \"both elitist and anarchist elements\", also citing one occult bookshop owner who referred to the church's approach as \"anarchistic hedonism\". In their study of Satanism, the religious studies scholars Asbjørn Dyrendal, James R. Lewis, and Jesper Aa. Petersen suggested that LaVey viewed his religion as \"an antinomian self-religion for productive misfits, with a cynically carnivalesque take on life, and no supernaturalism\". The sociologist of religion James R. Lewis even described LaVeyan Satanism as \"a blend of Epicureanism and Ayn Rand's philosophy, flavored with a pinch of ritual magic.\" The historian of religion Mattias Gardell described LaVey's as \"a rational ideology of egoistic hedonism and self-preservation\", while Nevill Drury characterised LaVeyan Satanism as \"a religion of self-indulgence\". It has also been described as an \"institutionalism of Machiavellian self-interest\".\n\nThe Church of Satan rejects the legitimacy of any other organizations who claim to be Satanists, dubbing them \"Devil worshipers\". Prominent Church leader Blanche Barton described Satanism as \"an alignment, a lifestyle\". LaVey and the church espoused the view that \"Satanists are born, not made\"; that they are outsiders by their nature, living as they see fit, who are self-realized in a religion which appeals to the would-be Satanist's nature, leading them to realize they are Satanists through finding a belief system that is in line with their own perspective and lifestyle.\n\n\"The Satanic Bible\" has been in print since 1969 and has been translated into various languages. Lewis argued that although LaVeyan Satanists do not treat \"The Satanic Bible\" as a sacred text in the way many other religious groups treat their holy texts, it nevertheless is \"treated as an authoritative document which effectively \"functions\" as scripture within the Satanic community\". In particular, Lewis highlighted that many Satanists – both members of the Church of Satan and other groups – quote from it either to legitimize their own position or to de-legitimize the positions of others in a debate. Many other Satanist groups and individual Satanists who are not part of the Church of Satan also recognize LaVey's work as influential.\n\nMany Satanists attribute their conversions or discoveries of Satanism to \"The Satanic Bible\", with 20 per cent of respondents to a survey by James Lewis mentioning \"The Satanic Bible\" directly as influencing their conversion. For members of the church, the book is said to serve not only as a compendium of ideas but also to judge the authenticity of someone's claim to be a Satanist. LaVey's writings have been described as \"cornerstones\" within the church and its teachings, and have been supplemented with the writings of its later High Priest, Gilmore, namely his book, \"The Satanic Scriptures\".\n\n\"The Satanic Bible\" has been described as the most important document to influence contemporary Satanism. The book contains the core principles of Satanism, and is considered the foundation of its philosophy and dogma. On their website, the Church of Satan urge anyone seeking to learn about LaVeyan Satanism to read \"The Satanic Bible\", stating that doing so is \"tantamount to understanding at least the basics of Satanism\". Petersen noted that it is \"in many ways \"the\" central text of the Satanic milieu\", with Lap similarly testifying to its dominant position within the wider Satanic movement. David G. Bromley calls it \"iconoclastic\" and \"the best-known and most influential statement of Satanic theology.\" Eugene V. Gallagher says that Satanists use LaVey's writings \"as lenses through which they view themselves, their group, and the cosmos.\" He also states: \"With a clear-eyed appreciation of true human nature, a love of ritual and pageantry, and a flair for mockery, LaVey's \"Satanic Bible\" promulgated a gospel of self-indulgence that, he argued, anyone who dispassionately considered the facts would embrace.\"\n\nLaVey was an atheist, rejecting the existence of all gods. Accordingly, LaVey and his Church do not espouse a belief in Satan as an entity who literally exists, and LaVey did not encourage the worship of Satan as a deity. Instead, the use of Satan as a central figure is intentionally symbolic. LaVey sought to cement his belief system within the secularist world-view that derived from natural science, thus providing him with an atheistic basis with which to criticize Christianity and other supernaturalist beliefs. He legitimized his religion by highlighting what he claimed was its rational nature, contrasting this with what he saw as the supernaturalist irrationality of established religions. He defined Satanism as \"a secular philosophy of rationalism and self-preservation (natural law, animal state), giftwrapping these ideas in religious trappings to add to their appeal.\" In this way, LaVeyan Satanism has been described as an \"antireligious religion\" by van Luijk. LaVey did not believe in any afterlife.\n\nInstead of worshiping the Devil as a real figure, the image of Satan is embraced because of its association with social non-conformity and rebellion against the dominant system. LaVey embraced the iconography of Satan and the label of \"Satanist\" because it shocked people into thinking, and when asked about his religion, stated that \"the reason it's called Satanism is because it's fun, it's accurate and it's productive\". \n\nLaVey also conceptualised Satan as a symbol of the individual's own vitality, thus representing an autonomous power within, and a representation of personal liberty and individualism. Throughout \"The Satanic Bible\", the LaVeyan Satanist's view of god is described as the Satanist's true \"self\"—a projection of his or her own personality—not an external deity. In works like \"The Satanic Bible\", LaVey often uses the terms \"god\" and \"Satan\" interchangeably, viewing both as personifications of human nature.\n\nDespite his professed atheism, some passages of LaVey's writings left room for a literal interpretation of Satan, and some members of his Church understood the Devil as an entity that really existed. It is possible that LaVey left some ambivalence in his writings so as not to drive away those Church members who were theistic Satanists.\nBoth LaVey's writings and the publications of the church continue to refer to Satan as if he were a real being, in doing so seeking to reinforce the Satanist's self-interest.\n\nLaVey used Christianity as a negative mirror for his new faith, with LaVeyan Satanism rejecting the basic principles and theology of Christian belief. It views Christianity – alongside other major religions, and philosophies such as humanism and liberal democracy – as a largely negative force on humanity; LaVeyan Satanists perceive Christianity as a lie which promotes idealism, self-denigration, herd behavior, and irrationality. LaVeyans view their religion as a force for redressing this balance by encouraging materialism, egoism, stratification, carnality, atheism, and social Darwinism. LaVey's Satanism was particularly critical of what it understands as Christianity's denial of humanity's animal nature, and it instead calls for the celebration of, and indulgence in, these desires. In doing so, it places an emphasis on the carnal rather than the spiritual.\n\nLaVeyan Satanism has been characterised as belonging to the political right rather than to the political left. The historian of Satanism Ruben van Luijk characterised it as a form of \"anarchism of the Right\". LaVey was anti-egalitarian and elitist, believing in the fundamental inequality of different human beings. His philosophy was Social Darwinist in basis, having been influenced by the writings of Herbert Spencer, Friedrich Nietzsche, and Ayn Rand. LaVey stated that his Satanism was \"just Ayn Rand's philosophy with ceremony and ritual added\". Characterising LaVey as a Nietzschean, the religious studies scholar Asbjørn Dyrendal nevertheless thought that LaVey's \"personal synthesis seems decidedly his own creation, even though the different ingredients going into it are at times very visible.\" Social Darwinism is particularly noticeable in \"The Book of Satan\", where LaVey uses portions of Redbeard's \"Might Is Right\", though it also appears throughout in references to man's inherent strength and instinct for self-preservation.\n\nFor LaVey, the human being was explicitly viewed as an animal, who thus has no purpose other than survival of the fittest, and who therefore exists in an amoral context. He believed that in adopting a philosophical belief in its own superiority above that of the other animals, humankind has become \"the most vicious animal of all\". For LaVey, non-human animals and children represent an ideal, \"the purest form of carnal existence\", because they have not been indoctrinated with Christian or other religious concepts of guilt and shame. His ethical views focused around placing oneself and one's family before others, minding one's own business, and – for men – behaving like a gentleman. In responding to threats and harm, he promoted a policy of \"lex talionis\", for instance reversing a Biblical Christian teaching by stating that \"if a man smite thee on the one cheek, \"smash\" him on the other.\" \n\nLaVeyan Satanism places great emphasis on the role of liberty and personal freedom. LaVey believed that the ideal Satanist should be individualistic and non-conformist, rejecting what he called the \"colorless existence\" that mainstream society sought to impose on those living within it. He rejected consumerism and what he called the \"death cult\" of fashion. He praised the human ego for encouraging an individual's pride, self-respect, and self-realization and accordingly believed in satisfying the ego's desires. He expressed the view that self-indulgence was a desirable trait, and that hate and aggression were not wrong or undesirable emotions but that they were necessary and advantageous for survival. Accordingly, he praised the Seven Deadly Sins as virtues which were beneficial for the individual.\n\nSimilarly, LaVey criticized the negative and restrictive attitude to sexuality present in many religions, instead supporting any sexual acts that take place between consenting adults. His Church welcomed homosexual members from its earliest years, and he also endorsed celibacy for those who were asexual. He sought to discourage negative feelings of guilt arising from sexual acts such as masturbation and fetishes, and believed that rejecting these sexual inhibitions and guilt would result in a happier and healthier society. Discussing women, LaVey argued that they should use sex as a tool to manipulate men, in order to advance their own personal power. Conversely, non-consensual sexual relations, such as rape and child molestation, were denounced by LaVey and his Church.\n\nLaVey believed in the imminent demise of Christianity. In addition, he believed that society would enter an Age of Satan, in which a generation living in accordance with LaVeyan principles would come to power.\nLaVey supported eugenics and expected it to become a necessity in the future, when it would be used to breed an elite who reflected LaVey's \"Satanic\" principles. In his view, this elite would be \"superior people\" who displayed the \"Satanic\" qualities of creativity and nonconformity. He regarded these traits as capable of hereditary transmission, and made the claim that \"Satanists are born, not made\". He believed that the elite should be siphoned off from the rest of the human \"herd\", with the latter being forced into ghettoes, ideally \"space ghettoes\" located on other planets.\nThe anthropologist Jean La Fontaine highlighted an article that appeared in a LaVeyan magazine, \"The Black Flame\", in which one writer described \"a true Satanic society\" as one in which the population consists of \"free-spirited, well-armed, fully-conscious, self-disciplined individuals, who will neither need nor tolerate any external entity 'protecting' them or telling them what they can and cannot do.\" This rebellious approach conflicts with LaVey's firm beliefs in observing the rule of law. Although personally neither a fascist nor neo-Nazi, LaVey was on good terms with various neo-Nazi and other right-wing groups operating in the United States.\n\nAlthough LaVey's ideas were largely shaped around a secular and scientific world-view, he also expressed a belief in magic. Rather than characterising magic as a supernatural phenomenon, LaVey expressed the view that it was a part of the natural world thus far undiscovered by scientists. Outlined in \"The Satanic Bible\", LaVey defined magic as \"the change in situations or events in accordance with one's will, which would, using normally accepted methods, be unchangeable\", a definition that reflects the influence of the British occultist Aleister Crowley. Although he never explained exactly how he believed that this magical process worked, LaVey stated that magicians could successfully utilise this magical force through intensely imagining their desired goal and thus directing the force of their own willpower toward it. He emphasised the idea that magical forces could be manipulated through \"purely emotional\" rather than intellectual acts. \n\nThis practice puts LaVeyan Satanism within a wider tradition of 'high magic' or ceremonial magic, and has also been compared with Christian Science and Scientology. LaVey adopted beliefs and ideas from older magicians but consciously de-Christianised and Satanised them for his own purposes.\nIn presenting himself as applying a scientific perspective on magic, LaVey was likely influenced by Crowley, who had also presented his approach to magic in the same way. However, in contrast to many older ceremonial magicians, LaVey denied that there was any division between black magic and white magic, attributing this dichotomy purely to the \"smug hypocrisy and self-deceit\" of those who called themselves \"white magicians\". He similarly differed from many older magicians who emphasised magic as a practice designed to bring about personal transformation and transcendence; rather, for LaVey magic was employer for material gain, personal influence, to harm enemies, and to gain success in love and sex.\n\nLaVey defined his system of magic as greater and lesser magic. Greater magic is a form of ritual practice and is meant as psychodramatic catharsis to focus one's emotional energy for a specific purpose. These rites are based on three major psycho-emotive themes: \"compassion\" (love), \"destruction\" (hate), and \"sex\" (lust). The space in which a ritual is performed is known as an \"intellectual decompression chamber\", where skepticism and disbelief are willfully suspended, thus allowing the magicians to fully express their mental and emotional needs, holding back nothing regarding their deepest feelings and desires. This magic could then be employed to ensure sexual gratification, material gain, personal success, or to curse one's enemies. LaVey also wrote of \"the balance factor\", insisting that any magical aims should be realistic. These rituals are often considered to be magical acts, with LaVey's Satanism encouraging the practice of magic to aid one's selfish ends. Much of Satanic ritual is designed for an individual to carry out alone; this is because concentration is seen as key to performing magical acts.\n\nLesser magic, also referred to an \"everyday\" or \"situational\" magic, is the practice of manipulation by means of applied psychology. LaVey defined it as \"wile and guile obtained through various devices and contrived situations, which when utilized, can create change in accordance with one's will.\" LaVey wrote that a key concept in lesser magic is the “command to look”, which can be accomplished by utilizing elements of “sex, sentiment, and wonder”, in addition to the utilization of looks, body language, scents, color, patters, and odor. This system encourages a form of manipulative role-play, wherein the practitioner may alter several elements of their physical appearance in order to aid them in seducing or \"bewitching\" on object of desire.\n\nLaVey developed “The Synthesizer Clock”, the purpose of which is to divide humans into distinct groups of people based primarily on body shape and personality traits. The synthesizer is modeled as a clock, and based on concepts of somatotypes. The clock is intended to aid a witch in identifying themselves, subsequently aiding in utilizing the “attraction of opposites” to “spellbind” the witch's object of desire by assuming the opposite role. The successful application of lesser magic is said to be built upon one's understanding of their place on the clock. Upon finding your position on the clock, you are encouraged to adapt it as seen fit, and perfect your type by harmonizing its element for better success. Dyrendal referred to LaVey's techniques as “Erving Goffman meets William Mortensen”. Drawing insights from psychology, biology, and sociology, Petersen noted that lesser magic combines occult and “rejected sciences of body analysis [and] temperaments.”\n\nThe \"central convictions\" of LaVeyan Satanism are formulated into three lists, which are regularly reproduced within the Church of Satan's written material.\n\n\"The Nine Satanic Statements\" are a set of nine assertions made by LaVey in the introductory chapters of \"The Satanic Bible\". They are considered a touchstone of contemporary organized Satanism that constitute, in effect, brief aphorisms that capture Satanic philosophy. The first three statements touch on “indulgence”, “vital existence” and “undefiled wisdom” which presents a positive view of the Satanist as a carnal, physical and pragmatic being, where enjoyment of physical existence and an undiluted view of this-worldly truth are promoted as the core values of Satanism, combining elements of Darwinism and Epicureanism. Statement four, five and six deal in matters of ethics, through “kindness to those who deserve it”, “vengeance” and “responsibility to the responsible”, painting a harsh picture of society and human relations by emphasizing justice rather than love. Statements seven, eight and nine reject the dignity of man, sin and the Christian church. Humans are characterized as “just another animal”, traditional “sins” are promoted as means for gratification, and religion as mere business. The adversarial and antinomian aspect of Satan takes precedence in support of statements four through nine, with non-conformity being presented as a core ideal.\n\n\n\nLaVey emphasized that in his tradition, Satanic rites came in two forms, neither of which were acts of worship; in his terminology, \"rituals\" were intended to bring about change, whereas \"ceremonies\" celebrated a particular occasion. These rituals were often considered to be magical acts, with LaVey's Satanism encouraging the practice of magic to aid one's selfish ends. Much of LaVeyan ritual is designed for an individual to carry out alone; this is because concentration is seen as key to performing magical acts. In \"The Satanic Bible\", LaVey described three types of ritual in his religion: sex rituals designed to attract the desired romantic or sexual partner, compassionate rituals with the intent of helping people (including oneself), and destructive magic which seeks to do harm to others. In designing these rituals, LaVey drew upon a variety of older sources, with scholar of Satanism Per Faxneld noting that LaVey \"assembled rituals from a hodgepodge of historical sources, literary as well as esoteric\".\n\nLaVey described a number of rituals in his book, \"The Satanic Rituals\"; these are \"dramatic performances\" with specific instructions surrounding the clothing to be worn, the music to be used, and the actions to be taken. This attention to detail in the design of the rituals was intentional, with their pageantry and theatricality intending to engage the participants' senses and aesthetic sensibilities at various levels and enhancing the participants' willpower for magical ends. LaVey prescribed that male participants should wear black robes, while older women should wear black, and other women should dress attractively in order to stimulate sexual feelings among many of the men. All participants are instructed to wear amulets of either the upturned pentagram or the image of Baphomet.\n\nAccording to LaVey's instructions, on the altar is to be placed an image of Baphomet. This should be accompanied by various candles, all but one of which are to be black. The lone exception is to be a white candle, used in destructive magic, which is kept to the right of the altar. Also to be included are a bell which is rung nine times at the start and end of the ceremony, a chalice made of anything but gold, and which contains an alcoholic drink symbolizing the \"Elixir of Life\", a sword that represents aggression, a model phallus used as an aspergillum, a gong, and parchment on which requests to Satan are to be written before being burned. Although alcohol was consumed in the church's rites, drunkenness was frowned upon and the taking of illicit drugs was forbidden.\n\nLaVeyan rituals sometimes include anti-Christian blasphemies, which are intended to have a liberating effect on the participants.\nIn some of the rituals, a naked woman serves as the altar; in these cases it is made explicit that the woman's body itself becomes the altar, rather than have her simply lying on an existing altar. In contrast to longstanding stereotypes about Satanists, there is no place for sexual orgies in LaVeyan ritual. Neither animal nor human sacrifice takes place. Children are banned from attending these rituals, with the only exception being the Satanic Baptism, which is specifically designed to involve infants.\n\nLaVey also developed his own Black Mass, which was designed as a form of deconditioning to free the participant from any inhibitions that they developed living in Christian society. He noted that in composing the Black Mass rite, he had drawn upon the work of the French fiction writers Charles Baudelaire and Joris-Karl Huysmans. LaVey openly toyed with the use of literature and popular culture in other rituals and ceremonies, thus appealing to artifice, pageantry, and showmanship. For instance, he published an outline of a ritual which he termed the \"Call to Cthulhu\" which drew upon the stories of the alien god Cthulhu authored by American horror writer H. P. Lovecraft. In this rite, set to take place at night in a secluded location near to a turbulent body of water, a celebrant takes on the role of Cthulhu and appears before the assembled Satanists, signing a pact between them in the language of Lovecraft's fictional \"Old Ones\".\n\nLaVey and the Church of Satan deemed an individual's birthday to be the most important day of the year. Walpurgisnacht (April 30) is celebrated as the date on which LaVey founded his Church. A third annual festival is Halloween, which also has associations with magic and dark entities.\n\nAs a symbol of his Satanic church, LaVey adopted the upturned five-pointed pentagram. The upturned pentagram had previously been used by the French occultist Eliphas Lévi, and had been adopted by his disciple, Stanislas de Guaita, who merged it with a goat's head in his 1897 book, \"Key of Black Magic\". In the literature and imagery predating LaVey, imagery used to represent the \"satanic\" is denoted by inverted crosses and blasphemous parodies of Christian art. The familiar goat's head inside an inverted pentagram did not become the foremost symbol of Satanism until the founding of the Church of Satan in 1966. LaVey learned of this variant of the symbol after it had been reproduced on the front cover of Maurice Bessy's coffee table book, \"Pictorial History of Magic and the Supernatural\". Feeling that this symbol embodied his philosophy, LaVey decided to adopt it for his Church. In its formative years, the church utilized this image on its membership cards, stationary, medallions and most notably above the altar in the ritual chamber of the Black House.\n\nDuring the writing of \"The Satanic Bible\", it was decided that a unique version of the symbol should be rendered to be identified exclusively with the church. LaVey created a new version of Guaita's image, one which was geometrically precise, with two perfect circles surrounding the pentagram, the goat head redrawn, and the Hebrew lettering altered to look more serpentine. LaVey had this design copyrighted to the church, claiming authorship under the pseudonym of \"Hugo Zorilla\". In doing so, the symbol – which came to be known as the Sigil of Baphomet – came to be closely associated with Satanism in the public imagination.\n\nAlthough there were forms of religious Satanism that predated the creation of LaVeyan Satanism—namely those propounded by Stanisław Przybyszewski and Ben Kadosh—these had no unbroken lineage of succession to LaVey's form. For this reason, the sociologist of religion Massimo Introvigne stated that \"with few exceptions, LaVey is at the origins of all contemporary Satanism\". Similarly, the historian Ruben van Luijk claimed that the creation of LaVeyan Satanism marked \"the actual beginning of Satanism as a religion such as it is practiced in the world today\".\n\nAfter he came to public attention, LaVey shielded much of his early life in secrecy, and little is known about it for certain. He had been born in Chicago as Howard Stanton Levey in either March or April 1930. He was of mixed Ukrainian, Russian, and German ancestry. He claimed to have worked in the circus and carnival in the years following the Second World War, and in later years, he also alleged that he worked at the San Francisco Orchestra, although this never existed. He also claimed to have had a relationship with a young Marilyn Monroe, although this too was untrue. \n\nBy the 1960s he was living at 6114 California Street in San Francisco, a house that he had inherited from his parents. He took an interest in occultism and amassed a large collection of books on the subject. At some point between 1957 and 1960 he began hosting classes at his house every Friday in which lectures on occultism and other subjects were given. Among the topics covered were freaks, extra-sensory perception, Spiritualism, cannibalism, and historical methods of torture. An informal group established around these lectures, which came to be known as the Magic Circle. Among those affiliated with this gathering were the filmmaker and Thelemite occultist Kenneth Anger, and the anthropologist Michael Harner, who later established the core shamanism movement.\n\nLaVey likely began preparations for the formation of his Church of Satan in either 1965 or early 1966, and it was officially founded on Walpurgisnacht 1966. He then declared that 1966 marked Year One of the new Satanic era. It was the first organized church in modern times to be devoted to the figure of Satan, and according to Faxneld and Petersen, the church represented \"the first public, highly visible, and long-lasting organisation which propounded a coherent satanic discourse\". Its early members were the attendees of LaVey's Magic Circle, although it soon began attracting new recruits. Many of these individuals were sadomasochists or homosexuals, attracted by the LaVeyan openness to different sexual practices. LaVey had painted his house black, with it becoming known as \"the Black House\", and it was here that weekly rituals were held every Friday night. \n\nLaVey played up to his Satanic associations by growing a pointed beard and wearing a black cloak and inverted pentagram. He added to his eccentric persona by obtaining unusual pets, including a lion that was kept caged in his back garden. Describing himself as the \"High Priest of Satan\", LaVey defined his position within the church as \"monarchical in nature, papal in degree and absolute in power\". He led the churches' governing Council of Nine, and implemented a system of five initiatory levels that the LaVeyan Satanist could advance through by demonstrating their knowledge of LaVeyan philosophy and their personal accomplishments in life. These were known as Apprentice Satanist I°, Witch or Warlock II°, Priest or Priestess of Mendes III°, Magister IV°, and Magus V°. \n\nThe church experienced its \"golden age\" from 1966 to 1972, when it had a strong media presence. In February 1967, LaVey held a much publicized Satanic wedding, which was followed by the Satanic baptism of his daughter Zeena in May, and then a Satanic funeral in December. Another publicity-attracting event was the \"Topless Witch Revue\", a nightclub show held on San Francisco's North Beach; the use of topless women to attract attention alienated a number of the church's early members. Through these and other activities, he soon attracted international media attention, being dubbed \"the Black Pope\". He also attracted a number of celebrities to join his Church, most notably Sammy Davis Junior and Jayne Mansfield. LaVey also established branches of the church, known as \"grottos\", in various parts of the United States. He may have chosen the term \"grotto\" over \"coven\" because the latter term had come to be used by practitioners of the modern Pagan religion of Wicca. These included the Babylon Grotto in Detroit, the Stygian Grotto in Dayton, and the Lilith Grotto in New York City. In 1971, a Dutch follower of LaVey's, Maarten Lamers, established his own Kerk van Satan grotto in Amsterdam.\n\nAs a result of the success of the film \"Rosemary's Baby\" and the concomitant growth of interest in Satanism, an editor at Avon Books, Peter Mayer, approached LaVey and commissioned him to write a book, which became \"The Satanic Bible\". While part of the text was LaVey's original writing, other sections of the book consisted of direct quotations from Arthur Desmond's right-wing tract \"Might is Right\" and the occultist Aleister Crowley's version of John Dee's \"Enochian Keys\". There is evidence that LaVey was inspired by the writings of the American philosopher Ayn Rand; and while accusations that he plagiarized her work in \"The Satanic Bible\" have been denied by one author, Chris Mathews stated that \"LaVey stole selectively and edited lightly\" and that his \"Satanism at times closely parallels Ayn Rand's Objectivist philosophy.\" The book \"The Satanic Bible\" served to present LaVey's ideas to a far wider audience than they had previously had. In 1972, he published a sequel, \"The Satanic Rituals\". \n\nLaVey's Church emerged at a point in American history when Christianity was on the decline as many of the nation's youth broke away from their parental faith and explored alternative systems of religiosity. The milieu in which LaVey's Church was operating was dominated by the counterculture of the 1960s; his Church reflected some of its concerns – free love, alternative religions, freedom from church and state – but ran contrary to some of the counterculture's other main themes, such as peace and love, compassion, and the use of mind-altering drugs. He expressed condemnation of the hippies; in one ritual he hung an image of Timothy Leary upside down while stamping on a tablet of LSD.\n\nLaVey ceased conducting group rituals and workshops in his home in 1972.\nIn 1973, church leaders in Michigan, Ohio, and Florida split to form their own Church of Satanic Brotherhood, however this disbanded in 1974 when one of its founders publicly converted to Christianity. Subsequently, Church members based in Kentucky and Indiana left to found the Ordo Templi Satanis. In 1975, LaVey disbanded all grottos, leaving the organisation as a membership-based group that existed largely on paper. He claimed that this had been necessary because the grottos had come to be dominated by social misfits who had not benefitted the church as a whole. In a private letter, he expressed frustration that despite growing church membership, \"brain surgeons and Congressmen are still in short supply\". He also announced that thenceforth all higher degrees in the church would be awarded in exchange for contributions of cash, real estate, or valuable art. Dissatisfied with these actions, in 1975, the high-ranking Church member Michael Aquino left to found his own Satanic organisation, the Temple of Set, which differed from LaVey's Church by adopting a belief that Satan literally existed. According to Lap, from this point on Satanism became a \"splintered and disorganized movement\".\n\nBetween the abolition of the grotto system in 1975 and the establishment of the internet in the mid-1990s, \"The Satanic Bible\" remained the primary means of propagating Satanism. During this period, a decentralized, anarchistic movement of Satanists developed that was shaped by many of the central themes that had pervaded LaVey's thought and which was expressed in \"The Satanic Bible\". Lewis argued that in this community, \"The Satanic Bible\" served as a \"quasi-scripture\" because these independent Satanists were able to adopt certain ideas from the book while merging them with ideas and practices drawn from elsewhere.\n\nDuring the late 1980s, LaVey returned to the limelight, giving media interviews, attracting further celebrities, and reinstating the grotto system. In 1984 he separated from his wife, Diane Hegarty, and began a relationship with Blanche Barton, who was his personal assistant. In 1988 Hegarty brought a court case against LaVey, claiming that he she owned half of the church and LaVey's Black House. The court found in Hegarty's favour, after which LaVey immediately declared bankruptcy. In May 1992, the ex-couple reached a settlement. The Black House was sold to a wealthy friend, the property developer Donald Werby, who agreed to allow LaVey to continue living at the residence for free. Also in 1992, LaVey published his first book in twenty years, \"The Devil's Notebook\". This was followed by the posthumous \"Satan Speaks\" in 1998, which included a foreword from the rock singer Marilyn Manson, who was a priest in the church.\n\nIn his final years, LaVey suffered from a heart condition, displayed increasing paranoia, and died in October 1997. In November, the church announced that it would subsequently be run by two High Priestesses of joint rank, Barton and LaVey's daughter Karla LaVey. That same year, the church established an official website. Barton attempted to purchase the Black House from Werby, but was unable to raise sufficient funds; the building had fallen into disrepair and was demolished in 2001, subsequently being replaced with an apartment block. A disagreement subsequently emerged between Barton and Karla, resulting in an agreement that Barton would retain legal ownership of the name and organization of the church while LaVey's personal belongings and copyrights would be distributed among his three children, Karla, Zeena, and Satan Xerxes. Barton stood down as High Priestess in 2002, although continued to chair the church's Council of Nine. The headquarters of the church were then moved from San Francisco to New York, where Peter H. Gilmore was appointed the church's High Priest, and his wife Peggy Nadramia as its High Priestess.\n\nAfter LaVey's death, conflict over the nature of Satanism intensified within the Satanic community. At Halloween 1999 Karla established the First Satanic Church, which uses its website to promote the idea that it represents a direct continuation of the original Church of Satan as founded by Anton LaVey. Other LaVeyan groups appeared elsewhere in the United States. An early member of the Church of Satan, John Dewey Allee, established his own First Church of Satan, claiming allegiance to LaVey's original teachings and professing that LaVey himself had deviated from them in later life. In 1986, Paul Douglas Valentine founded the New York City-based World Church of Satanic Liberation, having recruited many of its members through Herman Slater's Magickal Childe esoteric store. Its membership remained small and it was discontinued in 2011. In 1991, the Embassy of Lucifer was established by the Canadian Tsirk Susuej, which was influenced by LaVeyan teachings but held that Satan was a real entity. Splinter groups from Susuej's organisation included the Embassy of Satan in Stewart, British Columbia, and the Luciferian Light Group in Baltimore. \n\nLaVeyan groups also cropped up elsewhere in the world, with a particular concentration in Scandinavia; most of these Scandinavian groups either split from the Church of Satan or never affiliated with it. These included the Svenska Satanistkyrkan and the Det Norske Sataniske Samfunn, as well as the Prometheus Grotten of the Church of Satan which was established in Denmark in 1997 but which officially seceded in 2000. A Satanic Church was also established in Estonia based on the LaVeyan model; it later renamed itself the Order of the Black Widow.\n\nThe Church of Satan became increasingly doctrinally-rigid and focused on maintaining the purity of LaVeyan Satanism. The church's increased emphasis on their role as the bearer of LaVey's legacy was partly a response to the growth in non-LaVeyan Satanists. Some Church members – including Gilmore – claimed that only they were the \"real\" Satanists and that those belonging to different Satanic traditions were \"pseudo\" Satanists. After examining many of these claims on the church's website, Lewis concluded that it was \"\"obsessed\" with shoring up its own legitimacy by attacking the heretics, especially those who criticize LaVey\". Meanwhile, the church experienced an exodus of its membership in the 2000s, with many of these individuals establishing new groups online. Although the church's public face had performed little ceremonial activity since the early 1970s, in June 2006 they held a Satanic 'High Mass' in Los Angeles to mark the church's fortieth birthday.\n\nMembership levels of the Church of Satan are hard to determine, as the organisation has not released such information. During its early years, the church claimed a membership of around 10,000, although defectors subsequently claimed that the number was only in the hundreds. Membership was largely, although not exclusively, white. LaVey recognised this, suggesting that the church appealed particularly to white Americans because they lacked the strong sense of ethnic identity displayed by African-Americans and Hispanic Americans. The historian of religion Massimo Introvigne suggested that it had never had more than 1000 or 2000 members at its height, but that LaVeyan ideas had had a far greater influence through LaVey's books. Membership is gained by paying $225 and filling out a registration statement, and thus initiates are bestowed with lifetime memberships and not charged annual fees.\n\nLa Fontaine thought it likely that the easy availability of LaVey's writings would have encouraged the creation of various Satanic groups that were independent of the Church of Satan itself. In \"The Black Flame\", a number of groups affiliated with the church have been mentioned, most of which are based in the United States and Canada although two groups were cited as having existed in New Zealand. In his 2001 examination of Satanists, the sociologist James R. Lewis noted that, to his surprise, his findings \"consistently pointed to the centrality of LaVey's influence on modern Satanism\". \"Reflecting the dominant influence of Anton LaVey's thought\", Lewis noted that the majority of those whom he examined were atheists or agnostics, with 60% of respondents viewing Satanism as a symbol rather than a real entity. 20% of his respondents described \"The Satanic Bible\" as the most important factor that attracted them to Satanism. Elsewhere, Lewis noted that few Satanists who weren't members of the Church of Satan would regard themselves as \"orthodox LaVeyans\".\nExamining the number of LaVeyan Satanists in Britain, in 1995 the religious studies scholar Graham Harvey noted that the Church of Satan had no organized presence in the country. He noted that LaVey's writings were widely accessible in British bookshops, and La Fontaine suggested that there may have been individual Church members within the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53514235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53514235", "title": "Latin lover", "text": "Latin lover\n\nLatin lover is a stereotypical stock character, part of the star system. It appeared for the first time in Hollywood movies of the 1920s and, for the most part, lost popularity during World War II.\n\nThe Latin lover was the first male acting type in the history of filmmaking whose behavior and destiny are set through his love relations with a woman, hence ‘lover’ though, as the type was depicted in the beginning, the term ‘seducer’ would be more suitable. Major characteristics describing the type include:\n\n\nWhen he appeared, the Latin lover was opposed to the absolutely dominant type of male character in Hollywood at the time, a man of action, who represented a fighter for justice, freedom or some other cause. At the same time, the Latin lover was the first distinct non-American type. It was the result of several factors: crisis of faith in the supremacy of a male as a consequence of the horrors of World War I, growing female emancipation but also Hollywood’s effort to conquer the film markets of Europe, whose audience was deemed more refined at the time. Due to the non-American attributes of the type and a fact that a noticeable number of European actors moved their careers to Hollywood, some film historians, like Enno Patalas, prefer the term ‘stranger’ instead of a ‘lover’.\n\nBecause of the American idea what a Latin lover should look like (dark hair, darker complexion), initial representatives of the type were indeed of Latin American or Mediterranean origin. Most popular among the first were Italian-born Rudolph Valentino and Ramon Novarro, born in Mexico. Director George Fitzmaurice, who directed Valentino in several of his movies, was very important for the launching of Latin lover character. Valentino is universally considered as the supreme representative of the type in the film history. Symbol of what lover should be and look like in the 1920s, his enormous popularity was enhanced by the unusual personal life and a fact that he was the first male star whose private life was compared to the characters he played. Building of the Valentino myth was sealed with his premature death at the age of 31. They were followed by other typecast actors like Ricardo Cortez, Antonio Moreno, Gilbert Roland, Rod La Rocque and Adolphe Menjou, the first who brought a certain measure of cynicism to the type.\n\nAs the Latin lovers rapidly gained popularity with the audience, the ‘non-Latin’ characteristics increased, so the variations of the type developed, which made the use of ‘stranger’ instead of ‘lover’ more acceptable. In Great Britain, the originator was Ivor Novello and Ronald Colman added the Englishness, creating the type of an English gentleman. Central European and local German flavors were presented by Erich von Stroheim and Conrad Veidt, respectively, while very popular French exemplar was Ivan Mosjoukine.\n\nWhen it comes to the American actors in the later silent period, almost without any competition from other fellow actors, the type was embodied by John Barrymore and John Gilbert. In the sound period, most popular American actors of the type were William Powell, Fredric March, Melvyn Douglas and commercially extremely successful Robert Taylor and Tyrone Power. ‘French lover cliché’ type was created by Charles Boyer, while popular British actors, prior to the World War II, include Laurence Olivier, Leslie Howard, Robert Donat, David Niven and James Mason. Britons in general added much more realism to the type, while Mason represented a bit of a ‘sadistic’ derivative. Massimo Girotti was Italian version.\n\nThough actors like Douglas Fairbanks and Anthony Quinn are sometimes placed in this category, they actually belonged to the adventurer or the swashbuckler type.\n\nOutbreak of the war made the type look totally obsolete, so after the war ended only rare actors appeared in the type, and even then, only for the short period of their careers: Louis Jourdan and Gérard Philipe in the late 1940s, Tony Curtis and Rossano Brazzi in the 1950s and Omar Sharif in the late 1960s. Marcello Mastroianni did some type acting but also very effectively evoked and parodied it in several roles, while only partially it was represented by Robert Redford, Burt Reynolds, Gérard Depardieu and Michael York in the 1970s. Still, the type survived through the 1980s in the cinema of South America and was revived to some extent in the 1990s with Antonio Banderas.\n\nOther Latin lovers of the world cinema, partially or through their whole careers, include Warner Baxter, Ivan Petrovich, Pierre Blanchard, George Raft, Cesar Romero, Fernando Lamas, Ricardo Montalban, John Gavin, George Hamilton, Jean Paul Belmondo, Alain Delon, Al Pacino, Sylvester Stallone, John Travolta, Andy Garcia, Olivier Martinez and Vincent Perez.\n\nIn time, the term spread to other arts, like the music, with typical representatives being father and son Julio Iglesias and Enrique Iglesias.\n\n"}
{"id": "9758356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9758356", "title": "Latticework", "text": "Latticework\n\nLatticework is an openwork framework consisting of a criss-crossed pattern of strips of building material, typically wood or metal. The design is created by crossing the strips to form a grid or weave. \nLatticework may be functional – for example, to allow airflow to or through an area; structural, as a truss in a lattice girder;\nused to add privacy, as through a lattice screen; purely decorative; or some combination of these. \n\nLatticework in stone or wood from the classical period is also called transenna (plural transenne).\n\nIn India, the house of a rich or noble person may be built with a \"baramdah\" or verandah surrounding every level leading to the living area. The upper floors often have balconies overlooking the street that are shielded by latticed screens carved in stone called jalis which keep the area cool and give privacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "3350615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3350615", "title": "List of Christian dance companies", "text": "List of Christian dance companies\n\nA Christian dance company is a dance company usually specializing in ballet that uses dance as a ministry to reach out to non-Christians, strengthen the faith of Christians, and to bring joy to poor countries or devastated areas.\n\nChristian dance companies perform, and up to the time of the performance usually participate in missionary style work in the area they have traveled to, engaging in activities such as feeding the homeless or building housing in rural areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31350029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31350029", "title": "List of autodidacts", "text": "List of autodidacts\n\nThis is a list of notable autodidacts which includes people who have been partially or wholly self-taught.\n\nBecause of the large increase in years of education since 1800, especially during the early 20th century, it is difficult to define autodidactism and to compare autodidacts during different time periods.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47080322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47080322", "title": "List of generic types of observances", "text": "List of generic types of observances\n\n"}
{"id": "3558308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3558308", "title": "List of host cities of the Eurovision Song Contest", "text": "List of host cities of the Eurovision Song Contest\n\nThis page is a list of cities and venues that have hosted the Eurovision Song Contest, one or more times. Future venues are shown in \"italics\". Since 1958, the host city has customarily been in the winner country of the previous year. There have been exceptions, however, when certain issues have prevented the winner from hosting the following year's contest. Hosting then passed to the country that had come second, or to another country that agreed to host. Such events occurred in 1960, 1963, 1972, 1974 and 1980.\n\nWith 6 contests, Dublin is the city that has hosted the most frequently. It is followed by London and Luxembourg (4 contests each), and Copenhagen and Stockholm (3 contests each).\n\nCroatia is the only country to have hosted the contest, without winning directly.\n\nHost City Insignia is a rotating trophy awarded to cities hosting the Eurovision Song Contest. The symbol is a large key ring to which the Eurovision Song Contest Host Cities can attach their city key or other symbol representing the city. Additionally, there is a fob with a picture of the Helsinki Senate Square attached to the key ring. The idea of the rotating trophy was proposed jointly by the City of Helsinki, the Finnish Broadcasting Company YLE and EBU in connection with the 2007 Eurovision Song Contest. Hand-engraved on the ring are the following texts: \"Eurovision Song Contest Host City\", all Host Cities up until the year 2006 and a stamp: Helsinki 2007 with the initials of the prize designers. The concept and fob were designed by the ANTEEKSI Team and the ring by jewellery designer Taru Tonder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56424657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56424657", "title": "Martial temple", "text": "Martial temple\n\nMartial temples, (), also translated as military temples or warrior temples, are Chinese temples dedicated to worshiping outstanding military leaders and strategists (excluding kings and emperors). They were often built by the governments as the counterpart of civil temples (\"wenmiao\") or Temple of Confucius. Temples that worshiped both civil and military gods are called Wenwu temple (\"wenwumiao\").\n\nMartial temples originated from China in 731 BC, initially for worshiping 11 strategists, among whom Jiang Ziya was the dominant figure. The rest of the 10 strategists with comparatively inferior status were called \"Shizhe\" (十哲), which means \"Ten Wise Men\", among whom Zhang Liang had the highest status, only below Jiang Ziya. It was supposed to be worshipped in spring and autumn, and the formality would be similar to the worshiping of the Temple of Confucius. \n\nThe people being worshipped in the temple however changed in subsequent periods of history. In Qing Dynasty, Guan Yu (as Guandi or Wudi, the God of War) became the major god in the Martial Temple. Offerings may be made to Guandi on the 15th day or the second month and the 13th day of the fifth month of the lunar calendar. After the Republic of China established in 1912, the government promoted the joint worshiping of Guan Yu and Yue Fei, the latter was considered a national hero in defending Southern Song Dynasty from the invasion of Jurchen Jin. 24 other strategists in the history were also worshiped along Guan Yu and Yue Fei, but with lower status. After the People's Republic of China established in 1949, the government no longer officially promoted Martial Temple.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33963629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33963629", "title": "Mental lexicon", "text": "Mental lexicon\n\nThe mental lexicon is defined as a mental dictionary that contains information regarding a word's meaning, pronunciation, syntactic characteristics, and so on.\n\nThe mental lexicon is a construct used in linguistics and psycholinguistics to refer to individual speakers' lexical, or word, representations. However, not all scientists agree as to the utility of the mental lexicon as a scientific construct.\n\nThe mental lexicon differs from the lexicon in that it is not just a general collection of words; instead, it deals with how those words are activated, stored, processed, and retrieved by each speaker. An individual's mental lexicon changes and grows as new words are learned and is always developing, but there are several theorists that argue exactly how this occurs. Some theories about the mental lexicon include the spectrum theory, the dual-coding theory, Chomsky's nativist theory, as well as the semantic network theory. Scientists also study the areas of the brain involved in lexical representations. The following addresses some of the physiological, social, and linguistic aspects of the mental lexicon.\n\nRecent studies have also shown the possibility that the mental lexicon can shrink as an individual ages, limiting the number of words they can remember and learn. The development of a second mental lexicon (L2) in bilingual speakers has also emerged as a topic of interest, suggesting that a speaker's multiple languages are not stored together, but as separate entities that are actively chosen from in each linguistic situation.\n\nAlthough the mental lexicon is often called a mental \"dictionary\", in actuality, research suggests that it differs greatly from a dictionary. For example, the mental lexicon is not organized alphabetically like a dictionary; rather, it seems to be organized in a more complex manner, with links between phonologically and semantically related lexical items. This is suggested by evidence of phenomena such as slips of the tongue, which showed that replacing words such as \"anecdote\" for \"antidote\".\n\nAlso, while dictionaries contain a fixed number of words to be counted, and remain outdated as language is continually changing, the mental lexicon consistently updates itself with new words and word meanings, while getting rid of old, unused words. The active nature of the mental lexicon makes any dictionary comparison unhelpful. Research is continuing to identify the exact way that words are linked and accessed. A common method to analyze these connections is through a lexical decision task.\n\nLexical Decision Tasks have been used for many years to access how the mental lexicon is structured. Participants in this task are required to respond as quickly and accurately as possible to a string of letters presented on a screen to say if the string is a non-word or a real word. Reaction times from this task indicate that certain words are more \"active\" in participants' minds after related words have been presented. An example of this would be to present the word \"bread\" to the participant and then see an decreased reaction time later to the word \"butter\". Since the word \"bread\" had activated all related words, including \"butter\", this decreased reaction time demonstrates that related words are stored closely in the mental lexicon. By doing lexical decision tasks, researchers have been able to analyze what words are stored with what related counterparts, and what can activate these words.\n\nNot all linguists and psychologists believe in the mental lexicon's existence and there is much controversy over the concept. One theory about the mental lexicon states that it organizes our knowledge about words \"in some sort of dictionary.\" Another states that the mental lexicon is \"a collection of highly complex neural circuits\". The latter, Semantic Network Theory, proposes the idea of \"spreading activation\", which is a hypothetical mental process that takes place when one of the nodes in the semantic network is activated, and proposes three ways this is done: priming effects, neighborhood effects, and frequency effects, which have all been studied in depth over the years.\n\n\nIn the spectrum theory, at one end \"each phonological form is connected to one complex semantic representation\", at the opposite end, homonyms and polysemes have their \"own semantic representation[s]\". \nThe middle of the spectrum contains the theories that \"suggest that related senses share a general or core semantic representation\". The \"dual coding theory (DCT)\" contrasts multiple and common coding theories. DCT is \"an internalized nonverbal system that directly represents the perceptual properties and affordances of nonverbal objects and events, and an internalized verbal system that deals directly with linguistic stimuli and responses\". Similarly, we do not observe words \"as elements in a data structure\" that are \"retrieved from memory, but rather as stimuli that alter mental states\". Others work around Chomsky's theory that \"all syntactic and semantic features are included directly in the abstract mental representation of a lexical word\".\n\nOne aspect of research on the development of the mental lexicon has focused on vocabulary growth. Converging research suggests that at least English children learn several words a day throughout development. The figure at left illustrates the growth curve of a typical English-speaking child's vocabulary size.\n\nThe words acquired in the early stages of language development tend to be nouns or nounlike, and there are some similarities in first words across children (e.g., \"mama, daddy, dog\"). Fast mapping is the idea that children may be able to gain at least partial information about the meaning of a word from how it is used in a sentence, what words it is contrasted with, as well as other factors. This allows the child to quickly hypothesize about the meaning of a word.\n\nResearch suggests that, despite the fast mapping hypothesis, words are not just learned as soon as we are exposed to them, each word needs some type of activation and/or acknowledgement before it is permanently and effectively stored. For young children, the word may be accurately stored in their mental lexicon, and they can recognize when an adult produces the incorrect version of the word, but they may not be able to produce the word accurately.\n\nAs a child acquires their vocabulary, two separate aspects of the mental lexicon develop named the lexeme and the lemma. The lexeme is defined as the part of the mental lexicon that stores morphological and formal information about a word, such as the different versions of spelling and pronunciation of the word. The lemma is defined as the structure within the mental lexicon that stores semantic and syntactic information about a word, such as part of speech and the meaning of the word. Research has shown that the lemma develops first when a word is acquired into a child's vocabulary, and then with repeated exposure the lexeme develops.\n\nThe development of the mental lexicon in bilingual children has increased in research over recent years, and has shown many complexities including the notion that bilingual speakers contain additional and separate mental lexicons for their other languages. Selecting between two or more different lexicons has shown to have benefits extending past language processes. Bilinguals significantly outperform their monolingual counterparts on executive control tasks. Researchers suggest that this enhanced cognitive ability comes from continually choosing between L1 and L2 mental lexicons. Bilinguals have also shown resilience against the onset of Alzheimer's disease, monolinguals being an average of 71.4 years old and the bilinguals 75.5 years old when symptoms of dementia were detected, a difference of 4.1 years.\n\nStudies have shown that the temporal and parietal lobes in the left hemisphere are particularly relevant for the processing of lexical items.\n\nThe following are some hypotheses pertaining to semantic comprehension in the brain:\n\n\nAnomic aphasia, aphasia (expressive + receptive aphasia) and Alzheimer's disease can all affect recalling or retrieving words. Anomia renders a person completely unable to name familiar objects, places and people, a involves specific naming difficulties; sufferers of anomia have difficulties recalling words. Anomia is a lesser level of dysfunction, a severe form of the \"tip-of-the-tongue\" phenomenon where the brain cannot recall the desired word. Stroke, head trauma and brain tumors can cause anomia.\n\nExpressive and receptive aphasia are neurological language disorders. Expressive aphasia limits the ability to convey thoughts through the use of speech, language or writing. Receptive aphasia affects a person's ability to comprehend spoken words, causing disordered sentences that have little or no meaning and which can include addition of nonce words.\n\nHarry Whitaker states that Alzheimer's disease patients are forgetful of proper names. Patients have difficulty generating names, especially with phonological tasks such as words starting with a certain letter. They also have word-retrieval difficulties in spontaneous speech but still have relatively preserved naming of presented stimuli. Later, loss of naming of low-frequency lexical items occurs. Eventually, the loss of ability to comprehend and name the same lexical item indicates semantic loss of the lexical item.\n\nThe majority of current research focuses on the acquisition and functioning of the mental lexicon, without much focus on what happens to the mental lexicon over time. Current studies suggest that as individuals age, they become less capable of storing and remembering words indicating that their \"mental dictionary\" is, in fact, shrinking. One study showed that the size of a Japanese woman's healthy mental lexicon of kanji shrank at a rate of approximately 1% per year between ages 83 and 93 on average. This was tested through a simple naming task once when the subject was 83, and then again at the age of 93.\n\nAs research on the mental lexicon continues to expand into our modern world of abbreviations, researchers have begun to question whether the mental lexicon has the capacity to store acronyms as well as words. Using a lexical decision task with acronyms as priming words, researchers saw that acronyms could in fact prime other related information. This finding suggests that acronyms are stored alongside their related information in the mental lexicon just as a word would be. Research also demonstrated that these acronyms would still prime related information despite inaccurate capitalization (i.e. bbc had the same priming effects as BBC).\n"}
{"id": "165682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165682", "title": "Mongolic languages", "text": "Mongolic languages\n\nThe Mongolic languages are a group of languages spoken in East-Central Asia, mostly in Mongolia and surrounding areas plus in Kalmykia. The best-known member of this language family, Mongolian, is the primary language of most of the residents of Mongolia and the Mongolian residents of Inner Mongolia, with an estimated 5.7+ million speakers.\n\nThe closest relatives of the Mongolic languages appear to be the extinct Khitan and Tuyuhun languages. Some linguists have grouped Mongolic with Turkic, Tungusic, and possibly Koreanic and Japonic as part of the controversial Altaic family.\n\nHistorical Mongolic:\n\nContemporary Mongolic:\n\nAlexander Vovin (2007) identifies the extinct Tabγač or Tuoba language as a Mongolic language. However, Chen (2005) argues that Tuoba (Tabγač) was a Turkic language.\n\nThe classification and numbers of speakers above follow Janhunen (2006) except for Southern Mongolic, which follows Nugteren (2011). In another classificational approach, there is a tendency to call Central Mongolian a language consisting of Mongolian proper, Oirat and Buryat, while Ordos (and implicitly also Khamnigan) is seen as a variety of Mongolian proper. Within Mongolian proper, they then draw a distinction between Khalkha on the one hand and Southern Mongolian (containing everything else) on the other hand. A less common subdivision of Central Mongolic is to divide it into a Central dialect (Khalkha, Chakhar, Ordos), an Eastern dialect (Kharchin, Khorchin), a Western dialect (Oirat, Kalmyk), and a Northern dialect (consisting of two Buryat varieties). The broader delimitation of Mongolian may be based on mutual intelligibility, but an analysis based on a tree diagram such as the one above faces other problems because of the close contacts between, for example, Buryat and Khalkha Mongols during history, thus creating or preserving a dialect continuum. Another problem lies in the sheer comparability of terminology, as Western linguists use \"language\" and \"dialect\", while Mongolian linguists use the Grimmian trichotomy \"language\" (kele), \"dialect\" (nutuγ-un ayalγu) and \"Mundart\" (aman ayalγu).\n\nPre-Proto-Mongolic is the name for the stage of Mongolic that precedes Proto-Mongolic. Proto-Mongolic can be clearly identified chronologically with the language spoken by the Mongols during Genghis Khan's early expansion in the 1200-1210s. Pre-Proto-Mongolic by contrast is a continuum that stretches back indefinitely in time. It is divided into \"Early Pre-Proto-Mongolic\" and \"Late Pre-Proto-Mongolic\". Late Pre-Proto-Mongolic refers to the Mongolic spoken a few centuries before Proto-Mongolic by the Mongols and neighboring tribes like the Merkits and Keraits. Certain archaic words and features in Written Mongol go back past Proto-Mongolic to Late Pre-Proto-Mongolic (Janhunen 2006). In the case of Early Pre-Proto-Mongolic certain loanwords in the Mongolic languages point to early contact with Oghur (Bulgharic) Turkic also known as r-Turkic. These loanwords precede Common Turkic (z-Turkic) loanwords and include Mongolic \"ikere\" (twins) from Bulgharic \"ikir\" (versus Common Turkic \"ekiz\"), \"hüker\" (ox) from Bulgharic \"hekür\" (Common Turkic \"öküz\"), \"jer\" (weapon) from Bulgharic \"jer\" (Common Turkic \"yäz\"), \"biragu\" (calf) versus Common Turkic \"buzagu\" and \"siri-\" (to smelt ore) versus Common Turkic \"siz-\" (to melt). These are thought to have been borrowed from Oghur Turkic during the time of the Xiongnu. Subsequent Turkic people in Mongolia all spoke forms of Common Turkic (z-Turkic) as opposed to Oghur (Bulgharic) Turkic which withdrew to the west in the 4th century. The Chuvash language spoken by 1 million people in European Russia is the only living representative of Oghur Turkic which split from Common Turkic around the 1st century CE. Words in Mongolic like \"dayir\" (brown, Common Turkic \"yagiz\") and \"nidurga\" (fist, Common Turkic \"yudruk\") with initial *d and *n versus Common Turkic *y are sufficiently archaic to indicate loans from an earlier stage of Oghur (Proto-Bulgharic) since Chuvash and Common Turkic do not differ in these features despite differing fundamentally in rhotacism-lambdacism (Janhunen 2006). Oghur tribes lived in the Mongolian borderlands before the 5th century and provided Oghur loanwords to Early Pre-Proto-Mongolic before Common Turkic loanwords.\n\nProto-Mongolic, the ancestor language of the modern Mongolic languages, is very close to Middle Mongol, the language spoken at the time of Genghis Khan and the Mongol Empire. Most features of modern Mongolic languages can thus be reconstructed from Middle Mongol. An exception would be the voice suffix like -caga- 'do together', which can be reconstructed from the modern languages but is not attested in Middle Mongol.\n\nOne can speculate that the languages of Donghu, Wuhuan, and Xianbei might be related to Proto-Mongolic. For Tabghach, the language of the founders of the Northern Wei dynasty for which the surviving evidence is very sparse, and Khitan, for which evidence exists that is written in the two Khitan scripts which have as yet not been fully deciphered, a direct affiliation to Mongolic can now be taken to be most likely or even demonstrated.\nThe extinct Khitan language is a \"Para-Mongolic\" language, meaning that it is related to the Mongolic languages as a sister group, rather than as a direct descendant of Proto-Mongolic.\n\nAlexander Vovin (2015) identifies the extinct Tuyuhun language as yet another Para-Mongolic language.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1379269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1379269", "title": "Musical acoustics", "text": "Musical acoustics\n\nMusical acoustics or music acoustics is a branch of acoustics concerned with researching and describing the physics of music – how sounds are employed to make music. Examples of areas of study are the function of musical instruments, the human voice (the physics of speech and singing), computer analysis of melody, and in the clinical use of music in music therapy.\n\n\nWhenever two different pitches are played at the same time, their sound waves interact with each other – the highs and lows in the air pressure reinforce each other to produce a different sound wave. Any repeating sound wave that is not a sine wave can be modeled by many different sine waves of the appropriate frequencies and amplitudes (a frequency spectrum). In humans the hearing apparatus (composed of the ears and brain) can usually isolate these tones and hear them distinctly. When two or more tones are played at once, a variation of air pressure at the ear \"contains\" the pitches of each, and the ear and/or brain isolate and decode them into distinct tones.\n\nWhen the original sound sources are perfectly periodic, the note consists of several related sine waves (which mathematically add to each other) called the fundamental and the harmonics, partials, or overtones. The sounds have harmonic frequency spectra. The lowest frequency present is the fundamental, and is the frequency at which the entire wave vibrates. The overtones vibrate faster than the fundamental, but must vibrate at integer multiples of the fundamental frequency for the total wave to be exactly the same each cycle. Real instruments are close to periodic, but the frequencies of the overtones are slightly imperfect, so the shape of the wave changes slightly over time.\n\nVariations in air pressure against the ear drum, and the subsequent physical and neurological processing and interpretation, give rise to the subjective experience called \"sound\". Most sound that people recognize as musical is dominated by periodic or regular vibrations rather than non-periodic ones; that is, musical sounds typically have a definite pitch). The transmission of these variations through air is via a sound wave. In a very simple case, the sound of a sine wave, which is considered the most basic model of a sound waveform, causes the air pressure to increase and decrease in a regular fashion, and is heard as a very pure tone. Pure tones can be produced by tuning forks or whistling. The rate at which the air pressure oscillates is the frequency of the tone, which is measured in oscillations per second, called hertz. Frequency is the primary determinant of the perceived pitch. Frequency of musical instruments can change with altitude due to changes in air pressure.\n\nThe fundamental is the frequency at which the entire wave vibrates. Overtones are other sinusoidal components present at frequencies above the fundamental. All of the frequency components that make up the total waveform, including the fundamental and the overtones, are called partials. Together they form the harmonic series.\n\nOvertones that are perfect integer multiples of the fundamental are called harmonics. When an overtone is near to being harmonic, but not exact, it is sometimes called a harmonic partial, although they are often referred to simply as harmonics. Sometimes overtones are created that are not anywhere near a harmonic, and are just called partials or inharmonic overtones.\n\nThe fundamental frequency is considered the \"first harmonic\" and the \"first partial.\" The numbering of the partials and harmonics is then usually the same; the second partial is the second harmonic, etc. But if there are inharmonic partials, the numbering no longer coincides. Overtones are numbered as they appear \"above\" the fundamental. So strictly speaking, the \"first\" overtone is the \"second\" partial (and usually the \"second\" harmonic). As this can result in confusion, only harmonics are usually referred to by their numbers, and overtones and partials are described by their relationships to those harmonics.\n\nWhen a periodic wave is composed of a fundamental and only odd harmonics (f, 3f, 5f, 7f, ...), the summed wave is \"half-wave symmetric\"; it can be inverted and phase shifted and be exactly the same. If the wave has any even harmonics (0f, 2f, 4f, 6f, ...), it is asymmetrical; the top half is not a mirror image of the bottom.\n\nConversely, a system that changes the shape of the wave (beyond simple scaling or shifting) creates additional harmonics (harmonic distortion). This is called a \"non-linear system\". If it affects the wave symmetrically, the harmonics produced are all odd. If it affects the harmonics asymmetrically, at least one even harmonic is produced (and probably also odd harmonics).\n\nIf two notes are simultaneously played, with frequency ratios that are simple fractions (e.g. 2/1, 3/2 or 5/4), the composite wave is still periodic, with a short period—and the combination sounds consonant. For instance, a note vibrating at 200 Hz and a note vibrating at 300 Hz (a perfect fifth, or 3/2 ratio, above 200 Hz) add together to make a wave that repeats at 100 Hz: every 1/100 of a second, the 300 Hz wave repeats three times and the 200 Hz wave repeats twice. Note that the total wave repeats at 100 Hz, but there is no actual 100 Hz sinusoidal component.\n\nAdditionally, the two notes have many of the same partials. For instance, a note with a fundamental frequency of 200 Hz has harmonics at: :(200,) 400, 600, 800, 1000, 1200, …\n\nA note with fundamental frequency of 300 Hz has harmonics at: :(300,) 600, 900, 1200, 1500, … \nThe two notes share harmonics at 600 and 1200 Hz, and more coincide further up the series.\n\nThe combination of composite waves with short fundamental frequencies and shared or closely related partials is what causes the sensation of harmony. When two frequencies are near to a simple fraction, but not exact, the composite wave cycles slowly enough to hear the cancellation of the waves as a steady pulsing instead of a tone. This is called beating, and is considered unpleasant, or dissonant.\n\nThe frequency of beating is calculated as the difference between the frequencies of the two notes. For the example above, |200 Hz - 300 Hz| = 100 Hz. As another example, a combination of 3425 Hz and 3426 Hz would beat once per second (|3425 Hz - 3426 Hz| = 1 Hz). This follows from modulation theory.\n\nThe difference between consonance and dissonance is not clearly defined, but the higher the beat frequency, the more likely the interval is dissonant. Helmholtz proposed that maximum dissonance would arise between two pure tones when the beat rate is roughly 35 Hz. \n\nThe material of a musical composition is usually taken from a collection of pitches known as a scale. Because most people cannot adequately determine absolute frequencies, the identity of a scale lies in the ratios of frequencies between its tones (known as intervals).\n\nThe diatonic scale appears in writing throughout history, consisting of seven tones in each octave. In just intonation the diatonic scale may be easily constructed using the three simplest intervals within the octave, the perfect fifth (3/2), perfect fourth (4/3), and the major third (5/4). As forms of the fifth and third are naturally present in the overtone series of harmonic resonators, this is a very simple process.\n\nThe following table shows the ratios between the frequencies of all the notes of the just major scale and the fixed frequency of the first note of the scale.\n\nThere are other scales available through just intonation, for example the minor scale. Scales that do not adhere to just intonation, and instead have their intervals adjusted to meet other needs are called \"temperaments\", of which equal temperament is the most used. Temperaments, though they obscure the acoustical purity of just intervals, often have desirable properties, such as a closed circle of fifths.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32862077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32862077", "title": "National Archives of Malaysia", "text": "National Archives of Malaysia\n\nThe National Archives of Malaysia are located in Kuala Lumpur. \n\nThe National Archives of Malaysia were established in 1957 as the Public Records Office before changing to their current name in 1963. They established their current location in Jalan Duta in 1982. The National Archives Act 2003 (Act 629) was passed in 2003, providing the legislative basis for the National Archives of Malaysia for branch of archive. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "47679947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47679947", "title": "Oral History of American Music", "text": "Oral History of American Music\n\nOral History of American Music (OHAM), founded in 1969, is an oral history project and archive of audio and video recordings consisting mainly of interviews with American classical and jazz musicians. It is a special collection of the Irving S. Gilmore Music Library at Yale University and housed within the Sterling Memorial Library building in New Haven, Connecticut. It currently holds over 2,000 interviews with more than 900 subjects and is considered the definitive collection of its kind.\n\nThe creation of Oral History of American Music was a result of musicologist Vivian Perlis's research on the life of American composer Charles Ives, for which she interviewed sixty individuals who had known him personally. During the course of the interviews, Perlis recognized the need for a larger project that would collect and preserve the oral history of American composers, and began the OHAM project in 1969 with that intent. Perlis's interviews with friends, family and colleagues of Ives became OHAM's initial collection, and were later used in her 1974 book, \"Charles Ives Remembered: An Oral History\", for which she received the American Musicological Society's Otto Kinkeldey Award—the first time it had been awarded either to a woman or for work on American music. In addition to Perlis's biography of Ives, the project's collection played an instrumental role in a number of other historical works: \"A Good Dissonance Like a Man\", a documentary film about Ives; Aaron Copland's two-volume autobiography \"Copland: 1900 through 1942\" and \"Copland: Since 1943\", co-written with Perlis; and the book \"Composers' Voices from Ives to Ellington\", co-written by Perlis and Libby Van Cleve. Perlis served as the project's director until she retired in 2010 and was succeeded by its current director, Van Cleve.\n\nOHAM expanded through interviews conducted by Perlis, Van Cleve and others, as well as by acquisitions of recordings from scholars, radio producers, and concert presenters. Its largest component today is the Major Figures in American Music series, which primarily documents classical composers at varying stages in their careers. OHAM also holds five series of extensive interviews centered around specific persons and topics.\n\nGrants to preserve and digitize OHAM's recordings have come from the Grammy Foundation, Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the Save America's Treasures initiative. In 2009, the Aaron Copland Fund for Music donated $500,000 to establish an endowment fund for the organization.\n\nOral History of American Music's collection consists primarily of audio and video interviews which are digitized and transcribed. The collection is split into six major components in addition to its acquired materials:\n\n\nNotable subjects who have received significant attention from Oral History of American Music include:\n\n\nFree access to Oral History of American Music's recorded interviews and transcripts is available to the public on-site, in the Sterling Memorial Library on the Yale University campus. The project charges a fee for copies of transcripts. Although neither the recordings nor transcripts are accessible online, tables of contents for each interview can be found at the project's website.\n\n"}
{"id": "10567141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10567141", "title": "Ordinal number (linguistics)", "text": "Ordinal number (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, ordinal numbers (or ordinal numerals) are words representing position or rank in a sequential order; the order may be of size, importance, chronology, and so on (e.g., \"third\", \"tertiary\"). They differ from cardinal numerals, which represent quantity (e.g., \"three\") and other types of numerals. In traditional grammar, all numerals, including ordinal numerals, are grouped into a separate part of speech (, hence, \"noun numeral\" in older English grammar books); however, in modern interpretations of English grammar, ordinal numerals are usually conflated with adjectives.\n\nOrdinal numbers may be written in English with numerals and letter suffixes: 1st, 2nd or 2d, 3rd or 3d, 4th, 11th, 21st, 101st, 477th, etc., with the suffix acting as an ordinal indicator. Written dates often omit the suffix, although it is nevertheless pronounced. For example: 5 November 1605 (pronounced \"the fifth of November ... \"); November 5, 1605, (\"November Fifth ...\"). When written out in full with \"of\", however, the suffix is retained: the 5th of November. In other languages, different ordinal indicators are used to write ordinal numbers.\n\nIn American Sign Language, the ordinal numbers first through ninth are formed with handshapes similar to those for the corresponding cardinal numbers with the addition of a small twist of the wrist.\n\nIn English, the main ordinal series is 'first', 'second', ... It is used in a variety of rankings, including time ('the first hour of the event'), space ('the first left'), and quality ('first class cabin').\n\nThe Latinate series 'primary', 'secondary', ... is often used for importance or precedence ('primary consideration') and sequence of dependence ('secondary effect', 'secondary boycott', 'secondary industry'), though there are other uses as well ('primary school', 'primary election'). The first two in the sequence are by far the most common; 'tertiary' appears occasionally, and higher numbers are rare except in specialized contexts ('quaternary period').\n\nThe Greek series \"proto-\", \"deutero-\", \"trito-\", ... is only found in prefixes, generally scholarly and technical coinages, e.g. protagonist, deuteragonist, tritagonist; protium, deuterium, tritium; \"Proto-Isaiah\", \"Deutero-Isaiah\". Numbers beyond three are rare; those beyond four are obscure.\n\nThe first twelve variations of ordinal numbers are given here.\n\nThe spatial and chronological ordinal numbers corresponding to cardinals from 13 to 19 are the number followed by the suffix \"-th\", as \"sixteenth\". For multiples of ten, the same principle applies, with terminal \"-y\" changed to \"-ieth\", as \"sixtieth\". For other numbers, the elements of the cardinal number are used, with the last word replaced by the ordinal: 23 → \"twenty-third\"; 523 → \"five hundred twenty-third\" (British English: \"five hundred and twenty-third\").\n\nWhen speaking the numbers in fractions, the spatial/chronological numbering system is used for denominators larger than 2 (2 as the denominator of a fraction is \"half\" rather than \"second\"), with a denominator of 4 sometimes spoken as \"quarter\" rather than \"fourth\". This system results in \"two thirds\" for and \"fifteen thirty-seconds\" for . This system is normally used for denominators less than 100 and for many powers of 10. Examples include \"six ten-thousandths\" for and \"three hundredths\" for 0.03.\n\nIn Chinese, ordinal numbers are formed by adding 第 (pinyin: dì, Jyutping: dai6) before the cardinal numbers.\n"}
{"id": "7325634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7325634", "title": "Oritaku Shiba no Ki", "text": "Oritaku Shiba no Ki\n\nHakuseki does not explain the meaning or significance of the title. The general view is that it is in reference to poem in the \"Shin Kokin Wakashū\" poetry anthology:\n\nThis poem was written by Emperor Go-Toba. The smoke that he chokes is an illusion for sobbing for his wife Owari, who died in 1204. The smoke from the burning brushwood twigs reminds him of the smoke from her cremation ceremony.\n\nFor Hakuseki, the one who he yearns for and can not forget is Tokugawa Ienobu, the sixth \"shōgun\" of the Tokugawa shogunate.\n\nAn alternative explanation is suggested by Katsuta Katsutoshi. He argues that Hakuseki did not have a talent for waka and hence he could not have based the title on this poem. Further, in a correspondence with Mura Kyūsō (), Hakuseki writes about his father saying \"They would burn brushwood and talk of things past and present throughout the night\". Katsuta argues that burning brushwood is a euphemism for reminiscent discussion.\n\n\"Oritaku Shiba no Ki\" has been translated into English by Joyce Ackroyd and released in 1979 under the title \"Told Round a Brushwood Fire\" and published by Princeton University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "6855726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6855726", "title": "Parti Parikatha", "text": "Parti Parikatha\n\nParti Parikatha (Story of the Barren soil), is a Hindi novel written by Phanishwar Nath Renu. The story revolves around a motley group of characters in a remote village of North Eastern Bihar in the backdrop of Zamindari (landlordism) Abolition movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "37010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37010", "title": "Philosophy of science", "text": "Philosophy of science\n\nPhilosophy of science is a sub-field of philosophy concerned with the foundations, methods, and implications of science. The central questions of this study concern what qualifies as science, the reliability of scientific theories, and the ultimate purpose of science. This discipline overlaps with metaphysics, ontology, and epistemology, for example, when it explores the relationship between science and truth.\n\nThere is no consensus among philosophers about many of the central problems concerned with the philosophy of science, including whether science can reveal the truth about unobservable things and whether scientific reasoning can be justified at all. In addition to these general questions about science as a whole, philosophers of science consider problems that apply to particular sciences (such as biology or physics). Some philosophers of science also use contemporary results in science to reach conclusions about philosophy itself.\n\nWhile philosophical thought pertaining to science dates back at least to the time of Aristotle, philosophy of science emerged as a distinct discipline only in the 20th century in the wake of the logical positivism movement, which aimed to formulate criteria for ensuring all philosophical statements' meaningfulness and objectively assessing them. Thomas Kuhn's 1962 book \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\" was also formative, challenging the view of scientific progress as steady, cumulative acquisition of knowledge based on a fixed method of systematic experimentation and instead arguing that any progress is relative to a \"paradigm,\" the set of questions, concepts, and practices that define a scientific discipline in a particular historical period. Karl Popper and Charles Sanders Peirce moved on from positivism to establish a modern set of standards for scientific methodology.\n\nSubsequently, the coherentist approach to science, in which a theory is validated if it makes sense of observations as part of a coherent whole, became prominent due to W. V. Quine and others. Some thinkers such as Stephen Jay Gould seek to ground science in axiomatic assumptions, such as the uniformity of nature. A vocal minority of philosophers, and Paul Feyerabend (1924–1994) in particular, argue that there is no such thing as the \"scientific method\", so all approaches to science should be allowed, including explicitly supernatural ones. Another approach to thinking about science involves studying how knowledge is created from a sociological perspective, an approach represented by scholars like David Bloor and Barry Barnes. Finally, a tradition in continental philosophy approaches science from the perspective of a rigorous analysis of human experience.\n\nPhilosophies of the particular sciences range from questions about the nature of time raised by Einstein's general relativity, to the implications of economics for public policy. A central theme is whether one scientific discipline can be reduced to the terms of another. That is, can chemistry be reduced to physics, or can sociology be reduced to individual psychology? The general questions of philosophy of science also arise with greater specificity in some particular sciences. For instance, the question of the validity of scientific reasoning is seen in a different guise in the foundations of statistics. The question of what counts as science and what should be excluded arises as a life-or-death matter in the philosophy of medicine. Additionally, the philosophies of biology, of psychology, and of the social sciences explore whether the scientific studies of human nature can achieve objectivity or are inevitably shaped by values and by social relations.\n\nDistinguishing between science and non-science is referred to as the demarcation problem. For example, should psychoanalysis be considered science? How about so-called creation science, the inflationary multiverse hypothesis, or macroeconomics? Karl Popper called this the central question in the philosophy of science. However, no unified account of the problem has won acceptance among philosophers, and some regard the problem as unsolvable or uninteresting. Martin Gardner has argued for the use of a Potter Stewart standard (\"I know it when I see it\") for recognizing pseudoscience.\n\nEarly attempts by the logical positivists grounded science in observation while non-science was non-observational and hence meaningless. Popper argued that the central property of science is falsifiability. That is, every genuinely scientific claim is capable of being proven false, at least in principle.\n\nAn area of study or speculation that masquerades as science in an attempt to claim a legitimacy that it would not otherwise be able to achieve is referred to as pseudoscience, fringe science, or junk science. Physicist Richard Feynman coined the term \"cargo cult science\" for cases in which researchers believe they are doing science because their activities have the outward appearance of it but actually lack the \"kind of utter honesty\" that allows their results to be rigorously evaluated.\n\nA closely related question is what counts as a good scientific explanation. In addition to providing predictions about future events, society often takes scientific theories to provide explanations for events that occur regularly or have already occurred. Philosophers have investigated the criteria by which a scientific theory can be said to have successfully explained a phenomenon, as well as what it means to say a scientific theory has explanatory power.\n\nOne early and influential theory of scientific explanation is the deductive-nomological model. It says that a successful scientific explanation must deduce the occurrence of the phenomena in question from a scientific law. This view has been subjected to substantial criticism, resulting in several widely acknowledged counterexamples to the theory. It is especially challenging to characterize what is meant by an explanation when the thing to be explained cannot be deduced from any law because it is a matter of chance, or otherwise cannot be perfectly predicted from what is known. Wesley Salmon developed a model in which a good scientific explanation must be statistically relevant to the outcome to be explained. Others have argued that the key to a good explanation is unifying disparate phenomena or providing a causal mechanism.\n\nAlthough it is often taken for granted, it is not at all clear how one can infer the validity of a general statement from a number of specific instances or infer the truth of a theory from a series of successful tests. For example, a chicken observes that each morning the farmer comes and gives it food, for hundreds of days in a row. The chicken may therefore use inductive reasoning to infer that the farmer will bring food \"every\" morning. However, one morning, the farmer comes and kills the chicken. How is scientific reasoning more trustworthy than the chicken's reasoning?\n\nOne approach is to acknowledge that induction cannot achieve certainty, but observing more instances of a general statement can at least make the general statement more probable. So the chicken would be right to conclude from all those mornings that it is likely the farmer will come with food again the next morning, even if it cannot be certain. However, there remain difficult questions about the process of interpreting any given evidence into a probability that the general statement is true. One way out of these particular difficulties is to declare that all beliefs about scientific theories are subjective, or personal, and correct reasoning is merely about how evidence should change one's subjective beliefs over time.\n\nSome argue that what scientists do is not inductive reasoning at all but rather abductive reasoning, or inference to the best explanation. In this account, science is not about generalizing specific instances but rather about hypothesizing explanations for what is observed. As discussed in the previous section, it is not always clear what is meant by the \"best explanation.\" Ockham's razor, which counsels choosing the simplest available explanation, thus plays an important role in some versions of this approach. To return to the example of the chicken, would it be simpler to suppose that the farmer cares about it and will continue taking care of it indefinitely or that the farmer is fattening it up for slaughter? Philosophers have tried to make this heuristic principle more precise in terms of theoretical parsimony or other measures. Yet, although various measures of simplicity have been brought forward as potential candidates, it is generally accepted that there is no such thing as a theory-independent measure of simplicity. In other words, there appear to be as many different measures of simplicity as there are theories themselves, and the task of choosing between measures of simplicity appears to be every bit as problematic as the job of choosing between theories. Nicholas Maxwell has argued for some decades that unity rather than simplicity is the key non-empirical factor in influencing choice of theory in science, persistent preference for unified theories in effect committing science to the acceptance of a metaphysical thesis concerning unity in nature. In order to improve this problematic thesis, it needs to be represented in the form of a hierarchy of theses, each thesis becoming more insubstantial as one goes up the hierarchy.\n\nWhen making observations, scientists look through telescopes, study images on electronic screens, record meter readings, and so on. Generally, on a basic level, they can agree on what they see, e.g., the thermometer shows 37.9 degrees C. But, if these scientists have different ideas about the theories that have been developed to explain these basic observations, they may disagree about what they are observing. For example, before Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity, observers would have likely interpreted the image at right as five different objects in space. In light of that theory, however, astronomers will tell you that there are actually only two objects, one in the center and four different images of a second object around the sides. Alternatively, if other scientists suspect that something is wrong with the telescope and only one object is actually being observed, they are operating under yet another theory. Observations that cannot be separated from theoretical interpretation are said to be theory-laden.\n\nAll observation involves both perception and cognition. That is, one does not make an observation passively, but rather is actively engaged in distinguishing the phenomenon being observed from surrounding sensory data. Therefore, observations are affected by one's underlying understanding of the way in which the world functions, and that understanding may influence what is perceived, noticed, or deemed worthy of consideration. In this sense, it can be argued that all observation is theory-laden.\n\nShould science aim to determine ultimate truth, or are there questions that science cannot answer? \"Scientific realists\" claim that science aims at truth and that one ought to regard scientific theories as true, approximately true, or likely true. Conversely, \"scientific anti-realists\" argue that science does not aim (or at least does not succeed) at truth, especially truth about unobservables like electrons or other universes. Instrumentalists argue that scientific theories should only be evaluated on whether they are useful. In their view, whether theories are true or not is beside the point, because the purpose of science is to make predictions and enable effective technology.\n\nRealists often point to the success of recent scientific theories as evidence for the truth (or near truth) of current theories. Antirealists point to either the many false theories in the history of science, epistemic morals, the success of false modeling assumptions, or widely termed postmodern criticisms of objectivity as evidence against scientific realism. Antirealists attempt to explain the success of scientific theories without reference to truth. Some antirealists claim that scientific theories aim at being accurate only about observable objects and argue that their success is primarily judged by that criterion.\n\nValues intersect with science in different ways. There are epistemic values that mainly guide the scientific research. The scientific enterprise is embedded in particular culture and values through individual practitioners. Values emerge from science, both as product and process and can be distributed among several cultures in the society.\n\nIf it is unclear what counts as science, how the process of confirming theories works, and what the purpose of science is, there is considerable scope for values and other social influences to shape science. Indeed, values can play a role ranging from determining which research gets funded to influencing which theories achieve scientific consensus. For example, in the 19th century, cultural values held by scientists about race shaped research on evolution, and values concerning social class influenced debates on phrenology (considered scientific at the time). Feminist philosophers of science, sociologists of science, and others explore how social values affect science.\n\nThe origins of philosophy of science trace back to Plato and Aristotle who distinguished the forms of approximate and exact reasoning, set out the threefold scheme of abductive, deductive, and inductive inference, and also analyzed reasoning by analogy. The eleventh century Arab polymath Ibn al-Haytham (known in Latin as Alhazen) conducted his research in optics by way of controlled experimental testing and applied geometry, especially in his investigations into the images resulting from the reflection and refraction of light. Roger Bacon (1214–1294), an English thinker and experimenter heavily influenced by al-Haytham, is recognized by many to be the father of modern scientific method. His view that mathematics was essential to a correct understanding of natural philosophy was considered to be 400 years ahead of its time.\n\nFrancis Bacon (no direct relation to Roger, who lived 300 years earlier) was a seminal figure in philosophy of science at the time of the Scientific Revolution. In his work \"Novum Organum\" (1620) – an allusion to Aristotle's \"Organon\" – Bacon outlined a new system of logic to improve upon the old philosophical process of syllogism. Bacon's method relied on experimental \"histories\" to eliminate alternative theories. In 1637, René Descartes established a new framework for grounding scientific knowledge in his treatise, \"Discourse on Method\", advocating the central role of reason as opposed to sensory experience. By contrast, in 1713, the 2nd edition of Isaac Newton's \"Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica\" argued that \"... hypotheses ... have no place in experimental philosophy. In this philosophy[,] propositions are deduced from the phenomena and rendered general by induction. \" This passage influenced a \"later generation of philosophically-inclined readers to pronounce a ban on causal hypotheses in natural philosophy.\" In particular, later in the 18th century, David Hume would famously articulate skepticism about the ability of science to determine causality and gave a definitive formulation of the problem of induction. The 19th century writings of John Stuart Mill are also considered important in the formation of current conceptions of the scientific method, as well as anticipating later accounts of scientific explanation.\n\nInstrumentalism became popular among physicists around the turn of the 20th century, after which logical positivism defined the field for several decades. Logical positivism accepts only testable statements as meaningful, rejects metaphysical interpretations, and embraces verificationism (a set of theories of knowledge that combines logicism, empiricism, and linguistics to ground philosophy on a basis consistent with examples from the empirical sciences). Seeking to overhaul all of philosophy and convert it to a new \"scientific philosophy\", the Berlin Circle and the Vienna Circle propounded logical positivism in the late 1920s.\n\nInterpreting Ludwig Wittgenstein's early philosophy of language, logical positivists identified a verifiability principle or criterion of cognitive meaningfulness. From Bertrand Russell's logicism they sought reduction of mathematics to logic. They also embraced Russell's logical atomism, Ernst Mach's phenomenalism—whereby the mind knows only actual or potential sensory experience, which is the content of all sciences, whether physics or psychology—and Percy Bridgman's operationalism. Thereby, only the \"verifiable\" was scientific and \"cognitively meaningful\", whereas the unverifiable was unscientific, cognitively meaningless \"pseudostatements\"—metaphysical, emotive, or such—not worthy of further review by philosophers, who were newly tasked to organize knowledge rather than develop new knowledge.\n\nLogical positivism is commonly portrayed as taking the extreme position that scientific language should never refer to anything unobservable—even the seemingly core notions of causality, mechanism, and principles—but that is an exaggeration. Talk of such unobservables could be allowed as metaphorical—direct observations viewed in the abstract—or at worst metaphysical or emotional. \"Theoretical laws\" would be reduced to \"empirical laws\", while \"theoretical terms\" would garner meaning from \"observational terms\" via \"correspondence rules\". Mathematics in physics would reduce to symbolic logic via logicism, while rational reconstruction would convert ordinary language into standardized equivalents, all networked and united by a logical syntax. A scientific theory would be stated with its method of verification, whereby a logical calculus or empirical operation could verify its falsity or truth.\n\nIn the late 1930s, logical positivists fled Germany and Austria for Britain and America. By then, many had replaced Mach's phenomenalism with Otto Neurath's physicalism, and Rudolf Carnap had sought to replace \"verification\" with simply \"confirmation\". With World War II's close in 1945, logical positivism became milder, \"logical empiricism\", led largely by Carl Hempel, in America, who expounded the covering law model of scientific explanation as a way of identifying the logical form of explanations without any reference to the suspect notion of \"causation\". The logical positivist movement became a major underpinning of analytic philosophy, and dominated Anglosphere philosophy, including philosophy of science, while influencing sciences, into the 1960s. Yet the movement failed to resolve its central problems, and its doctrines were increasingly assaulted. Nevertheless, it brought about the establishment of philosophy of science as a distinct subdiscipline of philosophy, with Carl Hempel playing a key role.\n\nIn the 1962 book \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\", Thomas Kuhn argued that the process of observation and evaluation takes place within a paradigm, a logically consistent \"portrait\" of the world that is consistent with observations made from its framing. A paradigm also encompasses the set of questions and practices that define a scientific discipline. He characterized \"normal science\" as the process of observation and \"puzzle solving\" which takes place within a paradigm, whereas \"revolutionary science\" occurs when one paradigm overtakes another in a paradigm shift.\n\nKuhn denied that it is ever possible to isolate the hypothesis being tested from the influence of the theory in which the observations are grounded, and he argued that it is not possible to evaluate competing paradigms independently. More than one logically consistent construct can paint a usable likeness of the world, but there is no common ground from which to pit two against each other, theory against theory. Each paradigm has its own distinct questions, aims, and interpretations. Neither provides a standard by which the other can be judged, so there is no clear way to measure scientific progress across paradigms.\n\nFor Kuhn, the choice of paradigm was sustained by rational processes, but not ultimately determined by them. The choice between paradigms involves setting two or more \"portraits\" against the world and deciding which likeness is most promising. For Kuhn, acceptance or rejection of a paradigm is a social process as much as a logical process. Kuhn's position, however, is not one of relativism. According to Kuhn, a paradigm shift occurs when a significant number of observational anomalies arise in the old paradigm and a new paradigm makes sense of them. That is, the choice of a new paradigm is based on observations, even though those observations are made against the background of the old paradigm.\n\nAll scientific study inescapably builds on at least some essential assumptions that are untested by scientific processes. Kuhn concurs that all science is based on an approved agenda of unprovable assumptions about the character of the universe, rather than merely on empirical facts. These assumptions—a paradigm—comprise a collection of beliefs, values and techniques that are held by a given scientific community, which legitimize their systems and set the limitations to their investigation. For naturalists, nature is the only reality, the only paradigm. There is no such thing as 'supernatural'. The scientific method is to be used to investigate all reality.\n\nNaturalism is the implicit philosophy of working scientists. The following basic assumptions are needed to justify the scientific method.\n\n\nIn contrast to the view that science rests on foundational assumptions, coherentism asserts that statements are justified by being a part of a coherent system. Or, rather, individual statements cannot be validated on their own: only coherent systems can be justified. A prediction of a transit of Venus is justified by its being coherent with broader beliefs about celestial mechanics and earlier observations. As explained above, observation is a cognitive act. That is, it relies on a pre-existing understanding, a systematic set of beliefs. An observation of a transit of Venus requires a huge range of auxiliary beliefs, such as those that describe the optics of telescopes, the mechanics of the telescope mount, and an understanding of celestial mechanics. If the prediction fails and a transit is not observed, that is likely to occasion an adjustment in the system, a change in some auxiliary assumption, rather than a rejection of the theoretical system.\n\nIn fact, according to the Duhem–Quine thesis, after Pierre Duhem and W. V. Quine, it is impossible to test a theory in isolation. One must always add auxiliary hypotheses in order to make testable predictions. For example, to test Newton's Law of Gravitation in the solar system, one needs information about the masses and positions of the Sun and all the planets. Famously, the failure to predict the orbit of Uranus in the 19th century led not to the rejection of Newton's Law but rather to the rejection of the hypothesis that the solar system comprises only seven planets. The investigations that followed led to the discovery of an eighth planet, Neptune. If a test fails, something is wrong. But there is a problem in figuring out what that something is: a missing planet, badly calibrated test equipment, an unsuspected curvature of space, or something else.\n\nOne consequence of the Duhem–Quine thesis is that one can make any theory compatible with any empirical observation by the addition of a sufficient number of suitable \"ad hoc\" hypotheses. Karl Popper accepted this thesis, leading him to reject naïve falsification. Instead, he favored a \"survival of the fittest\" view in which the most falsifiable scientific theories are to be preferred.\n\nPaul Feyerabend (1924–1994) argued that no description of scientific method could possibly be broad enough to include all the approaches and methods used by scientists, and that there are no useful and exception-free methodological rules governing the progress of science. He argued that \"the only principle that does not inhibit progress is: \"anything goes\"\".\n\nFeyerabend said that science started as a liberating movement, but that over time it had become increasingly dogmatic and rigid and had some oppressive features. and thus had become increasingly an ideology. Because of this, he said it was impossible to come up with an unambiguous way to distinguish science from religion, magic, or mythology. He saw the exclusive dominance of science as a means of directing society as authoritarian and ungrounded. Promulgation of this epistemological anarchism earned Feyerabend the title of \"the worst enemy of science\" from his detractors.\n\nAccording to Kuhn, science is an inherently communal activity which can only be done as part of a community. For him, the fundamental difference between science and other disciplines is the way in which the communities function. Others, especially Feyerabend and some post-modernist thinkers, have argued that there is insufficient difference between social practices in science and other disciplines to maintain this distinction. For them, social factors play an important and direct role in scientific method, but they do not serve to differentiate science from other disciplines. On this account, science is socially constructed, though this does not necessarily imply the more radical notion that reality itself is a social construct.\n\nHowever, some (such as Quine) do maintain that scientific reality is a social construct:\n\nPhysical objects are conceptually imported into the situation as convenient intermediaries not by definition in terms of experience, but simply as irreducible posits comparable, epistemologically, to the gods of Homer ... For my part I do, qua lay physicist, believe in physical objects and not in Homer's gods; and I consider it a scientific error to believe otherwise. But in point of epistemological footing, the physical objects and the gods differ only in degree and not in kind. Both sorts of entities enter our conceptions only as \"cultural posits\".\nThe public backlash of scientists against such views, particularly in the 1990s, became known as the science wars.\n\nA major development in recent decades has been the study of the formation, structure, and evolution of scientific communities by sociologists and anthropologists - including David Bloor, Harry Collins, Bruno Latour, and Anselm Strauss. Concepts and methods (such as rational choice, social choice or game theory) from economics have also been applied for understanding the efficiency of scientific communities in the production of knowledge. This interdisciplinary field has come to be known as science and technology studies.\nHere the approach to the philosophy of science is to study how scientific communities actually operate.\n\nPhilosophers in the continental philosophical tradition are not traditionally categorized as philosophers of science. However, they have much to say about science, some of which has anticipated themes in the analytical tradition. For example, Friedrich Nietzsche advanced the thesis in his \"The Genealogy of Morals\" that the motive for search of truth in sciences is a kind of ascetic ideal.\n\nIn general, science in continental philosophy is viewed from a world-historical perspective. One of the first philosophers who supported this view was Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Philosophers such as Pierre Duhem and Gaston Bachelard also wrote their works with this world-historical approach to science, predating Kuhn by a generation or more. All of these approaches involve a historical and sociological turn to science, with a priority on lived experience (a kind of Husserlian \"life-world\"), rather than a progress-based or anti-historical approach as done in the analytic tradition. This emphasis can be traced through Edmund Husserl's phenomenology, the late works of Merleau-Ponty (\"Nature: Course Notes from the Collège de France\", 1956–1960), and Martin Heidegger's hermeneutics.\n\nThe largest effect on the continental tradition with respect to science was Martin Heidegger's critique of the theoretical attitude in general which of course includes the scientific attitude. For this reason the continental tradition has remained much more skeptical of the importance of science in human life and philosophical inquiry. Nonetheless, there have been a number of important works: especially a Kuhnian precursor, Alexandre Koyré. Another important development was that of Michel Foucault's analysis of the historical and scientific thought in \"The Order of Things\" and his study of power and corruption within the \"science\" of madness. Post-Heideggerian authors contributing to the continental philosophy of science in the second half of the 20th century include Jürgen Habermas (e.g., \"Truth and Justification\", 1998), Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker (\"The Unity of Nature\", 1980), and Wolfgang Stegmüller (\"Probleme und Resultate der Wissenschafttheorie und Analytischen Philosophie\", 1973–1986).\n\nAnalysis is the activity of breaking an observation or theory down into simpler concepts in order to understand it. Reductionism can refer to one of several philosophical positions related to this approach. One type of reductionism is the belief that all fields of study are ultimately amenable to scientific explanation. Perhaps a historical event might be explained in sociological and psychological terms, which in turn might be described in terms of human physiology, which in turn might be described in terms of chemistry and physics. Daniel Dennett distinguishes legitimate reductionism from what he calls \"greedy reductionism,\" which denies real complexities and leaps too quickly to sweeping generalizations.\n\nA broad issue affecting the neutrality of science concerns the areas which science chooses to explore, that is, what part of the world and man is studied by science. Philip Kitcher in his \"Science, Truth, and Democracy\" argues that scientific studies that attempt to show one segment of the population as being less intelligent, successful or emotionally backward compared to others have a political feedback effect which further excludes such groups from access to science. Thus such studies undermine the broad consensus required for good science by excluding certain people, and so proving themselves in the end to be unscientific.\n\nIn addition to addressing the general questions regarding science and induction, many philosophers of science are occupied by investigating foundational problems in particular sciences. They also examine the implications of particular sciences for broader philosophical questions. The late 20th and early 21st century has seen a rise in the number of practitioners of philosophy of a particular science.\n\nThe problem of induction discussed above is seen in another form in debates over the foundations of statistics. The standard approach to statistical hypothesis testing avoids claims about whether evidence supports a hypothesis or makes it more probable. Instead, the typical test yields a p-value, which is the probability of the \"evidence\" being such as it is, under the assumption that the hypothesis being tested is true. If the \"p\"-value is too low, the hypothesis is rejected, in a way analogous to falsification. In contrast, Bayesian inference seeks to assign probabilities to hypotheses. Related topics in philosophy of statistics include probability interpretations, overfitting, and the difference between correlation and causation.\n\nPhilosophy of mathematics is concerned with the philosophical foundations and implications of mathematics. The central questions are whether numbers, triangles, and other mathematical entities exist independently of the human mind and what is the nature of mathematical propositions. Is asking whether \"1+1=2\" is true fundamentally different from asking whether a ball is red? Was calculus invented or discovered? A related question is whether learning mathematics requires experience or reason alone. What does it mean to prove a mathematical theorem and how does one know whether a mathematical proof is correct? Philosophers of mathematics also aim to clarify the relationships between mathematics and logic, human capabilities such as intuition, and the material universe.\n\nPhilosophy of physics is the study of the fundamental, philosophical questions underlying modern physics, the study of matter and energy and how they interact. The main questions concern the nature of space and time, atoms and atomism. Also included are the predictions of cosmology, the interpretation of quantum mechanics, the foundations of statistical mechanics, causality, determinism, and the nature of physical laws. Classically, several of these questions were studied as part of metaphysics (for example, those about causality, determinism, and space and time).\n\nPhilosophy of chemistry is the philosophical study of the methodology and content of the science of chemistry. It is explored by philosophers, chemists, and philosopher-chemist teams. It includes research on general philosophy of science issues as applied to chemistry. For example, can all chemical phenomena be explained by quantum mechanics or is it not possible to reduce chemistry to physics? For another example, chemists have discussed the philosophy of how theories are confirmed in the context of confirming reaction mechanisms. Determining reaction mechanisms is difficult because they cannot be observed directly. Chemists can use a number of indirect measures as evidence to rule out certain mechanisms, but they are often unsure if the remaining mechanism is correct because there are many other possible mechanisms that they have not tested or even thought of. Philosophers have also sought to clarify the meaning of chemical concepts which do not refer to specific physical entities, such as chemical bonds.\n\nThe philosophy of Earth science is concerned with how humans obtain and verify knowledge of the workings of the Earth system, including the atmosphere, hydrosphere, and geosphere (solid earth). Earth scientists’ ways of knowing and habits of mind share important commonalities with other sciences but also have distinctive attributes that emerge from the complex, heterogeneous, unique, long-lived, and non-manipulatable nature of the Earth system.\n\nPhilosophy of biology deals with epistemological, metaphysical, and ethical issues in the biological and biomedical sciences. Although philosophers of science and philosophers generally have long been interested in biology (e.g., Aristotle, Descartes, Leibniz and even Kant), philosophy of biology only emerged as an independent field of philosophy in the 1960s and 1970s. Philosophers of science began to pay increasing attention to developments in biology, from the rise of the modern synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s to the discovery of the structure of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) in 1953 to more recent advances in genetic engineering. Other key ideas such as the reduction of all life processes to biochemical reactions as well as the incorporation of psychology into a broader neuroscience are also addressed. Research in current philosophy of biology includes investigation of the foundations of evolutionary theory (such as Peter Godfrey-Smith's work), and the role of viruses as persistent symbionts in host genomes. As a consequence the evolution of genetic content order is seen as the result of competent genome editors in contrast to former narratives in which error replication events (mutations) dominated.\nBeyond medical ethics and bioethics, the philosophy of medicine is a branch of philosophy that includes the epistemology and ontology/metaphysics of medicine. Within the epistemology of medicine, evidence-based medicine (EBM) (or evidence-based practice (EBP)) has attracted attention, most notably the roles of randomisation, blinding and placebo controls. Related to these areas of investigation, ontologies of specific interest to the philosophy of medicine include Cartesian dualism, the monogenetic conception of disease and the conceptualization of 'placebos' and 'placebo effects'. There is also a growing interest in the metaphysics of medicine, particularly the idea of causation. Philosophers of medicine might not only be interested in how medical knowledge is generated, but also in the nature of such phenomena. Causation is of interest because the purpose of much medical research is to establish causal relationships, e.g. what causes disease, or what causes people to get better.\n\nPhilosophy of psychology refers to issues at the theoretical foundations of modern psychology. Some of these issues are epistemological concerns about the methodology of psychological investigation. For example, is the best method for studying psychology to focus only on the response of behavior to external stimuli or should psychologists focus on mental perception and thought processes? If the latter, an important question is how the internal experiences of others can be measured. Self-reports of feelings and beliefs may not be reliable because, even in cases in which there is no apparent incentive for subjects to intentionally deceive in their answers, self-deception or selective memory may affect their responses. Then even in the case of accurate self-reports, how can responses be compared across individuals? Even if two individuals respond with the same answer on a Likert scale, they may be experiencing very different things.\n\nOther issues in philosophy of psychology are philosophical questions about the nature of mind, brain, and cognition, and are perhaps more commonly thought of as part of cognitive science, or philosophy of mind. For example, are humans rational creatures? Is there any sense in which they have free will, and how does that relate to the experience of making choices? Philosophy of psychology also closely monitors contemporary work conducted in cognitive neuroscience, evolutionary psychology, and artificial intelligence, questioning what they can and cannot explain in psychology.\n\nPhilosophy of psychology is a relatively young field, because psychology only became a discipline of its own in the late 1800s. In particular, neurophilosophy has just recently become its own field with the works of Paul Churchland and Patricia Churchland. Philosophy of mind, by contrast, has been a well-established discipline since before psychology was a field of study at all. It is concerned with questions about the very nature of mind, the qualities of experience, and particular issues like the debate between dualism and monism. Another related field is philosophy of language.\n\nA notable recent development in Philosophy of Psychology is Functional Contextualism or Contextual Behavioural Science (CBS). Functional Contextualism is a modern philosophy of science rooted in philosophical pragmatism and contextualism. It is most actively developed in behavioral science in general, the field of behavior analysis, and contextual behavioral science in particular (see the entry for the Association for Contextual Behavioral Science). Functional contextualism serves as the basis of a theory of language known as relational frame theory and its most prominent application, acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT). It is an extension and contextualistic interpretation of B.F. Skinner's radical behaviorism first delineated by Steven C. Hayes which emphasizes the importance of predicting and influencing psychological events (including thoughts, feelings, and behaviors) with precision, scope, and depth, by focusing on manipulable variables in their context.\n\nPhilosophy of psychiatry explores philosophical questions relating to psychiatry and mental illness. The philosopher of science and medicine Dominic Murphy identifies three areas of exploration in the philosophy of psychiatry. The first concerns the examination of psychiatry as a science, using the tools of the philosophy of science more broadly. The second entails the examination of the concepts employed in discussion of mental illness, including the experience of mental illness, and the normative questions it raises. The third area concerns the links and discontinuities between the philosophy of mind and psychopathology.\n\nPhilosophy of economics is the branch of philosophy which studies philosophical issues relating to economics. It can also be defined as the branch of economics which studies its own foundations and morality. It can be categorized into three central topics. The first concerns the definition and scope of economics and by what methods it should be studied and whether these methods rise to the level of epistemic reliability associated with the other special sciences. For example, is it possible to research economics in such a way that it is value-free, establishing facts that are independent of the normative views of the researcher? The second topic is the meaning and implications of rationality. For example, can buying lottery tickets (increasing the riskiness of your income) at the same time as buying insurance (decreasing the riskiness of your income) be rational? The third topic is the normative evaluation of economic policies and outcomes. What criteria should be used to determine whether a given public policy is beneficial for society?\n\nThe philosophy of social science is the study of the logic and method of the social sciences, such as sociology, anthropology, and political science. Philosophers of social science are concerned with the differences and similarities between the social and the natural sciences, causal relationships between social phenomena, the possible existence of social laws, and the ontological significance of structure and agency.\n\nThe French philosopher, Auguste Comte (1798–1857), established the epistemological perspective of positivism in \"The Course in Positivist Philosophy\", a series of texts published between 1830 and 1842. The first three volumes of the \"Course\" dealt chiefly with the physical sciences already in existence (mathematics, astronomy, physics, chemistry, biology), whereas the latter two emphasised the inevitable coming of social science: \"sociologie\". For Comte, the physical sciences had necessarily to arrive first, before humanity could adequately channel its efforts into the most challenging and complex \"Queen science\" of human society itself. Comte offers an evolutionary system proposing that society undergoes three phases in its quest for the truth according to a general 'law of three stages'. These are (1) the \"theological\", (2) the \"metaphysical\", and (3) the \"positive\".\n\nComte's positivism established the initial philosophical foundations for formal sociology and social research. Durkheim, Marx, and Weber are more typically cited as the fathers of contemporary social science. In psychology, a positivistic approach has historically been favoured in behaviourism. Positivism has also been espoused by 'technocrats' who believe in the inevitability of social progress through science and technology.\n\nThe positivist perspective has been associated with 'scientism'; the view that the methods of the natural sciences may be applied to all areas of investigation, be it philosophical, social scientific, or otherwise. Among most social scientists and historians, orthodox positivism has long since lost popular support. Today, practitioners of both social and physical sciences instead take into account the distorting effect of observer bias and structural limitations. This scepticism has been facilitated by a general weakening of deductivist accounts of science by philosophers such as Thomas Kuhn, and new philosophical movements such as critical realism and neopragmatism. The philosopher-sociologist Jürgen Habermas has critiqued pure instrumental rationality as meaning that scientific-thinking becomes something akin to ideology itself.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "692194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=692194", "title": "Pitt Rivers Museum", "text": "Pitt Rivers Museum\n\nThe Pitt Rivers Museum is a museum displaying the archaeological and anthropological collections of the University of Oxford in Oxford, England. The museum is located to the east of the Oxford University Museum of Natural History, and can only be accessed through that building.\n\nThe museum was founded in 1884 by Lt-General Augustus Pitt Rivers, who donated his collection to the University of Oxford with the condition that a permanent lecturer in anthropology must be appointed. Museum staff are involved in teaching Archaeology and Anthropology at the University even today. The first Curator of the museum was Henry Balfour. A second stipulation in the Deed of Gift was that a building should be provided to house the collection and used for no other purpose. The University therefore engaged Thomas Manly Deane, son of Thomas Newenham Deane who, together with Benjamin Woodward, had designed and built the original Oxford University Museum of Natural History building three decades earlier, to create an adjoining building at the rear of the main building to house the collection. Construction started in 1885 and was completed in 1886.\n\nThe original donation consisted of approximately 22,000 items; this has now grown to 500,000 items, many of which have been donated by travellers, scholars and missionaries.\nThe museum's collection is arranged typologically, according to how the objects were used, rather than according to their age or origin. This layout owes a lot to the theories of Pitt Rivers himself, who intended for his collection to show progression in design and evolution in human culture from the simple to the complex. Whilst this evolutionary approach to material culture is no longer fashionable in archaeology and anthropology, the museum has retained the original organisation of the displays. The display of many examples of a particular type of tool or artifact, showing historical and regional variations, is an unusual and distinct feature of this museum.\n\nThe museum has a high density of objects on display, and the displays are changed periodically.\n\nAt 11.36m high the Haida totem pole is the largest object on display in the museum. From a Haida community, it originally stood outside Star House in the village of Old Massett (Haida name Uttewas), on Graham Island, in British Columbia, Canada. The house was built around 1882 and belonged to chief Anetlas (c.1816 - 1893). The pole came to the Pitt Rivers Museum in 1901.\n\nIn 2004, the museum received £3,700,000 from the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE) to build a research annex adjoining the museum. Building work was completed in 2007, bringing the academic staff of the museum back to the site, and providing a laboratory for conservation of the specimens. The annex will not affect the Victorian displays of the museum.\n\nThe second phase of development began on 7 July 2008 necessitating the closure of the museum and galleries. The museum reopened on 1 May 2009. In this work, the 1960s exhibition gallery was dismantled, restoring the original view through to the museum’s totem pole. Original display cases were returned to their original place at the front of the museum. The space upstairs vacated by these cases provides additional space for a Clore Duffield Education Centre. A new entrance platform allows visitors to enter on the same level as the Oxford University Museum of Natural History and improves access for wheelchair users and parents with pushchairs. The entrance platform provides re-located shop and reception areas. An environmental control system has also been installed.\n\nThe Pitt Rivers Museum, along with the Oxford University Museum of Natural History, won \"The Guardian\" newspaper's award for Family Friendly Museum of 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "346530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346530", "title": "Porphyria's Lover", "text": "Porphyria's Lover\n\n\"Porphyria's Lover\" is a poem by Robert Browning which was first published as \"Porphyria\" in the January 1836 issue of \"Monthly Repository\". Browning later republished it in \"Dramatic Lyrics\" (1842) paired with \"Johannes Agricola in Meditation\" under the title \"Madhouse Cells\". The poem did not receive its definitive title until 1863.\n\n\"Porphyria's Lover\" is Browning's first ever short dramatic monologue, and also the first of his poems to examine abnormal psychology. Although its initial publication passed nearly unnoticed and received little critical attention in the nineteenth century, the poem is now heavily anthologised and much studied.\n\nIn the poem, a man strangles his lover – Porphyria – with her hair; \"... and all her hair / In one long yellow string I wound / Three times her little throat around, / And strangled her.\" Porphyria's lover then talks of the corpse's blue eyes, golden hair, and describes the feeling of perfect happiness the murder gives him. Although he winds her hair around her throat three times to throttle her, the woman never cries out. The poem uses a somewhat unusual rhyme scheme: A,B,A,B,B, the final repetition bringing each stanza to a heavy rest.\n\nA possible source for the poem is John Wilson's \"Extracts from Gosschen's Diary\", a lurid account of a murder published in \"Blackwood's Magazine\" in 1818. Browning's friend and fellow poet Bryan Procter acknowledged basing his 1820 \"Marcian Colonna\" on this source, but added a new detail; after the murder, the killer sits up all night with his victim.\n\nBrowning's monologues are frequently voiced by eccentrics, lunatics, or people under emotional stress. Their ramblings illustrate character by describing the interactions of an odd personality with a particularly telling set of circumstances. In both \"Porphyria's Lover\" and \"My Last Duchess\", Browning uses this mode of exposition to describe a man who responds to the love of a beautiful woman by killing her. Each monologue offers the speaker's reasons for the desired woman from subject to object: in \"My Last Duchess\", the Duke may have jealously murdered his wife, but keeps a portrait of her behind a curtain so none can look upon her smile without his permission; in \"Porphyria's Lover\", the persona wishes to stop time at a single perfect moment and so kills his lover and sits all night embracing her carefully arranged body. It should be noted that in \"My Last Duchess\" the woman's murder is at best implied, while in \"Porphyria's Lover\" it is described quite explicitly by the speaker. The unchanging rhythmic pattern may also suggest the persona's insanity. \nThe \"Porphyria\" persona's romantic egotism leads him into all manner of monstrously selfish assumptions compatible with his own longings. He seems convinced that Porphyria wanted to be murdered, and claims \"No pain felt she\" while being strangled, adding, as if to convince himself, \"I am quite sure she felt no pain.\" He may even believe she enjoyed the pain, because he, her lover, inflicted it. When she's dead, he says she's found her \"utmost will,\" and when he sees her lifeless head drooping on his shoulder, he describes it as a \"smiling rosy little head\", possibly using the word \"rosy\" to symbolise the red roses of love, or to demonstrate his delusion that the girl, and their relationship, are still alive. More likely, however, is the thought that blood returning to her face, after the strangulation, makes her cheeks \"rosy.\" Her \"rosy little head\" may also be a sly reference to the hymen; Porphyria leaves a \"gay feast\" and comes in from the outside world wearing \"soiled gloves\"; now her blue eyes, open in death, are \"without a stain\". The lover may also be a fetishist, indicated by the fact that he refers to her hair numerous times throughout the poem, and strangles her with it. He also refers to the \"shut bud that holds a bee\" which backs up the view of it being a sexual fetish.\n\nSince the speaker may (as many speculate) be insane, it is impossible to know the true nature of his relationship to Porphyria. Theories, some of them rather bizarre, abound: some contemporary scholars suggest, for example, that the persona may be a woman; if so, the strangulation could stem from frustration with the world. An incestuous relationship has also been suggested; Porphyria might be the speaker's mother or sister. Another possibility is that she is a former lover, now betrothed, or even married, to some other man. Alternatively, she may simply be some kind lady who has come to look in on him, or even a figment of his imagination.\n\nOther sources speculate that the lover might be impotent, disabled, sick, or otherwise inadequate, and, as such, unable to satisfy Porphyria. There is much textual evidence to support this interpretation: he describes himself as \"one so pale / for love of her, and all in vain.\" At the beginning of the poem, the persona never moves; he sits passively in a cold, dark room, sadly listening to the storm until Porphyria comes through \"wind and rain\", \"shuts the cold out and the storm,\" and makes up his dying fire. Finally, she sits beside him, calls his name, places his arm around her waist, and puts his head on her shoulder; she has to stoop to do this. At the poem's midpoint, the persona suddenly takes action, strangling Porphyria, propping her body against his, and boasting that afterward, \"her\" head lay on \"his\" shoulder.\n\nIn line with the persona's suggested weakness and sickness, other scholars take the word \"porphyria\" literally, and suggest that the seductress embodies a disease, and that the persona's killing of her is a sign of his recovery. Porphyria, which usually involved delusional madness and death, was classified several years before the poem's publication; Browning, who had an avid interest in such pathologies, may well have been aware of the new disease, and used it in this way to express his knowledge.\n\nMuch has been made of the final line: \"And yet, God has not said a word!\" Possibly, the speaker seeks divine condonement for the murder. He may believe God has said nothing because He is satisfied with his actions. God may be satisfied because: He recognises that the persona's crime is the only way to keep Porphyria pure; or, because He doesn't think her life and death are important compared to the persona's. The persona may also be waiting in vain for some sign of God's approval. Alternatively, the line may represent his feelings of emptiness in the wake of his violence; Porphyria is gone, quiet descends, and he's alone. The persona may also be schizophrenic; he may be listening for a voice in his head, which he mistakes for the voice of God. It has also been postulated that this is Browning's statement of \"God's silence,\" in which neither good nor bad acts are immediately recompensed by the deity.\n\nThe final line may also register the persona's sense of guilt over his crime. Despite his elaborate justifications for his act, he has, in fact, committed murder, and he expects God to punish him – or, at least, to take notice. The persona is surprised, perhaps a little uneasy, at God's continued silence.\n\nThe mirrored effect produced by Porphyria's modelling of the persona in the first half, and the persona's reciprocal modelling of her after strangulation is indicative of a popular Victorian art form in which humans were used as art to recreate actual paintings. This is indicative of the allegorical content of \"Porphyria's Lover\" in which both characters imitate the process of artistic creation: when art is created or published, it is dead and forever unchanging. In the last few lines of the poem, Porphyria is manipulated in much the same way as the speaker was in the first few lines of the poem. Tennyson shares similar ideas in \"The Lady of Shalott\", as do other Victorian authors who contribute to the popular conversation about the artistic processes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3604324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3604324", "title": "Quechquemitl", "text": "Quechquemitl\n\nThe quechquemitl (also spelled quezquemitl) is a garment which has been worn by certain indigenous ethnicities in Mexico since the pre Hispanic period. It usually consists of two pieces of rectangular cloth, often woven by hand, which is sewn together to form a poncho or shawl like garment, which is usually worn hanging off the shoulders. It can be of various cloths, often with intricate weaves and highly decorated, most often with embroidery. In the pre Hispanic period only women of high social rank could wear it. Since the colonial period, it has been adopted by various peoples, mostly living in central Mexico for everyday wear, festival and rituals, but its use has declined.\n\nIt has been variously described as a shawl, a cape and a triangular cloth. It is not really any of these although when worn points front and back it has a triangular appearance. Most quechquemitls are two pieces of rectangular cloth sewn together and most often worn off the shoulders, covering the upper body of women. Most have points which can hang down the front and back or over the arms. Quechquemitls are generally worn with various other garments such as a wraparound skirt tied with a sash, huipil and blouse. The size of the quechquemitl depends on how it is to be worn as well as its relation to other pieces of clothing. Its effect on the overall outfit is determined on this relationship, rather than standing along as a long huipil can. The garment is used for everyday wear, social and ritual occasions.\n\nThe garment is found mostly in central Mexico among indigenous women such as the Huastecs, Nahuas, Tepehuas, Otomis, Totonacs, Mazahuas, Pames and Huichols in states such as Nayarit, Jalisco, Querétaro, the State of Mexico, Hidalgo, Puebla and Veracruz. It has also been seen in some other areas such as the Uruapan area in Michoacán, and parts of Morelos, Guerrero and Oaxaca. While it used to be worn as the only upper garment, this practice has almost entirely disappeared, and today it is usually worn over a blouse for decoration or warmth. However, the popularity of highly decorated blouses has led to a diminishing of the quechquemitl. Only among the Totonacs, Otomis and Nahuas is the garment widely used, but even with these it is mostly found on older women. Younger women from the same communities prefer commercial blouses and shirts, reserving the quechquemitl for market days and festivals.\n\nIn some areas, the quechquemitl is also worn as a head covering. Among the Tepehuas in Huehuetla, Hidalgo, this kind of quechquemitl is made with a fine gauze.\n\nPeoples noted for the making of quechquemilts include the Huastecs, the Nahuas, the Tepehuas, the Huichols and the Otomis and the decoration of the garment can identify from which group it comes. However, the climate of the region it is made also has an effect such as the use of wool in colder areas. There is evidence that a number of motifs dates back to the pre Hispanic period. Others were adopted after the Spanish conquest, and a number are hard to date as they show both European and indigenous influence. Ancient designs include fretwork, a symbol for Quetzalcoatl, the scepter of Quetzalcoatl, related to Ursa Major, an “S” form called an ilhuitl and a cross with branches of equal length which represents the cardinal directions. Colors have symbolic meaning such as yellow for east. One European element is a stylized vase with flowers, but the double headed eagle, can be of either indigenous or European origin. The Huastecs in Tancanhuitz de Santos, San Luis Potosí and the Huichols in Jalisco and Nayarit make their quechquemitls in an undyed cotton, which is heavily embroidered with flowers and animals in various colors. The Nahuas of San Francisco Chapantla, Hidalgo and Hueyapan, Puebla decorate their huipils with fretwork, animals and flowers. Among the Huastecs the garment is usually of undyed cotton which is heavily embroidered.\n\nLike other indigenous garments, the quechquemitl is made from uncut pieces of cloths as they come off the loom. Quechquemitl designs are achieved through weaving (fiber, color, structure), surface ornamentation (usually embroidery) and finishes applied to the seams and edges. Various kinds of weaves are done for quechquemitls includes gauze, seersucker, brocade and curved or shaped weaving. The finest gauze pieces are from the Sierra Norte de Puebla, with very complex arrangements of heddles, often with six used and as many as twenty have been noted. These gauze weavings tend to be more complex than those used for huipils. Some appear as a checkerboard pattern. Seersucker is used by adding commercial threads in stripes along with the handspun threads. The commercial threads do not shrink when washed and the puckering effect is created. Weft brocade is a decorative technique where heavier threads are introduced in the weft to create patterns. A looped brocade is also created by tugging on these weft threads to raise them. These brocades are often mistaken as embroidery in both Mexican and Guatemalan textiles. The curved weaving technique is particularly complicated and unique. Part of the warp is of white cotton and part a colored wool, either red or pink. The wool warp is much longer than the cotton at a point in the weaving producing warp faced fabric. The wool warp is cult and used as weft in a weft faced band, given the look of a colored border. The curvature is designed to fall on the shoulders of the wearer. This type of garment can be found in the Sierra Norte de Puebla region.\n\nThere are three methods of joining the pieces of cloth. The first uses two rectangles of cloth with the narrow end of each joined to the long side of the other. This creates a warped loop whose points can be worn front/back or over the shoulders. Another is made with one long rectangle which is folded in half for a square look. The fold goes over one arm the edges going over the other arm are partially sewn, leaving space for the head to pass. A variation on this is two squares of fabric with the arm/shoulder seams sewn, leaving a neck opening. Another variation with is rare is made from a single rectangle from which a smaller rectangle has been cut. Then folded over, the two narrowest edges are sewn. It is worn with points hanging off the shoulders.\n\nThe name “quechquemitl” (sometimes spelled quesquemitl, quezquemitl or quexquemitl) comes from Nahuatl and means “neck garment” (quechtli = neck and tlaquemitl = garment) . It has other names in other indigenous languages such as thayemlaab among the Huastecs.\n\nThe garment has pre Hispanic origins and has been worn by some indigenous women for about 2,000 years. It is most likely that the garment originated with the Totonacs on the Gulf coast. It was brought to the Mexican highlands by the Otomis. In the pre Hispanic era, the quechquemitl was worn with huipil and a wrap around skirt, generally only for special occasions and by high-ranking women. It may even have been reserved for use by goddesses and those portraying them in ritual in the Aztec era. In this era, it was particularly associated with fertility goddesses possibly due to the origins of the garment in the Gulf Coast region and its fertility. These garments when worn by the nobility were made of cotton, sometimes with rabbit fur or feathers woven in for warmth and/or decoration. There was another variation in which the cloth was twisted before the edges sewn, resulting in a shape that conformed closer to the body. The name of Mixtec princesses often had the word “quechquemitl”. The garments were woven on backstrap looms, which can still be seen today, and dyed with natural colorings such as cochineal, indigo and other plants, animals and minerals.\n\nAfter the Spanish conquest, the quechquemitl was adopted by all indigenous women. The garment was then worn alone, exposing the midriff or over a huipil. However, today neither of these uses are common. Treadle looms and spinning wheels were also introduced and well as sheep producing wool.\n\nToday, the quechquemitl is still worn but its use has diminished. However, it remains important in Mexican culture. Frida Kahlo, who was known for her wearing of Mexican indigenous clothing, had quechquemetls, including one from Puebla with symbols related to fertility which are no longer made. There have been conferences and other academic events devoted to the garment, such as a CONACULTA sponsored conference at the Museo Nacional de Antropología . and a conference on its use in Nahua and Huastec identities at the Centro de las Artes in San Luis Potosí.\n"}
{"id": "3447151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3447151", "title": "Scientific demonstration", "text": "Scientific demonstration\n\nA scientific demonstration is a scientific experiment carried out for the purposes of demonstrating scientific principles, rather than for hypothesis testing or knowledge gathering (although they may originally have been carried out for these purposes).\n\nMost scientific demonstrations are simple laboratory demonstrations intended to demonstrate physical principles, often in a surprising or entertaining way. They are carried out in schools and universities, and sometimes in public demonstrations in popular science lectures and TV programs aimed at the general public. Many scientific demonstrations are chosen for their combination of educational merit and entertainment value, which is often provided by dramatic phenomena such as explosions. \n\nPublic scientific demonstrations were a common occurrence in the Age of Enlightenment, and have long been a feature of the British Royal Institution Christmas Lectures, which date back to 1825. In the television era, scientific demonstrations have featured in science-related entertainment shows such as \"MythBusters\" and \"\".\n\nSome famous scientific demonstrations include:\n\n\nNote: many scientific demonstrations are potentially dangerous, and should not be attempted without considerable laboratory experience and appropriate safety precautions. Many older well-known scientific demonstrations, once mainstays of science education, are now effectively impossible to demonstrate to an audience without breaking health and safety laws. Some older demonstrations, such as allowing the audience to play with liquid mercury, are sufficiently dangerous that they should not be attempted by anyone under any circumstances.\n\n"}
{"id": "37481041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37481041", "title": "Shiloh (franchise)", "text": "Shiloh (franchise)\n\nShiloh is a media franchise that includes four novels and three films.\n\n\"Shiloh\" is a Newbery Medal-winning children's novel by Phyllis Reynolds Naylor published in 1991. The 65th book by Naylor, it is the first in a trilogy about a young boy and the title character, an abused dog. Naylor decided to write \"Shiloh\" after an emotionally taxing experience in West Virginia where she encountered an abused dog.\n\nNarrator and protagonist Marty Preston lives in the hills of Friendly, West Virginia. After finding an abused beagle owned by his brutal neighbor Judd Travers, Marty defies his society's standards of not meddling with each other's business. Marty resolves to steal and hide the dog, naming him Shiloh and fabricating a web of lies to keep his secret. After his theft is discovered, Marty discovers Judd shooting a deer out of season and blackmails him into selling Shiloh to him. Because he lacks the money to buy Shiloh, Marty resolutely works for Judd doing numerous chores.\n\nPrimarily a \"Bildungsroman\" and adventure novel, the novel depicts the emotional tribulations and maturing of an 11-year-old boy. Some themes of the novel are ethics, consequentialism, religion and morality, and animal–human relationships. Marty learns that morality is confounding and must choose between two unpalatable choices: rescuing the abused Shiloh through stealing and lying and allowing Judd to keep abusing Shiloh.\n\nReviewers generally gave positive reviews of the book and were impressed by the novel's suspense and vernacular language. In addition to the Newbery Medal, \"Shiloh\" has received several state awards voted upon by children, including the Sequoyah Children's Book Award, the Mark Twain Readers Award, and the William Allen White Children's Book Award.\n\n\"Shiloh Season\" was published in 1996. In \"Shiloh Season\", Naylor renews the strife by restoring Judd's hostility and aggravating it with a bout of drinking issues. Marty fears Judd will take back Shiloh and be faithless to the deal they made. Whereas in \"Shiloh\" Marty confronts the confusing and ambiguous concept of morality, in \"Shiloh Season\" he must face the notion of wickedness.\n\n\"Saving Shiloh\" was published in 1997. Marty's parents persuade Marty that people who have wronged are worthy of forgiveness. In the midst of several robberies and a murder, the community hastily faults Judd. Willing to grant Judd a second chance, Marty attempts to help him. Meanwhile, Marty and his family must face the intricacies of life such as death, hostility, and sibling rivalry.\n\n\"A Shiloh Christmas\" was published in 2015.\n\n\"Shiloh\" is a Family/Drama film produced and directed by Dale Rosenbloom in 1996. It was shown at the Heartland Film Festival in 1996, but its general release came on April 27, 1997.\n\n\"Shiloh 2: Shiloh Season\" is a 1999 family/drama film about a boy trying to defend his dog from a man who is constantly under the influence.\n\n\"Saving Shiloh\" is a family movie produced in 2006. The film is rated PG for some thematic elements and peril.\n"}
{"id": "7757610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7757610", "title": "Survivance", "text": "Survivance\n\nSurvivance is a critical term in Native American studies.\n\nSurvivance was originally a legal term, but fell out of use in the 18th century. The word was subsequently utilized in the 20th century by francophone Canadians as \"La Survivance,\" and also employed by the French theorist Jacques Derrida to denote a spectral existence that would be neither life nor death.\n\nIt was first employed in the context of Native American Studies by the Anishinaabe cultural theorist Gerald Vizenor, in his book \"Manifest Manners: Narratives on Postindian Survivance\". There he explains that \"Survivance is an active sense of presence, the continuance of native stories, not a mere reaction, or a survivable name. Native survivance stories are renunciations of dominance, tragedy and victimry\". Vizenor makes the term, which is deliberately imprecise, the cornerstone of his analysis of contemporary Native American literature, culture and politics. Several critics (e.g. Alan Velie) have analysed the term as a portmanteau of \"survival and endurance,\" and others (e.g. Jace Weaver) have read it as a portmanteau of \"survival + resistance,\" but there does not seem to be any evidence that Vizenor had such a specific combination in mind. Rather, by changing the suffix from -\"al\" to -\"ance\", he insists on an active survival, in which contemporary Native American peoples go beyond merely subsisting in the ruins of tribal cultures to actively inheriting and refashioning those cultures for the postmodern age. The Cherokee-descent poet Diane Glancy demonstrates the ways that an imprecise term can inspire creativity by reconfiguring it: \"Poetry is rebound. A turn of writing. (Sur)vivance: Sur - a survival outside survival. Vivance - the vitality of it.\"\n\nVizenor frequently defines \"survivance\" in opposition to \"victimry,\" as some commentators note. Karl Kroeber writes that Vizenor's \"work aims to repair a peculiarly vicious consequence of genocidal attacks on native of the Americas: an inducing in them of their destroyers' view that they are mere survivors. By accepting this white definition of themselves as victims, natives complete psychologically the not-quite-entirely-successful physical genocide.\" Similarly, Joe Lockard calls it \"the condition of self-reliant or communal survival without the social or personal indulgence of victimization.\"\n\nThe word has become a term of art in contemporary Native American studies, used far beyond the context of Vizenor's own work. It is now also an interactive video game, and is used in captions for the National Museum of the American Indian, as well as being employed numerous times in titles of books and academic articles.\n"}
{"id": "27584254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27584254", "title": "The Brahmin and the Mongoose", "text": "The Brahmin and the Mongoose\n\nThe Brahmin and the Mongoose (or The Brahmin's Wife and the Mongoose) is a folktale from India, and \"one of the world's most travelled tales\". It describes the rash killing of a loyal animal, and thus warns against hasty action. The story underlies certain legends in the West, such as that of Llywelyn and his dog Gelert in Wales, or that of Saint Guinefort in France. It is classified as Aarne-Thompson type 178A.\n\nThe original version from the Panchatantra in Sanskrit goes as follows (translation from ):\nIn Western variants of the story, other animals take the place of the mongoose, most often a dog. It is also found in other versions as a weasel, cat (in Persia), bear, or lion, and the snake is sometimes replaced with a wolf (in Wales). The essence of the story, however, remains the same. Similarly, variants of the story sometimes have the man, instead of his wife, killing the loyal animal.\n\nThe story is sometimes placed within a frame story, where a saviour stands mistakenly accused and narrates this story, thereby preventing his own death.\n\nThe story was first studied in 1859 by Theodor Benfey, the pioneer of comparative literature, when he compared the versions in India, the Middle East and Europe.In 1884, W. A. Clouston showed how it had reached Wales.\nMurray B. Emeneau considers the migration of this story, through its steps from India to Wales, as \"one of the best authenticated cases of such diffusions of folk-tales\". It is classified as Aarne-Thompson type 178A. \n\nThe story occurs in all versions of the Panchatantra, as well as the later Sanskrit works Hitopadesha and the Kathasaritsagara.\nIt also occurs in most of the languages of India (and South Asia) where it is extremely familiar.\nFor instance, in the South Indian state of Karnataka, the story occurs as a proverb in inscriptions, as a sculpture in a temple, in narratives of travelling storytellers and singers, and in film.\nSimilarly, the Tamil epic \"Silappatikaram\" recalls the story simply by its name.\n\nLike the rest of the Panchatantra, in its westward migration it travelled from Sanskrit to Arabic (as \"Kalila wa Dimna\"), Persian, Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Old French, and eventually into all the major languages of Europe (as \"The Fables of Pilpay\" or \"Bidpai\"), ranging from Russian to Gaelic to English. \nIn its eastward migration, it appears in Chinese (ten versions, including in a redaction of the Vinaya Pitaka), and over a wide region from Mongolia to Malaysia.\nIt is also the only story found in all recensions of the Panchatantra, all versions of the 'Book of Sindibad' (not Sindbad),\nand all versions of 'The Seven Sages of Rome'.\n\nIt is also found in Mexico and the United States. Blackburn observes that the fable is not a dead tradition and is still current, as a Belgian newspaper reported it as an anecdote about a man who left his son and dog in a shopping trolley in his car.\n\nThe motif also occurs, with a happy ending, in the Disney film \"Lady and the Tramp\" (1955).\n\nThe story is often used in culture as an exemplum cautioning against hasty action. In addition, it also serves as shorthand for sin, regret and grief.\n\nIn Welsh it became the story of the nobleman Llywelyn who kills his loyal dog, Gelert. It was later interpreted as a legend about a true event, and small shrines to the dog exist in Wales (such as in the village of Beddgelert, \"Gelert's grave\"). In France a similar metamorphosis took larger proportions, and the story became the cult of Saint Guinefort (a dog), which was popular until the 1930s.\n\nBlackburn points out that although in the many literary versions it is the man who kills the mongoose, in most \"oral\" versions (and even the literary version quoted above), it is the woman who does so. Further, \"both\" literary and oral versions place the woman at the centre of the story, emphasizing her maternal feelings toward the animal, her mixture of love and fear, and her grief at its death. Thus he asserts that \"the tale is a drama enacted between a mother and her son\" and proposes some interpretations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "372508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372508", "title": "The Church Lady", "text": "The Church Lady\n\nEnid Strict, better known as The Church Lady, is a recurring character from a series of sketches on the American television show, \"Saturday Night Live\", that appeared from 1986 to 1990, and again in 1996, 2000, 2011, and 2016. She also appeared on \"The Dana Carvey Show\" in March 1996, reading a Top Ten List, \"New Titles for Princess Diana.\"\n\nCreated and played by Dana Carvey, The Church Lady is a mature woman named “Enid Strict,” who is the uptight, smug and pious host of her own talk show, \"Church Chat.\" Enid is a spoof of “holier-than-thou” Christian churchgoers. On her show (which only lasts the duration of the sketch itself) she has multiple guests, usually celebrities of the time played by other cast members of \"SNL\" or by the actual celebrities themselves (usually whoever is guest-hosting that week's \"SNL\" episode, appearing as themselves), who appear to be interviewed by her. However, the interviews are only a guise for her to call the celebrity guests out on their various alleged sins (which are often publicly known news events of the day). They initially receive sarcastic praises from her, until the interview eventually degrades into a tirade against their apparent lack of piety and their secular lifestyles, culminating with her judgmental admonishments and damnation. She often takes others to task for following the desires of their “naughty parts.”\n\nThe Church Lady is known for always wearing a matching blue and purple sweater/dress set, visible knee-high stockings, and a pair of cat's eye horn-rimmed glasses. She was known for the catchphrases, “Well, isn't that \"SPE-CIAL\"?!”, \"How \"con-VEEN-ient\"!\", and “Could it be...\"SATAN?\"” (in later years, the latter would always end with a haunting echo). When sufficiently satisfied with herself, she would mug for the camera, while twitching the corners of her mouth from one side to the other for an indefinite length of time. She also gave advice in response to letters she ostensibly received. Furthermore, whenever she felt that she had demonstrated her superiority, she would do her \"Superior dance\" in which she would rhythmically strut to organ music (played by an organist named Pearl, who was played by musical director Cheryl Hardwick) in front of her alleged inferiors.\n\nCarvey said he based the character on women he knew from his church growing up, who would keep track of his and others' attendance. The Church Lady became immediately recognizable and played an important role in \"SNL\"s resurgence in the mid-1980s. She made numerous appearances on \"SNL;\" Nora Dunn recalled that \"everybody loved that character and [Carvey] was pressured to do it so, so often,\" and The Church Lady reappeared even after Carvey's departure from the show as a regular cast member. She was never incorporated into a feature-length film, however, as many of \"SNL\"'s other recurring characters were.\n\nDana Carvey recalls that he was prompted by executive producer Lorne Michaels to introduce the character (when it was still in \"SNL\" rehearsals) at a Neil Young concert at Madison Square Garden, which Church Lady interrupted, fussing and fuming: \"What are we \"doing\" here? What's all this noise?\"\n\nDuring the first season Dana Carvey appeared as a cast regular on \"Saturday Night Live\", Joe Montana and Walter Payton co-hosted the show and both appeared in a Church Lady skit for a game of football with Church Lady. Montana throws a touchdown pass to Church Lady after she distracted Payton (who was playing defense against her) and hid in the audience. At the end of the sketch, all three did the \"superior dance.\"\n\nA classic moment was in March 1987 when she interviewed Jim and Tammy Faye Bakker (played by Phil Hartman and Jan Hooks) at the height of the sex scandal involving Jim Bakker and Jessica Hahn. During the show the televangelists begged for donations, and a mascara-dripping Tammy Faye recounted her experience with \"demonic raisins.\"\n\nAnother notable moment in October 1987 featured actor Sean Penn, playing himself as a guest on the show. During the interview, the Church Lady (who calls him \"Sin,\" and then quickly corrects her \"mistake\") makes numerous references to his then-wife Madonna, and her overt sexuality, claiming Madonna \"doesn't quite live up to her namesake.\" The more she goes on about his wife's \"bulbous buttocks gyrating\" and her displaying of her \"chestal area,\" the more angered Penn becomes, until he eventually throws a punch, hitting her directly in the nose. Carvey recalls that he was genuinely scared because Penn (who was well known for losing his temper) came dangerously close to actually hitting him.\n\nJan Hooks would appear again on the sketch in December 1987, this time playing Jessica Hahn, of whom the Church Lady said in a sarcastic tone \"Oh, sit right down, Jessie. Here we are not like those other talk shows that fawn all over you. No, siree!\" Jessica Hahn claims that she is tired of degradation, to which the Church Lady produces the \"Playboy\" for which she posed (only the cover is shown). Jessica Hahn says that that type of degradation had her authorization and \"I am free to degrade myself only how I see fit! For once Jessica Hahn is in control of her life!\" and then goes on to say \"Being used and degraded in a hotel room in Florida was not my decision. Being used and degraded in the pages of this magazine, that was my decision. I am in control of being used and degraded!\"\n\nThough the sketch routinely mocked popular celebrity scandals, in 1989, guest host Rob Lowe managed to avoid having his various sex scandals of the day (including the leaking of a sex tape involving the actor) mentioned per a special deal he cut with the Church Lady. In return for her silence on his various sex scandals, Rob Lowe submitted to corporal punishment at the end of the interview. However, Rob Lowe began to enjoy being spanked by the Church Lady, who took this as a sign that Satan had possessed Lowe's butt and began screaming for Satan to leave the actor's body.\n\nAnother sketch in February 1990 found child actor Fred Savage playing the Church Lady's niece, Enid. Savage was dressed in a miniature version of Church Lady's outfit and glasses, and co-spoke all of the familiar admonishing catchphrases, as well as performing the \"Superior Dance\" at the beginning of the sketch. In the same sketch was a visit from Donald Trump (as played by Phil Hartman), right after his legendary divorce. The Church Lady scolded him and his \"Jezebel,\" to which Trump responded by frankly telling her that he \"could buy and sell this freak show, or dog and pony act, or whatever.\" The Church Lady responded that \"if you could do that then Enid is just some little boy in a dress.\"\n\nIn a teaser trailer for the 1990 film \"Opportunity Knocks\" (available on that film's DVD), Church Lady interrupts, warning viewers not to see the film and is punched in the face and knocked to the floor by Dana Carvey who introduces himself. Church Lady retaliates and the fight continues offscreen as the trailer ends.\n\nAnother notable sketch, in October 2000, featured The Church Lady interviewing Anne Heche (played by Chris Kattan), with the Church Lady teasing Anne about her bisexuality by offering her a snack and giving her the choice between a \"wiener\" and a \"taco\" (implying a choice between two obvious body parts) and referring to a bisexual as someone who \"reaches down the front of somebody's pants and they're satisfied with whatever they find.\"\n\nSometimes the Church Lady was accompanied by a character known as \"Minister Bob,\" played by Chevy Chase. He seemed to be the only person the Church Lady admired. During a church picnic an inebriated woman interrupted the gathering, shocking all the old ladies present, and saying how the Church Lady acts so high and mighty but is out of touch with the problems of people in everyday life. Minister Bob then acts more down to earth than the Church Lady, saying it is the responsibility of a pastor to deal with people with problems. When he seems to be leading the woman into why problem drinking is a bad idea, he ends with saying \"...because of SATAN!\", and joins the Church Lady in her Superior dance.\n\nToward the end of the character's run, a parody sketch of the film \"Misery\" aired in which Dana Carvey is doing a stand-up tour in Colorado, and announces to the audience this is a special day as it is the last time he will ever do a Church Lady sketch. He is then driving in a snowstorm with Jon Lovitz, where Carvey says it was about time to put the Church Lady to rest and not make it a running gag. Lovitz (who played Satan in a December 1988 Church Lady sketch) pathetically asks if he can now play her (Lovitz' stalled career was a running joke on \"SNL\" the season after his official departure), but is interrupted by heavy snow flurries crushing the car. Carvey is rescued by guest star Roseanne Barr, playing the Church Lady's disturbingly obsessed Number One Fan, who is so gleeful at rescuing Carvey and buys him things such as \"orthopedic shoes, just like the Church Lady wears!\" However, she becomes furious when she reads a comedy review saying Carvey has stopped doing the Church Lady, and intends to hold him until he promises to resume playing her. Reciting the lines was not good enough either, as Roseanne holds Carvey at gunpoint forcing him to wear the Church Lady wig and get her facial expressions and voice just right. Lorne Michaels tries to find the missing Carvey, but becomes increasingly uninterested, deciding instead to promote the \"Makin' Copies\" character, played by Rob Schneider. The skit ends with Carvey and Roseanne in a climactic fight scene, but Roseanne comically keeps getting back up. She and then Carvey are shot by the still-alive Jon Lovitz, who claims the Church Lady character for himself.\n\nThe Church Lady appeared on ABC's The Dana Carvey Show as part of a larger sketch where a viewer letter asked whether Dana Carvey's \"SNL\" characters were to appear on the show. The sketch responded by claiming that ABC used Disney's high-profile lawyers to engage NBC in a hostile takeover, gaining the rights to Carvey's \"SNL\" characters, as well as some of the IPs of David Letterman's show on CBS. It then cuts to the Church Lady reading David Letterman's Top Ten List.\n\nCarvey reprised the character and sketch when he hosted the show in its 36th season, the Church Lady interviewing \"the Kardashian sisters\", attempting to exorcise \"Snooki\", and notably becoming enraptured and aroused by Justin Bieber before being settled down by God.\n\nIn 2016, The Church Lady was the opening skit on May 7 (season 41, episode 19) with Ted Cruz (Taran Killam) and Donald Trump (Darrell Hammond) as her guests. Cruz, who had been recently called \"Lucifer in the flesh\" by John Boehner, reappeared mid sketch as the Devil after The Church Lady called Trump \"an orange mannequin\". She also appeared as a guest on the show's Weekend Update segment a few days before the November 2016 election, describing the election as a choice between \"a bitter, female android from the ‘90s... or a riverboat gambler with a big tummy and an orange head”.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41599803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41599803", "title": "The Hotwives", "text": "The Hotwives\n\nThe Hotwives is an American sitcom that premiered on July 15, 2014, on the video streaming website Hulu. Developed by Paramount Digital Entertainment as a parody of \"The Real Housewives\" reality television franchise broadcast on Bravo, the first season follows the lives of several fictional women residing in Orlando, Florida. The series' seven hotwives are inspired by several housewives that have been featured on installments of \"The Real Housewives\".\n\nSeason two, following a new group of ladies in Las Vegas, premiered on August 18, 2015.\n\nThe series was created by Dannah Phirman and Danielle Schneider. Paul Scheer and Jonathan Stern serve as executive producers. It is part of Hulu's initiative to produce original scripted programming. The show is a scripted parody of the reality television franchise \"The Real Housewives\" on Bravo. The reality TV parody series depicts the purportedly exclusive and glamorous world of \"hot housewives\" from different cities each season, following the women as they fight over everything from their love of shoes, plastic surgery, and the pursuit of spending all of their husbands' money.\n\nThe first season (\"The Hotwives of Orlando\") focused on \"Orlando Hotwives\" Tawny St. John (portrayed by Casey Wilson), Shauna Maducci (Danielle Schneider), Phe Phe Reed (Tymberlee Hill), Veronica Von Vandervon (Andrea Savage), Crystal Simmons (Angela Kinsey), and Amanda Simmons (Kristen Schaal).\n\nThe second season (\"The Hotwives of Las Vegas\") focuses on \"Vegas Hotwives\" Denise Funt (Schneider), Leona Carpeze (Dannah Phirman), Jenfer Beudon (Wilson), Ivanka Silversan (Savage), Callie Silversan (Erinn Hayes), \"First Lady\" Stephanie (Kinsey), and Hill reprising her role as Phe Phe Reed, now newly relocated to Las Vegas.\n\n\n\nOther guest appearances have included \"Weird Al\" Yankovic, Kate Walsh, Rich Fulcher, Melissa Rauch, Kulap Vilaysack, Lauren Lapkus, and Horatio Sanz.\n\n\n\n\nOther guest appearances included \"Weird Al\" Yankovic, Thomas Lennon, Jackie Siegel, Rob Huebel, June Diane Raphael, Ian Roberts, Dan Bucatinsky, Seth Morris, and Lisa Rinna.\n\nThe entire cast represent members of the \"Real Housewives\" series.\n\n\nCo-creator Dannah Phirman also recurs as Alli, based on \"friend of the Real Housewives\" Dana Wilkey from \"The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills\".\n\n\nIn addition, secondary character Ace (Keegan-Michael Key) is based on \"The Real Housewives of Orange County\"s Slade Smiley, who also romanced two housewives.\n\nSeason one (\"The Hotwives of Orlando\") was released in its entirety on July 15, 2014, on Hulu. The Pop channel began airing season one on television in January 2015. Season One was made available on Netflix in the UK and Ireland on September 12, 2015.\n\nSeason two's (\"The Hotwives of Las Vegas\") episodes released weekly, beginning August 18, 2015.\nIn France, the series is broadcast on \"Canal+Series\"\n\nSeason one (\"The Hotwives of Orlando\") was released on DVD on May 12, 2015. The DVD release contains all 7 episodes of its first season.\n\n"}
{"id": "47899999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47899999", "title": "The Phoinix: Age of Demigods", "text": "The Phoinix: Age of Demigods\n\nThe Phoinix: Age of Demigods, often shortened to The Phoinix, is a young adult epic-fantasy novel created by S. L. Mancuso. This is her debut novel and book one in a series of four novels published in July 2015. The second book in The Phoinix series in entitled The Phoinix: The Light of Albion. It converges six different polytheistic religions into one epic story by exploring the mysticism and powers of the gods shown in Greek, Norse, Roman, , Phoenician, and Celtic mythologies. It contains beloved familiar stories while revealing new exciting tales that often go untold.\n\nS. L. Mancuso has stated that she pulls inspiration from her friends, family, and favorite T.V. shows/movies/books. Influential media includes Supernatural, The Highlander franchise, and Lord of the Rings.\n\nFirst novel in the four-part series is set in the ancient civilizations of Ancient Greece and Ancient Cymru. The story follows a young Etruscan princess that has been plagued by nightmares every year on the night of her birthday when a full Blood-Moon rises. She is then swept away from her palace and the protection of her parents by her long time friend, Eoghan MacBeatha, a Druid apprentice. Eoghan steals the princess away from her homeland after a threat has stormed the palace, promising to kill her parents, Remus and Alina. Three allies, Lysandros, Brian, and Cailean, step in to save Remus and Alina from the attack, but end up having to say goodbye to a dear friend before setting off on a quest to find Breanna and Eoghan.\n\nThe book continues on a three quest adventure until the quests converge into an epic battle for survival among demigods, gods, and an old, resurrected threat the gods created to end war, Elpis, The Queen. Elpis has long been dead, destroyed by her husband, Eversor, under a spell from the gods. Upon her death The Power that lived in her blood escaped destruction and sought refuge in Etruria and Cymru until it could find its true vessel, Breanna, was ready to accept it. Eversor hunts Bre and her family in order to steal The Power and resurrect Elpis from the dead.\n\nThrough bloody carnage, Eversor manages to restore Elpis and half her powers. It is then the gods beg for Breanna's and her followers' protection. After realizing that the horrifying Blood-Moon nightmares were actually Elpis' memories reaching out to her, Bre doubts the intentions of the gods and wonders if they will try to destroy her like they did Elpis.\n\nBreanna is a young girl with an old destiny that is torn between power and survival.\n\n"}
{"id": "1145273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1145273", "title": "Tsunade", "text": "Tsunade\n\nTsunade (綱手), featured in the Japanese folktale \"Jiraiya Gōketsu Monogatari\" (児雷也豪傑物語, \"The tale of the gallant Jiraiya\"), was the friend/wife of the ninja Jiraiya. She mastered slug magic and was able to summon an enormous snail or turn into one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "719581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=719581", "title": "Vega (Street Fighter)", "text": "Vega (Street Fighter)\n\nVega, also known as Balrog, is a fictional character from the \"Street Fighter\" fighting game series by Capcom. Vega is a mask-wearing, claw-wielding fighter from Spain who uses a personal fighting style combining Japanese ninjutsu and Spanish bullfighting, earning him the nickname of \"Spanish Ninja\".\n\nVega first appears in the original \"Street Fighter II\" in 1991 as the second of four boss opponents the player faces at the end of the single-player mode, a group known as the Four Devas or Grand Masters. From \"\" (the second version of the game) onwards, Vega and the other three boss characters, became playable. He reappears as a playable character in \"Street Fighter Alpha 3\", \"Street Fighter EX2\" and \"EX3\", the \"Capcom vs. SNK\" series, , \"Street Fighter IV\", \"Super Street Fighter IV\", \"Street Fighter X Tekken\", \"Ultra Street Fighter IV\", and \"Street Fighter V\".\n\nVega was designed by Akira Yasuda with the premise of the original \"Street Fighter\"'s Geki character in mind, and was initially conceived as a brief sketch of a masked man in a ripped shirt with long, frizzy hair. As development progressed the design evolved into a large, unarmed man, retaining the mask and dressed as a matador. The design was changed again, revolving around the concept of a foreign soldier with a cross on his vest and armed with a broadsword, while still retaining the mask. This design was eventually replaced in turn with another concept, a masked ninja in a bodysuit armed with a long metal claw on his right hand. Ultimately the character's finalized appearance was a culmination of all of these, incorporating various aspects of each into the finished design.\n\nWhen the original \"Street Fighter II\" was being localized for the English language market, Capcom's North American marketing staff felt that the name of the game's final boss, Vega, did not sound threatening enough to North American audiences, and was hence better suited for the bullfighter, as Vega is by itself a Spanish surname. Plus, afraid of a lawsuit from American boxer Mike Tyson (whose name and appearance was very similar to the game's first boss), they felt inclined to change the name of this character as well. As a result, Claw's name was changed from Balrog to Vega for English-language appearances, while original Vega (Dictator) became M.Bison and original M.Bison (the boxer) became Balrog.\n\nVega is one of the few \"Street Fighter\" characters to constantly carry a weapon, a \"tekkō kagi\", and the only character to do so in \"Street Fighter II\". This claw is useful for slashing attacks, yet curved in the end to prevent him from lethally stabbing his opponents. This claw gives him a very long range compared to most characters. It is the same type of weapon worn by Geki in the original \"Street Fighter\", though longer.\n\nObsessively narcissistic and vain, Vega considers himself the epitome of beauty and perfection. As such, he wears his expressionless mask not to conceal his identity, but to protect his face from scarring or bruising during battle; in fact, Vega removes it after winning fights, as well as in certain character-select images.\n\nVega wears murrey and yellow ceremonial trousers, a red sash, loafers, and white leggings of a matador, suggesting his involvement with bullfighting. This decorative garb also offers matadors ease of movement, and is ideal for Vega's acrobatic maneuvers.\n\nDepending on the games' color palettes, Vega has brown or blonde hair. In the various games in the \"Street Fighter II\" series, Vega's game sprite and character select profile shot depict him with brown hair, while his ending in \"Street Fighter II': Champion Edition\" and \"Super Street Fighter II\" depict him with blonde hair. In \"Street Fighter EX2\" and \"Street Fighter Alpha 3\", Vega is depicted with blonde hair in all iterations. His tattoos consist of a purple snake on his chest and two purple bands which circle his arm. In \"Capcom vs. SNK 2\", in a victory pose, Vega will hold his arm out towards the opponent, with the tattoo coming to life and hissing at it. In the mobile puzzle game \"Street Fighter: Puzzle Spirits\", he appears as a super-deformed character.\n\nVega's backstory reveals that he was born to a noble family in Spain. As he matured, Vega studied bullfighting, a Spanish cultural tradition. He later traveled to Japan to learn ninjutsu, a style that he believed would mesh well with his natural grace and agility. Returning home, Vega combined bullfighting with ninjutsu and entered an underground cage fighting circuit, where he quickly became one of the best. \n\nFor undisclosed reasons, his family's status dwindled, causing his mother to remarry for financial security. Vega's new stepfather, incensed that his wife only valued him for his money, murdered her right in front of Vega, who killed him in return. The incident warped his mind and caused him to develop a dual personality: suave nobleman by day, sadistic masked murderer by night. Brandishing a three-pronged, razor sharp claw gauntlet, Vega embarked on many murderous rampages, taking great pleasure in mutilating his victims, especially those he perceived as \"ugly\". The murder of his mother caused him to view \"beauty\" as a trait of heroism and strength, whereas \"ugliness\" represented cowardice and evil. Eventually, Vega's insatiable bloodlust and brutal fighting skills caught the attention of criminal leader M. Bison, who accepted the young nobleman into Shadaloo as his personal assassin and one of his three Grand Master bodyguards. Vega accepted Bison's offer purely to improve his own aesthetic senses. His official tag partner in the crossover fighting game \"Street Fighter X Tekken\" is Balrog, although they are shown to loathe each other due to their clashing personalities. \n\nVega is one of the fastest characters in the \"Street Fighter\" series, and also one of the most fragile. His strength is in long-range attacks, with the reach advantage provided by his claw, his speed and jumps. During fights, Vega is capable of losing his claw. This reduces his attack range significantly, and prevents him from performing certain moves. Since \"Super Street Fighter II Turbo\", Vega can pick up the claw again if lost. Other games allow Vega to lose his mask, lowering his health but increasing his attack power as a result. In \"Street Fighter EX2, Street Fighter EX3\", and \"Street Fighter IV\" Vega can take his claw and mask off manually. Vega becomes able to switch freely between clawed and bare-handed in his most recent rendition, \"Street Fighter V\".\n\nIn the 1994 live-action film version of \"Street Fighter\", Vega was played by Native American actor Jay Tavare in his film debut. He is depicted as a member of the Shadaloo Tong working for Sagat. Along with his trademark mask and claw, he has very few lines during the whole film and utters them while his face is obscured or when he is off-camera. He forms a rivalry with Ryu, and in the film's final battle, he is defeated by Ryu and abandoned by Sagat to presumably die when Bison's base explodes. He also appears in the arcade game based on the film titled \"\", as well as in the also based on the film. In the arcade version of the game, Vega has the ability to take his mask off and throw it to his opponent. In the home version, this ability was removed and Vega fights unmasked.\n\nIn the 2009 live-action film \"\", Vega is played by rapper Taboo of the group The Black Eyed Peas. This version of Vega retains his claw and mask, but the mask is made of metal and he appears dressed in black from head to toe. The film changed the reason Vega wears the mask, from protecting his face to hiding his identity.\n\nIn the 1994 anime film \"\", Vega was voiced by Kaneto Shiozawa in Japanese and Richard Cansino in the English dub. In the film, he works for Shadowlaw under Bison, and is sent to New York to kill Chun-Li. He almost succeeds through a vicious and bloody duel that takes its toll on both fighters, but after baiting Vega into a rage by attacking his face, Chun-Li eventually defeats him by Hundred-Burst-Kicking him through her apartment wall into the streets far below.\n\nIn the 1995 anime \"Street Fighter II V\", Vega appears as a bullfighter who tries to seduce Chun-Li. Envious over Ryu and Ken's friendship with Chun-Li, Vega invites the three to a party in his castle, which is actually a trap to lure Ryu and Ken to a caged death match with him. Since Ryu does not attend the party, he subsequently fights only Ken, and is finally defeated after a brutal match. He is given the surname of Fabio La Cerda in the series. Kaneto Shiozawa provided his voice for the Japanese version, while Vic Mignogna provided his voice for the English dub from ADV Films and Richard Cansino provided his voice for the Animaze English dub.\n\nVega appears in two episodes of the 1995 American \"Street Fighter\" animated series, \"Eye of the Beholder\" and \"Face of Fury,\" where he is a former henchman of Bison promised eternal youth who develops a rivalry against Blanka. He was voiced by Mark Hildreth in the series.\n\nVega makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in 1999 anime miniseries \"\", where he ends up pulverizing, though not outright killing, his opponent Dan Hibiki during an underground fight. Vega reappears in the Shadaloo helicopter near the end of \"\". He will appear in the upcoming \"Street Fighter: World Warrior\".\n\nIn 1992, he was ranked 16th on Japanese magazine \"Gamest\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s list of the best video game characters introduced in 1991. Vega was voted fifth in Capcom's own poll of 85 characters for the 15th anniversary of \"Street Fighter\", making him the most popular male character. IGN ranked Vega at number ten in their \"Top 25 Street Fighter Characters\" article, stating \"he deserves all the credit in the world for originality. There's never been a Street Fighter character quite like him since.\" GameDaily ranked him at number twelve on their \"Top 20 Street Fighter Characters of All Time\" article, noting the strength of his aerial attacks, and also put Vega on their \"Tattooed Video Game Characters\" list. Ranking him seventh on its list of top 10 \"Street Fighter\" characters of all-time, WhatCulture declared \"Vega is up there as one of the top Street Fighters purely because of his flamboyance.\"\n\nHe ranked 46th in \"GamePro\"s \"47 Most Diabolical Video-Game Villains of All Time\" article. News.com.au named Vega one of the sexiest characters in video games, placing him tenth in their \"Top 10\" article and stating \"part ninja, part bullfighter, Vega's fighting style is definitely one of the most unusual we've seen.\" NowGamer listed a fight between Vega and Yoshimitsu under their \"Street Fighter X Tekken Character Wishlist\" and commented \"Any bout between these two would be a mind-boggling display of fast attacks across the screen.\". GamesRadar noted that while his attire and obsession with beauty was a departure from traditional depictions of ninjas, the features made him \"one of the more iconic scrappers in the Street Fighter games\". They additionally listed him as one of the most outrageous camp villains, stating that a \"camp bad guy list\" without Vega was like a \"cheese sandwich without the cheese or bread,\" while describing him as \"more narcissistic than two clones of Narcissus having sex in a room full of mirrors.\" In 2013, GamesRadar included him in a list of \"The 30 Best Capcom Characters of the Last 30 Years.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7371696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7371696", "title": "Yarigui people", "text": "Yarigui people\n\nThe Yariguí people were an indigenous Colombian tribe that gave their name to a mountainous area they once inhabited in the Andean cloud forest. It has been said that they committed mass suicide instead of submitting to Spanish colonial rule.\n\nThe indigenous nation of the Yariguies was located in an extensive forested area of the Magdalena River Valley, in the western portion of the current department of Santander in Colombia.\n\nThe approximate boundaries of their indigenous territory were the Minero River to the south, the Sogamoso River to the north, the Magdalena River to the west, and the Cordillera Oriental to the east. They lived, then, in a region of woodland and rainforest, a land of high temperatures and great humidity, which made life difficult for the inhabitants.\n\nBelonging to the Carib language family, the Yariguies were a people formed essentially of nomadic hunters and gatherers. They were divided into five independent clans: the Arayas Chiracotas, Tolomeos, Suamacaes, Opones, and Carares. Each clan was independently governed by its own cacique. \n\nFrom first contact with Spanish explorers, the Yariguies were hostile and presented a strong resistance. They impeded the invaders' penetration into their lands, aided by the natural difficulties of the rainforest. The chroniclers, like friar Pedro Simón, referred to the Yariguies, using their macanas, arrows, poisoned darts, and surprise tactics to reduce the 16th-century army of Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada from 900 to 169 men.\n\nBy 1570, four Yariguí caciques were known to the Spaniards: Beto of the Arayas, Caciquillo of the Opones, Martinillo of the Carares, and Suamacá of the los Suamacaes, all dedicated to attacking the expeditions on the Magdalena, Sogamoso, Carare, and Opón rivers that transported colonists, militias, and merchants to Vélez and Santafé de Bogotá. They also attacked troops sent to hunt down natives.\n\nThe \"cacique\" Pipatón (he was the husband of \"cacica\" Yarima) offered the most famous resistance, having been captured and maimed by having his heels cut in 1601, after which he escaped and returned to lead the resistance against the Spanish. Nonetheless, at the end of his life, he turned himself in to the colonial authorities and was sent to a convent of friars in Bogotá, where he died after 1612.\n\nThree circumstances combined to weigh against the Yariguies' desires to keep their land free from intrusion: their low birthrate, the increasing number of colonists, and the diseases brought by Europeans, especially the flu, smallpox, and measles, against which the natives had no immunological defenses. These factors caused the population of indigenous peoples to decline drastically over the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nAt the moment of the Spanish arrival in 1536, the Yariguies are estimated to have comprised a population of some 50,000 persons. Three centuries later 15,000 still survived. Until that date, the woodland and rainforest that made up their landbase was for the most part intact. By 1880, the Yariguies numbered 10,000, then 5,000 in 1900, 1,000 in 1910, 500 in 1920, and none in 1940. The blame for the final extinction of this community is due to the new mestizo colonists who invaded their territory in search of pastureland, quinine, tagua, wood, and, ultimately, petroleum. Additionally, the construction of a road from Socorro, then capital of Santander, to the Magdalena River, brought further incursions into the region and authorized \"hunting parties\" against the indigenous peoples, destroying whole villages.\n\n"}
