{"id": "31783007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31783007", "title": "Agony in the Garden (Perugino)", "text": "Agony in the Garden (Perugino)\n\nAgony in the Garden is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed around 1483-1493, and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence. \n\nThe work was painted for the church of the convent of San Giusto alle mura together with the \"Pietà\" and a \"Crucifixion\". Renaissance art biographer Giorgio Vasari saw them in side altars of the church of San Giovanni Battista alla Calza, after the original location had been destroyed during the Siege of Florence in 1529. It was moved to the Uffizi in the 20th century.\n\nThe dating of the work is disputed: it varies from 1482, the year of Perugino's return from Rome, to a slightly later period, although before the end of the century, when the artist started to use only line oil, which in these works is used only at an experimental level.\n\nThe painting was restored in 1998.\n\nChrist is portrayed in center of the panel above a clear sky, kneeling in the Garden of Gethsemane and receiving by an angel a divine chalice. His figure forms a triangle with the three sleeping apostles at the bottom (from the left, John, Peter and James); the triangle is connected to the painting's sides by the symmetrical line of the hills. Behind Jesus is a lake landscape, a typical element of the Italian painting at the time, with a fortified city and an ancient bridge. \n\nAt the sides, two groups of soldiers, led by Judas Iscariot, are closing to arrest Jesus.\n"}
{"id": "1101776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1101776", "title": "Ashoka Chakra", "text": "Ashoka Chakra\n\nThe Ashoka Chakra is a depiction of the dharmachakra; represented with 24 spokes. It is so called because it appears on a number of edicts of Ashoka, most prominent among which is the Lion Capital of Ashoka. The most visible use of the Ashoka Chakra today is at the centre of the Flag of India (adopted on 22 July 1947), where it is rendered in a navy blue colour on a white background, replacing the symbol of \"charkha\" (spinning wheel) of the pre-independence versions of the flag.\n\nIndia's highest peacetime military decoration awarded for valour, courageous action or self-sacrifice away from the battlefield is also called Ashoka Chakra.\n\nAs per one study, 24 spokes of Ashoka chakra represent 24 Jain Tirthankaras.\nWhen Gautama Buddha achieved enlightenment at Bodh Gaya, he came to Sarnath, on the outskirts of Varanasi. There, he found his five disciples Assaji, Mahānāma, Kondañña, Bhaddiya and Vappa, who had earlier abandoned him. He introduced his first teachings to them, thereby establishing the dharmachakra. This is the motive taken up by Ashoka and portrayed on top of his pillars.\n\nAccording to the Puranas of Hinduism, Ashoka Chakra represent the 24 Rishis or Sages who managed the whole power of the Gayatri Mantra. The 24 letters of the Gayatri Mantra depict those 24 Rishis. Those Rishis represent all the Rishis of the Himalayas, of which the first was Maharshi Vishvamitra and the last was Rishi Yajnavalkya, the author of Yājñavalkya Smṛti which is a Hindu text of the Dharmaśāstra tradition.\n\nHowever, 12 out of the 24 spokes represent the twelve causal links taught by the Buddha and paṭicȧcasamuppāda (Dependent Origination, Conditional Arising). The first 12 spokes represent 12 stages of suffering. Next 12 spokes represent no cause no effect. So, due to awareness of mind, formation of mental conditioning stops. This process stops the process of birth and death i.e. nibbāna. The twelve causal links, paired with their corresponding symbols, are:\nThese 12 in reverse represent a total 24 spokes representing the dharma.\n\n"}
{"id": "30858036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30858036", "title": "Australian regional rivalries", "text": "Australian regional rivalries\n\nAustralian regional rivalries refers to the rivalries between Australian cities or regions.\n\nThe oldest Australian regional rivalry dating back to 1804. Some people state that Sydney has traditionally been politically right-winged compared to Newcastle being politically centre-left. However, in actual fact almost all NSW Labor premiers have come from Sydney suburbs, and the NSW Labor Party has a long and proud history in Sydney. Newcastle's population was traditionally working class whereas Sydney was home to a mix of people including the working class, politicians, businessmen and bureaucrats. The Royal Australian Navy has been based at Sydney since it was founded. Even after more than 200 years, Newcastle's culture is still very independent from Sydney's culture even though they are only approximately 160 km apart.\n\nThere has been a long-standing rivalry between the cities of Sydney and Melbourne, the two largest cities in Australia. The rivalry between the cities was the reason that neither Sydney (the oldest and now largest city) nor Melbourne (the largest city at the time) was chosen as the capital of Australia when the nation was federated in 1901. Because of this disagreement, section 125 of the Australian Constitution specified that Melbourne would initially serve as the seat of government on a temporary basis, while the permanent capital of the new Commonwealth must be located within the area of New South Wales but at least 100 miles from Sydney. This city became Canberra. Melbourne operated as the \"de facto\" capital city from 1901 until 1927, when Canberra's historic Parliament House was opened, remaining in use until it was replaced with the current Parliament House in 1988. Various Commonwealth governmental bodies continued to operate principally from Sydney or Melbourne after 1927. Most civil service departments were moved to Canberra in the 1950s, and the High Court of Australia was finally moved from Melbourne to Canberra in 1980.\n\nRivalry and differences between the colonies was a feature of life in Pre-Federation Australia. There was a real rivalry between the most powerful colonies, New South Wales and Victoria, on trade matters. Both the two largest colonies believed that the new nation should follow their trade model. New South Wales had a policy of free trade where all goods coming that came into the state were not tariffed. Victoria had an opposite policy of protectionism with tariffs imposed on goods coming into the state from other colonies. This rivalry delayed the process of federation; eventually the two colonies agreed that trade between the colonies would be tariff free, but tariffs would be placed on goods from overseas (excluding the British Empire).\n\nRugby league (NRL) in Australia is traditionally based in Sydney, while Australian rules football (AFL) was invented and traditionally based in Melbourne. While both sports have extended their popularity beyond their own state, the historic and spiritual centre of both sports has remained in Sydney and Melbourne respectively, and neither city has been quick to embrace the other city's dominant football code. There is also an increasing rivalry between the city's two A-League teams, Sydney FC and Melbourne Victory FC, with matches between the two sides known as \"The Big Blue\". Finally, there is also a growing rivalry between the ANZ Championship netball teams the New South Wales Swifts (previously Sydney Swifts) and Melbourne Vixens (previously Melbourne Phoenix). Also, there is a rivalry between the Sydney Kings and the Melbourne Tigers in Basketball (NBL).\n\nSydney, with a population of 4.84 million, is the largest city in Australia, and has been named the world's best city eight consecutive times by Condé Nast Traveler. Melbourne is the second largest city in Australia with a population of 4.44 million, is the current and has been named seven consecutive times world's most liveable city by \"The Economist\". It is often regarded as the fashion, arts, cultural and sporting capital of Australia. On the other hand, Sydney may be called the historic, finance and media capital. While Sydney has been recently overtaken by Melbourne in terms of domestic tourism income, Sydney still remains the leading tourism destination for international tourists.\n\nFounded 47 years after Sydney, Melbourne was established by free settlers, and the colony of Victoria never possessed any convict settlements; however, Sydney's original founding was based upon convicts and was the first settlement of the English in Australia. Today Sydney still maintains the most historic settlement site in Australia, called 'The Rocks'. Melbourne transformed rapidly thanks to the Victorian gold rush in the 1850s, and became Australia's largest and most important city by 1865. This golden age, referred to as 'Marvellous Melbourne', was crushed by the banking collapse and depression of the 1890s, and Sydney overtook Melbourne as the largest Australian city in the early 20th century. Sydney is currently the largest and most populous city in Australia, however Sydney's growth has been curtailed by policies of the New South Wales government, including restrictions on land release for housing. Sydney's infrastructure development is also hampered by its challenging geography. If current trends continue, Melbourne may become the most populous city in Australia sometime in the mid-21st century.\n\nQueensland is distant from the main population and political centres of southern Australia, namely Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra. At the same time it has long contributed a significant proportion of Australia's most lucrative export commodities, such as coal, beef and sugar. The disparity between Queensland's economic contribution and political influence has long caused tension. The relationship is complicated by the migration since the 1970s of many people from the southern states, who are both welcomed for the economic benefits they bring, and occasionally disparaged as \"Mexicans\" because they come from \"south of the border\". This sentiment was epitomised by Joh Bjelke-Petersen's parochialism and frequent promotion of the idea of secession of Queensland from Australia during his term as premier.\n\nQueenslanders, especially north of Brisbane, were marginalised by the \"Brisbane Line\", a controversial defence proposal allegedly formulated during World War II. Under the proposal, Australia would concede the northern portion of the Australian continent in the event of an invasion by the Japanese.\nPeople from the southern states sometimes refer to Queensland as \"The Deep North\", in allusion to the Deep South of the United States and the socio-political stereotype associated with it. This was notably the case during the 1970s and early 1980s, when Joh Bjelke-Petersen was Premier, and again in the 1990s, when Pauline Hanson's One Nation Party from Queensland became a significant force in Australian politics.\n\nThe rivalry between the states of New South Wales and Queensland goes back over 100 years, stemming from the attitude that New South Wales was the \"Mother Colony\" while Queensland was viewed as a poorer cousin.\n\nThis rivalry has been played out through sport over the years. In Queensland there has been a general ill-feeling over the number of sports people leaving their home state for New South Wales, particularly rugby league football players who left to play for the richer Sydney clubs. These players would then play against Queensland in interstate matches. In 1980, as a solution to this problem, the State of Origin series was created to allow Queensland players to play for their original state, and an immediate stop was put to New South Wales' dominance at the time. This sporting contest played three times a year now exemplifies this rivalry, dominating the media and public attention states during the series.\n\nAlso this rivalry has a political component, with Queensland traditionally tending to state-centered conservatism and populist left politics, while New South Wales traditionally tending to classical-liberal conservatism, modern (small-l) liberal centrism, and social democratic left politics.\n\nWestern Australia has the largest land area of any state of Australia, encompassing a third of the continent. It is the least densely populated and the furthest removed from the Eastern States centres of population and from the Federal Government's home in the Australian Capital Territory. The state has the fourth largest population of the Australian States and Territories with 9.8% of the national total, and about one-third the population of Victoria and New South Wales. Some Western Australian towns are located closer to its South East Asian neighbours to the North than to cities interstate; the capital Perth is closer to Jakarta than to Sydney or Melbourne. At the same time, it has abundant natural resources and primary industries that contribute a significant part of Australia's economy, particularly in the mining sector. As at June 2006 it contributed 11.7% of the Gross State Product. There is a belief that too much of the wealth of Western Australia is lost to the federal system and redistributed among the Eastern States. Only 6% of the total goods and services tax (GST) allocations to the states and territories is distributed to Western Australia. Many Western Australians believe they are actually subsidising and paying for the other states, which they derisively call \"poor states.\"\n\nSome Western Australians consider their state to be a \"forgotten\" Cinderella State. Often sporting and concert events bypass the state for financial reasons because of its isolation. Western Australians have long complained of being ignored and / or taken advantage of by the other states and the Commonwealth over political and economical issues. In regards to sport, most animosity is directed to Victoria, whose more powerful Victorian Football League evolved into a pseudo-national league rechristened as the Australian Football League at the detriment to the WAFL and South Australia's SANFL. It was Western Australia who came up with the State of Origin football concept that was so successful in the 1980s and continues to be in the rugby league version.\n\nWestern Australia is the most successful cricketing state behind New South Wales yet the state team only debuted in the interstate Sheffield Shield in 1947, 55 years after the other colonies started. WA was only allowed to enter the competition after agreeing to pay the other states. Ill feeling because of the unfair financial burden was somewhat soothed by WA winning the shield in their first season. Such unfair financial conditions were also put onto the ill-conceived Western Reds in the Australian Rugby League. The club was forced to pay for the accommodation and airfares of visiting teams along with their own when they were the greatest travelling club in the league. Though the club performed solidly on the field, financial conditions caused it to fold at the end of 1997. The club's licence and the core of the playing group moved to Melbourne where that new club won the premiership in its second season.\n\nWestern Australia was the last colony to agree to join the federation, participating only after pressure from other states. In fact, the state is not mentioned in the preamble to the \"Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act\" (1900) as its support was given too late for the document to be redrafted. On several occasions, secessionism has been seriously proposed and was even formally pursued in a 1933 referendum which received 68% popular support, but to no effect due to the unwillingness of the British parliament to overturn the legislation enabling the formation of the Federation of Australia.\n\nThe Illawarra region of New South Wales lies only a short distance south of Sydney; however, the socioeconomic and ethnic backgrounds of its citizens has allowed for the development of bitter rivalries between the Illawarra and Sydney, the Illawarra and Newcastle, and the Illawarra and Far South Coast.\n\nThe Illawarra vs. Sydney Rivalry is founded in historical, political and, for many, personal aspects. The Illawarra northern suburbs centred on Thirroul and Corrimal have seen drastic development resulting from overpopulation in the Sydney Cumberland Basin with many local residents upset about being encroached upon by the metropolis.\n\nThis same reason was one of the reasons for the 1885 Charcoal Creek riots (now Unanderra), when 18 homes built by migrants from Sydney were demolished and razed by angry Illawarrian farmers who claimed they were built illegally by \"ignorant city siders who don't know our country.\" The desire of Illawarrians to show differences between themselves and Sydneysiders has shown itself many times. In the early days of the Iraq War, Wollongong Lord Mayor Alex Darling led a delegation to the Consul General of France asking them to accept Wollongong's defection to France in protest at Sydney (and Canberra's) stance.\n\nIn 1915, when the Commonwealth was looking for a port for Canberra, the Illawarra shires unanimously volunteered to become part of the territory, however the state government in Sydney refused to allow it because it would be too close to Sydney's ports and far too competitive. Jervis Bay was eventually made the site, however territorial separatism is still felt in the region today. Illawarra politicians are often very supportive of new states movements elsewhere in the state, including New England (Australia), Riverina and Bogong states movements, however no current Illawarra new state movement is known to exist.\n\nThe Newcastle vs. Wollongong rivalries exist mainly due to the history of each city, to their similar populations, to both being steel towns, and also to their similar distances from Sydney.\n\nMuch of the rivalry is played out in sport, and primarily Australian rules football. The very first interstate match was held between the two states in 1879. \"Kick a Vic\" became the later South Australian catchcry in State of Origin football. South Australians became bitter when the AFL canned the State of Origin series, which has increased with the reluctance to allow South Australia to once again compete. There are even some South Australians who dispute the Victorian origin of Australian Rules and claim that the game is a South Australian invention, pointing to an earliest recorded football match which was played in South Australia in 1840, nearly two decades before the first rules of the game were written, although historians later argued that this early match was instead the Irish game of caid. Nevertheless, Australian rules in South Australia was the first to form a true governing body and the SANFL remains the oldest league in the game (founded as the SAFA just over two weeks before the VFA in early 1877). Many SANFL supporters resent the expansion of the VFL to become the Australian Football League, and in particular, the poaching of players from South Australia before the first teams from Adelaide were admitted into the competition. Many South Australian supporters also resent the Melbourne-based AFL for not recognising its history and low representation in the official Australian Football Hall of Fame. Port Adelaide Football Club's bid to defect to the AFL in 1990 was seen as a major scandal and an act of betrayal by South Australians. Many of the club's supporters resent being forced to drop its jumper design and record number of premierships to change leagues upon its final admission in 1997. \nAnother source of this rivalry goes back to how these states were settled. Neither state was formed as a penal colony however South Australia was self-governing (as opposed to a crown-colony). South Australia was a freely settled state that had no settlers when it was first settled. because of this it received many of its settlers from Germany and Austria and German was the de facto second language in South Australia until the First World War. Early Victoria settlers, on the other hand, were almost entirely English or Gaelic speakers from Great Britain and Ireland. As a result of South Australia's early German connection, a feeling of resentment was held towards the state during the First World War, a feeling which still exists, albeit on a much less intense level, today.\n\nThere is also a quite intense rivalry in the A-League between Adelaide United FC and Melbourne Victory.\n\nThere is a regional rivalry between North Queensland and Brisbane (or South East Queensland). This is partially because the distance between them, which is similar to the distance between Brisbane and other state capitals. There has been continuing proposals in the past for a separate North Queensland state. However many people of North Queensland (NQ) would prefer to be independent. Rugby league games between the North Queensland Cowboys and Brisbane Broncos attract large crowds.\n\nThere has been a long-standing rivalry between the North Queensland Cities of Cairns and Townsville. This is partly due to the similar size of the two cities, distance and slightly different local cultures. Both cities have sought to be known as the capital of the region, the major population centre and port. Cairns is considered the aviation, agricultural & tourism hub of North Queensland whilst Townsville the administrative, financial and industrial hub.\n\nEach city is home to a national sports team, the North Queensland Cowboys located in Townsville, and the Cairns Taipans. Because of the inter-city rivalry it generally takes longer for these teams to win the hearts and minds of potential supporters in the rival city.\n\nThe cities of Ballarat and Bendigo in Victoria have an ongoing rivalry which dates back to the Victorian Gold Rush. Throughout the 19th and 20th Centuries the two cities have been of almost identical size in terms of population and commercial importance, as well as claims to being the 'capital' of the Goldfields region of Victoria. Ballarat has remained slightly ahead in population terms, although growth rates between the two cities have fluctuated.\n\nThe population figure for the local government area of the City of Greater Bendigo (which includes sizeable nearby towns) is larger, and therefore often cited by Bendigonians in favour of their city. Bendigo remains the larger financial centre and Bendigonians also claim the warmer climate. Bendigo also claimed superior gold production. Both Ballarat and Bendigo have used their history and architectural heritage as major tourist drawcards and directly vie for the tourist dollar. In tourism Ballarat has traditionally drawn more visitors due to its geographic position and also to the presence of popular Sovereign Hill, a re-creation of 1850's Ballarat town and mines. Ballarat was also the site of the 1854 Eureka rebellion, when armed miners and government troops fought over the miners' demands for fairer tax and license laws. Visitors are also drawn to the attractions related to the rebellion.\n\nThe modern Ballarat vs. Bendigo rivalry extends to sport with Australian rules and basketball teams from each town having notable contests drawing interest from the media and spectators.\n\nLong standing rivalries between towns and cities in the Latrobe Valley that make Latrobe City go back to 1880s, particularly between similarly sized Morwell and Traralgon and to a lesser extent Moe. Latrobe City is a fairly rare case of an urban area formed incrementally from multiple similarly sized cities without a single central core. Both Morwell and Traralgon continue to claim the civic centre and most dominant in the region and the municipality City of Latrobe was partly formed to settle rivalries between the cities. This rivalry extends to sports, particularly local Australian rules football matches and also soccer.\n\nThe North and South rivalry generally follows the historical division of the state along the 42nd parallel. This division was formalised between 1804–1812 when the Northern county was known as Cornwall and the Southern county was Buckinghamshire. The population of Tasmania is nearly evenly split between the North and the South. The North-South rivalry manifests in various ways such as preference of beer; Cascade in the South vs Boags in the North, and which newspaper is more widely read, \"The Mercury\" in the South vs \"The Examiner\" in the North. It is a longstanding battle between the two areas, and the mayors of Launceston and Hobart symbolically \"buried the hatchet\" in 1959 . However, the current mayors dug the hatchets back up in 2012 whilst dressed in full pirate regalia.\n\nThe divide has extended to the state's maximum security Risdon Prison, where northern and southern inmates are being separated.\n\nThe north-south divide was referenced in an episode of Australian comedy TV series \"Utopia\".\n\nCartoonist Christopher Downes makes light of the rivalry in the cartoon \"The Great Divide\" for the newspaper of the Southern division, \"The Mercury\".\n\nFacebook cartographer Simon Bags recently created this map to document the division of beer drinking in Tasmania. Some controversy exists over the exact boundaries of the red and blue section of this map.\n\nThere is also an intense rivalry between residents of the Greater Hobart area between those living North and South of the \"Flannelette Curtain\", an imaginary socioeconomic boundary running along Creek Road, Moonah. The Curtain, also known as the Flannel Curtain or the Latte Line by those to the North of it, is so called due to the supposed propensity of flannelette shirts North of the border, and is meant to distinguish the bogan regions of the North from the Southern regions, though even those living South of the Curtain admit the existence of many \"bogan enclaves\" in the South.\nIn recent times, the Curtain has been observed to be migrating North.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12197392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12197392", "title": "Bakugan Battle Brawlers", "text": "Bakugan Battle Brawlers\n\nA spin-off series called \"Baku Tech! Bakugan\" which featured the characters from the manga of the same name aired on TV Tokyo from April 7, 2012 to March 30, 2013. It was followed by a sequel series called \"Baku Tech! Bakugan Gachi\" which ran from April 6, 2013 to December 28, 2013.\n\nIn 2015, Spin Master revealed that they had plans to relaunch \"Bakugan\"; however, no statements had been made until November 30, 2017 when Spin Master revealed there would be a \"Bakugan\" relaunch in the 1st quarter of 2019. The series will be called \"Bakugan Battle Planet\". So after the company's announcement of forming the partnership with Cartoon Network, TMS Entertainment & Nelvana Limited once again, the new series was soon pushed forward to a December 2018 release. A few days later, the new rebooted show was confirmed to consist of 100 11-minute episodes, which can also be marketed as 50 22-30 minute episodes. On October 15th, Some of the voice actors for the series along with the character's names were revealed; Dan Kouzo would be voice by Jonah Wineberg, Shun by Ticoon Kim & Wynton Styles by Deven Mack.\n\nDan Kuso's life changed one day when random cards fell out of the sky with special powers. He and his friend Shun invented a game called Bakugan with these. Together with his friends Runo, Marucho, Shun, Julie, and Alice, they form the Bakugan Battle Brawlers and its members are accidentally dragged into fighting for the fate of Vestroia (the Bakugan's home dimension).\n\nThe season is the story of a dimension called Vestroia which loses its natural balance and merges with the Earth and many other worlds. An evil Bakugan called Naga was tempted to take the power of the Infinity and Silent Cores, which formed the Perfect Core that balanced Vestroia, but absorbed too much negative energy and thus was trapped within the Silent Core and destabilised Vestroia. So Dan and the brawlers decided to bring back balance by meeting new friends and allies in the other worlds, learn more about the origin of the Bakugan; and facing Naga, a rogue bakugan who seeks the mighty Infinity Core so that he could complete the all-powerful Perfect Core and have almighty power and absolute control over Earth and Vestroia.\n\nThe two of the six Battle Brawlers (Dan and Marucho) return to New Vestroia and discover that it has been colonized by an alien race called Vestals, who are unaware that the Bakugan are intelligent beings. Three Vestals: Mira, Ace and Baron, however, encounter Shun, who was an old friend of Dan and Marucho, so he knew the truth about Bakugan and formed the Bakugan Brawlers Resistance. While battling against the evil Vexos, the top Vestal brawlers, who follow the rules of their Prince. The Brawlers destroy each of the three Dimension Controllers that keep the Bakugan in their ball form, liberating New Vestroia. The Resistance part but reunite six months later when they discover that King Zenoheld of Vestal has attacked the Six Ancient Warriors in an attempt to steal the Attribute Energies. The Six Ancient Warriors engage in a 6-on-1 battle with Zenoheld, but are unable to defeat Zenohelds Mechanical Bakugan, Farbros. In desperation, the Ancient Warriors give the Resistance Bakugan their attribute energies to protect them from Zenoheld, who has the Bakugan Termination System, a machine built to wipe out all Bakugan but needs the Attribute Energies to power it. These energies result in the 6 Bakugan evolving. After losing half the energies, the Brawlers decided to attack instead, engaging a temporary alliance with Spectra Phantom, the former leader of the Vexos, along with his sidekick Gus Grav. However, the remaining energies are taken and the Brawlers rush to New Vestroia to evacuate all the Bakugan. Drago, however, refuses to give up and manages to destroy the BT System by absorbing all 6 Attribute Energies and evolves again into Helix Dragonoid. Things quiet down until Spectra resurfaces again to battle Dan and when he loses, he concedes that Dan is number one and joins the Brawlers, returning to his original self, Keith Clay. Keith reveals that Zenoheld is working on a powerful weapon called the Alternative System and helps construct Battle Gear for Drago. Meanwhile, the Vexos begins crumbling from within as both Volt, Lync and Shadow decide to leave, feeling that Zenoheld and his son Hydron have finally gone too far but are quickly disposed of by Prince Hydron. In the final battle, the Brawlers with Gus, who joins as their newest member, manage to destroy the Alternative and the Resistance go their separate ways.\n\nAfter defeating Zenoheld, the Brawlers return to Earth and with the help of newcomer Ren, they set up Bakugan Interspace. However, Ren is not all that he seems to be and reveals that he is a Gundalian in need of help, saying that his planet Gundalia, is under attack by Neathia. Shun is not convinced and discovers, that Ren is lying once Princess Fabia showed and proved Ren's story wrong. The Brawlers agree to help Fabia and head to Neathia to help fight off the Gundalians. Meanwhile, Ren begins showing signs of distrust for Barodius (Gundalia's Tyrannical Emperor) and eventually defects to rejoin the Brawlers. Unfortunately, Jake is captured by Kazarina (Gundalia's leading Bakugan biologist) and brainwashed, so the Brawlers head to Gundalia to rescue him along with Ren's imprisoned teammates(who were imprisoned for failure), joined by Nurzak (a former advisor to Barodious, who turned against him when he saw he would lead Gundalia to ruin) and Mason Brown(a teammate who had escaped imprisonment, who have also sided with Neathia. Once they do, the Twelve Orders mount a final attack on Neathia. The Brawlers rush back in time to defend the planet while Dan and Barodius engage in their final battle. Ren and Mason's teammates Jesse Glenn, Lena Isis and Zenet Surrow are freed from their brainwashed state after Kazarina's demise. Linehalt uses his Forbidden Powers to restore the war torn Neathia, while Barodius and Dharak are destroyed by an overload of vast energy and power from the Sacred Orb (which they tried to take anyway, despite Dan and Drago defeating them), which grants Drago new strength and abilities and evolves into Titanium Dragonoid and granting him the status of ruler over \"all\" Bakugan.\n\nThe Brawlers' reign as number one in Bakugan Interspace is ended by two new powerful teams: Team Anubias and Team Sellon. To make matters worse, Dan and Drago continuously suffer from visions sent to them by Mag Mel and Razenoid. These cause them to lose fans rapidly when Drago loses control in battle several times, threatening the lives of all the children in Interspace. Shun and Marucho find themselves unable to help as Dan is keeping everything to himself. When Dan loses control once again and nearly kills Anubias in battle, all of Dan's fans abandon him and he leaves for New Vestroia to train. Shun, meanwhile, takes the reins of leader of the Battle Brawlers and charges himself with the task of returning the Brawlers to their former glory. He becomes more and more uncaring and brushes off all opinions but his own while Marucho tries to help him be a better leader. Paige and Rafe show up to learn from them, but find them in disarray. Meanwhile, Dan and Drago fix their problem and prepare to come back. Eventually, Dan controls Drago's powers as Marucho and Shun reunite and join up with Paige and Rafe. When the Chaos Bakugan start destroying Interspace, Spectra appears out of nowhere to help the Brawlers out and destroys many of the Chaos Bakugan. Afterwards, Dan returns, but is out of sync and accidentally defeats his fellow brawlers with Zenthon. He tells them later about Mag Mel (Spectra left beforehand, disappointed in Dan having changed). Shun walks out and dismisses Taylean's words. Dan later has a vision (which is true) about Gundalia being attacked by Mag Mel (who is now free). Dan arrives and tells them about Gundalia, which Paige confirms unexpectedly. The Brawlers dismiss Dan and don't let him go, but Dan says somewhat angrily that he's not asking; he's telling them that he is an original brawler and isn't gonna be cut from this fight. They let him come along and save Ren's home world.\n\nThen they face Mag Mel and discover Interspace being destroyed, so they go back to Earth to save it but they are trapped and must figure a way to save the gate, the key, the battlers and Interspace. Just then, Anubias and Sellon reveal themselves as artificial life forms created by Mag Mel to assure his resurrection and succeeded in taking Dan's Key. In a new battle, Dan finds out that Mag Mel is actually Barodius, who survived his last encounter on Neathia after being transported to the dark reversed dimension created by Code Eve. He later plans to destroy Earth, Gundalia, Neathia, Vestal and New Vestroia by sending every civilization to the dark reversed dimension. Dan and Drago have a final brawl against Mag Mel and Razenoid with Drago evolving one more time into the legendary Fusion Dragonoid. They manage to win, but before \"disappearing\", Mag Mel says that his final demise will cause another disaster to befall on Dan and Drago.\n\nA few months later, Bakugan City is shown to have a peaceful start as humans have now communed with the Bakugan from New Vestroia. Not all is well when 4 Mechtogan led by Coredegon, who have broken free from their bakugan, start terrorizing the place. Not only that, but some new enemy called Wiseman has appeared with ancient Bakugan called the Nonets. At the beginning, The Brawlers get confused because Wiseman somehow had the appearance of Gunz Lazar, the new Haos Brawler who disappeared after the four Mechtogan attacked Bakugan City. But it was later revealed that Wiseman was actually Coredegon in disguise while the real Gunz was put in a coma so his negative energy was absorbed. After Coredegon alongside his pals (in his combined form as a Mechtogan Destroyer) sent the Brawlers to the Doom Dimension, he completely destroyed the Earth and New Vestroia. With Gunz back to his normal state, Dan and the others travel through time in order to stop Mechtavius Destroyer from killing every human and Bakugan. In the final battle, Dragonoid Destroyer, who is Drago's last Mechtogan, acquires an infinite power that comes from the bond between Bakugan and humans all over the world, which gave them a chance to defeat the Nonet Mechtogan and send them back between dimensions. Dan's friends throw him a party, but soon discover Dan is missing. Shun sees Dan and Drago sailing off using a boat borrowed from Kato. Dan says that another adventure is waiting for him and Drago, and that he had enough time in the spotlight, such that he wants to let other Brawlers to rise to his rank.\n\nThe first episode of the anime television series (produced by TMS Entertainment, Dentsu Inc., and Japan Vistec under the direction of Mitsuo Hashimoto), made its debut in Japan on TV Tokyo on April 5, 2007 and was rebroadcast six days later on BS Japan. Nelvana Limited produced the English-language version and premiered the series on the Canadian network Teletoon in July 2007 and then on Cartoon Network on February 24, 2008. An alternative English dub produced by Odex with all the character names kept in Japanese premiered on Cartoon Network Singapore.\n\nIn March 2009, TMS and Nelvana Entertainment companies announced that a follow-up series, , consisting of 26 episodes was in production. The series began airing on April 12, 2009 on the Canadian network Teletoon and then on Cartoon Network on May 9, 2009. Due to the ratings in Canada, Teletoon asked that New Vestroia be extended leading to an additional 26 episode order.\n\nThe Cartoon Network website aired a special called \"Maxus Unleashed\", and marks a synopsis about the first 26 episodes.\n\nThe New Vestroia series in Japan, aired on the TV Tokyo Network on March 2, 2010, at 7:00PM. The opening song, titled \"Cho! Saikyo! Warriors\" is once again done by Psychic Lover, while the first ending, \"Bang! Bang! Bakugan!\", is done by Yoshifumi Ushima and the second ending \"Communication Breakdown\" by Crush Tears.\n\nPublicly announced through Bakugan.com, the official My.Bakugan.com community, and other media, Spin Master announced a third series, titled . It premiered in Canada on May 23, 2010, and aired in the United States on May 29, 2010. The Japanese version premiered on April 3, 2011 and ended on January 22, 2012, before being replaced by the Japanese dub of Zoobles! in its initial timeslot. The new series ties into the online game Bakugan Dimensions through the use of special heat-reveal DNA codes on the new series of Gundalian Invaders Bakugan.\n\nThe first opening song \"Ready Go!\" is done by Sissy, while the second opening, \"Mega・Meta\", is done by Yu Kobayashi, who is Dan's voice actor. The first ending song, \"Love the Music\", is done by LISP, while the second, \"Tan-Kyu-Shin\", is done by KREVA, and the third is \"Love Go! Courage Go!\", which was performed by TAKUYA.\n\nIn September 2010, Nelvana Entertainment announced a fourth and final season to the \"Bakugan\" series titled , which launched on February 13, 2011 in Canada and in United States on March 5, 2011. It was originally set for 26 episodes but was later extended to 46. As of February 18, 2012, there have been no announcements whether or not this will air in Japan. Also, in this season Kubo helped to Hashimoto for some episodes. However, late in 2012, Taiwan and Hong Kong did air a version based off the original Japanese version, though using a modified version of the \"Bakugan Battle Brawlers: New Vestroia\" Opening and Ending animations and songs.\n\nIn September 2010, Japanese children's anthology magazine CoroCoro Comic began serializing a Bakugan manga by Shingo Maki titled . The series starred a new cast of characters not related to the anime series. As of August 2011, three volumes have been collected. The anime adaption of Baku Tech! Bakugan was animated by Shogakukan Music & Digital Entertainment and began aired on TV Tokyo from April 7, 2012 to March 30, 2013 as a segment on the show Oha Coro. It was followed by a sequel called \"Baku Tech! Bakugan Gachi\" which aired from April 6, 2013 to December 28, 2013.\n\nIt is the sequel to \"Baku Tech! Bakugan\" which aired from April 6, 2013 to December 28, 2013 on TV Tokyo.\n\nA strategic game called \"Bakugan\" was developed by Sega Toys and Spin Master and released in conjunction with the anime series, albeit beginning a year before the anime even started (2006). The game uses spherical, spring-loaded miniature figures, representing the Bakugan, which pop open when rolled onto special metal Gate cards. The objective of the game is to capture three Gate cards. \n\nThere are a total of 6 attributes: Pyrus (Fire), Aquos (Water) and Haos (Light) make the power triangle. Opposite them, the trio of Darkus (Darkness)\n, Ventus (Wind) and Subterra (Earth) make the triangle of power. Battle gear and Bakunano come in gold, silver, and copper.\n\nThere is the Infinity Core, Silent Core, The Sacred Orb, The Attribute Energies, The Code Of Eve and others. They are power sources. They contain enough power in them to bring life to anything in the Bakugan world. They contain light and darkness to keep the world balanced.\n\nSpecial Treatment Bakugan exist, such as Clear, Dual Attribute, Pearl, Translucent, and White. In the game, most Special Treatment Bakugan have multiple attributes or can take on the attribute of an opposing Bakugan under certain circumstances. Note that special effects are NOT attributes except for Clear and White.\n\nBakugan marbles have been one of the top rated toys for children, winning awards and selling thousands of marbles a year. The original series 1 and 2 (B1 Bakugan) were smaller, and all Bakugan after series 3 called Bakupearl (B2 Bakugan) are larger and the current size.\n\nAccording to IGN, it was one of the leading kids games for the Nintendo DS in 2009. The Toy Industry Association gave Bakugan Battle Brawlers the 2009 Property of the Year award, recognizing the property that has had the greatest success spreading its brand throughout the industry that year.\n\nThe card game is played with a deck of 56 cards, consisting of 5 each of ranks 1-10, plus six additional cards which have special abilities in addition to a rank. There is no suit distinction. Although it's conceptually a trick-taking game, the player who wins the trick only saves one card on his score pile, discarding the rest; this allows for special cases where there is no single winner. At the beginning of each hand, each player rolls one die to determine the target number of captures. At the end of the hand, that player accumulates a penalty score equal to the difference between the target number and the actual number captured. The game lasts until some player has scored ten points, and the lowest score is the winner.\n\nIn August 2009, Digital Blue announced a line of \"Bakugan\" branded electronics for the 20-55 (as confirmed in an interview of popular toys marketed at kids) age group. Products include branded digital cameras, alarm clocks and other electronics. The line was released in retail in Spring 2009.\n\nThe franchise generated significant revenue from merchandising and toy sales. By 2009, \"Bakugan\" had generated in toy sales. In 2010, licensed merchandise sold worldwide. By 2010, the franchise had generated a total of in merchandise sales.\n\nOn June 6, 2010, Spin Master announced on Bakugan.com that they were working on the online game 'Bakugan Dimensions' which would be released online for all Operating Systems that supported Adobe Flash. It was released for open Beta on June 2, 2010 but the beta was shut down on June 30, 2011 because the season for Gundalian Invaders had finished.\n\nThe DS, Wii, PlayStation 2 and 3 and many other systems also had a Bakugan game developed and follows the story of your character with a Bakugan who came from the Doom Dimension. It acts as an alternate plot to the series.\n\nIn 2009, Frito-Lay introduced a set of 26 Bakugan tazos in packages of Cheetos in India. The promotion, which ran from June 10 to August 10, 2009, included a contest in which consumers could win other Bakugan prizes.\n\nAt least since 2017, Spin Master sued Alpha (for Screechers Wild!), Lingdong (for Eonster Hunter) and Mattel (for Sonokong's Mecard, which the American company distributes outside South Korea and Mainland China), alleging that the rival toys in question breached the Canadian company's patents related to Bakugan toys.\n\n"}
{"id": "20767200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20767200", "title": "Buckeye Corpus", "text": "Buckeye Corpus\n\nThe Buckeye Corpus of conversational speech is a speech corpus created by a team of linguists and psychologists at Ohio State University led by Prof. Mark Pitt.\n\n. It contains high-quality recordings from 40 speakers in Columbus, Ohio conversing freely with an interviewer. The interviewer's voice is heard only faintly in the background of these recordings. The sessions were conducted as Sociolinguistics interviews, and are essentially monologues. The speech has been orthographically transcribed and phonetically labeled. The audio and text files, together with time-aligned phonetic labels, are stored in a format for use with speech analysis software (Xwaves and Wavesurfer). Software for searching the transcription files is also available at the project web site. The corpus is available to researchers in academics and industry.\n\nThe project was funded by the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders and the Office of Research at Ohio State University.\n\nPitt, M.A., Dilley, L., Johnson, K., Kiesling, S., Raymond, W., Hume, E. and Fosler-Lussier, E. (2007) Buckeye Corpus of Conversational Speech (2nd release) Columbus, OH: Department of Psychology, Ohio State University (Distributor).\n\n"}
{"id": "15208779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15208779", "title": "Chattel house", "text": "Chattel house\n\nChattel house is a Barbadian word for a small moveable wooden house that working class people would occupy. The term goes back to the plantation days when the home owners would buy houses designed to move from one property to another. The word \"chattel\" means movable property so the name was appropriate. Chattel houses are set on blocks or a groundsill rather than being anchored into the ground. In addition, they are built entirely out of wood and assembled without nails. This allowed them to be disassembled (along with the blocks) and moved from place to place. This system was necessary historically because home \"owners\" typically did not own the land that their house was set on. Instead, their employer often owned the land. In case of a landlord tenant (or employer/employee) dispute, the house could be quickly moved to a new property.\n\nIt has been customary for people in Barbados to build additions onto their chattel houses. As such, the house may look as though different sections are at slightly different heights or in a different pattern due to each part being constructed at different stages.\n\nModern chattel houses tend to have a greater degree of permanence, as they are often connected to the electricity mains, and may either have a permanent septic tank or be connected to a public sewer system.\n\nTimbers were in pre-cut in standard lengths of 12 to 20 feet (even numbers). The front façades tend to be symmetrical, with the door in centre flanked by a window (equally spaced), on each side. As the financial situation changed additions would be made. \nThe roofs were often made of corrugated metal made of iron.\nAs the dimensions changed the style of roofs also changed. These earlier styles gave way to the four-sided roof called the 'hip'. or the steep two-sided gable'. Since then many homes have also transitioned to a more 'flat top' roof with a minimal slope.\n\nAlthough the term is strongly associated with Barbados, it is also used as a legal term in other countries including Trinidad (e.g. CHAPTER 59:54 LAND TENANTS ACT and Maharaj v. Constance 1981), the British Virgin Islands (see section 6(3) of the Small Tenements Act (Cap 73)), and other islands.\n\nChattel houses are still in use on several West Indian islands, although they have become much less common in areas still affected by seasonal hurricanes (Barbados and Trinidad lie outside of the Caribbean hurricane belt).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4790902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4790902", "title": "Cloud swing", "text": "Cloud swing\n\nThe cloud swing (not to be confused with the Mexican cloud swing) is an aerial act that usually combines static and swinging trapeze skills, drops, holds and rebound lifts.\n\nThe apparatus itself is a soft rope about 25-30mm thick. It can be made from a single rope, or from a cotton-filled sheath. On its simplest level the cloud swing resembles a Spanish web in length and width, with each end braided and spliced-lashed with a thimble, forming a loop. Two high-caliber swivels are required to support the weight; the swivels are anchored to a crane bar or a stationary rig, with the swing itself hanging in a \"V\" shape. Generally, the motion provided to swing the performer is supplied by an assistant pulling on a tether at the bottom of the \"V\". \"Cloud swing\" is often performed at lower altitudes relative to \"Mexican cloud swing\". This is what distinguished \"cloud swing\" from \"Mexican cloud swing\".\n\nThe cloud swing is a relatively new apparatus, and many of the figures performed on it are borrowed or adapted from static and swinging trapeze.\n\n"}
{"id": "499572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=499572", "title": "Culture of the Dominican Republic", "text": "Culture of the Dominican Republic\n\nThe culture of the Dominican Republic is a diverse mixture of different influences from around the world. The Dominican people and their customs have origins consisting predominately in a European cultural basis, with both African and native Taíno influences.\n\nThe Dominican Republic was the site of the first European settlement in the Western Hemisphere, namely Santo Domingo founded in 1493. As a result of over five centuries of Spanish presence in the island, the core of Dominican culture is derived from the culture of Spain. The European inheritances include ancestry, language, traditions, law, the predominant religion and the colonial architectural styles. Soon after the arrival of Europeans, African people were imported to the island to serve as slave labor. The fusion of European, native Taino, and African traditions and customs contributed to the development of present-day Dominican culture.\n\nSpanish is the predominant language in the Dominican Republic. The country has a variety of accents most of which derive from the Spanish spoken in the Canary Islands and western Andalusia of southern Spain. The accent spoken in the Cibao region is a mixture of two dialects: that of the 16th- and 17th-century Portuguese colonists in the Cibao valley, and that of the 18th-century Canarian settlers. Dominican Spanish also has borrowed vocabularies from the Arawak language. Some common words derived from the Taino natives include: \"barbecue\", \"canoe\", \"caribbean\", \"hammock\", \"hurricane\", \"iguana\", \"manatee\", \"mangrove\", \"savannah\", and \"tobacco\" among others.\n\nSchools in the Dominican Republic are based on a Spanish educational model. Both English and French are taught as secondary languages on private and public schools. Haitian Creole is spoken by the population of Haitian origin. There is a community of about 8,000 speakers of Samaná English in the Samaná Peninsula. They are the descendants of formerly enslaved Africans who arrived in the nineteenth century. Tourism, American pop culture, the influence of Dominican Americans, and the country's economic ties with the United States motivates other Dominicans to learn English.\n\nThe Dominican Republic is 68.9% Roman Catholic, 18.2% Evangelical, 10.6% with no religion, and 2.3% other. Recent immigration, as well as proselytizing, has brought other religions, with the following shares of the population: Spiritist: 2.2%, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: 1.1%, Buddhist: 0.1%, Bahá'í: 0.1%, Chinese Folk Religion: 0.1%, Islam: 0.02%, Judaism: 0.01%.\nThe nation has two patroness saints: \"Nuestra Señora de la Altagracia\" (Our Lady Of High Grace) and \"Nuestra Señora de las Mercedes\" (Our Lady Of Mercy).\n\nThe Catholic Church began to lose popularity in the late 19th century. This was due to a lack of funding, of priests, and of support programs. During the same time, the Protestant evangelical movement began to gain support. Religious tension between Catholics and Protestants in the country has been rare.\n\nThere has always been religious freedom throughout the entire country. Not until the 1950s were restrictions placed upon churches by Trujillo. Letters of protest were sent against the mass arrests of government adversaries. Trujillo began a campaign against the church and planned to arrest priests and bishops who preached against the government. This campaign ended before it was even put into place, with his assassination.\n\nDuring World War II, a group of Jews escaping Nazi Germany fled to the Dominican Republic and founded the city of Sosúa. It has remained the center of the Jewish population since.\n\nMusically, the Dominican Republic is known for the creation of multiple musical styles and genres but is mostly recognized for \"merengue\", a type of lively, fast-paced rhythm and dance music consisting of a tempo of about 120 to 160 beats per minute (though it varies) based on musical elements like African drums, brass, piano, chorded instruments, and traditionally the accordion, as well as some elements unique to the Dominican Republic, such as the \"tambora\" and \"güira\". Its syncopated beats use Latin percussion, brass instruments, bass, and piano or keyboard. Between 1937 and 1950 merengue music was promoted internationally by Dominican groups like Chapuseaux and Damiron \"Los Reyes del Merengue\", Joseito Mateo, and others. Radio, television, and international media popularized it further. Some well-known merengue performers include Johnny Ventura, singer/songwriter Juan Luis Guerra, Fernando Villalona, Eddy Herrera, Sergio Vargas, Toño Rosario, Milly Quezada, and Chichí Peralta. Merengue became popular in the United States, mostly on the East Coast, during the 1980s and 1990s, when many Dominican artists, among them Victor Roque y La Gran Manzana, Henry Hierro, Zacarias Ferreira, Aventura, and Milly Jocelyn Y Los Vecinos, residing in the U.S. (particularly New York) started performing in the Latin club scene and gained radio airplay. The emergence of \"bachata\", along with an increase in the number of Dominicans living among other Latino groups in New York, New Jersey, Florida and Massachusetts contributed to Dominican music's overall growth in popularity.\n\nBachata, a form of music and dance that originated in the countryside and rural marginal neighborhoods of the Dominican Republic, has become quite popular in recent years. Its subjects are often romantic; especially prevalent are tales of heartbreak and sadness. In fact, the original name for the genre was \"amargue\" (\"bitterness\", or \"bitter music\", or blues music), until the rather ambiguous (and mood-neutral) term \"bachata\" became popular. Bachata grew out of, and is still closely related to, the pan-Latin American romantic style called \"bolero\". Over time, it has been influenced by merengue and by a variety of Latin American guitar styles.\n\nPalo is an Afro-Dominican sacred music that can be found through the island. The drum and human voice are the principal instruments. Palo is played at religious ceremonies - usually coinciding with saint's days - as well as for secular parties and special occasions. Its roots are in the Congo region of central-west Africa, but it is mixed with European influences in the melodies. Palos are related to Dominican folk Catholicism, which includes a pantheon of deities/saints (here termed misterios) much like those found in the African derived syncretic religious traditions of Cuba, Brazil, Haiti, and elsewhere. Palos are usually associated with the lower class, black and mixed populations. They can be seen in different regions of Dominican Republic, but with variations.\n\nSalsa music has had a great deal of popularity in the country. During the late 1960s Dominican native Johnny Pacheco, creator of the famed Fania All Stars, played a significant role in the music's development and popularization, and is also credited for coining the term \"Salsa\" to denote the genre.\n\nDominican rock is also popular among younger and not so younger crowds of the Dominican Republic. Dominican rock is influenced by British and American rock, but also has its own sense of unique style. The rock scene in the Dominican Republic has been very vibrant in recent years, spanning genres of rock such as pop rock, reggae/rock, and punk. There are also several underground Metal concerts occurring occasionally mainly in the cities of Santo Domingo and Santiago, where teenagers and young adults usually not satisfied with the other genres express themselves.\n\nDominican Republic cuisine is predominantly made up of a combination of Spanish, indigenous Taíno, and African influences. Many Middle-Eastern dishes have been adopted into Dominican cuisine, such as the \"Quipe\" that comes from the Lebanese kibbeh. Dominican cuisine resembles that of other countries in Latin America, those of the nearby islands of Puerto Rico and Cuba, most of all, though the dish names differ sometimes.\n\nA traditional breakfast would consist of mangú, sauteed onions, fried eggs, fried salami, fried cheese and sometimes avocado. This is called \"Los Tres Golpes\" or \"The Three Hits\". As in Spain, the largest, most important meal of the day is lunch. Its most typical form, nicknamed La Bandera (\"The Flag\"), consists of rice, red beans and meat (beef, chicken, pork, or fish), sometimes accompanied by a side of salad.\n\nMeals tend to favor meats and starches over dairy products and vegetables. Many dishes are made with \"sofrito\", which is a mix of local herbs used as a wet rub for meats and sautéed to bring out all of a dish's flavors. Throughout the south-central coast, bulgur, or whole wheat, is a main ingredient in \"quipes\" or \"tipili\" (bulgur salad).\n\nOther favorite Dominican foods are \"chicharrón\", \"yuca\", \"casabe\", \"pastelitos\" (empanadas), \"batata\", yam, \"chaca\" (also called \"maiz caqueao/casqueado\", \"maiz con dulce\" and \"maiz con leche\"), \"chimichurris\", \"tostones\". Some treats Dominicans enjoy are \"arroz con leche\" (or \"arroz con dulce\"), \"bizcocho dominicano\" (lit. Dominican cake), \"habichuelas con dulce\", flan, \"frío frío\" (snow cones), dulce de leche, and \"caña\" (sugarcane). The beverages Dominicans enjoy include \"Morir Soñando\", rum, beer, \"Mama Juana\", \"batida\" (smoothie), jugos naturales (freshly squeezed fruit juices), \"mabí\", and coffee.\n\nBaseball is by far the most popular sport in the Dominican Republic. The country has a baseball league of six teams. The Milwaukee Brewers have a summer league here called the baseball academy. The baseball season usually begins during October and ends in January. After the United States, the Dominican Republic has the second-highest number of Major League Baseball (MLB) players. Ozzie Virgil, Sr. became the first Dominican-born player in the MLB on September 23, 1956. Juan Marichal is the first Dominican-born player in the Baseball Hall of Fame.\n\nThe three highest paid baseball players of all time Alex Rodriguez, Albert Pujols, and Robinson Canó are of Dominican descent. Other notable baseball players from the Dominican Republic are: Julian Javier, Pedro Martínez, Francisco Liriano, Manny Ramírez, José Bautista, Hanley Ramírez, David Ortiz, Ubaldo Jiménez, José Reyes, Alcides Escobar, Plácido Polanco and Sammy Sosa. Felipe Alou has also enjoyed success as a manager, and Omar Minaya as a general manager. In 2013, the Dominican team went undefeated en route to winning the World Baseball Classic.\n\nIn boxing, the Dominican Republic has produced scores of world-class fighters and several world champions. Basketball also enjoys a relatively high level of popularity. Al Horford, Felipe Lopez, and Francisco Garcia are among the Dominican-born players currently or formerly in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Olympic gold medalist and world champion hurdler Félix Sánchez hails from the Dominican Republic, as does NFL defensive end Luis Castillo.\n\nOther important sports include, Volleyball, which was introduced in 1916 by US Marines, is controlled by the Dominican Volleyball Federation. Other sports include taekwondo, in which Gabriel Mercedes is an Olympic silver medalist, and judo.\n\nThe architecture in the Dominican Republic represents a complex blend of diverse cultures. The deep influence of the European colonists is the most evident throughout the country. Characterized by ornate designs and baroque structures, the style can best be seen in the capital city of Santo Domingo, which is home to the first cathedral, castle, monastery, and fortress in all of the Americas, located in the city's Colonial Zone, an area declared as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. The designs carry over into the villas and buildings throughout the country. It can also be observed on buildings that contain stucco exteriors, arched doors and windows, and red tiled roofs.\nThe indigenous peoples of the Dominican Republic have also had a significant influence on the architecture of the country. The Taino people relied heavily on the mahogany and guano (dried palm tree leaf) to put together crafts, artwork, furniture, and houses. Utilizing mud, thatched roofs, and mahogany trees give buildings and the furniture inside a natural look, seamlessly blending in with the island’s surroundings.\n\nLately, with the rise in tourism and increasing popularity as a Caribbean vacation destination, architects in the Dominican Republic have now began to incorporate cutting-edge designs that emphasized luxury. In many ways an architectural playground, villas and hotels implemented new styles, while still offering new takes on the old.\nThis new style, though diverse, is characterized by simplified, angular corners, and large windows that blend outdoor and indoor spaces. As with the culture as a whole, contemporary architects embrace the Dominican Republic’s rich history and various cultures to create something new. Surveying modern villas, one can find any combination of the three major styles: a villa may contain angular, modernist building construction, Spanish Colonial-style arched windows, and a traditional Taino hammock in the bedroom balcony.\nDominican art is perhaps most commonly associated with the bright, vibrant colors and images that are sold in every tourist gift shop across the country. However, the country has a long history of fine art that goes back to the middle of the 1800s when the country became independent and the beginnings of a national art scene emerged.\n\nHistorically, the painting of this time were centered around images connected to national independence, historical scenes, portraits but also landscapes and images of still life. Styles of painting ranged between neoclassicism and romanticism. Between 1920 and 1940 the art scene was influenced by styles of realism and impressionism. Dominican artists were focused on breaking from previous, academic styles in order to develop more independent and individual styles. The artists of the times were Celeste Woss y Gil (1890-1985), Jaime Colson (1901-1975), Yoryi O. Morel (1906-1979) and Darío Suro (1917-1997).\n\nThe 1940s represent an important period in Dominican art. President Rafael Leónidas Trujillo provided asylum for Spanish Civil War refugees and a group of Europeans (including famous artists) subsequently arrived to the DR. They became an inspiration to young Dominican artists who were given a more international perspective on art. The art school Escuela Nacional de Bellas Artes was founded as the first official center for teaching art. The country went through a renaissance heavily inspired by the trends happening in Europe.\n\nBetween 1950 and 1970 Dominican art expressed the social and political conditions of the time. A need for a renewal of the image language emerged and as a result paintings were created in non-figurative, abstract, geometric and cubistic styles. The most notable artists included Paul Giudicelli (1921-1965), Clara Ledesma (1924-1999), Gilberto Hernandez Ortega (1924-1979), Gaspar Mario Cruz (1925-2006), Luichy M. Richiez (1928-2000), Eligio Pichardo (1929-1984), Domingo Liz (1931-), Silvano Lora (1934-2003), Cándido Bidó (1936-2011) and José Ramírez Conde (1940-1987).\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s artists were experimenting again with new styles, forms, concepts and themes. Artists such as Ada Balcácer (1930-), Fernando Peña Defilló (1928-) and Ramón Oviedo (1927-) count as the most influential of the decade.\n\nDominican cinema is an emerging film industry, being one of the first countries in Latin America where the Lumière brothers first brought the Curiel theater in San Felipe de Puerto Plata at the beginning of the century in the year 1900, with the industry's beginnings dating back to 1915 in which the first film is produced in Dominican territory. \n\nThe Dominican Film Market is officially the first film market in the history of the Caribbean Region, DFM was created and produced by filmmakers Roddy Pérez and Nurgul Shayakhmetova, executives of Audiovisual Dominicana. In its first edition, DFM had the support of important international brands such as Panasonic, Nikon and Blackmagic Design, as well as the co-sponsorship of the Directorate General of Cinema DGCINE, the Center for Export and Investment of the Dominican Republic CEI-RD and the Ministry of Tourism of the Dominican Republic.\n\nIn only seven years, the Dominican Republic's fashion week has become the most important event of its kind in all of the Caribbean and one of the fastest growing fashion events in the entire Latin American fashion world. The country boasts one of the ten most important design schools in the region, La Escuela de Diseño de Altos de Chavón, which is making the country a key player in the world of fashion and design.\n\nWorld famous fashion designer Oscar de la Renta was born in the Dominican Republic in 1932 and became a US citizen in 1971. He studied under the leading Spaniard designer Cristóbal Balenciaga and then worked with the house of Lanvin in Paris. Then by 1963, de la Renta had designs carrying his own label. After establishing himself in the US, de la Renta opened boutiques across the country. His work blends French and Spaniard fashion with American styles.\n\nAlthough he settled in New York, de la Renta also marketed his work in Latin America where it became very popular. He remained active in his native Dominican Republic, where his charitable activities and personal achievements earned him the Juan Pablo Duarte Order of Merit and the Order of Cristóbal Colón.\n\nCarnival celebrations are held in the Dominican Republic each February with parades, street dancing, food festivals, and music. Festivities also take place in the week leading up to Easter Sunday. Parades, beauty pageants, and different festivals in each town throughout the country fill the week. In June the country celebrates Espíritu Santo to honor the island's African heritage with nationwide festivals featuring African music.\n\nConcerts, dance troupes, arts and crafts booths, and chefs also celebrate Dominican heritage with an annual cultural festival in Puerto Plata each June. Fiesta Patria de la Restauración, or Restoration Day, celebrates the Dominican Republic's day of independence from Spain, which occurred in 1863. Nationwide events include parades, music festivals, street festivals, and food festivals.\nThree days each June are set aside for the Latin Music Festival in Santo Domingo. Both local and international Latin musicians and bands take the stage. During the last week of July and first week of August Santo Domingo hosts some of the world's top merengue bands at the Festival del Merengue. Other events during the two-week-long party include and food festival and an arts and crafts festival.\n\nThe merengue festival takes place in July in both Santo Domingo and Puerto Plata. This week-long bacchanal raises the <nowiki>\"</nowiki>merengue<nowiki>\"</nowiki> and the costumes worn by the dancers to an art form. The dancers dance in the street and on open stages and compete for an array of honors that recoqnize originality, fluidity, and beauty of the chorography. Posters that are designed to advertise the festival compete for originality and beauty. The crowds who come to watch the dancing and the parades that take place in the evening also dance.\n\nOctober's Puerto Plata Festival brings musicians from around the country together to perform live music in a variety of genres. Blues, jazz, folk, salsa, and merengue are the most common. Another musical event takes place in October during Columbus Day Weekend: the Dominican Republic Jazz Festival. Concerts are held in Puerto Plata, Sosua, and Cabarete, and feature some of the country's top jazz musicians and bands.\n\nOther festivals include the Festivales del Santo Cristo de Bayaguana on New Years Day. Events leading up to Mass include a parade, music, and dance. Each January the Dominican Republic honors Juan Pablo Duarte with gun salutes in Santo Domingo and numerous carnivals throughout the country. Duarte is celebrated as the man who gained independence from Haiti for the Dominican Republic. The premier culinary event in all of the Caribbean is Taste SD, which takes place in October of each year.\n\nDuring the event, hundreds of restaurants, food vendors, chefs, and others on the culinary scene host a series of presentations, tastings, and more. The event stretches out over several days and venues and is known to attract several thousand guests. The main event, unveiled in 2012, is the Culinary Cup of the Americas in which chefs participate in several cooking and baking events hoping to win the top prize. Another event is the Dominican Republic International Film Festival. During four days each December, independent films, shorts, and documentaries are screened.\n\n\"Notes\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57062725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57062725", "title": "Day in the life", "text": "Day in the life\n\nDay in the life (or a day in the life, or day in the life of) is a genre of storytelling in which the events occurring in the life of the subject or subjects are those occurring in single day of their life. \n\nSuch storytelling is sometimes used as a form of journalism, where \"[a] day-in-the-life story records the activities of someone through a period of time—such as the length of a day. The videojournalist shoots everything in hopes of capturing revealing details\". The genre can be used to give the reader or viewer the sense of a typical day in the life of the subject without actually taking a day to present this material:\n\nAlthough a day in the life story may present a distinct crisis arising and being dealt with, \"some of the writers of these stories feel they are an exploration into the human condition and relationships, that a day in the life of a character, without a Climax and Resolution, is just as valid a storytelling model\". A \"day in the life\" story could therefore also be a slice of life story, depicting the routine events of the life of the subject, although a slice of life story is not necessarily restricted to events occurring in the course of a single day.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189598", "title": "Dead Man's Chest", "text": "Dead Man's Chest\n\n\"Dead Man's Chest\" (also known as \"Fifteen Men On The Dead Man's Chest\" or \"Derelict\") is a fictional sea song, originally from Robert Louis Stevenson's novel \"Treasure Island\" (1883). It was expanded in a poem, titled \"Derelict\" by Young E. Allison, published in the \"Louisville Courier-Journal\" in 1891. It has since been used in many later works of art in various forms.\n\nStevenson found the name \"Dead Man's Chest\" among a list of Virgin Island names in a book by Charles Kingsley, possibly in reference to the Dead Chest Island off Peter Island in the British Virgin Islands. As Stevenson once said, \"\"Treasure Island\" came out of Kingsley's \"At Last: A Christmas in the West Indies\" (1871); where I got the 'Dead Man's Chest'—that was the seed.\" That is, Stevenson saw the three words \"Dead Man's Chest\" in Kingsley's book among a list of names, germinating in Stevenson's mind it was the \"seed\", which then grew into the novel.\n\nIn \"Treasure Island\" Stevenson only wrote the chorus, leaving the remainder of the song unwritten, and to the reader's imagination:\n\nAnother lyric in the novel, near its end:\n\nStevenson does not make clear if this lyric is part of Dead Man's Chest or another fictional song entirely. Regardless, the words of the lyric help advance the storyline.\n\nOther variations of the poem were printed in the late 19th and early 20th centuries that claimed to be folklore, but in reality were nothing more than new extensions from Stevenson's original. One appeared in the Chicago \"Times-Herald\" named \"Stevenson's Sailor Song\" by an anonymous author, who claimed to hear it being sung on the \"wharfs of Chicago\" by a group of \"old time sailors\", who when asked where they learned it, replied 'We never learned it nowhere, we allers knowed it.' The story was meant as a hoax but some took it seriously. Another appeared in print as \"Billy Bones's Fancy\", supposedly pieced together from various \"fragments\", suggesting an antiquated origin, but in fact it was an adaptation of the \"Times-Herald\" piece. As Stevenson's stepson Osbourne once said, \"'Fifteen-Men' was wholly original with Stevenson,\" and as Stevenson himself said, the book \"At Last\" by Kingsley was \"the seed\" of his invention.\nThe song has been widely used in the arts for over a century. In 1901 music was added to the lyrics of \"Derelict\" by Henry Waller for a Broadway rendition of \"Treasure Island\". In the 1954 film \"Return to Treasure Island\", starring Robert Newton, the song was sung in the opening credits, and instrumentally as the thematic background to the action. In the 1959 television series \"The Adventures of Long John Silver\"—again starring Robert Newton—it was, although only in instrumental version, the series' theme song played both at the beginning and the end of each episode. In 1967, writers for the Walt Disney film company found inspiration in \"Derelict\" for the sea-song \"Yo Ho (A Pirate's Life for Me)\", which was played in the \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" theme ride at Disneyland. Astrid Lindgren expanded Stevenson's couplet differently in the script for the 1969 \"Pippi Longstocking\" TV series; the two resulting verses were sung to a West Indian sea shanty. Alan Moore made a play on the song in the 1986 graphic novel \"Watchmen\"; the chapter is called \"One man on fifteen dead men's chests.\" In 1993, the contemporary \"pirate\" vocal group, The Jolly Rogers, recorded Mark Stahl's arrangement of Young E. Allison's lyrics, re-released in 1997 on their CD titled \"Pirate Gold\". A rendition was recorded by the steampunk band Abney Park as \"The Derelict\". In the second \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" film, Master Gibbs sang the original version from \"Treasure Island\"—a fourth wall joke, as the film was called \"\".\n\nIn German, the song is sometimes known as \"17 Mann auf des toten Manns Kiste\", so it mentions two more men, or sometimes as \"13 Mann\", mentioning two fewer, most prominently in Michael Ende's Jim Knopf stories. Likewise, in the Hungarian translation of \"Treasure Island\", the phrase is \"seven (men) on a dead man's chest\"; apparently these numbers provided the closest effect to the original regarding rhyme and syllables in English.\n\nMany authors have written prequels and sequels to \"Treasure Island\". One such example is R. F. Delderfield's \"The Adventures of Ben Gunn\", in which Ben tells Jim Hawkins that the song is a reference to \"an island of the Leewards\" which \"was little more than a long, high rock, shaped like a coffin\" which was nicknamed \"Dead Man's Chest\". In Delderfield's story, the song is about 15 pirates who shipwrecked there who had salvaged many barrels of rum but almost no food, and were \"all raving drunk\" upon their rescue.\n\n"}
{"id": "2660846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2660846", "title": "Diving Adventure", "text": "Diving Adventure\n\nDiving Adventure is a 1970 children's book by the Canadian-born American author Willard Price featuring his \"Adventure\" series characters, Hal and Roger Hunt. It depicts their exploits in a futuristic underwater city.\n"}
{"id": "769512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=769512", "title": "Ducat", "text": "Ducat\n\nThe ducat was a gold or silver coin used as a trade coin in Europe from the later Middle Ages until as late as the 20th century. Many types of ducats had various metallic content and purchasing power throughout the period. The gold ducat of Venice gained wide international acceptance, like the medieval Byzantine hyperpyron and the Florentine florin, or the modern British Pound sterling and the United States dollar.\n\nThe word \"ducat\" is from Medieval Latin \"ducalis\" = \"relating to a duke (or dukedom)\", and initially meant \"duke's coin\" or a \"duchy's coin\".\n\nThe first issue of scyphate billon coins modelled on Byzantine \"trachea\" was made by King Roger II of Sicily as part of the Assizes of Ariano (1140). It was to be a valid issue for the whole kingdom. The first issue bears the figure of Christ and the Latin inscription \"Sit tibi, Christe, datus, quem tu regis iste ducatus\" (meaning \"O Christ, let this duchy, which you rule, be dedicated to you\") on the obverse. On the reverse, Roger II is depicted in the style of a Byzantine emperor and his eldest son, Duke Roger III of Apulia, is depicted in battle dress. The coin took its common name from the Duchy of Apulia, which the younger Roger had been given by his father.\n\nDoge Enrico Dandolo of Venice introduced a silver ducat which was related to the ducats of Roger II. Later gold ducats of Venice, however, became so important that the name ducat was associated exclusively with them and the silver coins came to be called grossi.\n\nIn the 13th century, the Venetians imported goods from the East and sold them at a profit north of the Alps. They paid for these goods with Byzantine gold coins but when the Byzantine emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos backed a rebellion called the Sicilian Vespers in 1282, he debased the hyperpyron. This was just one more in a series of debasements of the hyperpyron and the Great Council of Venice responded with its own coin of pure gold in 1284.\n\nFlorence and Genoa had introduced gold coins in 1252 and the florin of Florence had become the standard European gold coin. Venice modeled the size and weight of their ducat on the florin, with a slight increase in weight due to differences in the two cities′ weight systems. The Venetian ducat contained 3.545 grams of 99.47% fine gold, the highest purity medieval metallurgy could produce.\nGold ducat types derive from silver ducat types, which were ultimately Byzantine. The obverse shows the Doge of Venice kneeling before St. Mark, the patron saint of Venice. Saint Mark holds the gospel, which is his usual attribute, and presents a gonfalone to the doge. The legend on the left identifies the saint as S M VENET, i.e. Saint Mark of Venice, and the legend on the right identifies the doge, with his title DVX in the field. On the reverse, Christ stands among a field of stars in an oval frame. The reverse legend is the same as on Roger II’s ducats.\n\nSucceeding doges of Venice continued striking ducats, changing only their name on the obverse. During the 15th century, the value of the ducat in terms of silver money was stable at 124 Venetian soldi, i.e. schillings. The term ducat became identified with this amount of silver money as well as the gold coin. Conflict between England and Spain in 1567, however, increased the price of gold and upset this equivalence. At this point, the coin was called the \"ducato de zecca\", i.e. ducat of the mint, which was shortened to \"zecchino\" and corrupted to \"sequin\". Leonardo Loredan extended the coinage with a half ducat and subsequent doges added a quarter, and various multiples up to 105 ducats. All of these coins continued to use the designs and weight standards of the original 1284 ducat. Even after dates became a common feature of western coinage, Venice struck ducats without them until Napoleon ended the Venetian Republic in 1797.\n\nWhen the Roman Senate introduced gold coinage either the florin or the ducat could have provided an advantageous model to imitate, but the Florentines who controlled the Senate’s finances ensured that their city’s coin was not copied. Instead, the Roman coin showed a senator kneeling before St. Peter on the obverse and Christ amid stars in oval frame on the reverse in direct imitation of the Venetian ducat. The Popes subsequently changed these designs, but continued to strike ducats of the same weight and size into the 16th century.\n\nMost imitations of the Venetian ducat were made in the Levant, where Venice spent more money than it received. The Knights of Saint John struck ducats with grand master Dieudonné de Gozon, 1346-1353, kneeling before Saint John on the obverse and an angel seated on the Sepulcher of Christ on the reverse. Subsequent grand masters, however, found it expedient to copy the Venetian types more exactly, first at Rhodes and then on Malta. Genoese traders went farther. They struck ducats at Chios that could be distinguished from the Venetian originals only by their workmanship. These debased ducats were problematic for Venice, which valued its money's reputation for purity. The rarity of ducats that Genoese traders struck at Mytilene, Phocaea, and Pera suggests that Venetians melted those they encountered.\n\nIn Western Europe, Venice was an active trader but they sold more than they bought so their coins were less used than the florin. After Henckels assassinated Amadeus Aba in 1311, Charles I of Hungary began a gold coinage exploiting ores of Aba's ancient gold mines. His son, Louis I of Hungary changed the designs by replacing the standing figure of Saint John from the florin with a standing figure of Saint Ladislaus and later changing the lily of Florence to his coat of arms, but he maintained the purity of the gold. In the 15th century, a distinction was made between pure gold florins and debased imitations of the florin by calling the pure coins ducats and the debased coins gulden or goldgulden. The Holy Roman Emperor Charles V recognized this distinction in 1524 when he made ducats of the Venetian standard valid money in the Empire with a value 39% higher than the gulden. His younger brother and eventual successor, Ferdinand I, brought this system to Hungary in 1526, when he inherited its throne. The still-pure gold coins of Hungary were henceforth called ducats. Their purity made the Hungarian ducat acceptable throughout Europe. Even the Lord High Treasurer of Scotland left records of the ones his king used for gambling.\n\nHungary continued to strike ducats with 3.53133 grams of 98.6% fine gold. Unlike the unchanging designs of the ducats in Venice, the coat of arms on the reverse of the ducats of Hungary was frequently modified to reflect changed circumstances. In 1470, Matthias Corvinus replaced the coat of arms by a Madonna. Hungary struck ducats until 1915, even under Austrian rule. These were used as trade coins and several of the later dates have been restruck.\n\nThe Dutch Revolt gave its seven northern provinces control of their coinage. The collapse of the government of Francis of Anjou in 1583, however, left them without a constitutional ruler to name on those coins. They fell back on the longstanding regional tradition of imitating well accepted foreign coins. In this case they avoided political complications by copying obsolete coins. The gold coins Ferdinand and Isabella issued to the standards of the ducat were widely copied and called ducats. They also imitated the Hungarian ducat and those coins had more influence on the subsequent coinage of the United Provinces. Since the Netherlands became a dominant international trader, the influence of these ducats was global.\nAt first, ducats of Hungarian type struck in the Netherlands had a standing figure on the obverse with the crown and battle axe that St. Ladislaus carried on the Hungarian prototype, but naming him with a different legend. Like the original, but not contemporary, Hungarian ducats, the reverse had a shield, which now showed the coat of arms of the issuing province. These types evolved into a standing knight holding a sword and seven arrows representing the seven provinces in the union. The legend, CONCORDIA RES PARVÆ CRESCUNT, shortened in a variation of ways, says “by concord small things increase”. It also names —or shows a symbol representing— the province that issued the coin. The reverse had a tablet inscribed and always shortened in the same way: MOneta ORDInum PROVINciarum FOEDERatorum BELGicarum AD LEGem IMPerii, gold money of the federated provinces of Belgium in accordance with the law of the realm. In the Napoleonic period, the Batavian Republic and Louis Bonaparte continued to strike ducats with these designs. These coins were not issued during the annexation of the Netherlands into the French Empire. Since Napoleon’s defeat, the Kingdom of the Netherlands has continued to issue them as trade and bullion coins. The text in the table on the reverse now says MOneta AURea REGni BELGII AD LEGEM IMPERII.\n\nDuring the 15th century, international traders in Western Europe shifted from the florin to the ducat as their preferred currency. As rulers reformed their currencies, they most frequently used the ducat as a model. The Mamluk ashrafi, the Ottoman altun, and the Castilian ducat are examples. Coinage reforms of The Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian initiated coinage of gold ducats in Austria in 1511. Austria continued to strike ducats until 1915, and has continued to restrike the last of them, including some four ducat coins illustrated here. Nevertheless, bullion for Spain's American colonies allowed the Spanish dollar to supersede the ducat as the dominant currency of world trade.\n\nAround 1913, the gold ducat was worth the equivalent of \"nine shillings and four pence sterling, or somewhat more than two dollars. The silver ducat is of about half this value.\" Even now some national mints produce batches of ducats made after old patterns as bullion gold and banks sell these coins to private investors or collectors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10432306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10432306", "title": "Duck tour", "text": "Duck tour\n\nDuck tours are tours that take place on purpose-built amphibious tour buses or military surplus DUKWs and LARC-Vs. Duck tours are primarily offered as tourist attractions in harbor, river and lake cities.\n\nThe first \"duck tour\" company was started in 1946 by Mel Flath and Bob Unger in Wisconsin Dells, Wisconsin. Flath's company has changed ownership since, but it is still in operation under the name Original Wisconsin Ducks. His family continues to operate a duck company called the Dells Army Ducks in the Wisconsin Dells Area.\n\nDUKWs operated by Boston Duck Tours have been used eleven times since 2002 for \"rolling rallies\" to celebrate sports championships by New England-based local pro sports teams. There have been five for New England Patriots (2002, 2004, 2005, 2015, 2017), four for the Boston Red Sox (2004, 2007, 2013, 2018), one for the Boston Celtics (2008), and one for the Boston Bruins (2011). The Duck Boats were first planned to be used for the New England Patriots in 1997 however they did not win Super Bowl XXXI. While much of the parade routes over the years consisted of the DUKWs staying on land, some featured the DUKWs traversing both the land and across the Charles River. \nThe Seafair Pirates in Seattle use a DUKW \"Moby Duck\" modified to look like a Spanish Galleon as their primary means of amphibious transport.\n\nWindsor Duck Tours operates a new build version of on a DUKW type Amphibious Passenger Vessel (APV) called a Seahorse which looks like the old Wartime DUKW but has many new safety features. There are plans for new tours using the Seahorse APVs both at the Falkirk Wheel and in Glasgow.\n\nViking Splash Tours in Dublin operate 6 Dukws in Dublin City using a Viking theme as a basis for the tour encouraging passengers to wear Viking helmets and 'raid' the city by roaring at 'the Celts'.\n\nAlmost all have since been repainted and given modern diesel engines, and some have enclosed tops, making them more resemble conventional buses. Others are warm-weather only, open-air vehicles, with an optional canopy. Most require a bus-type Public Service Vehicle license and a passenger-use boat license.\n\nIn Australia at the Rainforestation Nature Park at Kuranda in Queensland a fleet of DUKWs are used to take visitors through a typical rain forest environment. The DUKWs travel along a tight twisty track through the forest before entering a small lake where their amphibious capabilities are demonstrated.\nA heavily modified DUKW called \"Normandie\" has been in use at the Koksijde seaside (Belgium) for a number of decades, as a tourist sea excursion vehicle.\n\nSan Francisco's 'Bay Quackers' operated from 2004 until 2011, splashing into San Francisco Bay near AT&T Park in modified DUKWs. They were targeted in a lawsuit by 'Ride the Ducks' for use of the quacker kazoos in a sound mark infringement case, however the lawsuit was later dropped. \n\nLiverpool's 'Yellow Duckmarine' tours had 4 DUKWs in 2014, of which one saw service in the D-day landings. These are no longer operating due to the liquidation of the company.\n\nThere was also a Duck offering rides at Instow in Devon. It was built on Jersey in 1998 and operated as a ferry taking passengers to Elizabeth Castle until 2006. The operator in Jersey had three – the other two have gone to Krakow and Berlin.\n\nLondon's \"London Duck Tours limited\" owned 13 vessels prior to 2017, of which some saw action in D-day. They were operating DUKWs in the UK but closed on 18 September 2017.\n\nOn May 1, 1999 a DUKW called the Miss Majestic sank in Hot Springs, Arkansas, killing 13 of the 20 people on board. The NTSB listed the cause of the accident as a loose rubber seal near the drive shaft.\n\nOn June 23, 2002, the \"Lady Duck\", a custom-built vehicle converted from a Ford F-350 pickup truck, sank while on a cruise on the Ottawa River in Ontario, Canada. Six passengers, the driver, and the tour guide escaped, but four passengers were trapped under the sunken vehicle's canopy and drowned. A review found problems with regulating such vehicles and defects in the makeshift design and the emergency procedures.\n\nOn September 17, 2007, a duck boat operated by Alaska Amphibious Tours in Ketchikan, Alaska struck and killed a woman walking on the dock. \n\nOn July 7, 2010, a regulated and modern Ride the Ducks amphibious bus (based on the original DUKW design and using an original DUKW chassis), was disabled by an engine fire and later run over by a barge on the Delaware River in Philadelphia. The operator of the tug pushing the barge was on his personal cell phone. Before the accident the Ride The Ducks captain made numerous calls to the tug to get the tug to change course. Those calls were heard and rebroadcast by other vessels, but there was no response from the operator of the tug. Thirty-three passengers and two crew members were quickly recovered, but two passengers, a 20-year-old man and a 16-year-old girl, both part of a tour group from Hungary, were killed. The NTSB determined that the probable cause of the accident was the tugboat mate's (responsible for driving the tug at the time) inattention to his duties. The tugboat mate was sentenced to 366 days in federal prison.\n\nOn May 8, 2015, a modern Ride the Ducks boat with an original DUKW chassis struck and killed a woman crossing the street in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania's Chinatown section. Witnesses at the scene say that the woman was distracted by her handheld tablet device and walked into the street against the red light and was struck while in the boat's front center blind spot. Although the police determined the driver was not at fault, the victim's husband sued the company and the city, saying that the blind spots of the vehicle and the placement of the traffic light contributed to her death. The lawsuit was settled in 2017 for an undisclosed amount.\n\nOn September 24, 2015, a modern Ride the Ducks vehicle with an original DUKW chassis in Seattle, Washington crashed into a charter bus on the Aurora Bridge, killing five passengers on the bus, critically injuring eight, and seriously injuring eight more. Punitive damages were disallowed from the resulting civil suit. The city and state settled their lawsuits surrounding the safety of the bridge for $4.4 million.\n\nOn April 30, 2016, in Boston, Massachusetts, the Penelope Pru, a modern Boston Duck Tours vehicle with an old military jeep chassis based off the original DUKW design struck a motor scooter as both vehicles were turning right onto Beacon Street adjacent to the Boston Common. The 29-year-old woman operating the motor scooter was killed, and her male passenger was injured. A post-accident visibility study found that the motor scooter was not visible over the bow of the amphibious vehicle when the two vehicles were very close, but was visible in two convex blind spot mirrors mounted to the bow.\n\nOn July 19, 2018, near Branson, Missouri, 17 people died and as many as 11 were injured after a DUKW capsized during a severe thunderstorm. 29 passengers and two crew members were on the boat.\n\nIn 2010 a bearing collapsed on a DUKW belonging to The Yellow Duckmarine which resulted in four passengers, including an 80-year-old person, being taken to hospital with injuries.\nOn 11 October 2011 a motorcyclist was critically injured after a Seattle 'Ride The Ducks' vehicle hit and dragged him at a red light. Ride The Ducks has been involved in two other collisions in recent years, in December 2010 and June 2011, when different Duck drivers rear-ended passenger vehicles at Third Avenue and Pike Street and at Aurora Avenue North and Denny Way. No one was injured, but both Duck drivers told officers they didn’t see the cars because of the height of their own vehicles, according to the collision reports.\n\nOn 30 March 2013 a duck boat of The Yellow Duckmarine in Liverpool sank in the city's Salthouse Dock during a tour. All passengers were safely transferred to a pontoon before the vehicle began to sink. In June 2013 another duck boat, operated by the same company, sank in the Albert Dock as it came to the end of a tour of Liverpool. Passengers were forced to jump into the water as the vehicle rapidly took on water. Some were rescued by vessels while others swam to the side of the dock. Out of the 31 people on board, 27 were treated in hospital for minor injuries. The incident resulted in the Maritime and Coastguard Agency withdrawing all safety certificates for the craft owned by Pearlwild and their entering administration. Pearlwild are also under investigation by the North West Traffic Commissioner over the operation of the Duckmarines during 2012.\n\nOn 29 September 2013 a duck boat on the River Thames in London caught fire. Thirty people were rescued, a number of them after having jumped into the River Thames to escape the fire. An investigation by the Marine Accident Investigation Branch determined that the fire had been caused by ignition of additional buoyancy foam added to the DUKW following the Liverpool incident, due to obstruction of airflow within the mechanical compartments and friction between the foam and moving parts.\n\nThe phrase \"duck tour\" and the duck cartoon have been deemed generic and not trademark-able by the First Circuit Court of Appeals in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "9171174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9171174", "title": "Elizabethan leisure", "text": "Elizabethan leisure\n\nIn the Elizabethan era (1558–1603), there was a wide range of leisure activities entertaining both the nobility and the common classes. Among these leisure activities were animal fighting, team sports, individual sports, games, dramatics, music and the arts.\n\nA variety of pastimes which would now be considered blood sports were popular. Cock fighting was a common pastime, and the bets on this game could amount to thousands of pounds, an exorbitant amount of money in those days, and many respectable gentlemen lost all their money this way. Henry VIII had a royal cockpit built at one of his palaces.\n\nYoung boys on Shrove Tuesday would normally bring in their own fighting rooster and would spend the afternoon at school placing bets on which rooster would win. The most famous cock-pit in London was in Drury Lane, and most towns and villages had their own pit. \n\nThere were other common animal sports: bear-baiting, bullfighting, dog fighting, and cock throwing.\nBowls was also extremely popular in the Elizabethan era.\n\nVarious types of hunting were popular with the nobility. The stag, boar, roe, buck, badgers, otters, hares, and foxes were also hunted. Greyhounds and Irish Wolfhounds were common for hunting.\n\nFor the upper class, hawking was a popular sport. Much time was spent on training a hawk or falcon, and keeping it in good condition, requiring many pieces of expensive, specialized equipment, making it too expensive for the lower classes. \n\nQueen Elizabeth I was very fond of both hunting and hawking \n\nElizabethan style football was comparable to the present-day sports of rugby union and rugby league. Two teams rushed against each other, trying to get the \"ball\" in through the goalposts. \"Cudgels\" was also a popular sport among young men. A type of stick fighting, it was a sport effectively training for sword fighting, but using wooden wasters or simple cudgels.\n\nRunning, jumping, fencing, jousting, archery, and skittles were also practiced, with fishing as the most relaxing and harmless pastime.\n\nChildren enjoyed playing leap-frog, blind man's bluff and hide-and-seek, which are enjoyed by many children throughout Britain even today.\n\nElizabethans enjoyed playing cards, with a game called \"triumph\" (modern day whist) being popular. Dice, backgammon and draughts were also played. Men mostly played these games as it was deemed inappropriate for a woman to gamble; however, Queen Elizabeth the first enjoyed playing cards and was an avid gambler.\n\nMusic was greatly enjoyed throughout this era, as seen through quite a few family evenings including musical performances. Children were taught to sing and dance at a very early age and became used to performing in public during such evenings. Keyboard instruments such as harpsichords, clavichords, dulcimers and virginals were played. Woodwind instruments like woodys, crumhorns, flutes and stringed instruments such as lutes and rebecs were also widely used.\n\nCourt dances included the Pavane and Galliard, the Almain and the Lavolta, whilst among popular dances were the Branle, \"The Barley-Break\" (a setting by William Byrd is in My Ladye Nevells Booke), \"Nobody’s Jig\" (of which a version was set by Richard Farnaby) and the \"Shake-a-Trot\".\n\nThe plays were an extremely popular pastime, with William Shakespeare's plays taking the lead in audience. Quite a few theatres were built in and around London at this time including \"The Globe\", \"The Swan\" and \"The Fortune\". Little scenery was used but props were used widely. The props were quite realistic, with innards of pigs being strewn across the stage when a man's body was shown to be cut open.\n"}
{"id": "41017557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41017557", "title": "Essays in French Literature and Culture", "text": "Essays in French Literature and Culture\n\nEssays in French Literature and Culture is an annual peer-reviewed academic journal published by the University of Western Australia. It was established in 1964 by James R. Lawler, the Foundation Chair of French Studies at this university. The journal focuses on French Studies, in a broad sense. From its inception, the journal’s main aim has been \"to draw attention to broader aspects of French literary culture\". The Journal is currently available in print and online.\n\nThe journal was established in 1964 by James R. Lawler.\nIn 1975, the journal's editorship passed on to Denis Boak who, in a commemorative issue celebrating the journal's fiftieth anniversary, argues that \"Essays in French Literature\" was a \"free-standing intellectual endeavour\" providing \"an extra outlet for young scholars to publish\". He was succeeded by Andrew Hunwick in 1995. Hélène Jaccomard took over in 2007.<br>A growing interest in cultural studies in the field of French studies led to a widening of the scope of the journal and its renaming in 2008. The new title reflects this wider emphasis on culture.<br>\nIn the context of the crisis in academic publishing, and as one of only two French Studies academic journals in Australia, Essays in French Literature and Culture has shown a remarkable ability to survive thanks to the quality of the articles it stringently selects, and its widening readership which is its only financial means of support.<br>\nThe journal's importance is acknowledged by the Australian Society of French Studies and Informit database.\n\nProf. Hélène Jaccomard, Managing Editor<br>\nAssociate Professor Bonnie Thomas, Associate Editor<br>\nDr Rosemary Lancaster, The University of Western Australia <br>\nProf. Peter Morgan, The University of Sydney<br>\nProf. Srilata Ravi, University of Alberta<br>\nDr Jean-Marie Volet, The University of Western Australia\n\nIn the first forty years of its existence, the journal published essays spontaneously submitted to the Editors. Since 2007 many issues have been thematic and guest edited by experts in the field. All the contributions go through a thorough double-blind evaluation by independent assessors.\nThemes recently covered by the journal:\n\n- issue nr 45: Foreign? Writing in French (2008)<br>\n- issue nr 46 : Sports (2009)<br>\n- issue nr 47 and 48: Landscape and Memory (2010 and 2011)<br>\n- issue nr 49: The Paratext (2012)<br>\n- issue nr 50: Playtime (2013)<br>\n- issue nr 51: Représenter la Grande Guerre: les écrivains et les artistes face à l’épreuve (1914-1920) (2014)<br>\n- issue nr 52: Diaspora, Afropolitanism and Congolese Literature (2015)<br>\n- issue nr 53: Conflict, dialogue and representation (2016)<br>\n- issue nr 54: Hidden Words, Hidden Worlds (France 1939-1945) (2017)<br>\n\nHélène Jaccomard, Introduction<br>\nBertrand Bourgeois and Jade Patterson, From Emma to Gemma, or how to play with Madame Bovary<br>\nAndrea Jonsson, Acousmatic, Atmospheric, in Transit: The Authority of Anonymous Women’s Voices in Contemporary French Literature and Culture<br>\nChristie Margrave, Early Developments of Ecofeminist Thought in French Women’s Early Romantic Fiction<br>\nElizabeth H. Jones, Contesting Gender Roles and Resisting the Hierarchy: Writing the Father in Malika Mokeddem’s Mes Hommes<br>\nSura Qadiri, Policing Postsecular Paris: Karim Miské’s Arab Jazz and Sabri Louatah’s Les Sauvages I-IV<br>\nAudrey Small, Immigrants and Expatriates: Status, Agency and Home in the early work of Fatou Diome<br>\nShuangyi Li, Translingualism and Autoexotic Translation in Shan Sa’s Franco-Chinese Historical Novels<br>\nJean-Michel Gouvard, Watt de Samuel Beckett et la France des années 1940<br>\nGary D. Mole, La Seconde Guerre mondiale et le roman français contemporain<br>\nDavid Spieser-Landes, Repoliticizing May 68: Postnationality and Postcoloniality in French (Alsatian) Regional Minority Literature<br>\nSophie Patrick, Michel Houellebecq’s pre-1968 nostalgia and imagined futures<br>\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in the Emerging Sources Citation Index, and EBSCO and ProQuest databases.\n\n"}
{"id": "58641243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58641243", "title": "Followed (film)", "text": "Followed (film)\n\nFollowed is a 2018 supernatural horror found-footage film written by Todd Klick and directed by Antoine Le in his feature directorial debut. The film is told almost entirely through a single screencast, in which a sequence of vlogs being watched on a website chronicle the events of the plot. It stars Matthew Solomon as DropTheMike, a controversial vlogger and social media celebrity, who is haunted by strange forces when he takes his weekly vlog to a reputably cursed hotel in order to gain more subscribers. It co-stars John Savage, Sam Valentine, Tim Drier, Caitlin Grace and Kelsey Paul, and is produced by Viscape Arts in association with Branded Pictures Entertainment. The film had its world premiere at Burbank International Film Festival on September 7th, 2018 where it won the award for Best Horror/Thriller Feature Film.\n\nA log-in box appears against black background on a video screen capture. In the recording, an unknown silhouetted user, seen via webcam, clicks through the computer's start-up functions. The user plugs in a USB flash drive, begins the transfer of a video file to the desktop, and opens the web browser, searching for \"drop the mike\". The user surfs through clickbait articles delivering news regarding the recent disappearance of controversial vlogger-of-the-macabre, DropTheMike (Matthew Solomon), whose last vlogs chronicle his stay at the Hotel Lennox, a reputably haunted hotel in Downtown Los Angeles. The user follows the link to the vlogger's website and watches the last few of his video uploads on the site.\n\nBefore his stay, DropTheMike is offered a $250,000 sponsorship from clothing retailer \"Haute Gothic\" if he can gain 50,000 subscribers by Halloween night in two weeks. He recruits three of his friends, Chris (Tim Drier) as director of photography, Danni (Sam Valentine) as Sound/Additional Camera, and Nic (Caitlin Grace) as on-site editor, to help him document a Halloween-special vlog at the Hotel Lennox. After an expository visit with Wallace Fleischer (John Savage), an author on the subject, Mike, Danni, Nic and Chris drive to the hotel where they attempt to stay for three nights.\n\nDropTheMike shows his subscribers where some of the historically famous deaths took place, and reveals that they will be staying in the same room that 1980's serial killer, David Olmos (Ethan Alexander) lived while committing his murders. DropTheMike also unsuccessfully attempts to break into the hotel basement where just three years earlier Canadian tourist, Meghan Kim's body was found dehydrated and burnt in the hotel's heating system after complaints of a bad smell coming from the vents. There they meet a security guard (Christopher Martin) who happens to be a fan of DropTheMike's and promises to try to steal the basement key from the manager so that Mike can vlog in the boiler room. When DropTheMike asks if he can tell them anything about Meghan Kim's death, he suggests they research the Elevator Game.\n\nDropTheMike researches and plays the Elevator Game, an urban legend that if one enters an elevator alone and goes to different floors in a specific sequence, one can communicate with, or even find themselves in, another dimension. The game was played by Meghan Kim (Sarah Chang) who was photographed by elevator surveillance by pressing the specific sequence of floor buttons of the game backwards before she was found dead. DropTheMike plays the game alone and encounters what seems to be her ghost.\n\nUnsure if the encounter was really her ghost or a plant to make him think that, DropTheMike returns to the hotel room where he shows Danni and Chris the footage. As the friends debate the authenticity of the sighting, a phantom stranger bangs on their doors immediately followed by DropTheMike getting a video chat call from his fiancee Jess (Kelsey Paul) telling him that she's pregnant.\n\nAfter a brief celebration of the news, the crew hear what sounds like fingernails digging into the wall from next door, where Nic has been ostracizing herself to edit the vlogs. Chris investigates, finding Nic in a disturbed, self-harmful state. Nic tells him to leave her alone and when he returns to Danni and DropTheMike, the team are haunted by a succession of increasingly hostile entities.\n\nChris, Danni and Nic leave the hotel one-by-one as their lives become increasingly in danger and by the third day, DropTheMike is left alone at the hotel while still holding onto the hope of finishing the series to procure the final subscriber count required by Haute Gothic. The security guard provides DropTheMike the key to the basement and in a 10-minute-long live recording, DropTheMike descends to the lowest level of the hotel where he finds a laptop watching his live broadcast in real-time. Mike is pursued by what seem like ghosts in the basement and escapes through the lobby, running into Skid Row where the broadcast feed is cut off.\n\nIn one more live broadcast recorded a few days after his stay at the Lennox, DropTheMike announces he will take a sabbatical from filming the vlog to pursue filming a documentary on the homelessness issues in Los Angeles. Mid-apology the lights shut off and DropTheMike hears a banging on the door. He follows the sound of Jess screaming at him to \"get out\". The entities that pursued him in the basement appear at the door, holding a decapitated head in hand. The live feed is again cut short as DropTheMike screams, realizing that the head they are holding belongs to Jess.\n\nThe computer user, having reached the conclusion of the DropTheMike video uploads, clicks on a video recommended by the website's casting service. It goes to the website of a teen vlogger who goes by the handle TerribleTyler (David Nesler). In the vlog, TerribleTyler crosses police tape into DropTheMike's house promising his subscribers information on what happened to DropTheMike. The user subscribes to the channel and types in the comment section: \"Can't wait to meet you, Tyler :)\". The comment's user handle is TheRealDropTheMike.\n\nThe computer user logs out as the comment is flooded with likes and reply comments. The user leans into the webcam revealing their identity at which point the screencast and movie end abruptly.\n\nProducers, Antoine Le, Todd Klick, Matthew Brewbaker and Greg Berlant developed the story together basing \"Followed\"'s fictional Lennox Hotel on the Cecil Hotel, famous for its many instances of death and violence, including the death of Elisa Lam, as well as murders by serial killers Jack Unterweger and Richard Ramirez. The producers were also inspired by Creepypasta, and based the main character, DropTheMike, on famous vloggers such as Logan Paul and PewDiePie, who seemingly use controversy to attract subscribers to their platforms.\n\nIn order to accurately depict realistic personalities needed for a found-footage film, the producers auditioned and cast Matthew Solomon as DropTheMike, Caitlin Grace as Nic and Tim Drier as Chris before the script was written. Once these roles were cast, writer, Todd Klick, then used the actors’ specific mannerisms and approach to the characters as a guideline for his script.\n\n\"Followed\" was filmed in 12 days on a 144-page script. Two separate hotel locations were used to depict the \"Hotel Lennox\": the Hayward Manor Apartments in Downtown Los Angeles, and the Hotel Normandie in Koreatown, Los Angeles. Locations also included Skid Row where homelessness was used as both a literal and thematic backdrop for the story.\n\n\"Followed\" had its world premiere on September 7, 2018 at the 2018 Burbank International Film Festival in Burbank, California. It was subsequently selected into the 2018 Hollywood Independent Filmmaker Awards and 2018 Sydney Indie Film Festival where it won Best Horror/Thriller Feature Film at both festivals. Its wide release is expected in 2019.\n\nReviews from initial critics were overall positive, praising the film for its social commentary on Millennials and social media as well as its unique take on the found-footage genre. Audiences at initial screenings at festivals responded very positively, particularly regarding the relatable characters and suspenseful final act of the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "21089653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21089653", "title": "Gadara Aqueduct", "text": "Gadara Aqueduct\n\nThe Gadara Aqueduct, also called Qanat Fir'aun (Pharaoh's Watercourse), was a Roman aqueduct water supply for some of the Decapolis Cities. It serviced Adraha (known today as Dera'a in Syria), Abila (Decapolis) at Wadi Queilebh in Jordan, and the city of Gadara (modern-day Um Qais in Jordan). The aqueduct has the longest known tunnel of the Classical Era.\n\nThere was one section of more than 106 km, constructed with Qanat technology. In this special case, nearly all the shafts were diagonal with 45-60 degrees downwards with stairs to the real water channel inside the mountain. The line went along steep slopes and collected water from sources around the area. The first visitor who rode along the \"Kanatir\" was U. J. Seetzen in 1805.\n\nThere are gradients of 0.3 meters per mile for the underground tunnel section, resulting in a fall of 30 centimeters for each mile of tunnel. The aqueduct starts at a Roman dam in Dilli. From there, this part of the aqueduct line crosses several Wadis via 5-10m high bridges. During the last few decades, more the 3 kilometers of the remaining substructions were demolished on the Plains between Dilli and Deraa near the Jordanian Border.\n\nEast of Adraha was a 35 meter high bridge. The remains of the bridge now can be found on the ground of the new Al Saad Dam located at the eastern suburbs of Dera'a. After a junction point with a side channel from the Muzayrib lake, the underground aqueduct begins. Near Gadara (Umm Qais), 3 different water systems have been found. The first and second were built with Qanat technology and the 3rd was built as a channel along a street. It is believed that all 3 systems were used, but each at a different period.\n\nBeneath the classical city of Adraha was an underground city, and was also part of the aqueduct. The inhabitants of the city collected water by jars on ropes, from the underground channel. Today, however, there is no sign of the \"underground city\" which was described by Wetzstein in 1860 and G.Schumacher in 1896.\n\n\n\nInternational\n"}
{"id": "18949997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949997", "title": "Here Lies Love", "text": "Here Lies Love\n\nHere Lies Love is a concept album and rock musical made in collaboration between David Byrne and Fatboy Slim, about the life of the former First Lady of the Philippines Imelda Marcos along with the woman who raised her—Estrella Cumpas—and follows Marcos until she and her family were forced to leave the Philippines. The album features 22 guest vocalists and was released on 5 April 2010, under Nonesuch Records and Todomundo in several formats, including a deluxe double-Compact Disc set with a DVD of music videos from the album and a 120-page book.\n\nThe album was adapted as a rock musical that premiered in 2013 off-Broadway at The Public Theater and ran again at the Public in 2014–2015. It also played at the Royal National Theatre's Dorfman Theatre in 2014–2015 and the Seattle Repertory Theatre in 2017.\n\nThe title of the album is taken from a comment made by Imelda during a visit to her husband Ferdinand Marcos's embalmed body. Imelda expressed that she would like the phrase \"Here Lies Love\" to be inscribed on her tombstone. David Byrne released the following statement regarding this album:\n\nThe studio album features female singers including Florence Welch, Allison Moorer, Nellie McKay, Cyndi Lauper, Tori Amos, Martha Wainwright, Natalie Merchant, Sia Furler, Santigold, Charmaine Clamor, Nicole Atkins, Sharon Jones and Kate Pierson, alternately playing the roles of Imelda Marcos and Estrella Cumpas. \"It's a series of 22 very danceable songs…\" wrote Byrne, \"…and is sung by 20, count 'em, 20, amazing singers. A theater piece for your ears.\"\n\nByrne described Cyndi Lauper's performance as \"amazingly fine-tuned\" and \"very impressive.\" The only male vocalists are Steve Earle on \"A Perfect Hand\", and Byrne himself on \"American Troglodyte\" and \"Seven Years\", the latter a duet with Shara Worden from My Brightest Diamond.\n\nThe first promotional single was \"Please Don't\", featuring Santigold on vocals. The single became available on Byrne's website as a free high-quality MP3 download on 19 January 2010.\n\n\"Here Lies Love\" was performed live four times before the album was released. It was first presented as a song cycle (with vocals by Byrne, Dana Diaz-Tutaan and Ganda Suthivarakom) at the Adelaide Festival of Arts under the artistic direction of Brett Sheehy in Adelaide, Australia, on 10 March 2006 with additional dates on 13 and 14 March, and was also performed live at the Carnegie Hall in New York City on 3 February 2007, as part of the Carnegie Hall Perspectives Series.\n\n\n\nThe album was adapted into a stage musical, directed by Alex Timbers, that premiered off-Broadway at The Public Theater in New York City in 2013. It starred Ruthie Ann Miles in the title role, with Jose Llana as Ferdinand Marcos and Conrad Ricamora as Ninoy Aquino. The production played an extended run at the Public before closing in August 2013. It returned for an open-ended commercial run again at the Public in April 2014. The production closed at the Public on January 4, 2015. The production won five Lucille Lortel Awards in 2014.\n\nThe musical, directed once again by Timbers, opened at the Royal National Theatre in September 2014, and played a limited, sold out run through January 2015 at the Royal's newly renovated Dorfman Theatre. The London-based production was nominated for three Olivier Awards in 2015 (Best New Musical, Outstanding Achievement in Music, and Best Theatre Choreographer).\n\nA revamped production from the original Off-Broadway creative team, with the intention of recreating the immersive elements in a proscenium theater, was staged at the Seattle Repertory Theater from April 7 to May 28, 2017 (extended to June 18 after strong ticket sales). Notable returning actors included Conrad Ricamora and Melody Butiu reprising their roles from the original Off-Broadway cast as Ninoy Aquino and Estrella Cumpas, respectively, Mark Bautista from the London cast reprising his role as Ferdinand Marcos, and replacement actor Jaygee Macapugay reprising her role as Imelda Marcos from the Off-Broadway cast.\n\n"}
{"id": "25065963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25065963", "title": "Howieson's Poort Shelter", "text": "Howieson's Poort Shelter\n\nHowieson’s Poort Shelter is a small rock shelter in South Africa containing the archaeological site from which the Howiesons Poort period in the Middle Stone Age gets its name. This period lasted around 5,000 years, between roughly 65,800 BP and 59,500 BP.\nThis period is important as it, together with the Stillbay period 7,000 years earlier, provides the first evidence of human symbolism and technological skills that were later to appear in the Upper Paleolithic.\n\nThe poort was named after a “Mr Howison” but it was misspelt by Stapleton and Hewitt as Howieson and their error has been used ever since for the stone tool industry named after it.\nNote the site is always spelled with an apostrophe but the period can be spelt variably with and without it.\n\nThe rock shelter occurs in a hill on the north side of the Howieson's Poort containing the main road into Grahamstown from Port Elizabeth. The cave is halfway up a cliff and is deep and wide at the mouth, with a large Real Yellowwood tree growing in the deposit and “bent horizontal with the floor to allow its branches to spread into the open at the mouth of the shelter”. The original Howiesons Poort period remains were covered very slowly due to the cave’s position halfway up the cliff and to wind clearance. 20,000 years ago, however, a rock fall acted to protect the deposits near the front from wind erosion.\n\nIt was excavated in the late 1920s, and then again in 1965 by Hilary and Janette Deacon. There are very little \"in situ\" deposits left.\n\nAll the artifacts at the Howieson’s Poort site were found below a barren layer about a foot thick in a black layer also about a foot thick. The stone tools were mostly large segments or 'crescents', obliquely backed blades and unifacial and bifacial points. There are no rock paintings, nor bone or shell artifacts, though bone and shell artifacts are found in the deposits elsewhere of the Howiesons Poort period. Stone tools similar to those in the cave have been collected from hillsides above the rock shelter.\n\nOriginally, and until the mid-1970s, the remains at Howiesons Poort Shelter were thought to belong to the Magosian period and so intermediate in time and technology between the Middle Stone Age and Late Stone Age. However, optically stimulated luminescence dating pushed back dates for occupation by this period to 65,800 BP and 59,500 BP.\n\nApart from the Howiesons Poort period, Deacon proposed that the cave may have been occupied more recently for several very short periods (ca. 18-19000 BP, ca. 9-10000 BP and ca. 3-4000 BP) by people who made fires but left few or no artefacts. However, this explanation is presented only as one of a number of possible scenarios.\n\n"}
{"id": "36995072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36995072", "title": "Independence Day (franchise)", "text": "Independence Day (franchise)\n\nIndependence Day (also known as ID and ID4) is a franchise of American science fiction action horror films that started with \"Independence Day\" in 1996, which was eventually followed by the sequel, \"\" in 2016, with a planned third and fourth installment on the way. The franchise revolves around extraterrestrials invading Earth and seeking to eradicate mankind while the remaining human resistance uses everything at their disposal to defeat the invaders and take back the planet. Now considered to be a significant turning point in the history of the Hollywood blockbuster, the original film was released worldwide on July 3, 1996, but began showing on July 2 (the same day the film's story begins) on limited release as a result of a high level of anticipation among moviegoers. The film grossed over $817.4 million worldwide, becoming the highest-grossing film of 1996 and, briefly, the second-highest-grossing film worldwide of all time behind 1993's \"Jurassic Park\". Currently, it ranks 69th on the list of highest-grossing films, and was at the forefront of the large-scale disaster film and sci-fi resurgence of the mid-late 1990s. The film won the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Sound Mixing.\n\nThe film focuses on disparate groups of people who converge in the Nevada desert in the aftermath of a worldwide attack by an extraterrestrial race of unknown origin. With the other people of the world, they launch a last-ditch counterattack on July 4—Independence Day in the United States.\n\nOn August 4, 1996, BBC Radio 1 broadcast the one-hour play \"Independence Day UK\", written, produced, and directed by Dirk Maggs, a spin-off depicting the alien invasion from a British perspective. None of the original cast was present. Dean Devlin gave Maggs permission to produce an original version, on the condition that he did not reveal certain details of the movie's plot, and that the British were not depicted as saving the day. \"Independence Day UK\" was set up to be similar to the 1938 radio broadcast of \"The War of the Worlds—\"the first 20 minutes were presented as if live.\n\nThe film takes place twenty years after the events of the first film, during which the United Nations has collaborated to form Earth Space Defense (ESD), an international military defense and research organization. Through reverse engineering, the world has harnessed the power of alien technology and laid the groundwork to resist a second invasion.\n\nIn May 2015, Deadline reported that \"Independence Day 3\" and \"Independence Day 4\" were being planned. In June 2016, during an interview with \"Empire\" magazine, Emmerich stated that a third film could be made, depending on the success of the second one. He also said that audiences would not have to wait as long as they did for the second in the series. According to Emmerich, the third film will depict an intergalactic journey, possibly set a year or two later since he wants to maintain the same group of people, especially the young characters. \n\nIn March 2018, LRM Online reported that, after having met producer Dean Devlin at WonderCon and asking about the status on \"Independence Day 3\", Devlin told them \"I don’t know. I don’t know. Currently, I personally have no plans on doing another one.\" Following this, Ryan Scott at MovieWeb translated the poor reception of the second film and Devlin's comments as meaning \"Independence Day 3\" will likely not happen, also noting that 20th Century Fox merging with The Walt Disney Company (meaning Disney will be in control of Fox's franchises) would make it even less likely that a third film would be pursued and that we may not see another reboot of the brand for another 15-20 years.\n\nThe franchise has been the inspiration for a series of novels and comic books. The first three novels were originally published in the 1990s based on the 1996 release of the first film, and were republished in March 2016 as a single-volume edition (\"The Complete Independence Day Omnibus\").\n\nThe first book in the series is the novelization of the first film. Author Stephen Molstad wrote the novel to help promote the film shortly before its release. The novel goes into further detail on the characters, situations, and overall concepts not explored in the film. The novel presents the film's finale as originally scripted, with the character played by Randy Quaid stealing a missile and roping it to his cropduster biplane.\n\n\"Independence Day: The Official Collector's Magazine\" is a 68-page magazine by MVP Licensing, Inc. The magazine contains exclusive interviews, production information, and behind-the-scenes features, complete with color photos. The magazine is divided into 5 main sections, focusing on different aspects of the film production.\n\nA comic book series by Marvel Comics (issue #0, issue #0 variant, issue #1, issue #2, and issue #1 trade paperback) was also produced and based on the first two novelizations.\n\nFollowing the film's success, a prequel novel entitled \"Independence Day: Silent Zone\" was written by Molstad in February 1998. The novel is set in the late 1960s and early 1970s, and details the early career of Dr. Brackish Okun.\n\nMolstad wrote a third novel, \"Independence Day: War in the Desert\" in July 1999. Set in Saudi Arabia on July 3, it centers around Captain Cummins and Colonel Thompson (ranks corrected to Squadron Leader and Group Captain respectively in the Omnibus reissue), the two Royal Air Force officers seen receiving the Morse code message in the film.\n\nA comic book series by Titan Comics titled \"Independence Day: Dark Fathom\" was produced to promote and lead up to the events of the second film, and you could even order special covers featuring your local comic store being blown up by the alien spaceships.\n\n\"Independence Day: Crucible\" is the fourth book in the series, published in May 2016 bridging the events of \"Independence Day\" and its sequel.\n\n\"Independence Day: Resurgence\" is the novelization of the of the same name, and the fifth book in the series. It was published on June 21, 2016, three days before the release of the second film on June 24, 2016.\n\n\"The Art and Making of Independence Day: Resurgence\" is an art book based on the making of the titular film.\n\nVarious video games based upon the franchise have been produced all the way back from 1996 and up until 2016.\n\n\"Independence Day\" is a combat flight simulator video game based on the 1996 film of the same name. The game was developed by Radical Entertainment and published by Fox Interactive for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation, Sega Saturn, and mobile.\n\n\"ID4 Online\" (2000), known more formally as \"Independence Day Online\", was an arena-based action game developed by Mythic Entertainment, and published by Centropolis Entertainment. The game was billed as a direct sequel based on the movie \"Independence Day\". This game was no longer available on early 2006, along with all other games offered on the Mythic-Realms gaming center excluding \"Dragon's Gate\". In June 20, 2006, Mythic Entertainment was purchased by Electronic Arts.\n\nIn 1996, Trendmasters included 11 floppy disk games for PC with their action figures. The games were \"Mission Disk 1: Command the Alien Invasion\", \"Mission Disk 2: Mutate DNA\", \"Mission Disk 3: Construct Weapons\", \"Mission Disk 4: Classified\", \"Mission Disk 5: Jumpstart an Attacker\", \"Mission Disk 6: Infect the Mothership\", \"Mission Disk 7: Bomb the City Destroyers\", \"Mission Disk 8: Classified Attacker Information\", \"Mission Disk 9: Top Secret\", \"Mission Disk 10: Blast a Major City\", and \"Mission Disk 11: Launch an Attacker\".\n\nIn June, 1996, Sega Pinball, Inc. released a pinball game based upon the 1996 film of the same name.\n\nIn 1996, Tiger Electronics, Inc. released a handheld LCD game based upon the 1996 film of the same name.\n\nIn 1996 a \"behind-the-scenes\" multimedia CD-ROM titled \"Inside Independence Day\" was released for Microsoft Windows and Macintosh; it includes storyboards for the film, sketches, movie clips, and a preview of the \"Independence Day\" video game.\n\n\"Independence Day\" was a wireless mobile version of the brand released in 2005.\n\nPromoting the release of the second film, 20th Century Fox produced a website where you could use satellite imagery of your neighborhood and see what it would look like after an alien attack.\n\nPromoting the release of the second film, 20th Century Fox produced a website where you could enlist the fictional Earth Space Defense (ESD) and receiving new ranks by completing different challenges and games.\n\n\"Independence Day: Resurgence - Battle Heroes\" is a free mobile app strategy game based on \"Independence Day: Resurgence\". The game was developed by Zen Studios and Fox Digital Entertainment and is available to download for free on the iTunes App Store, Google Play and the Amazon Appstore.\n\n\"Independence Day: Extinction\" is a mobile game created by Linekong U.S. and based on \"Independence Day: Resurgence\". The game was released on June 30, 2016, and is available to download for free on the iTunes App Store and Google Play.\n\nTrendmasters released a toy line for the original film in 1996. Each action figure, vehicle or playset came with a 3½\" floppy disk that contained an interactive computer game. Cepia later released a toy line for the second film. Pop Funko also released various figures based on the franchise.\n\n"}
{"id": "2707946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2707946", "title": "Katabasis", "text": "Katabasis\n\nKatabasis or catabasis (, from \"down\" and \"go\") is a descent of some type, such as moving downhill, the sinking of the winds or sun, a military retreat, a trip to the underworld, or a trip from the interior of a country down to the coast. The term has multiple related meanings in poetry, rhetoric, and modern psychology.\n\nThe term catabasis can refer to a trip from the interior of a country down to the coast (for example, following a river), in contrast to the term \"anabasis\", which refers to an expedition from a coastline up into the interior of a country.\n\nThe main meaning given for catabasis by the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" (\"OED\") describes \"A going down; a military retreat, in allusion to that of the ten thousand Greeks under Xenophon, related by him in his \"Anabasis\":\nIn the opening of Plato's \"Republic\", Socrates recounts \"going down\" to the port city of Piraeus, located south of his native Athens. Several scholars, including Allan Bloom, have read this first word, (\"I went down\") as an allusion to Odysseus' journey into the underworld.\n\nIn poetry and rhetoric, the term \"katabasis\" refers to a \"gradual descending\" of emphasis on a theme within a sentence or paragraph, while \"anabasis\" refers to a gradual ascending in emphasis. John Freccero notes, \"In the ancient world, [the] descent in search of understanding was known as katabasis\", thus endowing mythic and poetic accounts of katabasis with a symbolic significance.\n\nIn modern psychology, the term \"katabasis\" is sometimes used to describe the depression some young men experience. Author Robert Bly proposes in his book \"\" several reasons for the \"catabasis phenomenon\", amongst them the lack of Western initiation rites and the lack of strong father figures and role models.\n\nThe trip to the underworld is a mytheme of comparative mythology found in a diverse number of religions from around the world. The hero or upper-world deity journeys to the underworld or to the land of the dead and returns, often with a quest-object or a loved one, or with heightened knowledge. The ability to enter the realm of the dead while still alive, and to return, is a proof of the classical hero's exceptional status as more than mortal. A deity who returns from the underworld demonstrates eschatological themes such as the cyclical nature of time and existence, or the defeat of death and the possibility of immortality.\n\n\"Katabasis\" is the epic convention of the hero's trip into the underworld. In Greek mythology, for example, Orpheus enters the underworld in order to bring Eurydice back to the world of the living.\n\nMost \"katabases\" take place in a supernatural underworld, such as Hades or Hell — as in Nekyia, the 11th book of the \"Odyssey\", which describes Odysseus's descent to the underworld. However, \"katabas\"is can also refer to a journey through other \"dystopi\"c areas, like those Odysseus encounters on his 10-year journey back from Troy to Ithaca. Pilar Serrano allows the term \"katabasis\" to encompass brief or chronic stays in the underworld, including those of Lazarus, and Castor and Pollux. In this case, however, the \"katabasis\" must be followed by an \"anabasis\" (a going or marching up) in order to be considered a true \"katabasis\" instead of a death.\n\nIn the 11th book of the \"Odyssey\", Odysseus follows the advice of Circe and consults Tiresias in the land of the dead. During Odysseus' visit, the souls of many appear to him. The first to appear to Odysseus is Elpenor, his crew member who died prior to leaving Circe's island. Elpenor asks Odysseus to give him a proper burial, and Odysseus agrees. The next to appear to Odysseus is his mother, Anticlea. As Odysseus has been away fighting the Trojan War for nearly 20 years, he is surprised and saddened by the sight of her soul.\n\nTiresias, the soul whom Odysseus came to see, next appears to him. Tiresias gives him several pieces of information concerning his \"nostos\" (homecoming) and his life after. Tiresias details Poseidon's anger at Odysseus' blinding of Polyphemos (and the coming troubles as a consequence), warns Odysseus not to eat the livestock of the god Helios, and prophesies Odysseus' return home to Ithaca and his eventual death at sea at an old age. After Tiresias instructs Odysseus to allow the spirits he wants to talk to drink the sacrificial blood he used to find Tiresias, he is again given the chance to see his mother, and she tells him of the suffering of his family as they await his return home. As his mother leaves, Odysseus is then visited by a string of souls of past queens. He first sees Tyro, the mother of Pelias and Neleus by Poseidon.\n\nHe next talks to Antiope, the mother of Amphion and Zethus (the founders of Thebes) by Zeus. Then, he is visited by Alcmene, the mother of Heracles by Zeus, and Heracle's wife Megara. He is also visited by Epicaste, the mother of Oedipus, and Chloris, the queen of Pylos. Odysseus is then visited by Leda, the mother of Castor and Polydeuces and Iphimedeia, mother of the Aloadae by Poseidon. Odysseus then sees a list of women whom he only briefly mentions: Phaedra, Procris, Ariadne, Maera, Clymene, and Eriphyle, all also lovers of gods or heroes. Next to visit Odysseus is Agamemnon, the king of Mycenae. Agamemnon tells Odysseus of his death by his wife, Clytemnestra and her lover Aegisthus. He warns Odysseus to return to Ithaca in secret and be wary of his own wife.\n\nOdysseus then encounters Achilles, who asks after the well being of his father, Peleus, and his son, Neoptolemus. Odysseus reassures Achilles of his son's bravery in fighting the Trojans. Odysseus then begins seeing figures of dead souls who do not talk directly to him: Ajax, Minos, Orion, Tityos, Tantalus, and Sisyphus. Odysseus ends his visit with Heracles, who asks about Odysseus' intention in Hades. Odysseus begins to get fearful as he waits for more heroes and leaves.\nThe \"katabasis\" of Virgil's \"Aeneid\" occurs in book 6 of the epic. Unlike Odysseus, Aeneas seeks to enter the underworld, rather than bring the spirits of the dead to him through sacrifice. He begins his journey with a visit to the Cumaean Sibyl (a priestess of Apollo) and asks for her assistance to journey to the underworld and visit his father. The priestess tells him to find a golden branch, and if the branch breaks off in his hands, he is fated to go to the underworld. She also tells Aeneas to bury his dead friend and prepare cattle for sacrifice. When Aeneas reaches the forest to find the golden branch, he is guided by birds to the tree, and the branch breaks into his hand. The branch, however, does not easily break off as the Sibyl said would happen to a person fated to go to the Underworld - the branch is described as \"cunctantem\" (\"hesitant\"). The implications of this have been debated by scholars - some arguing that it means that Aeneas is not as heroic as he needs to be, others arguing that Aeneas has not yet fulfilled his destiny, and several arguing that he is still a hero, with this section added purely for drama. Aeneas buries Misenus and he and the Sibyl prepare a sacrifice to enter the underworld. Aeneas first encounters several beings and monsters as he enters: Sorrows, Heartaches, Diseases, Senility, Terror, Hunger, Evil, Crime, Poverty, Death, Hard Labor, Sleep, Evil Pleasures of Mind, War, Family Vengeance, Mad Civil Strife, Scylla, Briareus, Hydra, Chimaera, Gorgons, Harpies, and Cerberus. Next, Aeneas encounters Charon, the ferryman who leads souls into the underworld, and the mass of people who are unburied. His first conversation is with Palinurus, a man of his crew who fell overboard and died on their journey. Palinurus begs Aeneas to bury him so he can enter the underworld. The Sibyl convinces Charon to carry them across the river Styx in exchange for the golden bough. Aeneas encounters Minos pronouncing judgment on souls and the souls that died for love: Phaedra, Procris, Eriphyle, Evadne, Pasiphae, Laodamia, Caeneus, and Dido. Next, Aeneas sees heroes of battle: Tydeus, Parthenopaeus, Adrastus, Glaucus, Medon, Thersilochus, Polyboetes, Idaeus, Agamemnon, and Deiphobus. The Sibyl then leads Aeneas to Elysium, the place for the blessed. On the way, they pass the place for tortured souls and the Sibyl describes some of the tortured's fates. Tityos has his liver eaten by a vulture daily. Pirithous and Ixion have a rock constantly hanging over them at all times. Many others face the punishment of moving rocks, being stretched, and being tied to wheels. The two then enter the Estates of the Blessed, where they see a utopian land where heroes and good people reside. There, Aeneas finds his father, who tells him of the rich history of Rome to come.\n\nIn Ovid's poetic collection of mythological stories, he includes accounts of \"katabasis\" as well. In book 4, he includes an account of Juno's descent to Hades to bring her perceived justice to Ino. Ovid describes Juno's path to the underworld, noting Cerberus' presence. Juno seeks the Furies (Tisiphone, Megara, and Alecto) to destroy the house of Cadmus, namely Ino and her husband Athamas. While in the underworld, Juno passes several souls who are being punished in Hades. Hades is also a person, and he needs to get rid of those souls because he needs them to fully recover. –Tantalus, Sisyphus, Ixion, and the Belides. When the Furies agree to Juno's request, she happily returns to the heavens where she is purified by Iris.\nThe next major \"katabasis\" in the \"Metamorphoses\" occurs in book 5 by Proserpina, the daughter of Ceres who is kidnapped by Dis. As Proserpina is picking flowers, Dis falls in love with her and decides to grab her and take her to the underworld in his chariot. Worried about her now-missing daughter, Ceres becomes distraught and searches for Proserpina.\n\nWhen Ceres discovers the kidnapping, she goes to Jove to attempt to get Proserpina back. He agrees that she should be returned as long as Proserpina has not touched any food in the underworld. However, she has eaten pomegranate seeds, and cannot be returned to Ceres. To ensure compromise between Ceres and Dis, Jove divides the year into halves and commands that Proserpina must spend equal parts of the year between her mother and her husband. From that point on, Proserpina makes annual trips to the underworld, spending half the year there.\n\nOvid also briefly mentions the \"katabasis\" of Hercules in book 7. Ovid is telling the etiological story of Medea's poison for Theseus. When Hercules travelled to the underworld to capture Cerberus as one of his twelve Labours, Cerberus spread white foam from his mouths which grew poisonous plants.\n\nThe \"katabasis\" of Orpheus in book 10 is the last major inclusion of the theme by Ovid in the \"Metamorphoses\". Orpheus is distraught by the death of his wife, Eurydice. He enters the underworld through the Spartan Gates and visits Dis and Proserpina to beg for the return of his bride. Overcome by the heartfelt song of Orpheus, Proserpina calls Eurydice to leave with her husband–on the condition that he does not look back until he reaches the exit. When he looks back, his wife disappears, and he is pained by grief for her death a second time.\n\n Mesopotamian mythology\n Ancient Egyptian mythology\nGreek mythology and Roman mythology\nChristianity\nNorse religion and Finnish mythology\nWelsh mythology\n\nOther\n\nAir cooled by a glacier flows down the glacier and generates wind movement known as a \"katabatic wind\". In Antarctica, katabatic winds perpetually flow off the Antarctic plateau and are channelled through mountain passes, descending down steep glaciers to the oceans. They blow at storm force year round.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4650431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4650431", "title": "Kurdification", "text": "Kurdification\n\nKurdification is a cultural change in which non-ethnic Kurds or/and non-ethnic Kurdish area becomes Kurdish. This can happen both naturally (as seen in Turkish Kurdistan) and deliberately (as seen in Iraq after the invasion of Iraq).\n\nThe notion of kurdification is different from country to country. In Turkish Kurdistan, many ethnic Armenians, Bulgarians, Circassians, Chechens, Georgians, Ingushs, and Ossetians have become kurdified, as a result of fleeing to the region and having subsequently interacted with ethnic Kurds. In Iraqi Kurdistan, currently the minorities like Turkmens, Assyrians, Yazidis and Shabaks are undergoing a process of Kurdification in the disputed territories of northern Iraq.\n\nWhen refugees from Caucasus reached the Ottoman Empire, Constantinople decided not to settle these in Kurdistan due to the extreme poverty and lack of material resources for the refugees. Yet after some time, the Ottomans started seeing the refugees as a chance to diminish the Kurdish claim to the region and allowed the refugees to settle in the region. In 1862, Circassian refugees from the Shapsug tribe arrived in the Kurdish areas of Ahlat and Adilcevaz and settled in the three Kurdish villages of Yoğurtyemez, Xanik (Çukurtarla), Develik and founded the village of Koxiş (Yolçatı).\n\nThe first big wave of Caucasian refugees to Kurdistan was in 1864 when 15,000 to 20,000 refugees settled in Sarıkamış, founding new villages and settling in abandoned Greek and Armenian villages. These refugees included Circassians, Chechens, Laks and Avars. The largest group of refugees were Circassias who fled the Circassia region (part of the Russian Empire) during the ethnic cleansing of Circassians. Two years later, Shapsug tribe with members of the Abzakh tribe founded the villages of Bolethan (Karapolat), Arnis (Güzgülü) and Ximsor (Eskibalta) near Bingöl. Concurrently with the Circassian migration, Ossetians settled in the villages of Xulik (Otluyazı) and Ağcaviran (Akçaören) in Ahlat, Yaramış, Karaağıl, Hamzaşeyx (Sarıpınar), Simo (Kurganlı) in the eastern Muş region, and Lekbudak (Budaklı) near Karaçoban. According to the Russian intelligence officer Aleksandr Kolyubakin, no less than 1,500 Ossetians lived in the Sanjak of Muş in the late 1880s.\n\nChechens and Ingushs mostly settled in Varto area, in the villages of Arincik (Kıyıbaşı), Çarbuhur (Bağiçi), Tepeköy, Artet (Serinova), Ulusırt and Arinç (Çöğürlü), Avars who settled in Kayalık village, and Circassians of the Kabardian tribe founded the village of Narlı Çerkezleri (Eskinarlı) in Pazarcık area. There is also a Georgian village in Diyarbakir Province.\n\nFrom early stage on, these Caucasians went through a process of kurdification and thereby had Kurdish as their mother tongue.\n\nWhen the Kurdish question rose in Turkey, it also had an effect on their Caucasian neighbours. Even today, there is an aversion from joining the Kurds in their conflict against the Turkish state, but many individuals of Caucasian origin joined the Kurdistan Workers' Party. As part of their campaign, the Kurdish party Peoples' Democratic Party won most Caucasian villages in Turkish Kurdistan.\n\nThrough the 20th century, an unknown number of Armenians living in the mountainous region of Tunceli (Dersim) had converted to Alevism. During the Armenian Genocide, many of the Armenians in the region were saved by their Kurdish neighbors. According to Mihran Prgiç Gültekin, the head of the Union of Dersim Armenians, around 75% of the population of Dersim is descended from \"converted Armenians.\" He reported in 2012 that over 200 families in Tunceli have declared their Armenian descent, but others are afraid to do so. In April 2013, Aram Ateşyan, the acting Armenian Patriarch of Constantinople, stated that 90% of Tunceli's population is of Armenian origin.\n\nOn 21 August 2006, Shabak Democratic Party leader Hunain Qaddo, proposed the creation of a separate province within the borders of the Nineveh Plain, in order to combat the Arabization and Kurdification of Iraqi minorities. The Iraqi government voted against the proposition. \n\nThere have been reports that some Arabs are being displaced in previously mixed Kurdish-Arab villages in Northern Iraq.\n\nThe Kurdish government defended the Kurdification with the implementation of article 140 of the Iraqi constitution which ensured the restoration of the situation as it was before Saddam Hussein's genocide and Arabization policies against the Kurdish population during the Al-Anfal Campaign and the Kurdish Feyli genocide.\n\nIntensified tensions between Kurds and Sunni Arabs led to violent clashes between both of them since Saddam's Arabization and genocide campaigns against the Kurdish population in Iraqi Kurdistan. On 21 August 2006, Shabak Democratic Party leader Hunain Qaddo proposed the creation of a separate province within the borders of the Nineveh Plains, in order to combat the \"Arabization\" and \"Kurdification\" of Iraqi minorities. The Iraqi government voted against the proposition.\n\nKurdification or re-Kurdification (post-Saddam) has been an open policy of the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) in Iraq since 2003, according to Gareth Stansfield, a professor of Middle East politics at the University of Exeter.<ref name=\"rebeccacollard/makhmour\"></ref> Some Assyrians sources claimed that the Kurds have clear plans for the annexation of the Nineveh Plains to the Kurdish control and it is claimed by Assyrian activists that they have \"always sent their followers to international forums to interrupt international protection for Assyrians\". The Hareetz newspaper had reported on 24 December 2014 that the Kurds object to the establishment of a protected Christian enclave, because they want to annex the Nineveh Valley, most of whose residents are Christians. The Assyrian activist from the Assyrian Patriotic Movement claimed that the entire Assyrian Triangle (between Greater Zab and the River Tigris) has been \"occupied by Kurdish intruders\". Some Assyrians in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq also complained that construction plans are \"aimed at affecting a demographic change that divides Assyrian blocs\". Also some Yazidis, Shabaks and Turkmens have reported that they are facing a policy of cultural and security control against them, especially in areas which belonged to the Kurds before Saddam's Al-Anfal Campaign.\n\nIn 2016, David Romano, Professor of Middle East Politics, said that without the YPG and Peshmerga, the Assyrians of northern Syria and Iraq would likely all be dead, lying in some jihadist-dug mass grave. Another view is that the Kurdish militia (Peshmerga) quickly abandoned their positions at the beginning of the ISIL occupation of the city of Mosul, and that the Peshmerga, who had disarmed Assyrians and left them defenseless, retreated without informing the indigenous Christian population, leaving them uninformed and unarmed.\n\nThe United States Holocaust Memorial Museum published news which argued that the Yazidis have frequently been pressured to assimilate to both Arab and Kurdish ethnicities. Other sources have stated that Yazidis already speak Northern Kurdish which is one of the two major dialects of Kurdish language. \n\nDuring the Iraqi civil war, Iraqi army troops fled their posts around the Nineveh Plains while ISIL attacked. Later, KRG forces, with the support of coalition airstrikes, captured these areas from ISIL. Since then, there have been disputes between pro-government Assyrians and Kurds, as the former have either asked the Kurds to leave or promised them autonomy.\n\nIn 2011, some Yazidi activists voiced their \"concern over forced assimilation into Kurdish identity\". Some have accused the Kurdish and Iraqi parties of diverting US $12 million of reconstruction funds allocated for Yazidi areas in Jebel Sinjar to a Kurdish village and marginalizing them politically. According to Sweden-based economist David Ghanim, the goal of some tactics of the KRG had been to push Shabak and Yazidi communities to identify as Kurds, which has been strongly denied by KRG authorities. He also claimed that the Kurdish authorities are working to impose Kurdish identity on the Yazidis and the Shabaks. The Assyrian International News Agency claimed that the Kurds have annexed Assyrian, Yazidi and Shabak villages and which now under Kurdish Control in North Iraq, and that in Iraqi Kurdistan, Assyrian politicians of some towns have been replaced with Kurdish ones.\n\nAssyrians have claimed that Kurdish nationalists have enforced revisionist curricula in schools with a Kurdish-nationalist bias. This is controversial since it has been noted they \"alter historical and geographical facts\", including Assyrian place names which are changed to Kurdish names, and students are taught that King Nebuchadnezzar from the Old Testament married a Kurdish woman.\n\nTurkish news claimed that Ossama Telcu, member of the National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, had claimed that the PYD forces set ablaze civil registry and land registry buildings in Manbij shortly after taking city from ISIL. According to Turkish AA source, PYD forces set ablaze civil registry and land registry buildings in Manbij. In addition, it was claimed that the PYD had also been sending away Sunni Arabs and Turkmen residents who want to return to their homes in Manbij on the pretext that ISIL has planted mines inside the house. However, the Reuters, Kurdish and US sources reported that civilians had returned to their homes. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "21496194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21496194", "title": "List of minor 2000 AD stories", "text": "List of minor 2000 AD stories\n\nThis is a list of minor \"2000 AD\" stories.\n\n\"Absalom\" is a horror story spin-off from \"Caballistics, Inc.\" by Gordon Rennie and Tiernen Trevallion. It spanned three installments \"Noblesse Obligie\" in \"2000 AD\" #1732-1739 (May–June 2011), \"Sick leave\" in \"2000 AD\" Prog 2012 (December 2011) and \"Ghosts of London\" in \"2000 AD\" #1765-1771 (January–February 2012).\n\nThe first trade paperback, \"Ghosts of London\", was published in June 2012 ().\n\n\"Ampney Crucis Investigates\" is an occult detective story by Ian Edginton and Simon Davis starring the fictional investigator Ampney Crucis and his man servant Eddie Cromwell. It started in \"2000 AD\" #1611 (2008) and up to the end of 2011 has spanned four parts.\n\nThe first trade paperback, \"Vile Bodies\", was published in January 2012 ().\n\n\"Babe Race 2000\" is a story written by Mark Millar, with art by Anthony Williams, which ran in an eponymous story in \"2000 AD\" #883-888 (1994) and a one-off, \"Bounty Hunter Mom\", in the 1995 \"2000 AD Yearbook\".\n\n\"Bato Loco\" is a story written by Gordon Rennie, with art by Simon Coleby that had two outings in the \"Judge Dredd Megazine\". It featured Carlito \"Bato Loco\" Agarra from the Barrio Blocks who was introduced in the story \"Bato Loco\" in \"Judge Dredd Megazine\" #202 (February 2003).\n\n\"Carver Hale\" was a story about a London mobster who gets possessed by a demon. It was written by Mike Carey with art by Mike Perkins (with some fill-in inking by Dylan Teague). It came about because then editor Andy Diggle was commissioning more horror stories and Carey said he \"was aiming to get some of the flavour of \"Hellblazer\", but in a more in-your-face, action-oriented story.\"\n\nIt was published in \"2000 AD\" #1236-1240 and 1247-1249 in 2001 (split because of deadline problems), and collected into a hardback volume in 2005 ().\n\n\"Citi-Def\" by Tony Lee, with art by Jack Lawrence. The series is set in the Judge Dredd universe, focusing on the City Defence units of armed militia. The first instalment as described as a good start with \"cute\" and \"cartoony\" art, and the second part was \"an awesome romp\" and \"a fabulous idea, and here it's executed with great aplomb,\" although the reviewer felt it was pitched at a younger audience that usual. Another reviewer felt that while the artist \"is pretty good at this sort of art, but I hate it\" and reiterated concerns about the lack of sophistication but did acknowledge that \"there are bags of fun ideas here.\"\n\nThe first story, \"Field Trip\", ran in \"Judge Dredd Megazine\" starting in issue #279.\n\n\"Cradlegrave\" is a body horror comic story which ran in \"2000 AD\" #1633-1644, written by John Smith, with art by Edmund Bagwell.\n\nIt is set in the Ravenglade Estate (nicknamed \"Cradlegrave\"), somewhere in Lancashire. It follows the story of teenage Shane Holt, who has recently been released from Thorn Hill young offenders institution.\n\nThe story was collected into a trade paperback, with a foreword by Ramsey Campbell (). In his foreword Campbell describes the story as one \"as simultaneously hideous and desolate as anything in David Cronenberg\".\n\n\"Cursed Earth Koburn\" is a character who has appeared in an eponymous series in \"Judge Dredd Megazine\", written by Gordon Rennie, with art by Carlos Ezquerra. It is about a judge who has taken the Long Walk into the Cursed Earth.\n\n\"Dinosty\" was the first series Pat Mills and Clint Langley had collaborated on (Langley's first job at \"2000 AD\" had been a \"Future Shock\" with Mills) and they would go on to work together on Mills' long-running stories \"ABC Warriors\" and \"Sláine\".\n\nThe story itself was originally supposed to appear in the spin-off comic Earthside 8, but this title was never published. However, this was not the end of the problems as the move to \"2000 AD\" happened when Mills felt his relationship with the editors was breaking down and he came to believe that \"\"Dinosty\" suffered from covert and non-verbalised editorial opposition, or maybe just disinterest.\" The story would eventually run in 1994, in issues #873 - 882.\n\"Glimmer Rats\" is a military science fiction story which appeared in \"2000 AD\", written by Gordon Rennie, with art by Mark Harrison. It was collected into a sixty-page hardcover (). Rennie has described the inspiration for the story as \"Sven Hassel novels and a certain oblique pretentiousness.\"\n\n\"The Grudge-Father\" was a \"lurid\" 1994 story written by Mark Millar, with Jim McCarthy providing the art, which ran in \"2000 AD\" #878-883.\n\n\"Insurrection\" is a series by Dan Abnett published in \"Judge Dredd Megazine\" starting in January 2009. Abnett explains that \"the actual brief was to bring to the Dredd Universe something of the epic war-in-space scale of the stuff I write for Warhammer 40K. Tharg (Matt to his friends) wanted a stonking big space war story that would suit the universe of the Mega-Cities\".\n\nThe series was drawn by artist Colin MacNeil, who has also worked on a number of Warhammer 40K stories, and one reviewer notes the similarities suggesting \"MacNeil is reprising exactly the same art style that he used on the \"Bloodquest\" strip in the Warhammer Monthly comic.\"\n\nThe reception has been positive with reviews of the first episode suggesting \"With cracking art and a storming first episode I have to say ‘Insurrection’ has the potential to be the best Dredd off world spin-off ever\" and \"This was as good a first episode as I can remember reading and I can see Insurrection having the legs to deliver on that initial promise.\" Reviews only got better after that, including: \"Quite simply, this is the best non-Dredd story ever to run in the Megazine\" and \"glorious\"\n\nThe first two instalment are being collected into a trade paperback ().\n\n\"The Journal of Luke Kirby\" was a long-running series, first appearing 1988 and published until 1995. It was written by Alan McKenzie and had art by John Ridgway, Steve Parkhouse and Graham Higgins. Luke Kirby predates other boy wizards, such as Harry Potter and the Vertigo character Timothy Hunter.\n\n\"Maniac 5\" was, along with \"Red Razors\", one of Mark Millar's major solo series at \"2000 AD\", the others being co-written with Grant Morrison. It formed part of the \"Summer Offensive\" in 1993, along with \"Judge Dredd\": \"\", \"Slaughterbowl\", \"Really & Truly\" and \"Big Dave\". The initial, eponymous story was drawn by \"Red Razors\" artist Steve Yeowell, who would also draw the final story \"Maniac 6\". Other artists worked on the one-offs: David Hine on \"War Journal\", in \"2000 AD Sci-Fi Special 1993\", and Richard Elson on \"Maniac 6 Prologue\", in \"2000 AD Winter Special 1993\".\n\n\"Necrophim\" is a story by Tony Lee, with art by Lee Carter. The prologue ran in \"2000 AD\" #1628-1632, with the main story starting in #1655.\n\"Pulp Sci-fi\" was another Future Shock-style series, designed by David Bishop to replace \"Vector 13.\" It would be the launch pad for other series like Rose O'Rion but failed to prove popular with writers and ended two years after it started.\n\n\"Purgatory\" was a \"Judge Dredd\" spin-off that focused on Judge Grice and was written by Mark Millar, with art by Carlos Ezquerra. The series ran in \"2000 AD\" #834-841 in 1993 and led straight into up the Judge Dredd story \"\", with Ezquerra remaining on art and Grant Morrison taking over writing duties.\n\"Rain Dogs\" is a science fiction story set in a flooded New York, which appeared in \"2000 AD\" progs 1213-1222. Written by Gordon Rennie, with art by Colin Wilson, it was later collected into a fifty-two page hardcover.\n\n\"Rose O'Rion\" span out of \"Pulp Sci-fi\" and was written by Kek-W, with art by Andy Clarke. The character returned in the \"2000 AD\" fanzine \"Zarjaz\" #10 as an illustrated text story, with art from Dylan Teague.\n\n\"Sancho Panzer\" is a story which ran in seven consecutive stories in \"2000 AD\" #1112-1123 in 1998. It was written by Dan Abnett, with Henry Flint providing the art, and featured the eponymous character who pilots a giant tank called Mojo with the assistance of his technician Tool. He is pursued by reporter Lynx Fahren/Farren, who is trying to get to the truth behind the legend, and General Herman Spurn, who was defeated by Panzer and is looking for revenge. Everyone has to pull together when the planet, Vainglory Five, is invaded by giant worms.\n\nAbnett had tried to repeat the success of \"Sinister Dexter\" by seeing what worked and basing another story on those elements:\n\n\"Silo\" was Mark Millar's first series at \"2000 AD\" which was greenlit after he had had just two \"Future Shocks\" published,; it was drawn by Dave D'Antiquis. The story ran in issues #706-711 in 1990 and was reprinted in \"Extreme Edition\" #14 and involved two American soldiers in a nuclear missile silo apparently haunted by the ghost of Edward Bulwer-Lytton who was intent on ending the world.\n\n\"Slaughterbowl\" is a story by John Smith and Paul Peart that ran in \"2000 AD\" #842-849 as part of their \"Summer Offensive\". It featured convicts piloting cybernetic dinosaurs as a sport of the future.\n\n\"Snow/Tiger\" was a story featuring \"a mixture of paranoid politics and extreme violence\" written by Andy Diggle: originally pitched to Vertigo, it was turned down as being \"too mainstream\". He reworked it, \"I just took out the politics and left in the extreme violence\", but the politics that remained still proved controversial, although Diggle concludes that \"the fact the story pissed people off on both sides of the political spectrum suggest I probably pitched it about right.\"\n\nOnly one story was published, \"Pax Americana\", in \"2000 AD\" ##1336-1342 and it was collected in a free trade paperback given away in the \"Judge Dredd Megazine\" #276.\n\n\"Stalag #666\" is a fifteen-part story, with a double-length (ten page) first instalment, by Tony Lee, with art by Jon Davis-Hunt. Lee describes it as \"a futuristic space story that happens to be set in a prison camp. and it's (and I'll be honest here) a mash of clichés and homages as let's be truthful here, you couldn't do a prison camp story and not be like that.\"\n\nThe story ran in \"2000 AD\" #1600-1614, between August and November 2008.\n\n\"Tales from Beyond Science\" was a series of one-off \"Future Shock\"-style stories all drawn by Rian Hughes with scripts by Mark Millar, Alan McKenzie and John Smith. The story was devised by Millar and then editor McKenzie who brought Smith and Hughes in as the last members of the team.\nThe series was published in 1992 in \"2000 AD\" #774-779 and as part of a couple of special issues. Hughes has had these stories collected, along with new material, by Image Comics ().\n\n\"Thirteen\" was a one-off story written by Mike Carey, with art by Andy Clarke. The story had been on Carey's mind for seven years before appearing in the comic. The writer has said \"I wanted to do a story that was an insane, over-the-top space opera combined with the seventies paranoid thriller. I also had this idea for a narrative structure that would start small and then just keep on opening outwards like Chinese boxes until it was working on a cosmic level\"\n\nThe story appeared in 2002 in \"2000 AD\" #1289-1299 and has been collected into a trade paperback ()\n\n\"Tyranny Rex\" is a story by John Smith and Steve Dillon. The main character is an artist and reptile, whose story crossed over with \"Indigo Prime\". The stories appeared between 1988 and 1994, with a number of artists including Will Simpson, Dougie Braithwaite, Steve Sampson, Duncan Fegredo, Mark Buckingham, Paul Marshall and Richard Elson, and the character made a comeback in 2004, with Steve Yeowell on art duties but no further stories appeared.\n\"Witch World\" is a series that appeared twice in \"2000 AD\", written by Gordon Rennie, with art provided by Siku, Paul Johnson, Will Simpson and John M. Burns.\n\nRennie describes the origins of the story (one of his first in \"2000 AD\" after stories being published in \"Judge Dredd Megazine\"): \"It came about when I and a number of other writers were asked to put together pitches for a new fantasy strip, with guidelines suggested by the editor\". However, he does not rate the story highly:\n\n\"Zombo\" is a story written by Al Ewing, based on ideas by series artist Henry Flint, who also provided the art. The first series was set on a \"death planet\", one of a number of hostile and malevolent living planets, where the eponymous character has to lead the passengers of a crashed space ship to safety.\n\n\"Zombo\" first appeared in \"2000 AD\" #1632.\n\n"}
{"id": "10238153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10238153", "title": "List of ornaments", "text": "List of ornaments\n\nOrnaments are a decorative embellishment to music, either to a melody or to an accompaniment part such as a bassline or chord. Sometimes different symbols represent the same ornament, or vice versa. Different ornament names can refer to an ornament from a specific area or time period. Understanding these ornaments is important for historically informed performance and understanding the subtleties of different types of music. This list is intended to give basic information on ornaments, with description and illustrations where possible. Ornaments are used in Western classical music, Western popular music e.g., rock music and pop music) and traditional music (e.g., folk music and blues) and in other world music and classical music from the eastern and Southern Hemisphere continents.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26200536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26200536", "title": "Mac (It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia)", "text": "Mac (It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia)\n\nRonald \"Mac\" McDonald is a fictional character on the FX series \"It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia\". Mac is Charlie Kelly's childhood friend and Dennis Reynolds's high school friend and later roommate.\n\nMac is a co-owner of Paddy's, the self-proclaimed \"Sheriff of Paddy's,\" and is generally the pub's most active manager. Mac is played by Rob McElhenney.\n\nMac frequently uses his signature line, \"What's up, bitches?\" throughout the series. In many episodes, Mac will enter the bar announcing \"I've got news\" or a variation of the phrase, to set the episode's plot in motion. The others rarely share his enthusiasm, but he usually convinces one of them to follow him, though often reluctantly. Throughout the series, Mac uses a \"puppy-dog look\" when he is ashamed or when he proposes something reprehensibly shameful.\n\nFor the first six seasons Mac's full name was kept anonymous as a running joke, though in the season four episode \"Mac & Charlie Die,\" Mac's father's name is listed as \"Luther Mac\" on his parole papers and his mother is referred to as Mrs. Mac. In the episode \"Who Got Dee Pregnant?,\" one of the McPoyle brothers refers to Mac as \"Macwell.\" In the episode \"The Gang Cracks the Liberty Bell\" Mac, or at least Mac's 18th Century counterpart, is called \"McDonald,\" suggesting that this is his surname. Mac's full real name, Ronald McDonald, is revealed in the season seven episode \"The High School Reunion\". Mac hates the name due to its connection with the spokesman of the popular fast food chain McDonald's as well as his old nickname, \"Ronnie the Rat,\" which he obtained from ratting on fellow drug dealers in high school. Mac \"ratted\" on drug dealers so he could become the main drug dealer of the school. He prefers to be simply called \"Mac\".\n\nMac comes from a broken home; his father has been incarcerated for dealing meth and his mother is extremely apathetic and unemotional. Mac and his mother also own a dog named Poppins, who despite being extremely old and prone to eating poisonous objects appears to be practically indestructible. He sees himself as a karate expert and total \"badass\". Mac constantly seeks the acceptance of others, especially his parents, but his over-earnest efforts do not endear him to others. Earlier, under the impression that his father would possibly murder him after being paroled, Mac later receives a warm letter from his father, specifically requesting that Mac stay away from him. This letter is written as Mac's father fears that Mac's destructive tendencies could harm him. Dennis notes that the only reason Mac hung out with the popular kids in high school was because he sold them all weed and even then was considered an \"asshole.\" Though Dennis reigns supreme as selfish and arrogant, Mac has made his fair share of selfish, inconsiderate decisions and observations.\n\nMac is considered by every member of The Gang to be a \"jerk\" and is nearly always the first to start betraying the others, though he does usually stick with Dennis, who is his best friend and has known him longer than anybody in The Gang other than Charlie. Like Dennis, Mac sees himself as superior to the rest of The Gang and often attempts to prove his supremacy. For instance, in an attempt to impress Charlie and Dennis, he makes a series of \"Project Badass\" videotapes that consist of various idiotic stunts set to music. He had a sexual relationship with a pre-op transgender woman named Carmen, for whom he claimed he was just \"putting in time\" as he waited for Carmen's surgery.\n\nMac sincerely believes that he is an adept martial artist with \"cat-like reflexes\" and usually wears sleeveless shirts to draw attention to his physique and exhibit his tribal tattoos. Despite his apparent fitness, Mac generally focuses his workout time on developing his, as Dennis called them, \"glamor muscles\" and is largely the weakest member in The Gang, behind everyone but Dennis. Despite his enthusiasm towards karate, he is shown to have no real skills in the sport.\n\nA Catholic, Mac is the only member of The Gang to profess a religious faith. In \"The Gang Exploits a Miracle,\" Mac fears that the Lord will show his wrath if they continue to exploit a water stain in the bar that appears to depict the Virgin Mary. Throughout the series, Mac refuses to wear a condom during sex because, as he explains to Charlie, he went to Catholic school. Though Mac seems to care more about issues such as abortion, community activism, and parenting than the rest of The Gang, his views on such subjects are invariably twisted, ignorant, or prejudiced and his actions regarding them are always hypocritical and selfish. For instance, after pretending to be adamantly pro-life in order to attract a female activist, Mac later demands that she get an abortion when he thinks she has become pregnant by him. In another instance, Mac discovers that Carmen has married and had the operation to remove her penis. He then belittles Carmen and her husband by quoting the Bible to them and calling them gay; however, he only reacts so because he expected Carmen to call him after the operation so they could date again. Mac constantly drinks alcohol, like the rest of The Gang, and abuses other substances, such as poppers and glue. In recent seasons, Mac has sometimes expressed Anti-Semitism, from his rant about Mark Zuckerberg and \"his Jews\" using Facebook and other social media to take over the world in \"The Anti-Social Network\" and, in \"The Gang Group Dates,\" telling a disgusted Frank and Charlie that he wants to make sure any women he might date are not Jewish.\n\nWhile Mac has sexual exploits with various women, including two models in immediate succession (\"America's Next Top Paddy's Billboard Model Contest\"), there have been throughout the series insinuations that Mac may be homosexual. This is manifested by his obsession with men's physiques and his reactionary religious views on homosexuality. In the final scene of the season 4 episode \"Mac's Banging the Waitress,\" Charlie says to Dennis, \"Do you still get the feeling he wants to bang us? That's what this is all about,\" after Mac tries to demonstrate how \"badass\" he is by falling from the roof onto a pile of mattresses. In the season 9 episode \"Mac Day,\" Charlie says, \"I know we've never said this as a group, but Mac's gay,\" to which the rest of The Gang readily agrees. In Season 10, when Dennis is listing all of the delusions The Gang has about themselves, he tells Mac that \"you think that you're tough, and that you're straight.\" After a pause, Mac retorts \"I AM tough!\" Further, in episode 6 of season 10, \"The Gang Misses the Boat,\" Mac convinces The Gang that he is sleeping with an attractive woman; however, they later discover that he merely paid her with angel dust to pretend they were together. She tells them that he \"couldn't even get it up\" for her.\n\nIn episode 9 of season 11, Mac, while on a Christian cruise, discovers that two other male passengers are gay and sets out to \"convert\" them. The two, however, \"convert\" Mac within minutes. This supposed realization of his repressed homosexuality results in the end of his belief in God. After The Gang is informed by Mac of his new identity, they tell him they've known since the first day they met him and proceed to move on with their self-involved lives. In the season 11 finale, Mac and the rest of The Gang are trapped inside the ship's brig and Mac tries one last time to pray to God to save all of them from imminent death (as the ship has presumably capsized and the room is filling with water). They are released in the nick of time. Mac later explains to The Gang and an insurance claim agent that God does exist and he, Mac, is indeed straight, because his prayer was answered and no loving God \"would make\" him gay. In episode 6 of season 12, the gang uses Mac's altered workout bike as evidence of his homosexuality during a legal arbitration. Mac is forced to admit his sexuality to win the dispute, but the gang expects him to return to the closet after the process is over. However, when given an opportunity to retract his admission, Mac finally decides to embrace his identity.\n\nAt the start of season 7, Mac has gained at least 60 pounds of fat, which he saw as a step to developing muscle (\"cultivating mass\" in his words) to go from \"a tiny twink to [a] muscle-bound freak.\" In the episode \"How Mac Got Fat,\" he goes into greater detail about his intentions, explaining that earlier, the Gang had decided to replace themselves with avatars to run Paddy's Pub so they could slack off. Mac's avatar was a bodybuilder. When Dee points out that the avatar doesn't look like him because he has more muscle, Mac starts gaining weight in an attempt to become the same size as the bodybuilder. Eventually the Gang drops the avatar plan and everything goes back to normal, but Mac is stuck with his dangerous weight gain. The rest of The Gang agrees he looks unhealthy—Dennis is personally outraged by the sight of his gut—but Mac is indifferent to their opinions despite developing diabetes as a result of his new eating habits.\n\nThe weight gain was real. Rob McElhenney has stated in interviews that he wanted to make Mac fat as his own way of fighting the trend of actors on TV shows getting more attractive as a show gains success (he specifically talked about \"The Big Bang Theory\" and how the nerdy lead characters were better-dressed and had trendier hairstyles as the show became a huge hit for CBS), and that it also made sense that Mac would be aging badly thanks to the reckless, selfish, and stupid lifestyle of which he and the rest of the characters are so proud..\n\nTo gain the weight for Season 7 in the healthiest way possible, McElhenney worked with a nutritionist recommended by professional baseball player Chase Utley (who had played himself in the Season 6 episode \"The Gang Gets Stranded in the Woods\"). He ate an average of 5,000 calories a day during the weight gain, and lost the weight by returning to his normal eating and workout routines.\n"}
{"id": "26514096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26514096", "title": "Mary Elliott Flanery", "text": "Mary Elliott Flanery\n\nMary Elliott Flanery (April 27, 1867 – July 19, 1933) was an American progressive era social reformer, suffragist, politician, and journalist who is best remembered as the first women elected to the Kentucky General Assembly and first women elected to a state legislature south of the Mason–Dixon line. Flanery was an advocate for equal rights for women, and actively worked to pass legislation that would give women the right to vote.\n\nMary Elliott, daughter of Benjamin Franklin Elliott and Nancy (Kegley) Elliott, was born April 27, 1867 in a part of Carter County, Kentucky that would later become Elliott County, Kentucky. After completing her schooling at University of Charleston in West Virginia and the University of Kentucky, she was a public school teacher.\n\nMary married William \"Harvey\" Flanery on June 28, 1893, and moved with him to Ann Arbor, Michigan. The Flanery family moved to Pikeville, Kentucky in 1896 for Harvey to work for Northern Coal and Coke as an attorney.\n\nHarvey and Mary had five children together; Sue, Merle, Dawn, Dew, and John.\n\nWhile residing in Pikeville, Mary Flanery began a career as a writer. From 1904 until 1926, she worked as a journalist for the Ashland Daily Independent. She wrote a column called \"Impressions of Kentucky's Legislature,\" and she advocated for legislation as a means for social reform.\n\nFlanery \"discovered\" female African-American poet Effie Waller Smith, who live and worked in Pike County, Kentucky.\n\nFlanery was a member of the Kentucky Equal Right Association, and actively worked for women to have the right to vote. She worked for to improve the lives of women through reform of suffrage, marriage, and divorce laws.\n\nAfter women gained suffrage in Kentucky, in 1921, Flanery ran as the Democratic party candidate for a seat in the Kentucky House of Representative from the 89th District representing Boyd County, Kentucky and won by a 250-vote margin. When Flanery took her seat in the lower house of the General Assembly in January 1922, she was the first female state legislator elected in Kentucky and the first female legislator elected south of the Mason–Dixon line.\n\nAs an legislator, Flanery continued her advocacy for women's rights. She urged her colleagues to change legislation about marriage and divorce, and to implement the federal Shepard-Towner Maternity Act, a progressive era program that provided medical care to pregnant women and their children.\n\nFlanery's time in the General Assembly ended with an unsuccessful campaign for Secretary of State in 1923. She was defeated by another female trailblazer, Emma Guy Cromwell, who was the first female to hold a statewide office. Flanery stayed active in politics and was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1924.\n\nFlanery was active member of in the General Federation of Women's Clubs of Kentucky. She was a member of the Daughters of the Revolution and in 1926, she founded the John Milton Elliott chapter of the United Daughters of the Confederacy.\n\nFlanery died at her residence, Elliot Hall, in Cattlettsburg on July 19, 1933, and was buried at Ashland Cemetery in Ashland, Kentucky.\n\nAfter Flanery became the first woman elected to the Kentucky State legislature, she was honored by the Kentucky Historical Society as Kentucky's Most Prominent Female. Mary Elliott Flanery is remembered today as a trailblazer for her work as a social reformer and her advocacy for women's rights through her work as a journalist and politician. In 1963, the Kentucky General Assembly honored Flanery by placing a bronze plaque at her desk in the Kentucky House of Representatives. In 2005, Kentucky Commission on Women recognized her by adding her portrait to the \"Kentucky Women Remembered\" exhibit at the Kentucky State Capitol building.\n"}
{"id": "40688771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40688771", "title": "Mohani", "text": "Mohani\n\nMohani (Devanagari: मोहनि) is one of the most important festivals among the Newars which involves a packed itinerary of religious services, pilgrimages, family gatherings and outdoor celebrations lasting several days. Special dinners known as Nakhtya (नख्त्या), to which all the relatives are invited, continue for weeks later. Mohani is the equivalent of Nepal's biggest festival Dasain, and there are similarities and differences between the two.\n\nThe festival has been variously described as a celebration of Hindu Goddess Durga slaying the demon Mahisasur, Goddess Chamunda destroying the demon Chunda and Indian emperor Ashoka renouncing arms in disgust after a particularly bloody battle and becoming a Buddhist. Mohani is celebrated according to the lunar calendar, so the dates are changeable. The main celebrations last for four days from the 8th to the 11th days of the bright half of Kaulā (कौला), the twelfth month in the lunar Nepal Era calendar.\n\nMohani starts with Nalāswane (नःलास्वने), the planting of barley seeds, on the first day of the fortnight. The seeds are planted in sand in earthen basins and small bowls. This is done in the shrine room at one's home and at the Agam Chhen (आगं छेँ) the house where the family's tutelary deity is installed.\n\nA week later, a family feast known as Kuchhi Bhoy (कूछि भ्वय्) is held on the day of Ashtami, the eighth day of the fortnight as per the lunar calendar. Family members sit in a row for the feast with the eldest taking the place of honor at the top and the youngest at the bottom.\n\nThe next day, known as Syākwa Tyākwa (स्याक्व त्याक्व), is Navami, the ninth day of the fortnight in the lunar calendar. Sacred rituals are performed at the shrine room of the tutelary deity. People also make sacred offerings to their tools of the trade, weighing scales, looms, machinery and vehicles. The Taleju Temple located at Kathmandu Durbar Square, Patan Durbar Square and Bhaktapur Durbar Square are opened to the public on this day only, and devotees visit the temple to offer worship to the goddess, who is also the tutelary deity of Nepal's Malla kings of old. The day ends with another grand family feast.\n\nThe next day is Chālan (चालं), which occurs on Dashami, the tenth day of the fortnight. Family members go to the shrine room of their tutelary deity for a service. They receive bunches of barley shoots planted on the first day as sacred gifts. Dabs of red paste are put on their foreheads as a blessing.\n\nOther ceremonies consist of chopping up an ash gourd painted with the face of the devil at the shrine house of the tutelary deity. In some localities, participants parade through the streets holding ceremonial swords aloft prior to the event. The procession is known as Pāyā (पाया). The festivities end with another family feast in the evening.\n\nThe Pachali Bhairav Jātrā is a procession held in Kathmandu to honor the deity Pachali Bhairav whose shrine is located at the southern part of the historic section of the city. The parade takes place on the fifth day of the fortnight.\n\nThe Sikāli Jātrā is a sacred masked dance festival which is held as part of the celebrations of Mohani. It takes place in Khokana, a village to the south of Kathmandu, on the seventh day of the fortnight. The festival consists of dance performances and religious rituals, and continues for five days.\n\nIn Bhaktapur, the masked dance of Nava Durgā is held. Nava Durga means group of nine goddesses who are believed to protect the city from external harm. Nine shrines dedicated to the deities mark the city's perimeter.\n\nAt a courtyard inside the old royal palace at Patan, masked dancers representing Asta Matrikā (eight mother goddesses) reenact the victory of Goddess Durga over the demon Mahisasur. The performances were begun in the 17th century. The Asta Matrika dance is also performed to remove obstacles in the city caused by bad spirits. Worshipping the eight goddesses is believed to bring good to the country and the people.\n\nIn Bunga, 9 km south of Kathmandu, a festive parade of Goddess Manakamana is held on the ninth day of the fortnight. A dance featuring a masked man riding a hobby horse is also shown, among other performances.\n\nAsanbhalu Dyah Jātrā, also known as Annapurna Jatra, is held on the 11th day of the fortnight. An image of the goddess Asanbhalu Ajimā, the patron deity of Asan, Kathmandu, is placed on a palanquin and carried around town accompanied by musical bands. The Asan Pāyā sword procession is also held on this day, with the youngest member of the community leading the parade. The day is the last day of Mohani for the locals of Asan, and is known as Asan Chālan.\n\nThe sacred Kumha Pyakhan dance used to be performed at Durbar Square and Asan as symbolic protection of the image of the goddess Taleju when it is brought out of her temple during Mohani.\n\nThe Malshree dhun(मालश्री धुन) is played and heard during this time. The joyous melody is one of the six seasonal tunes in traditional Newar music.\n\nFlying kites is the most popular sport that people engage in on the sidelines of Mohani. This is the season for flying kites because of the pleasant weather and windy conditions. Rooftops and open fields are crowded with revelers, and dogfights in the sky in which kite fliers try to cut the opponent's line with one's line are keenly watched. The kites are highly maneuverable, and are flown using a spindle. The line is coated with mājā, a sticky paste mixed with powdered glass to help cut the opponent's line.\n\nThe most common social belief regarding the tradition of flying kites is that kites go up to the heavens carrying a message to the gods to stop sending rain for the year. Another belief says that it brings prosperity to the family. Flying kites is also believed to be a way of communicating with one's ancestors.\n\nNewar expatriates in Tibet used to celebrate Mohani like in Kathmandu, and they held the Paya procession on the 10th day of the fortnight. In Lhasa, the participants holding swords paraded around the Barkhor accompanied by musical bands playing nāykhin (नायखिं) drums. They went to the Nepalese Legation for the ceremony where they chopped up a radish. After the ceremony, they returned to their own places in a similar procession.\n\nThere was another pageant in which the merchants carried a huge demon mask. The parade was led by a few men dressed in women's clothes. The Paya ceremony was also celebrated in other towns in Tibet like Shigatse and Gyantse where there were Lhasa Newar merchants and artisans.\n\nIn recent years, with Nepalese migrating to various parts of the world to work or settle, they have been celebrating their festivals wherever they reside with community feasts and cultural programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2150335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2150335", "title": "NOOMA", "text": "NOOMA\n\nNOOMA is a series of short films produced by Flannel promoting spiritual reflections on individual life experiences. The name NOOMA comes from a phonetic spelling of the Greek word (pneuma), meaning \"wind\", \"spirit\", or \"breath\". The video series consists of 24 videos created from 2002-2009 featuring Christian teacher Rob Bell.\n\nEach film is about 10 to 14 minutes of Christian teaching related to real-life situations. Each short story covers a specific topic, usually by relating various experiences from a Christian perspective. Each NOOMA video features the teaching of former Mars Hill Bible Church teaching pastor Rob Bell. The NOOMA videos are subtitled in English, Spanish, French, German, Portuguese, Mandarin and Korean.\n\nThe executive director of Flannel, the producer of NOOMA, announced in 2009 plans to feature additional Christian teachers in future NOOMA films.\n\nMost NOOMAs featuring are shot on location in Western Michigan or the Chicago area. However, NOOMAs \"Today | 017\" and \"Name | 018\" were both filmed in the Jacksonville, Florida area. The Amway Grand Plaza Hotel is prominent in \"Trees\". A restaurant called The Rainbow Grill in Grandville, Michigan was used for \"Sunday\". The Gerald R. Ford International Airport is featured in \"Luggage\". The Van Andel Arena is featured in \"Bullhorn\". A beach along Lake Michigan is featured in \"Kickball\". \"Breathe\" is shot in the Lake station on the Red Line in downtown Chicago. \"Open\" was filmed at the new Metro Health Hospital in Wyoming, Michigan three months before the hospital opened its doors. \"Shells\" was filmed primarily at the Pew Campus of Grand Valley State University with several shots of Rob Bell sitting in the Steelcase Library.\n\nOriginally, the non-profit company Fringe began making the NOOMA films in September 2001. The first film in the series was titled \"Rain\", and made in collaboration with co-writer, director Adam Stielstra and producer Brett Van Til. Fringe later changed its name to Flannel and is located in Grandville, Michigan. Since November 2002, Flannel has distributed the films through their website, NOOMA.com. A soundtrack featuring music from the first ten films (plus \"Flowers\" from 013) became available in December 2005 through NOOMA.com and digital music outlets.\n\nIn March 2005, Zondervan started distributing the series, making it available to retail markets. The entire look of the NOOMA series changed when Zondervan began distributing the films. Previously, the first 10 NOOMAs had been available as DVDs in clear and light blue plastic packaging. New packaging which accompanied the re-release of 001–010 and all subsequent episodes features a paper case and a 32-page discussion book. The books feature Scripture, stills from the film, questions related to the film's topic, and a single fun fact for each episode, usually about some production aspect of the film.\n\nAn app is also available to watch the NOOMA videos for both iOS and Android, developed in 2011 by the Christian media publishing company Zondervan.\n\nNOOMA premiered in November 2002. The last film was published July 2009. Twenty-four different films have been created, each with a different theme:\n\n\nMusic from the first ten NOOMA videos were released the soundtrack \"NOOMA Soundtrack | Volume 001\" in December 2005. It features Brie Stoner and David Vandervelde, both independent artists that are not employed by NOOMA.\n\nThe later NOOMA videos feature music that is not on the soundtrack:\n"}
{"id": "22034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22034", "title": "Naturalistic planned language", "text": "Naturalistic planned language\n\nA naturalistic planned language is a constructed language specifically devised to reproduce the commonalities in morphology and vocabulary from a group of closely related languages, usually with the idea that such a language will be relatively easier to use passively -- in many cases, without prior study -- by speakers of one or more languages in the group.\n\nThe term is most commonly used to apply to pan-Romance planned languages, though there have also been a few pan-Germanic, pan-Slavic and even pan-Celtic naturalistic planned languages.\n\nSince the creation of such a language often includes shared idiosyncrasies from the source languages, active use seems to be generally more difficult to learn than for schematic planned languages, though because of grammatical simplification considerably easier than for ethnic languages of the same type.\n\nThe best known languages of this type are Occidental and Interlingua. These two also are designed as international auxiliary languages.\n"}
{"id": "1337267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1337267", "title": "Needle time", "text": "Needle time\n\nNeedle time was created in the United Kingdom by the Musicians' Union and Phonographic Performance Limited to restrict the amount of recorded music that could be transmitted by the BBC during the course of any 24-hour period. The number of hours per week allowed gradually increased over the years from below 30 hours in the 1950s. Until 1967 the BBC was allowed to play only five hours per day of commercial gramophone records on the air. It continued to affect BBC Radio 1, BBC Radio 2 and the Independent Local Radio stations until 1988.\n\nThe result was that the BBC had to use \"cover\" versions of popular songs by groups such as Shane Fenton and the Fentones recorded at the BBC studios, or orchestral versions by one of the in-house orchestras, to fill in the hours.\n\nThe term \"needle time\" comes from the use (at the time) of gramophone records as the main source of recorded music, which were played on gramophone record players using a gramophone needle.\n\nUnlike American records, British records at the time carried a warning message around the edge of the record label in the centre of the record itself to the effect that: \"Unauthorised public performance or broadcasting of this record is strictly prohibited.\"\n\nAlthough the record industry in Britain wanted the public to buy its records, it had to give them some airtime so that the public could find out about their existence. To that end the record industry used the commercial nighttime signals from Radio Luxembourg whose powerful AM signal could be heard in the UK. The \"208\" shows on Luxembourg were mainly fifteen minutes to thirty minutes in length and presented under names such as the \"Decca Records Show\" or the \"Capitol Records Show\". These prerecorded programmes resembled what later became known as Infomercials, because they normally only featured a little over half of the record, with heavy plugging for title, artist and label.\n\nBecause all the hours of transmission were booked up by the major record companies (EMI, Decca, Pye, Philips etc.) groups and artists had to sign to them to get any exposure. This was one of the driving forces for Ronan O'Rahilly and others to start the first pirate radio station to get exposure for artists he represented.\n\nUnlike the BBC or Radio Luxembourg, the offshore pirate radio stations of the 1960s operated not only outside the three-mile limit of territorial waters, but also in a grey area of the law. Because the studios and transmitters were located on board the ships or offshore structures, the personnel on board were only under the authority of the captain of that ship or structure. In the case of ship stations such as Wonderful Radio London which introduced top 40 radio to Britain, the ship was actually registered in a foreign country and therefore subject to the laws of that country, which of course did not recognize \"needle time\". Payola operated on several of these stations.\n\n"}
{"id": "4212295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4212295", "title": "Parable of the Sower (novel)", "text": "Parable of the Sower (novel)\n\nParable of the Sower is a science fiction novel by American writer Octavia E. Butler, the first in a two-book series. It was published in 1993.\n\nSet in the 2020s where society has largely collapsed due to climate change, growing wealth inequality, and corporate greed, \"Parable of the Sower\" centers on a young woman named Lauren Oya Olamina who possesses what Butler dubbed hyperempathy or \"sharing\" – the ability to feel pain and other sensations she witnesses. As a teenager growing up in the remnants of a gated community near Los Angeles, she begins to develop a new belief system, which she comes to call Earthseed. When the community's security is compromised, her home is destroyed and her family is murdered, and she travels north with other survivors. Society outside the community walls has reverted to chaos due to resource scarcity and poverty, and mixed race relationships are stigmatized amid attacks against religious and ethnic minorities. Lauren believes that humankind's destiny is to travel beyond Earth and live on other planets, forcing humankind into its adulthood, and that Earthseed is preparation for this destiny. She gathers followers along her journey north and founds the first Earthseed community, Acorn, in Northern California.\n\nButler had planned to write a third \"Parable\" novel, tentatively titled \"Parable of the Trickster\", which would have focused on the community's struggle to survive on a new planet. She began this novel after finishing \"Parable of the Talents\", and mentioned her work on it in a number of interviews, but at some point encountered writer's block. She eventually shifted her creative attention, resulting in \"Fledgling\", her final novel. The various false starts for the novel can now be found among Butler's papers at the Huntington Library, as described in an article at the \"Los Angeles Review of Books\".\n\nPublished by Four Walls Eight Windows in 1993, by Women's Press Ltd. in 1995, by Warner in 1995 and 2000, and by Seven Stories Press in 2017.\n\n\"Parable of the Sower\" was adapted as \"Parable of the Sower: The Concert Version\", a work-in-progress opera written by American folk/blues musician Toshi Reagon in collaboration with her mother, singer and composer Bernice Johnson Reagon. The adaptation's libretto and musical score combine African-American spirituals, soul, rock and roll, and folk music into rounds to be performed by singers sitting in a circle. It was performed as part of The Public Theater's Under the Radar Festival in New York City in 2015 and in 2018.\n\n\"Parable of the Sower\" was referred to in hip-hop artist Talib Kweli's song \"Ms. Hill\" off his mixtape \"\". In the song, which is about Lauryn Hill, Kweli references how Lauryn Hill used to come into Nkiru (a bookstore Kweli owns in Brooklyn, New York) and liked to buy Octavia Butler books, namely \"Parable of the Sower\". \"We used to chill at Nkiru / her moms was a customer / she used to love to buy the books by Octavia Butler / Parable of the Sower, the main character's name was Lauren\".\n\nIn Lauren Beukes' 2013 novel \"The Shining Girls\", the body of one of the victims, Jin-Sook Au, a social worker, is found with a copy of \"Parable of the Sower\".\n\nPart of the central verse of Earthseed, \"All that you touch you change, all that you change changes you\", is included in track 2 and 6 of Sugar Candy Mountain's album \"666\".\n\nThe work of hip hop/R&B duo THEESatisfaction was influenced by Octavia Butler. The third track from their 2012 album \"awE NaturalE\", \"Earthseed\", contains themes from the \"Parable\" series: \"Change there are few words / That you can say / We all watch things morphing everyday.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23601", "title": "Pi", "text": "Pi\n\nThe number () is a mathematical constant. Originally defined as the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter, it now has various equivalent definitions and appears in many formulas in all areas of mathematics and physics. It is approximately equal to 3.14159. It has been represented by the Greek letter \"\" since the mid-18th century, though it is also sometimes spelled out as \"pi\". It is also called Archimedes' constant.\n\nBeing an irrational number, cannot be expressed as a common fraction (equivalently, its decimal representation never ends and never settles into a permanently repeating pattern). Still, fractions such as 22/7 and other rational numbers are commonly used to approximate . The digits appear to be randomly distributed. In particular, the digit sequence of is conjectured to satisfy a specific kind of statistical randomness, but to date, no proof of this has been discovered. Also, is a transcendental number; that is, it is not the root of any polynomial having rational coefficients. This transcendence of implies that it is impossible to solve the ancient challenge of squaring the circle with a compass and straightedge.\n\nAncient civilizations required fairly accurate computed values to approximate for practical reasons, including the Egyptians and Babylonians. Around 250 BC the Greek mathematician Archimedes created an algorithm for calculating it. In the 5th century AD Chinese mathematics approximated to seven digits, while Indian mathematics made a five-digit approximation, both using geometrical techniques. The historically first exact formula for , based on infinite series, was not available until a millennium later, when in the 14th century the Madhava–Leibniz series was discovered in Indian mathematics. In the 20th and 21st centuries, mathematicians and computer scientists discovered new approaches that, when combined with increasing computational power, extended the decimal representation of to many trillions of digits after the decimal point. Practically all scientific applications require no more than a few hundred digits of , and many substantially fewer, so the primary motivation for these computations is the quest to find more efficient algorithms for calculating lengthy numeric series, as well as the desire to break records. The extensive calculations involved have also been used to test supercomputers and high-precision multiplication algorithms.\n\nBecause its most elementary definition relates to the circle, is found in many formulae in trigonometry and geometry, especially those concerning circles, ellipses, and spheres. In more modern mathematical analysis, the number is instead defined using the spectral properties of the real number system, as an eigenvalue or a period, without any reference to geometry. It appears therefore in areas of mathematics and the sciences having little to do with the geometry of circles, such as number theory and statistics, as well as in almost all areas of physics. The ubiquity of makes it one of the most widely known mathematical constants both inside and outside the scientific community. Several books devoted to have been published, and record-setting calculations of the digits of often result in news headlines. Attempts to memorize the value of with increasing precision have led to records of over 70,000 digits.\n\nThe symbol used by mathematicians to represent the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter is the lowercase Greek letter, sometimes spelled out as \"pi,\" and derived from the first letter of the Greek word \"perimetros,\" meaning circumference. In English, is pronounced as \"pie\" (, ). In mathematical use, the lowercase letter (or π in sans-serif font) is distinguished from its capitalized and enlarged counterpart , which denotes a product of a sequence, analogous to how denotes summation.\n\nThe choice of the symbol is discussed in the section \"Adoption of the symbol \".\n\n is commonly defined as the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter :\nThe ratio is constant, regardless of the circle's size. For example, if a circle has twice the diameter of another circle it will also have twice the circumference, preserving the ratio . This definition of implicitly makes use of flat (Euclidean) geometry; although the notion of a circle can be extended to any curved (non-Euclidean) geometry, these new circles will no longer satisfy the formula .\n\nHere, the circumference of a circle is the arc length around the perimeter of the circle, a quantity which can be formally defined independently of geometry using limits, a concept in calculus. For example, one may directly compute the arc length of the top half of the unit circle, given in Cartesian coordinates by the equation , as the integral:\nAn integral such as this was adopted as the definition of by Karl Weierstrass, who defined it directly as an integral in 1841.\n\nDefinitions of such as these that rely on a notion of circumference, and hence implicitly on concepts of the integral calculus, are no longer common in the literature. explains that this is because in many modern treatments of calculus, differential calculus typically precedes integral calculus in the university curriculum, so it is desirable to have a definition of that does not rely on the latter. One such definition, due to Richard Baltzer, and popularized by Edmund Landau, is the following: is twice the smallest positive number at which the cosine function equals 0. The cosine can be defined independently of geometry as a power series, or as the solution of a differential equation.\n\nIn a similar spirit, can be defined instead using properties of the complex exponential, , of a complex variable . Like the cosine, the complex exponential can be defined in one of several ways. The set of complex numbers at which is equal to one is then an (imaginary) arithmetic progression of the form:\nand there is a unique positive real number with this property.\nA more abstract variation on the same idea, making use of sophisticated mathematical concepts of topology and algebra, is the following theorem: there is a unique (up to automorphism) continuous isomorphism from the group R/Z of real numbers under addition modulo integers (the circle group) onto the multiplicative group of complex numbers of absolute value one. The number is then defined as half the magnitude of the derivative of this homomorphism.\n\nA circle encloses the largest area that can be attained within a given perimeter. Thus the number is also characterized as the best constant in the isoperimetric inequality (times one-fourth). There are many other, closely related, ways in which appears as an eigenvalue of some geometrical or physical process; see below.\n\n is an irrational number, meaning that it cannot be written as the ratio of two integers (fractions such as are commonly used to approximate , but no common fraction (ratio of whole numbers) can be its exact value). Because is irrational, it has an infinite number of digits in its decimal representation, and it does not settle into an infinitely repeating pattern of digits. There are several proofs that is irrational; they generally require calculus and rely on the \"reductio ad absurdum\" technique. The degree to which can be approximated by rational numbers (called the irrationality measure) is not precisely known; estimates have established that the irrationality measure is larger than the measure of or but smaller than the measure of Liouville numbers.\n\nThe digits of have no apparent pattern and have passed tests for statistical randomness, including tests for normality; a number of infinite length is called normal when all possible sequences of digits (of any given length) appear equally often. The conjecture that is normal has not been proven or disproven.\n\nSince the advent of computers, a large number of digits of have been available on which to perform statistical analysis. Yasumasa Kanada has performed detailed statistical analyses on the decimal digits of and found them consistent with normality; for example, the frequencies of the ten digits 0 to 9 were subjected to statistical significance tests, and no evidence of a pattern was found. Any random sequence of digits contains arbitrarily long subsequences that appear non-random, by the infinite monkey theorem. Thus, because the sequence of 's digits passes statistical tests for randomness, it contains some sequences of digits that may appear non-random, such as a sequence of six consecutive 9s that begins at the 762nd decimal place of the decimal representation of . This is also called the \"Feynman point\" in mathematical folklore, after Richard Feynman, although no connection to Feynman is known.\n\nIn addition to being irrational, more strongly is a transcendental number, which means that it is not the solution of any non-constant polynomial equation with rational coefficients, such as .\n\nThe transcendence of has two important consequences: First, cannot be expressed using any finite combination of rational numbers and square roots or \"n\"-th roots such as or . Second, since no transcendental number can be constructed with compass and straightedge, it is not possible to \"square the circle\". In other words, it is impossible to construct, using compass and straightedge alone, a square whose area is exactly equal to the area of a given circle. Squaring a circle was one of the important geometry problems of the classical antiquity. Amateur mathematicians in modern times have sometimes attempted to square the circle and sometimes claim success despite the fact that it is mathematically impossible.\n\nLike all irrational numbers, cannot be represented as a common fraction (also known as a simple or vulgar fraction), by the very definition of \"irrational number\" (that is, \"not a rational number\"). But every irrational number, including , can be represented by an infinite series of nested fractions, called a continued fraction:\n\nTruncating the continued fraction at any point yields a rational approximation for ; the first four of these are 3, 22/7, 333/106, and 355/113. These numbers are among the most well-known and widely used historical approximations of the constant. Each approximation generated in this way is a best rational approximation; that is, each is closer to than any other fraction with the same or a smaller denominator. Because is known to be transcendental, it is by definition not algebraic and so cannot be a quadratic irrational. Therefore, cannot have a periodic continued fraction. Although the simple continued fraction for (shown above) also does not exhibit any other obvious pattern, mathematicians have discovered several generalized continued fractions that do, such as:\n\nSome approximations of \"pi\" include:\n\nDigits in other number systems\n\nAny complex number, say , can be expressed using a pair of real numbers. In the polar coordinate system, one number (radius or \"r\") is used to represent 's distance from the origin of the complex plane and the other (angle or ) to represent a counter-clockwise rotation from the positive real line as follows:\nwhere is the imaginary unit satisfying = −1. The frequent appearance of in complex analysis can be related to the behavior of the exponential function of a complex variable, described by Euler's formula:\n\nwhere the constant is the base of the natural logarithm. This formula establishes a correspondence between imaginary powers of and points on the unit circle centered at the origin of the complex plane. Setting = in Euler's formula results in Euler's identity, celebrated by mathematicians because it contains the five most important mathematical constants:\n\nThere are different complex numbers satisfying , and these are called the \"-th roots of unity\". They are given by this formula:\n\nThe best-known approximations to dating before the Common Era were accurate to two decimal places; this was improved upon in Chinese mathematics in particular by the mid-first millennium, to an accuracy of seven decimal places.\nAfter this, no further progress was made until the late medieval period.\n\nSome Egyptologists have claimed that the ancient Egyptians used an approximation of as from as early as the Old Kingdom.\nThis claim has met with skepticism.\n\nThe earliest written approximations of are found in Egypt and Babylon, both within one percent of the true value. In Babylon, a clay tablet dated 1900–1600 BC has a geometrical statement that, by implication, treats as  = 3.125. In Egypt, the Rhind Papyrus, dated around 1650 BC but copied from a document dated to 1850 BC, has a formula for the area of a circle that treats as () ≈ 3.1605.\n\nAstronomical calculations in the \"Shatapatha Brahmana\" (ca. 4th century BC) use a fractional approximation of  ≈ 3.139 (an accuracy of 9×10). Other Indian sources by about 150 BC treat as  ≈ 3.1622.\n\nThe first recorded algorithm for rigorously calculating the value of was a geometrical approach using polygons, devised around 250 BC by the Greek mathematician Archimedes. This polygonal algorithm dominated for over 1,000 years, and as a result is sometimes referred to as \"Archimedes' constant\". Archimedes computed upper and lower bounds of by drawing a regular hexagon inside and outside a circle, and successively doubling the number of sides until he reached a 96-sided regular polygon. By calculating the perimeters of these polygons, he proved that (that is ). Archimedes' upper bound of may have led to a widespread popular belief that is equal to . Around 150 AD, Greek-Roman scientist Ptolemy, in his \"Almagest\", gave a value for of 3.1416, which he may have obtained from Archimedes or from Apollonius of Perga. Mathematicians using polygonal algorithms reached 39 digits of in 1630, a record only broken in 1699 when infinite series were used to reach 71 digits.\nIn ancient China, values for included 3.1547 (around 1 AD), (100 AD, approximately 3.1623), and (3rd century, approximately 3.1556). Around 265 AD, the Wei Kingdom mathematician Liu Hui created a polygon-based iterative algorithm and used it with a 3,072-sided polygon to obtain a value of of 3.1416. Liu later invented a faster method of calculating and obtained a value of 3.14 with a 96-sided polygon, by taking advantage of the fact that the differences in area of successive polygons form a geometric series with a factor of 4. The Chinese mathematician Zu Chongzhi, around 480 AD, calculated that (a fraction that goes by the name \"Milü\" in Chinese), using Liu Hui's algorithm applied to a 12,288-sided polygon. With a correct value for its seven first decimal digits, this value of 3.141592920 remained the most accurate approximation of available for the next 800 years.\n\nThe Indian astronomer Aryabhata used a value of 3.1416 in his \"Āryabhaṭīya\" (499 AD). Fibonacci in c. 1220 computed 3.1418 using a polygonal method, independent of Archimedes. Italian author Dante apparently employed the value .\n\nThe Persian astronomer Jamshīd al-Kāshī produced 9 sexagesimal digits, roughly the equivalent of 16 decimal digits, in 1424 using a polygon with 3×2 sides, which stood as the world record for about 180 years. French mathematician François Viète in 1579 achieved 9 digits with a polygon of 3×2 sides. Flemish mathematician Adriaan van Roomen arrived at 15 decimal places in 1593. In 1596, Dutch mathematician Ludolph van Ceulen reached 20 digits, a record he later increased to 35 digits (as a result, was called the \"Ludolphian number\" in Germany until the early 20th century). Dutch scientist Willebrord Snellius reached 34 digits in 1621, and Austrian astronomer Christoph Grienberger arrived at 38 digits in 1630 using 10 sides, which remains the most accurate approximation manually achieved using polygonal algorithms.\n\nThe calculation of was revolutionized by the development of infinite series techniques in the 16th and 17th centuries. An infinite series is the sum of the terms of an infinite sequence. Infinite series allowed mathematicians to compute with much greater precision than Archimedes and others who used geometrical techniques. Although infinite series were exploited for most notably by European mathematicians such as James Gregory and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, the approach was first discovered in India sometime between 1400 and 1500 AD. The first written description of an infinite series that could be used to compute was laid out in Sanskrit verse by Indian astronomer Nilakantha Somayaji in his \"Tantrasamgraha\", around 1500 AD. The series are presented without proof, but proofs are presented in a later Indian work, \"Yuktibhāṣā\", from around 1530 AD. Nilakantha attributes the series to an earlier Indian mathematician, Madhava of Sangamagrama, who lived c. 1350 – c. 1425. Several infinite series are described, including series for sine, tangent, and cosine, which are now referred to as the Madhava series or Gregory–Leibniz series. Madhava used infinite series to estimate to 11 digits around 1400, but that value was improved on around 1430 by the Persian mathematician Jamshīd al-Kāshī, using a polygonal algorithm.\nThe first infinite sequence discovered in Europe was an infinite product (rather than an infinite sum, which are more typically used in calculations) found by French mathematician François Viète in 1593:\n\nThe second infinite sequence found in Europe, by John Wallis in 1655, was also an infinite product:\nThe discovery of calculus, by English scientist Isaac Newton and German mathematician Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz in the 1660s, led to the development of many infinite series for approximating . Newton himself used an arcsin series to compute a 15 digit approximation of in 1665 or 1666, later writing \"I am ashamed to tell you to how many figures I carried these computations, having no other business at the time.\"\n\nIn Europe, Madhava's formula was rediscovered by Scottish mathematician James Gregory in 1671, and by Leibniz in 1674:\n\nThis formula, the Gregory–Leibniz series, equals when evaluated with  = 1. In 1699, English mathematician Abraham Sharp used the Gregory–Leibniz series for formula_13 to compute to 71 digits, breaking the previous record of 39 digits, which was set with a polygonal algorithm. The Gregory–Leibniz for formula_14 series is simple, but converges very slowly (that is, approaches the answer gradually), so it is not used in modern calculations.\n\nIn 1706 John Machin used the Gregory–Leibniz series to produce an algorithm that converged much faster:\nMachin reached 100 digits of with this formula. Other mathematicians created variants, now known as Machin-like formulae, that were used to set several successive records for calculating digits of . Machin-like formulae remained the best-known method for calculating well into the age of computers, and were used to set records for 250 years, culminating in a 620-digit approximation in 1946 by Daniel Ferguson – the best approximation achieved without the aid of a calculating device.\n\nA record was set by the calculating prodigy Zacharias Dase, who in 1844 employed a Machin-like formula to calculate 200 decimals of in his head at the behest of German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss. British mathematician William Shanks famously took 15 years to calculate to 707 digits, but made a mistake in the 528th digit, rendering all subsequent digits incorrect.\n\nSome infinite series for converge faster than others. Given the choice of two infinite series for , mathematicians will generally use the one that converges more rapidly because faster convergence reduces the amount of computation needed to calculate to any given accuracy. A simple infinite series for is the Gregory–Leibniz series:\nAs individual terms of this infinite series are added to the sum, the total gradually gets closer to , and – with a sufficient number of terms – can get as close to as desired. It converges quite slowly, though – after 500,000 terms, it produces only five correct decimal digits of .\n\nAn infinite series for (published by Nilakantha in the 15th century) that converges more rapidly than the Gregory–Leibniz series is:\n\nThe following table compares the convergence rates of these two series:\n\nAfter five terms, the sum of the Gregory–Leibniz series is within 0.2 of the correct value of , whereas the sum of Nilakantha's series is within 0.002 of the correct value of . Nilakantha's series converges faster and is more useful for computing digits of . Series that converge even faster include Machin's series and Chudnovsky's series, the latter producing 14 correct decimal digits per term.\n\nNot all mathematical advances relating to were aimed at increasing the accuracy of approximations. When Euler solved the Basel problem in 1735, finding the exact value of the sum of the reciprocal squares, he established a connection between and the prime numbers that later contributed to the development and study of the Riemann zeta function:\n\nSwiss scientist Johann Heinrich Lambert in 1761 proved that is irrational, meaning it is not equal to the quotient of any two whole numbers. Lambert's proof exploited a continued-fraction representation of the tangent function. French mathematician Adrien-Marie Legendre proved in 1794 that is also irrational. In 1882, German mathematician Ferdinand von Lindemann proved that is transcendental, confirming a conjecture made by both Legendre and Euler. Hardy and Wright states that \"the proofs were afterwards modified and simplified by Hilbert, Hurwitz, and other writers\".\n\nIn the earliest usages, the Greek letter was an abbreviation of the Greek word for periphery (περιφέρεια), and was combined in ratios with δ (for diameter) or ρ (for radius) to form circle constants. (Before then, mathematicians sometimes used letters such as \"c\" or \"p\" instead.) The first recorded use is Oughtred's \"formula_19\", to express the ratio of periphery and diameter in the 1647 and later editions of \"Clavis Mathematicae\". Barrow likewise used \"formula_20\" to represent the constant 3.14…, while Gregory instead used \"formula_21\" to represent 6.28….\n\nThe earliest known use of the Greek letter alone to represent the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter was by Welsh mathematician William Jones in his 1706 work \"Synopsis Palmariorum Matheseos; or, a New Introduction to the Mathematics\". The Greek letter first appears there in the phrase \"1/2 Periphery ()\" in the discussion of a circle with radius one. However, he writes that his equations for are from the \"ready pen of the truly ingenious Mr. John Machin\", leading to speculation that Machin may have employed the Greek letter before Jones. Jones' notation was not immediately adopted by other mathematicians, with the fraction notation still being used as late as 1767.\n\nEuler started using the single-letter form beginning with his 1727 \"Essay Explaining The Properties Of Air\", though he used =6.28…, the ratio of radius to periphery, in this and some later writing. Euler first used =3.14… in his 1736 work \"Mechanica\", and continued in his widely-read 1748 work \"Introductio in analysin infinitorum\" (he wrote: \"for the sake of brevity we will write this number as ; thus is equal to half the circumference of a circle of radius 1\"). Because Euler corresponded heavily with other mathematicians in Europe, the use of the Greek letter spread rapidly, and the practice was universally adopted thereafter in the Western world, though the definition still varied between 3.14 ... and 6.28 ... as late as 1761.\n\nThe development of computers in the mid-20th century again revolutionized the hunt for digits of . American mathematicians John Wrench and Levi Smith reached 1,120 digits in 1949 using a desk calculator. Using an inverse tangent (arctan) infinite series, a team led by George Reitwiesner and John von Neumann that same year achieved 2,037 digits with a calculation that took 70 hours of computer time on the ENIAC computer. The record, always relying on an arctan series, was broken repeatedly (7,480 digits in 1957; 10,000 digits in 1958; 100,000 digits in 1961) until 1 million digits were reached in 1973.\n\nTwo additional developments around 1980 once again accelerated the ability to compute . First, the discovery of new iterative algorithms for computing , which were much faster than the infinite series; and second, the invention of fast multiplication algorithms that could multiply large numbers very rapidly. Such algorithms are particularly important in modern computations because most of the computer's time is devoted to multiplication. They include the Karatsuba algorithm, Toom–Cook multiplication, and Fourier transform-based methods.\n\nThe iterative algorithms were independently published in 1975–1976 by American physicist Eugene Salamin and Australian scientist Richard Brent. These avoid reliance on infinite series. An iterative algorithm repeats a specific calculation, each iteration using the outputs from prior steps as its inputs, and produces a result in each step that converges to the desired value. The approach was actually invented over 160 years earlier by Carl Friedrich Gauss, in what is now termed the arithmetic–geometric mean method (AGM method) or Gauss–Legendre algorithm. As modified by Salamin and Brent, it is also referred to as the Brent–Salamin algorithm.\n\nThe iterative algorithms were widely used after 1980 because they are faster than infinite series algorithms: whereas infinite series typically increase the number of correct digits additively in successive terms, iterative algorithms generally \"multiply\" the number of correct digits at each step. For example, the Brent-Salamin algorithm doubles the number of digits in each iteration. In 1984, the Canadian brothers John and Peter Borwein produced an iterative algorithm that quadruples the number of digits in each step; and in 1987, one that increases the number of digits five times in each step. Iterative methods were used by Japanese mathematician Yasumasa Kanada to set several records for computing between 1995 and 2002. This rapid convergence comes at a price: the iterative algorithms require significantly more memory than infinite series.\n\nFor most numerical calculations involving , a handful of digits provide sufficient precision. According to Jörg Arndt and Christoph Haenel, thirty-nine digits are sufficient to perform most cosmological calculations, because that is the accuracy necessary to calculate the circumference of the observable universe with a precision of one atom. Accounting for additional digits needed to compensate for computational round-off errors, Arndt concludes that a few hundred digits would suffice for any scientific application. Despite this, people have worked strenuously to compute to thousands and millions of digits. This effort may be partly ascribed to the human compulsion to break records, and such achievements with often make headlines around the world. They also have practical benefits, such as testing supercomputers, testing numerical analysis algorithms (including high-precision multiplication algorithms); and within pure mathematics itself, providing data for evaluating the randomness of the digits of .\n\nModern calculators do not use iterative algorithms exclusively. New infinite series were discovered in the 1980s and 1990s that are as fast as iterative algorithms, yet are simpler and less memory intensive. The fast iterative algorithms were anticipated in 1914, when the Indian mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan published dozens of innovative new formulae for , remarkable for their elegance, mathematical depth, and rapid convergence. One of his formulae, based on modular equations, is\nThis series converges much more rapidly than most arctan series, including Machin's formula. Bill Gosper was the first to use it for advances in the calculation of , setting a record of 17 million digits in 1985. Ramanujan's formulae anticipated the modern algorithms developed by the Borwein brothers and the Chudnovsky brothers. The Chudnovsky formula developed in 1987 is\nIt produces about 14 digits of per term, and has been used for several record-setting calculations, including the first to surpass 1 billion (10) digits in 1989 by the Chudnovsky brothers, 2.7 trillion (2.7×10) digits by Fabrice Bellard in 2009, 10 trillion (10) digits in 2011 by Alexander Yee and Shigeru Kondo, and the current record of over 22 trillion digits in 2016 by Peter Trueb. For similar formulas, see also the Ramanujan–Sato series.\n\nIn 2006, Canadian mathematician Simon Plouffe used the PSLQ integer relation algorithm to generate several new formulas for , conforming to the following template:\nwhere is (Gelfond's constant), is an odd number, and are certain rational numbers that Plouffe computed.\n\nMonte Carlo methods, which evaluate the results of multiple random trials, can be used to create approximations of . Buffon's needle is one such technique: If a needle of length is dropped times on a surface on which parallel lines are drawn units apart, and if of those times it comes to rest crossing a line ( > 0), then one may approximate based on the counts:\n\nAnother Monte Carlo method for computing is to draw a circle inscribed in a square, and randomly place dots in the square. The ratio of dots inside the circle to the total number of dots will approximately equal .\nAnother way to calculate using probability is to start with a random walk, generated by a sequence of (fair) coin tosses: independent random variables such that with equal probabilities. The associated random walk is\nso that, for each , is drawn from a shifted and scaled binomial distribution. As varies, defines a (discrete) stochastic process. Then can be calculated by\nThis Monte Carlo method is independent of any relation to circles, and is a consequence of the central limit theorem, discussed below.\n\nThese Monte Carlo methods for approximating are very slow compared to other methods, and do not provide any information on the exact number of digits that are obtained. Thus they are never used to approximate when speed or accuracy is desired.\n\nTwo algorithms were discovered in 1995 that opened up new avenues of research into . They are called spigot algorithms because, like water dripping from a spigot, they produce single digits of that are not reused after they are calculated. This is in contrast to infinite series or iterative algorithms, which retain and use all intermediate digits until the final result is produced.\n\nAmerican mathematicians Stan Wagon and Stanley Rabinowitz produced a simple spigot algorithm in 1995. Its speed is comparable to arctan algorithms, but not as fast as iterative algorithms.\n\nAnother spigot algorithm, the BBP digit extraction algorithm, was discovered in 1995 by Simon Plouffe:\nThis formula, unlike others before it, can produce any individual hexadecimal digit of without calculating all the preceding digits. Individual binary digits may be extracted from individual hexadecimal digits, and octal digits can be extracted from one or two hexadecimal digits. Variations of the algorithm have been discovered, but no digit extraction algorithm has yet been found that rapidly produces decimal digits. An important application of digit extraction algorithms is to validate new claims of record computations: After a new record is claimed, the decimal result is converted to hexadecimal, and then a digit extraction algorithm is used to calculate several random hexadecimal digits near the end; if they match, this provides a measure of confidence that the entire computation is correct.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2000, the distributed computing project PiHex used Bellard's formula (a modification of the BBP algorithm) to compute the quadrillionth (10th) bit of , which turned out to be 0. In September 2010, a Yahoo! employee used the company's Hadoop application on one thousand computers over a 23-day period to compute 256 bits of at the two-quadrillionth (2×10th) bit, which also happens to be zero.\n\nBecause is closely related to the circle, it is found in many formulae from the fields of geometry and trigonometry, particularly those concerning circles, spheres, or ellipses. Other branches of science, such as statistics, physics, Fourier analysis, and number theory, also include in some of their important formulae.\n\n appears in formulae for areas and volumes of geometrical shapes based on circles, such as ellipses, spheres, cones, and tori. Below are some of the more common formulae that involve .\n\nThe formulae above are special cases of the volume of the \"n\"-dimensional ball and the surface area of its boundary, the (\"n\"−1)-dimensional sphere, given below.\n\nDefinite integrals that describe circumference, area, or volume of shapes generated by circles typically have values that involve . For example, an integral that specifies half the area of a circle of radius one is given by:\n\nIn that integral the function represents the top half of a circle (the square root is a consequence of the Pythagorean theorem), and the integral computes the area between that half of a circle and the axis.\n\nThe trigonometric functions rely on angles, and mathematicians generally use radians as units of measurement. plays an important role in angles measured in radians, which are defined so that a complete circle spans an angle of 2 radians. The angle measure of 180° is equal to radians, and 1° = /180 radians.\n\nCommon trigonometric functions have periods that are multiples of ; for example, sine and cosine have period 2, so for any angle and any integer ,\n\nMany of the appearances of in the formulas of mathematics and the sciences have to do with its close relationship with geometry. However, also appears in many natural situations having apparently nothing to do with geometry.\n\nIn many applications, it plays a distinguished role as an eigenvalue. For example, an idealized vibrating string can be modelled as the graph of a function on the unit interval , with fixed ends . The modes of vibration of the string are solutions of the differential equation . Here is an associated eigenvalue, which is constrained by Sturm–Liouville theory to take on only certain specific values. It must be positive, since the second derivative is negative definite, so it is convenient to write where is called the wavenumber. Then satisfies the boundary conditions and the differential equation with .\n\nThe value is, in fact, the \"least\" such value of the wavenumber, and is associated with the fundamental mode of vibration of the string. One way to obtain this is by estimating the energy. The energy satisfies an inequality, Wirtinger's inequality for functions, which states that if a function is given such that and and are both square integrable, then the inequality holds:\nand the case of equality holds precisely when is a multiple of . So appears as an optimal constant in Wirtinger's inequality, and from this it follows that it is the smallest such wavenumber, using the variational characterization of the eigenvalue. As a consequence, is the smallest singular value of the derivative on the space of functions on vanishing at both endpoints (the Sobolev space formula_32).\n\nThe number serves appears in similar eigenvalue problems in higher-dimensional analysis. As mentioned above, it can be characterized via its role as the best constant in the isoperimetric inequality: the area enclosed by a plane Jordan curve of perimeter satisfies the inequality\nand equality is clearly achieved for the circle, since in that case and .\n\nUltimately as a consequence of the isoperimetric inequality, appears in the optimal constant for the critical Sobolev inequality in \"n\" dimensions, which thus characterizes the role of in many physical phenomena as well, for example those of classical potential theory. In two dimensions, the critical Sobolev inequality is\nfor \"f\" a smooth function with compact support in , formula_35 is the gradient of \"f\", and formula_36 and formula_37 refer respectively to the and -norm. The Sobolev inequality is equivalent to the isoperimetric inequality (in any dimension), with the same best constants.\n\nWirtinger's inequality also generalizes to higher-dimensional Poincaré inequalities that provide best constants for the Dirichlet energy of an \"n\"-dimensional membrane. Specifically, is the greatest constant such that\nfor all convex subsets of of diameter 1, and square-integrable functions \"u\" on of mean zero. Just as Wirtinger's inequality is the variational form of the Dirichlet eigenvalue problem in one dimension, the Poincaré inequality is the variational form of the Neumann eigenvalue problem, in any dimension.\n\nThe constant also appears as a critical spectral parameter in the Fourier transform. This is the integral transform, that takes a complex-valued integrable function on the real line to the function defined as:\nThere are several different conventions for the Fourier transform, all of which involve a factor of that is placed \"somewhere\". The appearance of is essential in these formulas, as there is there is no possibility to remove altogether from the Fourier transform and its inverse transform. The definition given above is the most canonical, however, because it describes the unique unitary operator on that is also an algebra homomorphism of to .\n\nThe Heisenberg uncertainty principle also contains the number . The uncertainty principle gives a sharp lower bound on the extent to which it is possible to localize a function both in space and in frequency: with our conventions for the Fourier transform,\nThe physical consequence, about the uncertainty in simultaneous position and momentum observations of a quantum mechanical system, is discussed below. The appearance of in the formulae of Fourier analysis is ultimately a consequence of the Stone–von Neumann theorem, asserting the uniqueness of the Schrödinger representation of the Heisenberg group.\n\nThe fields of probability and statistics frequently use the normal distribution as a simple model for complex phenomena; for example, scientists generally assume that the observational error in most experiments follows a normal distribution. The Gaussian function, which is the probability density function of the normal distribution with mean and standard deviation , naturally contains :\n\nFor this to be a probability density, the area under the graph of needs to be equal to one. This follows from a change of variables in the Gaussian integral:\n\nwhich says that the area under the basic bell curve in the figure is equal to the square root of .\nThe central limit theorem explains the central role of normal distributions, and thus of , in probability and statistics. This theorem is ultimately connected with the spectral characterization of as the eigenvalue associated with the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, and the fact that equality holds in the uncertainty principle only for the Gaussian function. Equivalently, is the unique constant making the Gaussian normal distribution equal to its own Fourier transform. Indeed, according to , the \"whole business\" of establishing the fundamental theorems of Fourier analysis reduces to the Gaussian integral.\n\nLet be the set of all twice differentiable real functions formula_43 that satisfy the ordinary differential equation formula_44. Then is a two-dimensional real vector space, with two parameters corresponding to a pair of initial conditions for the differential equation. For any formula_45, let formula_46 be the evaluation functional, which associates to each formula_47 the value formula_48 of the function at the real point . Then, for each \"t\", the kernel of formula_49 is a one-dimensional linear subspace of . Hence formula_50 defines a function from formula_51 from the real line to the real projective line. This function is periodic, and the quantity can be characterized as the period of this map.\n\nThe constant appears in the Gauss–Bonnet formula which relates the differential geometry of surfaces to their topology. Specifically, if a compact surface has Gauss curvature \"K\", then\nwhere is the Euler characteristic, which is an integer. An example is the surface area of a sphere \"S\" of curvature 1 (so that its radius of curvature, which coincides with its radius, is also 1.) The Euler characteristic of a sphere can be computed from its homology groups and is found to be equal to two. Thus we have\nreproducing the formula for the surface area of a sphere of radius 1.\n\nThe constant appears in many other integral formulae in topology, in particular, those involving characteristic classes via the Chern–Weil homomorphism.\n\nVector calculus is a branch of calculus that is concerned with the properties of vector fields, and has many physical applications such as to electricity and magnetism. The Newtonian potential for a point source situated at the origin of a three-dimensional Cartesian coordinate system is\nwhich represents the potential energy of a unit mass (or charge) placed a distance from the source, and is a dimensional constant. The field, denoted here by , which may be the (Newtonian) gravitational field or the (Coulomb) electric field, is the negative gradient of the potential:\nSpecial cases include Coulomb's law and Newton's law of universal gravitation. Gauss' law states that the outward flux of the field through any smooth, simple, closed, orientable surface containing the origin is equal to :\n\nIt is standard to absorb this factor of into the constant , but this argument shows why it must appear \"somewhere\". Furthermore, is the surface area of the unit sphere, but we have not assumed that is the sphere. However, as a consequence of the divergence theorem, because the region away from the origin is vacuum (source-free) it is only the homology class of the surface in that matters in computing the integral, so it can be replaced by any convenient surface in the same homology class, in particular, a sphere, where spherical coordinates can be used to calculate the integral.\n\nA consequence of the Gauss law is that the negative Laplacian of the potential is equal to times the Dirac delta function:\nMore general distributions of matter (or charge) are obtained from this by convolution, giving the Poisson equation\nwhere is the distribution function.\nThe constant also plays an analogous role in four-dimensional potentials associated with Einstein's equations, a fundamental formula which forms the basis of the general theory of relativity and describes the fundamental interaction of gravitation as a result of spacetime being curved by matter and energy:\nwhere is the Ricci curvature tensor, is the scalar curvature, is the metric tensor, is the cosmological constant, is Newton's gravitational constant, is the speed of light in vacuum, and is the stress–energy tensor. The left-hand side of Einstein's equation is a non-linear analog of the Laplacian of the metric tensor, and reduces to that in the weak field limit, with the formula_59 term playing the role of a Lagrange multiplier, and the right-hand side is the analog of the distribution function, times .\n\nOne of the key tools in complex analysis is contour integration of a function over a positively oriented (rectifiable) Jordan curve . A form of Cauchy's integral formula states that if a point is interior to , then\n\nAlthough the curve is not a circle, and hence does not have any obvious connection to the constant , a standard proof of this result uses Morera's theorem, which implies that the integral is invariant under homotopy of the curve, so that it can be deformed to a circle and then integrated explicitly in polar coordinates. More generally, it is true that if a rectifiable closed curve does not contain , then the above integral is times the winding number of the curve.\n\nThe general form of Cauchy's integral formula establishes the relationship between the values of a complex analytic function on the Jordan curve and the value of at any interior point of :\nprovided is analytic in the region enclosed by and extends continuously to . Cauchy's integral formula is a special case of the residue theorem, that if is a meromorphic function the region enclosed by and is continuous in a neighborhood of , then\nwhere the sum is of the residues at the poles of .\n\nThe factorial function is the product of all of the positive integers through . The gamma function extends the concept of factorial (normally defined only for non-negative integers) to all complex numbers, except the negative real integers. When the gamma function is evaluated at half-integers, the result contains ; for example formula_63 and formula_64.\n\nThe gamma function is defined by its Weierstrass product development:\nwhere is the Euler–Mascheroni constant. Evaluated at and squared, the equation reduces to the Wallis product formula. The gamma function is also connected to the Riemann zeta function and identities for the functional determinant, in which the constant plays an important role.\n\nThe gamma function is used to calculate the volume of the \"n\"-dimensional ball of radius \"r\" in Euclidean \"n\"-dimensional space, and the surface area of its boundary, the (\"n\"−1)-dimensional sphere:\n\nFurther, it follows from the functional equation that\n\nThe gamma function can be used to create a simple approximation to the factorial function for large : formula_69 which is known as Stirling's approximation. Equivalently,\n\nAs a geometrical application of Stirling's approximation, let denote the standard simplex in \"n\"-dimensional Euclidean space, and denote the simplex having all of its sides scaled up by a factor of . Then\n\nEhrhart's volume conjecture is that this is the (optimal) upper bound on the volume of a convex body containing only one lattice point.\n\nThe Riemann zeta function is used in many areas of mathematics. When evaluated at it can be written as\nFinding a simple solution for this infinite series was a famous problem in mathematics called the Basel problem. Leonhard Euler solved it in 1735 when he showed it was equal to . Euler's result leads to the number theory result that the probability of two random numbers being relatively prime (that is, having no shared factors) is equal to . This probability is based on the observation that the probability that any number is divisible by a prime is (for example, every 7th integer is divisible by 7.) Hence the probability that two numbers are both divisible by this prime is , and the probability that at least one of them is not is . For distinct primes, these divisibility events are mutually independent; so the probability that two numbers are relatively prime is given by a product over all primes:\n\nThis probability can be used in conjunction with a random number generator to approximate using a Monte Carlo approach.\n\nThe solution to the Basel problem implies that the geometrically derived quantity is connected in a deep way to the distribution of prime numbers. This is a special case of Weil's conjecture on Tamagawa numbers, which asserts the equality of similar such infinite products of \"arithmetic\" quantities, localized at each prime \"p\", and a \"geometrical\" quantity: the reciprocal of the volume of a certain locally symmetric space. In the case of the Basel problem, it is the hyperbolic 3-manifold .\n\nThe zeta function also satisfies Riemann's functional equation, which involves as well as the gamma function:\n\nFurthermore, the derivative of the zeta function satisfies\nA consequence is that can be obtained from the functional determinant of the harmonic oscillator. This functional determinant can be computed via a product expansion, and is equivalent to the Wallis product formula. The calculation can be recast in quantum mechanics, specifically the variational approach to the spectrum of the hydrogen atom.\n\nThe constant also appears naturally in Fourier series of periodic functions. Periodic functions are functions on the group of fractional parts of real numbers. The Fourier decomposition shows that a complex-valued function on can be written as an infinite linear superposition of unitary characters of . That is, continuous group homomorphisms from to the circle group of unit modulus complex numbers. It is a theorem that every character of is one of the complex exponentials formula_76.\n\nThere is a unique character on , up to complex conjugation, that is a group isomorphism. Using the Haar measure on the circle group, the constant is half the magnitude of the Radon–Nikodym derivative of this character. The other characters have derivatives whose magnitudes are positive integral multiples of 2. As a result, the constant is the unique number such that the group T, equipped with its Haar measure, is Pontrjagin dual to the lattice of integral multiples of 2. This is a version of the one-dimensional Poisson summation formula.\n\nThe constant is connected in a deep way with the theory of modular forms and theta functions. For example, the Chudnovsky algorithm involves in an essential way the j-invariant of an elliptic curve.\n\nModular forms are holomorphic functions in the upper half plane characterized by their transformation properties under the modular group formula_77 (or its various subgroups), a lattice in the group formula_78. An example is the Jacobi theta function\nwhich is a kind of modular form called a Jacobi form. This is sometimes written in terms of the nome formula_80.\n\nThe constant is the unique constant making the Jacobi theta function an automorphic form, which means that it transforms in a specific way. Certain identities hold for all automorphic forms. An example is\nwhich implies that transforms as a representation under the discrete Heisenberg group. General modular forms and other theta functions also involve , once again because of the Stone–von Neumann theorem.\n\nThe Cauchy distribution\n\nis a probability density function. The total probability is equal to one, owing to the integral:\n\nThe Shannon entropy of the Cauchy distribution is equal to , which also involves .\nThe Cauchy distribution plays an important role in potential theory because it is the simplest Furstenberg measure, the classical Poisson kernel associated with a Brownian motion in a half-plane. Conjugate harmonic functions and so also the Hilbert transform are associated with the asymptotics of the Poisson kernel. The Hilbert transform \"H\" is the integral transform given by the Cauchy principal value of the singular integral\n\nThe constant is the unique (positive) normalizing factor such that \"H\" defines a linear complex structure on the Hilbert space of square-integrable real-valued functions on the real line. The Hilbert transform, like the Fourier transform, can be characterized purely in terms of its transformation properties on the Hilbert space : up to a normalization factor, it is the unique bounded linear operator that commutes with positive dilations and anti-commutes with all reflections of the real line. The constant is the unique normalizing factor that makes this transformation unitary.\n\nAn occurrence of in the Mandelbrot set fractal was discovered by David Boll in 1991. He examined the behavior of the Mandelbrot set near the \"neck\" at (−0.75, 0). If points with coordinates (−0.75, ε) are considered, as ε tends to zero, the number of iterations until divergence for the point multiplied by ε converges to . The point (0.25, ε) at the cusp of the large \"valley\" on the right side of the Mandelbrot set behaves similarly: the number of iterations until divergence multiplied by the square root of ε tends to .\n\nAlthough not a physical constant, appears routinely in equations describing fundamental principles of the universe, often because of 's relationship to the circle and to spherical coordinate systems. A simple formula from the field of classical mechanics gives the approximate period of a simple pendulum of length , swinging with a small amplitude ( is the earth's gravitational acceleration):\nOne of the key formulae of quantum mechanics is Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, which shows that the uncertainty in the measurement of a particle's position (Δ) and momentum (Δ) cannot both be arbitrarily small at the same time (where is Planck's constant):\n\nThe fact that is approximately equal to 3 plays a role in the relatively long lifetime of orthopositronium. The inverse lifetime to lowest order in the fine-structure constant is\nwhere is the mass of the electron.\n\nThe field of fluid dynamics contains in Stokes' law, which approximates the frictional force exerted on small, spherical objects of radius , moving with velocity in a fluid with dynamic viscosity :\n\nIn electromagnetics, the vacuum permeability constant \"μ\" appears in Maxwell's equations, which describe the properties of electric and magnetic fields and electromagnetic radiation. It is defined as exactly\nA relation for the speed of light in vacuum, can be derived from Maxwell's equations in the medium of classical vacuum using a relationship between \"μ\" and the electric constant (vacuum permittivity), in SI units:\n\nUnder ideal conditions (uniform gentle slope on a homogeneously erodible substrate), the sinuosity of a meandering river approaches . The sinuosity is the ratio between the actual length and the straight-line distance from source to mouth. Faster currents along the outside edges of a river's bends cause more erosion than along the inside edges, thus pushing the bends even farther out, and increasing the overall loopiness of the river. However, that loopiness eventually causes the river to double back on itself in places and \"short-circuit\", creating an ox-bow lake in the process. The balance between these two opposing factors leads to an average ratio of between the actual length and the direct distance between source and mouth.\n\nPiphilology is the practice of memorizing large numbers of digits of , and world-records are kept by the \"Guinness World Records\". The record for memorizing digits of , certified by Guinness World Records, is 70,000 digits, recited in India by Rajveer Meena in 9 hours and 27 minutes on 21 March 2015. In 2006, Akira Haraguchi, a retired Japanese engineer, claimed to have recited 100,000 decimal places, but the claim was not verified by Guinness World Records.\n\nOne common technique is to memorize a story or poem in which the word lengths represent the digits of : The first word has three letters, the second word has one, the third has four, the fourth has one, the fifth has five, and so on. An early example of a memorization aid, originally devised by English scientist James Jeans, is \"How I want a drink, alcoholic of course, after the heavy lectures involving quantum mechanics.\" When a poem is used, it is sometimes referred to as a \"piem\". Poems for memorizing have been composed in several languages in addition to English. Record-setting memorizers typically do not rely on poems, but instead use methods such as remembering number patterns and the method of loci.\n\nA few authors have used the digits of to establish a new form of constrained writing, where the word lengths are required to represent the digits of . The \"Cadaeic Cadenza\" contains the first 3835 digits of in this manner, and the full-length book \"Not a Wake\" contains 10,000 words, each representing one digit of .\n\nPerhaps because of the simplicity of its definition and its ubiquitous presence in formulae, has been represented in popular culture more than other mathematical constructs.\n\nIn the 2008 Open University and BBC documentary co-production, \"The Story of Maths\", aired in October 2008 on BBC Four, British mathematician Marcus du Sautoy shows a visualization of the – historically first exact – formula for calculating when visiting India and exploring its contributions to trigonometry.\n\nIn the Palais de la Découverte (a science museum in Paris) there is a circular room known as the \"pi room\". On its wall are inscribed 707 digits of . The digits are large wooden characters attached to the dome-like ceiling. The digits were based on an 1853 calculation by English mathematician William Shanks, which included an error beginning at the 528th digit. The error was detected in 1946 and corrected in 1949.\n\nIn Carl Sagan's novel \"Contact\" it is suggested that the creator of the universe buried a message deep within the digits of . The digits of have also been incorporated into the lyrics of the song \"Pi\" from the album \"Aerial\" by Kate Bush.\n\nIn the United States, Pi Day falls on 14 March (written 3/14 in the US style), and is popular among students. and its digital representation are often used by self-described \"math geeks\" for inside jokes among mathematically and technologically minded groups. Several college cheers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology include \"3.14159\". Pi Day in 2015 was particularly significant because the date and time 3/14/15 9:26:53 reflected many more digits of pi.\n\nDuring the 2011 auction for Nortel's portfolio of valuable technology patents, Google made a series of unusually specific bids based on mathematical and scientific constants, including .\nIn 1958 Albert Eagle proposed replacing by (tau), where , to simplify formulas. However, no other authors are known to use in this way. Some people use a different value, , arguing that , as the number of radians in one turn or as the ratio of a circle's circumference to its radius rather than its diameter, is more natural than and simplifies many formulas. Celebrations of this number, because it approximately equals 6.28, by making 28 June \"Tau Day\" and eating \"twice the pie\", have been reported in the media. However, this use of has not made its way into mainstream mathematics.\n\nIn 1897, an amateur American mathematician attempted to persuade the Indiana legislature to pass the Indiana Pi Bill, which described a method to square the circle and contained text that implied various incorrect values for , including 3.2. The bill is notorious as an attempt to establish a value of scientific constant by legislative fiat. The bill was passed by the Indiana House of Representatives, but rejected by the Senate, meaning it did not become a law.\n\nIn contemporary internet culture, individuals and organizations frequently pay homage to the number . For instance, the computer scientist Donald Knuth let the version numbers of his program TeX approach . The versions are 3, 3.1, 3.14, and so forth.\n\nFootnotes\nReferences\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24332168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24332168", "title": "Pittailiniit", "text": "Pittailiniit\n\nPittailiniit (Inuit: ᐱᑦᑕᐃᓕᓃᑦ) refers to ritual prohibitions and taboos within Inuit culture.\n\nThe Canadian Translation Bureau uses the term to refer to legal prohibitions in general.\n\nOne example included a prohibition on helping others who had broken other pittailiniit in their times of need.\n"}
{"id": "1780029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1780029", "title": "Planet of Giants", "text": "Planet of Giants\n\nPlanet of Giants is the first serial of the second season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in three weekly parts from 31 October to 14 November 1964.\n\nIn the serial, the First Doctor (William Hartnell), his granddaughter Susan Foreman (Carole Ann Ford), and teachers Ian Chesterton (William Russell) and Barbara Wright (Jacqueline Hill) are shrunk to the size of an inch after the Doctor's time machine the TARDIS arrives in contemporary England. The Doctor and Susan head inside a laboratory to find Ian and Barbara after the two parties get separated.\n\nDespite indications of a malfunction in the TARDIS, its fault locator shows nothing is wrong and that it is safe to go outside. The Doctor, Ian, Barbara and Susan consequently explore the vicinity, finding the remains of giant earthworm and ant, which appear to have died instantaneously. The travellers realise they have returned to Earth but have shrunk to the height of an inch.\n\nIan is investigating the interior of a discarded matchbox when someone picks it up. That someone is a government scientist called Farrow who is visiting a callous industrialist named Forester to tell him that his application for a new insecticide called DN6 has been rejected as it is far too deadly to all forms of insect life. News of this appraisal prompts Forester to fatally shoot Farrow. The Doctor, Barbara and Susan hear the gunshot and head for the house to find Ian unhurt near Farrow’s corpse.\n\nForester’s aide, Smithers, arrives but does not report the murder for fear of undermining the DN6 project to which he has dedicated his life. Ian and Barbara hide inside Farrow's briefcase to avoid being stepped on by Forester and Smithers, and get separated from the Doctor and Susan after the briefcase is brought inside the house. The Doctor and Susan climb up a drain pipe to find them. Forester alters Farrow’s report to give support to the DN6 licence application and, disguising his voice as Farrow’s, makes a supportive phonecall to the ministry to the same effect. This is overheard by the local telephone operator, Hilda Rowse, and her policeman husband, Bert, who suspect something is wrong.\n\nWithin the house, Ian and Barbara encounter a giant fly, which is killed instantly when it contacts sample seeds that had been sprayed with DN6. Barbara had foolishly handled one of these seeds and begins to feel unwell. The Doctor, realising the toxic nature of DN6 and the probable contamination of Barbara, proposes they alert someone by hoisting up the giant telephone receiver, but they cannot make themselves heard. At the telephone exchange, the engaged signal makes Hilda and Bert increasingly concerned. Bert heads off to the house to investigate.\n\nThe Doctor and his companions decide to attract attention by starting a fire, succeeding in manoeuvring an aerosol can into the flames of the Bunsen burner gas outlet. This coincides with Smithers discovering the true virulence of DN6 and demanding Forester cease his licence application. In the lab, the makeshift bomb explodes in Forester’s face as PC Rowse arrives.\n\nBack in the TARDIS the Doctor succeeds in returning the craft and crew to normal size, a process which cures Barbara of her infection by DN6.\n\nAn early version of this concept – by C. E. Webber and entitled \"The Giants\" – was originally meant to be the first story of the first season. \"Planet of Giants\" was recorded in the production block, but it was decided to hold it for transmission as the start of season 2. This story was originally four episodes in length. Upon viewing Episodes 3 and 4, which focused more heavily on Hilda and Bert, Head of Serials Donald Wilson ordered them spliced together in order to form a faster-paced climax (Episode 3) focusing on the core characters of the series. Episode 4 was called \"The Urge to Live\" and directed by Douglas Camfield (instead of Mervyn Pinfield, who directed Episodes 1-3). When Episodes 3 and 4 were edited together to make the new Episode 3, only Camfield was credited.\n\nThe decision to splice the last two episodes into one would have ramifications for the second production block of the series, when the producers were left with a one-episode space following \"Galaxy 4\". Rather than producing a single-episode stand-alone story or extend any of the planned serials, \"Mission to the Unknown\" was commissioned to serve as a prelude to \"The Daleks' Master Plan\" without the participation of any of the regular cast. This was produced in the same block as \"Galaxy 4\", and both were held over to form the first five episodes of Season 3.\n\nIn 2008, \"Radio Times\" reviewer Patrick Mulkern wrote that the story had ambition and impressive set design, but felt that \"the drama itself is less than enthralling\". He pegged the scientists to stereotypes and found it disappointing that they did not directly interact with the miniature TARDIS crew about their plans. Mulkern also noted that Barbara \"[came] across as uncharacteristically wet\" and Dudley Simpson's score was \"annoyingly childish\". DVD Talk's John Sinnott gave \"Planet of Giants\" three out of five stars, feeling that it was an average \"solid installment\". Sinnott noted that it was a strange story because the TARDIS crew did not directly interact with the \"pretty stupid\" criminals and they seemed more concerned about exploring than returning to their normal size. Dave Golder of \"SFX\" gave the serial two and a half out of five stars, feeling that it was \"undeniably slow, talky and lacking in excitement\" and \"not quite in synch with the main show\" because Barbara and Ian never note that they are in contemporary Britain, to which they are trying to return. Despite praising the TARDIS crew for using \"intelligence, ingenuity and simple science to get themselves out of problems\", he felt they lacked their usual chemistry and also criticised Barbara's characterisation. \"The A.V. Club\" reviewer Christopher Bahn described the serial as \"not lacking in ambitious ideas but never quite [gelling] together, and a last-minute re-edit that condensed the original third and fourth episodes into one hurt the story more than it helped\". Bahn felt that the script \"is constantly undercutting its own dramatic potential in subtle but pervasive ways\", such as when the characters tried calling the police on a telephone, and the \"plot-dragger\" of Barbara keeping her illness a secret. However, he praised set design and acting of Hill and Tilvern.\n\n Episode is missing\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in January 1990. It was the final serial of the William Hartnell era to be novelised. The novel also reinstated much of the material cut to make the televised serial into three episodes.\n\nThis serial was released on VHS in 2002; it was the first commercially released story to receive the VidFIRE process. It was released on DVD in Region 2 on 20 August 2012.\n\nThe 2012 DVD includes recreations of the original Episodes 3 and 4, based on the original scripts and featuring newly recorded dialogue from regular cast members Ford and Russell and other actors impersonating the remaining (all deceased) cast. A variety of techniques were used to re-create the missing visual material, but most of this was done by re-editing existing footage from the finished episode 3.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24735272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24735272", "title": "Postmodern vertigo", "text": "Postmodern vertigo\n\nPostmodern Vertigo is a description of a panic that occurs when somebody considers the reality of their own existence but no longer accepts truth or structure in their thought. Suddenly the thinker no longer believes in anything, everything seeming like a fabrication. Thought become meaningless and a feeling akin to vertigo is experienced. Many writers have described this feeling as \"the void\" or as a \"crisis of postmodernism\". Another term which has a similar meaning is anomie. Whereas a crisis of postmodernism describes the thought or meaning of viewing existence as a false construct and the void creates a metaphoric representation and Anomie refers to the philosophical dead end, Post-modern vertigo more specifically has been used to refer to this feeling when it takes on a physiological manifestation, causing an increase in heart rate and sweating.\n\nPostmodern vertigo might be a form of existential crisis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4496818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4496818", "title": "Psychorama", "text": "Psychorama\n\nPsychorama, also called the precon process, is the act of communicating subliminal information through film by flashing images on the screen so quickly that they cannot be perceived by the conscious mind.\n\nIn 1958, a film called \"My World Dies Screaming\" (later retitled \"Terror in the Haunted House\") marked Hollywood's first attempt to make use of this technique. At different points in this film, a skull is flashed to inspire terror, a snake to inspire hate, two hearts to inspire love, and large letters spelling out \"blood\" to create fear. It was produced by William Edwards, written by Robert C. Dennis, and directed by Harold Daniels. It starred Gerald Mohr and Cathy O'Donnell. Makeup was handled by Harry Thomas, who worked on a number of Ed Wood movies in the 50s. The plot concerned a woman who is brought by her husband to live in an old house that she saw many times before in her nightmares, and she desperately tries to get him to leave the house before something terrible happens.\n\nThe following year, 1959, saw another film produced using this same format, titled \"A Date with Death\". This film also starred Gerald Mohr, coincidentally.\n\nThe technique of psychorama has also been featured in more recent films, including \"The Exorcist\" and \"Fight Club\". In the later film, Tyler Durden splices images of pornography into family movies that play at the movie theater he works at as a part-time projectionist. \n\nThe band Evanescence used this technique in their Sweet Sacrifice music video. In it, images of bones, skulls, houses, fires, and videos of the band performing are flashed at various intervals. Evanescence also utilized samples from \"My World Dies Screaming\" in some versions of their song \"Understanding\", the demo of \"Whisper\" and the introduction to the album Origin.\n"}
{"id": "43732489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43732489", "title": "Purple economy", "text": "Purple economy\n\nThe purple economy is that part of the economy which contributes to sustainable development by promoting the cultural potential of goods and services.\n\n“The purple economy refers to taking account of cultural aspects in economics. It designates an economy that adapts to the human diversity in globalization and that relies on the cultural dimension to give value to goods and services.” These two trends, one vertical and one horizontal, feed one another. In fact the growth in the cultural component attached to products is linked to each territory’s cultural vitality.\n\nThe context of the purple economy is that of the growing importance of culture in contemporary society. The factors involved in this include in particular: a global economic and political readjustment in favour of emerging countries, a return to local environments (once again perceived as centres for stability), new forms of claims (following on from the collapse of the great ideologies), growing social demand for quality based on cultural consumption patterns (which go hand in hand with the logic of popularization, individualization and longer life expectancies), innovative approaches (that presuppose a cultural state of mind and interdisciplinarity conducive to serendipity), and so on.\n\nThe purple economy is multidisciplinary, in that it enriches all goods and services by capitalizing on the cultural dimension inherent to every sector. The sensory, experiential economy is one application of this.\n\nIt differs from the cultural economy, which is sector-based.\n\nIn June 2013, the conclusions of a first inter-institutional working group on the purple economy, formed of experts from UNESCO, the OECD, the International Organisation of the Francophonie, French ministries, various companies and civil society. That document underscored the impact of the phenomenon of culturalization, which now affects the entire economy, with follow-on effects on employment and training. The report differentiates between \"purple jobs\" and \"purplifying professions\": the former are directly linked to the cultural environment by their very purpose (like town planners and developers), while the latter are merely caused to transform under the effect of culturalization (such as positions in human resources or in marketing and communications).\n\nAnother reference document published in June 2017 mentioned various aspects of the human environment in which economics are likely to produce cultural benefits: architecture, art, colours, enjoyment, ethics, heritage, imagination, learning, social skills, singularity, etc.\n\nThe term first appeared in 2011, in France, in a manifest published on Le Monde.fr. The signatories included the board members of the association Diversum, which organized the first International Purple Economy Forum under the patronage of UNESCO, the European Parliament and the European Commission.\n\nThe purple economy emphasizes the presence of externalities: the cultural environment from which agents draw and on which, in return, they leave their own footprints is a common good. As a result, the purple economy sees culture as an axis for sustainable development.\n\nIn fact, culture has been a whole sub-section of sustainability since the beginning. Corporate social responsibility can even be said to have originated in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights adopted by the United Nations in 1966.\n\nThis issue is just one of the different components of sustainable development, alongside concerns relating to the natural environment (green economy) and to the social environment (social economy). The complementary nature of these aspects of the sustainable economy was reaffirmed in a call published by \"Le Monde Économie\" in 2015, leading up to the 21st United Nations Conference on Climate Change.\n"}
{"id": "445279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=445279", "title": "Reggio Emilia approach", "text": "Reggio Emilia approach\n\nThe Reggio Emilia approach is an educational philosophy focused on preschool and primary education. It is a pedagogy described as student-centered and constructivist that utilizes self-directed, experiential learning in relationship-driven environments. The program is based on the principles of respect, responsibility, and community through exploration and discovery through a self-guided curriculum. At its core is an assumption that children form their own personality during early years of development and are endowed with \"a hundred languages\", through which they can express their ideas. The aim of the Reggio approach is to teach how to use these symbolic languages (e.g., painting, sculpting, drama) in everyday life. It was developed after World War II by psychologist Loris Malaguzzi and parents in the villages around Reggio Emilia, Italy, and derives its name from the city.\n\nDuring the post-World War II era in Italy, the “…desire to bring change and create anew\" accompanied great economic and social development, including in education.\n\nBy the 1970s Malaguzzi’s method was known and appreciated by many educators especially thanks to the first exhibit opened at the Modern Museet in Stockholm, Sweden. In Italy, the National Group for Work and Study on Infant Toddler Centers was formed.\n\nOn May 24, 1994, the non-profit organization Friends of Reggio Children International Association was founded to promote the work of Loris Malaguzzi and organize professional development and cultural events. In November 2002, during the annual conference of the National Association for the Education of Young Children in Chicago, the North American Reggio Emilia Alliance was formally launched as an organization.\n\nIn 2003 the municipality of Reggio Emilia chose to manage the system and the network of school services and toddler centers by forming the \"Istituzione Scuole e Nidi d'Infanzia\". This allowed municipal schools and preschools to have independent programs and activities with support from the government.\n\nIn February 2006, the Loris Malaguzzi International Centre opened in Reggio Emilia, Italy, as a meeting place for professional development and research of the Reggio philosophy. On September 29, 2011, the non-profit Reggio Children-Loris Malaguzzi Centre Foundation was officially established at the Loris Malaguzzi International Centre with the aim of fostering “education and research to improve the lives of people and communities, in Reggio Emilia and in the world”.\n\nThe Reggio Emilia philosophy is based upon the following set of principles: \n\nThe Reggio Emilia approach to teaching young children puts the natural development of children as well as the close relationships that they share with their environment at the center of its philosophy. The foundation of the Reggio Emilia approach lies in its unique view of the child: to foster education in the youngest learners to promote the best possible integration among children’s \"100 languages\". In this approach, there is a belief that children have rights and should be given opportunities to develop their potential. Children are considered to be “knowledge bearers”, so they are encouraged to share their thoughts and ideas about everything they could meet or do during the day.\n“Influenced by this belief, the child is beheld as beautiful, powerful, competent, creative, curious, and full of potential and ambitious desires.\" The child is viewed as being an active constructor of knowledge. Rather than being seen as the target of instruction, children are seen as having the active role of an apprentice. This role also extends to that of a researcher. Much of the instruction at Reggio Emilia schools takes place in the form of projects where they have opportunities to explore, observe, hypothesize, question, and discuss to clarify their understanding. Children are also viewed as social beings and a focus is made on the child in relation to other children, the family, the teachers, and the community rather than on each child in isolation. They are taught that respect for everyone else is important because everyone is a “subjective agency ” while existing as part of a group.\n\nReggio Emilia's approach to early education reflects a theoretical kinship with John Dewey, Jean Piaget, Vygotsky and Jerome Bruner, among others. Much of what occurs in the class reflects a constructivist approach to early education. Reggio Emilia's approach does challenge some conceptions of teacher competence and developmentally appropriate practice. For example, teachers in Reggio Emilia assert the importance of being confused as a contributor to learning; thus a major teaching strategy is purposely to allow mistakes to happen, or to begin a project with no clear sense of where it might end. Another characteristic that is counter to the beliefs of many Western educators is the importance of the child's ability to negotiate in the peer group.\n\nOne of the most challenging aspects of the Reggio Emilia approach is the solicitation of multiple points of view regarding children's needs, interests, and abilities, and the concurrent faith in parents, teachers, and children to contribute in meaningful ways to the determination of school experiences. Teachers trust themselves to respond appropriately to children's ideas and interests, they trust children to be interested in things worth knowing about, and they trust parents to be informed and productive members of a cooperative educational team. The result is an atmosphere of community and collaboration that is developmentally appropriate for adults and children alike. \n\nReggio Emilia's tradition of community support for families with young children expands on a view, more strongly held in Emilia Romagna and Tuscany, of children as the collective responsibility of the local community. In Reggio Emilia, the infant/toddler and pre-primary program is a vital part of the community, as reflected in the high level of financial support. Community involvement is also apparent in citizen membership in La Consulta, a school committee that exerts significant influence over local government policy.\n\nParents are a vital component to the Reggio Emilia philosophy; they are viewed as partners, collaborators, and advocates for their children. Teachers respect parents as each child's first teacher and involve parents in every aspect of the curriculum. It is not uncommon to see parents volunteering within Reggio Emilia classrooms throughout the school. This philosophy does not end when the child leaves the classroom. Some parents who choose to send their children to a Reggio Emilia program incorporate many of the principles within their parenting and home life. The parents' role mirrors the community's, at both the school-wide and the classroom level. Parents are expected to take part in discussions about school policy, child development concerns, and curriculum planning and evaluation.\n\nIn the Reggio approach, the teacher is considered a co-learner and collaborator with the child and not just an instructor. Teachers are encouraged to facilitate the child's learning by planning activities and lessons based on the child's interests, asking questions to further understanding, and actively engaging in the activities alongside the child, instead of passively observing the child learning. \"As partner to the child, the teacher is inside the learning situation\" (Hewett, 2001).\n\nSome implementations of the Reggio Emilia approach self-consciously juxtapose their conception of the teacher as autonomous co-learner with other approaches. For example:\n\nTeachers' long-term commitment to enhancing their understanding of children is at the crux of the Reggio Emilia approach. They compensate for the meagre pre-service training of Italian early childhood teachers by providing extensive staff development opportunities, with goals determined by the teachers themselves. Teacher autonomy is evident in the absence of teacher manuals, curriculum guides, or achievement tests. The lack of externally imposed mandates is joined by the imperative that teachers become skilled observers of children in order to inform their curriculum planning and implementation.\n\nWhile working on projects with the child, the teacher can also expand the child's learning by collecting data that can be reviewed at a later time. The teacher needs to maintain an active, mutual participation in the activity to help ensure that the child clearly understands what is being \"taught\". Teachers partner with colleagues, students, and parents in the learning process. They discuss their observations with them, as part of an ongoing dialogue and continuing evolution of their ideas and practices. This allows them to be flexible in their plans, preparations, and teaching approaches.\n\nOften, teachers listen to and observe children in the classroom and record their observations to help plan the curriculum and prepare the environment and teaching tools to support the student's interests.\n\nUsing a variety of media, teachers give careful attention to the documentation and presentation of the thinking of the students. Rather than following standardized assessments, the teacher inquires and listens closely to the children. An example of documentation might be a book or panel with the student’s words, drawings, and photographs. By making learning visible, the student's thinking and feeling can be studied while the documentation serves to helps with evaluation of the educators' work and refinement of the curriculum. It provides parents information regarding their child’s learning experience while creating an archive for the class and school.\n\nMalaguzzi believed the physical environment to be of fundamental importance to the early childhood program; he referred to it as the \"third teacher\", alongside adults and other students. Static One of the aims in the design of new spaces - and the redesign of existing ones - is integration of the classroom space with the surrounding environment: the rest of the school, and community the school is a part of. The importance of the environment lies in the belief that children can best create meaning and make sense of their world through environments which support \"complex, varied, sustained, and changing relationships between people, the world of experience, ideas and the many ways of expressing ideas.\"\n\nPhysically, the preschools generally incorporate natural light and indoor plants. Classrooms open to a center piazza, kitchens are open to view, and access to the outside and surrounding community is provided through courtyards, large windows, and exterior doors in each classroom. Entries capture the attention of both children and adults through the use of mirrors (on the walls, floors, and ceilings), photographs, and children's work accompanied by transcriptions of their discussions. These same features characterize classroom interiors, where displays of project work are interspersed with arrays of found objects and classroom materials. In each case, the environment informs and engages the viewer.\n\nOther supportive elements of the environment include ample space for supplies, frequently rearranged to draw attention to their aesthetic features. In each classroom there are studio spaces in the form of a large, centrally located atelier and a smaller mini-atelier, and clearly designated spaces for large- and small-group activities. Throughout the school, there is an effort to create opportunities for children to interact. The single dress-up area is in the center piazza; classrooms are connected with telephones, passageways or windows; and lunchrooms and bathrooms are designed to encourage community.\n\nCohorts or groups of students stay with one teacher for a three-year period, creating consistency in environment and relationships.\n\nThe curriculum is characterized by many features advocated by contemporary research on young children, including real-life problem-solving among peers, with numerous opportunities for creative thinking and exploration. Teachers often work on projects with small groups of children, while the rest of the class engages in a wide variety of self-selected activities typical of preschool classrooms.\n\nThe projects that teachers and children engage in are different in a number of ways from those that characterize American teachers' conceptions of unit or thematic studies. The topic of investigation may derive directly from teacher observations of children's spontaneous play and exploration. Project topics are also selected on the basis of an academic curiosity or social concern on the part of teachers or parents, or serendipitous events that direct the attention of the children and teachers. Reggio teachers place a high value on their ability to improvise and respond to children's predisposition to enjoy the unexpected. Regardless of their origins, successful projects are those that generate a sufficient amount of interest and uncertainty to provoke children's creative thinking and problem-solving and are open to different avenues of exploration. Because curriculum decisions are based on developmental and sociocultural concerns, small groups of children of varying abilities and interests, including those with special needs, work together on projects.\n\nProjects begin with teachers observing and questioning children about the topic of interest. Based on children's responses, teachers introduce materials, questions, and opportunities that provoke children to further explore the topic. While some of these teacher provocations are anticipated, projects often move in unanticipated directions as a result of problems children identify. Thus, curriculum planning and implementation revolve around open-ended and often long-term projects that are based on the reciprocal nature of teacher-directed and child-initiated activity. All of the topics of interest are given by the children. Within the project approach, children are given opportunities to make connections between prior and new knowledge while engaging in authentic tasks...\n\nThe term \"hundred languages of children\" refers to the many ways that children have of expressing themselves. Reggio teachers provide children different avenues for thinking, revising, constructing, negotiating, developing and symbolically expressing their thoughts and feelings. The goal is for the adults and children to better understand one another.\n\nAs children proceed in an investigation, generating and testing their hypotheses, they are encouraged to depict their understanding through one of many symbolic languages, including drawing, sculpture, dramatic play, and writing. They work together toward the resolution of problems that arise. Teachers facilitate and then observe debates regarding the extent to which a child's drawing or other form of representation lives up to the expressed intent. Revision of drawings (and ideas) is encouraged, and teachers allow children to repeat activities and modify each other's work in the collective aim of better understanding the topic. Teachers foster children's involvement in the processes of exploration and evaluation, acknowledging the importance of their evolving products as vehicles for exchange.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40646199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40646199", "title": "Sawndip literature", "text": "Sawndip literature\n\nFor over one thousand years the Zhuang have used Sawndip to write a wide variety of literature, including folk songs, operas, poems, scriptures, letters, contracts, and court documents. The works include both entirely indigenous works and translations from Chinese, fact and fiction, religious and secular and give us insight in to the life of the Zhuang and the people they have had contact with over a period of two millennia, a writing tradition that is still alive to this day.\n\nSawndip literature is traditionally though not always written in verse. Only a small percentage of Sawndip literature has been published. Folk songs, or stories, are often adapted over time, for example \"Fwen Ciengzyeingz\", meaning \"Song to tell others\", gives a philosophy of life, and of which Liáng Tíngwàng observes from the proper pronouns used the song have their origin in Sui-Tang Dynasties and with its final form was set almost a thousand years later in the latter part of the Ming Dynasty.\n\nWhilst the rules are flexible the two main types of verse are either 5 characters a line or 7 characters a line, and commonly 4 lines to a stanza. In some texts whilst lines are resung several times in set combinations, the lines are only written once. Waist rhyming is common. Older manuscripts for antiphonal songs only record the male lyrics, whereas modern versions may include both male and female lyrics.\n\nOne fairy tale which has attracted much attention on recent years is \"The orphan girl and the rich girl\" an early version of the story Cinderella (Zhuang \"Dahgyax Dahbengz\" Dah - indicates female, gyax means orphan and bengz means rich) found in Zhuang opera scripts. A 9th century Chinese translation of the Zhuang story entitled Ye Xian was written in the Miscellaneous Morsels from Youyang and the Sawndip versions we now have are quite similar and analysis suggests these versions took shape no later than the 10th century.\n\n\"Song about Tang Emperors\" (\"𠯘唐皇\" Fwen Dangzvuengz), is about 5,000 lines long, and mainly about Li Dan the fifth and ninth emperor of Tang Dynasty born in 662， the content is similar to sections of the 18th century Chinese historical novel 《薛刚反唐》 hence some consider it to be an adaptation from the novel, however some manuscript evidence suggests it was already in circulation in the 17th century.\n\n\"The house-building song\" has been sung for over a thousand years this song has two parts, the first part describes the construction of a traditional stilt house and the second part the customs to ward off evil from the new home\n\n\"The Origin of the Bronze Drum\" tells of the origins of bronze drums that are like \"stars\" (such drums have a star in the middle of them), that they are as many as the stars of the sky and like stars can ward off evil spirits.\n"}
{"id": "38412771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38412771", "title": "Shadorma", "text": "Shadorma\n\nThe Shadorma is a poetic form consisting of a six-line stanza (or sestet). The form is alleged to have originated in Spain. Each stanza has a syllable count of three syllables in the first line, five syllables in the second line, three syllables in the third and fourth lines, seven syllables in the fifth line, and five syllables in the sixth line (3/5/3/3/7/5) for a total of 26 syllables. A poem may consist of one stanza, or an unlimited number of stanzas (a series of shadormas).\n\nThe \"shadorma\" has been used by many modern writers and is a popular writing exercise in creative writing programs and workshops.\n"}
{"id": "485826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=485826", "title": "Sheela na gig", "text": "Sheela na gig\n\nSheela na gigs are figurative carvings of naked women displaying an exaggerated vulva. They are architectural grotesques found all over Europe on churches, castles, and other buildings. The highest concentrations can be found in Ireland, Great Britain, France and Spain, sometimes together with male figures. Ireland has the greatest number of surviving sheela na gig carvings; McMahon and Roberts cite 101 examples in Ireland and 45 examples in Britain. One of the best examples may be found in the Round Tower at Rattoo, in County Kerry, Ireland. There is a replica of the Round Tower sheela na gig in the County Museum in Tralee town. Another well-known example may be seen at Kilpeck in Herefordshire, England.\n\nThe carvings may have been used to ward off death and evil. Other grotesques, such as gargoyles and hunky punks, were frequently part of church decorations all over Europe. It is commonly said that their purpose was to keep evil spirits away (see apotropaic magic). They often are positioned over doors or windows, presumably to protect these openings.\n\nScholars disagree about the origins of the figures. James Jerman and Anthony Weir believe that the sheela na gigs were first carved in France and Spain in the 11th century; the motif eventually reached Britain and then Ireland in the 12th century. Jerman and Weir's work was a continuation of research begun by Jorgen Andersen, who wrote \"The Witch on the Wall\" (1977), the first serious book on sheela na gigs. Eamonn Kelly, Keeper of Irish Antiquities at the National Museum of Ireland in Dublin, draws attention to the distribution of sheela na gigs in Ireland to support Weir and Jerman's theory; almost all of the surviving \"in situ\" sheela na gigs are found in areas of Anglo-Norman conquest (12th century). The areas that remained \"native Irish\" have few sheela na gigs. Weir and Jerman also argue that their location on churches and the grotesque features of the figures, by medieval standards, suggests that they represented female lust as hideous and sinfully corrupting.\n\nAnother theory, espoused by Joanne McMahon and Jack Roberts, is that the carvings are remnants of a pre-Christian fertility or mother goddess religion. They note what they claim are differences in materials and styles of some sheela na gigs from their surrounding structures, and noting that some are turned on their side, to support the idea that they were incorporated from previous structures into early Christian buildings.\n\nIn addition, typical continental exhibitionist figures differ from those of Irish sheela na gigs. There is a scarcity of male figures in Ireland and the UK, while the continental carvings are more likely to involve male figures. Continental figures also are represented in more contortionist postures.\n\nThe name was first published in the \"Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy\" 1840–44, as a local name for a carving once present on a church gable wall in Rochestown, County Tipperary, Ireland; the name also was recorded in 1840 by John O'Donovan, an official of the Ordnance Survey of Ireland, referring to a figure on Kiltinan Castle, County Tipperary. Scholars disagree about the origin and meaning of the name in Ireland, as it is not directly translatable into Irish. Alternative spellings of \"Sheela\" may sometimes be encountered; they include \"Sheila\", \"Síle\" and \"Síla\". According to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", it is derived from Irish, \"Síle na gcíoch\", meaning \"Julia of the breasts\".\n\nThe name \"Seán-na-Gig\" was coined by Jack Roberts for the ithyphallic male counterpart of the Sheela. While rare in Ireland, it is much more common on the continent.\n\nJørgen Andersen writes that the name is an Irish phrase, originally either \"Sighle na gCíoch\", meaning \"the old hag of the breasts\", or \"Síle ina Giob\", meaning \"Sheila (from the Irish \"Síle,\" the Irish form of the Anglo-Norman name Cecile or Cecilia) on her hunkers\". Dinneen also gives \"Síle na gCíoċ\", stating it is \"a stone fetish representing a woman, supposed to give fertility, gnly [= \"generally\"] thought to have been introduced by the Normans.\" Other researchers have questioned these interpretations; few sheela na gigs are shown with breasts, and expressed doubt about the linguistic connection between \"ina Giob\" and \"na Gig\". The phrase \"sheela na gig\" was said to be a term for a hag or old woman.\n\nBarbara Freitag devotes a chapter to the etymology of the name in her book, \"Sheela-Na-Gigs: Unravelling an Enigma.\" She documents references earlier than 1840, including a Royal Navy ship, \"Sheela Na Gig,\" and an 18th-century dance called the Sheela na gig. Irish slip jig, first published as \"The Irish Pot Stick\" (c.1758), appears as \"Shilling a Gig\" in Brysson's \"A Curious Collection of Favourite Tunes\" (1791) and \"Sheela na Gigg\" in Hime's \"48 Original Irish Dances\" (c.1795). These are the oldest recorded references to the name, but do not apply to the architectural figures. The Royal Navy's records indicate the name refers to an \"Irish female sprite\". Freitag discovered that \"gig\" was a Northern English slang word for a woman's genitals. A similar word in modern Irish slang \"Gigh\" (pronounced ) also exists, further confusing the possible origin of the name.\n\nWeir and Jerman use the name sheela for the figure because it had entered popular usage; they also call figures of both sexes \"exhibitionist\". They cite Andersen's second chapter as a good discussion of the name. Andersen says there is no evidence that \"sheela na gig\" was ever a popular name for the figures when they were created. It arose during the mid-19th century \"where popular understanding of the characteristics of a sheela were vague and people were wary of its apparent rudeness\". An earlier reference to the dubious nature of the name is made by H.C. Lawlor in an article in \"Man\" Vol. 31, Jan 1931 (Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland), in which he writes, \"The term \"sheela-na-gig\" has no etymological meaning and is an absurd name.\" Andersen, Weir and Jerman, and Freitag all dismiss the name as being modern and somewhat arbitrary.\n\nThe oldest recorded name for one of the figures is \"The Idol,\" which relates to the Binstead figure on the Isle of Wight. This name was mentioned by R. Worsley in his \"The History of the Isle of Wight\" (1781) and noted also by J. Albin in \"A New, Correct, and Much-improved History of the Isle of Wight\" (1795) (Andersen page 11). The name \"The Idol\" also was applied to a now lost figure in Lusk, Ireland and was recorded as being in use around 1783.\n\nMuch of the disagreement among scholars about these figures focuses on determining exactly what they are meant to represent, and no theory explains all the figures.\n\nA popular hypothesis is that sheela na gigs represent a pagan goddess, but academics believe the situation was more complex, with multiple interpretations and roles for the female character as spiritual traditions changed over time. The goddess in question usually is identified as Celtic, the hag-like \"Cailleach\" figure of Irish and Scottish mythology. Margaret Murray proposed this, as did Anne Ross, who wrote in her essay, \"The Divine Hag of the Pagan Celts\", \"I would like to suggest that in their earliest iconographic form they do in fact portray the territorial or war-goddess in her hag-like aspect...\"\n\nMircea Eliade's \"The Encyclopedia of Religion\" (1993) draws parallels between the sheela na gig and the ancient Irish myth of the goddess who granted kingship. She would appear as a lustful hag, and most men would refuse her advances, except for one man who accepted. When he slept with her, she was transformed into a beautiful maiden who would confer royalty onto him and bless his reign. There are additional variants of this common Northern European motif (see \"Loathly lady\").\n\nAndersen devotes a chapter to this theory, entitled \"Pagan or Medieval.\" While suggesting possible pagan influences on Irish sheela na gigs, he firmly places them in a medieval context. He argues that pagan origins are less likely than influence from the continent during the medieval period: \"What can be said against it, is that it is less easily proved and can be less easily illustrated than the possible continental, French origin for the motif discussed in earlier chapters...\" (\"The Witch on the Wall,\" p. 95).\n\nWeir and Jerman explore the possible influence of the Baubo figurine on the motif, but they acknowledge that the link is tenuous. They write, \"It makes for very interesting speculation, but the amount of evidence is not large\".\n\nFreitag explores possible Celtic pagan origins, but finds little to suggest a link \"...in particular the notion of the divine hag being a portrayal of the Ur-Sheela has to be firmly dismissed as wayward conjecture.\" (\"Sheela na gigs: Unravelling an Enigma,\" page 41). Although scholars have used evidence to reject the theory, it is popularly held.\n\nThis hypothesis usually is combined with the \"goddess\" explanation for the figures discussed above. Barbara Freitag suggests that the figures were used in a fertility context and associates them with \"birthing stones\". There is folkloric evidence of at least some of the sheela na gigs being used in this manner, with the figures being loaned out to women in labour. Other figures have wedding traditions associated with them. According to Margaret Murray, the figure in Oxford at the church of St Michael at the North Gate has an associated tradition of being shown to brides on their wedding day. This theory does not cover all the figures: some are thin with their ribs showing and thin breasts, which do not signal fertility. Others are plump and are shown in a sexual context with a partner (as at Whittlesford). Theresa Oakley and Alex Woodcock recently discovered an exhibitionist couple at Devizes, who seem to represent fertility. The faces of some figures are striated, indicating scarring or tattoos. Weir notes that a close examination of the figures reveals features that do not fit a fertility function.\n\nWeir and Jerman suggested that the sheela na gigs served to warn against lust. They see the figures as a religious warning against sins of the flesh. Exhibitionist figures of all types—male, female, and bestial—are frequently found in the company of images of beasts devouring people and other hellish images. These images, they argue, were used as a means of religious instruction to a largely illiterate populace. As part of this interpretation, they explore a continental origin for the figures. Andersen first suggested this origin, and Weir and Jerman continued and expanded this line of inquiry. They argue that the motif migrated from the continent via the pilgrim routes to and from Santiago de Compostella. (Freitag argues against this.) Pilgrim sculptors took notes of what they had seen on the route and ended up carving their own interpretations of the motifs. Eventually, the exhibitionist motif was carried to Ireland and Britain. This theory seems to accommodate many of the religious figures but relates less well to some of the secular ones. Images carved on castles would not seem to be serving a religious purpose. The figure at Haddon Hall appears on a stable (although this may have been moved from elsewhere). The theory does not cover all the figures.\n\nAndersen and Weir and Jerman think the figures may also have been used as protection against evil. This would cover the use of the figures on structures such as castles. They served an apotropaic function, designed to ward off evil. In Ireland, some of the figures were called \"The Evil Eye Stones,\" which supported their theory. There is also some folkloric evidence of anasyrma being used by women lifting up their dresses to curse evil spirits. Andersen reproduces an 18th-century illustration by Charles Eisen from La Fontaine's \"Nouveaux Contes\" (1764) showing a demon being repulsed by the sight of a woman lifting her skirt to display her genitals. Weir and Jerman relate a story from \"The Irish Times\" (23 September 1977) in which a potentially violent incident involving several men was averted by a woman exposing her genitals to them. But, they also doubt if the story was true. Weir and Jerman go on to suggest that the apotropaic function seems to have been gradually ascribed to the figures over time. While this theory seems to fit most of the secular and some of the religious figures, it does not apply to all of them.\n\nThe rise of feminist scholarship has reinterpreted the concept of the Sheela-na-gig especially in terms of the image as evil or embodiment of sin. Feminists have adopted the image as an icon with feminist authors viewing the sexuality of the Sheela na gig in a more positive light, an empowering figure. Reverence for female sexuality and vulvas can be seen in the art of Judy Chicago's \"The Dinner Party\" and \"The Vagina Monologues\" by Eve Ensler. In \"Wide-open to Mirth and Wonder\", Luz Mar González-Arias argues that the creative re-imagining of this medieval female figure can \"encourage contemporary women to stop perceiving their own corporeality as a heavy, awkward and shameful burden of guilt\". Irish writer Molly Mullin's essay \"Representations of History, Irish Feminism, and the Politics of Difference\" makes the point that the image of the Sheela na gig has almost become emblematic of Irish feminism as a force for hope and change. Scholar Georgia Rhoades argues that for many contemporary feminists the gesture of the Sheela's unapologetic sexual display is \"a message about her body, its power and significance—a gesture of rebellion against misogyny, rather than an endorsement of it\".\n\nAs noted above, Ireland has the greatest number of known sheela na gigs. At one time, they were mistakenly thought to be a uniquely Irish practice, however, scholars realized that the sheela na gig motif could be found all over western and central Europe. Accurate numbers of figures are difficult to reach, as the interpretation of what is a sheela na gig will vary among scholars. For example, Freitag omits the Rochester figure from her list while Weir and Jerman include it. Concannon includes some worn figures that so far only she has identified as sheela na gigs. With renewed interest in the topic, scholars have recently identified previously unknown figures, so more could be discovered.\n\nThe following countries are known to have (or have had) churches with female exhibitionist figures on them:\n\nA significant number of the figures are found in Romanesque contexts, especially in France, northern Spain, Britain, and Norway. In Ireland figures commonly are found in areas of Norman influence.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of Religion\", in its article on yoni, notes the similarity between the positioning of many sheela na gigs above doorways or windows and the wooden female figures carved over the doorways of chiefs' houses (\"bai\") in the Palauan archipelago. Called \"dilukai\" (or \"dilugai\"), they are typically shown with legs splayed, revealing a large, black, triangular pubic area; the hands rest upon the thighs. The writers of the encyclopedia article say:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60197", "title": "The Castle of Crossed Destinies", "text": "The Castle of Crossed Destinies\n\nThe Castle of Crossed Destinies () is a 1973 novel by the Italian writer Italo Calvino. Its narrative details a meeting among travelers who are inexplicably unable to speak after traveling through a forest. The characters in the novel recount their tales via Tarot cards, which are reconstructed by the narrator. The novel is in two parts, each using a different style Tarot deck. The first part was published alone in 1969 as \"Tarocchi: Il mazzo visconteo di Bergamo e New York\" (Tarots: The Visconti Pack in Bergamo and New York). The second part, with the header \"The Tavern of Crossed Destinies\", features the Tarot of Marseilles.\n\nThe novel is an exploration of how meaning is created, whether that be written via words (by the author, via the book, since the characters in the book cannot speak to each other) or by images (the tarot cards – considered prophetic by some, and themselves open to many symbolic interpretations). It is, as often in Calvino's works, multi-layered, and several levels of interpretations and readings are possible, based on the author–narrator–character–reader relationship.\n\n"}
{"id": "4714316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4714316", "title": "The Hills Have Eyes Part II", "text": "The Hills Have Eyes Part II\n\nThe Hills Have Eyes Part II is a 1984 American horror film written and directed by Wes Craven. The film stars Tamara Stafford, Kevin Spirtas, John Bloom, Michael Berryman, Penny Johnson, Janus Blythe, John Laughlin, Willard E. Pugh, Peter Frechette, and Robert Houston. \"The Hills Have Eyes Part II\" is the sequel to the 1977 film. The film was produced by Barry Cahn, Jonathan Debin, and Peter Locke.\n\nThe film begins with a man narrating then opens with Bobby Carter and his psychiatrist discussing the events of the first film, which took place eight years ago. Bobby is still traumatized by the events, but he and Rachel, (formerly known as Ruby) who now owns a biker team, have also invented a super fuel that can power bikes. The team is due to race in the same desert where the original massacre took place and Bobby's psychiatrist convinces him to go, but he declines and Rachel takes his place. The team consisting of the blind Cass, her boyfriend Roy, Harry, Hulk, Foster, Jane and Sue meets up at a bus and sets off. Along the way, they pick up Beast from a dog pound. Previously owned by the Carters, he now belongs to Rachel.\n\nWhile going through the desert, they get lost and Harry suggests a shortcut through the bombing range. As they drive, the bus begins leaking fuel and they stop at an old mining ranch. As they explore the mine, Pluto, who apparently survived the earlier attack from Beast, attacks Rachel. She fights him off and he retreats, but no one believes her at first until Pluto returns and steals one of their bikes. Roy and Harry chase him down, but Harry falls behind, gets caught in a trap and is flattened by a massive rock. Roy catches Pluto, but is ambushed by a 7-foot cannibal called the Reaper, who knocks him unconscious. The Reaper is later revealed to be Papa Jupiter's older brother.\n\nMeanwhile, the rest of the group stays at the mine until nightfall. They begin to worry about Roy and Harry, but Rachel and Hulk depart to look for them while the others stay behind. The Reaper begins to stalk the remaining teens. As Hulk and Rachel try to escape by motorcycle, the Reaper shoots Hulk through the chest with a spear bolt, leaving Rachel to run away in fear. \n\nThe Reaper returns to the mine, where he pulls Foster under the bus and kills him. Jane finds Foster's body just before the Reaper catches her and crushes her in his arms. Sue returns to the camp, only for the Reaper to throw her through a window and slit her throat with a machete. Rachel runs into Pluto, who pins her to the ground, but Beast surprises him and chases him away. Rachel tries to follow Beast, but runs into a trap set by the Reaper, which catapults Hulk's corpse against her. Slammed backwards, she trips and fatally hits the back of her head on a rock.\n\nMeanwhile, Roy wakes up and runs into Pluto at the top of a cliff. Pluto gets ready to attack him, but Beast returns and knocks him off the cliff to his death. Cass runs from the Reaper and ends up in his mineshaft where he dumped the bodies, and comes across the corpses of all her friends. She throws a jar of acid at the Reaper's face and escapes up a rope with help from Roy. The Reaper follows them, but they trap him in a bus full of bike fuel, set it on fire and watch as it explodes. The Reaper escapes from the wreckage covered in flames and attempts to kill them one last time, but he stumbles into an open mineshaft, falling to his death after which Roy and Cass embrace. The film ends with Roy, Cass and Beast walking away from the mine at sunrise, into the vast desert as they follow the road home.\n\n\n\"The Hills Have Eyes Part II\" was shot cheaply in 1983. Production was ceased due to lack of money.\n\n\"The Hills Have Eyes Part II\" received unanimously negative reviews from critics. AllMovie called it \"atrocious\". Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 0% based on reviews from 5 critics and a rating of 2.5 out of 10. Variety staff wrote in their review: \"From then on, it’s dull, formula terror pic cliches, with one attractive teenager after another picked off by the surviving cannibals.\"\n\nIn the book \"The Official Splatter Movie Guide, Volumes: 1963-1992: Hundreds of the Goriest, Grossest, Most Outrageous Films Ever Made\" by John McCarty, he states \"Writer–director Wes Craven must have thought we all suffer from amnesia, too, because he fills the sequel with clips from the first film to help us remember what happened in it. Either that or, because he really didn't have anything new up his sleeve, he was just trying pad out the running time. The movie is so bad that it was shelved for two years, never released theatrically, then sold to video and pay TV to help recoup some of the costs.\"\n\nDVD Talk writes in its review: \"The story goes that Wes Craven quickly disowned \"The Hills Have Eyes Part 2\", hammering out a quick-and-dirty sequel because he desperately needed the cash. Remember, we're talking about the guy who cowrote the legendary killer-cellphone genre classic \"Pulse\" and directed the dreadful inner-city-inspirational-teacher flick \"Music of the Heart\" too; if he disowns a movie, as all over the place as his filmography is, it's gotta be painful. The really bizarre thing is that this was made in the wake of \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\", a movie that was shot for next-to-nothing but is overflowing with imagination and boasts a dazzlingly inventive visual eye. That well must have been tapped completely dry when cameras started to roll on \"The Hills Have Eyes Part 2\" however many months later. As disturbing as the original \"The Hills Have Eyes\" remains all these years later, the sequel doesn't deliver anything close to that.\"\n\n\"The Hills Have Eyes Part II\" was released in June 1984, in Italy. The film was released direct-to-video and pay television. \"The Hills Have Eyes Part II\" was first released on DVD on March 20, 2012. Redemption and Kino Lorber films released a remastered edition of the film on Blu-ray on March 30, 2012. The film was also released on VHS by Thorn EMI and on LaserDisc by Republic Pictures.\n\nThe Hills Have Eyes 2 is a 2007 American horror film, and the sequel to the 2006 film which was a remake of the 1977 horror film. The film follows several U.S. Army National Guardsmen as they fight for survival against the mutant people living in a military base in the New Mexico desert. \"The Hills Have Eyes 2\" was directed by German film director Martin Weisz and written by father and son team Wes and Jonathan Craven. A graphic novel titled \"\" was published by Fox Atomic Comics to accompany the release of the film; it was released July 3, 2007. The film stars Michael McMillian, Jacob Vargas, Flex Alexander, and Jessica Stroup.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19349705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19349705", "title": "The Protocols of the Elders of Zion", "text": "The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\n\nThe Protocols of the Elders of Zion () or The Protocols of the Meetings of the Learned Elders of Zion is an antisemitic fabricated text purporting to describe a Jewish plan for global domination. The hoax, which was shown to be plagiarized from several earlier sources, some not antisemitic in nature, was first published in Russia in 1903, translated into multiple languages, and disseminated internationally in the early part of the 20th century. According to the claims made by some of its publishers, the \"Protocols\" are the minutes of a late 19th-century meeting where Jewish leaders discussed their goal of global Jewish hegemony by subverting the morals of Gentiles, and by controlling the press and the world's economies.\n\nHenry Ford funded printing of 500,000 copies that were distributed throughout the United States in the 1920s. The Nazis sometimes used the \"Protocols\" as propaganda against Jews; it was assigned by some German teachers, as if factual, to be read by German schoolchildren after the Nazis came to power in 1933, despite having been exposed as fraudulent by \"The Times\" of London in 1921. It is still widely available today in numerous languages, in print and on the Internet, and continues to be presented by some proponents as a genuine document.\n\nThe \"Protocols\" is a fabricated document purporting to be factual. Textual evidence shows that it could not have been produced prior to 1901. It is notable that the title of Sergei Nilus's widely distributed edition contains the dates \"1902–1903\", and it is likely that the document was actually written at this time in Russia, despite Nilus' attempt to cover this up by inserting French-sounding words into his edition. Cesare G. De Michelis argues that it was manufactured in the months after a Russian Zionist congress in September 1902, and that it was originally a parody of Jewish idealism meant for internal circulation among antisemites until it was decided to clean it up and publish it as if it were real. Self-contradictions in various testimonies show that the individuals involved—including the text's initial publisher, Pavel Krushevan—deliberately obscured the origins of the text and lied about it in the decades afterwards.\n\nIf the placement of the forgery in 1902–1903 Russia is correct, then it was written at the beginning of the anti-Jewish pogroms in the Russian Empire, in which thousands of Jews died or fled the country. Many of the people whom De Michelis suspects of involvement in the forgery were directly responsible for inciting the pogroms.\n\nTowards the end of the 18th century, following the Partitions of Poland, the Russian Empire inherited the world's largest Jewish population. The Jews lived in \"shtetls\" in the West of the Empire, in the Pale of Settlement and until the 1840s, local Jewish affairs were organised through the \"qahal\", including for purposes of taxation and conscription into the Imperial Russian Army. Following the ascent of liberalism in Europe, the Russian ruling class became more hardline in its reactionary policies, upholding the banner of \"Orthodoxy, Autocracy, and Nationality\", whereby non-Orthodox and non-Russian subjects, including the Jews, were not always embraced. Jews who attempted to assimilate were regarded with suspicion as potential \"infiltrators\" supposedly trying to \"take over society\", while Jews who remained attached to traditional Jewish culture were resented as undesirable aliens.\nResentment towards Jews, for the aforementioned reasons, existed in Russian society, but the idea of a Protocols-esque international Jewish conspiracy for world domination was minted in the 1860s. Jacob Brafman, a Russian Jew from Minsk, had a falling out with agents of the local kahal – the semi-autonomous Jewish government – and consequently turned against Judaism. He subsequently converted to the Russian Orthodox Church and authored polemics against the Talmud and the kahal. Brafman claimed in his books \"The Local and Universal Jewish Brotherhoods\" (1868) and \"The Book of the Kahal\" (1869), published in Vilna, that the kahal continued to exist in secret and that it had as its principal aim undermining Christian entrepreneurs, taking over their property and ultimately seizing power. He also claimed that it was an international conspiratorial network, under the central control of the \"Alliance Israélite Universelle\", which was based in Paris and then under the leadership of Adolphe Crémieux, a prominent freemason. The Vilna Talmudist, Jacob Barit, attempted to refute Brafman's claim.\n\nThe impact of Brafman's work took on an international aspect, as it was translated into English, French, German and other languages. The image of the \"kahal\" as a secret international Jewish shadow government working as a state within a state was picked up by anti-Jewish publications in Russia and was taken seriously by some Russian officials such as P. A. Cherevin and Nikolay Pavlovich Ignatyev who in the 1880s urged governor-generals of provinces to seek out the supposed kahal. This was around the time of the \"Narodnaya Volya\" assassination of Tsar Alexander II of Russia and the subsequent pogroms. In France it was translated by Monsignor Ernest Jouin in 1925, who supported the Protocols. In 1928, Siegfried Passarge, a geographer active in the Third Reich, translated it into German.\n\nAside from Brafman, there were other early writings which posited a similar concept to the Protocols. This includes \"The Conquest of the World by the Jews\" (1878), published in Basel and authored by Osman Bey (born Frederick Millingen). Millingen was a British subject of Dutch-Jewish extraction (the grandson of James Millingen), but served as an officer in the Ottoman Army where he was born. He converted to Islam, but later became a Russian Orthodox Christian. Bey's work was followed up by Hippolytus Lutostansky's \"The Talmud and the Jews\" (1879) which claimed that Jews wanted to divide Russia among themselves. Incidentally, in a 1904 edition of \"The Talmud and the Jews,\" Hippolytus directly quoted verbatim the first, little-known 1903 edition of the \"Protocols\".\n\nSource material for the forgery consisted jointly of \"Dialogue aux enfers entre Machiavel et Montesquieu\" (\"Dialogue in Hell Between Machiavelli and Montesquieu\"), an 1864 political satire by Maurice Joly; and a chapter from \"Biarritz\", an 1868 novel by the antisemitic German novelist Hermann Goedsche, which had been translated into Russian in 1872.\n\nA major source for the \"Protocols\" was \"Der Judenstaat\" by Theodor Herzl, which was referred to as \"Zionist Protocols\" in its initial French and Russian editions. Paradoxically, early Russian editions of the \"Protocols\" assert that they did not come from a Zionist organization. The text, which nowhere advocates for Zionism, resembles a parody of Herzl's ideas.\n\n\"The Protocols\" is one of the best-known and most-discussed examples of literary forgery, with analysis and proof of its fraudulent origin going as far back as 1921. The forgery is an early example of \"conspiracy theory\" literature. Written mainly in the first person plural, the text includes generalizations, truisms, and platitudes on how to take over the world: take control of the media and the financial institutions, change the traditional social order, etc. It does not contain specifics.\n\nElements of the \"Protocols\" were plagiarized from Joly's fictional \"Dialogue in Hell\", a thinly veiled attack on the political ambitions of Napoleon III, who, represented by the non-Jewish character Machiavelli, plots to rule the world. Joly, a monarchist and legitimist, was imprisoned in France for 15 months as a direct result of his book's publication. Scholars have noted the irony that \"Dialogue in Hell\" was itself a plagiarism, at least in part, of a novel by Eugène Sue, \"Les Mystères du Peuple\" (1849–56).\n\nIdentifiable phrases from Joly constitute 4% of the first half of the first edition, and 12% of the second half; later editions, including most translations, have longer quotes from Joly.\n\n\"The Protocols\" 1–19 closely follow the order of Maurice Joly's \"Dialogues\" 1–17. For example:\n\nPhilip Graves brought this plagiarism to light in a series of articles in \"The Times\" in 1921, the first published evidence that the \"Protocols\" was not an authentic document.\n\n\"Goedsche was a postal clerk and a spy for the Prussian Secret Police. He had been forced to leave the postal work due to his part in forging evidence in the prosecution against the Democratic leader Benedict Waldeck in 1849.\" Following his dismissal, Goedsche began a career as a conservative columnist, and wrote literary fiction under the pen name Sir John Retcliffe. His 1868 novel \"Biarritz\" (\"To Sedan\") contains a chapter called \"The Jewish Cemetery in Prague and the Council of Representatives of the Twelve Tribes of Israel.\" In it, Goedsche (who was unaware that only two of the original twelve Biblical \"tribes\" remained) depicts a clandestine nocturnal meeting of members of a mysterious rabbinical cabal that is planning a diabolical \"Jewish conspiracy.\" At midnight, the Devil appears to contribute his opinions and insight. The chapter closely resembles a scene in Alexandre Dumas' \"Giuseppe Balsamo\" (1848), in which Joseph Balsamo a.k.a. Alessandro Cagliostro and company plot the Affair of the Diamond Necklace.\n\nIn 1872 a Russian translation of \"The Jewish Cemetery in Prague\" appeared in Saint Petersburg as a separate pamphlet of purported non-fiction. François Bournand, in his \"Les Juifs et nos Contemporains\" (1896), reproduced the soliloquy at the end of the chapter, in which the character Levit expresses as factual the wish that Jews be \"kings of the world in 100 years\" —crediting a \"Chief Rabbi John Readcliff.\" Perpetuation of the myth of the authenticity of Goedsche's story, in particular the \"Rabbi's speech\", facilitated later accounts of the equally mythical authenticity of the \"Protocols\". Like the \"Protocols\", many asserted that the fictional \"rabbi's speech\" had a ring of authenticity, regardless of its origin: \"This speech was published in our time, eighteen years ago,\" read an 1898 report in La Croix, \"and all the events occurring before our eyes were anticipated in it with truly frightening accuracy.\"\n\nFictional events in Joly's \"Dialogue aux enfers entre Machiavel et Montesquieu\", which appeared four years before \"Biarritz\", may well have been the inspiration for Goedsche's fictional midnight meeting, and details of the outcome of the supposed plot. Goedsche's chapter may have been an outright plagiarism of Joly, Dumas père, or both.\n\nThe \"Protocols\" purports to document the minutes of a late-19th-century meeting attended by world Jewish leaders, the \"Elders of Zion\", who are conspiring to take over the world. The forgery places in the mouths of the Jewish leaders a variety of plans, most of which derive from older antisemitic canards. For example, the \"Protocols\" includes plans to subvert the morals of the non-Jewish world, plans for Jewish bankers to control the world's economies, plans for Jewish control of the press, and – ultimately – plans for the destruction of civilization. The document consists of twenty-four \"protocols\", which have been analyzed by Steven Jacobs and Mark Weitzman, who documented several recurrent themes that appear repeatedly in the 24 protocols, as shown in the following table:\n\n\"The Protocols\" appeared in print in the Russian Empire as early as 1903, published as a series of articles in \"Znamya\", a Black Hundreds newspaper owned by Pavel Krushevan. It appeared again in 1905 as the final chapter (Chapter XII) of the second edition of \"Velikoe v malom i antikhrist\" (\"The Great in the Small & Antichrist\"), a book by Sergei Nilus. In 1906, it appeared in pamphlet form edited by Georgy Butmi de Katzman.\n\nThese first three (and subsequently more) Russian language imprints were published and circulated in the Russian Empire during the 1903–6 period as a tool for scapegoating Jews, blamed by the monarchists for the defeat in the Russo-Japanese War and the Revolution of 1905. Common to all three texts is the idea that Jews aim for world domination. Since \"The Protocols\" are presented as merely a document, the front matter and back matter are needed to explain its alleged origin. The diverse imprints, however, are mutually inconsistent. The general claim is that the document was stolen from a secret Jewish organization. Since the alleged original stolen manuscript does not exist, one is forced to restore a purported original edition. This has been done by the Italian scholar, Cesare G. De Michelis in 1998, in a work which was translated into English and published in 2004, where he treats his subject as Apocrypha.\n\nAs fiction in the genre of literature, the tract was further analyzed by Umberto Eco in his novel \"Foucault's Pendulum\" in 1988 (English translation in 1989), in 1994 in chapter 6, \"Fictional Protocols\", of his \"Six Walks in the Fictional Woods\" and in his 2010 novel \"The Prague Cemetery\".\n\nAs the Russian Revolution unfolded, causing White movement-affiliated Russians to flee to the West, this text was carried along and assumed a new purpose. Until then, \"The Protocols\" had remained obscure; it now became an instrument for blaming Jews for the Russian Revolution. It became a tool, a political weapon, used against the Bolsheviks who were depicted as overwhelmingly Jewish, allegedly executing the \"plan\" embodied in \"The Protocols\". The purpose was to discredit the October Revolution, prevent the West from recognizing the Soviet Union, and bring about the downfall of Vladimir Lenin's regime.\n\nAccording to Daniel Pipes,\nPipes notes that the \"Protocols\" emphasizes recurring themes of conspiratorial antisemitism: \"Jews always scheme\", \"Jews are everywhere\", \"Jews are behind every institution\", \"Jews obey a central authority, the shadowy 'Elders'\", and \"Jews are close to success.\"\n\n\"The Protocols\" is widely considered influential in the development of other conspiracy theories, and reappears repeatedly in contemporary conspiracy literature, such as Jim Marrs' \"Rule by Secrecy,\" which identifies the work as a Czarist forgery. Some recent editions proclaim that the \"Jews\" depicted in the Protocols are a cover identity for other conspirators such as the Illuminati, Freemasons, the Priory of Sion, or even, in the opinion of David Icke, \"extra-dimensional entities\".\n\nThe chapter \"In the Jewish Cemetery in Prague\" from Goedsche's \"Biarritz\", with its strong antisemitic theme containing the alleged rabbinical plot against the European civilization, was translated into Russian as a separate pamphlet in 1872. However, in 1921, Princess Catherine Radziwill gave a private lecture in New York in which she claimed that the Protocols were a forgery compiled in 1904–5 by Russian journalists Matvei Golovinski and Manasevich-Manuilov at the direction of Pyotr Rachkovsky, Chief of the Russian secret service in Paris.\n\nIn 1944, German writer Konrad Heiden identified Golovinski as an author of the \"Protocols\". Radziwill's account was supported by Russian historian Mikhail Lepekhine, who published his findings in November 1999 in the French newsweekly \"L'Express\". Lepekhine considers the \"Protocols\" a part of a scheme to persuade Tsar Nicholas II that the modernization of Russia was really a Jewish plot to control the world. Stephen Eric Bronner writes that groups opposed to progress, parliamentarianism, urbanization, and capitalism, and an active Jewish role in these modern institutions, were particularly drawn to the antisemitism of the document. Ukrainian scholar Vadim Skuratovsky offers extensive literary, historical and linguistic analysis of the original text of the \"Protocols\" and traces the influences of Fyodor Dostoyevsky's prose (in particular, \"The Grand Inquisitor\" and \"The Possessed\") on Golovinski's writings, including the \"Protocols\".\n\nGolovinski's role in the writing of the Protocols is disputed by Michael Hagemeister, Richard Levy and Cesare De Michelis, who each write that the account which involves him is historically unverifiable and to a large extent provably wrong.\n\nIn his book \"The Non-Existent Manuscript\", Italian scholar Cesare G. De Michelis studies early Russian publications of the \"Protocols\". The \"Protocols\" were first mentioned in the Russian press in April 1902, by the Saint Petersburg newspaper \"Novoye Vremya\" ( – \"The New Times\"). The article was written by famous conservative publicist as a part of his regular series \"Letters to Neighbors\" (\"Письма к ближним\") and was titled \"Plots against Humanity\". The author described his meeting with a lady (Yuliana Glinka, as it is known now) who, after telling him about her mystical revelations, implored him to get familiar with the documents later known as the \"Protocols\"; but after reading some excerpts, Menshikov became quite skeptical about their origin and did not publish them.\n\nThe \"Protocols\" were published at the earliest, in serialized form, from August 28 to September 7 (O.S.) 1903, in \"Znamya\", a Saint Petersburg daily newspaper, under Pavel Krushevan. Krushevan had initiated the Kishinev pogrom four months earlier.\n\nIn 1905, Sergei Nilus published the full text of the \"Protocols\" in \"Chapter XII\", the final chapter (pp 305–417), of the second edition (or third, according to some sources) of his book, \"Velikoe v malom i antikhrist\", which translates as \"The Great within the Small: The Coming of the Anti-Christ and the Rule of Satan on Earth\". He claimed it was the work of the First Zionist Congress, held in 1897 in Basel, Switzerland. When it was pointed out that the First Zionist Congress had been open to the public and was attended by many non-Jews, Nilus changed his story, saying the Protocols were the work of the 1902–3 meetings of the Elders, but contradicting his own prior statement that he had received his copy in 1901:\nA subsequent secret investigation ordered by Pyotr Stolypin, the newly appointed chairman of the Council of Ministers, came to the conclusion that the \"Protocols\" first appeared in Paris in antisemitic circles around 1897–1898. When Nicholas II learned of the results of this investigation, he requested, \"The Protocols should be confiscated, a good cause cannot be defended by dirty means.\" Despite the order, or because of the \"good cause\", numerous reprints proliferated.\n\nIn the United States, \"The Protocols\" are to be understood in the context of the First Red Scare (1917–20). The text was purportedly brought to the United States by a Russian army officer in 1917; it was translated into English by Natalie de Bogory (personal assistant of Harris A. Houghton, an officer of the Department of War) in June 1918, and Russian expatriate Boris Brasol soon circulated it in American government circles, specifically diplomatic and military, in typescript form, a copy of which is archived by the Hoover Institute. It also appeared in 1919 in the \"Public Ledger\" as a pair of serialized newspaper articles. But all references to \"Jews\" were replaced with references to \"Bolsheviki\" as an exposé by the journalist and subsequently highly respected Columbia University School of Journalism dean Carl W. Ackerman. \n\nIn 1923, there appeared an anonymously edited pamphlet by the Britons Publishing Society, a successor to The Britons, an entity created and headed by Henry Hamilton Beamish. This imprint was allegedly a translation by Victor E. Marsden, who died in October 1920.\n\nMost versions substantially involve \"protocols\", or minutes of a speech given in secret involving Jews who are organized as Elders, or Sages, of Zion, and underlies 24 protocols that are supposedly followed by the Jewish people. \"The Protocols\" has been proven to be a literary forgery and hoax as well as a clear case of plagiarism.\n\nOn October 27 and 28, 1919, the Philadelphia \"Public Ledger\" published excerpts of an English language translation as the \"Red Bible,\" deleting all references to the purported Jewish authorship and re-casting the document as a Bolshevik manifesto. The author of the articles was the paper's correspondent at the time, Carl W. Ackerman, who later became the head of the journalism department at Columbia University. On May 8, 1920, an article in \"The Times\" followed German translation and appealed for an inquiry into what it called an \"uncanny note of prophecy\". In the leader (editorial) titled \"The Jewish Peril, a Disturbing Pamphlet: Call for Inquiry\", Wickham Steed wrote about \"The Protocols\":\n\nSteed retracted his endorsement of \"The Protocols\" after they were exposed as a forgery.\n\nIn the US, Henry Ford sponsored the printing of 500,000 copies, and, from 1920 to 1922, published a series of antisemitic articles titled \"The International Jew: The World's Foremost Problem\", in \"The Dearborn Independent\", a newspaper he owned. The articles were later collected into multi-volume book series of the same name. In 1921, Ford cited evidence of a Jewish threat: \"The only statement I care to make about the \"Protocols\" is that they fit in with what is going on. They are 16 years old, and they have fitted the world situation up to this time.\" Robert A. Rosenbaum wrote that \"In 1927, bowing to legal and economic pressure, Ford issued a retraction and apology—while disclaiming personal responsibility—for the anti-Semitic articles and closed the \"Dearborn Independent\" in 1927. He was also an admirer of Nazi Germany.\n\nIn 1934, an anonymous editor expanded the compilation with \"Text and Commentary\" (pp 136–41). The production of this uncredited compilation was a 300-page book, an inauthentic expanded edition of the twelfth chapter of Nilus's 1905 book on the coming of the anti-Christ. It consists of substantial liftings of excerpts of articles from Ford's antisemitic periodical \"The Dearborn Independent\". This 1934 text circulates most widely in the English-speaking world, as well as on the internet. The \"Text and Commentary\" concludes with a comment on Chaim Weizmann's October 6, 1920, remark at a banquet: \"A beneficent protection which God has instituted in the life of the Jew is that He has dispersed him all over the world\". Marsden, who was dead by then, is credited with the following assertion:\n\nIn 1920–1921, the history of the concepts found in the \"Protocols\" was traced back to the works of Goedsche and Jacques Crétineau-Joly by Lucien Wolf (an English Jewish journalist), and published in London in August 1921. But a dramatic exposé occurred in the series of articles in \"The Times\" by its Constantinople reporter, Philip Graves, who discovered the plagiarism from the work of Maurice Joly.\nAccording to writer Peter Grose, Allen Dulles, who was in Constantinople developing relationships in post-Ottoman political structures, discovered \"the source\" of the documentation and ultimately provided him to \"The Times\". Grose writes that \"The Times\" extended a loan to the source, a Russian émigré who refused to be identified, with the understanding the loan would not be repaid. Colin Holmes, a lecturer in economic history at Sheffield University, identified the émigré as Michael Raslovleff, a self-identified antisemite, who gave the information to Graves so as not to \"give a weapon of any kind to the Jews, whose friend I have never been.\"\n\nIn the first article of Graves' series, titled \"A Literary Forgery\", the editors of \"The Times\" wrote, \"our Constantinople Correspondent presents for the first time conclusive proof that the document is in the main a clumsy plagiarism. He has forwarded us a copy of the French book from which the plagiarism is made.\" In the same year, an entire book documenting the hoax was published in the United States by Herman Bernstein. Despite this widespread and extensive debunking, the \"Protocols\" continued to be regarded as important factual evidence by antisemites. Dulles, a successful lawyer and career diplomat, attempted to persuade the US State Department to publicly denounce the forgery, but without success.\n\nA translation made by an Arab Christian appeared in Cairo in 1927 or 1928, this time as a book. The first translation by an Arab Muslim was also published in Cairo, but only in 1951.\n\nThe selling of the \"Protocols\" (edited by German antisemite Theodor Fritsch) by the National Front during a political manifestation in the Casino of Berne on June 13, 1933, led to the Berne Trial in the \"Amtsgericht\" (district court) of Berne, the capital of Switzerland, on October 29, 1934. The plaintiffs (the Swiss Jewish Association and the Jewish Community of Berne) were represented by Hans Matti and Georges Brunschvig, helped by Emil Raas. Working on behalf of the defense was German antisemitic propagandist Ulrich Fleischhauer. On May 19, 1935, two defendants (Theodore Fischer and Silvio Schnell) were convicted of violating a Bernese statute prohibiting the distribution of \"immoral, obscene or brutalizing\" texts while three other defendants were acquitted. The court declared the \"Protocols\" to be forgeries, plagiarisms, and obscene literature. Judge Walter Meyer, a Christian who had not heard of the \"Protocols\" earlier, said in conclusion,\nVladimir Burtsev, a Russian émigré, anti-Bolshevik and anti-Fascist who exposed numerous Okhrana agents provocateurs in the early 1900s, served as a witness at the Berne Trial. In 1938 in Paris he published a book, \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion: A Proved Forgery\", based on his testimony.\n\nOn November 1, 1937, the defendants appealed the verdict to the \"Obergericht\" (Cantonal Supreme Court) of Berne. A panel of three judges acquitted them, holding that the \"Protocols\", while false, did not violate the statute at issue because they were \"political publications\" and not \"immoral (obscene) publications (Schundliteratur)\" in the strict sense of the law. The presiding judge's opinion stated, though, that the forgery of the \"Protocols\" was not questionable and expressed regret that the law did not provide adequate protection for Jews from this sort of literature. The court refused to impose the fees of defense of the acquitted defendants to the plaintiffs, and the acquitted Theodor Fischer had to pay 100 Fr. to the total state costs of the trial (Fr. 28'000) that were eventually paid by the Canton of Berne. This decision gave grounds for later allegations that the appeal court \"confirmed authenticity of the Protocols\" which is contrary to the facts. A view favorable to the pro-Nazi defendants is reported in an appendix to Leslie Fry's \"Waters Flowing Eastward\". A more scholarly work on the trial is in a 139-page monograph by Urs Lüthi.\n\nA similar trial in Switzerland took place at Basel. The Swiss Frontists Alfred Zander and Eduard Rüegsegger distributed the \"Protocols\" (edited by the German Gottfried zur Beek) in Switzerland. Jules Dreyfus-Brodsky and Marcus Cohen sued them for insult to Jewish honor. At the same time, chief rabbi Marcus Ehrenpreis of Stockholm (who also witnessed at the Berne Trial) sued Alfred Zander who contended that Ehrenpreis himself had said that the \"Protocols\" were authentic (referring to the foreword of the edition of the \"Protocols\" by the German antisemite Theodor Fritsch). On June 5, 1936 these proceedings ended with a settlement.\n\nAccording to historian Norman Cohn, the assassins of German Jewish politician Walter Rathenau (1867–1922) were convinced that Rathenau was a literal \"Elder of Zion\".\n\nIt seems likely Hitler first became aware of the \"Protocols\" after hearing about it from ethnic German white émigrés, such as Alfred Rosenberg and Max Erwin von Scheubner-Richter. Hitler refers to the \"Protocols\" in \"Mein Kampf\":\nThe Protocols also became a part of the Nazi propaganda effort to justify persecution of the Jews. In \"The Holocaust: The Destruction of European Jewry 1933–1945\", Nora Levin states that \"Hitler used the Protocols as a manual in his war to exterminate the Jews\":\nHitler endorsed the Protocols in his speeches from August 1921 on, and it was studied in German classrooms after the Nazis came to power. \"Distillations of the text appeared in German classrooms, indoctrinated the Hitler Youth, and invaded the USSR along with German soldiers.\" Nazi Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels proclaimed: \"The Zionist Protocols are as up-to-date today as they were the day they were first published.\"\n\nIn contrast to Hitler, Nazi leader Erich von dem Bach-Zelewsky admitted:\n\nRichard S. Levy criticizes the claim that the Protocols had a large effect on Hitler's thinking, writing that it is based mostly on suspect testimony and lacks hard evidence.\n\nPublication of the Protocols was stopped in Germany in 1939 for unknown reasons. An edition that was ready for printing was blocked by censorship laws.\n\nHaving fled Ukraine in 1918–19, Piotr Shabelsky-Bork brought the Protocols to Ludwig Muller Von Hausen who then published them in German. Under the pseudonym Gottfried Zur Beek he produced the first and \"by far the most important\" German translation. It appeared in January 1920 as a part of a larger antisemitic tract dated 1919. After \"The Times\" discussed the book respectfully in May 1920 it became a bestseller. \"The Hohenzollern family helped defray the publication costs, and Kaiser Wilhelm II had portions of the book read out aloud to dinner guests\". Alfred Rosenberg's 1923 edition \"gave a forgery a huge boost\".\n\nFascist politician Giovanni Preziosi published the first Italian edition of the \"Protocols\" in 1921. The book however had little impact until the mid-1930s. A new 1937 edition had a much higher impact, and three further editions in the following months sold 60,000 copies total. The fifth edition had an introduction by Julius Evola, which argued around the issue of forgery, stating: \"The problem of the authenticity of this document is secondary and has to be replaced by the much more serious and essential problem of its truthfulness\".\n\nThe \"Protocols\" continue to be widely available around the world, particularly on the Internet, as well as in print in Japan, the Middle East, Asia, and South America.\n\nGovernments or political leaders in most parts of the world have not referred to the \"Protocols\" since World War II. The exception to this is the Middle East, where a large number of Arab and Muslim regimes and leaders have endorsed them as authentic, including endorsements from Presidents Gamal Abdel Nasser and Anwar Sadat of Egypt, the elder President Arif of Iraq, King Faisal of Saudi Arabia, and Colonel Muammar al-Gaddafi of Libya.\n\nThe 1988 charter of Hamas, a Palestinian Islamist group, states that \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" embodies the plan of the Zionists. Recent endorsements in the 21st century have been made by the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem, Sheikh Ekrima Sa'id Sabri, the education ministry of Saudi Arabia, member of the Greek Parliament Ilias Kasidiaris, and Young Earth creationist, Kent Hovind.\n\n\"Ash-Shatat\" (Arabic: الشتات \"The Diaspora\") is a 29-part Syrian television series produced in 2003 by a private Syrian film company and was based in part on the \"Protocols.\" Syrian national television declined to air the program. \"Ash-Shatat\" was shown on Lebanon's Al-Manar, before being dropped. The series was shown in Iran in 2004, and in Jordan during October 2005 on Al-Mamnou.\n\n\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "38357478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38357478", "title": "Tomorrowland (film)", "text": "Tomorrowland (film)\n\nTomorrowland (also known as Project T in some regions and subtitled A World Beyond in some other regions) is a 2015 American science-fiction mystery adventure film directed and co-written by Brad Bird. Bird co-wrote the film's screenplay with Damon Lindelof, from an original story treatment by Bird, Lindelof and Jeff Jensen. The film stars George Clooney, Hugh Laurie, Britt Robertson, Raffey Cassidy, Tim McGraw, Kathryn Hahn, and Keegan-Michael Key. In the film, a disillusioned genius inventor (Clooney) and a teenage science enthusiast (Robertson) embark to an ambiguous alternate dimension known as \"Tomorrowland\", where their actions directly affect their own world.\n\nWalt Disney Pictures originally announced the film in June 2011 under the working title \"1952\", and later retitled it to \"Tomorrowland\", after the futuristic themed land found at Disney theme parks. In drafting their story, Bird and Lindelof took inspiration from the progressive cultural movements of the Space Age, as well as Walt Disney's optimistic philosophy of the future, notably his conceptual vision for the planned community known as EPCOT. Principal photography began in August 2013, with scenes shot at multiple locales in five countries.\n\n\"Tomorrowland\" was released in conventional and IMAX formats on May 22, 2015, and was the first theatrical film to be released in Dolby Vision and Dolby Cinema. Upon its release, the film received mixed reviews from critics; earning praise for its original premise, acting, musical score, action, visuals, and themes, but criticism in regards to the screenplay's uneven writing and tone. The film grossed $209 million worldwide against a total production and marketing cost of $330 million, losing Disney $120–140 million.\n\nFrank Walker addresses an unseen audience about the future. Frank, a young inventor, attended the 1964 New York World’s Fair, to sell his prototype jetpack. It is rejected by judge David Nix on the basis that it doesn’t work. Frank is approached by a young girl, Athena, who hands him a lapel pin with a “T” embossed on it, telling him to follow her onto “It's a Small World”. Frank is transported to Tomorrowland, a futuristic cityscape, where advanced robots fix his jetpack, allowing him to fly and join the secretive world.\n\nFrank passes the narration to the optimistic teenager Casey Newton. In the present, Casey repeatedly sabotages the planned demolition of a NASA launch site in Florida. Her father, Eddie, is a NASA engineer, but faces redundancy. Casey is eventually caught and arrested. At the police station, she finds a strange pin in her belongings. Upon personal contact, the pin shows her a vision of Tomorrowland, til its battery runs out. \n\nWith help from her younger brother Nate, Casey finds a Houston memorabilia store related to the pin. The owners, Hugo and Ursula, attack her when she is unable to divulge where she got the pin from. Athena, who gave Casey the pin, bursts in and defeats the owners, actually Audio-Animatronics, who self-destruct and destroy the shop. Casey and Athena steal a car, Athena revealing she is an animatronic, purposed to find and recruit people who fit the ideals of Tomorrowland. Athena drops Casey outside an adult Frank’s house in Pittsfield, New York.\n\nThe reclusive, cynical Frank declines Casey’s request to take her to Tomorrowland, having been banished from it years ago. Inside Frank’s house, Casey finds a probability counter marking the end of the world, Frank warning her that the future is doomed, but she disagrees, lowering the counter’s probability. Animatronic assassins appear to kill Casey, but she and Frank escape. Frank resents Athena for lying to him about her true nature. He reluctantly agrees to help them get to Tomorrowland.\n\nUsing a teleportation device, the trio travel to the top of the Eiffel Tower. Frank explains that Gustave Eiffel, Jules Verne, Nikola Tesla, and Thomas Edison co-founded Plus Ultra, a secret society of futurists, creating Tomorrowland in another dimension, free to make scientific breakthroughs without obstruction. The trio use an antique rocket, the \"Spectacle\", hidden beneath the tower, to travel to Tomorrowland.\n\nThere, they find Tomorrowland in a state of decay. David Nix, now Tomorrowland’s governor, greets them. They travel to a tachyon machine, invented by Frank, which accurately predicted the worldwide catastrophe. Casey refuses to accept the world will end, causing the future to temporarily alter. While Frank attempts to convince Nix to listen, he refuses, arresting the intruders.\n\nCasey realises the tachyon machine is telling humanity that the world will end, creating a self-fulfilling prophecy. They confront Nix, who admits he tried to prevent the future by projecting such images to humanity as a warning. Instead, they embraced the apocalypse in fiction, refusing to act to make a better future for their world. Frank, Casey, and Athena attempt to use a bomb to destroy the machine, leading to a fight with Nix. The bomb is accidentally thrown through a portal to an uninhabited island on Earth, the explosion pinning Nix’s leg. Athena sees a vision of the future where Frank is shot by Nix, and she jumps in the way of his attack, mortally wounding her. Making peace with Frank, Athena activates her self-destruct sequence, destroying the machine, but kills Nix too.\n\nIn the present, Frank and Casey lead Tomorrowland, recruit Eddie and Nate, and create a new group of recruitment animatronics like Athena, who they are addressing at the beginning of the film. Given pins, the animatronic children set out to recruit new dreamers and thinkers for Tomorrowland.\n\n\nOnscreen, Key's character introduces himself as Hugo Gernsback, a tribute to the influence of the man renowned as one of the \"Fathers of Science Fiction\" and the namesake of the Hugo Awards.\n\nIn 2010, Damon Lindelof began discussions with Walt Disney Studios about producing a modern science-fiction Disney film, with Tomorrowland as a basis. The project was greenlit by Walt Disney Pictures' president of production, Sean Bailey in June 2011 with Lindelof signed on to write and produce a film with the working title of \"1952\". Lindelof asked Jeff Jensen — who had previously published material on Lindelof's \"Lost\" television series — if he was interested in contributing to story elements. Jensen agreed and began to research the history of the Walt Disney Company, particularly Walt Disney's fascination with futurism, scientific innovation and utopia, as well as his involvement with the 1964 New York World's Fair and Disney's unrealized concept for EPCOT. In May 2012, Brad Bird was hired as director. Bird's story ideas and themes were influenced by the fading of cultural optimism that once defined society in the 1950s, '60s, and early '70s, stating that, \"When Damon and I were first talking about the project, we were wondering why people's once-bright notions about the future gradually seemed to disappear\".\n\nWhile keeping information about the plot secret, when asked in November 2012 whether the project would be \"\", Bird denied the rumor, but confirmed that \"Tomorrowland\" would be a science-fiction film, with Lindelof adding that the film would not center on extraterrestrials. Later that month, George Clooney entered negotiations to star in the film. In February 2013, Hugh Laurie joined the film. In July 2013, Britt Robertson was cast.\n\nOn January 23, 2013, nearly a week before the title change, Bird tweeted a picture related to the project. The image showed a frayed cardboard box labeled \"1952\", supposedly uncovered from the Walt Disney Imagineering developmental unit, and containing items like archival photographs of Walt Disney, Technicolor film, envelopes, a vinyl record, space technology literature, a 1928 copy of an \"Amazing Stories\" magazine (which introduced Philip Francis Nowlan's Buck Rogers character), and an unidentified metal object. On August 10, 2013, Bird and Lindelof gave a presentation at the D23 Expo in Anaheim, California, where they opened the \"1952\" box and revealed many of its contents. Later that day a pavilion was unveiled on the D23 Expo show floor which presented the items for close inspection by guests. There was also an accompanying iPhone app which took viewers through the exhibit much like one would experience at a museum. Michael Giacchino was hired to compose the film music.\n\nOriginally, the film included overt references to Walt Disney's involvement with \"Plus Ultra\", the fictional organization founded by Gustave Eiffel, Jules Verne, Nikola Tesla, and Thomas Edison — including the idea that Disneyland's Tomorrowland was intended to be a cover-up for the real one developed by the group — however, the scenes and dialogue were omitted from the final cut of the film. Pixar Animation Studios created an animated short film, narrated by Maurice LaMarche, that explained the backstory of \"Plus Ultra\", which was planned to be incorporated into an excised scene where a young Frank Walker is transported beneath the \"It's a Small World\" attraction, and through an informative series of displays, reminiscent of Disney dark rides.\n\nPrincipal photography commenced in Enderby, British Columbia on August 19, 2013, and also filmed in Vancouver (including the H. R. MacMillan Space Centre) and Surrey, ending on January 15, 2014. In October 2013, Kathryn Hahn was cast as a character named Ursula. Also in October, it was announced that part of the filming would take place in the City of Arts and Sciences in Valencia. In November 2013, scenes depicting the Newtons' hometown were shot at New Smyrna Beach, and the Carousel of Progress attraction at Walt Disney World in Florida. On February 5, 2014, additional filming took place at the It's a Small World attraction at Disneyland in California. The film's production designers incorporated the designs of Space Mountain and Spaceship Earth as architectural features of the Tomorrowland cityscape. Per a suggestion by Bird during production, the Walt Disney Pictures opening production logo features the Tomorrowland skyline instead of the studio's conventional fantasy castle. Industrial Light & Magic created the visual effects for \"Tomorrowland.\"\n\nDuring post-production, a number of scenes featuring actress Judy Greer as Jenny Newton, Casey's (Robertson) late mother were cut in order to improve the film's runtime. Greer's role was reduced to minor cameo, while actor Lochlyn Munro, who portrayed Casey's live-in uncle Anthony, had his scenes removed completely.\n\nWalt Disney Studios Motion Pictures released a teaser trailer for \"Tomorrowland\" on October 9, 2014. Beginning in mid-April, a sneak peek of the film was presented at Disneyland and Epcot in the Tomorrowland and Imagination Pavilion theaters, respectively. \"Tomorrowland\" held its world premiere at the Disneyland Resort in Anaheim, California on May 9, 2015. The film was released on May 22, 2015 in theaters and IMAX. \"Tomorrowland\" was the first film to be released in Dolby Vision format in Dolby Cinema in North America.\n\nDespite owning the trademark to the word \"Tomorrowland\" in the United States since 1970, Disney released the film in the United Kingdom as \"Tomorrowland: A World Beyond\", and as \"Project T\" in several European markets, including the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg, because ID&T had previously registered the trademark in 2005, for their electronic musical festival of the same name. In compliance to Disney's ownership of the trademark in the United States, ID&T renamed the American version of their music festival as TomorrowWorld.\n\n\"Tomorrowland\" was released by Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment on Blu-ray, DVD, and digital download on October 13, 2015. The Blu-ray and digital releases include behind-the-scenes featurettes, the \"Plus-Ultra\" animated short film, and deleted scenes.\n\nUpon its first week of release on home media in the U.S., the film debuted at number 3 at the Nielsen VideoScan First Alert chart, which tracks overall disc sales, and number 4 at the Blu-ray Disc sales chart with 47% of unit sales coming from Blu-ray.\n\n\"Tomorrowland\" grossed $93.4 million in North America and $115.7 million in other territories for a worldwide total of $209.2 million, against a budget of $190 million.\n\n\"The Hollywood Reporter\" estimated that the film cost $330 million to produce and market, and noted that the financial losses by Disney finished anywhere between $120 and $140 million. According to them, \"Tomorrowland\" was the third original tent-pole film of 2015 to underperform, following \"Jupiter Ascending\" and \"Seventh Son\". Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures distribution chief, Dave Hollis, commented on the film's debut performance, saying, \"\"Tomorrowland\" is an original movie and that's more of a challenge in this marketplace. We feel it's incredibly important for us as a company and as an industry to keep telling original stories.\"\n\n\"Tomorrowland\" opened in the U.S. and Canada on Friday, May 22, 2015 across 3,970 theaters, earning $9.7 million on its opening day, which was on par with \"Pitch Perfect 2\" (which was in its second week). The film's Friday gross included a $725,000 during its early Thursday night showings from a limited run of 701 theaters. On its first three-day weekend, it earned $33 million, coming in at first place after a close race with \"Pitch Perfect 2\" which grossed $30.8 million. During the four-day Memorial Day weekend, it earned $42.7 million — the lowest opening for a big-budget tentpole since Disney's \"\", which opened to $37.8 million in 2010. Considering the film's $190 million budget ($280–330 million, including marketing costs), many media outlets considered the film's opening in the U.S. and Canada a box office disappointment.\n\nOutside North America, it earned $32.1 million in its opening weekend from 65 countries, finishing in first place among newly released film and in third place overall behind \"\" and \"\". The film's top highest openings occurred in China ($14.1 million), Russia and the CIS ($4.3 million), the UK, Ireland and Malta ($3.2 million) Mexico ($2.8 million), France ($2.5 million) and Japan ($2.1 million). In total earnings, its top three countries are China ($18.8 million), Russia and the UK ($7.6 million respectively).\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a rating of 50%, based on 264 reviews, with an average rating of 5.9/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"Ambitious and visually stunning, \"Tomorrowland\" is unfortunately weighted down by uneven storytelling.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 60 out of 100, based on 47 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". In CinemaScore polls conducted during the opening weekend, cinema audiences gave the film an average grade of \"B\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nPeter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" gave the film two and a half stars out of four, saying \"Brad Bird's \"Tomorrowland\", a noble failure about trying to succeed, is written and directed with such open-hearted optimism that you cheer it on even as it stumbles.\" Stephanie Merry of \"The Washington Post\" gave the film two out of four stars, saying \"Maybe the ultimate goal of \"Tomorrowland\" remains obscure because once you know where the story is headed, you realize it's a familiar tale. The movie can conjure up futuristic images, but the story is nothing we haven't seen before.\" Moira MacDonald of \"The Seattle Times\" gave the film two and a half stars out of four, saying \"Though it's made with great energy and inventiveness, there's something ultimately muddy about \"Tomorrowland\"; it's as if director Brad Bird got so caught up in the sets and effects and whooshing editing that the story somehow slipped away.\"\n\nColin Covert of the \"Star Tribune\" gave the film two out of four stars, saying \"A well-oiled machine of visuals, and yet a wobbling rattletrap of storytelling, the sci-fi fantasy \"Tomorrowland\" is an unwieldy clunker driven into the ditch at full speed.\" James Berardinelli of \"ReelViews\" gave the film two and a half stars out of four, saying \"For a while, it doesn't matter that the plot meanders. The story seems like a jigsaw puzzle inviting us to solve it. That's the fun part. However, when the resolution is presented, it underwhelms.\"\n\nA. O. Scott of \"The New York Times\" gave the film a negative review, saying \"It's important to note that \"Tomorrowland\" is not disappointing in the usual way. It's not another glib, phoned-in piece of franchise mediocrity, but rather a work of evident passion and conviction. What it isn't is in any way convincing or enchanting.\" Lou Lumenick of the \"New York Post\" gave the film two out of four stars, saying \"The film never adds up to the sum of its parts, effectively a two-hour trailer for a movie I'd still be interested in seeing.\" Steven Rea of \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" gave the film two and a half stars out of four, saying \"Unlikely to be remembered in decades to come - or even in months to come, once the next teenage dystopian fantasy inserts itself into movie houses.\"\n\nTy Burr of \"The Boston Globe\" gave the film two and a half stars out of four, saying \"Rapturous on a scene-by-scene basis and nearly incoherent when taken as a whole, the movie is idealistic and deranged, inspirational and very, very conflicted.\" Stephen Whitty of \"The Star-Ledger\" (Newark) gave the film one and a half stars out of four, saying \"Strip \"Tomorrowland\" down to its essentials, and you get an ending out of \"I'd like to teach the world to sing\" and a moral which boils down to: Just be positive, OK? So OK. I'm positive \"Tomorrowland\" was a disappointment.\"\n\nDavid Edelstein of \"New York\" magazine gave the film a positive review, stating that \"\"Tomorrowland\" is the most enchanting reactionary cultural diatribe ever made. It's so smart, so winsome, so utterly rejuvenating that you'll have to wait until your eyes have dried and your buzz has worn off before you can begin to argue with it.\" Inkoo Kang of \"TheWrap\" also wrote a positive review, saying \"\"Tomorrowland\" is a globe-trotting, time-traveling caper whose giddy visual whimsies and exuberant cartoon violence are undermined by a coy mystery that stretches as long as the line for \"Space Mountain\" on a hot summer day.\" Brian Truitt of \"USA Today\" gave the film three out of four stars, saying \"A spectacular ride for most of it, and while you're a little let down at the end, you kind of want to jump back on and do it all over again.\"\n\nLinda Barnard of the \"Toronto Star\" gave the film three out of four stars, saying \"Brad Bird presents a gorgeously wrought, hopeful future vision in \"Tomorrowland\", infusing the family film with enough entertaining action and retro-themed whiz bang to forgive an awkward opening and third-act weakness.\" Joe Neumaier of the \"New York Daily News\" gave the film three out of four stars, saying \"\"Tomorrowland\" wears its big movie heart on its sleeve, which is to its advantage.\" A.A. Dowd of \"The A.V. Club\" gave the film a B-, saying \"Bird stages the PG mayhem with his usual grasp of dimension and space, his gift for action that's timed like physical comedy. He keeps the whole thing moving, even when it begins to feel bogged down by preachiness and sci-fi exposition.\"\n\nBrian Skutle of \"Sonic Cinema\" gave the film a B–, saying \"What's so surprising about the film isn't how simple the story is, but how lacking of energy the whole thing is. Gone is the excitement and passion that drove \"The Incredibles\" and \"Ratatouille\", the high-wire suspense of \"\" and the nostalgic feeling of \"The Iron Giant\". Bird feels less like the author of this film and more like a hired hand to give Disney a big-budget tentpole based on studio notes.\" Forrest Wickman, of \"Slate Magazine\", said the film's \"politics might be a little incoherent, or naïve. It is a kids' movie, after all.\" Amy Nicholson of \"LA Weekly\" gave the film a B+, saying \"Bird has made a film that every child should see. And if his $190 million dream flops, he'll be asking the same question as his movie: When did it become uncool to care?\"\n\nIn October 2015, Bird commented on some of the film's criticisms:\n\nThe musical score for \"Tomorrowland\" was composed by Michael Giacchino. A soundtrack album was released digitally on May 19, 2015 followed by a physical release on June 2, 2015. Songs not included on the album, but featured in the film include \"There's a Great Big Beautiful Tomorrow\" and \"It's a Small World (After All)\", both written by Richard M. Sherman and Robert B. Sherman, and \"I Got Mine\" by The Black Keys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "981460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981460", "title": "Western corn rootworm", "text": "Western corn rootworm\n\nThe Western corn rootworm, \"Diabrotica virgifera virgifera\", is one of the most devastating corn rootworm species in North America, especially in the midwestern corn-growing areas such as Iowa. A related species, the Northern corn rootworm, \"D. barberi\" co-inhabits in much of the range, and is fairly similar in biology.\n\nTwo other subspecies of \"D. virgifera\" are described, including the Mexican corn rootworm (\"Diabrotica virgifera zeae\"), a significant pest in its own right, attacking corn in that country.\n\nCorn rootworm larvae can destroy significant percentages of corn if left untreated. In the United States, current estimates show that of corn (out of 80 million grown) are infested with corn rootworm. The United States Department of Agriculture estimates that corn rootworms cause $1 billion in lost revenue each year, including $800 million in yield loss and $200 million in cost of treatment for corn growers.\n\nThere are many similarities in the life cycles of the northern and western corn rootworm. Both overwinter in the egg stage in the soil. Eggs, which are deposited in the soil during the summer, are American football-shaped, white, and less than long. Larvae hatch in late May or early June and begin to feed on corn roots. Newly hatched larvae are small, less than long, white worms. Corn rootworms go through three larval instars, pupate in the soil and emerge as adults in July and August. One generation emerges each year. Larvae have brown heads and a brown marking on the top of the last abdominal segment, giving them a double-headed appearance. Larvae have three pairs of legs, but these are not usually visible without magnification. After feeding for several weeks, the larvae dig a cell in the soil and molt into the pupal stage. The pupal stage is white and has the basic shape of the adult. Adult rootworms are about long. Western corn rootworms are yellowish with a black stripe on each wing cover. Northern corn rootworm beetles are solid in color and vary from light tan to pale green.\n\nTiming of egg hatch varies from year to year due to temperature differences and location. Males begin to emerge before females. Emergence often continues for a month or more. In years with hot, dry summers, numbers of western corn rootworm beetles may decline rapidly after mid-August, although in summers with less extreme conditions they may be found up until the first frost.\n\nFemales mate soon after emergence. Western corn rootworm females need to feed for about two weeks before they can lay eggs. Temperature and food quality influence the pre-oviposition period. Females typically lay eggs in the top of soil, although they may be laid more than deep, particularly if the soil surface is dry. Western corn rootworm females are more likely to lay some of their eggs below the depth than northern corn rootworm females.\n\nRootworm larvae can complete development only on corn and a few other species of grasses. Rootworm larvae reared on other grasses (specifically, yellow foxtail) emerged as adults later and had smaller head capsule size as adults compared to larvae reared on corn. Adults feed primarily on corn silk, pollen and kernels on exposed ear tips, although they will feed on leaves and pollen of other plants. Adults begin emerging before corn reproductive tissues are present, adults may feed on leaf tissue, scraping away the green surface tissue and leaving a window-pane appearance. However, adults quickly shift to preferred green silks and pollen as they become available. Northern corn rootworm adults feed on reproductive tissues of the corn plant, but rarely feed on corn leaves. \"Northern\" adults are more likely than \"western\" adults to abandon corn and seek pollen or flowers of other plants as corn matures.\n\nMost of the damage to corn is caused by larval feeding. Hatchlings locate roots and begin feeding on the fine root hairs, burrowing into root tips. As larvae grow, they feed on and tunnel into primary roots. When rootworms are abundant, larval feeding and deterioration of injured roots by root rot pathogens can result in roots being pruned to the stalk base. Severe root injury interferes with the roots' ability to transport water and nutrients, reduces growth and results in reduced grain production. Severe root injury may result in lodging of corn plants, making harvest more difficult. Silk feeding by adults can result in pruning at the ear tip, commonly called silk clipping. In field corn, beetle populations are occasionally high enough to cause severe silk clipping during pollen shed, which may interfere with pollination.\n\nThe Western corn rootworm rapidly expanded its range in North America during the second part of the 20th century. It is now present from the southwestern region of the US Corn Belt to the east coast. It was introduced at the end of the 20th century into Europe, where it was first observed near Belgrade, Serbia in 1992. The Serbian outbreak spread north and south to include Greece to Poland and east from Italy to Ukraine. In addition to this large continuous area in Central and southeastern Europe, discontinuous outbreaks have been detected in Europe. The first was discovered near Venice, Italy, in 1998, in northwestern Italy (Piedmont) and Switzerland (canton Ticino) in 2000, northeastern Italy in 2002 (near Pordenone) and 2003 (near Udine), northern Italy (Trentino), Eastern France (Alsace), Switzerland, Belgium, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands in 2003 and the Parisian region, France in 2002, 2004 and 2005. Outbreaks detected in north Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands and the Parisian region did not persist.\nThe distribution of the European corn rootworm resulted from several introductions from North America. At least three successive introductions gave rise to outbreaks detected in Serbia in 1992, the Italian Piedmont in 2000, and Ile-de-France in 2002. The European outbreaks observed in Alsace in 2003 and Ile-de-France in 2005 came from two additional introductions from North America, bringing to five the number of transatlantic introductions. The exact North American origin of the European introductions has not yet been found, but the north of the US appears to be the most likely.\nSmall remote outbreaks in southern Germany and north-eastern Italy most likely originated from long-distance dispersal events from Central and southeastern Europe. The large European outbreak is thus likely expanding by stratified dispersal, involving both continuous diffusion and discontinuous long-distance dispersal. This latter mode of dispersal may accelerate expansion in Europe.\n\nMultiple management practices aim to control corn rootworms. These practices include corn variety selection, early planting, insecticides, crop rotation and transgenic corn varieties.\n\nNo commercial, non-transgenic resistant corn varieties are available. Several hybrid corn traits reduce damage by increasing stalk strength and root mass size. These characteristics allow a plant to better tolerate rootworm feeding, with reduced likelihood of lodging.\n\nEarly planted fields that have completed pollen shed are less attractive and therefore have less egg laying activity. Early fields have relatively larger root systems when rootworm feeding starts. This makes them somewhat more tolerant. Practices that promote strong root systems and a generally vigorous crop make corn more tolerant to rootworm feeding and damage.\n\nSoil-applied insecticides effectively control corn rootworms. Insecticide may be warranted in areas that have a history of moderate to high damage. The number of adults present during the previous growing season is the best guide for selecting fields to be treated. However, in some areas of high insecticide use in central Nebraska, populations of corn rootworm beetles have become resistant to certain insecticides. Aldrin resistance was probably introduced independently, at least twice, from North America into Europe. Organophosphates, such as methyl-parathion, may provide effective control of both larval and adult \"populations \" in Central and southeastern Europe and in northwest Italy.\n\nCrop rotation is a consistent and economical means of controlling rootworms the season following an outbreak in corn-growing areas where rootworm beetles primarily lay eggs in corn. As a way to reduce rootworm densities, it is more effective than insecticides. Corn rootworm larvae must feed on corn roots to develop and mature properly. If they hatch in a field without corn, they starve because they cannot move more than 10 to in search of food. However, two rootworm biotypes survive rotation. The \"soybean\" variant was first discovered in central Illinois in the late 1980s and spread throughout Illinois, Indiana, southern Wisconsin and eastern Iowa. Instead of laying eggs into a corn field, the females of the soybean variant mate and then fly into a soybean field to lay their eggs, allowing the larvae to hatch in a field likely to rotate back to corn the following year. In the 1980s northern corn rootworm began to be a problem by beating the corn rotation practice with extended diapause eggs. The eggs remained in the soil for two years or more before hatching, thereby avoiding the soybean year. This adaptation has been observed in areas of northern Iowa, Minnesota and South Dakota.\n\nCompanion or second crop planting can dramatically increase rootworm populations. Corn with pumpkins or corn following pumpkins are examples of planting patterns that exacerbate rootworm feeding pressure.\n\nAmong natural enemies - Argiope bruennichi, Theridion impressum, Coccinella sp., Pseudophomus rufipes.\n\nPlanting rootworm-resistant transgenic corn, is another strategy for minimizing damage. BT corn is effective at reducing root damage and is safer and often cheaper than insecticide. The transgenic traits, isolated from the common soil bacterium \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" strain (often referred to as Bt), produce the insect control protein.\n\nBt was first discovered in 1901 by Japanese biologist S. Ishiwatari as the source of disease that was killing large populations of silkworms. Bt was first used as an insecticide in 1920 and spray formulations containing either Bt bacteria or Bt proteins came into use in the 1970s for crop protection, including organic farming operations. Bt insecticides saw expanded use and development in the 1980s as an alternative to synthetic insecticides. Beginning in the 1980s, the genes responsible for making \"Bt\" proteins were isolated and transferred into corn plants. Bt was commercially approved in transgenic corn seed in the mid-1990s. Compared to spray formulations, transgenic plants with the Bt protein provide much more effective insect protection throughout the season. Other Bt proteins have been used to genetically modify potatoes, cotton and other types of commercial corn. The two most common brands of transgenic Bt corn are Genuity and Herculex. Genuity Smartstax combines Monsanto's VT Triple Pro, Roundup Ready 2, and Acceleron Seed Treatment System technologies, as well as Dow Chemical's Herculex Xtra and Liberty Link technologies. Acceleron, Herculex Xtra, and VT Triple Pro include traits for protection from insect damage.\n\nBt must be ingested to kill the insect. A susceptible larva eats the protein, which then binds to receptors in the larval gut. Binding initiates a cascade of effects that ultimately leads to death. Bt proteins are highly selective on certain categories and species of insects, eliminating insecticide use and its harmful effects to non-target organisms.\n\nRecently, however, strains of rootworms have been discovered in several Midwest US states that exhibit Bt resistance.<ref name=\"DOI10.1371/journal.pone.0022629\"></ref> According to Monsanto, the “\"YieldGard® VT Triple\" and \"Genuity® VT Triple PRO™\" corn products” are affected. In 2009, four strains in Iowa were found to have field-evolved resistance to Bt corn.\n\nBy 2014 Syngenta Agrisure RW-rootworm strains had been detected in Iowa as well as glyphosate. Agrisure RW-based products entered the market in 2007. However, government officials, academics and companies lack consensus on how to define the resistance phenomenon. The affected fields constituted 0.2% of transgenic US corn acres. Further the affected areas had not been rotated with other crops.\n\nAs of 2014 Herculex and Agrisure Duracade had not produced resistant outbreaks.\n\nIn Austria, an innovative protection method has been developed, using the \"mating disruption\" method for the first time ever in fields. The according product is called CornProtect. The female bugs distribute pheromones that attract males. With that new method, such pheromones are put on specially treated mineral carriers and are slowly released over the full flying period of the bugs. Mating is significantly reduced, because males become disoriented and less interested in copulating. Reproduction is drastically reduced The application is done with conventional field sprayers which makes it economically very viable. \n\n"}
{"id": "46574074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46574074", "title": "White genocide conspiracy theory", "text": "White genocide conspiracy theory\n\nThe white genocide conspiracy theory is a neo-Nazi, alt-right, white nationalist/supremacist conspiracy theory, which contends that any one of mass immigration, racial integration, miscegenation, low fertility rates, abortion, governmental land-confiscation from whites, organised violence or eliminationism are being promoted in either predominantly white countries, or supposedly white-founded countries, to deliberately replace, remove, or liquidate white populations, dismantle white collective power, turn the countries minority-white, and hence cause white people to become extinct through forced assimilation or violent genocide.\n\nThe conspiracy theory was developed by the neo-Nazi David Lane in about 1995. The phrase \"anti-racist is a code word for anti-white\", coined by high-profile white nationalist Robert Whitaker, is commonly associated with the topic of white genocide. It has appeared on billboards in the United States near Birmingham, Alabama and Harrison, Arkansas. The conspiracy theory had already been purported in Nazi Germany by a pamphlet written for the \"Research Department for the Jewish question\" of Walter Frank's \"Reich Institute\" with the title \"Are the White Nations Dying? The Future of the White and the Colored Nations in the Light of Biological Statistics\".\n\nThe conspiracy theory has been expressed in South Africa and France. It has also been commonly used both interchangeably with, and as a broader and more extreme version of Renaud Camus's 2012 The Great Replacement conspiracy theory, which focuses on the white Christian population of France.\n\nIn August 2018, US President Donald Trump was accused of endorsing the conspiracy theory in a foreign policy tweet instructing Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to investigate South African \"land and farm seizures and expropriations and the large scale killing of farmers\", claiming that the \"South African government is now seizing land from white farmers\". The often critical narrative derived from farm attacks, and land reform, is an established subset theme of the broader conspiracy theory, portrayed in media as a form of gateway or proxy issue to \"white genocide\" within the wider context of the Western world. The topic in relation to South Africa and Zimbabwe is also simply used interchangeably with the subject, as well as being used by white nationalists as a parabolic concept, or cautionary tale, to justify policies to retain or increase white majorities in nation-states, or otherwise maintain their vision of white supremacy.\n\nThe explicit phrasing of \"white genocide\" first appeared sporadically in the neo-Nazi publications \"White Power\" and \"WAR\" in the 1970s and 1980s, where it primarily referred to contraception and abortion. The conspiracy theory was developed by the neo-Nazi David Lane in his \"White Genocide Manifesto\" (, origin of the later use of the term), where he made the claim that the government policies of many Western countries had the intent of destroying white European culture and making white people an \"extinct species\". Lane—a founding member of the organization The Order—criticized miscegenation, abortion, homosexuality, the legal repercussions against those who \"resist genocide\", and the \"Zionist Occupation Government\" that he said controls the United States and the other majority-white countries and which encourages \"white genocide\".\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century, the conspiracy theory spread beyond its explicit neo-Nazi and white nationalist origins, to be embraced by the newer alt-right movement.\n\nAnders Behring Breivik's entitled manifesto makes frequent mention of an alleged ongoing genocide against white Europeans.\n\nDiscussion threads on the white nationalist Internet forum Stormfront often center around the theme of white people being subjected to genocidal policies by their governments. The concept has also been popularized by the alt-right movement in the United States. The 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia referenced the conspiracy theory as tiki torch-wielding protestors yelled \"You will not replace us!\" and \"Jews will not replace us!\"\n\nThe notion of racial purity, homogeneity or \"racial hygiene\" is an underlying theme of the white genocide discourse and it has been used by people with neo-Nazi and white supremacist backgrounds.\n\nWhile individual iterations of the conspiracy theory vary on who is assigned blame, Jewish influence, people who hate whites, and liberal political forces are commonly cited by white supremacists as being the main factors leading to a white genocide. This view is held by prominent figures such as David Duke, who cites Jews and \"liberal political ideals\" as the main causes. White nationalist Robert Whitaker, who coined the phrase \"anti-racist is a code word for anti-white\" in a widely circulated 2006 piece seeking to popularize the white genocide concept online, used \"anti-White\" to describe those he believed are responsible for the genocide of white people, and continued to view it as a Jewish conspiracy while emphasizing that others also supported the \"anti-White\" cause.\n\nHowever, the view that Jews are responsible for a white genocide is contested by other white supremacist figures, such as Jared Taylor.\n\nThe conspiracy theory has continuously recurred among the far-right in a variety of forms, all centered around a core theme of white populations being replaced, removed, or simply killed. People who have been described as endorsing or serving instrumental roles in spreading at least one iteration of the conspiracy theory include:\n\n\n\n\n\nStarting with the 2016 US presidential election, there have been allegations that aspects of the conspiracy theory have been adopted as dog-whistling by some mainstream conservative political figures.\n\nIowa congressman Steve King has used rhetoric that Mother Jones and Paste Magazine writers described as invoking the conspiracy theory, saying that \"We can’t restore our civilization with somebody else's babies\" and using the phrase \"cultural suicide\". Vox and The New Republic have described him as an adherent of the theory that immigration and other forms of population shift represent a slow genocide against white populations.\n\nIn 2016, Donald Trump garnered controversy after retweeting Twitter user @WhiteGenocideTM, and @EustaceFash, whose Twitter header image at the time also included the term \"white genocide\". A 2016 analysis of his Twitter feed during the Republican presidential primaries showed that 62% of those that he chose to retweet in an average week followed multiple accounts which discussed the conspiracy theory, and 21% followed prominent white nationalists online. \n\nOn August 23, 2018, US President Donald Trump brought the concept of \"white genocide\" in relation to South Africa significantly further into mainstream media discourse, after he publicly instructed Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to investigate South African farm attacks, an instruction which was broadly portrayed in media as the Trump and his administration advocating for an unfounded conspiracy theory. Trump had apparently gotten his information from a Tucker Carlson segment on Fox News. \"New York\" magazine had claimed Trump was attempting to \"change the conversation – to one about 'white genocide' in South Africa\"; \"Esquire\" reported that the \"President of the United States is now openly promoting an international racist conspiracy theory as the official foreign policy of the United States\". According to the SPLC, Trump had \"tweeted out his intention to put the full force of the U.S. State Department behind a white nationalist conspiracy theory\".\n\nCausing \"angry reaction in South Africa\", many politicians and public figures responded critically to Trump. These included multiple members of the South African Parliament and RSA Deputy President David Mabuza. Julius Malema MP responded to the US President directly, declaring \"there is no white genocide in South Africa\", that US President's intervention into their ongoing land reform issues \"only made them more determined ... to expropriate our land without compensation\", and that there is a black genocide in the U.S. Jeremy Cronin MP stated that the South African government needed to \"send a signal to the courts‚ to Trump‚ to Fox News Agency\" over the issue, whereas Lindiwe Sisulu claimed that his foreign policy tweet was \"regrettable\" and \"based on false information\".\n\nIn the U.S., former US Ambassador to South Africa Patrick Gaspard, and American media personalities Chris Cuomo and Al Sharpton spoke out against the US President on the issue. Gaspard labelled Trump's actions as \"dangerous and poisoned\", while Cuomo stated that Trump was bogusly claiming \"white farmers\" were \"being hunted down and killed and having their land stolen\". Trump had previously caused controversy around the topic as a presidential candidate in 2016, when he republished content from a social media account named \"WhiteGenocideTM\".\n\nFigures on the right of French politics, such as Renaud Camus, have claimed that a 'white genocide' or \"Great Replacement\" is occurring in France. Camus's definition, which focuses largely on the white Christian population in France, has been used in media interchangably with white genocide, and described as a narrower, less extreme and more nationally focused version of the broader conspiracy theory. Despite his focus on the specific demographics of France, Camus also believes all Western countries are facing a form of \"ethnic and civilizational substitution\".\n\nFar-right and alt-right figures, such as singer Steve Hofmeyr, have claimed that a \"white genocide\" is taking place in South Africa. The manifesto of far-right terrorist Anders Behring Breivik entitled \"2083: A European Declaration of Independence\" devotes an entire section to an alleged \"genocide\" against Afrikaners. It also contains several other references to alleged persecution of whites in South Africa and the attacks on white farmers. Mike Cernovich, an American alt-right commentator, has previously stated that \"white genocide in South Africa is real.\" The survivalist group the Suidlanders has claimed credit for publicizing the issue internationally.\n\nGregory Stanton of Genocide Watch has condemned the misuse of his groups's reports of the threat of polarization in South Africa to further the idea of \"white genocide\".\n\nAfrica Check, a fact-checking organisation, has rejected these claims as false: \"In fact, whites are less likely to be murdered than any other race group.\" Africa Check reported that while whites account for nearly 9% of the South African population they represent just 1.8% of murder victims. Lizette Lancaster from the Institute for Security Studies has said that \"Whites are far less likely to be murdered than their black or coloured counterparts.\"\n\nCritics of the conspiracy theory include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2534645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2534645", "title": "Wolfchild", "text": "Wolfchild\n\nWolfchild is a platform game originally released for the Amiga and the Atari ST by Core Design in 1992. It was later released for the SNES, Mega Drive/Genesis, Sega CD, Sega Master System, and Sega Game Gear.\n\nThe plot revolves around biotechnology researcher Kal Morrow and his son Saul. When the former is kidnapped by the evil Chimera organization, Saul uses one of his father's inventions to turn himself into a wolf-human hybrid (similar to a werewolf) that may be capable of defeating Chimera.\n\n\"Wolfchild\" was designed by Simon Phipps, also responsible for the earlier \"Switchblade 2\", a rather similar game. The action is viewed from the side and scrolls in eight directions. The player must guide Saul through five levels, negotiating platforms and shooting various monsters, the result of Chimera experiments. Initially, the player character is Saul in his normal, human form. Only when enough energy has been collected does he turn into a wolf-human, giving him much better attack techniques.\n\nGary Whitta of \"ACE\" magazine gave the Amiga version a score of 905 (out of a possible 1000), praising its animation, speed and responsiveness, and generally deeming it executed better than \"Switchblade 2\". \"Mega\" said that the Sega CD version was overpriced and did not make use of the hardware. \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" gave the SNES version a 5 out of 10, commenting \"It's got great graphics, and some of the sound effects are dynamite, but \"Wolfchild\" loses big in the game play department. ... the overall game is dull and rather unappealing.\" They gave the Genesis version a 5.25 out of 10, saying it was identical to the earlier Sega CD version aside from the CD music, and that the game was overlong with repetitive gameplay which quickly becomes dull.\n"}
{"id": "42578737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42578737", "title": "Writer's home", "text": "Writer's home\n\nWriters' homes (sometimes writer's, author's or literary houses) are locations where writers lived. Frequently, these homes are preserved as historic house museums and literary tourism destinations, called writer's home museums, especially when the homes are those of famous literary figures. Frequently these buildings are preserved to communicate to visitors more about the author than their work and its historical context. These exhibits are a form of biographical criticism. Visitors of the sites who are participating in literary tourism, are often fans of the authors, and these fans find deep emotional and physical connections to the authors through their visits.\n\nSites include a range of activities common to cultural heritage sites, such as living history, museum exhibits, guided tours and poetry readings. \"New York Times\" commentator Anne Trubek counted 73 such houses in the United States.\n\nThe tradition of preserving houses or sites important to famous authors has a long history: in the 14th century Petrarch's birthplace was preserved, despite Petrach barely spending time there as a child. In the late nineteenth and early twentieth century France, photojournalism which represented authors homes created an increased public interest in writers' private lives, making their homes destinations.\n\nThe public popular imagination around these literary homes is a central theme of the satirical novel \"An Arsonist's Guide to Writers' Homes in New England\".\n\n\n\n"}
