{"id": "3349250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3349250", "title": "Adrián Suar", "text": "Adrián Suar\n\nAdrián Kirzner Schwartz, better known as Adrián Suar (; born March 25, 1968) is an American-born Argentine actor, media producer and businessman, better known as the programme director of Canal 13.\n\nHe was born in New York City to Jewish parents, who moved to Argentina in 1970.\n\nHe started working in the TV series \"Pelito\" at the early age of 13. He then worked in other TV shows such as \"La Banda del Golden Rocket\", \"Poliladron\", \"Por el Nombre de Dios\", \"22, El Loco\", and \"Sin código\", and for films such as \"Comodines\", \"Cohen vs Rossi\", \"Apariencias\", \"El hijo de la novia\", \"El día que me amen\" and \"18-J\".\n\nTogether with Fernando Blanco, he created in 1994 Pol-Ka, one of the three most important TV producing companies in Argentina, with shows that have been exported to other countries.\n\nAmong the series and films produced by Pol-Ka are \"Por el Nombre de Dios,\" \"Comodines,\" \"El Hijo de la Novia\" and \"Luna de Avellaneda.\"\n\nHe married, and later divorced Argentine actress Araceli González, with whom he had a child, Tomás.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33977766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33977766", "title": "Advocacy evaluation", "text": "Advocacy evaluation\n\nAdvocacy evaluation, also called public policy advocacy design, monitoring, and evaluation, evaluates the progress or outcomes of advocacy, such as changes in public policy. This is different from policy analysis, which generally looks at the results of the policy, or mainstream program evaluation, which assesses whether programs or direct services have been successful. Advocacy strives to influence a program or policy either directly or indirectly; therefore, the influence is being evaluated, rather than the results of that influence. Advocacy evaluators seek to understand the extent to which advocacy efforts have contributed to the advancement of a goal or policy. They do this in order to learn what works, what does not, and what works better in order to achieve advocacy goals and improve future efforts.\n\nIn order to evaluate something, one must know the goals of the program/activity, in this case - advocacy efforts. Policy advocacy evaluation focuses on the contribution towards achieving policy, and not on the results of that policy. Policy advocacy evaluators look at these dependent variables (many of which interrelate significantly with movement in the policy cycle):\n\nIntermediate Goal Examples:\nUltimate Goals\n\n\nDirect Advocacy \n(Directly trying to influence policy makers):\nIndirect Advocacy \n(Indirectly influencing policymakers by getting their constituents to advocate):\n\n\nAdvocacy evaluation:\nContribution Analysis:\n\n\nNote – some of the following evaluations should be seen as forms of \"Proto\" Advocacy Evaluation, done prior to, or without regard for, current best practices in this field. Many simultaneously conduct policy analysis and advocacy evaluation. Most are, at the least, useful examples for anyone wishing to conduct Advocacy Evaluation.\n"}
{"id": "1143974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1143974", "title": "Aerial firefighting", "text": "Aerial firefighting\n\nAerial firefighting is the use of aircraft and other aerial resources to combat wildfires. The types of aircraft used include fixed-wing aircraft and helicopters. Smokejumpers and rappellers are also classified as aerial firefighters, delivered to the fire by parachute from a variety of fixed-wing aircraft, or rappelling from helicopters. Chemicals used to fight fires may include water, water enhancers such as foams and gels, and specially formulated fire retardants such as Phos-Chek.\n\nA wide variety of terminology has been used in the popular media for the aircraft (and methods) used in aerial firefighting. The terms airtanker or air tanker generally refer to fixed-wing aircraft based in the United States; \"airtanker\" is used in official documentation. The term \"waterbomber\" is used in some Canadian government documents for the same class of vehicles, though it sometimes has a connotation of amphibians.\n\nAir attack is an industry term used for the actual application of aerial resources, both fixed-wing and rotorcraft, on a fire. Within the industry, though, \"air attack\" may also refer to the supervisor in the air (usually in a fixed-wing aircraft) who supervises the process of attacking the wildfire from the air, including fixed-wing airtankers, helicopters, and any other aviation resources assigned to the fire. The Air Tactical Group Supervisor (ATGS), often called \"air attack,\" is usually flying at an altitude above other resources assigned to the fire, often in a fixed-wing plane but occasionally (depending on assigned resources or the availability of qualified personnel) in a helicopter.\n\nDepending on the size, location, and assessed potential of the wildfire, the \"air attack\" or ATGS person may be charged with initial attack (the first response of firefighting assets on fire suppression), or with extended attack, the ongoing response to and management of a major wildfire requiring additional resources including engines, ground crews, and other aviation personnel and aircraft needed to control the fire and establish control lines or firelines ahead of the wildfire.\n\nA wide variety of helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft are used for aerial firefighting. In 2003, it was reported that \"The U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management own, lease, or contract for nearly 1,000 aircraft each fire season, with annual expenditures in excess of US$250 million in recent years\".\n\nHelicopters may be fitted with tanks (helitankers) or they may carry buckets. Some helitankers, such as the Erickson AirCrane, are also outfitted with a front-mounted foam cannon. Buckets are usually filled by submerging or dipping them in lakes, rivers, reservoirs, or portable tanks. The most popular of the buckets is the flexible Bambi Bucket. Tanks can be filled on the ground (by water tenders or truck-mounted systems) or water can be siphoned from lakes, rivers, reservoirs, or a portable tank through a hanging snorkel. Popular firefighting helicopters include variants of the Bell 204, Bell 205, Bell 212, Boeing Vertol 107, Boeing Vertol 234 and the Sikorsky S-64 Aircrane helitanker, which features a snorkel for filling from a natural or man-made water source while in hover. Currently the world's largest helicopter, the Mil Mi-26, uses a Bambi bucket.\n\nAirtankers or water bombers are fixed-wing aircraft fitted with tanks that can be filled on the ground at an air tanker base or, in the case of flying boats and amphibious aircraft, by skimming water from lakes, reservoirs, or large rivers.\n\nVarious aircraft have been used over the years for firefighting. In 1947, the United States Air Force and United States Forest Service experimented with military aircraft dropping water-filled bombs. The bombs were unsuccessful, and the use of internal water tanks was adopted instead. Though World War II- and Korean War-era bombers were for a long time the mainstay of the aerial firefighting fleet, newer purpose-built tankers have since come online. The smallest are the Single Engine Air Tankers (SEATs). These are agricultural sprayers that generally drop about of water or retardant. Examples include the Air Tractor AT-802, which can deliver around of water or fire retardant solution in each drop, and the Soviet Antonov An-2 biplane. Both of these aircraft can be fitted with floats that scoop water from the surface of a body of water. Similar in configuration to the World War II–era Consolidated PBY Catalina, the Canadair CL-215 and its derivative the CL-415 are designed and built specifically for firefighting. The Croatian Air Force uses six CL-415s as well as six AT 802s for firefighting purposes.\n\nMedium-sized modified aircraft include the Grumman S-2 Tracker (retrofitted with turboprop engines as the S-2T) as used by the California Department of Forestry & Fire Protection, as well as the Conair Firecat version developed and used by Conair Group Inc. of Canada, while the Douglas DC-4, the Douglas DC-7, the Lockheed C-130 Hercules, the Lockheed P-2 Neptune, and the Lockheed P-3 Orion – and its commercial equivalent, the L-188 Electra – have been used as air tankers. Conair also converted a number of Convair 580 and Fokker F27 Friendship turboprop airliners to air tankers.\n\nThe largest aerial firefighter ever used is a Boeing 747 aerial firefighter, known as the Global Supertanker, that can carry fed by a pressurized drop system. The Supertanker was deployed operationally for the first time in 2009, fighting a fire in Spain. The tanker made its first American operation on August 31, 2009 at the Oak Glen Fire. It has since been replaced by a Boeing 747-400. Another wide body jetliner that is currently being used as an air tanker is the modified McDonnell Douglas DC-10 operated by the 10 Tanker Air Carrier company as the DC-10 Air Tanker. It can carry up to of fire fighting retardant.\n\nThe Russian Ministry of Emergency Situations operates convertible-to-cargo Ilyushin Il-76 airtankers that have been operating with tanking systems, and several Beriev Be-200 jet powered amphibians. The Be-200 can carry a maximum payload of about of water, making \"scoops\" in suitable stretches of water in 14 seconds.\n\nBombardier's Dash 8 Q Series aircraft are the basis of new, next-generation air tankers. Cascade Aerospace has converted two pre-owned Q400s to act as part-time water bomber and part-time transport aircraft for France's Sécurité Civile, while Neptune Aviation is converting a pre-owned Q300 as a prototype to augment its Lockheed P-2 Neptune aircraft. The Sécurité Civile also operates twelve Canadair CL-415 and nine Conair Turbo Firecat aircraft. Neptune Aviation also currently operates converted British Aerospace 146 jetliners as air tankers. The BAe 146 can carry up to 3,000 gallons of fire fighting retardant. Air Spray USA Ltd. of Chico, California has also converted the BAe 146 jetliner to the role of air tanker. Another modern-era passenger aircraft that has now been converted for aerial firefighting missions in the U.S. is the McDonnell Douglas MD-87 jetliner. The MD-87 can carry up to 4,000 gallons of fire fighting retardant. Coulson Aviation unveiled the future of aerial fire fighting with the Boeing 737-300 in May 2017. Six aircraft have been purchased from Southwest Airlines for the RADS system conversion which is set to enter service in December 2017. The 737 aircraft is smaller than the C-130Q which allows for a wider range of airfields to be utilized. Britt Coulson further explained the aircraft will be able to retain the current seat and galley configuration for tanker operations.\nOn 22 November, 2018, the 737 was used for the first time to fight a fire new Newcastle, Australia.\n\nall links, citations and data sources are listed in the paragraph above. For accident and grounding citations, see paragraph below table.\n\nCategory legend: Light: under , Medium: under , Heavy: under , Super Heavy: Over - currently only used for the B747 Supertanker.\n\nOther former military aircraft utilized as firefighting air tankers in the U.S. in the past included the B-17 and the PB4Y-2, a version of the B-24.\n\nThe Lead Plane function directs the activities of the airtankers by both verbal target descriptions and by physically leading the airtankers on the drop run. The leadplane is typically referred to as a \"Bird Dog\" in Canada or \"Supervision\" aircraft in Australia. The O-2 Skymaster, Cessna 310 and OV-10 Bronco have been used as spotter and lead plane platforms. The Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources has also used the Cessna 337. The Beechcraft Baron was long used as a leadplane or air attack ship, but most were retired in 2003; more common now is the Beechcraft King Air and the Twin Commander 690. A Cessna Citation 500 jet owned by Air Spray (1967) LTd. was used by the British Columbia Ministry of Forests beginning in 1995 and used for two fire seasons to lead the very fast Electra L188 air tanker to the fires. This was the first time a jet aircraft was used as a lead plane or \"bird dog\". The Department of Parks and Wildlife in Western Australia operates a fleet of nine American Champion Scouts 8GCBC during the summer months as spotter aircraft and Air Attack platforms. The Provinces of Alberta and British Columbia and the Yukon Territories contract to supply Twin Commander 690 as bird dog aircraft for their air tanker fleets. Air Spray owns 9 Twin Commander 690 for use as bird dog aircraft.\n\nIn the United States, most of these aircraft are privately owned and contracted to government agencies, and the National Guard and the U.S. Marines also maintain fleets of firefighting aircraft. On May 10, 2004, The U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) announced that they were cancelling contracts with operators of 33 heavy airtankers. They cited liability concerns and an inability to safely manage the fleet after the wing failure and resulting crash of a C-130A Hercules in California and a PB4Y-2 in Colorado during the summer of 2002. Both aged aircraft broke up in flight due to catastrophic fatigue cracks at the wing roots. After subsequent third-party examination and extensive testing of all USFS contracted heavy airtankers, three companies were awarded contracts and now maintain a combined fleet of 23 aircraft.\n\nBorate salts used in the past to fight wildfires have been found to sterilize the soil and be toxic to animals so are now prohibited. Newer retardants use ammonium sulfate or ammonium polyphosphate with attapulgite clay thickener or diammonium phosphate with a guar gum derivative thickener. These are not only less toxic but act as fertilizers to help the regrowth of plants after the fire. Fire retardants often contain wetting agents, preservatives and rust inhibitors and are colored red with ferric oxide or fugitive color to mark where they have been dropped. Brand names of fire retardants for aerial application include Fire-Trol and Phos-Chek.\n\nSome water-dropping aircraft carry tanks of a guar gum derivative to thicken the water and reduce runoff.\n\nHelicopters can hover over the fire and drop water or retardant. The S-64 Helitanker has microprocessor-controlled doors on its tank. The doors are controlled based on the area to be covered and wind conditions. Fixed-wing aircraft must make a pass and drop water or retardant like a bomber. Spotter (Air Tactical Group Supervisor) aircraft often orbit the fire at a higher altitude to coordinate the efforts of the smoke jumper, helicopter, media, and retardant-dropping aircraft; while lead planes fly low-level ahead of the airtankers to mark the trajectory for the drop, and ensure overall safety for both ground-based and aerial firefighters.\n\nWater is usually dropped directly on flames because its effect is short-lived. Fire retardants are typically dropped ahead of the moving fire or along its edge and may remain effective for two or more days. This can create artificial firebreaks where the terrain is too rugged or remote for ground crews to cut fireline.\n\nAerial firefighting is most effectively used in conjunction with ground-based efforts, as aircraft are only one weapon in the firefighting arsenal. However, there have been cases of aircraft extinguishing fires long before ground crews were able to reach them.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10134394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10134394", "title": "Anastasios George Leventis", "text": "Anastasios George Leventis\n\nAnastasios George Leventis (; December 1902 – October 25, 1978) was a Greek Cypriot businessman who founded a major merchandise trading firm, A.G. Leventis (Nigeria) Plc, in West Africa. A dominant figure in the economy of many West African countries and especially Nigeria, he was awarded the title of Babalaje of Egbaland by Alake Ladapo Ademola.\n\nHis daughter Fotini married politician Tassos Papadopoulos, who eventually became President of Cyprus.\n\nLeventis was born in the village of Lemythou, Limassol District, in the Troodos Mountains. His father was a minister of the Greek Orthodox Church and was also a schoolmaster.Leventis attended Mitsis Commercial School. At the age of 16, he traveled to France to look for employment and educational opportunities. In 1920, he took up a job opportunity in Nigeria working at a trading post in Nwaniba, along the Cross River.\n\nIn 1922, Leventis joined the firm of A.J. Tangalakis in Abeokuta, Ogun State. He developed most of his connections with Nigeria while working in the city. When his firm merged with G.B. Ollivant, Leventis stayed with amalgamated entity and rose to become the general manager of G. B. Ollivant in Ghana. In 1937, he left the firm after it was acquired by United Africa Company. Leventis then formed his own company and started out as a produce buyer, partly financed by some British cotton manufacturers. Leventis was assisted in the new venture by his brother C.P. Leventis, who organized the Nigerian branch in 1942 and a friend, G.E. Keralakis. In Ghana, Leventis was sympathetic to the cause of African nationalists. He was a friend of Kwame Nkrumah and J.B. Danquah. When a riot flared up in the country, many foreign stores were burnt and closed only Leventis owned stores untouched and open throughout the conflict period. He was made Ghanaian ambassador to France when Nkrumah was elected president of Ghana.\n\nIn the 1940s, the firm faced business challenges, UK authorities imposed a country by country quota on cotton imported from Africa, which was intended to influence textile and oil seed production in West Africa, and after the end of World War II, there were supply shortages. The former situation created the impetus for A.G. Leventis to establish a branch in Nigeria, called A.G. Leventis Nigeria Plc. Within a few years the Nigerian company expanded its business line from cotton exports to merchandise trading and secured new sources of supplies. In the late 1940s, the firm changed its strategy motivated by diversification and modernization. In 1960, Leventis Group speedily completed the Federal Palace Hotel at the request of the Nigerian government, the hotel served as accommodation for guests expected during Nigeria's independence celebration. By the 1960s his firm had grown to become one of the largest distributors in Nigeria and one of the largest merchandise traders in the West African region. In Nigeria, he re-structured the business from general trading into a specialized trading firm and established various department stores. During this period, he thrived as a result of the nation's relatively open economy, as it was not until the 1970s that economic nationalism became a dominant initiative. His marketing style made the Leventis name familiar to many customers in Nigeria. Apart from his sympathy for the nationalist movement in Africa, he also gave his support to his native country's independence movement. He developed a friendship with Arch-Bishop Makarios III who appointed him Cyprus' ambassador to UNESCO and awarded him the medal of St. Barnabas. \n\nAfter his death in 1978, the A.G. Leventis Foundation was established in 1979. It has a primary focus on the cultural heritage of Cyprus and Greece, especially reflected in its collections of Cypriot antiquities displayed in several museums around the world, its restoration of cultural monuments, and its sponsorship of scholarships for postgraduate work in several fields including archaeology and agriculture. The foundation also sponsors work in the areas of environmental protection and medical research.\n\nIn 1987 the A.G. Leventis Gallery was opened in the British Museum, to display Cypriot antiquities from the early Bronze Age to the Roman era. In 1997, a similar display was opened at the Fitzwilliam Museum, and in 2000 another at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.\n\nIn 2008 the A.G. Leventis Foundation endowed a new chair at Cambridge University in Greek culture—the A. G. Leventis Professor of Greek Culture.\n\nThe earliest records of his family go back to the 18th Century when a young ancestor had traveled to the Peloponnese to join the abortive 1770 uprising against Ottoman rule (known to history as the ‘Orlov’ rebellion). By the time of his birth, his family counted a number of distinguished clerics who served at the highest levels — metropolitan bishops, patriarchs from the Orthodox churches of Jerusalem and Antioch, as well as from the Church of Cyprus.\n\nBorn in December 1902 in Lemythou, Cyprus to Neoklis/Papaneoklis Leventis and Salome Theocharides, he had several brothers and sisters: Costas; George, who firstly went to Egypt; Kalliopi, mother of film producer Alki David; Evagoras; Katerina, who wed Mr Myrianthousis; Charalambos; Anastasios; Christodoulos; and David.\n\nHe married Maria Fotini, with whom he had a child, Papadopoulos Leventis.\n\nHe is also uncle to Constantine (Dino) Leventis (1938–2002), businessman and major art benefactor of Hellenic art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and other museums around the world: in April 2000, the Metropolitan Museum opened the A.G. Leventis Foundation Gallery where the museum's collection of Cypriot sculpture, terracottas, vases, jewelry and coins from the fifth and fourth centuries BC are displayed. The foundation also helped pay for similar galleries devoted to ancient Greek and Cypriot art in the British Museum, the Louvre in Paris and the Fitzwilliam Museum at Cambridge University, among others, according to its latest annual report. In Greece, it has financed extensive archeological work.\n\n"}
{"id": "904725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=904725", "title": "Anders Björgerd", "text": "Anders Björgerd\n\nAnders Björgerd (Bjoergerd) (8 November 1920 – 18 July 2017) was a Swedish businessman who was deputy CEO of Sweden's largest publicly listed utility, Sydkraft AB (now E.ON Sverige AB), between the years 1970-1987. He started his career as a trainee with Siemens AG, and later gained employment with Swedish engineering firm ASEA before embarking on his career path with Sydkraft in Malmö, Sweden.\n\nBjörgerd was also the Chairman of the Board for Sydgas AB, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sydkraft and one of Scandinavia's largest suppliers of LPG. He is one of the founders and former owner of Swedpower AB, Scandinavia's largest energy consultancy firm (now operating under the name Vattenfall Power Consultant AB, a wholly owned subsidiary of Vattenfall).\n\nHe also served as Chairman of one of the national state pension funds, 5:e AP Fonden (now 3:e AP Fonden), as well as being a member of the Advisory Board of the Swedish Energy Commission. Björgerd died in July 2017 at the age of 96.\n\n"}
{"id": "44389196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44389196", "title": "Arcplan", "text": "Arcplan\n\nArcplan is a software for Business Intelligence (BI), budgeting, planning & forecasting (BP&F), business analytics and collaborative Business Intelligence. It is the enhancement of the enterprise software inSight® and dynaSight of the former German provider arcplan Information Services GmbH. The company got merged with Canada-based Longview Solutions in 2015. Version 8.7. is available in a 32 and a 64 bit version at the moment.\n\nBefore the merger the company was managed by CEO Roland Hölscher and COO Steffen Weissbarth.\n\nThe software supports users especially in the area of business intelligence (BI) that comprises clustered processes to select, evaluate and present data electronically. Furthermore, enterprise planning and decision making processes can be executed via data analysis. Arcplan is usually employed in midsized companies and large enterprises. Public institutions as well use arcplan.\nIn Germany arcplan is developed, distributed and maintained by arcplan Information Services GmbH (Langenfeld, Northrhine Westphalia).\n\nThe Arcplan software emerged from the client server based software Insight in Düsseldorf, Germany in 1993. The founders were the brothers Udo Wollschläger and Frank Hagedorn (both physicists) as well as the mathematician Dr. Hartmut Krins and the chemist Dr. Bernd Fröhlich. Initially, the software development was done by the physicists Udo Wollschläger, Frank Hagedorn, and Svend Dunkhorst. Holding 40% of the capital, the German Lindner Hotel Group was the largest shareholder, the other shares were held by the founders. In 2005 the company was acquired by Frankfurt (Main) based venture capital company \"Viewpoint Capital Partners GmbH\". In 2015 arcplan got sold to \"Marlin Equity Partners\" and merged with their portfolio company Longview Solutions.\n\nInsight had an integrated development environment that reflected a flexible editor´s concept. With the help of the editor´s concept users were enabled to create customized reports via Drag & Drop without any programming skills. The editor´s concept in general and the drag & drop report development in particular were innovations in comparison to the competition.\n\nIn the early 90s arcplan was one of the first software programs to directly access SAP data for reporting and analysis.\n\nIn 1996 Insight being the integrated development environment became part of the webserver based software Dynasight. Dynasight was one of the first software solutions to integrate corporate management. It enabled the access to business applications via a Java-capable browser.\nAfter having developed Dynasight to a business intelligence platform, dynaSight (Version 4.1) evolved to arcplan Enterprise (Version 5.0) in March 2006. Since September 2013 the business intelligence platform is available as arcplan 8 providing three modules for a different scope of applications. With the release of version 8, HTML5 is supported; furthermore the access via mobile devices was simplified by implementing a responsive design approach.\n\nBefore the merger Arcplan had offices in Germany, the United States, Switzerland and Singapore. Arcplan resellers were located in the People´s Republic of China, Korea, Chile, Finland and Russia. The company employed around 100 people globally before the merger.\n\nThe software meets the typical requirements of a business intelligence application and offers, depending on the package, several additional functionalities. The integrated platform for reporting and planning is looked upon as a unique selling proposition by IT market research provider Gartner Inc.\n\nIn its periodic market study The BI Survey European market research company BARC rated arcplan software as a software for midsized working groups and leading in 8 peer groups.\n\nThe software provides direct access to the following data sources:\n\nArcplan is globally employed by about 3.200 companies. Additionally the software is used in many public institutions such as Swiss Post, the municipal Data Processing Centre city of Frechen (KDVZ Frechen) and the bank of Chile (Banco Central de Chile).\n\n"}
{"id": "28935637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28935637", "title": "Bernardo Hernández González", "text": "Bernardo Hernández González\n\nBernardo Hernández González (born 1970) is a Spanish technology entrepreneur and business angel. He is a General Partner with e.ventures in Berlin. He was head of Flickr at Yahoo until he left in April 2015. He had been Director of Product Management at Google and Managing Director at Zagat. He has started, alone or with other partners, several Internet companies in Spain, such as Idealista.com, FloresFrescas.com or 11870.com. He was an early investor in Tuenti, a leading social network in Spain where he served as President of the Board until the sale to Telefonica in the summer of 2010. He is also President of the Board of the first internet startup in Spain to go public, bodaclick.com\n\nHe is the founder of StepOne, a company that helps Spanish technology companies in their internationalization. From this company he has started the first computer science talent exchange program between Spain and the Silicon Valley, Jóvenes con Futuro.\n\nIn 2009 he was recognized as the Tech Entrepreneur of the Year by the Banesto Foundation. In 2010 he received, together with Nicholas Negroponte, a Honorary Degree in Architecture and Systems by Universidad Camilo José Cela. In 2011 he received the Successful Career Award by the ICADE Asociación. Bernardo Hernández has been included in the list of the 25 most influential Spanish internet people by El Mundo. for 7 consecutive years now. In January 2013 he is named the number 1 most influential person in the American food industry by The Daily Meal \n\nHe graduated from ICADE, Pontifical University of Comillas, a prestigious business university in Madrid (Spain) in 1993. He has a Masters in Finance from Boston College and holds the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation.\n\nAt the age of 29, after five years as an analyst and portfolio manager in the asset management industry with companies like Fidelity Investments, BBVA and Putnam Investments, he started his first internet venture idealista.com, now the leading real estate online portal in Spain. Since then he has participated in other online start-ups as a Business Angel, like floresfrescas.com, planetaki.com, 11870.com or the leading social network in Spain, Tuenti. He is a member of the board of bodaclick.com the first Spanish internet company to go public in the secondary market.\n\nBernardo joined Google in 2005 and is Director of Product Management, based in Mountain View, California.\n\nIn May 2011, he was appointed jury of the Prince of Asturias Awards of Science and Technology\n\nBernardo has participated in several companies, most of them through his own funding company Solón Inversiones:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4086327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4086327", "title": "Betsy Stark", "text": "Betsy Stark\n\nBetsy Stark is an American media executive and former broadcast news correspondent. Since January 2011, she has been Managing Director of Content and Media Strategy for the global communications firm Ogilvy Public Relations a division of WPP.\n\nIn July 2013, PR Week named Stark a “game changer” on its annual Power List, citing her work creating journalistic-quality content to help Ogilvy's clients tell their stories. Her work directing a 13-part video series on behalf of the Government of Mexico was honored with both SABRE and PR Week awards for reputation and crisis management.\n\nStark is best known for her decades of work as an award-winning financial reporter and anchorwoman, most notably as the Business Correspondent for ABC News. Stark led the network's coverage of business and the economy from 1998-2010, a period that included the Great Recession. Her stories appeared on \"ABC World News Tonight\" with Peter Jennings and Charles Gibson, \"Good Morning America,\" \"This Week\" and other ABC News programs.\n\nOver the course of her journalism career, Stark won four national Emmy Awards, including a 2005 Business Emmy for her enterprise reporting on “The Broken Pension Promise” and a 2009 Emmy for her contributions to ABC’s team coverage of “The Inauguration of Barack Obama.”\n\nShe is the winner of two George Foster Peabody Awards, one for her contributions to ABC’s coverage of “9/11” and a second for her participation in ABC 2000 the network’s coverage of the dawn of the new millennium.\n\nHer story “Motherhood on Madison Avenue: The Neil French Flap,” exploring sexism in the advertising industry, was honored with a 2006 Gracie Award for hard news features from the Alliance for Women in Media.\n\nStark has interviewed dozens of CEOs, government leaders and top economic policymakers. In 2006 she was invited by The White House to conduct an exclusive interview with Pres. George W. Bush on his stewardship of the economy. But her reporting also focused on the challenges faced by ordinary Americans. Her signature series, “The Kitchen Table Economy,” featured intimate portraits of families affected by the economic crisis. The series put a human face on the worst economic slowdown since the Depression and received wide acclaim. She also frequently reported on workforce issues, gender bias, pay inequities, opportunities for disabled workers, the work-life balance, elder care, the \"sandwich\" generation and efforts by older workers to reinvent their careers.\n\nWhile at ABC, Stark was one of the most prolific reporters in all of network television, consistently placing in the Tyndall Report's top 20 for the most on-air appearances. In 2008, during the financial crisis, she was among Tyndall's top five. During the height of the crisis, when Stark appeared on the broadcast almost every evening, ABC World News won the ratings race.\n\nOn April 2, 2010, Stark announced that she had been laid off as part of a 25 percent staff downsizing by ABC News.\n\nIn late 2010, Stark contributed stories to the PBS NewsHour, including a series of reports on how the tough economy was impacting the 2010 midterm elections, part of PBS' Patchwork Nation project.\n\nIn 2010, she also served as guest host of WBUR’s On Point, a two-hour national radio program syndicated by NPR.\n\nStark began her television career as a documentary producer for the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) program \"Inside Story,\" for which she won a 1983 Emmy Award for Outstanding Investigative Reporting for her work on the CBS News versus William Westmoreland lawsuit.\n\nIn 1988, she joined Dow Jones as a correspondent and later senior producer of the weekly \"Wall Street Journal Report.\" In 1996, she became anchor and editor of her own live, daily business news program, \"Heard on the Street A.M.\" Stark also anchored a public affairs program, \"Metro Journal,\" which won an award for local political coverage in its first year.\n\nShe is a graduate of Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts, which has named her one of its most Notable Alumnae.\n\nMs. Stark is the mother of two children, Ben, a lawyer, and Sara, a writer and art historian. She lives in New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7038155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7038155", "title": "Breakage", "text": "Breakage\n\nBreakage is a term used in telecommunications and accounting to indicate any type of service which is unused by the customer. A good example would be gift cards or calling cards that have been sold but never redeemed. Revenue from breakage is almost entirely profitable, since companies need not provide any goods or services for unredeemed gift cards. It should not be confused with Shrinkage (accounting) (items which are not used by the customer because they disappeared from inventory).\n\nIn 2006, a blog called \"The Stalwart\" criticized Best Buy for using estimated breakage to improve their revenue numbers.\n\nIn telecommunications, breakage can occur in several ways. The key elements in maximizing revenue versus service via breakage are:\n\n\nThe following examples are given in terms of voice calling, although they may also apply to data, short message or other services.\n\n\nCareful research and planning can maximise some forms of breakage. For example, if a high percentage of mobile voice calls on the network are less than one minute in duration, then a rating plan could use an initial quanta of 60 seconds, followed by 1 second quanta. The plan appears to use a low quanta, but in fact many calls will be hit by the initial 60 second quanta.\n\nSimilarly, if many users are shown to use 14 GB of data per month on a data plan, then offering data plans of 10 GB or 30 GB will force many users to pay for much more data than they need, which will expire at the end of each month.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3055879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3055879", "title": "Brief psychotherapy", "text": "Brief psychotherapy\n\nBrief psychotherapy (also brief therapy, planned short-term therapy) is an umbrella term for a variety of approaches to short-term, solution-oriented psychotherapy.\n\nBrief therapy differs from other schools of therapy in that it emphasizes (1) a focus on a specific problem and (2) direct intervention. In brief therapy, the therapist takes responsibility for working more pro-actively with the client in order to treat clinical and subjective conditions faster. It also emphasizes precise observation, utilization of natural resources, and a temporary suspension of disbelief to consider new perspectives and multiple viewpoints.\n\nRather than the formal analysis of historical causes of distress, the primary approach of brief therapy is to help the client to view the present from a wider context and to utilize more functional understandings (not necessarily at a conscious level). By becoming aware of these new understandings, successful clients will \"de facto\" undergo spontaneous and generative change.\n\nBrief therapy is often highly strategic, exploratory, and solution-based rather than problem-oriented. It is less concerned with how a problem arose than with the current factors sustaining it and preventing change. Brief therapists do not adhere to one \"correct\" approach, but rather accept that there being many paths, any of which may or may not in combination turn out to be ultimately beneficial.\n\nMilton Erickson was a practitioner of brief therapy, using clinical hypnosis as his primary tool. To a great extent he developed this himself. His approach was popularized by Jay Haley, in the book \"Uncommon therapy: The psychiatric techniques of Milton Erickson M.D.\"\nRichard Bandler, the co-founder of neuro-linguistic programming, is another firm proponent of brief therapy. After many years of studying Erickson's therapeutic work, he wrote:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53086898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53086898", "title": "Business Park Skejby", "text": "Business Park Skejby\n\nBusiness Park Skejby is a large business park in the northern district of Aarhus N, in the city of Aarhus, Denmark. \n\nBusiness Park Skejby was officially created in 2013 and stretches north from the neighbourhood of Christiansbjerg to Skejby and is bounded by the major roads of Ring 2 and Randersvej. Most of the businesses and institutions within the park area were constructed several decades ago.\n\nApart from small and large businesses, the business park area is also home to the smaller business park of Agro Food Park, a large number of educational facilities and a few residential areas as well. Major institutions, most of which predates 2013, includes:\n\n\nLandmarks for the area includes \"Aarhus Vandtårn\", a former water tower in red brick with a bright green copper roof, the nature site of Vestereng - a former military training ground -, and the old village of Skejby with an old white-washed village church.\n\nBusiness Park Skejby has its headquarters outside the park in the library and culture centre of Dokk1 at the harbourfront.\n\nThe business park is located at the outer ring road of Ring 2 (Hasle Ringvej) and the intercity motorway of Randersvej, with easy access to all of Aarhus. \n\nSince December 2017, the business park has been connected to the inner city, including the business park headquarters and the central station, by the Aarhus light rail, an electric tram system.\n"}
{"id": "994583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=994583", "title": "CitySpire Center", "text": "CitySpire Center\n\nThe CitySpire Center is the third tallest mixed-use skyscraper in New York City, located on the south side of West 56th Street between 6th and 7th Avenues in Midtown Manhattan. Finished in 1987, it is 248 meters (814 ft) tall and has 75 floors, with a total area of . The building is owned by Tishman Speyer Properties.\n\nDesigned by Helmut Jahn, it is the twenty fifth-tallest building in New York City and the 42nd tallest in the United States. The bottom 23 floors of the tower are for commercial use and above it are luxury apartments, which increase in size the higher they are.\n\nSoon after the building's completion, residents of nearby buildings complained of hearing a loud whistling noise which, it later turned out, came from the wind blowing through the decorative dome at the building's top. The city threatened daily fines for the noise, which lasted for more than a year. Developers silenced the whistle by removing every other louver in the cooling tower, thereby widening the narrow channels through which the wind whistled.\n\nThe Moorish-inspired dome, which is a homage to the adjacent New York City Center on West 55th Street, is illuminated at night with a white light. The building has an unusual octagonal shape.\n\nCitySpire Center is part of a cluster of four tall towers along with the Carnegie Hall Tower (which mimics the design of its famous namesake concert hall), the Metropolitan Tower and One57.\n\nSome time around completion, it was revealed that the building exceeded its height limit by around 14 feet (4 m). The developers compensated for this violation by agreeing to build dance studio space for the city's Department of Cultural Affairs on an adjacent site.\n\nWhen completed, the CitySpire Center was the second tallest concrete tower in the world after the Willis Tower in Chicago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13931672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13931672", "title": "Civiløkonom", "text": "Civiløkonom\n\nCiviløkonom, literally \"civil economist\", is a professional title in Denmark (with corresponding titles in Norway and Sweden, see below under \"See also\") used for an individual who holds a certain degree in business administration and economics after three years of studies: \"Erhvervsvidenskabelig Afgangseksamen\" (in Danish) \"candidatus mercaturae\" (in Latin). The \"candidatus mercaturae\" (cand.merc. for short) is a 2-year MSc programme on top of the BSc \"Handelsvidenskabelig Afgangseksamen\" (HA for short), so a person holding a cand.merc title has studied at a university for at least 5 years (3 years as an undergraduate/college student, and 2 years in graduate school). Both the undergraduate and the graduate programs are offered as combination programs including other scientific fields, such as computer science, psychology, math, philosophy etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "339953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339953", "title": "Coolie", "text": "Coolie\n\nThe word coolie (also spelled \"koelie\", \"kuli\", \"cooli\", \"cooly\" and \"quli\"); (Hindi: कुली, Bengali: কুলি, Gujarati: કૂલી, Punjabi: ਕੁਲੀ, Tamil: கூலி, Telugu: కూలీ, Kannada: ಕೂಲೀ, Malayalam: കൂലി, Sinhala: කූලී, Urdu: , Chinese: 苦力, Persian: کولی) meaning a labourer, has a variety of other implications and is sometimes regarded as offensive or a pejorative, depending upon the historical and geographical context. It is similar, in many respects, to the Spanish term peon, although both terms are used in some countries, with slightly differing implications.\n\nDuring the 19th and early 20th centuries, coolie was usually a term implying an indentured labourer from South Asia, South East Asia or China.\n\nIn South Asia, it is now a commonly used and inoffensive word for workers in unskilled manual labour, especially porters at railway stations.\n\nHowever, coolie is now regarded as derogatory and/or a racial slur in the Caribbean, Africa, Oceania, North America, Southeast Asia and Europe – in reference to people from Asia. This is particularly so in South Africa, East Africa, Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, Suriname, Jamaica, Mauritius, Fiji, and the Malay Peninsula. In 2000, the parliament of South Africa enacted the Promotion of Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, which has among its primary objectives the prevention of hate speech terms such as coolie (koelie).\n\nThe origins of the word are uncertain but it is thought to have originated from the Tamil word for a payment for work, \"kuli\" (). An alternative etymological explanation is that the word came from Hindustani word \"qulī\" (, قلی), which itself could be from the Ottoman Turkish word for slave (or as a general name for imperial subjects regardless of other social status), قول (\"qul\"). Another explanation is that the Hindustani word \"qulī\" originated from the Gujarati aboriginal tribe or caste known as \"Kuli\", and the word was picked up by the Portuguese who then used it in South India, hence the Tamil word \"kuli\". The word was used in this sense for labourers from India. In 1727, Dr. Engelbert Kämpfer described \"coolies\" as dock labourers who would unload Dutch merchant ships at Nagasaki in Japan.\n\nThe Chinese phrase 苦力 (pinyin: kǔlì) literally translates as \"bitter strength\" but is more commonly understood as meaning \"bitter labour\".\nSocial and political pressure led to the abolition of the slave trade throughout the British Empire in 1807, with other European nations following suit. Labour-intensive industries, such as cotton and sugar plantations, mines and railway construction, in the colonies were left without a cheap source of manpower. As a consequence, a large-scale slavery-like trade in Asian (primarily Indian and Chinese) indentured labourers began in the 1820s to fill this vacuum. Some of these labourers signed contracts based on misleading promises, some were kidnapped and sold into the trade, some were victims of clan violence whose captors sold them to coolie brokers, while others sold themselves to pay off gambling debts. For those who did sign on voluntarily, they generally signed on for a period of two to five years. In addition to having their passage paid for, Coolies were also paid under twenty cents per day, on average. However, over a dollar would be taken from them every month in order to pay off their debts. British companies were the first to experiment with this potential new form of cheap labour in 1807, when they imported 200 Chinese men to work in Trinidad. One of the first people to begin importing Coolies from the East was Sir John Gladstone.\n\nThe coolie trade was often compared to the earlier slave trade and they accomplished very similar things. Much like slave plantations, one Caribbean estate could have over six hundred coolies, with Indians making up over half. Much like slave plantations, there were preconceived notions of how different ethnicities worked. In his paper \"Eastern Coolie Labour,\" W. L. Distant recalled his time on an estate observing the work ethic and behaviors of Coolies. Just as many believed that Africans had an affinity for hard outdoor labor, Distant believed that Indian, Chinese, and Japanese Coolies were different in their ability to perform certain jobs. Indian Coolies were viewed as lower in status. Those who ran estates believed that Chinese and Japanese Coolies were harder working, united, and clean. Indian Coolies, on the other hand, were viewed as dirty and were treated as children who required constant supervision.\n\nAlthough there are reports of ships for Asian coolies carrying women and children, the great majority of them were men. Regulations were put in place as early as 1837 by the British authorities in India to safeguard these principles of voluntary, contractual work and safe and sanitary transportation, although in practice this rarely occurred (especially during examples such as the Pacific Passage or the Guano Pits of Peru). The Chinese government also made efforts to secure the well-being of their nation's workers, with representations being made to relevant governments around the world.\n\nWorkers from China were mainly transported to work in Peru and Cuba. However, many Chinese laborers worked in British colonies such as Singapore, Jamaica, British Guiana (now Guyana), British Malaya, Trinidad and Tobago, British Honduras (now Belize) - as well as in the Dutch colonies within the Dutch East Indies, and Suriname. The first shipment of Chinese labourers was to the British colony of Trinidad in 1806.\n\nIn 1847, two ships from Cuba transported workers to Havana to work in the sugar cane fields from the port of Xiamen, one of the five Chinese treaty ports opened to the British by the Treaty of Nanking in 1842. The trade soon spread to other ports in Guangdong, and demand became particularly strong in Peru for workers in the silver mines and the guano collecting industry. Australia began importing workers in 1848, and the United States began using them in 1865 on the First Transcontinental Railroad construction. These workers were deceived about their terms of employment to a much greater extent than their Indian counterparts, and consequently, there was a much higher level of Chinese emigration during this period.\nThe trade flourished from 1847 to 1854 without incident, until reports began to surface of the mistreatment of the workers in Cuba and Peru. As the British government had political and legal responsibility for many of the ports involved - including Amoy - such ports were immediately closed. Despite these closures, the trade simply shifted to the more accommodating port within the Portuguese enclave of Macau.\n\nMany coolies were first deceived or kidnapped and, then kept in barracoons (detention centres) or loading vessels in the ports of departure, as were African slaves. Their voyages, which are sometimes called the Pacific Passage, were as inhumane and dangerous as the notorious Middle Passage of the Atlantic slave trade. Mortality was very high; it is estimated that from 1847 to 1859, the average mortality rate for coolies aboard ships to Cuba was 15.2 percent, and losses among those aboard ships to Peru were as high as 40 percent in the 1850s, and 30.44 percent from 1860 to 1863.\n\nThey were sold and were taken to work in plantations or mines with very bad living and working conditions. The duration of a contract was typically five to eight years, but many coolies did not live out their term of service due to hard labour and mistreatment. Survivors were often forced to remain in servitude beyond the contracted period. The coolies who worked on the sugar plantations in Cuba and in the guano beds of the Chincha Islands (the islands of Hell) of Peru were treated brutally. Seventy-five percent of the Chinese coolies in Cuba died before fulfilling their contracts. More than two-thirds of the Chinese coolies who arrived in Peru between 1849 and 1874 died within the contract period. In 1860 it was calculated that of the 4000 coolies brought to the Chinchas since the trade began, not one had survived.\n\nBecause of these unbearable conditions, Chinese coolies often revolted against their Ko-Hung bosses and foreign company bosses at ports of departure, on ships, and in foreign lands. The coolies were put in the same neighbourhoods as Africans and, since most were unable to return to their homeland or have their wives come to the New World, many married African women. The coolies' interracial relationships and marriages with Africans, Europeans and Indigenous peoples, formed some of the modern world's Afro-Asian and Asian Latin American populations.\n\nChinese immigration to the United States was almost entirely voluntary, but working and social conditions were still harsh. In 1868, the Burlingame Treaty allowed unrestricted Chinese immigration into the country. Within a decade significant levels of anti-Chinese sentiment had built up, stoked by populists such as Denis Kearney with racist slogans – \"To an American, death is preferable to life on a par with the Chinese.\"\n\nAlthough Chinese workers contributed to the building of the first First Transcontinental Railroad in the United States and of the Canadian Pacific Railway in western Canada, Chinese settlement was discouraged after completion of the construction. California's Anti-Coolie Act of 1862 levied a monthly tax on Chinese immigrants doing business in the state, and the federal Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 prohibited immigration of Chinese laborers (repealed 1943).\n\nDespite attempts to restrict the influx of cheap labour from China, beginning in the 1870s Chinese workers helped construct a vast network of levees in the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta. These levees made thousands of acres of fertile marshlands available for agricultural production.\n\nThe 1879 Constitution of the State of California declared that \"Asiatic coolieism is a form of human slavery, and is forever prohibited in this State, and all contracts for coolie labour shall be void.\"\n\"Colonos asiáticos\" is a Spanish term for coolies. The Spanish colony of Cuba feared slavery uprisings such as those that took place in Haiti and used coolies as a transition between slaves and free labor. They were neither free nor slaves. Indentured Chinese servants also labored in the sugarcane fields of Cuba well after the 1884 abolition of slavery in that country. Two scholars of Chinese labor in Cuba, Juan Pastrana and Juan Perez de la Riva, substantiated horrific conditions of Chinese coolies in Cuba and stated that coolies were slaves in all but name. Denise Helly is one researcher who believes that despite their slave-like treatment, the free and legal status of the Asian laborers in Cuba separated them from slaves. The coolies could challenge their superiors, run away, petition government officials, and rebel according to Rodriguez Pastor and Trazegnies Granda. Once they had fulfilled their contracts the \"colonos asiáticos\" integrated into the countries of Peru, The Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and Cuba. They adopted cultural traditions from the natives and also welcomed in non-Chinese to experience and participate into their own traditions. Before the Cuban Revolution in 1959, Havana had Latin America's largest Chinatown.\n\nIn South America, Chinese indentured labourers worked in Peru's silver mines and coastal industries (i.e., guano, sugar, and cotton) from the early 1850s to the mid-1870s; about 100,000 people immigrated as indentured workers. They participated in the War of the Pacific, looting and burning down the haciendas where they worked, after the capture of Lima by the invading Chilean army in January 1880. Some 2000 coolies even joined the Chilean Army in Peru, taking care of the wounded and burying the dead. Others were sent by Chileans to work in the newly conquered nitrate fields.\n\nThe Chinese Engineering and Mining Corporation, of which later U.S. president Herbert Hoover was a director, was instrumental in supplying Chinese coolie labour to South African mines from c.1902 to c.1910 at the request of mine owners, who considered such labour cheaper than native African and white labour. The horrendous conditions suffered by the coolie labourers led to questions in the British parliament as recorded in Hansard.\n\nIn 1866, the British, French and Chinese governments agreed to mitigate the abuse by requiring all traders to pay for the return of all workers after their contract ended. The employers in the British West Indies declined these conditions, bringing the trade there to an end. Until the trade was finally abolished in 1875, over 150,000 coolies had been sold to Cuba alone, the majority having been shipped from Macau. These labourers endured conditions far worse than those experienced by their Indian counterparts. Even after the 1866 reforms, the scale of abuse and conditions of near slavery did not get any better – if anything they deteriorated. In the early 1870s increased media exposure of the trade led to a public outcry, and the British, as well as the Qing government, put pressure on the Portuguese authorities to bring the trade at Macau to an end; this was ultimately achieved in 1874. By that time, a total of up to half a million Chinese workers had been exported.\n\nThe term \"coolie\" was also applied to Chinese workers recruited for contracts on cacao plantations in German Samoa. German planters went to great lengths to secure access to their \"coolie\" labour supply from China. In 1908 a Chinese commissioner, Lin Shu Fen, reported on the cruel treatment of coolie workers on German plantations in the western Samoan Islands. The trade began largely after the establishment of colonial German Samoa in 1900 and lasted until the arrival of New Zealand forces in 1914. More than 2000 Chinese \"coolies\" were present in the islands in 1914 and most were eventually repatriated by the New Zealand administration.\n\nBy the 1820s, many Indians (they were referred to as Klings, or Keling, which was used as a derogatory word, much as the word Coolie) were voluntarily enlisting to go abroad for work, in the hopes of a better life. European merchants and businessmen quickly took advantage of this and began recruiting them for work as a cheap source of labour. The British began shipping Indians to colonies around the world, including British Mauritius, British Fiji, British Natal, British East Africa, British Tanganyika, British Somaliland, British Bechuanaland, British Seychelles, British Uganada, British Northern Rhodesia, British Rhodesia, British Nyasaland, British Guiana, British Trinidad and Tobago, British Jamaica, British Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Grenada, British Honduras, Saint Kitts and Nevis, British Barbados, the rest of the British West Indies, and British Malaya. The Dutch shipped workers to labor on the plantations on Dutch Surinam the Netherlands Antilles, and the Dutch East Indies. The French shipped laborers to Guadeloupe, Martinique, French Guiana, the rest of the French West Indies, and Réunion.\n\nA system of agents was used to infiltrate the rural villages of India and recruit labourers. They would often deceive the credulous workers about the great opportunities that awaited them for their own material betterment abroad. The Indians primarily came from the Indo-Gangetic Plain, but also from Tamil Nadu and other areas to the south of the country. Indians had faced a great number of social and economic disasters, causing them to be more eager than other groups to leave India. In the last part of the nineteenth century alone, there were 24 famines.\n\nWithout permission from the British authorities, the French transported Indian workers to their sugar producing colony, Reunion Island, from as early as 1826. By 1830, over 3,000 labourers had been transported. After this trade was discovered, the French successfully negotiated with the British in 1860 for permission to transport over 6,000 workers annually, on condition that the trade would be suspended if abuses were discovered to be taking place.\n\nThe British began to transport Indians to Mauritius in the Indian Ocean, starting in 1829. Slavery had been abolished, with the planters receiving two million pounds sterling in compensation for the loss of their slaves. The planters turned to bringing in a large number of indentured labourers from India to work in the sugar cane fields. Between 1834 and 1921, around half a million indentured labourers were present on the island. They worked on sugar estates, factories, in transport and on construction sites.\n\nIn 1837, the Raj issued a set of regulations for the trade. The rules provided for each labourer to be personally authorised for transportation by an officer designated by the Government, limited the length of service to five years subject to voluntary renewal, made the contractor responsible for returning the worker after the contract elapsed and required the vessels to conform to basic health standards.\n\nDespite this, conditions on the ships were often extremely crowded, with rampant disease and malnutrition. Coolies were also not informed about the length of the trip or about the island that they would be going to. The workers were paid a pittance for their labour, and were expected to work in often awful and harsh conditions. Although there were no large scale scandals involving coolie abuse in British colonies, workers often ended up being forced to work, and manipulated in such a way that they became dependent on the plantation owners so that in practice they remained there long after their contracts expired; possibly as little as 10% of the coolies actually returned to their original country of origin. Colonial legislation was also passed to severely limit their freedoms; in Mauritius a compulsory pass system was instituted to enable their movements to be easily tracked. Conditions were much worse in the French colonies of Reunion and Guadeloupe and Martinique, where workers were 'systematically overworked' and abnormally high mortality rates were recorded for those working in the mines. Generally, Indian coolies were noted to have higher mortality rates as a whole, and were less likely to be able to return home. Companies would often promise good food, durable clothing, adequate housing, safe passage, and schools. However, these promises were rarely kept, leading to the higher mortality rate and image of Indian coolies being \"dirty\".\n\nThe voyage itself was often a highly dangerous venture, especially for coolie women. Though some ships had made attempts to prevent assault, rape, and general mistreatment in sailor contracts, these indiscretions were still common. Even with punishments in place, on ship and land, men who assaulted women and children were rarely punished, leaving women in an even more vulnerable position.\n\nHowever, there were also attempts by the British authorities to regulate and mitigate the worst abuses. Workers were regularly checked up on by health inspectors, and they were vetted before transportation to ensure that they were suitably healthy and fit to be able to endure the rigours of labour. Children under the age of 15 were not allowed to be transported from their parents under any circumstances.\n\nThe first campaign against the 'coolie' trade in England likened the system of indentured labour to the slavery of the past. The campaign against coolie emigration was led by Joseph Sturge, with the Society of Friends. Petitions from Sturge, the Society of Friends, various other humanitarian groups, and from citizens of entire cities were routinely sent to the Colonial Offices. In response to this pressure, the labour export was temporarily stopped in 1839 by the authorities when the scale of the abuses became known, but it was soon renewed due to its growing economic importance. A more rigorous regulatory framework was put into place and severe penalties were imposed for infractions in 1842. In that year, almost 35,000 people were shipped to Mauritius.\n\nIn 1844, the trade was expanded to the colonies in the West Indies, including Jamaica, Trinidad and Demerara, where the Asian population was soon a major component of the island demographic.\n\nStarting in 1879, many Indians were transported to Fiji to work on the sugar cane plantations. Many of them chose to stay after their term of indenture elapsed and today they number about 40% of the total population. Indian workers were also imported into the Dutch colony of Suriname after the Dutch signed a treaty with the United Kingdom on the recruitment of contract workers in 1870. In Mauritius, the Indian population are now demographically dominant, with Indian festivals being celebrated as national holidays.\n\nThis system prevailed until the early twentieth century. Increasing focus on the brutalities and abuses of the trade by the sensationalist media of the time, incited public outrage and lead to the official ending of the coolie trade in 1916 by the British government. By that time tens of thousands of Chinese workers were being used along the Western Front by the allied forces (see Chinese Labour Corps).\n\nA major difference between the Chinese and the Indian coolie trades was that women and children were brought from India, along with men, while Chinese coolies were 99% male. This led to a high rate of Chinese men marrying women of other ethnicities like Indian women and mixed race Creole women. The contrast with the female to male ratio among Indian and Chinese immigrants has been compared by historians. In Sumatra in the Dutch East Indies just 18,731 Chinese women and 92,985 Chinese men served as coolies on plantations. Chinese women migrated less than Javanese and Indian women as indentured coolies. The number of Chinese women as coolies was \"very small\" while Chinese men were easily taken into the coolie trade. In Cuba men made up the vast majority of Chinese indentured servants on sugar plantations and in Peru non-Chinese women married the mostly male Chinese coolies. Polyandry was a common practice amongst Indian coolies. Between 1845 and 1917, twenty-five percent of all Indians brought to the Caribbean were women. With women as a severe minority, their morality was questioned and the actions of men as a result of having so few women was blamed on the women. Between 1858 and 1859, laws were put into place stating that the ratio of men to women could not exceed 2:1, whereas before it was 3:1. However, there continued to be a severe shortage of women. This gave women a new sense of power when it came to choosing a partner. With a shortage of women, it became the responsibility of the male suitor to provide a hefty dowry to a woman's father, regardless of what caste she came from. Unfortunately, this also put women in a very vulnerable position, especially when alone. Rape was a common occurrence, and there were accounts of women being bound and gagged in their own home by men. Between 1872 and 1900, it was reported that 87 women were murdered with 65 of those being married women who were accused of being unfaithful.\n\nThe scarcity of Indian women in the Caribbean may not have been completely due to the women's inability to perform work required of them. Many coolie women saw the chance to leave for the Caribbean as a way to escape abusive husbands, to hide pregnancy, to escape shame, or to simply find a better life. The 1883 Indian Immigration Act aimed to stop women from escaping their abusive husbands, which in turn made it much more difficult for women to emigrate. This in part due to an agent generally needing to travel to the woman's village in order to verify who she was.\n\nChinese women were scarce in every place where Chinese indentured laborers were brought, the migration was dominated by Chinese men. Up to the 1940s men made up the vast majority of the Costa Rican Chinese community. Males made up the majority of the original Chinese community in Mexico and they married Mexican women. One stark difference between Indian and Chinese coolies was the treatment of women, despite both groups having a severe shortage. Though there were crimes against women and women being murdered, these incidents were nowhere near as frequent as with Indian coolies. Though this was because there were so few Chinese, it became common for people to believe that Indians murder their women while Chinese women stay alive because, unlike their Indian counterparts, they are chaste.\n\nIn the early 1900s, the Chinese communities in Manila, Singapore, Mauritius, New Zealand, Victoria in Australia, the United States, and Victoria in British Columbia in Canada were all male dominated. Though the lack of women became a problem in later years, initially women were not high on the priority list when it came to coolie recruitment. Generally, it was believed that women were unwilling to perform the hard outdoor labor. Those who did perform it were still seen as not as good as men.\n\nIn 2000, the parliament of South Africa enacted the Promotion of Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act. The Act's primary objectives include the prevention of hate speech terms, such as coolie (koelie):\n\n\nIn the 1957 film \"The Bridge on the River Kwai\", when his officers are ordered to participate in the construction of the bridge, British officer Col. Nicholson (Alec Guinness) declares that they will not be used as coolies by their captors. The enlisted men cheer when their social betters are excused the work.\n\"Coolie\" (1983) is an Indian film about a coolie, played by Amitabh Bachchan, who works at a railway station and has a lover. His lover's father once murdered a girl's father in an attempt to force her to marry him, but she did not give in. After 10 years of imprisonment, he flooded her village (injuring her new husband) and causing her to awaken with amnesia. It also starred Rishi Kapoor, Kader Khan, Waheeda Rehman among others.\n\nIn the racially controversial film \"The Mask of Fu Manchu\" (1932) Sir Denis Nayland Smith mentions his team's temporarily hired Chinese workers at the 27:20 mark regarding Dr. Fu Manchu, \"... his spies are all around us. I can't even trust our own coolies.\"\n\nThe film \"The Sand Pebbles\" (1966) depicts coolies working as laborers assisting American sailors aboard an American gun boat in 1926 civil war era China. The story, among many parallel story lines, involves an American Navy engineer (Steve McQueen) befriending a coolie working under his command (Mako) in the engine room. The film was nominated for 8 Oscars. Richard Attenborough won the best supporting actor Golden Globe.\n\nThe film \"Romper Stomper\" (1992) shows a white power skinhead named Hando (played by Russell Crowe) expressing distress about the idea of being a coolie in his own country. Also, the gang he directs makes frequent attacks at gangs of working class Vietnamese Australians.\n\nThe documentary film directed by Yung Chang called \"Up the Yangtze\" (2007) follows the life of a family in China that is relocated due to the flooding of the Yangtze. The daughter is sent directly from finishing middle school to work on a cruise ship for western tourists, to earn money for her family. Her father referred to himself as a \"coolie\" who used to carry bags on and off of boats.\n\nIn the 1955 film The Left Hand of God Father Carmody (Humphrey Bogart) in the testy exchange with Dr. Sigman, the mission Doc, (E G Marshall) reminds the physician he is not one of his “coolie” patients.\n\nIn \"Hell on Wheels\" (e.g., season 3, episode 1), frequent references are made to the hardworking, underpaid Chinese coolies who helped build the Transcontinental Railroad.\n\nIn the 1899 novelette \"Typhoon\" by Joseph Conrad, the captain is transporting a group of coolies in the South China Sea.\n\"White Coolies\" by Betty Jeffrey (1954) is a non-fiction account of a group of Australian nurses held captive and used as slave labour by the Japanese in WWII.\n\nThe 2014 chutney song called \"Coolie Bai Dance\" by the Indo-Guyanese singer, Romeo \"Mystic\" Nermal, is about the lifestyle of the traditional, villager \"coolie\" (Indo-Caribbean) people in Guyana and the rest of the Caribbean.\n\nIn 1938, U.S. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt used the term in one of his \"Fireside Chats\" (Number 13, 24 July 1938) while telling a story about \"Two Chinese coolies\" arguing in a crowd.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4815930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4815930", "title": "Denver Technological Center", "text": "Denver Technological Center\n\nDenver Technological Center, better known as The Denver Tech Center or DTC, is a business and economic trading center located in Colorado in the southeastern portion of the Denver Metropolitan Area, within portions of the cities of Denver and Greenwood Village. It is home to several major businesses and corporations. The DTC roughly corresponds to the area surrounding the I-25 corridor between I-225 and SH 88 (Arapahoe Road).\n\nThe DTC was established in the early 1970s. Cable companies United Cablevision, United Artists Cable, and later AT&T Broadband, all had their start in - and still have major infrastructure around - the Denver Tech Center. In the Colorado area, Bill Daniels and John C. Malone were early adopters who shepherded many standards in cable technology still used today.\n\nThe Denver Tech Center was designed by architect/planner Carl A. Worthington. In the early 1970s, investors asked Worthington to complete a conceptual master plan along a new fiber optic line south of downtown Denver. The master plan started with forty acres, with potential for an additional 800 acres. The plan has since grown to 850 acres, and over 25 million square feet of buildings have been completed.\nThe area's progress was a major reason for Denver Regional Council of Governments's hi T-REX expansion into the Denver Tech Center, which built new light rail lines connecting the Denver Tech Center to downtown Denver.\n\nOther business parks in the same vicinity are Inverness Business Park and Meridian Business Park, located farther south along I-25.\n\nThe Denver Tech Center is symbolized by the DTC Identity Monument, which sits immediately between I-25 and DTC Parkway in Greenwood Village. The monument was designed by Barber Architecture and is meant to resemble the framework of a skyscraper.\n\n"}
{"id": "55737893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55737893", "title": "Elissa Freiha", "text": "Elissa Freiha\n\nElissa Freiha (born c. 1990) is a Lebanese businesswoman and women's economic activist who is the co-founder of Womena, a group which aims to empower women by attracting angel investors to invest in new startups. With her group she specializes in funding new tech start ups in the Middle East region. Forbes named her one of the \"Inspiring Business Leaders of the UAE\".\n\nFreiha is the granddaughter of Said Freiha, an entrepreneur who founded the media publisher, Dar Assayad. Freiha grew up largely in Paris, where her father, Bassam Freiha, was employed by UNESCO. She graduated with a bachelor’s degree in global communications at the American University of Paris, and subsequently worked for a bakery in Paris and then for PR firm Flash Entertainment in Abu Dhabi after graduating. Freiha met her Womena co-founder, Chantalle Dumonceaux,while studying at the American University of Paris in 2008, and the two later set up business together. As of 2017, some 40 angel investors associated with Womena have invested more than AED 2 million in seven start-ups in the United Arab Emirates, including Zurich and New York City investors.\n\n"}
{"id": "39790169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39790169", "title": "Ernest Fisk", "text": "Ernest Fisk\n\nSir Ernest Thomas Fisk (8 August 18868 July 1965) was an English Australian businessman and entrepreneur who was the founder (1913) and later Managing Director (1916) and Chairman (1932) of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) (AWA). In 1944 was appointed Managing Director of the EMI music empire.\nOn 22 September 1918 he proved the possibility of direct radio broadcasts from the UK to Australia by receiving the first such message at his Sydney home, 'Lucania'. A memorial was erected on 14 December 1935 to celebrate the achievement.\n\nThroughout his career he held many key positions in the electronics industry. In the 1950s he predicted that color televisions would be in world-wide use within 30 years, and solar power would be used to cool and heat houses.\n\nFiskville, Victoria, about 10 kilometres south of Ballan, is named after him. From 1927 to 1969 it was the location of the shortwave wireless transmitting complex operated by AWA as part of the Imperial Wireless Chain.\n\nFisk was knighted on 11 May 1937.\n\n"}
{"id": "23279720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23279720", "title": "Expeditor", "text": "Expeditor\n\nAn expeditor is someone who facilitates a process. It is a position or role found within project management, construction, purchasing and production control. One example of this is a person in a restaurant who coordinates actions between cooks and wait staff in a restaurant, managing the flow of orders and giving real-time commands to other employees.\n\nIn a shipping logistics supply chain, an expeditor's role is primarily to look at the requirement levels in the business and fulfill the demands by either rescheduling in or rescheduling out the delivery date on the purchase order. The expeditor is also responsible for making sure there is no line stopping situation for a business. The key metrics which an expeditor influences may be - Ontime Delivery, Cash Flow Cycle and Inventory Management. An expeditor needs to be assertive and needs to know the business at high contextual levels\n\nAlso the name used for Beech 18 aircraft by British and Commonwealth air forces (1940s-50s).\n"}
{"id": "40765199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40765199", "title": "Flutura Decision Sciences and Analytics", "text": "Flutura Decision Sciences and Analytics\n\nFlutura Decision Sciences and Analytics is an Industrial Internet of things (IoT) company that focuses on machine to machine and big data analytics serving clients from manufacturing, energy and engineering industries. Its main offices are located in Palo Alto, California and has its development centre in Bengaluru, India.\n\nFlutura was co-founded by Krishnan Raman, Srikanth Muralidhara, and Derick Jose, in February 2012.\nRaman, formerly from Mindtree, became the chief executive.\nThe word 'Flutura' means butterfly in Albanian.\nFlutura developed software called Cerebra, announced by 2013.\n\nA Henkel factory in China was using Cerebra in 2016.\nThe same year, Hitachi announced it would sell the software in Japan.\nThe company announced US$7.5 million of venture capital in February 2017, led by the sovereign wealth fund of Singapore Temasek Holdings.\n"}
{"id": "2066000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2066000", "title": "Friedrich Karl Flick", "text": "Friedrich Karl Flick\n\nFriedrich Karl Flick (3 February 1927 – 5 October 2006) was a German-Austrian industrialist and billionaire.\n\nHe was born in Berlin, the youngest son of Friedrich Flick and Marie Schuss. After his studies, he worked in his father's company. In 1972, when his father died, he inherited the major part of the family business.\n\nAs the sole owner of the Friedrich Flick Industrial Holding (Industrieverwaltung), he had interests in major companies including Daimler-Benz, WR Grace, Gerling Insurance, Buderus, Dynamit Nobel, Feldmühle and others.\n\nIn 1975 he sold his part of Daimler-Benz to the Deutsche Bank for more than $ 1 billion. Major tax liabilities were avoided through \"cultivation of the political landscape\",—a process that turned into the Flick Affair in 1983 when it became apparent that about $25 million had been paid to German political parties in return for tax cuts and favorable rulings. Although Chancellor Helmut Kohl benefited from the dealings, he claimed he had \"no recollections\", while others resigned from their posts. In 1985 Flick sold off the remainder of his companies. When Deutsche Bank announced that it had bought his holdings for about $3 billion German marks, Flick retired in Austria, where he became a naturalised citizen.\n\nIn March 2006, his estimated net worth was $6.1 billion.\n\nHe married three times and had two children from his second and third marriages. At the time of his death, he was the wealthiest person living in Austria.\n\nHe died on 5 October 2006 at his villa in Auen on the Wörthersee, Austria.\n\nIn November 2008, it was reported that an oak coffin containing his remains was taken from his family's mausoleum at a cemetery at Velden am Wörther See, in what Austrian Federal Police believe may be an attempt to extort money from his widow. His widow Ingrid Flick, his third wife, inherited an estimated £4bn. She and his children are now under police guard. The body was returned in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22197508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22197508", "title": "George Mason III", "text": "George Mason III\n\nGeorge Mason III (1690March 5, 1735) was an early American planter, businessman, and statesman. Mason was the father of George Mason IV, a Founding Father of the United States.\n\nMason was born in 1690 at Chopawamsic plantation in Stafford County, Virginia. He was the eldest son of George Mason II and his first wife Mary Fowke.\n\nAt the time of his father's death in 1716, Mason was 27 and already a man of prominence in Stafford County. Like his father, Mason increased the family's property and social standing in Stafford County, and continued a tradition of leadership and public service. Also like his father, Mason served as a colonel in the Stafford County militia and represented Stafford in the House of Burgesses between 1715 and 1726. It was during his tenure as a burgess in Williamsburg that Mason met and married his wife Ann Stevens Thomson. He served as County Lieutenant of Stafford in 1719. Mason also served as sheriff of Stafford County.\n\nMason amassed enormous land holdings in Stafford, Fauquier, Prince William, and Fairfax counties in Virginia. Mason also increased his land holdings by acquiring large grants south of the Occoquan River, which were later named Woodbridge by his grandson Thomas Mason. Mason leased most of his properties out as smaller farms with their rent paid in tobacco yield. Other sources of Mason's income came from fisheries and a ferry service carrying King's Highway across the Occoquan River. Because Mason owned land on both sides of the Occoquan River, he enjoyed a monopoly on river crossings as well as on the fishing rights in Belmont Bay.\n\nIn 1716, Mason accompanied the \"Knights of the Golden Horseshoe Expedition\" led by Lt. Governor Alexander Spotswood across the Blue Ridge and into the Shenandoah Valley.\n\nMason married Ann Stevens Thomson, daughter of Stevens Thomson and his wife Dorothea, in 1721. The couple had three children:\n\n\nA few years after his marriage to Ann, Mason moved his family to Stump Neck plantation in Charles County, Maryland, relegating the Chopawamsic estate in Stafford County, Virginia, to a secondary residence.\n\nMason died in a ferry accident on 5 March 1735 on the Potomac River. Soon after his death, Mason's widow and children returned to Chopawamsic. At the time of his death, Mason owned in Stafford County alone.\n"}
{"id": "33066054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33066054", "title": "Granvia l'Hospitalet", "text": "Granvia l'Hospitalet\n\nGranvia l'Hospitalet or Granvia l'H is a district (\"Districte VII\") in the municipality of L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, a south-western suburb of the Barcelona metropolitan area.\n\nPart of Granvia L'H is part of Gran Via business center of Barcelona and directly Fira de Barcelona, second largest trade fair and exhibition centres in Europe.\n\nThe Granvia area is served by line 8 of the Barcelona Metro and FGC commuter train network, at the Europa-Fira station, and also by the bus line 79.\n"}
{"id": "55188406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55188406", "title": "Héctor Robledo Cervantes", "text": "Héctor Robledo Cervantes\n\nHéctor Robledo Cervantes is a Mexican businessman and a supporter of scouting. He has a degree in Architecture from Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico (UNAM). He has founded several construction and lifestyle companies.\n\nHe is the chairman-elect for the World Scout Foundation and has been a member of the board since 2012. He has also been the vice-president of the Interamerican Scout Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "966794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=966794", "title": "Isoelectric focusing", "text": "Isoelectric focusing\n\nIsoelectric focusing (IEF), also known as electrofocusing, is a technique for separating different molecules by differences in their isoelectric point (pI). It is a type of zone electrophoresis, usually performed on proteins in a gel, that takes advantage of the fact that overall charge on the molecule of interest is a function of the pH of its surroundings.\n\nIEF involves adding an ampholyte solution into immobilized pH gradient (IPG) gels. IPGs are the acrylamide gel matrix co-polymerized with the pH gradient, which result in completely stable gradients except the most alkaline (>12) pH values. The immobilized pH gradient is obtained by the continuous change in the ratio of \"immobilines\". An immobiline is a weak acid or base defined by its pK value.\n\nA protein that is in a pH region below its isoelectric point (pI) will be positively charged and so will migrate towards the cathode (negatively charged electrode). As it migrates through a gradient of increasing pH, however, the protein's overall charge will decrease until the protein reaches the pH region that corresponds to its pI. At this point it has no net charge and so migration ceases (as there is no electrical attraction towards either electrode). As a result, the proteins become focused into sharp stationary bands with each protein positioned at a point in the pH gradient corresponding to its pI. The technique is capable of extremely high resolution with proteins differing by a single charge being fractionated into separate bands.\n\nMolecules to be focused are distributed over a medium that has a pH gradient (usually created by aliphatic ampholytes). An electric current is passed through the medium, creating a \"positive\" anode and \"negative\" cathode end. Negatively charged molecules migrate through the pH gradient in the medium toward the \"positive\" end while positively charged molecules move toward the \"negative\" end. As a particle moves towards the pole opposite of its charge it moves through the changing pH gradient until it reaches a point in which the pH of that molecules isoelectric point is reached. At this point the molecule no longer has a net electric charge (due to the protonation or deprotonation of the associated functional groups) and as such will not proceed any further within the gel. The gradient is established before adding the particles of interest by first subjecting a solution of small molecules such as polyampholytes with varying pI values to electrophoresis.\n\nThe method is applied particularly often in the study of proteins, which separate based on their relative content of acidic and basic residues, whose value is represented by the pI. Proteins are introduced into an Immobilized pH gradient gel composed of polyacrylamide, starch, or agarose where a pH gradient has been established. Gels with large pores are usually used in this process to eliminate any \"sieving\" effects, or artifacts in the pI caused by differing migration rates for proteins of differing sizes. Isoelectric focusing can resolve proteins that differ in pI value by as little as 0.01. Isoelectric focusing is the first step in two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, in which proteins are first separated by their pI and then further separated by molecular weight through SDS-PAGE.\n\nAccording to some opinions, living eukaryotic cells perform isoelectric focusing of proteins in their interior to overcome a limitation of the rate of metabolic reaction by diffusion of enzymes and their reactants, and to regulate the rate of particular biochemical processes. By concentrating the enzymes of particular metabolic pathways into distinct and small regions of its interior, the cell can increase the rate of particular biochemical pathways by several orders of magnitude. By modification of the isoelectric point (pI) of molecules of an enzyme by, e.g., phosphorylation or dephosphorylation, the cell can transfer molecules of the enzyme between different parts of its interior, to switch on or switch off particular biochemical processes.\n\nMicrochip based electrophoresis is a promising alternative to capillary electrophoresis since it has the potential to provide rapid protein analysis, straightforward integration with other microfluidic unit operations, whole channel detection, nitrocellulose films, smaller sample sizes and lower fabrication costs.\n\nThe increased demand for faster and easy-to-use protein separation tools has accelerated the evolution of IEF towards in-solution separations. In this context, a multi-junction IEF system was developed to perform fast and gel-free IEF separations. The multi-junction IEF system utilizes a series of vessels with a capillary passing through each vessel. Part of the capillary in each vessel is replaced by a semipermeable membrane. The vessels contain buffer solutions with different pH values, so that a pH gradient is effectively established inside the capillary. The buffer solution in each vessel has an electrical contact with a voltage divider connected to a high-voltage power supply, which established electrical field along the capillary. When a sample (a mixture of peptides or proteins) is injected in the capillary, the presence of the electrical field and the pH gradient separates these molecules according to their isoelectric points. The multi-junction IEF system has been used to separate tryptic peptide mixtures for two-dimensional proteomics and blood plasma proteins from Alzheimer’s disease patients for biomarker discovery.\n"}
{"id": "15642678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15642678", "title": "Jean, Baron de Batz", "text": "Jean, Baron de Batz\n\nJean Pierre de Batz, Baron de Sainte-Croix, known as the Baron de Batz or de Bance, (26 January 1754 – 10 January 1822), was a French royalist and businessman. He was born in Goutz-les-Tartas (Gers), and died in Chadieu, near Vic-le-Comte (Puy-de-Dôme).\n\nHis life and actions in the service of Louis XVI inspired several popular novelists, including Baroness Orczy (\"Eldorado\", 1913), Rafael Sabatini (\"Scaramouche\", 1921) and more recently Juliette Benzoni (\"Le Jeu de l'amour et de la mort\" series, 1999–2000).\n\nUnder the Constituent Assembly, de Batz's reputation as a financier led to his 28 May 1790 appointment to the liquidation committee, which was responsible for clearing public accounts. It appears that de Batz conducted liquidations of fraudulent debts, sold to his friends who then reimbursed him. At the same time, he became a secret adviser to Louis XVI, and organized the financing of a secret policy implemented at the Chateau de Tuileries under Armand Marc, comte de Montmorin to defend the monarchy, which continued until at least 10 August 1792. On his own account, de Batz advanced to Louis XVI a sum exceeding 500,000 livres. His best ally was the Minister of Finance, Étienne Clavière, and under the guise of missions Clavière entrusted to him, de Batz made several voyages abroad between March 1792 and January 1793.\n\nOn January 21, 1793, de Batz tried in vain to raise the crowd in boulevard de Bonne Nouvelle to save the king from execution. Several royalists were killed, though de Batz managed to escape. He remained partially in hiding until he obtained a certificate of non-emigration in June 1793.\n\nAt the end of October 1793, fraud was uncovered in the liquidation of the French East India Company, and de Batz was named as the leader of a vast conspiracy against the fledgeling republic. According to a declaration made in prison by François Chabot, de Batz had frequently met with leaders of the Paris Commune and the National Convention, including Committee of Public Safety members Claude Basire, Julien de Toulouse and Delaunay d'Angers. Chabot also asserted that de Batz had held talks with foreign bankers including Junius Frey and his brother Emmanuel Frey (of Austria), Pierre-Jean Berthold de Prosly (of Brussels), Andres Maria de Guzman (of Spain), and Jacob Pereira (of Portugal). However, this de Batz plot was itself a conspiracy, a political-police operation which concentrated the attention of the Jacobins on the alleged dangers of de Batz and his accomplices to the Convention, with the aim of dissolving it.\n\nAt the time, de Batz was constantly traveling between the provinces and Switzerland, and learned that his friends and most of his relations had been arrested. Denunciations were gathered to build an indictment and support the imaginary conspiracy. On 14 March 1794, Hébertistes, Clootz, Pereira and Prosly were guillotined. On April 5, Georges Danton and his friends were executed with Chabot, Basire, the abbot of Espagnac, Guzman, and the Frey brothers.\n\nPolice files and de Batz's passport would later exonerate him, as de Batz was not in Paris at the time of the liquidation.\n\nReturning to France, de Batz was involved in the royalist insurrection of 5 October 1795, and imprisoned. After the Coup of 18 Fructidor (4 September 1797), he took refuge in Auvergne where he owned a castle. Discovered, he was arrested, but escaped during his transfer to Lyon and fled to Switzerland. The French Consulate had him removed from the list of emigrants and he abandoned political activism, returning to live in Auvergne.\n\nUnder the Bourbon Restoration, he was awarded the rank of maréchal de camp (field marshal) and the cross of St. Louis for his services, as well as the military command of Cantal, which was revoked after the Hundred Days period.\n\nLiving in seclusion in Chadieu, near Vic-le-Comte, he died on 10 January 1822.\n\nThe character of the double agent, a supporter of the monarchy and member of a network of Royalist agents in France and abroad whilst masquerading as a staunch Republican, is a stock character in literature set during the French Revolution. Through his activities, this character sends many revolutionaries to the guillotine, having them convicted of being anti-revolutionaries. Fictionalizations of de Batz appear in several novels:\nThere are also biographies of de Batz:\n\n"}
{"id": "20799784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20799784", "title": "John Eyre Sloane", "text": "John Eyre Sloane\n\nJohn Eyre Sloane (September 16, 1885 — July 17, 1970) was an airplane manufacturer born in South Orange, New Jersey, United States. He established one of the first airplane manufacturing plants in Long Island City, New York in 1912.\n\nHe was born on September 16, 1885. He married Thomas Edison's daughter, Madeleine, and they had four children, Thomas Edison Sloane, John Edison Sloane, Michael Edison Sloane and Peter Edison. He died in 1970.\n"}
{"id": "42892764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42892764", "title": "Korie Robertson", "text": "Korie Robertson\n\nKorie Howard Robertson (born October 24, 1973) is a reality television star on the A&E show \"Duck Dynasty\".\n\nRobertson is the daughter of John and Chrys Howard, and the daughter-in-law of Phil Robertson, founder of the Duck Commander. Her husband is Willie Robertson. Together, they have six children: John Luke, Sadie, Will, Bella, Rowdy, and Rebecca.\n\nRobertson attended Harding University in Searcy, Arkansas. In 2014, Harding University declared Willie and Korie Howard Robertson jointly as Outstanding Young Alumni.\n\nShe sang on her family's album, \"\".\n\nShe publicly stood up for her father-in-law after his controversial interview in \"GQ\" magazine.\n\nShe is a granddaughter of businessman Alton Hardy Howard and a great-niece of Alton Hardy's brother, W. L. \"Jack\" Howard, former mayor of Monroe. Alton and Jack Howard were proprietor of the former Howard Brothers Discount Stores. Another great-uncle was the Church of Christ minister V. E. Howard.\n"}
{"id": "46753830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46753830", "title": "Lenny Curry", "text": "Lenny Curry\n\nLeonard Boyd Curry (born July 19, 1970) is an American politician and businessman who is currently Mayor of Jacksonville, Florida. He assumed office on July 1, 2015, after defeating incumbent Alvin Brown in the city's 2015 mayoral election. A Republican, Curry formerly served as chairman of the Republican Party of Florida and co-founded the professional services firm ICX Group.\n\nCurry was born in Key West. He later grew up in Middleburg, Florida and graduated from Middleburg High School. Curry began his higher education at St. Johns River Community College, then transferred to the University of Florida and graduated \"summa cum laude\" with a degree in accounting. He married his wife, Molly, in 2005. They have three children: Boyd, Brook, and Bridgett.\n\nFrom 1994 to 2002, he practiced as a certified public accountant at PricewaterhouseCoopers. In 2002, he co‐founded a Jacksonville-based professional services firm, ICX Group Inc., providing finance and accounting consulting, executive recruiting, and staffing services.\n\nOn June 3, 2014, Curry filed to run in the Jacksonville mayoral election in 2015. He decided to enter the race because beginning in late 2012 and early 2013, he began hearing about \"leadership troubles\" under incumbent Democratic mayor Alvin Brown.\n\n"}
{"id": "53333538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53333538", "title": "List of cleaning products", "text": "List of cleaning products\n\nThis is a list of cleaning products and agents. Cleaning agents are substances (usually liquids, powders, sprays, or granules) used to remove dirt, including dust, stains, bad smells, and clutter on surfaces. Purposes of cleaning agents include health, beauty, removing offensive odor, and avoiding the spread of dirt and contaminants to oneself and others.\n\nDisinfectants are antimicrobial agents that are applied to the surface of non-living objects to destroy microorganisms that are living on the objects.\n\nLaundry detergent, or washing powder, is a type of detergent (cleaning agent) that is added for cleaning laundry.\n\nIn chemistry, a soap is a salt of a fatty acid. Household uses for soaps include washing, bathing, and other types of housekeeping, where soaps act as surfactants, emulsifying oils to enable them to be carried away by water.\n\n"}
{"id": "43132893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43132893", "title": "Low Yow Chuan", "text": "Low Yow Chuan\n\nTan Sri Low Yow Chuan (刘耀全) (born 1933) is a Malaysian real estate and property developer. Low Yow Chuan snd his four children own the Federal Hotel, which includes Hotel Capitol, Low Yat Plaza and the Bintang Fairlane Residences, as well as other area properties.\n\nYow Chuan was Board Member at Asia Pacific Land until 2002. After retiring from the role, he continues to serve as Group Adviser for the company. As of 2006, the executive chairman position was held by his eldest son Low Gee Tat, while his other three children hold director positions.\n\nHe was born to a Chinese father, Low Yat, who was in 1957 built Malaya's first international class hotel, Federal Hotel in Kuala Lumpur. Yow Chuan’s father, the late Tan Sri Low Yat founded Low Yat Construction Company Sdn. Bhd. in 1947.\n\nYow Chuan studied architecture at the University of New South Wales, but in 1957, before he managed to graduate, he returned home to help with his father's business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48707818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48707818", "title": "Manuel Cidre", "text": "Manuel Cidre\n\nManuel \"Manolo\" Cidre Miranda (born 1953) is a Cuban-born Puerto Rican businessman and politician who became, on December 1, 2015, an official candidate for Governor of Puerto Rico. He lost the election to Ricardo Rosselló.\n\nManuel Cidre arrived in Puerto Rico from his native Cuba at a young age, first living in the northern coastal city of Arecibo. In his new country, he eventually dedicated himself to the business world, opening, in 1978, along with brother Guillermo Cidre, a company in Bayamon named \"Los Cidrines\", which sells bakery goods and bread.\n\nHis commitment to Puerto Rico led him to serve multiple community and philanthropic organizations in Puerto Rico:\nAt the administrative level and as a business and civic leader, he has excelled in:\n\nHis work has been recognized by community and professional organizations such as:\n\n• \"Premio al Buen Vecino\" - American Red Cross\n\n• Distinguished Citizen Award -Boys Scouts of América\n\n• Corporate Social Responsibility Award – \"Asociación de Mercadeo, Industria y Distribución de Alimentos M.I.D.A.\"\n\n• Citizen of the Year: Private Sector – Caribbean Business\n\n• Ten Top Business Leader – Caribbean Business (2011,2012, 2013, 2014)\n\n• Hall of Fame -Ten Top Business Leader 2015\n\n• Business Achievement Award – Pontificia Universidad Católica de Puerto Rico\n\n• Zenit Award 2010 Citizen of the Year – \"Cámara de Comercio de Puerto Rico\"\n\n• Héctor Jiménez Juarbe Award – \"Asociación de Industriales de Puerto Rico\"\n\n• Special Award of the President– \"Cámara de Comercio de Ponce y Sur de PR\"\n\n• Distinguished Entrepreneur Award – \"Asociación Hombres y Mujeres de Empresa\"\n\n• Excellence in Private Enterprise – \"Compañía Fomento Económico de Puerto Rico\"\n\n• Entrepreneurship Award – Ernest & Young Entrepreneur of the Year\n\n• Manufacturer of the Year – \"Asociación de Mercadeo, Industria y Distribución de Alimento M.I.D.A.\"\n\n• \"Industrial del Año\" – \"Asociación de Industriales de Puerto Rico\"\n\nManuel Cidre has 4 children and 6 grandchildren. He is married to Anabelle Colón.\n\nCidre ran for Governor of Puerto Rico during the Puerto Rican general election, 2016 as an independent candidate. Asked by Carmen Jovet which of the three main ideologies in Puerto Rico (statehood, free association or independence) he identified with, he declined to identify himself with any of them but commented that he is against Puerto Rico's status as a colony. In the debate of Young in Telemundo he said will not support the statehood.\n"}
{"id": "53130533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53130533", "title": "Manuel Jove", "text": "Manuel Jove\n\nManuel Jove Capellán (born July 1941) is a Spanish billionaire, and the founder of property development company Fadesa.\n\nJove is married, with two children, and lives in La Coruña, Spain.\n"}
{"id": "7069363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7069363", "title": "Merchant Shipping (Scottish Fishing Boats) Act 1920", "text": "Merchant Shipping (Scottish Fishing Boats) Act 1920\n\nThe Merchant Shipping (Scottish Fishing Boats) Act 1920 (10 & 11 Geo. V c. 39) was an Act of Parliament concerning fishing in Scotland. It became law on 16 August 1920.\n\nIt provided that Part IV of the Merchant Shipping Act 1894 would apply to Scotland. The Act came into force from 1 October 1920. It was repealed by the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20552524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20552524", "title": "Micro-pulling-down", "text": "Micro-pulling-down\n\nThe micro-pulling-down (µ-PD) method is a crystal growth technique based on continuous transport of the melted substance through micro-channel(s) made in a crucible bottom. Continuous solidification of the melt is progressed on a liquid/solid interface positioned under the crucible. In a steady state, both the melt and the crystal are pulled-down with a constant (but generally different) velocity.\n\nMany different types of crystal are grown by this technique, including YAlO, Si, Si-Ge, LiNbO, \nα-AlO, YO, ScO, \nLiF, CaF, BaF, etc.\n\nStandard routine procedure used in the growth of most of µ-PD crystals is well developed. The general stages of the growths include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36284646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36284646", "title": "Mobile Aeroplex at Brookley", "text": "Mobile Aeroplex at Brookley\n\nThe Mobile Aeroplex at Brookley is an industrial complex and airport in Mobile, Alabama which lies adjacent to the western shore of Mobile Bay. It is owned and operated by the Mobile Airport Authority. It was known by a variety of names until being renamed in 2010 as the Brookley Aeroplex. In the fall of 2013, the Brookley Aeroplex was rebranded as the Mobile Aeroplex at Brookley.\n\nThe aeroplex was first developed specifically for aviation with the establishment of Bates Field in 1929. The City of Mobile acquired the land from then Mayor of Mobile, Cecil F. Bates. Bates Field was Mobile's first municipal airport. The United States Army Air Corps purchased the airfield in 1938 and established the Brookley Army Air Field, later renamed Brookley Air Force Base in 1948. The name Bates Field was then reused for the new Mobile municipal airport located northwest of the Brookley site, known today as the Mobile Regional Airport. Brookley Army Air Field employed 17,000 civilians during World War II. After the end of the war, the Brookley base was used as an Air Materiel Command. The closure of the base was announced in 1964, with operations officially ceasing in June 1969. This left a civilian workforce of approximately 13,000 people, ten percent of the local workforce, without jobs. It represented the largest base closure in United States history up to that time.\n\nThe site was returned to the city after the base closure. The city established the Mobile Airport Authority in 1972 for advisement on how to manage Brookley. It was formally created as an independent authority by the Alabama Legislature in 1982, charged with the management of both Brookley and the Mobile Regional Airport. The site was renamed Brookley Complex at this time. A new terminal building was completed in 1986. Attempting to capitalize off the site's unique mix of road, rail, water, and air transportation, the authority began a campaign during the late 1980s to recruit the aviation and aerospace industries to Brookley. This mission has continued to the present.\n\nA major component of the aeroplex is the Mobile Downtown Airport, a general aviation facility. The airport elevation is , and it has a control tower and two asphalt/concrete runways:\n\n\nThe Mobile Aeroplex at Brookley is the largest industrial and transportation complex in the region, with approximately 70 companies employing about 3600. Notable tenants at Brookley include Airbus North America Engineering (Airbus Military North America's facilities are at the Mobile Regional Airport), Continental Motors, and ST Aerospace Mobile. ST Aerospace Mobile serves as a maintenance provider for Delta Air Lines (Airbus A-319/320), FedEx Express, American Airlines, and United Airlines. FedEx Express also uses the complex for three daily cargo flights from Memphis, Tennessee.\n\nThe site is spread over . The complex is home to many aerospace industries and features direct connections with Mobile Bay via its own docks, CSX railway, and with Interstate 10. It is included in Mobile's Foreign Trade Zone 82, a zone that provides special customs procedures to U.S. plants engaged in international trade-related activities.\n\nOn February 29, 2008, the United States Air Force announced that a partnership between Northrop Grumman and EADS North America had won first round of a contract to produce the new KC-45 aerial refueling tanker to replace the Boeing KC-135 Stratotanker. The contract would have been worth up to $40 billion with 179 planes to be delivered over the succeeding ten to fifteen years, with production of these aircraft at Brookley.\n\nFollowing a formal protest from Boeing, the competition was reopened. Although Northrop Grumman declined to bid (stating that it considered the RFP to be too heavily weighted in favor of Boeing and its planned Boeing 767 entry), on April 20, 2010, EADS announced it was re-entering the competition on a stand-alone basis, and intended to enter a bid with the KC-45 with final assembly at Brookley. EADS also announced plans to move its Airbus A330-200F freighter assembly line from France to Mobile as well if it got the contract. This time, however, Boeing won the contract in February 2011 and EADS did not contest the result.\n\nBeginning on June 27, 2012, \"The New York Times\" and other news outlets reported that Airbus, a subsidiary of EADS, had decided to locate a new factory in Mobile for the manufacture of the Airbus A320. The initial reports were confirmed by the \"Press-Register\", which reported on June 30, 2012 that the deal had been approved by Airbus. The plans include a $600 million factory at the Brookley Aeroplex for the assembly of the A319, A320 and A321 aircraft, all part of the Airbus A320 family. It could employ up to 1,000 full-time workers when at full capacity. Construction began in the spring of 2013, with it becoming operable by 2015 and producing 40 to 50 aircraft per year by 2017. The plan was formally announced by Airbus CEO Fabrice Brégier from the Mobile Convention Center on July 2, 2012. A ground breaking ceremony for the factory was held on April 8, 2013.\n\nAirbus Mobile officially opened on September 14, 2015, covering one million square feet on 53 acres of flat grassland.\nOn October 16, 2017, Airbus announced a partnership with Bombardier Aerospace, taking over a majority share of the Bombardier CSeries airliner program. As a result of this partnership, Airbus plans to open an assembly line for CSeries aircraft in Mobile, particularly to serve the US market. This effort may allow the companies to circumvent high countervailing duties on the CSeries family. The CSeries was renamed the Airbus A220 on 10 July 2018; deliveries from Mobile are expected to start in 2020, at an initial rate of four aircraft per month.\n"}
{"id": "8389180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8389180", "title": "New York Disability Benefits Law", "text": "New York Disability Benefits Law\n\nThe New York Disability Benefits Law (DBL) is article 9 of the Workers' Compensation Law (which is itself chapter 67 of the Consolidated Laws of New York) and creates a state disability insurance program designed to provide employees with some level of income replacement in case of disability caused off-the-job.\n\nTo be required to have DBL coverage for its employees, a company must employ at least one person besides the proprietor within the state of New York. Full-time employees are eligible for coverage after four consecutive weeks of work, and part-time employees are eligible after their twenty-fifth day of employment.\n\nOut of state employees can be covered under some DBL policies, but the employer must have some New York employees in order to attain DBL coverage.\n\nDBL insurance groups are divided up into those covering fewer than 50 employees and those with 50 or more employees.\n\nEmployers with less than 50 employees are written at rates which are fixed for all groups, but that vary from one insurance carrier to another. Rates for employers with less than 50 employees are usually written as a dollar cost per employee, per month. These rates are further divided into separate male and female rates (which are higher than the male rates), to reflect the impact that pregnancy has on DBL claims. Many carriers offer a discounted rate for employers willing to pay all of their premium at the beginning of the year. If a carrier offers this option, the rate will be expressed as a dollar amount per male per year, and per female per year.\n\nCarriers are prevented by the state Worker's compensation Board from raising or lowering their rates for groups with fewer than 50 lives. If a carrier's overall loss ratio (claims paid divided by premium) for their groups with less than 50 employees is too low, then the Worker's compensation Board may force the carrier to lower their rates for all of the groups with fewer than 50 covered lives.\n\nEmployers with 50 or more employees are not given fixed rates, but will request a quote from various insurance carriers through an insurance agent or broker. These rates can vary considerably and are based on the overall risk factors of the case. Carriers are permitted to review these groups and increase or decrease the rates based on the claims paid to the group and the premiums that the group pays to the carrier. These reviews are generally conducted quarterly, and the carriers will issue letters to the policyholders and their insurance brokers indicating the proposed changes in rate.\n\nRates for cases with more than 50 employees are usually given as a dollar amount per employee, per month (called a \"per capita rate\") with no division into male- and female-specific rates, or as a dollar amount per $100 of covered payroll. Other, less common rate structures include offering a dollar amount per male and per female (as with the groups with less than 50 employees), and offering a dollar amount per $10 of benefit.\n\nAs of 2006, DBL offers a benefit of 50% of weekly wages to a maximum of $170 per week of benefit. The normal waiting period for DBL benefits to start is seven days, and benefits can extend to a maximum duration of 26 weeks.\n\nIt is possible for carriers to offer benefits that extend beyond the statutory DBL coverage known as \"enhanced\" or \"enriched\" DBL. This extended coverage usually takes the form of a higher maximum benefit, but can also include shorter waiting periods or a longer maximum duration. Carriers take these factors into account when underwriting DBL coverage, and so enriched DBL is often more costly than statutory DBL coverage.\n\nAn employer is allowed, but not required, to collect contributions from its employees to offset the cost of providing benefits. An employee's contribution is computed at the rate of one-half of one percent of his/her wages, but no more than sixty cents a week (WCL §209).\n\nIn 2016, Governor Cuomo signed into law the Paid Family Leave policy. Starting January 1, 2018, the New York State Paid Family Leave Program provides New Yorkers job-protected, paid leave to bond with a new child, care for a loved one with a serious health condition or to help relieve family pressures when someone is called to active military service. Coverage for this benefit will generally be provided as a rider to the DBL insurance policy. For employers who are not required to have DBL coverage, PFL coverage may be obtained on a stand-alone basis. (NYCRR 380).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30866781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30866781", "title": "Nick Bruty", "text": "Nick Bruty\n\nNicholas Anthony Bruty (born 1969 in Longfield, Kent), known as Nick Bruty, is a British video game designer and entrepreneur.\n\nHe was raised and educated in Livingston, Scotland. He made his first step into video games when he was 15, working for company SoftStone with his friend David Quinn. Bruty had done some projects for SoftStone when it went bust in 1984. In 1987 Bruty joined Probe Software, where he met another notable industry figure David Perry. Together they formed a team, with Bruty as artist and Perry as programmer, making arcade classics such as , Savage, Overlord and .\n\nIn 1992 Perry and Bruty went to the American division of Virgin Games where they worked on Global Gladiators, Cool Spot, Aladdin and The Jungle Book. In 1993 David Perry formed Shiny Entertainment in California and Bruty and some members of Virgin Games followed in after finishing The Jungle Book. While at Shiny, Bruty led the art direction on cult platformers Earthworm Jim and its sequel, and in the Special Edition of Earthworm Jim the level \"Big Bruty\" was named after him. The finest hour of Bruty in Shiny came with 1997 hit shooter MDK. He was responsible for the idea of the game itself, the characters, and its humorous style.\n\nAfter MDK Bruty left Shiny and formed video game company Planet Moon Studios with other ex-Shiny employees Tim Williams and Scott Guest. The company since made notable , Armed and Dangerous (influenced by MDK) and Infected. In 2011 Planet Moon closed and the company's staff was acquired by online games developer Bigpoint Games.\n\nIn March 2011 Bruty and ex-Planet Moon Studios lead programmer Richard Sun formed new game company Rogue Rocket Games.\n\nIn March 2014 Bruty and Rogue Rocket Games announced First Wonder, a spiritual sequel to Giants: Citizen Kabuto, and started a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign for it on September 25, 2015. However the campaign was not funded and the project was canceled.\n\nHe lives in San Francisco, California, where Rogue Rocket Games HQ is placed.\n\n"}
{"id": "39990201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39990201", "title": "Nick Loeb", "text": "Nick Loeb\n\nNicholas Mears Loeb (born August 2, 1975) is the son of John Langeloth Loeb Jr., and scion of both the Loeb family (founders of the brokerage firm Loeb, Rhoades & Co.) and Lehman family (founders of the global financial services firm Lehman Brothers).\n\nLoeb is the son of John Langeloth Loeb Jr. and his second wife, Meta Martindell Harrsen. His father was Jewish and his mother an Episcopalian, the faith into which he was baptized. His father is a former United States Ambassador to Denmark (1981–1983) and served as a Delegate to the United Nations (1984). He has one half-sister from his father's first marriage to Nina Sundby, Alexandra Loeb Driscoll. His uncle was billionaire Canadian businessman Edgar Bronfman Sr. (who was married to his father's sister). His parents divorced when he was one year old and he was raised by his father on the Upper East Side of New York City where he attended the Collegiate School and Loomis Chaffee School. He also spent three years in Denmark where his father was posted. In 1996, his mother killed her third husband, Jeff Bauer, and then killed herself. In 1998, Loeb graduated with a B.A. in management and finance from Tulane University.\n\nAfter college, he worked for Mike Nichols on the film \"Primary Colors\" at his uncle's studio Universal Studios and then produced and had a featured role in a movie called \"The Smokers\" starring Dominique Swain, Thora Birch, and Busy Philipps. He was also a producer (along with Barbra Streisand) for the documentary PBS series \"The Living Century\". He moved to Florida and worked with Lehman Brothers and later founded Carbon Solutions America, which provides climate change advisory services to corporate and government clients. Here, he claims to have helped to produce the country’s first carbon neutral wine.\n\nIn 2005, Loeb lost the Delray Beach, Florida city commission race. In 2008, he served as finance co-chairman for Rudy Giuliani’s 2008 presidential run. In 2009, running as a Republican with the support of Giuliani, he abandoned a state Senate campaign because he was going through a divorce from his first wife who had just been arrested for a DUI. He used his own money to compensate all the contributors to his campaign. In 2011, Loeb decided against running for the United States Senate due to health issues stemming from severe injuries incurred in a car accident in 2010. Loeb describes himself as a \"Teddy Roosevelt Republican.\"\n\nIn 2006 he formed Loeb's Foods and in April 2011, he founded the Crunchy Condiment Company, which sells Onion Crunch, a fried onion topping, with products being sold in over 17,000 locations.\n\nLoeb was married to Swedish model Anna Pettersson but they later divorced. Loeb was engaged to \"Modern Family\" star Sofía Vergara. On May 23, 2014, the engagement was called off.\n\nOn April 29, 2015, \"The New York Times\" published an op-ed written by Loeb in which he argued that he should be allowed to unilaterally use the frozen embryos he created via in-vitro fertilization with Vergara, despite having previously signed an agreement stipulating that nothing could be done to the embryos without the consent of both of them stating \"Give them the right to live.\" Vergara's attorney has stated that Vergara wants the embryos to remain frozen. Loeb argues that the agreement – which did not expressly state what would happen to the embryos if the couple separated, a requirement under California law – should be voided. In 2016, Loeb dropped his case, though it was refiled the day after in Louisiana with the embryos as plaintiffs. In August 2017, a Louisiana Judge dismissed the case with the argument that the court had no jurisdiction over the embryos, which were conceived in California.\n\n"}
{"id": "292280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292280", "title": "Perforation", "text": "Perforation\n\nA perforation is a small hole in a thin material or web. There is usually more than one perforation in an organized fashion, where all of the holes are called a \"perforation\". The process of creating perforations is called perforating, which involves puncturing the workpiece with a tool.\n\nPerforations are usually used to allow easy separation of two sections of the material, such as allowing paper to be torn easily along the line. Packaging with perforations in paperboard or plastic film is easy for consumers to open. Other purposes include filtrating fluids, sound deadening, allowing light or fluids to pass through, and to create an aesthetic design.\n\nVarious applications include plastic films to allow the packages to breathe, medical films, micro perforated plate and sound and vapor barriers.\n\nRotary pinned perforation rollers are precision tools that can be used to perforate a wide variety of materials. The pins or needles can be used cold or heated. Cold perforation tools include needle punches.\n\nThere are a handful of manufacturers that specialize in hot and cold needle perforation tooling and equipment. In materials that have elasticity this can result in a \"volcano\" hole that is preferred in many applications.\n\nPinned rollers can be made from a variety of materials, including plastic, steel, and aluminum.\n\nIn more brittle films, cold perforation can cause slitting rather than creating a round hole, which can jeopardize the material's integrity under pressure. The solution to this is often heating the pin; i.e. hot pin perforation. Hot perforation melts a hole in the material, causing a reinforced ring around the hole. Hot needle perforation also assists when high density pin patterns are utilized, as the heat aids the perforation of the material.\n\nDie and punch sets can be used for thicker materials or materials that require large holes; this process is the most common for metalworking. The workpiece is sheared by pressing (either by machine or hand tool) the punch through the workpiece and into the die. The middle section of the workpiece is scrap; commonly known as the chad in paper and similar materials. The punch and die are shaped to produce the desired shaped hole. The clearance (the distance between the outside circumference of the punch and the inner circumference of the die) must be properly maintained to ensure a clean cut. Burrs are produced on the side of the workpiece that is against the die.\n\nCommon applications are fruit and vegetable bags, hole punching and ticket punching.\n\nLaser cutting can place many precise holes in a web. Laser perforations look similar in many respects to hot needle perforations. However, laser systems are expensive. The big advantage of laser perforation is the consistency of the hole size, compared to mechanical perforation. This is very important in modified atmosphere packaging for fresh produce. The laser perforation is often carried out on roll slitting machines (slitter rewinder) as the printed material is slit down to the finished roll size.\n\nPerforation frequently refers to the practice of creating a long series of holes or slits so that paper or plastics can be torn more easily along a given line: this is used in easy-open packaging. Since the creation of perforation devices in the 1840s and 1850s, it has seen use in several areas.\n\nPostage stamps are one common application of this, where small round holes are cut in lines to create individual pieces. Perforations on stamps are rather large, in the order of a millimeter, in comparison other perforated materials often have smaller holes.\n\nIt is common for cheque-books, notebooks and legal pads to have perforations making it easier to tear out individual pages or leafs. Perforation is used in ways to separate loose leaf (or even a form of graph paper from a ringed binder). A fine perforation next to the rings allows the page to be separated from the book with no confetti.\n\nScrewcaps on glass or plastic bottles are sealed with a ring at the bottom of the cap attached by perforation. Twisting the cap has the effect of rupturing the material between the perforations and indicating that the original seal has been broken.\nThe edges of film stock are perforated to allow it to be moved precise distances at a time continuously. Similarly, punched cards for use in looms and later in computers input and output devices in some cases were perforated to ensure correct positioning of the card in the device, and to encode information.\n\nPerforation of steel strips is used in the manufacture of some zesters and rasps.\n\nHistorically, perforation patterns other than linear were used to mark stamps. A series of patents had been issued in the late 19th Century for perforation machines to be used on rail lines for ticketing. Libraries and private collections used similar perforating stamps to mark ownership of books. End sheets, title pages, and image plates were punched with the namesake of the collection. Today, similarly elaborate perforation patterns continue to be used in orienteering.\n\nBread bags for some bread often have micro-perforations in the plastic, which is supposed to keep the bread fresh by releasing excess moisture. Similarly, bags of concrete use small perforations to allow air to escape while they are being filled.\n\n"}
{"id": "47113160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47113160", "title": "RW3 Technologies", "text": "RW3 Technologies\n\nRW3 Technologies is a software company that provides SaaS field sales, survey, and reporting applications for the consumer packaged goods (CPG) industry. It is headquartered in the Bay Area of California.\n\nRW3 Technologies was founded in the Bay Area by Bruce Nagle in 1992. The company's primary focus was to streamline daily data entry processes for the sales industry.\n\nIn 1992, RW3 introduced one of the first Land-Line CPG broker sales systems that allowed for mobile data entry. It was initially used in food brokerage, though eventually expanded to include functionality for the consumer packaged goods industry.\n\nIn 2000, the company expanded its business model to include business-to-business account management. \n\nIn 2010, the company began development of their first general SaaS product application since the late 1990s; the SaaS application called InStore Mobile (now MarketCheck) was released in 2011. The in-store survey application allows for two-way communication between the account rep and broker, allowing organizations to improve and track retail conditions.\n\nIn 2013, RW3 released the BI Suite, a business intelligence environment that enables rganizations to create views across departments and utilize multiple data sources to align sales strategies.\n\nIn 2014 Smartcall was launched and marketed to the CPG industry. The application enables field sales reps to conduct traditional store calls and manage sales routes. It is packaged with MarketCheck into their InStore Execution Suite, providing retail execution and monitoring applications for the consumer goods industry.\n\nRW3 offers four SaaS products for the retail, wholesale, and B2B industries:\n\n\nRW3 serves three primary markets:\n\n"}
{"id": "3117750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3117750", "title": "Rational egoism", "text": "Rational egoism\n\nRational egoism (also called rational selfishness) is the principle that an action is rational if and only if it maximizes one's self-interest. The view is a normative form of egoism. It is distinct from psychological egoism (according to which people are \"motivated\" only to act in their own self-interest) and ethical egoism (that moral agents \"ought\" only to do what is in their own self-interest).\n\nRational egoism was embodied by Russian author Nikolay Chernyshevsky in the 1863 book \"What Is to Be Done?\". Chernyshevsky's standpoint was ultimately socialistic, and was criticised by Fyodor Dostoyevsky in the 1864 book \"Notes from Underground\".\n\nEnglish philosopher Henry Sidgwick discussed rational egoism in his book \"The Methods of Ethics\", first published in 1872. A method of ethics is \"any rational procedure by which we determine what individual human beings 'ought' – or what it is 'right' for them – to do, or seek to realize by voluntary action\". Sidgwick considers three such procedures, namely, rational egoism, dogmatic intuitionism, and utilitarianism. Rational egoism is the view that, if rational, \"an agent regards quantity of consequent pleasure and pain to himself alone important in choosing between alternatives of action; and seeks always the greatest attainable surplus of pleasure over pain\".\n\nSidgwick found it difficult to find any persuasive reason for preferring rational egoism over utilitarianism. Although utilitarianism can be provided with a rational basis and reconciled with the morality of common sense, rational egoism appears to be an equally plausible doctrine regarding what we have most reason to do. Thus we must \"admit an ultimate and fundamental contradiction in our apparent intuitions of what is Reasonable in conduct; and from this admission it would seem to follow that the apparently intuitive operation of Practical Reason, manifested in these contradictory judgments, is after all illusory\".\n\nThe author and philosopher Ayn Rand also discusses a theory that she called 'rational egoism'. She holds that it is both irrational and immoral to act against one's self-interest. Thus, her view is a conjunction of both rational egoism (in the standard sense) and ethical egoism, because according to Objectivist philosophy, egoism cannot be properly justified without an epistemology based on reason:\n\nHer book \"The Virtue of Selfishness\" (1964) explains the concept of rational egoism in depth. According to Rand, a rational man holds his own life as his highest value, rationality as his highest virtue, and his happiness as the final purpose of his life.\n\nConversely, Rand was sharply critical of the ethical doctrine of altruism:\n\nTwo objections to rational egoism are given by the English philosopher Derek Parfit, who discusses the theory at length in \"Reasons and Persons\" (1984). First, from the rational egoist point of view, it is rational to contribute to a pension scheme now, even though this is detrimental to one's present interests (which are to spend the money now). But it seems equally reasonable to maximize one's interests now, given that one's reasons are not only relative to him, but to him as he is now (and not his future self, who is argued to be a \"different\" person). Parfit also argues that since the connections between the present mental state and the mental state of one's future self may decrease, it is not plausible to claim that one should be indifferent between one's present and future self.\n\nThe \"selfish gene\" model of evolution suggests that human (and animal) behaviors that seem altruistic are actually selfish, if viewed from the perspective of genes/phenotypes. People help each other \"selflessly\" because copies of their own genes also exist in others, so behaviors that help the genes survive are selected for, with the altruistic drive decreasing with genetic distance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1125149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1125149", "title": "Reynolds Group Holdings", "text": "Reynolds Group Holdings\n\nReynolds Group Holdings is an American packaging company with roots in the former Reynolds Metals Company, which was the second-largest aluminum company in the United States, and the third-largest in the world. Reynolds Metals was acquired by Alcoa in June 2000.\nReynolds Metals became known for the consumer product Reynolds Wrap, as well as for developing and promoting new uses for aluminum. Its RV \"Aluminaut\" submarine was operated by Reynolds Submarine Services Corporation.\n\nIt was headquartered for most of its existence in Richmond, Virginia, and after 1958 in the Modernist style Reynolds Metals Company International Headquarters built there.\n\nThe Reynolds Metals Company was founded in 1919 as the U.S. Foil Company in Louisville, Kentucky by Richard S. Reynolds, Sr., nephew of tobacco king R. J. Reynolds. Initially, the new company supplied lead and tin foil wrappers to cigarette and candy companies. In 1924, U.S. Foil purchased the manufacturer of Eskimo Pies, which were wrapped in foil. In 1928, Reynolds purchased Robertshaw Thermostat, Fulton Sylphon, and part of Beechnut Foil, adding them to U.S. Foil to create Reynolds Metals. In 1931 the company headquarters was moved to New York City and in 1938 the headquarters was moved again to Richmond, Virginia.\n\nThe company began producing aluminum foil for packaging in 1926. Reynolds Metals created the first high-speed, gravure-printed foil, aluminum bottle labels, heat-sealed foil bags for foods and foil-laminated building insulation paper. In 1940 Reynolds Metals began mining bauxite (aluminum ore) in Bauxite, Arkansas and opened its first aluminum plant near Sheffield, Alabama, the following year. In 1947, the company released Reynolds Wrap Aluminum Foil. Reynolds Metals pioneered the development of aluminum siding in 1945, and Richard S. Reynolds began predicting a growing demand for additional aluminum during peacetime. He believed new aluminum-producing facilities would need to be built to meet demand. Reynolds Metals Company leased, and later bought, six government defense plants that were up for disposal. Reynolds later expanded into non aluminum products such as plastics and precious metals, introducing Reynolds Plastic Wrap in 1982.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the sense of aluminum's utility expanded to include its ornamental characteristics. By repurposing military by-products into consumer goods, aluminum was now being marketed for its decorative appeal as well, creating a product of both functional and eye-catching qualities. Reynolds advertised aluminum for its multi-faceted property, now reaching areas of fashion, home improvement, and architecture. Reynolds marketed aluminum foil as gift wrap, aluminum yarn for Vogue dress patterns, and even extended their advertising strategy to include wrapping their office headquarters in aluminum.\n\nFour sons of founder Richard S. Reynolds, William Gray Reynolds, Richard S. Reynolds, Jr., David P. Reynolds, and J. Louis Reynolds, were all part of the running of the business. Richard S. Reynolds, Jr. succeeded his father as president in 1948 and under his leadership, the company underwent a major expansion with operations extended to countries around the world such as Venezuela and the Philippines. In 1976 David P. Reynolds, also known for his involvement in Thoroughbred horse racing, took over as president. He was the last member of his family to head the company and would retire as chairman.\n\nReynolds Metals developed other, less well-known products. Not all became commercially viable, such as an aluminum bus developed with Rohr Industries, and other aluminum motor vehicles. The aluminum vehicles were surpassed in weight and cost by steel, plastics and fiberglass. However, when Reynolds Metals developed the world's first aluminum submarine, the \"Aluminaut\", the experimental product participated in a key rescue. In 1969, \"Aluminaut\" rescued \"Alvin (DSV-2)\". Aluminaut's assistance enabled Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution to continue operating its submersible. Alvin's work continues 45 years later.\n\nBy 1991, Reynolds Metals employed 30,800 workers at more than 100 operations in 20 countries, including 64 plants in the United States, and had a total production capacity of more than 1 million tons of aluminum and aluminum products. The company was acquired by Alcoa on May 3, 2000 to become the largest aluminum company in the United States.\n\nOn January 21, 2008 Alcoa sold its consumer unit to Rank Group Ltd. Rank's owner, New Zealand billionaire Graeme Hart, renamed Alcoa's former unit the Reynolds Packaging Group. Hart merged his other packaging companies into Reynolds to create Reynolds Group Holdings.\n\nIn an initiative led by Paul D. Thomas, Reynolds Packaging Group chief executive officer and a former Alcoa executive, on September 21, 2008, Reynolds announced that one of the foil plants that produced Reynolds Wrap, in downtown Richmond, Virginia, would be closed and foil operations moved to Louisville, Kentucky, where Reynolds Wrap first was produced. A small portion of the spooling operation from the Richmond Foil plant was moved to the Reynolds plant in Grove City, Pennsylvania, in early 2010. Hart later closed five other plants within Reynolds. As a reflection of the recessionary times, salaries were frozen and salaried employees were not given pay raises. Union employees with fixed compensation contracts did receive incentive compensation. In early 2010 all pay was unfrozen. Salaried employees have since received pay adjustments.\n\nThe former Reynolds Metals Company International Headquarters building is in Henrico County near Richmond, Virginia. Built in 1958, is a Modernist building designed by the architect Gordon Bunshaft of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. During its use by Reynolds, the Executive Office Building was known as Reynolds EXO. It was named to the National Register of Historic Places, one of the rare mid−20th century buildings on the list. Making extensive use of aluminum, down to threads in the carpeting, it is now owned by the University of Richmond and serves as the worldwide headquarters of Altria Group.\n\nReynolds Wrap was first made by a Reynolds Metals Company division, Reynolds Packaging, a business created to supply aluminum foil for packaging tobacco. When Alcoa purchased Reynolds Metals, it shed some non-metals packaging and printing businesses but preserved the Reynolds consumer brand, as well as the Reynolds Kitchens, which are still across the street from the former Reynolds headquarters building. Alcoa's Reynolds division was a leader in household baking and cooking products, which included Cut-Rite Wax Paper.\n\nReynolds published cookbooks such as \"Outdoor Cooking with Reynolds Wrap\" (1950) and \"Casual Cooking\" (1954) in an attempt to promote the sales of Reynolds Wrap.\n\nIn 1958, the company launched the \"Designs for Giving\" campaign, in which professional artists and designers were hired to create special patterns for gift wrapping. Designs included \"Birds and Bees\" for baby showers, \"Born Lucky, Born Rich\" for birthdays, and \"Flight of Fancy\" for weddings or Christmas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25817862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25817862", "title": "Robin Chan (businessman)", "text": "Robin Chan (businessman)\n\nRobin Chan Yau-hing, GBM, GBS, JP (born 1929, Chiuyang, Swatow, Kwangtung, Republic of China) also known as Chen Youqing (; ; ), or Rabin Sophonpanich (; ) is the eldest son of Chin Sophonpanich (founder and former president of Bangkok Bank), and serves as the Chairman of the Asia Financial Group. He has two son, Stephen Tan & Bernard Chan, who are Executive Director and President of the Asia Financial Group and its main subsidiary, Asia Insurance respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "49332068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49332068", "title": "Sabih al-Masri", "text": "Sabih al-Masri\n\nSabih Taher Darwish al-Masri is a Jordanian-Palestinian businessman. He is the founder and chairman of Arab Supply and Trading Company (Astra Group). He is also the chairman of Zara Investment Holding, Astra Industries, Paltel Corporation and Arab Bank, and a founder of the Palestine Securities Exchange (PSE).\n\nHe is the cousin of Munib al-Masri.\n\nAl-Masri has a degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Texas.\n\nAl-Masri co-founded Zara Investment Holding in 1994.\n"}
{"id": "11732776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11732776", "title": "Samuel Herbert Pearse", "text": "Samuel Herbert Pearse\n\nSamuel Herbert Pearse, F.R.C.I. (born November 20, 1865) was a pioneer Nigerian shipper and produce exporter of Sierra Leonean and Egba heritage. He established the first Hotel in Lagos in 1907. He was also a member and secretary of the Lagos branch of the Anti-Slavery and Aborigines Protection Society.\n\nHe was born on November 20, 1865 to the family of Reverend R. Pearse of the Church Missionary Society. He attended C.M.S. Grammar School, Lagos for secondary education and started work as an apprentice in 1883. In 1888, he teamed up with Sierra Leonean businessman, I. Thompson and the two began trading in Lagos and London. However, both men parted ways in 1894. Pearse soon started his own trading account in Calabar and Lagos and also became an agent for the African and Gold Coast Trading Company. He made extensive wealth trading in palm produce from the Old Calabar province as one of the pioneer Nigerian exporters of goods. He acquired a large steamship prior to World War 1, and succeeded in the lucrative shipping market dominated regionally by the Elder Dempster company. He later delved into the rubber business in Benin and focused more on importing goods.\n"}
{"id": "4211341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4211341", "title": "Singapore Science Park", "text": "Singapore Science Park\n\nSingapore Science Park (Chinese: 新加坡科学园; ) is a research, development and technologies hub in Singapore. Managed by Ascendas, it was set up under a government initiative in 1980 to provide an infrastructure for retail and development to flourish in Singapore.\n\nIn 1980, the Government gave its seal of approval to proceed with the construction of the Singapore Science Park on a 30-hectare plot of land. In 1982, Singapore Science Park I welcomed its first tenant, Det Norske Veritas (DNV).\n\nIn 1993, construction of Singapore Science Park II began on a 20-hectare plot of land, the first building constructed was the Institute of Microelectronics (IME). The Alpha, a multi-tenant building was the next building constructed in Singapore Science Park II.\n\nIn 2000, Arcasia would expand and develop a 15-hectare plot of land next to the Singapore Science Park II into a Singapore Science Park III at a cost of about $600 million. However, it was revealed that the latter was an expansion of Singapore Science Park II. Galen, the first building on the Singapore Science Park II's expanded plot was completed on 29 June 2003.\n\nThe Singapore Science Park, one of the earliest parks founded in economies at the developing stage, is ranked the second most popular in the Asia Pacific region.\n\n"}
{"id": "52097323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52097323", "title": "Tony Ezekiel", "text": "Tony Ezekiel\n\nTony Ohifeme Ezekiel (born 17 June 1958 in Kaduna) is a Nigerian businessman who won the Leadership Award for Entrepreneur of the year in 2008. He is also an entrepreneur and an industrialist.\n\nTony who hails from Eme-Ora in Owan West LGA of Edo State in Nigeria, was born to the family of Late Mr. Joseph Aiguabasimin Ezekiel and late Mrs. Emily Ajayi Ezekiel\n\nTony attended Our Lady Primary School, Kaduna in 1966 and finished at St. Mary’s Primary School, Lokoja in 1972. Upon completing his primary education, he attended Government Secondary School, Koton Karfi.\n\nHe obtained a bachelor's degree in Mathematics from the prestigious Ahmadu Bello University. He also holds a master's degree in Business Administration from the Oxford University .\n\nHe lives and works in Abuja with his wife, Adeola and his three children – Emilomo, Ailohi (Manny) and Oare.\n\nTony is the founder and CEO of Itex Furniture an indigenous Nigeria furniture manufacturing company based in Abuja, Nigeria. Itex has been privileged to have furnished various landmark buildings in and around the country; Ministry of Foreign Affairs Headquarters, Abuja, Central Bank of Nigeria Headquarters, Abuja, Federal Ministry of Finance Headquarters, Abuja, Military Pensions Board Headquarters amongst others.\n\nHe is an active member of the All Progressives Congress in his constituency in Edo state.\n\nHe has been actively involved in some philanthropic activities such as:\n\nTony Ezekiel has been a recipient of numerous awards, some of which include:\n\nIn May 2013, Tony Ezekiel was honored by the University of Oxford and a Seminar Room named after him at Oxford University.\n"}
{"id": "207881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207881", "title": "Twelve leverage points", "text": "Twelve leverage points\n\nThe twelve leverage points to intervene in a system were proposed by Donella Meadows, a scientist and system analyst focused on environmental limits to economic growth.\n\nThe leverage points, first published in 1997, were inspired by her attendance at a North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) meeting in the early 1990s where she realized that a very large new system was being proposed but the mechanisms to manage it were ineffective.\n\nMeadows, who worked in the field of systems analysis, proposed a scale of places to intervene in a system. Awareness and manipulation of these levers is an aspect of self-organization and can lead to collective intelligence.\n\nHer observations are often cited in energy economics, green economics and human development theory.\n\nShe started with the observation that there are levers, or places within a complex system (such as a firm, a city, an economy, a living being, an ecosystem, an ecoregion) where a \"small shift in one thing can produce big changes in everything\" (compare: constraint in the sense of Theory of Constraints).\n\nShe claimed we need to know about these \"shifts\", where they are and how to use them. She said most people know where these points are instinctively, but tend to adjust them in the wrong direction. This understanding would help solve global problems such as unemployment, hunger, economic stagnation, pollution, resources depletion, and conservation issues.\n\nMeadows started with a 9-point list of such places, and expanded it to a list of \"twelve leverage points\" with explanation and examples, for systems in general.\n\nShe describes a system as being in a certain state, and containing a stock, with inflows (amounts coming into the system) and outflows (amounts going out of the system). At a given time, the system is in a certain perceived state. There may also be a goal for the system to be in a certain state. The difference between the current state and the goal is the discrepancy.\n\nThe following are in increasing order of effectiveness.\n\nParameters are points of lowest leverage effects. Though they are the most clearly perceived among all leverages, they rarely change behaviors and therefore have little long-term effect.\n\nA buffer's ability to stabilize a system is important when the stock amount is much higher than the potential amount of inflows or outflows. In the lake, the water is the buffer: if there's a lot more of it than inflow/outflow, the system stays stable.\n\nBuffers can improve a system, but they are often physical entities whose size is critical and can't be changed easily.\n\nA system's structure may have enormous effect on operations, but may be difficult or prohibitively expensive to change. Fluctuations, limitations, and bottlenecks may be easier to address.\n\nInformation received too quickly or too late can cause over- or underreaction, even oscillations.\n\nA negative feedback loop slows down a process, tending to promote stability. The loop will keep the stock near the goal, thanks to parameters, accuracy and speed of information feedback, and size of correcting flows.\n\nA positive feedback loop speeds up a process. Meadows indicates that in most cases, it is preferable to slow down a positive loop, rather than speeding up a negative one.\n\nInformation flow is neither a parameter, nor a reinforcing or slowing loop, but a loop that delivers new information. It is cheaper and easier to change information flows than it is to change structure.\n\nPay attention to rules, and to who makes them.\n\nSelf-organization describes a system's ability to change itself by creating new structures, adding new negative and positive feedback loops, promoting new information flows, or making new rules.\n\nChanging goals changes every item listed above: parameters, feedback loops, information and self-organization.\n\nA societal paradigm is an idea, a shared unstated assumption, or a system of thought that is the foundation of complex social structures. Paradigms are very hard to change, but there are no limits to paradigm change. Meadows indicates paradigms might be changed by repeatedly and consistently pointing out anomalies and failures in the current paradigm to those with open minds.\n\nTranscending paradigms may go beyond challenging fundamental assumptions, into the realm of changing the values and priorities that lead to the assumptions, and being able to choose among value sets at will.\n\n\n"}
