{"id": "43756488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43756488", "title": "ACC Asia XI cricket team", "text": "ACC Asia XI cricket team\n\nACC Asian XI cricket team was a team that took part in World Cricket Tsunami Appeal and Afro-Asia Cup. The ACC Asian XI played their first in a one-off match the 2005 World Cricket Tsunami Appeal which was designed to raise funds for charities following the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and resulting tsunami. As of now, Asia XI had played 7 matches played, the Asian XI have won 4 of them.\n\nThe team also competed in an Afro-Asia Cup against an Africa XI which was designed as a fund-raiser for the African Cricket Association and the Asian Cricket Council. The Afro-Asian Cup debuted in 2005 and the second tournament was played in 2007.\n\nTheir first match resulted in a heavy 112 run loss to the World XI in the Tsunami Appeal match at Melbourne Cricket Ground. Travelex sponsored the first match, which was a 78,000 sell-out, for A$1 million. Two C-130H Hercules aircraft, similar to those used by the Royal Australian Air Force to carry supplies to regions devastated by the massive earthquake and resulting tsunamis, flew over the MCG during the break between innings.\n\nThe first ODI, which the World XI won by 112 runs, raised approximately A$17 million, while original estimations suggested only A$5 million would be raised from the Australians. The games were designated as One Day Internationals by the ICC, the first time a game between teams not representing separate cricketing nations was so designated. This designation attracted criticism from cricket statisticians.\n\nIn the 2007 competition, the Asian XI recorded a 3–0 whitewash of the Africans – winning the first two matches by 34 and 31 runs (respectively), the latter helped by Dilhara Fernando recording ODI career best bowling figures of 4/36. In the final match, the Asians fell to 72/5, but following centuries from Mahela Jayawardene (107) and Mahendra Singh Dhoni (139*) – the latter being the highest individual score ever recorded in an Afro-Asia Cup match – they posted a score of 331/8. Despite half-centuries from three of the African batsmen, however, the Asian XI won by 13 runs.\n\nMahela Jayawardene is the highest run-scorer of the Asian XI in the Afro-Asia Cup, with two half-centuries and a century to his name, second to Shaun Pollock, and was named Man of the Series for the 2007 competition. Zaheer Khan tops the list for most wickets with 11.\n\n"}
{"id": "24163507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24163507", "title": "Aornum", "text": "Aornum\n\nAornum (Ancient Greek: ) was an oracle in Ancient Greece, located in Thesprotia in a cave called Charonium () which gave forth poisonous vapours. The name of the cave, \"Charon's Cave\", reflects the belief that it was an entrance for Hades, the Greek underworld. In a version of the myth, Orpheus travels to Aornum to recover his wife, Eurydice, from Hades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "523462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=523462", "title": "Bureau des Longitudes", "text": "Bureau des Longitudes\n\nThe Bureau des Longitudes () is a French scientific institution, founded by decree of 25 June 1795 and charged with the improvement of nautical navigation, standardisation of time-keeping, geodesy and astronomical observation. During the 19th century, it was responsible for synchronizing clocks across the world. It was headed during this time by François Arago and Henri Poincaré. The Bureau now functions as an academy and still meets monthly to discuss topics related to astronomy.\n\nThe Bureau was founded by the National Convention after it heard a report drawn up jointly by the Committee of Navy, the Committee of Finances and the Committee of State education. Henri Grégoire had brought to the attention of the National Convention France's failing maritime power and the naval mastery of England, proposing that improvements in navigation would lay the foundations for a renaissance in naval strength. As a result, the Bureau was established with authority over the Paris Observatory and all other astronomical establishments throughout France. The Bureau was charged with taking control of the seas away from the English and improving accuracy when tracking the longitudes of ships through astronomical observations and reliable clocks.\n\nThe ten original members of its founding board were:\n\n\nBy a decree of 30 January 1854, the Bureau's mission was extended to embrace geodesy, time standardisation and astronomical measurements. This decree granted independence to the Paris Observatory, separating it from the Bureau, and focused the efforts of the Bureau on time and astronomy. The Bureau was successful at setting a universal time in Paris via air pulses sent through pneumatic tubes. It later worked to synchronize time across the French colonial empire by determining the length of time for a signal to make a round trip to and from a French colony.\n\nThe French Bureau of Longitude established a commission in the year 1897 to extend the metric system to the measurement of time. They planned to abolish the antiquated division of the day into hours, minutes, and seconds, and replace it by a division into tenths, thousandths, and hundred-thousandths of a day. This was a revival of a dream that was in the minds of the creators of the metric system at the time of the French Revolution a hundred years earlier. Some members of the Bureau of Longitude commission introduced a compromise proposal, retaining the old-fashioned hour as the basic unit of time and dividing it into hundredths and ten-thousandths. Poincaré served as secretary of the commission and took its work very seriously, writing several of its reports. He was a fervent believer in a universal metric system. But he lost the battle. The rest of the world outside France gave no support to the commission's proposals, and the French government was not prepared to go it alone. After three years of hard work, the commission was dissolved in 1900.\n\nSince 1970, the board has been constituted with 13 members, 3 nominated by the Académie des Sciences. Since 1998, practical work has been carried out by the \"Institut de mécanique céleste et de calcul des éphémérides\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28077130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28077130", "title": "CAB Direct (database)", "text": "CAB Direct (database)\n\nCAB Direct is a source of references for the \"applied life sciences\" It incorporates two bibliographic databases: CAB Abstracts and Global Health. CAB Direct is an access point for multiple bibliographic databases produced by \"CABI\". This database contains 8.8 million bibliographic records, which includes 85,000 full text articles. It also includes noteworthy literature reviews. News articles and reports are also part of this combined database.\n\nIn the U.K., in 1947, the \"Imperial Agricultural Bureaux\" became the \"Commonwealth Agricultural Bureaux\" or \"CAB\". In 1986 the \"Commonwealth Agricultural Bureaux\" became \"CAB International\" or \"CABI\" \n\nCAB Abstracts is an applied life sciences bibliographic database emphasising agricultural literature, which is international in scope. It contains 8 million records, with coverage from 1973 to present day, adding 360,000 abstracts per year. Subject coverage includes agriculture, environment, veterinary sciences, applied economics, food science and nutrition. Database covers international issues in agriculture, forestry, and allied disciplines in the life sciences. Indexed publications are from 120 countries in 50 languages, including English abstracts for most articles. Literature coverage includes journals, proceedings, books, and a large collection of agricultural serials. Other non-journal formats are also indexed. \nCAB Abstracts Archive is a searchable database produced by \"CABI\". It is created from 600 volumes of printed abstracts, which are the collected and published scientific research from 1910 to 1972, and then digitized to form the archive. This archive database contains more than 1.8 million records which covers agriculture, veterinary science, nutrition and the environment. Subject coverage also includes biodiversity, pest control, environmental pollution, animal disease (including zoonotic diseases), nutrition, and food production. Natural resource management includes plant and animal breeding. CAB Abstracts Archive is also indexed in other databases, which also serve as access points. These other databases are \"CAB Direct\", Web of Knowledge, EBSCOhost, OvidSP, and Dialog.\n\nThe following print journals (digitized) comprise CAB Abstracts Archive:\n\nWeed Abstracts, derived from CAB Abstracts, is an abstracts database focused on published research regarding weeds and herbicides. This includes weed biology, encompassing research areas from genetics to ecology, including parasitic, poisonous, allergenic and aquatic weeds. Further coverage includes all topics related to weed control, in both crop and non-crop situations. Research on herbicides, includes formulations, herbicide resistance and the effects of herbicide residues in the environment. 10,000 records are add to this database per year. \n\nWeed Abstracts is updated weekly with summaries from notable English and foreign language journal articles, reports, conferences and books about weeds and herbicides. With the back-file, coverage is from 1990 to present day bringing the total of available research summaries to 130,000 records.\n\nGlobal Health is a bibliographic database which focuses on research literature in public health and medical health science sectors (including practice). Information (see infobox above) in indexed in more than 5000 academic journals, and indexed from other sources such as reports, books and conferences. Global Health contains over 1.2 million scientific records from 1973 to the present, with an addition of 90,000 indexed and abstracted records per year. Sources are abstracted from publications in 158 countries written in 50 languages. Any relevant non-English-language papers are translated into English. Proceedings, patents, thesis papers, electronic publications and relevant but difficult-to-find literature sources are also part of this database. \n\nGlobal Health Archive is a searchable database produced by CABI. It is created from 800,000 records, from six printed abstract journals, which are collected published scientific research from 1910 to 1972, digitized to form the archive. Global Health Archive is also indexed in other databases, which also serve as access points. These other databases are \"CAB Direct\", Web of Knowledge, EBSCOhost, OvidSP, and Dialog.\n\nWhen combined with the \"Global Health\" database indexing coverage can be from 1910 to present day. Hence, coverage is made up of past epidemics, from rates and patterns of disease transmission, duration of pandemics, timing of epidemiological peaks, geographic distribution of diseases, and government preparedness and quarantine provisions. The following can also be taken into account: effects on different age and social groups, severity in developing vs. developed countries, symptoms, causes of mortality - such as secondary problems like pneumonia - and mortality rates. \n\nRecords for this database are derived from the following journals throughout certain years:\n\nSubject coverage includes Public health, Tropical and Communicable diseases, Nutrition, Parasitology, Entomology, and Mycology.\n\nTropical Diseases Bulletin is a bibliographic and abstracts database which focuses on research published regarding infectious diseases and public health in developing countries and the tropics and subtropics. This includes research areas from epidemiology to diagnosis, therapy to disease prevention, tropical medicine, and related aspects of travel medicine. Published research coverage on patients and populations encompasses the health of marginalized populations: immigrants, refugees, and indigenous peoples.\n\nBack-file coverage is from 1990 to present day, with an accessible base of 195,000 abstracts and the addition of 11,000 records per year. As a monthly journal Tropical Diseases Bulletin is also available in print. This print journal has author, subject and serials cited indexes. Coverage of the print back-file is to 1912. A searchable, electronic database version of this journal is part of the \"Global Health Archive\" (see above).\n\nThis indexing database focuses on scientific literature pertaining to all topics in organic farming, in both the temperate and tropical zones. This includes sustainability issues and soil fertility. Coverage is global; literature is obtained from 125 countries. The temporal coverage spans 30 years, 180,000 organic research abstracts, along with the addition of 8000 records per year. Linking to full text articles, guided searches, broad subject categorization along with subject refinement are also provided. The editorial advisory board of this database also commission reviews pertaining to organic farming.\n\nCABI full text repository is integrated into all \"CABI databases\" including CAB Abstracts, and Global Health. Both of these are online and print journals. Coverage includes 70,000 full text articles, through agreements with third party publishers. Eighty percent of the content is exclusive to CABI. \n\nThe full text repository is made up of fifty percent journal articles, and equal percentage of conference (proceeding) papers, and other accessible literature is also included. Eighty percent of the articles are in English and coverage includes 56 countries. Also included in this database are relevant but hard to find materials which crosses disciplines consisting of agriculture, health and the life sciences. Mainstream literature and hard to find materials of equal relevance are given equal access.\n\n\"CABI full text repository\" is indexed in other databases, which also serve as access points, consisting of \"Web of Knowledge (Thomson Reuters)\", \"CAB Direct\", \"OvidSP, Dialog, Dimdi, and EBSCOhost\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22130374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22130374", "title": "Challenger Society for Marine Science", "text": "Challenger Society for Marine Science\n\nThe Challenger Society for Marine Science (or Challenger Society) is a learned society established in 1903 in the United Kingdom around the interdisciplinary subject of marine science. The central objectives of the Challenger Society are:\n\nThe Challenger Society was founded in 1903 by two British scientists, the zoologist George Herbert Fowler and the physician Richard Norris Wolfenden. The Society was named in honour of , which undertook the first global marine research survey, the \"Challenger\" expedition, between 1872 and 1876. When it was founded, the Society had 25 members who met four times annually in the Royal Society rooms of Burlington House in London.\n\nThe Challenger Society has a current membership of several hundred scientists and students. The Society publishes the journal \"Ocean Challenge\" three times a year, together with a monthly newsletter, \"Challenge Wave\". Every two years since 1984, the Society holds a four-day conference, the \"Challenger Conference for Marine Science\" (formerly known as \"UK Oceanography\"). This conference typically attracts around 300 delegates and its location is rotated around the key marine-based research centres and universities within the UK. The most recent conference in September 2015 was hosted at Sheffield University.\n\n"}
{"id": "1372502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1372502", "title": "Cincinnati Subway", "text": "Cincinnati Subway\n\nThe Cincinnati Subway is a set of incomplete, derelict tunnels and stations for a rapid transit system beneath the streets of Cincinnati, Ohio. Although it is only a little over 2 miles in length, it is the largest abandoned subway tunnel system in the United States. Construction began in the early 1900s as an upgrade to the Cincinnati streetcar system, but was abandoned due to escalating costs, the collapse of funding amidst political bickering, and the Great Depression during the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nIn 1928, the construction of the subway system in Cincinnati was indefinitely canceled. There are no plans to revive the project.\n\nRapid transit was seen as the solution for downtown congestion during the first quarter of the 20th century. Six million dollars were allocated for the project, but construction was delayed due to World War I. Unexpected post-war inflation doubled the cost of construction, so the project could not be finished at the original estimated price.\n\nVarious attempts to use the subway tunnels for mass transit have been unsuccessful. Political squabbling, the Great Depression, World War II, and the rise in popularity of the automobile have contributed to the failure of the proposals. Today, many Cincinnatians are unaware of the tunnels underneath them.\n\nFrom 1825 to 1920 the Miami and Erie Canal divided Cincinnati's residential neighborhood of Over-the-Rhine from the business district of downtown. The canal was used to transport goods and people from the Great Lakes to the Ohio River and subsequently the Mississippi River via Cincinnati, until the popularity of railroads caused it to become disused. The canal became unprofitable by 1856 and was abandoned by the city in 1877.\n\nOn September 15, 1883 a weekly Cincinnati magazine called \"The Graphic\" proposed that the \"dead old ditch\" be used to provide an unobstructed route for a subway system, with a large boulevard above. \n\nIn 1888, Cincinnati began adopting electric streetcars, which soon became the main form of public transportation. During this period Cincinnati was one of the seven most populous US citiesand had a rate of growth and economic importance that was similar to that of New York City and Chicago. The slow streetcars shared the crowded streets with horse-drawn carriages and people, and collided with the first automobiles on an almost daily basis. It was not unusual for trips between downtown and the surrounding suburbs to take 45 minutes to an hour. Despite having of streetcar tracks, the city found itself in a growing traffic nightmare.\n\nAnother newspaper, the \"Cincinnati Commercial Tribune\", gave encouraging words to the public and said \"We believe that the city we love, our home, is at the turning point, and that with the coming of Rapid Transit we will have the beginning of a Greater, More Prosperous, Healthier and Happier Cincinnati. We believe that a Vote for the Loop is a Vote for the best interests of all of us, and it is with pride that we state that every newspaper in the city is for the Loop, and practically all of the Business organizations as well as the Trades Unions.\" This helped the project win the fight in the polls when the people of Cincinnati enthusiastically passed bill to start construction.\n\nIn 1910, Henry Thomas Hunt spearheaded plans for a new rapid transit system. The next year City Council convinced the Ohio State Legislature to lease the city's portion of the canal for use as a boulevard and subway system. The city hired experts that worked on Boston's and Chicago's rapid transit systems to research the best possible implementation for Cincinnati's rapid transit system. The result were four \"Schemes,\" or proposed routes. The chosen plan—Scheme IV, modification H—looped around the city hitting the central suburbs of St. Bernard and Norwood, the eastern suburbs of Oakley and Hyde Park, and then returned into downtown.\n\nIn 1916 City Council authorized a bond issue of $6 million with an interest rate of 4.25 percent, and then held a plebiscite on the rapid transit plan. The bond was supposed to fund a subway system stretching across Cincinnati, which would, in turn, slow or even stop the decline of Cincinnati's population at the time. One advertisement in support of the subway proclaimed, \"Every newspaper in the city is for the Loop, and practically all of the Business organizations as well as the Trades Unions.\" On April 17, 1917, Cincinnati citizens voted in favor of using the bond for a Rapid Transit system, 30,165 to 14,286. The system would be built as an elevated railway through downtown, Evanston, Oakley, and Norwood, with an underground portion to be built under the Miami and Erie Canal and extend under the Mill Creek valley to St. Bernard.\n\nHowever, because the United States entered World War I just 11 days earlier, construction was halted because no capital issues of bonds were permitted during the war.\n\nWhen the war ended in 1918, costs had increased. By 1919 the cost of construction had doubled, increasing the original price to complete the loop from $12 million to $13 million. Regardless, the city began work on January 28, 1920, at the current intersection of Walnut Street and Central Parkway, and the city planned to raise the money to complete the loop later, since funds were so low and there was a shortage in construction materials. The subway's construction caused the foundations of buildings along the route to crack, leading to much litigation against the subway. When bonds ran out in 1927, construction ended with of subway dug or graded, but no track had been laid.\nNew estimates to complete the loop ranged from an additional $6 million to $12 million. The eastern part of the loop was later canceled as a cost-cutting measure. The boulevard that ran on top of the subway, Central Parkway, officially opened to traffic on October 1, 1928, and was followed by a week of public celebration. However, by the late 1920s, Prohibition had severely impacted the city, because alcoholic beverages, a major source of revenue for the city, were not allowed to be purchased. Still, as late as 1926–1927, new tunnels, such as the Hopple Street Tunnel, were being built.\n\nOnce it became apparent that the original rapid transit plan had failed, political infighting in City Hall stalled any new progress, due to an anti-City Hall campaign led by city manager Murray Seasongood beginning in 1920. Newspapers started to print articles arguing against the subway, using such rationales as the tight curve of the subway and its small tunnels to try to advocate against its completion. \n\nAlong with this, the cities of Norwood and Saint Bernard continuously negotiated with the city of Cincinnati, pushing the construction back another year. Two more months were piled on to the delay also Brighton residents were upset with the blast damages destroying their property. The construction methods created suspicion to state examiners.\n\nIn January 1929, Seasongood – by then the Mayor – discontinued the Rapid Transit Commission, which until then had been in control of the subway's construction; that year, his own office took control of the project. Any hope of raising the money to complete the subway was further delayed with the stock market crash of 1929. Though few citizens owned automobiles when Mayor Hunt first planned rapid transit in 1910, their increasing popularity and convenience helped fuel critics' arguments against a subway system. They began referring to the project as \"Cincinnati's White Elephant.\" Even so, the \"temporary\" hiatus on construction was expected to end after the economy got better, and many Cincinnatians, including Seasongood, hoped that the subway would finally be completed.\n\nThere have been many attempts to complete the tunnels, but few people know why the subway was never completed or used for another significant purpose. In 1936 the city commissioned the Engineers' Club of Cincinnati to produce a report on how to use the unfinished rapid transit property. The report could not find any use for the tunnels other than what they had been designed for. Because the city's needs had changed from twenty years earlier, the report suggested that the subway \"should be forgotten\". In 1939 the tunnels were researched for possible automobile traffic, but were found to be unsuitable for that use. In 1940 the city sought the advice of several experts to settle once and for all the fate of the subway. The report recommended placing all streetcar and trolley transportation underground (i.e., a subway), but Cincinnati already had too many other expensive public projects underway. In any case, the plan was put on hold yet again when the United States entered World War II in 1941.\n\nDuring World War II, the city was focused on war-time rationing, so completing the subway was not a high priority. The tunnels were suggested as possible air raid shelters, but the idea was never implemented. Underground storage of commercial and military supplies was also proposed as a use for the tunnels, or as a pathway to bring freight into the heart of the city, but both ideas were rejected because they would delay bringing mass transit to Cincinnati. After the war ended the City Planning Commission decided to not include the subway in its plans. Instead, the commission would use the loop's right-of-way as pathways for Interstate 75 and the Norwood Lateral. Then, in the 1950s, a massive water main was laid in the northbound tunnel to save $300,000 by not digging a new tunnel for the water main. According to the engineering firm Parsons Brinckerhoff, a redundant water main was installed during the construction of Fort Washington Way so the water main in the subway could be removed easily. There is also an escape clause in Ordinance No. 154-1956 that states, \"in the event said section of the rapid transit subway is, at some future date, needed for rapid transit purposes, the Water Works shall remove said main at its sole cost.\"\n\nIn the 1960's the Hamilton county proposed the Liberty Street station be turned into a bomb shelter. However, the result was a very weak attempt at a fallout shelter that would not provide much for those residing in it. There were also suggestions by investors to turn the tunnels into passages for freight trains, but that project failed due to the sharp turns existing in the tunnels that freight trains could not handle.\n\nThe subway bonds were paid off in 1966 at a total cost of $13,019,982.45. Around that time Meier's Wine Cellars Inc. wanted to use the subway tunnels to store wine, as well as install a bottling operation to draw tourists, but it fell through due to a lack of proper building codes. In the 1970s Nick Clooney wanted to turn parts of the tunnel into an underground mall and a night club, but that fell through early on due to insurance issues. In the 1980s the city pitched the tunnels to Hollywood filmmakers as a location to shoot subway scenes. In particular, the location was presented to the makers of \"Batman Forever\", but as of 2008 the tunnels had not been used in any feature films.\n\nIn 2002, a regional light rail system was proposed to use the tunnels; the system would cost $2.6 billion and take thirty years to build. The tunnels were favored because they were in an ideal location, they could easily be used to connect the east side and the west sides of Cincinnati, and they would have saved the city at least $100 million in construction costs at the time. The light rail plan, called MetroMoves, proposed a tax levy that would have raised sales tax in Hamilton county by a half-cent. The plan was voted down by more than a 2-to-1 ratio, with 68% opposing MetroMoves. Still, an underground portion of the Riverfront Transit Center was built to serve the proposed, unbuilt MetroMoves lines; this transit center was later served by another Cincinnati streetcar line, the Cincinnati Streetcar.\n\nThe uncompleted subway tunnels and stations have been described as \"in good shape.\" This is partially credited to the original construction quality, and partially because Cincinnati needs to maintain the tunnel, using tax revenues, due to the presence of Central Parkway on top of it.\n\nIn 2008 it was estimated that it would cost $2.6 million to simply keep maintaining the tunnels, $19 million to fill the tunnels with dirt, and $100.5 million to revive the tunnels for modern subway use. Relocating the water main would cost $14 million. , the abandoned tunnel is used to carry the relocated water main and some optical fiber cables.\n\nThe abandoned tunnels are frequented by urban explorers and the homeless.\n\nSeven stations were completed along Central Parkway: four underground and three above ground. The underground stations remain intact, but the above-ground stations were demolished when I-75 was built in the 1960s. The underground stations' locations are at Race Street, Liberty Street, Linn Street, and Brighton Place, while the above-ground stations' locations were at Marshall Street, Ludlow Avenue, Clifton Avenue, and Reading Road\n\nThe first station was the Race Street Station, which was to serve as the main hub. It was configured with the platform in the center, with the subway running along the north and south side. Next was Liberty Street, which was a through-station. It was a simple design with a platform on each side of the track. Third was Linn Street, also a through station. Laid out similarly to Liberty Street, this station has been sealed up, and can be easily missed when walking through. Fourth was Brighton Place, another through-station.\n\nMarshall Street was the most grand of the above-ground stations, located to the west near the Mill Creek Valley. Ludlow Avenue Station was constructed under the south side of the Ludlow Viaduct and was also a through-station. The last to be completed was Clifton Avenue, which was located where the street passes under present day I-75. There were additional stations in the plan; however, funding ran out as the project reached Norwood.\n\nThe subway tunnels run north and south. Each of the two halves of the tube has a minimum width of and a height of . Each tunnel has parallel wooden stringers which are bolted to the floor, and are intended to support steel rails that were never laid. They are from center to center, which is wider than most railway lines. All curves in the tunnel are gradual, and on those curves the outside stringer was raised higher than the inner stringer to accommodate trains traveling at speeds of more than .\n\nThere were many details of the unfinished subway system, such as a provision for a station at Mohawk Corner, where the wall has been set back. At Walnut Street the lines begin to curve south to go into downtown, but they are stopped short by a bricked up wall. The subway tunnel is double-tracked throughout its entire length, with a concrete wall separating the two tracks. Openings in the wall enable persons to step from one track to another. The tunnels are well ventilated and provide much light until Liberty Street is reached.\n\n\n\n\n\nImages:\n\nStudies:\n"}
{"id": "55574351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55574351", "title": "Climate change in the Caribbean", "text": "Climate change in the Caribbean\n\nClimate change could pose disadvantageous risks to the islands in the Caribbean. The environmental changes expected to affect the Caribbean are a rise in sea level, stronger hurricanes, longer dry seasons and shorter wet seasons. As a result, climate change is expected to lead to changes in the economy, environment and population of the Caribbean.\n\nThe Caribbean is composed of an archipelago of islands between North and South America. These islands are Antigua, Aruba, Barbados, Bonaire, the Cayman Islands, Cuba, Curacao, Dominica, Guadeloupe, Grenada, Hispaniola, Jamaica, Martinique, Montserrat, Puerto Rico, Saba, Saint Croix, Saint Eustatius, Saint John, Saint Kitts, Saint Lucia, Saint Thomas, Saint Vincent, the Bahamas, Tortola, and Trinidad and Tobago.The climate average annual temperature of the Caribbean is 81 °F.\n\nRising sea levels are expected to cause coastal erosion due to climate change. According to NASA, the sea level is expected to increase by by 2100. Rise in sea level could impact coastal communities of the Caribbean if they are less than above the sea. In Latin American and the Caribbean, it is expected that 29 – 32 million people may be affected by the sea level rise because they live below this threshold. The Bahamas and Trinidad and Tobago are expected to be the most affected because at least 80% of the total land is below the sea level. Coastal loses range between US$940 million to $1.2 billion in the 22 largest coastal cities in Latin America and the Caribbean. Main sources of income, such as tourism, will also be affected because many of the main touristic attractions such as beaches and hotels are near the coast. In 2004, a study reported that 12 million tourists had visited the Caribbean.\n\nAn increase in air and sea surface temperature is predicted to promote the development of stronger tropical cyclone (also known as hurricanes). Key factors that lead to the development of hurricanes are the warm temperatures of the air and sea surface. The higher temperatures increase the probability of the storm to become a hurricane. This provides the energy for the hurricane to intensify.\n\nIn September 2017, the United States National Hurricane Center reported that the North Atlantic basin was highly active because four tropical storms formed and they all became hurricanes. They report a higher than average record on the number of tropical storms that developed into hurricanes this year. Two of these four hurricanes, Irma and Maria, hit the islands in the Caribbean. Once at the Caribbean, both Irma and Maria became Category 5 hurricanes. NASA reported that the temperature of the sea surface in the Caribbean when Irma became a hurricane was . The required temperature for the development of a major storm is suggested to be higher than . Hurricanes of category 5 have wind speeds greater than 157 mph. In addition to strong, Hurricanes Irma and Maria also carried more rainfall than previous storms. The warmer the air temperature the more water can be held by air leading to more precipitation. Multiple sources suggest that this increase in strengthening and precipitation in recent hurricanes is due to climate change. Hurricane Irma and Maria had a total of of rainfall. In Cuba, Hurricane Irma sustained precipitation was at per hour. In Puerto Rico, Hurricane Maria had a sustained precipitation of per hour.\n\nAn increase in surface temperature has also been suggested to affect the coral reefs. In 2005 in the Caribbean, a rise in the sea surface temperature is thought to have caused widespread coral bleaching. In this study, they evaluate if this increase in sea surface temperature was due to natural climate variability or human activity. They concluded that it would be very unlikely that natural climate variability alone could account for this event. Their model suggests that this event would occur once every 1000 years if human activity is not taken into consideration in the model.\n\nMultiple sources suggest that the Caribbean is in a particularly difficult position to address climate change. The Caribbean's long history of colonialism for the extraction of goods, such as sugar, has left them dependent on colonial entities. This has created a disadvantage to the Caribbean as they lack the ability to compete with the current world economy and be self-sufficient. Centuries of colonialism has generated a feedback loop of the dependence of the Caribbean’s economy on global powers.\n\nThe damages expected from climate change will weaken the economy of the Caribbean as it will target some of the major sources of income, like tourism. It has been estimated that 25% to 35% of the Caribbean’s economy relies on tourism. Tourism could be significantly reduced if less tourists travel to the Caribbean because of an increase in the strength and likelihood of hurricanes in the next century. It is expected that hurricane costs are expected to range between US$350 to $550 million or about 11% to 17% of the current GDP for hurricane damages annually. They expect that the Bahamas, Haiti, and Jamaica are the islands that will suffer the most from climate change. In addition, they suggest that agricultural and rural areas are among the sectors that will be most affected by hurricanes in the Caribbean. They estimate that damages to these areas could cost about US$3 million per year by 2050 and US$12 – $15 million by 2100.\n"}
{"id": "37081897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37081897", "title": "David Benvenisti", "text": "David Benvenisti\n\nDavid Benvenisti () (1897 in Thessaloniki – 1993 in Jerusalem) a descendant of a known rabbis family in Thessaloniki) was a geographer and educator; received the 'Israel Prize' of 1982 for his life achievements in education and geography of Israel; and the Yakir Yerushalayim in 1969.\n\nBenvenisti was married to Leah Friedman from Suwalki Poland. His sons are: Meron Benvenisti, a historian and writer who was the deputy mayor of Jerusalem for many years; and Refael (Rafi) Benvenisti, an economist and historian. His grandson is Eyal Benvenisti, a professor of law in Tel Aviv and New York City.\n\nDavid Benvenisti's grandfather Shmuel Yosef was the Chief Justice of the Jewish Court in Thessaloniki. Emigrated to Palestine in 1913 to learn rabbinical studies in Jerusalem. In 1918 he finished studies in a teachers college 'The Hebrew Teachers' College of Jerusalem'. He enlisted in the Hebrew Battalion from Palestine of the British Army in 1918 and served during the First World War in Palestine and the Middle East until 1920.\n\nIn the 1930s he established with friends the now 'Israel Youth Hostel Association'. He received an M.A. degree in Geography from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1935. He was a member of the Jewish Haganah organization and was wounded in the battle of the siege of Jerusalem in 1948.\n\nHe was a teacher and a principal of an elementary school in Beit Hakerem in Jerusalem for more than 40 years. During his tenure years he refused to leave his pupils for higher positions. He established with friends in 1927 the first 'Palestine Hikers Association' that organized hiking and car tours of Palestine and the Middle east. After retirement from teaching he became in 1964 the first director general of the Ben Zvi Institute for the study of Jewish communities in the East' in Jerusalem and the chairman of the Committee for Naming Roads and Streets of Jerusalem.\n\nBenvenisti wrote many teaching books and maps for school on the geography of Israel for many years. He wrote together with his friends one of the first guide books of Palestine after the First World War. He edited books and wrote many articles on the history of the Jewish Community of Thessaloniki. He wrote his memoirs on his childhood in Thessaloniki, his service in the Hebrew Battalion in the First World War, and his years as a teacher and principal of his school.\n"}
{"id": "32380808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32380808", "title": "Dethatcher", "text": "Dethatcher\n\nA dethatcher, or lawn scarifier is a device that removes thatch from lawns. Types of dethatchers include motorized dethatchers or those that can be pulled behind a garden tractor.\n\nScarification or de-thatching of lawns or turf is a mechanical process whereby the surface and subsurface of the lawn, green or sports pitch is rigorously abraded by penetrating metal blades, tines or prongs. \n\nThe process is usually carried out by machines of a professional standard which are normally powered by gasoline engines. Smaller, less rigorous electric machines are also available for the domestic market. The process of scarifying is designed to remove thatch from lawns.\n\nThatch is a build-up of organic matter which can include dead grass, leaves, stems, stolons, rhizomes and overcrowded grass roots and lateral weed growth. Thatch can stifle the growth and health of grass or turf. Removing the thatch helps the grass by encouraging it to thicken up and also makes it stronger and less susceptible to disease. Reducing thatch levels increases the levels of water, air and nutrients that can get through to the root zone of the grass plants. Significant thatch problems in lawns can cause diseases and can encourage moss to grow in the areas where grass has died. A by-product of scarifying or de-thatching is that moss is also removed, and depending on how deep the scarifying blades are set, root cutting can also occur, and this in turn helps grass to thicken up over time. Scarifying is normally carried out in autumn or spring. When scarifying or de-thatching, not all thatch should be removed as a small amount of thatch is beneficial to the lawn. A lawn that has excessive thatch may feel spongy when trod upon. After removing thatch, it can be swept or raked up using a lawn sweeper.\n"}
{"id": "52190925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52190925", "title": "Diego de Torres y Moyachoque", "text": "Diego de Torres y Moyachoque\n\nDiego de Torre(s) y Moyachoque (Tunja, New Kingdom of Granada, 1549 - Madrid, Spain, 4 April 1590) was \"cacique\" of Turmequé, in the former Muisca Confederation, under Spanish rule. He served as chief from 1571 to his death. De Torres y Moyachoque was a mestizo; the child of a Spanish conquistador and a Muisca mother. He is known for his defense of the local Muisca and resistance against the Spanish encomenderos, particularly his half-brother Pedro de Torres. De Torres y Moyachoque is also known as the first cartographer of the lands surrounding the capital of the New Kingdom of Granada; Santa Fe de Bogotá.\n\nDe Torres y Moyachoque traveled twice to Spain, first in 1575-1577 and the second journey in the 1580s, where he presented complaints about the mistreatment of the Muisca by the Spanish colonisers to the Spanish King Felipe II. After this travel, he stayed, married and died in Madrid on April 4, 1590.\n\nDiego de Torres y Moyachoque was born in the city of Tunja, former capital of the central Muisca Confederation called Hunza in 1549 from a Spanish conquistador, Juan de Torre(s) and the eldest sister of the previous \"cacique\" whose name is unknown, Catalina Moyachoque. Catalina was approximately 12 years old when she gave birth to Diego de Torres y Moyachoque. He had one sister Beatriz, a half-sister María and a half-brother Pedro de Torre. Beatriz was partner of the former priest of Vélez, Santander, Francisco Sánchez Herreño, to whom she bore a daughter: Francisca González de la Nava y Herreño.\n\nHe studied at the school for mestizo children of conquistadors set up by Diego de Aquila and later at the Dominican Convent (\"Convento de los Dominicos\") in Tunja, where he was educated in grammar, religion, moral and law. The \"cacique\" was also trained in horse-riding and an excellent archer.\n\nDe Torres y Moyachoque inherited the \"cacicazgo\" at age 21/22 in 1571, when his uncle, the former \"cacique\", died. He referred to himself as the \"cacique cristiano\"; (Catholic) Christian \"cacique\".\n\nThe Muisca Confederation was mostly conquered during the Spanish conquest of the Muisca from 1537 to 1540, and the town of Turmequé, at about from Tunja, was submitted by main conquistador Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada on July 20, 1537. In 1574, the \"cacique\" of Turmequé had a dispute with the encomendero of the town, his half-brother Pedro de Torres, son of Juan de Torres and his first Spanish wife Leonor Ruiz Herrezuelos. The dispute was about the mistreatment of the indigenous people under the encomienda rules. The \"cacique\" of Tibasosa Alonso de Silva, also a mestizo, joined De Torres in his resistance. De Torres y Moyachoque traveled from Cartagena in the New Kingdom of Granada to Spain in 1575 to hand over to the King of Spain a series of demands for the rights of the indigenous people of Turmequé. He stranded in Santo Domingo, the capital of the Caribbean and stayed there for almost three years, studying the works of Bartolomé de las Casas, before traveling on to Madrid, where he arrived in 1577.\n\nIn Spain, De Torres y Moyachoque befriended Juan Bautista de Monzón and both traveled back to South America, De Monzón being the new \"visitador\" of the colony. Here, the Spanish colonisers immediately accused both men to work against the Spanish Crown and convicted De Torres y Moyachoque to death. He promptly fled into the mountains of the Altiplano Cundiboyacense, but later returned to Turmequé. In 1578, he made the first map of the Bogotá savanna, including Santa Fe de Bogotá and surrounding settlements, the Bogotá River and Sué rising over the Llanos Orientales.\n\nIn the meantime, in 1581, a new \"visitador\" had arrived with his delegation from Spain, Juan Prieto de Orellana. Diego de Torres presented himself to the new Spanish rulers and was sent again to Spain. There, he presented his \"Memoria de los Agravios\" about the mistreatments of the Muisca to the Spanish King Felipe II in 1584. At these encounters, De Torres y Moyachoque was permitted to be seated instead of kneeling, which was common for visitors to the Spanish King. He was acquitted of the charges, married Juana de Oropesa, and died in the capital of the Spanish kingdom on April 4, 1590 at age 40.\n\nThe story about Diego de Torres y Moyachoque has been told by Juan Rodríguez Freyle in his famous work \"El Carnero\" in 1636, albeit in a different manner. In this book, Rodríguez Freyle, attributed all the conflicts to jealousy over the indigenous women and De Torres y Moyachoque plays a minor part in the story about adultery and corruption.\n\nAlthough he is commonly viewed as a mestizo who was highly hispanised, De Torres y Moyachoque is considered one of the most important Colombian people of the 16th century and in Turmequé a monument honouring the Muisca has been constructed.\n\n"}
{"id": "57297818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57297818", "title": "Drenth", "text": "Drenth\n\nDrenth () is a Dutch toponymic surname indicating an origin in the province of Drenthe. Variant forms are \"Drent\", \"Drenthe\", \"Drenthen\" and \"Van Drenth\". People with this surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "35285875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35285875", "title": "Dénes Lukács (colonel)", "text": "Dénes Lukács (colonel)\n\nDénes Lukács (1816 in Oradea – 1 April 1868 in Nádudvar) was a lieutenant colonel in the Hungarian army and artillery commander.\n\nAs a young officer he taught the young Franz Joseph I of Austria artillery skills, but at the age of 32 he became was the main organiser of the Hungarian artillery during the Hungarian Revolution of 1848 and 1848/49 war of independence. Initially he was a lieutenant, but was promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel in January 1849 in Debrecen. He was not himself involved in frontline combat but was the organizer of artillery production, training of artillerymen and city defenses. He was evacuated as the Austrians advanced, until the Hungarian surrender.\n\nIn 1850 he was sentenced to death, but the sentence was reduced to 16 years' imprisonment of which he eventually served 6. While in the prison at Komárom he became the maker of the first globe in Hungary. Following his release from prison in 1856, he in 1860 became superintendent of an orphanage in Nádudvar till his death.\n"}
{"id": "604486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604486", "title": "Environmental impact statement", "text": "Environmental impact statement\n\nAn environmental impact statement (EIS), under United States environmental law, is a document required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) for certain actions \"significantly affecting the quality of the human environment\". An EIS is a tool for decision making. It describes the positive and negative environmental effects of a proposed action, and it usually also lists one or more alternative actions that may be chosen instead of the action described in the EIS. Several U.S. state governments require that a document similar to an EIS be submitted to the state for certain actions. For example, in California, an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) must be submitted to the state for certain actions, as described in the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). One of the primary authors of the act is Lynton K. Caldwell.\n\nThe purpose of the NEPA is to promote informed decision-making by federal agencies by making \"detailed information concerning significant environmental impacts\" available to both agency leaders and the public. The NEPA was the first piece of legislation that created a comprehensive method to assess potential and existing environmental risks at once. It also encourages communication and cooperation between all the actors involved in environmental decisions, including government officials, private businesses, and citizens.\n\nIn particular, an EIS acts as an enforcement mechanism to ensure that the federal government adheres to the goals and policies outlined in the NEPA. An EIS should be created in a timely manner as soon as the agency is planning development or is presented with a proposal for development. The statement should use an interdisciplinary approach so that it accurately assesses both the physical and social impacts of the proposed development. In many instances an action may be deemed subject to NEPA’s EIS requirement even though the action is not specifically sponsored by a federal agency. These factors may include actions that receive federal funding, federal licensing or authorization, or that are subject to federal control.\n\nNot all federal actions require a full EIS. If the action may or may not cause a significant impact, the agency can first prepare a smaller, shorter document called an Environmental Assessment (EA). The finding of the EA determines whether an EIS is required. If the EA indicates that no significant impact is likely, then the agency can release a finding of no significant impact (FONSI) and carry on with the proposed action. Otherwise, the agency must then conduct a full-scale EIS. Most EAs result in a FONSI. A limited number of federal actions may avoid the EA and EIS requirements under NEPA if they meet the criteria for a categorical exclusion (CATEX). A CATEX is usually permitted when a course of action is identical or very similar to a past course of action and the impacts on the environment from the previous action can be assumed for the proposed action, or for building a structure within the footprint of an existing, larger facility or complex. For example, two proposed sections of Interstate 69 in Kentucky were granted a CATEX from NEPA requirements as these portions of I-69 will be routed over existing freeways requiring little more than minor spot improvements and a change of highway signage. Additionally, a CATEX can be issued during an emergency when time does not permit the preparation of an EA or EIS. An example of the latter is when the Federal Highway Administration issued a CATEX to construct the replacement bridge in the wake of the I-35W Mississippi River Bridge Collapse.\n\nContrary to a widespread misconception, NEPA does not prohibit the federal government or its licensees/permittees from harming the environment, but merely requires that the prospective impacts be understood and disclosed in advance. The intent of NEPA is to help key decisionmakers and stakeholders balance the need to implement an action with its impacts on the surrounding human and natural environment, and provide opportunities for mitigating those impacts while keeping the cost and schedule for implementing the action under control. However, many activities require various federal permits to comply with other environmental legislation, such as the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, Endangered Species Act and Section 4(f) of the Federal Highway Act to name a few. Similarly, many states and local jurisdictions have enacted environmental laws and ordinances, requiring additional state and local permits before the action can proceed. Obtaining these permits typically requires the lead agency to implement the Least Environmentally Damaging Practicable Alternative (LEDPA) to comply with federal, state, and local environmental laws that are ancillary to NEPA. In some instances, the result of NEPA analysis leads to abandonment or cancellation of the proposed action, particularly when the \"No Action\" alternative ends up being the LEDPA.\n\nAn EIS typically has four sections:\nWhile not required in the EIS, the following subjects may be included as part of the EIS or as separate documents based on agency policy.\n\nEvery EIS is required to analyze a No Action Alternative, in addition to the range of alternatives presented for study. The No Action Alternative identifies the expected environmental impacts in the future if existing conditions were left as is with no action taken by the lead agency. Analysis of the No Action Alternative is used to establish a baseline upon which to compare the proposed \"Action\" alternatives.\n\nThe NEPA process is designed to involve the public and gather the best available information in a single place so that decision makers can be fully informed when they make their choices.\n\nThis is the process of EIS\n\n\"Environmental Impact Statement\"\n\nOften, the agencies responsible for preparing an EA or EIS do not compile the document directly, but outsource this work to private-sector consulting firms with expertise in the proposed action and its anticipated effects on the environment. Because of the intense level of detail required in analyzing the alternatives presented in an EIS or EA, such documents may take years or even decades to compile, and often compose of multiple volumes that can be thousands to tens of thousands of pages in length.\n\nTo avoid potential conflicts in securing required permits and approvals after the ROD is issued, the lead agency will often coordinate with stakeholders at all levels, and resolve any conflicts to the greatest extent possible during the EIS process. Proceeding in this fashion helps avoid interagency conflicts and potential lawsuits after the lead agency reaches its decision.\n\nOn exceptionally large projects, especially proposed highway and railroad corridors that cross long distances, the lead agency may use a two-tiered process prior to implementing the proposed action. In such cases, the Tier I EIS would analyze the potential socio-environmental impacts along a general corridor, but would not identify the exact location of where the action would occur. A Tier I ROD would be issued approving the general area where the action would be implemented. Following the Tier I ROD, the approved Tier I area is further broken down into subareas, and a Tier II EIS is then prepared for each subarea, that identifies the exact location of where the proposed action will take place. The preparation of Tier II EISs for each subarea proceeds at its own pace, independent from the other subareas within the Tier I area. For example, parts of the proposed Interstate 69 extension in Indiana and Texas are being studied through a two-tiered process\n\nBy requiring agencies to complete an EIS, the act encourages them to consider the environmental costs of a project and introduces new information into the decision-making process. The NEPA has increased the influence of environmental analysts and agencies in the federal government by increasing their involvement in the development process. Because an EIS requires expert skill and knowledge, agencies must hire environmental analysts. Unlike agencies who may have other priorities, analysts are often sympathetic to environmental issues. In addition, this feature introduces scientific procedures into the political process.\n\nThe differences that exist between science and politics limit the accuracy of an EIS. Although analysts are members of the scientific community, they are affected by the political atmosphere. Analysts do not have the luxury of an unlimited time for research. They are also affected by the different motives behind the research of the EIS and by different perspectives of what constitutes a good analysis. In addition, government officials do not want to reveal an environmental problem from within their own agency.\n\nCitizens often misunderstand the environmental assessment process. The public does not realize that the process is only meant to gather information relevant to the decision. Even if the statement predicts negative impacts of the project, decision makers can still proceed with the proposal.\n\nEnvironmental impact statements presented to citizens and government officials frequently include very precise data. However, the quality and context of the data, such as the margin of error and the range, is omitted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40146545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40146545", "title": "Extreme points of Uruguay", "text": "Extreme points of Uruguay\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Uruguay, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location, and the highest and lowest points.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22847209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22847209", "title": "Functional agrobiodiversity", "text": "Functional agrobiodiversity\n\nBiodiversity on the scale of agricultural fields or landscapes, which provides ecosystem services that support sustainable agricultural production and can also have a positive spin-off to the regional and global environment and society as a whole.\n\nFunctional AgroBiodiversity provides regulating, provisioning and cultural ecosystem services that are essential for human well-being. Positive synergies often exist among regulating, provisioning and cultural services and with biodiversity conservation as can be seen from this conceptual diagram. The green area in the diagram highlights the core focus of the European Learning Network. The red area highlights positive spin-off of Functional AgroBiodiversity to the local (e.g. water quality, recreation) and global environment (e.g. climate change) and society as a whole. The graph is adapted from the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (2005). Supporting services are not included as they are not directly used by the people.\n\nRecently, a project has been initiated which is called 'European Learning Network on Functional AgroBiodiversity', of which the secretariat is held by ECNC. The goal of this network is to exchange knowledge and experience between across country and language borders and between different actors within the field of Functional AgroBiodiversity. \n\n"}
{"id": "15120655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15120655", "title": "Har Hotzvim", "text": "Har Hotzvim\n\nHar Hotzvim (, \"lit\". Stonecutter's Mountain), also Campus of Science-Rich Industries (, \"Kiryat Ta'asiyot Atirot Mada\") is a high-tech industrial park located in northwest Jerusalem. It is the city's main zone for science-based and technology companies, among them Intel, Teva, NDS (now Cisco), RAD Data, Mobileye, Ophir Optronics, Sandvine, Radware, IDT Global Israel, Medtronic, Johnson and Johnson and more. In addition to large companies, the park also hosts about 100 small and medium-sized high-tech companies, as well as a technological incubator. In 2011, Har Hotzvim provided employment for 10,000 people.\n\nThe park was founded in the early 1970s by the Jerusalem Economic Corporation, in order to facilitate the development of a high tech industry in Jerusalem. At the time the location was at the edge of the built up area of the city, but over the years several major roads were built and accessibility to the site was improved; including: the Begin Expressway to the west of the park and Route 9 north of the park. One of the first tenants in the park was Luz Industries an early pioneer of Solar thermal energy, which in the 1980s built the world's largest solar energy generating facility SEGS in the Mojave Desert.\n\nThe first major international corporation to establish a base at Har Hotzvim was Intel, which opened its Fab 8 semiconductor manufacturing plant in 1985.\n\nIn the early 1990s, as Jerusalem was awarded the status of a preferred development zone for the high-tech industry, an expansion plan was initiated by the Jerusalem Development Authority. The expansion took place in three stage (known as Har Hotzvim stage b, c and d) and by the mid 2000s most of the available plots have been developed.\n\nIn 2005, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries opened a new, state-of-the-art pharmaceutical manufacturing plant in Har Hotzvim, at a cost of US$80 million. It initially produced about 4 billion tablets a year, rising to 8 billion a year when the second phase of building was completed.\n\nIn 2008 Intel closed its aging Fab 8 chip plant and started converting the facility to a die preparation plant. The plant was inaugurated in November 2009; the company planned to operate it on Saturdays in accordance with its business needs, requiring continuous operation of the production line. This angered the Haredi Jewish community living in nearby religious neighborhoods, who strictly observe the Sabbath laws. For several weeks they gathered every Saturday outside the building; some threw rocks at the building and the police. Eventually representatives of the Haredi community reached an agreement with Intel to keep the plant open on Saturdays, but allow only non-Jews to work.\n\nIn July 2011 Haredi United Torah Judaism party in the Jerusalem city council proposed to clear the area for new residential development for their community, an offer that was firmly rejected by Jerusalem's mayor Nir Barkat\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52630032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52630032", "title": "Harald Bathelt", "text": "Harald Bathelt\n\nHarald Bathelt is a German-Canadian geographer, currently a Canada Research Chair at University of Toronto.\n"}
{"id": "6610917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6610917", "title": "ISO 19114", "text": "ISO 19114\n\nISO 19114 Geographic information - Quality evaluation procedures provides a procedural framework for evaluating the quality of digital geographic datasets, consistent with the data quality principles defined in ISO 19113. It consists of three classes of conformance: one for quality evaluation, one for evaluating data quality and on for reporting quality information. It is an international standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3237390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3237390", "title": "Kwahu", "text": "Kwahu\n\nKwahu is an Akan group and area, dubbed Asaase Aban or the natural fortress, in view of its national position as the highest habitable elevation. Kwahu lies in the Eastern Region of Ghana, on the west shore of Lake Volta. They share the region with their fellow Akans the Akyems, the Adangbe-Krobos and a small sect of migrant Ewes in the Afram Plains area who double as fishing experts and caretakers in the waterfront zone. There are two common spellings of the name, Kwawu and Kwahu. The \"w\" spelling is the official spelling from the African Studies Centre, University of Ghana, and more resembles the pronunciation. The \"h\" was put in by Swiss missionaries from Basel, who added the \"h\" to ensure that Kwa, the first syllable, was not pronounced as \"eh.\" The \"h\" is not separately pronounced in the name. For Anglo-Germanic speakers, Ku-A-U may be an easier pronunciation help whilst Franco-Roman natives would say KoU-AoU with ease.\n\nThe term Kwahu also refers to the variant of Akan language spoken in this region and to the Kwahu people who come from the region, there are about 1,000,000 Kwahus. Except for a few variations in stress, pronunciation and syntax, there are no markers in the dialect spoken by the Kwahus, who are originally of Ashanti stock, having separated and then migrated from the Sekyere-Efiduase-Mampong area to their present settlement, joining a few others from Akyem and other ancestral Ashanti heartland.\n\nThe name derives from its myths of origin, \"The slave (akoa) died (wu),\" which was based on an ancient prophecy that a slave would die so the wandering tribe of Akan would know where to settle. The myth was part of the historical stories of the Agona matriclan, the first paramount lineage of Kwawu, and was later adopted by the Bretuao-Tena matriclan (Twidan) who later replaced them.\n\nThe paramount king and the royal matrilineage of the Kwawu reside at Abene, north of Abetifi on the banks of the highlands. The strategic location of Abene and a dreaded militia that guarded the route was led by Akwamu warriors who fiercely repelled attempts by colonial forces to capture the Omanhene. Even today, the road from Abetifi to the small enclave housing the king is plied with some unease, given the stories recounted . \n\nUntil their leaders seized upon the opportunities presented with the Bond of 1844, Kwahu was thus an integral part of Ashanti Kingdom and attested by available maps of the period. It is also worthy of note: Ashanti waged punitive and protracted wars against fellow Akans including Denkyira, Akwamu, Akyem, Fanti, Assin but never fought Kwahu.\nAbetifi (Tena matriclan) is the head of the Adonten (vanguard).\nObo (Aduana, Ada, Amoakade) is the head of the Nifa (Right Division)\nAduamoa (Dwumena, Asona) is the head of the Benkum (Left Division).\nPepease is the head of the Kyidom or rear guard division. \n\nAs part of the Asante Empire, Kwawu had an Asante emissary, governor or ambassador at Atibie, next to Mpraeso, of the Ekuona matriclan). To indicate its independence from Asante in 1888 the Kwawu assassinated the Asante emissary in Atibe, about the time of the arrival of the Basel missionaries from Switzerland. Fritz Ramseyer, enroute to Kumasi with his captors, had been granted a few days of rest during a stop at Kwahu and recovered quickly from a bout of fever in the mountains. Upon gaining his freedom later from the Asantehene, he sought permission to build a Christian Mission in Abetifi, thereby placing the town on the world map and opening the area to vocational and evangelical opportunities. Obo, traditionally pro-Ashanti, led the opposition to the Swiss. It is orally told that the Kwahus chose Obo as their financial center.\n\nIn recent years, Kwahu has become the best place to celebrate Easter. Many from far away places within the borders of the country and even beyond go there to enjoy themselves. The Kwahu mountains offer an ideal spot for Paragliders to showcase their skills to the public and to share the thrills of gliding. Such events also serve as Tourist Attractions sites and generates income for the Ghanaian Economy. Characteristics of Kwahu natives are centred on economics, self-sufficiency and an incredible ability to forego short-term or immediate wants in planning for longer-term goals; they are natural-born entrepreneurs.\n\nTrivia: Experts in thrift, the Kwahus surprise with relative success where others fail in any manner of business, from cocoa farming to house front trading and modern service sector or manufacturing industries.\n\nUntil recently, they shunned political activism and are arguably under-represented in government appointments, compared with other Akan groups such as Ashanti, Fanti, Brong or Akyem.\n\nKwahus often wish to spend the retirement years in their mountainous home region and are more likely to marry from their tribal group and invest in a magnificent home. Choice of spouse outside the group often will depend on strategic business calculations and a willingness of the partner to relocate at old age.\n\nKwahus get along relatively well with others but may have special relations with the Ga of Accra who initially welcomed and supported their businesses in the post independence era. A considerable population of Northern migrants and Ewes permanently reside in Kwahu, exercising caretaker functions on lands and farms as their hosts move into the metropolitan areas to engage in micro Start-ups.\n\n"}
{"id": "13113619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13113619", "title": "Lazimpat", "text": "Lazimpat\n\nLazimpat () is a residential area of Kathmandu, the capital city of Nepal. It is close to the Narayanhity Palace, and is well known in Kathmandu for its hotels, restaurants, schools, colleges, embassies and department stores. The neigborhood's name derives from Lazimpat Durbar, that lies in its vicinity and was converted into Hotel Shanker.\n\nLazimpat shares one border with Thamel, a popular tourist hub, and another with Baluwatar, a reputed residential area where the Prime Minister, Chief Justice, and the Chairman of Constitution Assembly reside. Lazimpat is just 20 minutes away from what is downtown of Kathmandu, Newroad and Ason. \n\nThere has been a recent upsurge in the construction activity in the region. Lazimpat boasts the only road connecting the northern part of the Kathmandu valley with the southern part. The roads are very busy, yet until a few years back, there was not much economic activity in the region. Luxury hotels, photo studios, department stores and corner shops have been a special feature of Lazimpat. It is centrally located and is also home to or nearby various embassies.\n\nThere are many hotels, such as Hotel Shanker and Radisson Hotel Nepal, restaurants and sweet shops situated in Lazimpat among vaious shopping outlets.\n\nEmbassies in Lazimpat include the Indian Embassy, the British Embassy, the Israeli Embassy, the French Embassy and the Danish Embassy, but also Nepalese governmental offices, such as the Inland Revenue Department have their premises in the neighborhood.\n\nThe following organisations have their headquarters in Lazimpat:\nBusses of Sajha Yatayat serve Lazimpat. Other private Bus companies also stop at several points in the neighborhood.\n"}
{"id": "55344457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55344457", "title": "List of 1968 Winter Olympics medal winners", "text": "List of 1968 Winter Olympics medal winners\n\nThe 1968 Winter Olympics, officially known as the \"X Olympic Winter Games\", was a winter multi-sport event held in Grenoble, France, from 6 to 18 February 1968. A total of 1,158 athletes representing 37 National Olympic Committees (NOCs) participated in 35 events from 10 different sports and disciplines. The Olympic programme was largely unchanged from four years prior in Innsbruck; one event was added, a relay event in biathlon.\n\nNorway won the most medals, with 14, and the most gold medals with 6.The Soviet Union finished second in both tallies, with 5 golds and 13 medals in total. Of the 37 NOCs to participate at Grenoble, 15 won at least one medal, with 13 of those winning at least one gold medal. East and West Germany entered separate teams for the first time, having competed together in the three prior Winter Olympics. Both nations won gold medals, their first competing as different nations. Czechoslovakia won its first gold Winter Olympics medal, achieved by Jiří Raška in the ski jumping normal hill event. Romania won its first, and as of the 2018 Winter Olympics, only medal in a Winter Olympics in the two-man bobsleigh event.\n\nJean-Claude Killy of France was the most successful athlete at these games, winning all three of the men's alpine skiing events. Two other athletes each won three medals: Sweden's Toini Gustafsson earned two golds and a silver, and Finland's Eero Mäntyranta won a silver and two bronzes. Both of them were competitors in cross-country skiing. Four other athletes—Luciano de Paolis, Ole Ellefsæter, Harald Grønningen, and Eugenio Monti—won two gold medals, and 29 individuals in total won at least two medals in Grenoble. In speed skating, three different events ended with ties for the silver medal position, one, the women's 500 metres ended in a three-way tie for silver. In all three cases, multiple silver medals and no bronze medals were awarded. In figure skating, American Peggy Flemming won the gold medal in ladies' singles; this came a mere seven years after the 1961 crash of Sabena Flight 548 that killed the entire US figure skating team.\n\nAthletes who won three medals or two gold medals during the 1968 Winter Olympics are listed below.\n\n\nGeneral\n\nSpecific\n"}
{"id": "31281444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31281444", "title": "List of English exonyms for Italian toponyms", "text": "List of English exonyms for Italian toponyms\n\nThis list of English exonyms for Italian toponyms is a compilation of Italian toponyms, names of cities, regions, rivers, mountains and other geographical features, in an Italian-speaking area (principally in Italy and Switzerland) which have traditional English exonyms.\n\nThe English exonyms are generally more common than the Italian names. Some lesser-known exonyms have begun to retreat in favour of the endonyms. These are marked below with asterisk.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17756493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17756493", "title": "List of countries by oil production", "text": "List of countries by oil production\n\nThis is a list of countries by oil production, as compiled from the U.S. Energy Information Administration database for calendar year 2016, tabulating all countries on a comparable best-estimate basis. Compared with shorter-term data, the full-year figures are less prone to distortion from periodic maintenance shutdowns and other seasonal cycles. The volumes in the table represent crude oil and lease condensate, the hydrocarbon liquids collected at or near the wellhead. The volumes in the table do not include biofuel. They also do not include the increase in liquid volumes during oil refining (\"refinery gain\"), or liquids separated from natural gas in gas processing plants (natural gas liquids).\nUnder this definition, total world oil production in 2016 averaged 80,622,000 barrels per day. Approximately 68% came from the top ten countries, and an overlapping 44% came from the fourteen current OPEC members, highlighted with blue shading in the table below.\n\nThe top three producers have in recent history been (alphabetically) Russia, Saudi Arabia, and the United States. Each of these countries experienced major production declines at different times in the past, but since 2014 all three have been producing near their peak rates of 9 to 11 million barrels per day. Saudi Arabia and Russia also top the list of oil exporting countries, while Russia is not a member of OPEC. The monthly U.S. oil production reached 10.07 million b/d in November 2017, the highest monthly level of crude oil production in U.S. history. In early 2018, the U.S. government forecast the country will become a net oil and gas exporter by 2022, the first time since 1953.\n"}
{"id": "52183979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52183979", "title": "List of drinks named after places", "text": "List of drinks named after places\n\nThe following drinks were named after places.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "409953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409953", "title": "List of localities in Djibouti", "text": "List of localities in Djibouti\n\nThis is a list of localities in Djibouti ordered by population according to the 2009 census. All settlements with a population over 10,000 are included.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25234721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25234721", "title": "List of museums in Stockholm", "text": "List of museums in Stockholm\n\nThe following is a list of museums in and around Stockholm.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29804046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29804046", "title": "List of songs about Vancouver", "text": "List of songs about Vancouver\n\n"}
{"id": "1588581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1588581", "title": "Lithotope", "text": "Lithotope\n\nA lithotope is either an environment in which a sediment was deposited or an area of uniform sedimentation.\n1. Surface or area of uniform precipitation.\n"}
{"id": "37001809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37001809", "title": "Local border traffic", "text": "Local border traffic\n\nThe local border traffic or small border traffic is the cross-border traffic of the residents of the border area. In many cases local border traffic is subject to bilateral regulation aimed at the simplification of border crossing for these residents.\n\nOften, additional border crossing points are created to carry only local (small) border traffic.\n\nThe European Union rules on local border traffic were established by Regulation (EC) No 1931/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006. \n\nOf the former Communist states, enjoyed a significant freedom of international movement. In 1960, local border traffic on the Yugoslavia — Italy border in Istria registered almost seven million crossings in both directions. In 1977 Yugoslavia had 55 local border traffic agreements with the neighboring countries, including 7 with Italy, 11 with Austria, 8 with Hungary, 10 with Romania, 8 with Bulgaria, 5 with Greece.\n\n"}
{"id": "3405983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3405983", "title": "Louise Arner Boyd", "text": "Louise Arner Boyd\n\nLouise Arner Boyd (September 16, 1887 – September 14, 1972) was an American explorer of Greenland and the Arctic, who wrote extensively of her explorations, and in 1955 became the first woman to fly over the North Pole privately chartering a DC-4 and crew that included aviation pioneer Thor Solberg.\n\nBorn in San Rafael, California to John Franklin Boyd (part-owner of the Bodie gold mine) and Louise Cook Arner, Louise grew up in Marin County and the hills of Oakland playing and competing with her two older brothers, Seth and John. The Boyds were leading citizens of the era and their children's early years, though privileged and relatively carefree, included a well-rounded education that was punctuated every summer by an extended stay on their ranch in the Oakland Hills. It was here where Louise and her brothers rode horses, explored Mount Diablo, fished, hunted, camped, and generally led a rugged and adventurous life. When Louise was a teenager, both of her brothers died from heart disease within a few months of each other. Her parents were devastated and began to lean heavily on Louise for care and comfort. It was at this time that the Boyds bequeathed to the City of San Rafael their former gatehouse and some of the family property as a memorial to their two sons. The Victorian-style building is now offices for the City of San Rafael. After her brother's deaths, Louise traveled extensively with her parents making numerous trips to Europe. In the spring of 1919, Louise took a train to Buffalo, N.Y., purchased a touring car and drove across the United States at a time when there was no highway system and roads were often gravel and dirt. This would be the first of many cross-country trips that she would take and detail in her many journals. Upon her parents death in 1919 and 1920, Louise inherited the family fortune after caring for her parents in the last few years of their lives.\n\nWith her inheritance, Louise Boyd could control her own destiny and indulge her intrepid spirit developed during her active California childhood. She began to travel in the early 1920s, and on a trip to Norway in 1924 she cruised out to sea and saw the Polar Ice Pack for the first time. This experience proved instrumental in her life and she immediately began planning her own Arctic adventure. In 1925, she was presented to the King and Queen of England and soon after, in 1926, she chartered the supply ship \"Hobby\" which had been used by famous explorer Roald Amundsen, for a hunting and filming trip to the Arctic accompanied by her friends the Count & Countess Ribadavia. She gained international notoriety for her exploits (and hunting of polar bears) and was dubbed by newspapers around the world, as the, “Arctic Diana” and “The Girl Who Tamed the Arctic”.\nIn 1928, Boyd was planning a second pleasure trip aboard the \"Hobby\" when it was learned that the famous Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen had recently disappeared in his own attempt to find and rescue the Italian explorer Umberto Nobile. Louise offered her services and the ship to the Norwegian government to search for Amundsen, saying, “How could I go on a pleasure trip when those 22 lives were at stake?” Although she traveled about 10,000 miles (16,100 km) across the Arctic Ocean she found no trace of him. Nevertheless, the Norwegian government awarded her the Chevalier Cross of the Order of Saint Olav. \"She was the first American woman to receive the order and the third woman in the world to be so honored.\" (1)\n\nBoyd is primarily known for leading a series of scientific expeditions to the east and north coast of Greenland in the 1930s. Louise photographed, surveyed and collected hundreds of botanical specimens, having corresponded and learned from her good friend, Alice Eastwood of the California Academy of Sciences. The American Geographical Society published her findings and photographs from the 1933 and 1935 expeditions in a book titled \"The Fiord Region of East Greenland\". An area near the De Geer Glacier was later named Louise Boyd Land.\n\nIn August 1934, after being elected as a delegate to the International Geographical Congress in Warsaw, Poland, Louise set out on a 3-month journey across the Polish countryside photographing and recording the customs, dress, economy and culture of the many ethnic Poles, Ukrainians, Byelorussians and Lithuanians. The journey, by car, rail, boat and on foot took her first from Lviv to Kovel (these towns are in Ukraine today), and then to Kobrin – Pinsk – Kletsk – Nesvizh – Slonim (these towns are in Belarus today). She finished the journey in Vilno. Her travel narrative was supplemented with over 500 photographs and published by the American Geographical Society in 1937 as \"Polish Countrysides\".\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II, the knowledge she had gained in the course of her six previous expeditions to Greenland and the Arctic became of strategic significance and sensitivity. The United States government requested that she not publish the book she was writing about her later 1937 and 1938 expeditions and asked her to lead, for the Department of Commerce National Bureau of Standards, a geophysical expedition along the west coast of Greenland and down the coast of Baffin Island and Labrador. She was appointed as the Bureau's consulting expert on a dollar a year basis. At her own expense, she chartered and outfitted the schooner Effie M. Morrissey. This schooner, owned and commanded by captain Robert Bartlett, had been successfully running yearly scientific expeditions to the Arctic since 1926. The principal purpose of the 1941 Bureau of Standards expedition was to obtain data on radio-wave transmission in the Arctic regions traversed. The ionosphere, geomagnetism and aurorae were studied. The Effie M. Morrissey sailed from Washington DC on June 11, 1941, with Louise Boyd leading a scientific party of four men (including a physician) and a crew of eleven under the command of Capt. Bartlett. The expedition returned to Washington DC on November 3, 1941 with valuable data.\n\nDuring the remainder of the war, Boyd worked on secret assignments for the U.S. Department of the Army and she was awarded, in 1949, a Department of Army Certificate of Appreciation.\n\nHer earlier book that had been held from publication, \"The Coast of Northeast Greenland\", was published after the war, in 1948.\n\nLater in life Louise Boyd was an active and well-known Marin figure and hostess while serving as a member of the Executive Committee of the San Francisco Symphony. She also accumulated many academic honors receiving an honorary law degree from the University of California, Berkeley and from Mills College. She was also the second woman ever to receive the Cullum Medal of the American Geographical Society and in 1960 was the first woman to be elected to their board. She was also made an honorary member of the California Academy of Science. Near the end of her life, Louise experienced financial difficulties and had already spent much of her fortune outfitting and chartering her many explorations. Eventually she had to sell the family home in San Rafael and all her furniture. She died in San Francisco on September 14, 1972.\n\nThe present day Marin History Museum is located in the old Boyd Estate Gatehouse in San Rafael, California and features a permanent exhibition of Louise Boyd photographs, memorabilia and information.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24813870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24813870", "title": "Map Collectors' Circle", "text": "Map Collectors' Circle\n\nThe Map Collectors' Circle was founded in London in April 1963 by Ronald Vere Tooley with a stated aim of \"stimulating interest in and publish material on early printed maps, atlases, cartographers, etc.\" Between 1963 and 1975, it set about fulfilling its second mandate with a series of 110 monographs related to the field of historical cartography which remain of interest to cartographers for their breadth. An index to the series has been created by the Bodleian Library Map Section.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12484043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12484043", "title": "Montagne des Français", "text": "Montagne des Français\n\nThe Montagne des Français Reserve (French for: \"mountain of the French\") is a protected area consisting principally of dry deciduous forest in northern Madagascar. It is part of the larger Ramena protected area complex which also includes Orangea Reserve and the Ambodivahibe Marine Reserve. These three protected areas are currently being created and will be designated in 2008.\nThe Montagne des Français reserve protects deciduous dry forest characteristic of the north of Madagascar. Much of the forest is on a calcareous massif that has been eroded into karst formations known locally as Antsingy. The forested area ranges from 100–450 metres above sea level. This mountain is thought to receive more rain than the surrounding area (Antsiranana receives approximately 1000mm precipitation annually) which explains the lush vegetation in an otherwise very dry bioclimatic zone. Preliminary botanical and zoological inventories have been done that show these forests are rich in both fauna and flora and include a remarkable number of local and regional endemic species. In particular this is one of the best places to see one of the most beautiful baobabs, \"Adansonia suarezensis\" as well as an aloe, \"Aloe suarezensis\", both of which are restricted to this area of northern Madagascar. Other locally endemic plants of interest include the flame tree, \"Delonix regia\", the rare \"Diegodendron humbertii\" that is the only representative of the family Diegodendronaceae and known from only a few dozen individuals, and \"Baudouina solleyformis\", which is used locally as a traditional protection against witchcraft. To date, 242 species from 58 families and 158 genera have been described from the Montagne des Français; the five most important families that account for over 40% of the species are the Rubiaceae, Fabaceae, Malvaceae, Euphorbiaceae and Sapindaceae.\n\nZoological surveys to date have identified 19 species of amphibian, 52 reptile species, 56 birds and 21 mammals. Of the herpetofauna, eight species are endemic to the Montagne des Français, 28 are regional endemics, 2 are listed as globally threatened in IUCN's 2006 Red List and 14 species are CITES listed.\n\nThe main threats to the Montagne des Français are linked to demand for wood-based products from the nearby city of Antsiranana. Logging for timber and charcoal production are the main threats. Unlike most of Madagascar, slash and burn agriculture is not a major threat since most of the remaining forest is on land unsuitable for agriculture.\nSeveral other karst limestone areas are also protected in Madagascar including Tsingy de Bemaraha, Tsingy de Namoroka and the Tsingy d’Ankarana reserve 100 km to the south of Montagne des Français. The current effort to create a new reserve in the Montagne des Francais involves many local organizations and is being headed up by the local regional government with technical support and funding from Conservation International.\n\nThe Montagne des Francais is accessible from the city of Antsiranana (also known as Diego Suarez). The base of a trail leading to the summit can be reached approximately 12 km by road from Antsiranana; a guide is recommended. The trail to the summit takes approximately 2 hours and several viewpoints along the way and at the summit provide views over the Diego Bay. The remains of several fortifications dating from the French colonial period can still be seen. These fortifications and the whole area around Diego were the scene of fierce fighting during World War II between the Vichy French occupiers and British forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "52626024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52626024", "title": "Mýrdalssandur", "text": "Mýrdalssandur\n\nMýrdalssandur () is an outwash plain on the south coast of Iceland.\n\nThe outwash plain is located between the rivers of Kúðafljót in the east and Múlakvísl in the west. Both rivers carry water from the Mýrdalsjökull glacier to the sea.\n\nMýrdalssandur has a -long coast line, including Kötlutangi, the southernmost point of the island of Iceland.\n\nThe Ring Road crosses this flat surface on .\n\nThe outwash plain was built by the numerous jökulhlaups of the Mýrdalsjökull. The last large jökulhlaup was due to an explosive eruption of the Katla volcano under the glacier in 1918, and the water volume at the peak of the jökulhlaup was estimated to be around 200,000 - 300,000 m³/s.\n\nSouth of the road rises Hjörleifshöfði to a height of . The mountain is named after Hjörleifur Hródmarsson. He was the first settler to come to Iceland with Ingólfr Arnarson.\n\nIn the Middle Ages there was a fishing lake called Kerlingarfjörðer at the mouth of the Múlakvísl. Probably it was not a fjord, but rather an extension of a river mouth. The name (isl. Kerling = the old woman) was created according to the land register book, after an old woman had fallen overboard from one of the settler ships and was carried away by the water. Around the year 1000 many farms seem to have found themselves on the Mýrdalssandur. Sources mention four parishes in . These farms were, however, were mostly abandoned up to the 15th century, as a result of volcanic eruptions of the Katla, subsequent glacier runs and ashfall. At the beginning of the 21st century, some farms still exist in Álftaver.\n\nIn 1168 a monks' monastery of the Augustinians was founded in the Þykkvabær í Veri on the Mýrdalssandur. The name was then changed to and the first abbot there was Saint Thorlak. He was later bishop in Skálholt and some of his successors were either bishops there or in Hólar.\n\nIn 1550, with the Reformation, the King of Denmark took over the monastery with all its possessions. The monastery was dissolved, but it still existed for a long time as a rich farm until it was finally abandoned in 1945.\n\nThe area was used as a filming location for the \"Star Wars\" spinoff film \"Rogue One\", representing the planet Lah'mu in the opening scenes of the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "174683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174683", "title": "Naming of the Americas", "text": "Naming of the Americas\n\nThe naming of the Americas, or America occurred shortly after Christopher Columbus's voyage to the Americas in 1492. It is generally accepted that the name derives from Amerigo Vespucci, the Italian explorer, who explored the new continents in the following years. However, some have suggested other explanations, including being named after a mountain range in Nicaragua, or after Richard Amerike of Bristol.\n\nIn modern English, North and South America are generally considered separate continents, and taken together are called \"the Americas\" in the plural, parallel to similar situations such as the Carolinas. When conceived as a unitary continent, the form is generally \"the continent of America\" in the singular. However, without a clarifying context, singular \"America\" in English commonly refers to the United States of America.\n\nThe earliest known use of the name \"America\" dates to April 25, 1507, where it was applied to what is now known as South America. It appears on a small globe map with twelve time zones, together with the largest wall map made to date, both created by the German cartographer Martin Waldseemüller in Saint-Dié-des-Vosges in France. These were the first maps to show the Americas as a land mass separate from Asia. An accompanying book, \"Cosmographiae Introductio\", anonymous but apparently written by Waldseemüller's collaborator Matthias Ringmann, states, \"I do not see what right any one would have to object to calling this part [that is, the South American mainland], after Americus who discovered it and who is a man of intelligence, Amerigen, that is, the Land of Americus, or America: since both Europa and Asia got their names from women\".\n\n\"Americus Vesputius\" was the Latinized version of the Italian explorer Amerigo Vespucci's name, the forename being an old Italianization (compare modern Italian Enrico) of Medieval Latin \"Emericus\" (see Saint Emeric of Hungary), from the Germanic forenames Amalric and Emmerich (however, the Old High German name \"Haimirich\" may also be a source), from Proto-Germanic \"*amal\" (“vigor, bravery”) or \"*heim\" (\"home\") + \"*rik\" (“ruler”).\n\nAmerigo Vespucci (March 9, 1454February 22, 1512) was an Italian explorer, financier, navigator and cartographer who first postulated that Brazil and the West Indies did not represent Asia's eastern outskirts as initially conjectured from Columbus' voyages, but instead constituted an entirely separate landmass hitherto unknown to the Europeans.\n\nVespucci was apparently unaware of the use of his name to refer to the new landmass, as Waldseemüller's maps did not reach Spain until a few years after his death. Ringmann may have been misled into crediting Vespucci by the widely published Soderini Letter, a sensationalized version of one of Vespucci's actual letters reporting on the mapping of the South American coast, which glamorized his discoveries and implied that he had recognized that South America was a continent separate from Asia; in fact, it is not known what Vespucci believed on this count, and he may have died believing, like Columbus, that he had reached the East Indies in Asia rather than a new continent. Spain officially refused to accept the name \"America\" for two centuries, saying that Columbus should get credit, and Waldseemüller's later maps, after Ringmann's death, did not include it; however, usage was established when Gerardus Mercator applied the name to the entire New World in his 1538 world map. Acceptance may have been aided by the \"natural poetic counterpart\" that the name \"America\" made with \"Asia, Africa,\" and \"Europa\".\n\nIn 1875, Jules Marcou suggested that the name America derives from indigenous American languages where \"Amerrique\" originally named a prominent mountain range in present-day Nicaragua.\n\nIn this view, Native speakers shared this indigenous word with Columbus and members of his crew, and Columbus made landfall in the vicinity of these mountains on his fourth voyage. The name America then spread via oral means throughout Europe relatively quickly even reaching the cartographer Waldseemüller who was  preparing a map of newly reported lands for publication in 1507. Waldseemüller's work in the area of denomination takes on a different aspect in this view:The baptismal passage in the \"Cosmographiae Introductio\" has commonly been read as argument, in which the author said that he was naming the newly discovered continent in honor of Vespucci and saw no reason for objections. But, as etymologist Joy Rea has suggested, it could also be read as an explanation, in which he indicates that he has heard the New World was called America, and the only explanation lay in Vespucci's name.\n\nAmong the reasons proponents give in adopting this theory include the recognition of “the simple fact that place names usually originate informally in the spoken word and first circulate that way, not in the printed word.” In addition, Waldseemüller not only is exonerated from the charge of having arrogated to himself the privilege of naming lands, which privilege was reserved to monarchs and actual explorers, but also is freed from the charge of violating the long-established and virtually inviolable ancient European tradition of using only the first name of royal individuals as opposed to the last name of commoners (such as Vespucci) in bestowing names to lands.\n\nA Bristol antiquarian Alfred Hudd suggested in 1908 that the name was derived from the surname \"Amerike\" or \"ap Meryk\" and was used on early British maps that have since been lost. Richard ap Meryk, anglicised to Richard Amerike (or Ameryk) ( 1445–1503) was a wealthy English merchant, royal customs officer and sheriff of Bristol. According to some historians, he was the principal owner of the \"Matthew\", the ship sailed by John Cabot during his voyage of exploration to North America in 1497. The idea that Richard Amerike was a 'principal supporter' of Cabot has gained popular currency in the 21st century. There is no known evidence to support this. Similarly, and contrary to a recent tradition that names Amerike as principal owner and main funder of the \"Matthew\", Cabot's ship of 1497, academic enquiry does not connect Amerike with the ship. Her ownership at that date remains uncertain. Macdonald asserts that caravel was specifically built for the Atlantic crossing.\n\nHudd proposed his theory in a paper which was read at 21 May 1908 meeting of the Clifton Antiquarian Club, and which appeared in Volume 7 of the club's \"Proceedings\". In \"Richard Ameryk and the name America,\" Hudd discussed the 1497 discovery of North America by John Cabot, an Italian who had sailed on behalf of England. Upon his return to England after his first (1497) and second (1498–1499) voyages, Cabot received two pension payments from King Henry VII. Of the two customs officials at the Port of Bristol who were responsible for handing over the money to Cabot, the more senior was Richard Ameryk (High Sheriff of Bristol in 1503). Hudd postulated that Cabot named the land that he had discovered after Ameryk, from whom he received the pension conferred by the king. He stated that Cabot had a reputation for being free with gifts to his friends, such that his expression of gratitude to the official would not be unexpected. Further, Hudd used a quote from a late 15th-century manuscript (a calendar of Bristol events), the original of which had been lost in an 1860 Bristol fire, that indicated the name America was already known in Bristol in 1497. Hudd reasoned that the scholars of the 1507 \"Cosmographiae Introductio\", unfamiliar with Richard Ameryk, assumed that the name America, which he claimed had been in use for ten years, was based on Amerigo Vespucci and, therefore, mistakenly transferred the honour from Ameryk to Vespucci. While Hudd's speculation has found support from some authors, there is no strong evidence to substantiate his theory that Cabot named America after Richard Ameryk.\n\nMoreover, because Amerike's coat of arms was similar to the flag later adopted by the independent United States, a legend grew that the North American continent had been named for him rather than for Amerigo Vespucci. It is not widely accepted.\n\nNaming the continent after a European colonizer is seen by some civil society groups as problematic. In 1977, the World Council of Indigenous Peoples (Consejo Mundial de Pueblos Indígenas) proposed using the term Abya Yala instead of \"America\" when referring to the continent. There are also names in other indigenous languages such as Ixachilan and Runa Pacha. Some scholars have picked up the term with a reference to the illegitimacy of colonialism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14522961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14522961", "title": "Nogales International", "text": "Nogales International\n\nThe Nogales International is a newspaper, based in Nogales, Arizona, United States, and was founded in 1925. It is published on Tuesdays and Fridays and is a division of Wick Communications. Nogales is located on the U.S. - Mexico border. It is 60 miles south of Tucson, Arizona, and 150 miles south of Phoenix, Arizona.\n\nThe Nogales International reports on issues affecting residents of Santa Cruz County, Arizona, including Nogales, Rio Rico, Tumacacori, Tubac, Amado, Patagonia, Sonoita and Elgin. Articles about issues and activities in Nogales, Sonora, Mexico, are also published.\n\n"}
{"id": "32768235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32768235", "title": "Noort", "text": "Noort\n\nNoort is a Dutch surname meaning \"north\". may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48958516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48958516", "title": "Ras Rakan", "text": "Ras Rakan\n\nRas Rakan () is the northernmost point in the Qatari Peninsula, located in Al Shamal. It is the north-western point of an islet called Jazirat Ras Rakan, but as the channel between this islet and the mainland is not passable for boats, Jazirat Ras Rakan may be regarded as forming the northern extremity of the promontory.\n\nThe islet is nearly 1 ½ miles from the shore, and may be reached by wading through low water. The northernmost town of Qatar, Ar Ru'ays, lies 2 ½ miles south-east from the islet. If approached at from a northward direction, Ar Ru'ays becomes visible before Ras Rakan is spotted.\n\nJazirat Ras Rakkan is a very low, T-shaped islet, with tufts of grass on it. There are some small mangroves on the southern side of it. It is nearly 2 miles in length east to west, and extremely narrow. The T-head, at its western end, is 1 mile long.\n"}
{"id": "16612342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16612342", "title": "Reef Check", "text": "Reef Check\n\nReef Check is an international non-governmental organization dedicated to the conservation of two reef ecosystems: tropical coral reefs and Californian rocky reefs. The Foundation is headquartered in Los Angeles, California, United States, but uses data from volunteer scuba diver teams in over 80 countries, ranging from Australia, Japan, to even Germany. It is the United Nations’ official coral reef monitoring program.\n\nReef Check first conducted a global survey of coral reef health in 1997. The data confirmed that coral reefs were in crisis due to overfishing, pollution and other human impacts. The published results in 1999 unsettled the coral biologist community, as the extent of impacts were not realized.\n\n\"The Global Coral Reef Crisis: Trends and Solutions (1997-2001)\", a five-year report on coral reefs, was released in 2002 at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, South Africa. The report used data collected by thousands of volunteers worldwide, and was the first scientific document detailing the decline in coral reef health over a five-year period.\n\nIn 2005, Reef Check launched its first temperate reef program in California.\n\nIn 2006, Reef Check conducted 746 reef surveys, ranging from Indo-Pacific areas, the Red Sea and Caribbean Sea.\n\nIn 2008, in a presentation made at the International Coral Reef Symposium in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Reef Check Executive Director Gregor Hodgson announced that coral reefs in the Indo-Pacific region have largely recovered from the devastating bleaching event that killed up to 90% of corals on some reefs in 1998. He reported that 10 years later, recovery has occurred more quickly and more completely than expected. Caribbean reefs, however, are losing about 3% living coral every four years due to a combination of human impacts.\n\nReef Check endeavors to create partnerships among communities, government agencies, businesses, universities and other non-profits. Reef Check's mission is \"to protect and rehabilitate reefs worldwide\".\n\nReef Check's goals are: \n\nReef Check volunteer divers are trained to study a designated site annually or sometimes quarterly. Underwater surveyors focus chiefly on sessile invertebrates (benthos), along a transect line.\n\nFour spatial replicates (spanning ) are studied with three gaps between. The survey is sub-divided to allow paired divers to separately observe substrate, photograph macroinvertebrates and impacts, record video, and count fishes. A site-specific description is also documented.\n\nReef Check carries out its work through three major programs:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13577720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13577720", "title": "Royal Danish Geographical Society", "text": "Royal Danish Geographical Society\n\nThe Royal Danish Geographical Society (RDGS, ) is a scientific society aimed at furthering the knowledge of the Earth and its inhabitants and to disseminate interest in the science of geography.\n\nIt was founded 18 November 1876 on the initiative of Professor E. D. Erslev. The society is based in Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\nThe society awards the Hans Egede Medal in silver 'preferably for geographical studies and researches in the Arctic countries'. It was established in 1916 and named after Hans Egede, who was a Danish missionary in Greenland.\n\n"}
{"id": "5794294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5794294", "title": "Socioecology", "text": "Socioecology\n\nSocioecology is the scientific study of how social structure and organization are influenced by an organism's environment. Socioecology is primarily related to anthropology, geography, sociology, and ecology. Specifically, the term is used in human ecology, the study of the interaction between humans and their environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "164306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164306", "title": "Stephanus of Byzantium", "text": "Stephanus of Byzantium\n\nStephen of Byzantium, also known as Stephanus Byzantinus (Greek: ; fl. 6th century AD), was the author of an important geographical dictionary entitled \"Ethnica\" (). Of the dictionary itself only meagre fragments survive, but we possess an epitome compiled by one Hermolaus, not otherwise identified.\n\nNothing is known about the life of Stephanus, except that he was a grammarian at Constantinople, and lived after the time of Arcadius and Honorius, and before that of Justinian II. Later writers provide no information about him, but they do note that the work was later reduced to an epitome by a certain Hermolaus, who dedicated his epitome to Justinian; whether the first or second emperor of that name is meant is disputed, but it seems probable that Stephanus flourished in Byzantium in the earlier part of the sixth century AD, under Justinian I.\n\nEven as an epitome, the \"Ethnica\" is of enormous value for geographical, mythological, and religious information about ancient Greece. Nearly every article in the epitome contains a reference to some ancient writer, as an authority for the name of the place. From the surviving fragments, we see that the original contained considerable quotations from ancient authors, besides many interesting particulars, topographical, historical, mythological, and others. Stephanus cites Artemidorus, Polybius, Aelius Herodianus, Herodotus, Thucydides, Xenophon, Strabo and other writers.\n\nThe chief fragments remaining of the original work are preserved by Constantine Porphyrogennetos, \"De administrando imperio\", ch. 23 (the article \"Ίβηρίαι δύο\") and \"De thematibus\", ii. 10 (an account of Sicily); the latter includes a passage from the comic poet Alexis on the \"Seven Largest Islands\". Another respectable fragment, from the article \"Δύμη\" to the end of \"Δ\", exists in a manuscript of the Fonds Coislin, the library formed by Pierre Séguier.\n\nThe first modern printed edition of the work was that published by the Aldine Press in Venice, 1502. The complete standard edition is still that of Augustus Meineke (1849, reprinted at Graz, 1958), and by convention, references to the text use Meineke's page numbers. A new completely revised edition in German is in preparation, however, edited by B. Wyss, C. Zubler, M. Billerbeck, J.F. Gaertner, 2006 onwards, with four volumes already published.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24883560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24883560", "title": "Subdivisions of Sudan", "text": "Subdivisions of Sudan\n\nSudan is divided into fifteen states (\"wilayat\", sing. \"wilayah\") which in turn are subdivided into 86 districts. Before the secession of South Sudan on July 9, 2011, Sudan was the largest country in Africa and had 25 states.\n"}
{"id": "24142446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24142446", "title": "Sustainable landscaping", "text": "Sustainable landscaping\n\nSustainable landscaping encompasses a variety of practices that have developed in response to environmental issues. These practices are used in every phase of landscaping, including design, construction, implementation and management of residential and commercial landscapes.\n\nSustainability issues for landscaping include:\n\nNon-sustainable practices include:\n\nSome of the effects of non-sustainable practices are: Severe degradation of the surrounding ecosystem; harm to human health, especially in the case of degraded drinking water supplies; harm to flora and fauna and their habitats; sedimentation of surface waters caused by stormwater runoff; chemical pollutants in drinking water caused by pesticide runoff; health problems caused by toxic fertilizers including effects on marine and aquatic ecosystems , toxic pesticides, improper use, handling, storage and disposal of pesticides; air and noise pollution caused by landscape equipment; invasion of wild lands by non-native weeds and insect pests; and over-use of limited natural resources.\n\nSome of the solutions being developed are:\n\n\n\nA sustainable landscape is designed to be both attractive and in balance with the local climate and environment and it should require minimal resource inputs. Thus, the design must be “functional, cost-efficient, visually pleasing, environmentally friendly and maintainable\" As part of the concept called sustainable development it pays close attention to the preservation of limited and costly resources, reducing waste and preventing air, water and soil pollution. Landscape Maintenance practices greatly influence the waste produced and the cost of the maintenance itself; such as using electric or gas hedge trimmers which degrade plant material rather than using hand shears which create plant longevity, reduce the amount of waste over time, and prevent the misshaping of plant material and eliminates the \"Balls and Boxes that unskilled gardeners create.(James Deagan, Prof Cal Poly Pomona Lecture 1980), In addition, compost, fertilization, grass cycling, pest control measures that avoid or minimize the use of chemicals, integrated pest management, using the right plant in the right place, appropriate use of turf, irrigation efficiency and xeriscaping or water-wise gardening are all components of sustainable landscaping.\n\nThe geographic location can determine what is sustainable due to differences in precipitation and temperature. For example, the California Waste Management Board emphasizes the link between minimizing environmental damage and maximizing one’s bottom line of urban commercial landscaping companies. In California, the benefits of landscapes often do not outweigh the cost of inputs like water and labor. However, using appropriately selected and properly sited plants may help to ensure that maintenance costs are lower than they otherwise would be due to reduced chemical and water inputs.\n\nThere are several programs in place that are open to participation by various groups. For example, the Audubon Cooperative Sanctuary Program for Golf Courses, the Audubon Green Neighborhoods Program, the National Wildlife Federation’s Backyard Habitat Program, and the Northeast Organic Farming Association Organic Land Care Program, to name a few.\n\nThe Sustainable Sites Initiative, the cooperative effort between the American Society of Landscape Architects, the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center and the United States Botanic Garden, began in 2005 and will provide a points-based certification for landscapes, similar to the LEED program for buildings operated by the Green Building Council. The Sustainable Sites Initiative now has a document titled Guidelines and Performance Benchmarks. The credit system is expected to be completed in 2011.\n\nThe primary step to landscape design is to do a \"sustainability audit\". This is similar to a landscape site analysis that is typically performed by landscape designers at the beginning of the design process. Factors such as lot size, house size, local covenants and budgets should be considered. The steps to design include a base plan, site inventory and analysis, construction documents, implementation and maintenance. Of great importance is considerations related to the growing conditions of the site. These include orientation to the sun, soil type, wind flow, slopes, shade and climate. The goal of reducing artificial irrigation (such as preventing irrigation of landscapes leaving the Los Angeles Basin a Desert again), and reducing use of toxic substances and requires proper plant selection for the specific site.\n\nComposting is a way to recycle kitchen and garden waste while creating inexpensive organic fertilizer for the garden and landscape. Earthworms, microbes and other soil microorganisms feast on such organic matter when provided adequate nitrogen and proper temperatures and moisture. The ideal size for a compost pile or bin is one cubic yard (3' x 3' x 3'). It should be placed in a partly shady location to avoid intense sun and drying out, as this will delay the decomposition process. The pile heats up during the decomposition process, then cools as material is transformed; this is a good time to turn the pile, so that uncomposed materials on the periphery of the pile can be moved to the center to complete the process. With adequate moisture, nitrogen, proper temperature and correct timing of turning the pile, compost can be made in about a 30-day period. Left alone this process will still occur, but may take three to four months under less-than-ideal conditions.\n\nCompost can be added as an amendment to poorly draining soil, as a fertilizer on flower and vegetable beds, to fruit trees or used as a potting soil for potted plants. Trimmings from lawns, trees and shrubs from a large landscape site can be used as feedstock for on-site composting. Reusing on-site organic materials will decrease the need for purchasing other soil additives.\n\nMulch may be used to reduce water loss due to evaporation, reduce weeds, minimize erosion, dust and mud problems. Mulch can also add nutrients to the soil when it decomposes. However, mulch is most often used for weed suppression. Over use of mulch can result in harm to the selected plantings. Care must be taken in the source of the mulch, for instance, black walnut trees result in a toxic mulch product. Grass cycling turf areas (using mulching mowers that leave grass clippings on the lawn) will also decrease the amount of fertilizer needed, reduce landfill waste and reduce costs of disposal.\n\nA common recommendation is to adding 2-4 inches of mulch in flower beds and under trees away from the trunk. Mulch should be applied under trees to the dripline (extension of the branches) in lieu of flowers, hostas, turf or other plants that are often planted there. This practice of planting under trees is detrimental to tree roots, especially when such plants are irrigated to an excessive level that harms the tree. One must be careful not to apply mulch to the bark of the tree. It can result in smothering, mold and to insect depredation.\n\nThe practice of xeriscaping or water-wise gardening suggests that placing plants with similar water demands together will save time and low-water or drought tolerant plants would be a smart initial consideration.\n\nA homeowner may consider consulting an accredited irrigation technician/auditor and obtain a water audit of current systems. In the event that the situation is difficult to manage, drip or sub-surface irrigation may be most effective. If the system has been in use for over five years, upgrading to evapotranspiration (ET) controllers, soil sensors and refined control panels will improve the system. Often irrigation heads are in need of readjustment to avoid sprinkling on sidewalks or streets. Business owners may consider developing watering schedules based on historical or actual weather data and soil probes to monitor soil moisture prior to watering.\n\nWhen deciding what kind of building materials to put on a site it is important to recycle as often as possible. Reusing old bricks from sidewalks as patio pavers is one way to provide an aesthetic appeal to an area while reducing what goes to the landfill.\n\nBut it is also important to be careful about what materials you use, especially if you plan to grow food crops of any kind. Old telephone poles and railroad ties have usually been treated with a substance called creosote that can leach into the soils and make any food grown there toxic enough to cause harm to anyone that eats it. In general, you should avoid any kind of treated material, especially wood, that could leach into the soil with rain.\n\nThe Forest Stewardship Council (http://www.fscus.org/) was formed in 1993 \"to change the dialogue about and the practice of sustainable forestry worldwide.\" Sustainably harvested lumber - also called certified wood is now available, in which ecological, economic and social factors are integrated into the management of trees used for lumber. A chain of custody document is used in the certification process.\n\nOne important part of sustainable landscaping is plant selection. Most of what makes a landscape unsustainable is the amount of inputs required to grow a non-native plant on it. What this means is that a local plant, which has adapted to local climate conditions will require less work on the part of some other agent to flourish. For example, it does not make sense to grow tomatoes in Arizona because there is not enough natural rainfall for them to survive without constant watering. Instead, drought-tolerant plants like succulents and cacti are better suited to survive. Also, by choosing native plants, one can avoid certain problems with insects and pests because these plants will also be adapted to deal with any local invader. The bottom line is that by choosing the right kind of local plants, a great deal of money can be saved on amendment costs, pest control and watering.\n\nPlants used as windbreaks can save up to 30% on heating costs in winter. They also help with shading a residence or commercial building in summer, create cool air through evapo-transpiration and can cool hardscaped areas such as driveways and sidewalks.\n\nA house surrounded by local trees or bushes enjoys multiple benefits. Plants release water vapor in the air through transpiration and water has the ability to reduce temperature extremes in the areas near it (as it boasts very high heat capacity). The larger and more leafy the plant, the most water vapor it produces. Additionally, the presence of trees is crucial in the creation of stable, healthy and productive ecosystems (such as forests). In fact this is an important principle of permaculture.\n\nIf the surrounding trees are chosen to produce edible fruit they can provide a sustainable food source for the occupants of the house. Even if some are fairly demanding (especially in the summer), irrigation is an excellent end-use option in greywater recycling and rainwater harvesting systems, and a composting toilet can cover (at least) some of the nutrient requirements. Research suggests that diluted human urine might be as effective as chemical fertilizers. Not all fruit trees are suitable for greywater irrigation, as reclaimed greywater is typically of high pH and acidophile plants don't do well in alkaline environments.\n\nAn intelligent choice for direct energy conservation would be the placement of broadleaf deciduous trees near the east, west and optionally north-facing walls of the house. Such selection provides shading in the summer while permitting large amounts of heat-carrying solar radiation to strike the house in the winter. The trees are to be placed as closely as possible to the house walls but no closer than 1 meter - otherwise the roots can cause substantial foundation damage. A sustainable house will most likely be equipped with south-facing (north-facing in the S. hemisphere) photovoltaic panels and a large, south-facing glazing as a result of passive solar heating design. As the efficiency of both systems is very sensitive to shading, experts suggest the complete absence of trees near the south side.\n\nAnother intelligent choice would be that of a dense vegetative fence composed of evergreens (e.g. conifers) near that side from which cold continental winds blow (usually north in the N. hemisphere) and also that side from which the prevailing winds blow (west in temperate regions of both hemispheres). Since north winds are most cold and westerlies blow most often, such choice creates an effective winter windbarrier that prevents very low temperatures outside the house and reduces air infiltration towards the inside. Calculations show that placing the windbrake at a distance twice the height of the trees can reduce the wind velocity by 75%. It then follows that, with some planning, both arrangements (deciduous and evergreen) can be applied simultaneously.\n\nThe above vegetative arrangements come with two disadvantages. Firstly, they minimize air circulation in summer (although in many climates heating is more important and costly than cooling) and, secondly, they may affect the efficiency of photovoltaic panels, thus prompting the need for a shading analysis. However, it has been estimated that if both arrangements are applied properly, they can reduce the overall house energy usage by up to 22%.\n\nPest Problems\n\nMaintaining plant health will eliminate most pest problems. It is best to start with pest-free plant materials and supplies and close inspection of the plant upon purchase is also recommended. Establishing diversity within the area of plant species will encourage beneficial organism populations (e.g. birds, insects), which feed on potential plant pests. Attracting a wide variety of organisms with a variety of host plants has shown to be effective in increasing pollinator presence in agrarian settings . Because plant pests vary from plant to plant, assessing the problem correctly is half the battle. The owner must consider whether the plant can tolerate the damage caused by the pest. If not, then does the plant value justify some sort of treatment? While pesticide is often chosen to solve the problem, physical barriers and repellents may help. If pesticides are the chosen method, selective organic or natural pesticide is often better because it has less impact on non-target species. \n\nPruning\n\nProper pruning will increase air circulation and decrease the likelihood of plant diseases. However, improper pruning is detrimental to shrubs and trees. Hedging, topping and shearing of landscape plants causes excessive plant growth. In addition, topping is a hazardous practice which creates a hazardous tree which is highly susceptible to wind damage. Natural pruning techniques during the proper season, on the other hand, promotes healthier, more stable plants. In temperate areas, deciduous plants should be pruned during dormancy. Plants should never be pruned at the end of a growing season because growth is stimulated and such new growth will be too tender to survive winter freezing temperatures.\n\nPollution Prevention\n\nLandscape managers should make use of the Integrated Pest Management (IPM) to reduce use of pesticides and herbicides and reduce non-point source solution. As there is considerable debate on the safety levels of nitrates and the impact of fertilizer run-off, more studies are needed in order to determine if the risks justify the outcomes of applying nitrate-ladden fertilizers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11122031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11122031", "title": "Ur (root)", "text": "Ur (root)\n\nUr is the Basque word for 'water'.\n\nThis root may be found in many place names and some derivates as:\nand probably:\n"}
{"id": "87637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87637", "title": "Will Self", "text": "Will Self\n\nWilliam Woodard Self (born 26 September 1961) is an English novelist, journalist, political commentator and television personality.\n\nSelf is the author of eleven novels, five collections of shorter fiction, three novellas, and five collections of non-fiction writing. His work has been translated into 22 languages; his 2002 novel \"Dorian, an Imitation\" was longlisted for the Booker Prize, and his novel \"Umbrella\" was shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize. His fiction is known for being satirical, grotesque, and fantastical, and is predominantly set within his home city of London. His subject matter often includes mental illness, illegal drugs and psychiatry.\n\nSelf is a regular contributor to publications including \"The Guardian\", \"Harper's\", \"The New York Times\" and the \"London Review of Books\". He currently writes a column for the \"New Statesman\", and over the years he has been a columnist for the \"Observer\", \"The Times\", and the \"Evening Standard\". His columns for \"Building Design\" on the built environment, and for the \"Independent Magazine\" on the psychology of place brought him to prominence as a thinker concerned with the politics of urbanism.\n\nSelf is a regular contributor on British television, initially as a guest on comic panel shows such as \"Have I Got News for You\". In 2002, Self replaced Mark Lamarr on the anarchic BBC comedy panel show \"Shooting Stars\" for two series, but was himself replaced by comedian Jack Dee when the programme returned in 2008. He has since appeared on current affairs programmes such as \"Newsnight\" and \"Question Time\". Self is also a frequent contributor to the BBC Radio 4 programme A Point of View, to which he contributes radio essays delivered in his familiar \"lugubrious tones\". In 2013, Self was in talks to become the inaugural BBC Radio 4 Writer-in-Residence, but later backed out of the talks.\n\nSelf was born at Charing Cross hospital in London and brought up in north London, between the suburbs of East Finchley and Hampstead Garden Suburb. His parents were Peter John Otter Self, Professor of Public Administration at the London School of Economics, and Elaine Rosenbloom, from Queens, New York, who worked as a publisher's assistant. His paternal grandfather, Sir Albert Henry Self, with working class origins in Fulham, was a high-ranking civil servant and President of the Modern Churchmen's Union, who was also deputy chairman of the British Electricity Authority and Chairman of the Electricity Council. He is also descended from the 19th century educationalist Nathaniel Woodard, hence his middle name. As a child, Self spent a year living in Ithaca in upstate New York.\n\nSelf's parents separated when he was nine, and divorced when he was 18. Despite the intellectual encouragement given by his parents, he was an emotionally confused and self-destructive child, harming himself with cigarette ends and knives before getting into drugs.\n\nSelf was a voracious reader from a young age. When he was ten, he developed an interest in works of science fiction such as Frank Herbert's \"Dune\" and those of J. G. Ballard and Philip K. Dick. Into his teenage years, Self claimed to have been \"overawed by the canon\", stifling his ability to express himself. Nevertheless, Self's dabbling with drugs grew in step with his prolific reading. Self started smoking marijuana at the age of 12, graduating through amphetamines, cocaine, and LSD to heroin, which he started injecting at 18. Self struggled with mental health issues during this period, and at the age of 20 became a hospital outpatient.\n\nSelf attended University College School, an independent school for boys in Hampstead. He later attended Christ's College, Finchley, from where he went to Exeter College at the University of Oxford, reading Philosophy, Politics and Economics, graduating with a third class degree. He claims to have only attended two lectures. At Oxford he became editor of and frequent contributor to an underground left-wing student newspaper called Red Herring/Oxford Strumpet, copies of which are archived in the Bodleian Library. His reasons for reading PPE rather than English literature were discussed by Self in an interview with \"The Guardian\" newspaper:I [had] a pretty thorough grounding in the canon, but I certainly didn't want to be involved with criticism. Even then it seemed inimical to what it was to be a writer, which is what I really wanted to be.\n\nOf Self's background Nick Rennison has written that he:\nis sometimes presented as a bad-boy outsider, writing, like the Americans William S Burroughs and Hubert Selby Jr, about sex, drugs and violence in a very direct way. Yet he is not some class warrior storming the citadels of the literary establishment from the outside, but an Oxford educated, middle-class metropolitan who, despite his protestations to the contrary in interviews, is about as much at the heart of the establishment as you can get, a place he has occupied almost from the start of his career.\n\nAfter graduating from Oxford, Self worked for the Greater London Council, including a period as a road sweeper, while living in Brixton. He then pursued a career as a cartoonist for the \"New Statesman\" and other publications and as a stand-up comedian. He moved to Gloucester Road around 1985. In 1986 he entered a treatment centre in Weston-super-Mare, where he claimed that his heroin addiction was cured. In 1989, \"through a series of accidents\", he \"blagged\" his way into running a small publishing company.\n\nThe publication of his short story collection \"The Quantity Theory of Insanity\" brought him to public attention in 1991. Self was hailed as an original new talent by Salman Rushdie, Doris Lessing, Beryl Bainbridge, A. S. Byatt, and Bill Buford. In 1993 he was nominated by \"Granta\" magazine as one of the 20 \"Best Young British Novelists\". Conversely, Self's second book, \"My Idea of Fun\", was \"mauled\" by the critics.\n\nSelf joined the \"Observer\" as a columnist in 1995. He gained negative publicity in 1997 when he was sent to cover the election campaign of John Major and was caught by a rival journalist using heroin on the Prime Minister's jet, and was fired as a result. At the time, he argued \"I'm a hack who gets hired because I do drugs\". He joined the \"Times\" as a columnist in 1997. In 1999 he left \"Times\" to join the \"Independent on Sunday\", which he left in 2002 for the \"Evening Standard\".\n\nHe has made many appearances on British television, especially as a panellist on \"Have I Got News for You\" and as a regular on \"Shooting Stars\". Since 2008 Self has appeared five times on \"Question Time\". He stopped appearing in \"Have I Got News for You\", stating the show had become a \"pseudo\"-panel show.\n\nSince 2009, Self has written two alternating fortnightly columns for the \"New Statesman\". \"The Madness of Crowds\" explores social phenomena and group behaviour, and in \"Real Meals\" he reviews high street food outlets.\n\nIn 2012, Self was appointed Professor of Contemporary Thought at Brunel University. In July 2012, Self received his first Man Booker Prize longlist nomination for \"Umbrella\", which \"The Daily Telegraph\" described as \"possibly Self's most ambitious novel to date\". The book was later placed on the prize shortlist.\n\nFor a May 2014 article in \"The Guardian\", Self wrote: \"the literary novel as an art work and a narrative art form central to our culture is indeed dying before our eyes\", explaining in a July 2014 article that his royalty income had decreased \"dramatically\" over the previous decade. The July article followed the release of a study of the earnings of British authors that was commissioned by the Authors' Licensing and Collecting Society.\n\nIn January 2015, Self began a 50 km walking tour of the Large Hadron Collider at CERN near Geneva for BBC Radio 4, invited by physicist Akram Khan to \"feel the wonder\" of particle physics.\n\nHe featured in the 2016 documentary The Future of Work and Death \n\nAccording to M. Hunter Hayes, Self has given his reason for writing as follows: \"I don't write fiction for people to identify with and I don't write a picture of the world they can recognise. I write to astonish people.\" \"What excites me is to disturb the reader's fundamental assumptions. I want to make them feel that certain categories within which they are used to perceiving the world are unstable.\"\n\nThe influences on his fiction mentioned most frequently include J. G. Ballard whom he considers \"a great mentor\", William Burroughs and Hunter S. Thompson. He has cited influences such as Jonathan Swift, Alasdair Gray, Franz Kafka, Lewis Carroll, Joseph Heller and Louis-Ferdinand Céline as formative influences on his writing style.\n\nZack Busner is a recurring character in Self's fiction, appearing in the short story collections \"The Quantity Theory of Insanity\", \"Grey Area\" and \"Dr. Mukti and Other Tales of Woe\", as well as in the novels \"Great Apes\", \"The Book of Dave\", \"Umbrella\" and \"Shark\". Busner is a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst practising in London, and is prone to self-promotion at the expense of his patients. He is often the antagonist of the stories he appears in, although not always with villainous intent.\n\nAmong Self's admirers is the American critic Harold Bloom. Journalist Stuart Maconie has described him as \"that rarity in modern cultural life, a genuine intellectual with a bracing command of words and ideas who is also droll, likeable and culturally savvy.\"\n\nIn the 2015 UK general election, Self voted Labour in a general election first time since 1997. In May 2015, he wrote in \"The Guardian\": \"No, I'm no longer a socialist if to be one is to believe that a socialist utopia is attainable by some collective feat of will – but I remain a socialist, if by 'socialism' is understood an antipathy to vested interests and privileges neither deserved nor earned, and a strong desire for a genuinely egalitarian society.\" In March 2017, he wrote in the \"New Statesman\": \"Nowadays I think in terms of compassionate pragmatism: I'll leave socialism to Žižek and the other bloviators.\"\n\nIn July 2015, Self endorsed Jeremy Corbyn's campaign in the Labour Party leadership election. He said during a \"Channel 4 News\" interview that Corbyn represents a useful ideological divide within Labour, and could lead to the formation of a schism in the party.\n\nSelf's mother died in 1988. He was married from 1989 to 1997 to Kate Chancellor. They have two children, a son Alexis and a daughter Madeleine. They lived together in a terraced house just off the Portobello Road. In 1997, Self married journalist Deborah Orr, with whom he has sons Ivan and Luther. In 2017, Orr and Self separated, and Self was living in a rented flat in Stockwell. Self has stated that he has abstained from drugs, except for caffeine and nicotine, since 1998. He sent his children to private schools, due to his children being bullied at state schools in Lambeth.\n\nHe has described himself as a psychogeographer and modern flâneur and has written about walks he has taken. In December 2006, he walked 26 miles from his home in South London to Heathrow Airport. Upon arriving at Kennedy Airport he walked 20 miles from there to Manhattan. In August 2013, Self wrote of his anger following an incident in which he was stopped and questioned by police in Yorkshire while out walking with one of his sons, on suspicion of being a paedophile. The police were alerted by a security guard at Bishop Burton College. He had asked the security guard for permission to cross the school grounds.\n\nSelf is 6' 5\" tall, collects vintage typewriters and smokes a pipe. His brother is the author and journalist Jonathan Self.\n\n\n\n\nSelf has also compiled several books of work from his newspaper and magazine columns which mix interviews with counter-culture figures, restaurant reviews and literary criticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26961679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26961679", "title": "William Channing Woodbridge", "text": "William Channing Woodbridge\n\nWilliam Channing Woodbridge (December 8, 1794November 9, 1845) was an American geographer, educational reformer, and the author of many geography textbooks.\n\nWoodbridge's father, William Woodbridge, was a Yale University graduate, minister, and a major advocate for educational change in Connecticut. The senior Woodbridge wrote textbooks on grammar and spelling, and was the first preceptor of Phillips Exeter Academy. He worked with his son on some of the younger Woodbridge’s projects. His mother was Ann Channing, the aunt of Bostonian Unitarian theologian William Ellery Channing.\n\nWilliam Channing Woodbridge was born in Medford, Massachusetts. His family soon moved to Connecticut, where his parents taught him Latin, Greek, chemistry and mathematics. Throughout his life, he suffered from what was then called scrofula, which today would probably be diagnosed as tuberculosis.\n\nIn June 1808, Woodbridge entered Yale as the youngest member of his freshman class. Here, he was inspired by Yale College's president, Timothy Dwight IV. Woodbridge developed an interest in both the American landscape and in the publication of geographies, and was a member of the Society of Brothers in Unity. Many of the values later reflected in his publications were those of Yale at this time. Woodbridge was a true son of the Enlightenment, believing in the importance of reason and observation. However, like Dwight he remained a committed evangelical Christian. Woodbridge rejected the Unitarian ideas which were then influencing so many of his friends and relatives. He believed passionately in science, but he was certain that this knowledge of the material world could only lead people closer to God and to a firmer morality. He believed in the essential unity of all humans. After discussing the location of the various races of mankind, his 1830 edition of \"Rudiments of Geography\" reminds readers, “The scriptures inform us that all of these races are brethren of the same family; the children of the same first parents.”\n\nUpon graduation, Woodbridge briefly attended Princeton University with the hope of studying theology and becoming a missionary. When ill health made this impossible, he turned to teaching. Eventually, he accepted a position as an instructor with Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet at the Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb in Hartford, Connecticut. Here, he pioneered in teaching geography to the disabled. Woodbridge also began work on a small geography text which would eventually be published as \"Rudiments of Geography\".\n\nIn October 1820, Woodbridge left his teaching job and traveled to Europe. He was desperate to improve his health and keen to meet prominent European educators and visit their schools. He also wanted to gather material for an expanded geography. He traveled via Gibraltar and Algeciras to Palermo, Livorno, and Rome. He returned to Hartford in July 1821, where he began writing a new and greatly expanded geography that would incorporate what he had learned in Europe. It was eventually published 1824 as \"A System of Universal Geography\". The book would remain in print, with small variations in title, until 1866.\n\nFor Woodbridge, understanding European thinkers was critical to improving American education. In the fall of 1824, he left the United States for a second and more extended trip across the Atlantic. The small amount of money he earned from books was insufficient to support even his very humble lifestyle. Therefore, he supplemented his earnings by teaching the disabled. For all of his admiration of European educators and geographers, he decided they were behind the United States in two areas: female education and teaching the disabled. Woodbridge spent the summer of 1826 teaching in Hofwil, Switzerland, where Philipp Emanuel von Fellenberg had established an influential experimental school. Woodbridge was in Paris in January 1827, correcting proofs of his new geography textbook. He had made the acquaintance of the great German explorer, scholar, and student of physical geography Alexander von Humboldt. Woodbridge continued to correspond with von Humboldt and incorporated many of von Humboldt’s ideas in his geographies. In the introduction to his new geography text he thanked von Humboldt and the Geographical Society of Paris for their assistance. Woodbridge then went back to Hofwyl, probably sometime in 1828, before returning to New England in 1829.\n\nWhile on his second trip to Europe, Woodbridge observed the teaching of vocal music by Nägeli, Pfeiffer, Kübler and others, and brought home many of their works with him. Upon his return to Hartford, he began working with Elam Ives, Jr. to see those Pestalozzian-based teaching methods applied. Their experiment was apparently successful. During this same time, Woodbridge had gone to Boston and met Lowell Mason, whom he persuaded to go and observe Ives' experiments in Hartford.\n\nWoodbridge left Hartford in 1830 and discontinued his relationship with Ives. Instead, he supported Mason (who—at least initially—adopted many of his imported methods) through the Boston Academy of Music, of which he was the corresponding secretary. His promotion of Mason through lectures in Boston and through his \"American Annals of Education\" eventually helped Mason win support to introduce music education into the Boston public schools, a feat which William Alcott would say was \"a service which alone would have made him a public benefactor.\"\n\nIt was in Hartford, in the spring of 1830, that Woodbridge met William A. Alcott. Alcott would later remember the meeting, writing that he had entered a tavern, just as Woodbridge was leaving. He asked the publican who that was and was told that it was William Channing Woodbridge, who was a great friend of education. Alcott followed Woodbridge down the street and introduced himself. He was astonished when Woodbridge responded to the introduction with a question; \"what is the great practical error in all of our school education?\" Without hesitation, Alcott replied that it was,”the strange effort to crowd the intellect at the expense of health, morals, and everything else.” These words, Alcott wrote, “bound as friends for life.” By 1831, Woodbridge had shifted his base of operations from Hartford to Boston. The first joint effort of Woodbridge and Alcott was the publication of an improved educational journal. In 1831, Woodbridge purchased the American Journal of Education, which was renamed the Annals of Education. Over the next five years Alcott and Woodbridge contributed many articles and textbook reviews to the Annals. Woodbridge and Alcott filled the Annals with a wide range of articles on educational topics, reflected on developments in Europe, and pressed for educational reform. They were particularly concerned with women’s education and with incorporating the ideas of Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi and the French reformer Joseph Jocotot into American schools, both of whom had stressed the importance of observation and of geography. By the time hard times swept away their control of the Annals in 1836, its reputation as the leading American educational publication was firmly established.\n\nFor some time Woodbridge had also been associated with Emma Willard. Together they worked on many geography texts. Their complex publication efforts had begun in the early 1820s. When both were growing up, their families lived within five miles of each other in Connecticut. Both shared a passionate interest in causes like educational reform and the education of women. Because it had originally been intended to publish Woodbridge’s Rudiments of Geography with an early geography by Willard, and because Willard’s Ancient Geography was eventually published with Woodbridge’s work as Universal Geography, there was considerable confusion about the role of each author. Emma Willard had to publicly assure readers that the “system of modern geography” had been entirely written and arranged by Woodbridge. Their various combined geographies proved to be very successful. By 1827, they had reached an arrangement to pool and split royalties; Woodbridge would get five sevenths of the money and Willard would receive two sevenths. This seems to have reflected their relative contributions. Woodbridge seems to have done most of the updating as well as handling many of the financial arrangements with the publishers. Throughout Woodbridge’s life the two authors remained on cordial terms. Kimberly Tolley has recently argued that the Woodbridge and Willard geographies, with their strong emphasis on field work and observation, were important in encouraging American women to develop an interest in science and Daniel H. Calhoun has made the case for their importance in the world view of Americans in the Jacksonian era.\n\nIn 1834 Woodbridge presented and later published ”On the Best Methods of Teaching Geography.” This is almost certainly the first extended discussion geographic education written by an American. The need for such an effort reflected the growing importance of geography in American schools. In his essay, Woodbridge argued that simple memorization of names was insufficient; each word had to be supported in the student’s mind by a clearly defined concept. The active use of maps was essential because those being taught had to see places in relation to each other. He felt that the small amount of knowledge that could be acquired in a classroom was not of much practical use to travelers, explorers, soldiers or missionaries; the real importance of geography was to lead the students outside his own limited experience and to learn to see themselves as part of a larger human family. The well-taught student of geography, he argued, should learn to wonder without condemning and to smile at some new experience without contempt.\n\nBy modern standards, Woodbridge’s books are small. Rudiments of geography, one of the smallest, was only six by three and a half inches (15 x 9 cm). The same illustrations were often used in several different books, as they were expensive to create. In content, Woodbridge’s geographies stress several common points. He saw physical geography as more important than human, simply because it was less likely to change. He introduced many European ideas about the planet to American audiences. In his discussions of the human condition in various regions, Woodbridge emphasised that the human condition in any part of the globe is primarily the product of access to education and opportunity. Climate, religion, and the nature of governments played some role, but he had no place for the racial slurs that were to disfigure so many American textbooks of the second half of the nineteenth century. He regarded the way in which societies treated and educated women as a useful measure of their degree of enlightenment. His geographies, like almost all of the schools they were intended for, were overtly Christian, but could never be mistaken for religious tracts.\n\nMaps were Woodbridge's passion. Often his text would begin with the student’s home or classroom and work outwards to the wider world. He was a member of the Geographical societies of Paris, Frankfurt and Berlin, scanning their pages for new information. Geoffery Martin has called Woodbridge, “one of the most reliable mapmakers of his time.” This is ironic because some modern readers are struck by the relatively few number of maps in some of his works; this is often because many were bound and sold together with a small atlas. These atlases, which usually command higher value in the antique market than the texts, have often been separated from their original companions.\n\nIn 1832 Woodbridge married Lucy Ann Reed, who had been an assistant teacher in Marblehead, Massachusetts. He actively campaigned for improvement in the Common schools of Massachusetts. He became a leader in the “Society for the Relief and Improvement of the African Race.” Throughout the 1830s and early 1840s he continued to expand, update, and revise his textbooks. In particular, over time, there is a noticeable improvement in the number and quality of maps and illustrations. In addition to constant sickness, Woodbridge spent most of his life in near poverty. Income from one book was often used to improve the next and he was unable to resist an appeal from anyone in need. In search of improved health and for new information for his geographies, Woodbridge returned to Europe in 1836. His young wife eventually joined him there, but died in Frankfurt in 1840, leaving Woodbridge with the care of their two small children. He traveled to Berlin for the winter of 1841-1842 and then returned to Boston. His health continued to deteriorate, and hoping that a more tropical climate would relieve his symptoms, he spent the last three winters of his life in St. Croix, in what was then Danish Territory, but is now part of the United States Virgin Islands. An illustration the 1847 edition of his Modern School Geography shows Woodbridge working in his study there with a map on the wall and a shelf of books (p. ix). William Channing Woodbridge died in Boston in 1845 and is buried in Marblehead, Massachusetts.\n\n\"A System of Universal Geography: On the Principles of Comparison and Classification\", 1824 (with Emma Willard)\n\n\"Rudiments of Geography\",1822\n\n\"Ancient Geography, as Connected with Chronology, and Preparatory to a Study of Ancient History\", 1823 (with Emma Willard)\n\n\"Modern School Geography\", 1845\n\n"}
